NYI 




IES 



3 3433 07897533 5 





. 





A TABLE FOR TWO 



A TABLE FOR TWO 



Good Things to Eat 



BY 



l_ L/ ^ "Y T s DC 



ELDENE DAVIS 

r- ' v i A \ 







CHICAGO 

FORBES & COMPANY 
1913 



TIE NEW YORK 
PUBLIC LIBRARY 

634819 

ASTOR. LENOX AND 
TILD N FOUNDATIONS. 
R 1913 



COPYRIGHT, 1913, BY 
FORBES & COMPANY 




, 

c ,,c t tcc't 
c' cc e c.' e 

c < e c c t' c 



' t' t c <. c c<: 
' I c r ' 
<," l C CC 



' c ' c c ' < e 
ct t c i c c 
' c cc 01 c c 



CONTENTS 



Page 

Oysters 9 

Fish 15 

Soups 21 

Meat 31 

Sauces for Meat 43 

Poultry and Game 45 

Dressing for Poultry 52 

Side Dishes with Meats 54 

Eggs and Omelets 57 

Salads 58 

Salad Dressing .^. . . 69 

Puddings 4B^ft ' ^ 5 

Pudding Sauce I V 87 

Cakes M f- 90 

Cake Filling pP* IO1 

Pie 106 

Miscellaneous Desserts ... 115 

Ice Cream and Frozen Dainties 126 

Cold Drinks 135 

Hot Drinks I3 8 

Breads, Muffins and Hot Cakes . 141 

Sandwiches 160 

Vegetables 164 

Miscellaneous Recipes 173 

Pickles 177 

Preserves l &3 

Candy 192 

Home-made Fireless Cooker 204 

Weights and Measures 205 

Index 2 7 



A TABLE FOR TWO 



OYSTERS 

Oysters With Sauce 

Take two teacupfuls of small oysters ; heat them in 
their own liquid until they are plump and the edges 
curl. Then drain and pour over them a sauce made by 
rubbing together a rounding teaspoonful of butter, and 
a tablespoonful of flour in a saucepan, stirring in half 
a cupful of thick cream ; salt and pepper to taste, and 
serve with celery hearts. 



Broiled Oysters 

Take a dozen large oysters and wipe them dry. 
Butter a hot toaster or griddle lay on the oysters, 
with a seasoning of salt and pepper ; brown on both 
sides. Have two heated plates ; arrange half a dozen 
on each, butter them and serve with any preferred 
relish. 



Batter Oysters 

Beat an egg and add half a cupful of oyster liquid 
and a teaspoonful each of lemon juice, tomato catsup 
and olive oil, and a little salt and pepper; beat in grad- 
ually flour enough to make a batter as thick as for 
pancakes. Dry half a dozen large oysters, dip them in 
the batter and fry on both sides in hot drippings. 
Serve on two warm plates with parsley and horse 
radish. 



OYSTERS 



Oyster Club Toast 

Toast six slices of bread that is two days' old. Heat 
two plates ; take four large oysters, dip them in beaten 
egg, roll them in cracker crumbs, and season with salt 
and pepper. Fry them and place each on a slice of hot 
buttered toast. Sprinkle over it a teaspoonful of 
minced celery and minced pickled onion with a table- 
spoonful of cream. Place two of these together and 
put the remaining slices of well-buttered toast on top 
of each sandwich and sprinkle them with minced 
parsley and dots of jelly. 



Oyster Balls 

Heat in their own liquor half a pint or more of 
oysters. When the edges curl, drain them and, if large, 
chop them, and stir with two cupfuls of mashed 
potatoes and half a teacupful of cream. Add a table- 
spoonful of minced sweet pickles and a teaspoonful of 
tomato catsup. Salt and pepper. Make into balls and 
fry them in hot drippings. 



Oyster Pies 

Line two small buttered pudding dishes with pastry ; 
brush over with the white of an egg. Now put in a 
rather close layer of small oysters seasoned with salt, 
pepper and a teaspoonful of butter dotted over. 
Sprinkle with spice of any preferred kind, a little 
chopped parsley, a spoonful of oyster liquor and the 
remaining portion of the egg. Add a top crust, prick 
holes in the center of it and bake until the crust is 
done. Serve at once. 

10 



OYSTERS 



Oyster Patties 

Make the desired number of pastry shells in tart or 
muffin pans. Take as many large oysters as the num- 
ber of patties desired; stew them in their liquor, add- 
ing any preferred spice. When the edges curl, remove 
them from the liquid, and when cool put one large 
oyster (or several small ones) in each pastry shell and 
cover with the slices of the yolk of hard boiled eggs, 
and a bit of horse radish or mustard ; salt and pepper. 
Moisten with a spoonful of oyster liquor and cover 
slightly with fine bread crumbs dotted with butter. 
Heat in the oven until the top is browned, and serve. 



Raw Oysters 

Take about twelve oysters, serve them in clean half- 
shells on cracked ice. Salt and pepper, and garnish 
with lemon and horse radish. 



Scalloped Oysters 

Butter a pudding dish that may be used to serve. 
Clean the oysters free from bits of shell. Mix cracker 
and bread crumbs (about two cupfuls). Put a layer of 
oysters in the bottom of the pudding dish then a 
layer of crumbs ; dot this over with bits of butter and 
a little salt and pepper celery salt may be used also. 
Add another layer of oysters, then a top of seasoned 
crumbs. Mix about half a cupful of oyster liquor with 
two spoonfuls of cream and pour over all (the cream 
may be omitted). Bake for about twenty-five minutes, 
or until nicely browned. 

Instead of the large dish, the ingredients may be 
baked in individual dishes or shells. 

II 



OYSTERS 



French Oysters 

Take six large oysters and wipe them dry (an equal 
quantity of small ones may be used). Put a rounding 
teaspoonful of butter into a saucepan, add a table- 
spoonful of flour, a teaspoonful of minced parsley and 
two tablespoonfuls of oyster liquor. Cook to a paste 
and stir in the oysters ; salt and pepper to taste, and 
stir well. In a few moments turn the mixture over hot 
buttered toast. 



Fried Oysters 

Take a dozen large oysters and wipe them dry ; but- 
ter them well by rubbing partly melted butter over 
them, then salt and pepper them and roll in flour (or 
crumbs). Have a very hot skillet with plenty of drip- 
pings or fat; when sizzling hot lay in the oysters and 
fry a delicate brown turning with a thin-bladed 
knife or pancake turner. Serve on two small hot 
plates ; garnish with lemon slices and parsley or 
slices of hard boiled eggs and olives or pickled beets. 



Oyster Jelly 

Take a cupful of oysters and stew them in their 
liquor until the edges curl, then remove from the fire. 
Take half a package of gelatine and soak it in cooked 
oyster liquor, and add water to make two cupfuls. 
Add the juice of half a lemon and quarter of a tea- 
spoonful of salt. Stir well with a tablespoonful of 
salad dressing, or catsup, the oysters, and a spoonful 
of minced sweet pickles. Sprinkle with grated nutmeg; 
mix all well and turn into molds. Serve with sliced 
oranges and any preferred sauce. 

12 



OYSTERS 



Creamed Oysters 

Take two cupfuls, or less, of oysters and let them 
come to the boiling point in the oyster liquor; skim 
and drain. 

Take a small cupful of cream and a teaspoon even 
full of minced onion (or onion juice). Let the cream 
come to the boiling point and season with a dash of 
pepper and salt ; thicken this with a rounding tea- 
spoonful of flour that has been made into a paste with 
a little cold water. Turn the cream over the oysters 
and serve. 

(A slice of onion may be used and then removed 
after heating the cream.) 



Oyster Cocktails 

Chill small oysters by laying them on ice ; have the 
small glasses cold and put from three to six oysters 
in each and pour over them a sauce made of a tea- 
spoonful of lemon juice, half a teaspoonful of prepared 
horse radish, two teaspoonfuls of tomato catsup, salt 
and pepper, and a sprinkling of grated nutmeg or 
ground cinnamon. 

Mix these thoroughly together and moisten with 
half a cupful of the oyster liquor that has been thick- 
ened with a little cream. Have all cold ; place an olive 
or cherry on the top of each glass. 

Cocktails may be served in chilled tomatoes after 
the centers have been scooped out. 



Oyster Fricassee 

Take a saucepan and melt a rounding teaspoonful of 
butter; add a rounding teaspoonful of chopped parsley, 

13 



OYSTERS 



a dash of red pepper and salt. When brown pour in 
two cupfuls of drained oysters. 

Cream together a rounding 'tablespoonful of flour 
and a rounding teaspoonful of butter; moisten with 
milk or oyster liquor, and when the oysters begin to 
curl at the edges stir in the flour paste and the well- 
beaten yolk of one egg. 

Serve on a hot dish and garnish with little squares 
of toast, jelly and parsley. 



Deviled Oysters 

Take a skillet and melt a rounding teaspoonful of 
butter ; add an even teaspoonful of minced onion, a 
rounding teaspoonful of minced celery heart, and a 
rounding teaspoonful of minced green pepper. Cook 
together for six or eight minutes, adding a little butter 
if necessary. Then pour over this half a cupful of 
strained oyster liquor and two teaspoonfuls of tomato 
catsup. Cook slowly for five minutes ; season with 
salt and pepper, and add two cupfuls or less of drained 
small or chopped oysters. Simmer until the oysters 
curl, and serve in tomato or orange shells. 



FISH 

Salmon Pie 

Beat up with mashed potatoes half a cupful of milk 
or cream, a small lump of butter, salt and pepper to 
taste. Line a pie pan with this and put the salmon 
in a layer over the potatoes. Pour over it the liquid 
from the salmon or dot it with butter ; add a sprink- 
ling of cracker crumbs and minced parsley. Then put 
on a top layer of mashed potatoes. Bake until thor- 
oughly heated. 



Salmon Croquettes 

Take a cupful of shredded salmon, a beaten egg, a 
slice of stale bread (crumbed) or crackers, a lump of 
butter the size of a hazelnut, salt and pepper to taste. 
Mix all together thoroughly and wet with milk. Make 
into cones and fry in hot butter. 



Scalloped Salmon 

Take a cupful or more of finely shredded salmon ; 
spread half of it over the bottom of a buttered sauce- 
pan, then put over this a layer of bread crumbs, or 
small crackers; sprinkle with salt and pepper, and a 
bit of horse radish, then the remainder of the salmon 
and a top cover of the seasoned crumbs. Dot this over 
with butter and pour over the whole one-half cupful 
of rich milk. 

Bake for twenty-five minutes. 



Clams 

Wash a dozen or more clams and put them in a pan ; 
place over a fire and when they open, pour the juice 

15 



FISH 

into a skillet. Add the clams and sprinkle each with 
salt and pepper, and a dot of butter. Cook until tender. 



Breaded Mackerel 

Soak a mackerel over night in milk or water. Then 
dry it thoroughly and rub melted butter all over it. 
Have a dish of finely grated cracker crumbs, and 
another dish containing a beaten egg. Dip the mack- 
erel in the egg and roll it in the cracker crumbs (flour 
may be used instead of crumbs). Fry in hot drippings, 
garnish with parsley and horse radish or slices of 
hard boiled eggs and mustard. 



Left-Over Fish 

Free the fish from bones, skin and shred it. Add 
several chopped olives, a little mustard and salt and 
pepper to taste. Chop all together and mix thoroughly, 
adding the yolk of an egg. Put it in a sauce pan with 
a small lump of butter and a spoonful of cream; When 
heated serve on toast. 



Frogs' Legs No. i 

Take six pairs of frogs' legs and wash them thor- 
oughly. Dip them in flour and fry in a bit of butter 
turning until done. 



Frogs' Legs No. 2 

Wash them and put them in a sauce pan with a little 
hot water and simmer until tender. Salt and pepper 
them and put them on a hot dish. 

Put a tablespoonful of flour in the saucepan, stir to 
a paste and add half a cupful or more of cream and a 

16 



FISH 

dash of salt and pepper. Do not let the cream boil. 
"When hot pour it over the frogs' legs and garnish with 
parsley or any preferred way. 



Broiled Lobster 

Split the lobster lengthwise down the back and take 
out the large intestine. Lay the flesh side down on a 
buttered broiler and cook slowly on each side. Trans- 
fer to a hot dish and spread the lobster with butter- 
add salt and pepper. Serve with lemon slices and horse 
radish. 



Deviled Lobster 

Chop enough cold boiled lobster to fill a large cup. 
Add a rounding teaspoonful of butter and a teaspoon- 
ful, or more, of lemon juice. Mix all together thor- 
oughly. Take a frying pan and melt a rounding table- 
spoonful of butter; add half a cupful of hot water, and 
when it boils up put in the lobster. Sprinkle over all 
a few drops of Tabasco sauce, half a teaspoonful (or 
less) of prepared mustard, half a teaspoonful of 
Worcestershire sauce, and salt and pepper to taste. 
Stir well and when it boils up, turn it into shells or 
little pans, put a tiny dot of butter on each and cover 
the top with bread crumbs. 

Bake until brown, then serve. 



Shredded Lobster 

Take a frying pan and melt a rounding teaspoonful 
of butter, or drippings. Rub in with a spoon a round- 
ing tablespoonful of flour and let it brown. Pour in 
half a teacupful or more of rich milk and stir it well ; 
then put in the shredded lobster. Stir and remove all 

17 



FISH 

from the pan and shape into cakes. Dip into, or spread, 
each cake with beaten egg, cover it with cracker 
crumbs and fry to a nice brown. 

Serve with lemon, horse radish or tartar sauce. 



Fish Balls 

Pare and boil four or five potatoes, mash them, add 
a half cupful of cream, a beaten egg and salt and pep- 
per to taste. Beat all together until light. 

Take a mackerel that has been soaked over-night, 
remove the bone and shred the fish. Mix it thoroughly 
with the potatoes, and make into small balls. Put in 
a greased pan and bake in a hot oven. 

(The balls may be fried.) 



Codfish Balls 

Take a cupful of boiled and shredded codfish, a tea- 
spoonful of lemon juice, a quarter of an even teaspoon- 
ful of black pepper, a heaping tablespoonful of chopped 
parsley and a well-beaten egg. Mix thoroughly with 
a rounding teaspoonful of butter that has been melted 
and a cupful or more of mashed potatoes. Make into 
balls, roll in cracker crumbs and fry in hot drippings. 

Bechamel sauce may be served or slices of red beets. 



Codfish Shells 

Take left over codfish and mix it with a little cream 
and fill it in pastry tart shells. Grate a little nutmeg 
over the top of each shell, add a dash of salt, and 
sprinkle over each a little minced parsley. Bake until 
hot and serve with acid jelly or lemon slices. 

18 



FISH 

Codfish and Macaroni (Left Over) 

Take left over macaroni and cheese and line two 
muffin or other small pans, and sprinkle over same a 
thin layer of cracker crumbs. Then fill the center with 
left over codfish, to which a bit of cream may be added 
if too dry. Then sprinkle a few cracker crumbs on 
the codfish and make the top of macaroni. Now dot 
on a bit of butter, a very thin slice of cheese, add a 
dash of pepper, and bake about fifteen minutes. 

Garnish in any preferred way. 



Sardines on Toast 

Take bread that has been baked twenty-four hours 
or more, cut in even slices and toast until a delicate 
brown (the crust may be left on, or it may be removed 
and the toast cut in fancy shapes). Spread each slice 
with a very little butter and a layer of sardines, then 
pour over them the following mixture : 

One teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce, one tea- 
spoonful of lemon juice, half a teaspoonful. or less, of 
prepared mustard. Heat in the oven and serve with 
horse radish, lemon or sliced red beets. 



Planked Fish 

Split the cleaned fish down the back and wipe thor- 
oughly all over with a damp cloth. Take a clean oak 
or hickory plank, put it in the oven and heat it 
thoroughly. 

Rub the fish well with butter and sprinkle it with 
pepper and salt. Lay it open side up on the plank and 
drive a long tack into each of the four corners. Put 
the plank on the upper grating of the oven and cook 

19 



FISH 

the fish, rubbing it often with butter. When done 
draw out the tacks and lay the plank on a large dish ; 
garnish the fish with parsley and slices of lemon and 
serve. 



Pickled Herring 

Soak the herring over night in cold water, clean and 
remove the skin and bone. Take a deep dish and put 
in a layer of herring cut in small pieces, then a layer 
of sliced onions, a few whole black peppers, a rounding 
teaspoonful or more of sugar and bay leaves. Cover 
with vinegar and let it stand three hours, then serve. 



Fried Trout 

Have the fish perfectly clean, and do not remove 
the heads. 

Beat an egg and rub the fish thoroughly with it. 
Then roll them in crumbs and fry them in very hot 
fat until well browned. 

Flour may be used instead of crumbs. Garnish the 
dish with parsley and serve with melted butter. 



20 



SOUPS 

Soup stock is composed of fish, game, beef, poultry, 
etc., combined or not. Or soups may be made with 
water from cooked vegetables, adding milk or stock. A 
teaspoonful of salt is about the right quantity for a 
quart of water. 

In preparing soup, slow cooking is best for extracting 
the flavor, with the salt added when nearly done. 

Meat for soup should be put on in cold water and 
simmer slowly. 



Simple Oyster Soup 

Take the liquor from a half pint of oysters, put them 
in a scant pint of milk (or water) and heat. Put in a 
piece of butter the size of a hickory nut; salt and 
pepper to taste. Cook a few minutes when the oys- 
ters begin to curl at the edges, they are ready to serve. 

If the oysters are cooked with milk a spoonful of 
cream might be added before serving. 



Rich Oyster Soup 

Hash together bits of meat, onions, parsley and cel- 
ery (add enough butter or drippings made into a paste 
with flour as for gravy). Put all into a soup kettle 
with a pint of beef soup or stock, stir well and boil ten 
minutes ; season with salt and pepper to taste. Strain, 
add a dozen or more oysters with their liquor to the 
soup, return to the fire and when their edges curl 
remove and serve with toast. 

21 



SOUPS 

Tomato Soup (Thick) 

Take two cupfuls or less of sliced or canned toma- 
toes, a slice of onion finely chopped, a clove and five 
gills of water. Boil slowly for fifteen minutes ; remove 
from the fire and put through a sieve. 

Make a thickening paste by cooking together a 
rounding teaspoonful of butter, a tablespoonful of flour 
and a little water as for gravy. Stir this in the soup 
with a quarter of a teaspoonful of salt. Reheat and 
serve. 

(Equal parts of suet and bacon drippings may be 
used instead of butter.) 



"Ready Made" Tomato Soup 

Take a pint of liquor from boiled beef, skim off the 
grease ; stir in one cupful of canned or stewed toma- 
toes, a small cupful of cooked rice a dash of pepper, 
and salt to taste. Boil a few minutes, put through a 
sieve and serve. 



Tomato Bouillon 

Take three cupfuls of canned or fresh sliced toma- 
toes, a slice of onion, and one and one-half pints of 
skimmed beef stock. Simmer slowly for forty or fifty 
minutes. Rub through a sieve, add salt, pepper and 
a teaspoonful of sugar. Bring it to a boil and serve. 



Onion Tomato Soup 

Skin and slice from four to six ripe tomatoes. Take 
a large onion, chop it fine and fry in butter until done. 
Put the tomatoes and onion in a soup kettle with a 
couple of celery stems chopped fine ; add a little more 

22 



SOUPS 

than a pint of water, one-third of an even teaspoonful 
of salt and a dash of pepper. Stew slowly for twenty 
or twenty-five minutes. Strain and serve any pre- 
ferred way. 



Easy Cream Tomato Soup 

Make a paste of a rounding tablespoonful of corn- 
starch, a rounding teaspoonful of butter and a round- 
ing teaspoonful of brown sugar rubbed well together. 
Put this with a cupful of stewed or canned tomatoes 
in a soup kettle (with a little water if necessary), 
and stew until very hot. Scald but not boil a pint 
(or more) of milk put in a pinch of saleratus, pour 
over the stew and stir thoroughly. Strain and serve. 
The soup may be served with toast or any preferred 
way without straining. 



Cream Tomato Soup No. i 

Take a large cupful of canned tomatoes (add a small 
bit of onion or not as desired). Mix together a heap- 
ing teaspoonful of flour and a heaping teaspoonful of 
sugar, stir it in with the tomatoes. Put this mixture 
in a soup kettle with half a pint of milk and half a 
cupful of water. As soon as it boils stir well and 
remove it from the fire. Add a dash of salt and pepper, 
a piece of butter the size of a hickory nut, and serve. 



Cream Tomato Soup No. 2 

Add a half pint of hot water to a large cupful of 
stewed tomatoes ; season with a dash of salt and pep- 
per, a bit of onion and a chopped celery stalk. Put 

23 



SOUPS 

over the fire and boil until the celery is soft, then strain 
it. Heat a rounding teaspoonful of butter in a small 
dish ; stir in a rounding tablespoonful of flour rub- 
bing it smooth with a little water (like gravy). Pour 
this thickening into the strained soup ; return it to the 
fire and stir until very hot, then remove it from the 
fire. 

Put a pint of milk into a deep kettle and bring it 
to the boiling point. Remove from fire, add a pinch of 
saleratus, and stir into this the contents of the other 
kettle. Serve at once. 



Bacon Soup 

One slice of bacon, one onion, two celery stems, a 
cold boiled potato. Mince all together and sprinkle 
with a rounding tablespoonful of flour. Add a cupful 
of stewed tomatoes, salt and pepper. Pour over all 
one and one-fourth pints of water and boil for twenty- 
five minutes. Strain or serve any preferred way for 
luncheon. 



Simple Potato Soup 

One pint of potato water, two boiled potatoes 
mashed or sliced, a slice of onion (grated or chopped), 
a piece of butter the size of a walnut. Bring to a boil, 
and add a large spoonful of thick cream or a small 
cupful of milk. Stir and in a few moments strain and 
serve. 

(A spoonful of catsup may be used.) 



Oxtail Soup 

Take a spoonful of butter (or bacon and suet drip- 
pings), put it in a skillet with the oxtail and a sliced 

24 



SOUPS 

onion, and fry for a few minutes. Turn it into a soup 
kettle and add two or three stems of celery cut in short 
lengths, a sliced potato, a small carrot, sliced; an even 
teaspoonful of salt and a dash of pepper. Cover with 
four pints of water, and boil slowly until the meat is 
done. Strain about half a pint of the soup into another 
dish, and add an equal amount of milk or water. Put 
it over the fire and as soon as it boils up remove and 
serve. 

Put the remainder of the soup into a glass fruit jar 
for another time. When cold skim off the grease and 
put it with your dish of drippings. 



Celery Soup 

Put a cupful of finely chopped celery in a stewpan 
with one-half cup of water. When soft, put it in a 
double boiler with a pint of milk and bring to boiling 
point. Thicken with a rounding teaspoonful of butter 
and a tablespoonful of flour (rubbed together and 
beaten smooth in a little milk or \vater). Stir well 
into the soup with three tablespoonfuls of thick cream. 
Strain and serve. 



Simple Broth 

Chop together equal portions of beef, veal and lamb 
about two cupfuls of this and a quart of cold water. 
Bring to a boil and skim ; then turn down the fire and 
simmer for three or four hours. Strain, cool and 
remove the grease from the top. Reheat broth to 
serve. 

(This may be made in a fireless cooker after boiling 
for fifteen minutes.) 

25 



SOUPS 

Salsify Soup (Mock Oyster) 

Wash and chop a bunch of salsify ; put it in a pan, 
cover with boiling water and cook slowly until tender; 
then put it through a sieve. Add to this a scant pint 
of milk, a quarter of a teaspoonful of salt, a bit of mace 
and a tiny bit of red pepper. 

Put this mixture in a soup kettle and bring to a 
boil. While it is heating prepare a thickening paste 
by cooking together a rounding tablespoonful of flour, 
a rounding teaspoonful of butter and a little water 
stir to keep it smooth. When the soup boils, stir this 
paste in and cook a few minutes. May be served with 
croutons if preferred. 



Corn Chowder 

Chop and fry an onion and put it in a kettle with 
half a can (or less) of corn, also chopped ; a boiled 
potato (sliced), half a cupful of oyster crackers, and 
a teaspoonful of tomato catsup. Add a full pint of 
water and boil until the ingredients are soft. Salt and 
pepper to taste, then remove from the fire and stir in 
a small cupful of cream. 



Cream Corn Soup 

Take a small cupful of canned corn, a slice of onion 
and a cupful of boiling water; cook ten minutes and 
rub through a sieve. Blend together a heaping tea- 
spoonful of butter and a rounding tablespoonful of 
flour and add to the corn mixture. Salt and pepper to 
taste. Put all in a soup kettle with a pint of milk, stir 
thoroughly and let it get very hot, but not boil. Serve. 

26 



S O U P S 

Fish Bisque 

Take a small cupful of finely minced salmon, a slice 
of lemon, add a half pint of water and bring it to the 
boiling point. Make a paste as for gravy by cooking 
together a rounding teaspoonful of butter and a round- 
ing tablespoonful of flour wet with a little milk. Stir 
this in the salmon and add half a pint of milk and a few 
crushed crackers. Stir until hot (do not boil), remove 
from the fire salt and pepper to taste. 



Onion Soup 

Slice one large onion and fry brown in butter ; then 
put in a cupful of hot water, cover and simmer until 
the onion is soft (about twenty minutes) ; then stir in 
a paste made by cooking together a rounding table- 
spoonful of flour and a rounding teaspoonful of butter. 
Add the well beaten yolk of one egg, and a pint of 
milk. Put all in a soup kettle and stir well ; cook 
slowly five or ten minutes, salt and pepper to taste; 
remove it from the fire, strain and add four table- 
spoonfuls of cream. Serve. 



Sweet Potato Soup 

Pare two sweet potatoes and boil three or four min- 
utes ; throw away the water and cover the potatoes 
with a pint of hot water; add a stem of celery 
(chopped), a slice of onion (chopped) and a bit of 
parsley or any preferred greens. Salt and pepper to 
taste. Cook until the potatoes are done, then put 
through a sieve. Thicken with a paste made of flour 
and butter (a tablespoonful of flour and a teaspoonful 
of butter). Put all together in a double boiler with 

27 



SOUPS 

two or three gills of milk, and when hot it is ready to 
serve. 

A tablespoonful of cream may be added just before 
serving if desired. 



Clam Chowder 

Chop a slice of salt pork and fry. Put it in a soup 
kettle with a sliced potato, a sliced onion, a large 
tomato, the liquid from the clams and a full pint of 
water. Boil together for about twenty-five minutes, 
salt and pepper to taste add four or five chopped 
clams and stew for fifteen or twenty minutes. 



Clam Soup 

Chop together, a slice of salt pork, a small onion, 
and a raw potato. Put with a little water and cook 
until done. Add more water if necessary, and as many 
canned clams as desired. Let it boil, season with salt, 
pepper, and a lump of butter. Thicken with a spoonful 
of flour that has been stirred into a little milk until 
smooth. 

Add a cupful or more of milk to make the desired 
quantity. 



Fish Chowder 

Fry two slices of pork until crisp. Then put over 
it a layer of fish (cut in small pieces), add thin slices 
of onion, next a layer of very thinly sliced potatoes, 
with salt and pepper, a top layer of biscuit crusts. 
Add water until it is in sight, then stew until the 
potatoes and onions are soft. Pour over all a cupful 
of milk or cream a few minutes before serving. 

28 



SOUPS 

Bean Soup 

Soak over night a cupful of common white beans, 
pour off the water and put the beans in a soup kettle 
with a quart or more of water and a quarter of a pound 
of salt pork. Boil slowly until tender and the liquid is 
reduced one-half; add salt and pepper to taste. 

Take a rounding 1 tablespoonful of flour and a round- 
ing teaspoonful of butter, rub to a paste and use it for 
thickening, stirring it in the soup until it boils up 
smoothly, then serve. 

(A bit of onion or celery may be cooked with the 
soup if desired.) 



Chicken Hash Soup 

Take a five-cent veal soup bone with a scant quart 
of water; the neck, gizzard and any odd pieces of 
chicken. Cook until the veal is tender. Hash together 
bits of cooked rice, a tomato (fresh or canned) and a 
stem of celery. Put this in the soup and boil until the 
celery is soft. Remove from the fire and press through 
a coarse sieve. Season with salt and pepper to taste, 
and add an even teaspoonful of horse radish. 



Lettuce Hash Soup 

Take a small head of lettuce, wash well and chop 
in small pieces. A cupful of cooked beef, pork, veal or 
chicken left over one or all ; a sliced boiled potato, a 
chopped piece of onion. Mix all these thoroughly and 
pour over them a pint of water bring to the boiling 
point. Strain and return to the fire and add a thicken- 
ing paste of a tablespoonful of flour and a teaspoonful 
of butter well rubbed together with a little water as 
for gravy. Let it boil. Then pour in a half pint of 

29 



SOUPS 

rich milk heat thoroughly, but do not let it boil, 
then serve. 

This may be garnished with finely chopped greens 
sprinkled lightly on the soup. 



Beef Soup With Vegetables and Dumplings 

Get a round ten-cent soup bone cut and cracked by 
the butcher; wash it and put it in a soup kettle with 
five pints of water, and several small beets. Bring to 
a boil and after about twenty minutes add two Span- 
ish onions, two large potatoes, an even teaspoonful of 
salt, pepper to taste, and a bit of parsley. Cover 
tightly and cook slowly until the potatoes are done. 
Do not prick the beets, as they will color the soup 
deeply. Pour off the liquor into another vessel, return 
to the fire, bring to a boil and drop in the dumplings. 
Cook for ten minutes. 



Dumplings 

A large cupful of flour, a heaping teaspoonful of 
baking powder. Sift together in a large bowl with a 
quarter of a spoonful of salt and a lump of butter the 
size of a hickory nut. Wet this with a little water or 
milk, stirring lightly; have it almost stiff enough to 
roll. Shape with a spoon into small dumplings (do 
not handle). 



MEAT 

Baked Beefsteak With Dressing 

One pound or more of round steak, 
One small loaf of stale bread, 
One onion, 

One-half an even teaspoonful of salt, 
One even teaspoonful or less of grated nutmeg, 
One-third of a teaspoonful of black pepper, 
One rounding teaspoonful of brown sugar, 
One heaping tablespoonful of dried sage. 
Slice the bread and break it in small pieces ; slice the 
onion and put it in a stew pan with a cupful of water ; 
cook until the onion begins to get soft, then pour it 
over the bread crumbs. Put the sage in a little water 
and steep a few minutes ; pour the liquid over the 
bread and add all the other ingredients and mix well. 
Put the steak into a very hot skillet with a bit of 
suet, sear both sides. Remove it from the skillet and 
salt it. Spread over it a thick layer of dressing, and 
roll up fasten it with a skewer. Make cakes of the 
remaining dressing. Put all in a baking pan, add half 
a cupful of \vater. Cover it and bake twenty minutes. 



Baked Steak 

Take a pound or more of any preferred steak cut 
two inches thick. Sear it on all sides in a hot skillet, 
salt and pepper it on both sides. Put bits of suet over 
the bottom of a baking pan, lay in the steak cover the 

31 



M EAT 

meat with bits of suet and thin slices of onion and 
lemon. 

Bake twenty minutes for rare steak or about forty 
in a moderate oven. Serve with horse radish. 



Roast Beef With Potatoes (Without using oven) 

Take two pounds of beef, cut thick (almost square). 
Sear all sides in a hot skillet ; then dredge it with flour 
and season with salt and a dash of pepper. 

Take a deep frying pan or small baking dish. Put 
thin slices of suet over the bottom ; put the beef in and 
place around it as many peeled potatoes as desired. 
Cover and let fry a little, then pour in a large cupful of 
hot water and cover closely. Cook slowly and when 
nearly done, remove the cover and let it brown on all 
sides. 

Pork may be cooked the same way. 



Pot Roast 

Take about two pounds of beef rib, and sear it in a 
hot frying pan. Put a pint of boiling water in the pot; 
with the meat, an onion, a heaping teaspoonful of 
brown sugar, a small bunch of parsley and a clove or 
dash of any preferred spice, salt and pepper to taste. 
(Also a tablespoonful of grape juice may be used if 
desired.) 

Cook slowly for two- hours or longer adding water 
if necessary. 



Simple Pot Roast of Beef 

Take two pounds of a cheap cut of beef very thick. 
Put drippings or suet in a kettle dredge the meat 

32 



M E A T 

with flour, put it in the pot and keep turning until 
well browned all over and about half done. Then sea- 
son with half an even teaspoonful of salt, a dash of 
pepper, a rounding teaspoonful of brown sugar, and a 
sprinkling of grated nutmeg. Put in a small cupful 
of hot water and let it simmer twenty minutes longer. 



Tender Pot Roast 

Put the beef into an iron pot with a little butter but 
no salt. Brown on both sides, then add two table- 
spoonfuls of vinegar and boil a few minutes before 
pouring in a little hot water. Add a little onion juice, 
a pinch of baking soda, salt and pepper. Cook until 
it is tender enough to fall apart, then put the meat on 
a hot platter, thicken the gravy with flour, pour it 
over the meat and garnish with parsley. 

(This recipe is to be used for cheap tough cuts of 
beef.) 

Beefsteak With Bacon 

Take about a pound (or less) of round steak two 
inches thick. Put it in a pot with a teaspoonful of 
butter, a small sliced onion, and fry until all sides are 
browned, then place on it thin slices of bacon. Sprinkle 
with flour and add a bit of parsley. Pour over all 
a cupful of hot water, cover and cook until the meat 
is done. Salt and pepper to taste. 



Beef Pot Roast 

Take two pounds of very thick round steak. Put 
two slices of salt pork in a pan and fry with a chopped 
onion. Put this in the pot, place the beef on it. Spread 
over it a sliced turnip, a small sliced carrot, and a 

33 



MEAT 

small bunch of greens. Half cover this with hot water. 
Cook slowly in a well covered pot for an hour ; then 
turn and add salt and pepper to the meat and cook 
very slowly half an hour longer. 

Thicken the liquor with flour, and serve with cat- 
sup, horse radish or any preferred sauce. 



Swiss Pot Roast 

Take a round steak about two inches thick, cover 
with flour and pound it into the steak on both sides, 
using the edge of a heavy plate for that purpose. Put 
the meat into an iron pot, or skillet, with some drip- 
pings and brown it on both sides. Then add an onion 
and a whole ripe tomato or an equal quantity of 
canned tomatoes. Pour in water enough to cover it. 
Cook for two hours tightly covered, adding water if 
necessary. Just before the meat is done salt and 
pepper to taste. 



Broiled Steak 

Heat the platter to be used in serving. 

Take a slice of steak about an inch thick and put it 
on a well-buttered broiler. Turn over very often until 
the desired amount of cooking is completed. Place 
on the hot platter and butter it on both sides. Season 
with salt and pepper to taste. 

Parsley, horse radish, sliced tomatoes, sliced onion, 
etc., may be used to garnish the steak. 



Meat Pie 

Boil and mash half a dozen potatoes, salt and pepper 
to taste. Put in a lump of butter the size of a walnut, 
and beat until light a beaten egg may be used also if 

34 



M E A T 

preferred. Take a deep pie dish, butter it and put in 
a layer of the potatoes. Take half a pound of cooked 
beef or pork, cut it in small pieces and put a layer 
over the potatoes. Pour over this a small cupful of 
stock, then spread the remainder of the potatoes over 
the top, and bake for about twenty-five or thirty 
minutes. 

Garnish the dish with horse radish and parsley, or 
tomatoes may be used. 



Beef Loaf 

Take three-quarters of a pound of chopped raw beef 
and moisten a cupful of bread crumbs, add salt, pepper 
and a rounding teaspoonful of chopped butter. Mix 
all thoroughly, stir in a well beaten egg, put the mix- 
ture in a greased baking pan and pour over it half 
a cupful of hot water. Bake thirty or forty minutes 
in a moderate oven. 



Dried Beef Creamed 

Take a teacupful of dried beef shavings, and fry in 
a teaspoonful of butter. Remove the beef and make 
a gravy by adding a rounding teaspoonful of flour- 
blending it then pour over it a small cupful of milk, 
salt and pepper to taste, and a bit of minced greens. 
Put in the beef and when hot serve. 



Sausage and Potato Balls 

Equal amounts of sausage meat and mashed pota- 
toes (finely sliced boiled potatoes will do). Mix thor- 
oughly and season with salt and pepper to taste (a bit 

35 



MEAT 

of dried sage may be used or not), and a beaten egg. 
When well mixed make into balls, or flat cakes cover 
with any kind of crumbs and fry. 



Stuffed Pork Chops 

Take four chops, cut from the rib ; stuff with the 
dressing described in the baked beef recipe. Fit the 
ribs in pairs, and tie together firmly. Salt lightly and 
bake in a hot oven for twenty minutes. Remove the 
cover and brown. 

The dressing may be seasoned in many ways. If 
sage is not desired, use thyme and mustard and a 
beaten egg, or celery, apples and spices to taste. 



Baked Pork Chops 

Take four pork chops from the ribs, season them 
with salt and pepper. Place in a greased baking pan; 
beat an egg well, spread it over all and bake in a 
moderate oven for half an hour or more. Serve with 
tomato sauce. 



Bacon 

Fry or boil four or six slices of bacon until rather 
crisp. Wash but do not peel a red tomato. Slice 
and broil in a meat broiler. Lay these slices on the 
bacon and serve with any preferred garnish. Slices 
of hard boiled egg heated on the broiler and seasoned 
with a bit of mustard are good to put with the bacon 
and tomatoes. 



Mock Pate de Foie Gras 

Take one or two pounds of calf's liver, wash thor- 
oughly and put in a stew pan with a finely chopped 
onion, a bay leaf, a blade of mace, one-third of a tea- 

36 



M EAT 

spoonful of black pepper, a scant teaspoonful of salt, 
three cloves, a lump of loaf sugar and three gills of 
stock. Cover tightly and cook slowly for two hours 
or longer. When done cut the liver in thin slices, put 
in a dish and pour over it the liquor. Set aside to 
cool. The next day pound it to a paste and slowly 
add half a cupful of melted butter. Rub through a 
coarse sieve and pack in a bean crock with melted 
butter on top. Cut in slices when wanted; it will 
keep several days in a cool place. 



Deviled Mutton 

Take four slices of mutton, a well chopped onion 
and a bit of mint. Put them in a baking tin and 
sprinkle all with Worcestershire sauce and the juice 
of half a lemon. Cover with a buttered paper and 
bake fifteen or twenty minutes. Green peas, beets, 
lettuce, asparagus, etc., are served with this dish. 



Meat Balls 

Have a pound of beef and a half or three-quarters 
of a pound of pork chopped or ground and mixed 
thoroughly. Stir in a cupful of bread or cracker 
crumbs and a beaten egg. Moisten with half a cupful 
of milk, add salt and pepper to taste ; make into small 
balls and fry about fifteen minutes. 



Combination Meat Balls 

Take one-half pound each of calf's liver, beef and 
pork chopped or ground together. Season with salt 
and pepper, a small onion, minced, and a bit of parsley 

37 



MEAT 

or celery or both. Mix all together thoroughly with 
an egg, a cupful of bread crumbs and a tablespoonful 
of flour. Make into small balls or cakes, and fry 
twenty minutes. 



Meat Blankets and Dressing 

Take four large oysters. Wrap each one first with 
a thin slice of veal (salted and peppered), then with 
a thin slice of bacon, tie securely. Put them in a bak- 
ing pan with a small cupful of boiling salted water 
and four balls of dressing. Bake. 

For the dressing: Take three cupfuls of fine bread 
crumbs and moisten with milk, one cupful of finely 
chopped celery, a teaspoonful of horseradish, salt and 
pepper to taste, two tablespoonfuls of melted butter 
and a beaten egg. Make into cakes. 

A bit of tart jelly may be served on top of each cake. 



Baked Ham 

Have a slice of ham cut two inches thick. Place in 
a skillet and cover it with cold water ; let it boil for 
ten minutes, then take it from the water, sprinkle with 
flour over the top, and bake in the oven for half an 
hour. 



Beef and Sausage Cakes 

Have the butcher grind together one pound of beef 
and a quarter of a pound (or more) of pork sausage. 
Then mix together two slices of stale bread (crumbed), 
a chopped celery stem, a pinch or more of dried sage, 
a slice of onion (minced) and a beaten egg. Mix all 
thoroughly with the sausage and make into small balls 
and fry in drippings. (The egg may be omitted.) 

38 



M 1- AT 

Escalloped Ham 

Two cupfuls of finely chopped boiled ham, one cup- 
ful of chopped hard boiled eggs, one teaspoonful of 
mustard, pepper to taste. Mix all together with a 
white sauce (of boiled milk and flour). Cover the top 
with bread crumbs and small pieces of butter, and 
bake one half hour. 



Hamburg and Rice 

Take a teacupful of cold boiled rice and two tea- 
cupfuls of minced steak, salt, pepper, and a stem of 
chopped celery. Mix all thoroughly with an egg. 
Take leaves from boiled cabbage and stuff in small 
rolls, tie and put in a baking pan with a small cupful 
of hot water and bake twenty minutes. 



Meat Leftovers 

Take a cupful of any kind of cooked meat or game 
well chopped, a cupful of mashed potatoes, half a cup- 
ful of bread crumbs, a stem of celery finely chopped, 
half a teacupful of stewed tomatoes, salt and pepper. 
Mix all thoroughly and put in muffin or small pans. 
Hollow out the center of each and place in it the half 
of a hard boiled egg. Bake until well heated. 

(These cakes may be heated in a covered skillet on 
top of the stove.) 

Re-Heated Ham 

Take two small slices of cold boiled ham and put in 
a skillet with a bit of butter. Rub over it a very little 
prepared mustard and a dash of pepper. Cover and 
heat slowly, then turn the ham and spread with cur- 
rant or any tart jelly. Serve. 

39 



MEAT 

Leftover Veal 

One or two cupfuls of veal or mutton and an equal 
amount of cooked macaroni. Chop all together, mix 
thoroughly, add a slice or two of chopped onion, a bit 
of celery and two tablespoonfuls of tomato catsup. 
Salt and pepper to taste. Bind all with a well beaten 
egg; make into cakes and fry (or steam for forty 
minutes in a double boiler). 



Rissoles 

Make a thorough mixture of two cupfuls of ground 
or finely chopped cooked meat, a slice of stale bread, 
crumbed; a slice of onion (chopped), a little grated 
nutmeg or any preferred spice, salt (one-third of a 
teaspoonful), and pepper. Stir all together with an 
egg. Make little balls and enclose them with thinly 
rolled pastry and bake in muffin pans until brown. 

The pastry may be omitted and the balls rolled in 
cracker crumbs and fried to a good brown. 

Instead of pastry, fry the balls; then cover them 
with a shell of mashed potatoes, and brown. 

Any hashed meat may be served in shells of mashed 
potatoes. 



Mock Terrapin 

Cut up in half inch squares a cupful or more of 
cooked veal. Make a gravy with a rounding table- 
spoonful of butter and a heaping tablespoonful of flour 
rubbed smooth in a frying pan ; when brown put in 
a small cupful of soup stock (or hot water). When 
the gravy boils up add the veal, juice from half a 
lemon, a bit of mint, half a cupful of stewed tomatoes, 

40 



MEAT 

salt and pepper to taste, and heat all thoroughly. 
Serve with sliced hard boiled egg, with a bit of currant 
jelly on each slice. 



Irish Stew 

Take two pounds of boiling beef, rub it all over 
with a spoonful of brown sugar. Put it in a hot skillet 
with butter, and sear all over until well browned. 
Then place it in a kettle with a pint of hot water and 
boil ten minutes. Add two small onions, two small 
(or sliced) carrots, two peppers, two large potatoes. 
Cover tightly and cook slowly until the vegetables 
are done. Add salt and pepper. Then serve. 



Chop Suey (Italian) 

Take a quarter of a package of spaghetti, cover with 
salt water and cook until nearly done. Fry in a pan 
two small slices of onion and a cupful of ground beef. 
When done pour over them a cupful of stewed toma- 
toes and the spaghetti; boil all together for five min- 
utes, and serve. 

(Pork and veal may be used instead of beef.) 



Baked Calf's Liver 

Thoroughly wash a pound of calf's liver and sprinkle 
it with salt, pepper, and a teaspoonful of flour. Put 
it in a well greased baking pan. Add a sliced carrot, 
two small tomatoes and two potatoes (a little spice 
of any preferred kind may be added). Make two balls 
of dressing and put them in the pan. Pour over all a 
half pint of hot water, cover tightly and bake slowly 
for one hour. 

41 



MEAT 

Calf's Heart 

This may be prepared the same as calf's liver. The 
heart may be cut open, stuffed with the dressing and 
tied in place. 



Crusted Fat Pork 

Take thin slices of fat pork, roll them in flour until 
thoroughly coated, and fry until crisp. 



Veal Cutlets 

Take the desired number of cutlets and rub them 
well with the yolk of an egg. Dip them in crumbs 
that have been seasoned with grated nutmeg, minced 
herbs, pepper and salt. Fry them in hot fat, and serve 
with butter or gravy made by adding a little flour to 
the hot fat, browning it, and adding sufficient water. 



42 



SAUCES FOR MEAT 

Horse Radish Sauce 

To two tablespoonfuls of grated horse radish add 
a teaspoonful of vinegar, a rounding teaspoonful or 
more of sugar, a dash of pepper and a pinch of salt, 
also a pinch of saleratus. Just before serving stir in 
three heaping tablespoonfuls of whipped cream. 



Tomato Sauce 

Brown two heaping teaspoonfuls of butter in a 
saucepan. Add gradually three or four tablespoonfuls 
of flour. Pour in a cupful of stewed tomatoes that 
have been put through a sieve; add a slice of onion 
minced, two or three cloves, a teaspoonful of minced 
parsley, half an even teaspoonful of salt and a dash of 
pepper. Stew slowly for about twenty minutes. 



Spanish Tomato Sauce 

Take a heaping tablespoonful of raw minced ham, 
a rounding tablespoonful each of minced celery, onion 
and green pepper. Melt a heaping tablespoonful of 
butter in a saucepan and stir in gradually two round- 
ing tablespoonfuls of flour; when smooth add half a 
cupful of soup stock and a cupful of stewed tomatoes 
with the ham mixture. Salt and pepper to taste. 



White Sauce 

Melt in a saucepan a rounding tablespoonful of but- 
ter and stir in gradually two or three spoonfuls of 
flour. "When smooth add gradually a cupful of milk, 
salt and pepper. Spice may be used if desired. 

43 



SAUCES FOR MEAT 



Bechamel Sauce 

Cook together a cupful of chicken broth, a bit of 
onion, a sprig of parsley, a bit of thyme and bay leaf, 
two peppercorns, a pinch of salt, and a little grated 
nutmeg. Then take another saucepan and melt three 
teaspoonfuls of butter, add the same amount of flour, 
and make a smooth paste. Mix all together, stirring 
constantly. Pour in half a cupful of cream, and beat 
until smooth. 

Remove it from the fire and add a slightly beaten 
egg yolk. Serve hot. 



Cocktail Sauce 

Three teaspoonfuls of lemon juice, two even table- 
spoonfuls of grated horse radish, two teaspoonfuls of 
tomato catsup, one teaspoonful of Worcestershire 
sauce, half an even teaspoonful of salt, and a drop of 
Tabasco sauce. Mix well. 



Southern Sauce 

Melt a rounding tablespoonful of butter in a sauce- 
pan. Add to it two rounding tablespoonfuls of chopped 
mushrooms, a teaspoonful each of minced onion and 
green pepper, salt. Cook for four or five minutes. 
Stir in a tablespoonful of flour, and when smooth add 
a cupful of stewed tomatoes. Lemon juice or a little 
spice may be added. 



44 



POULTRY AND GAME 

Chicken Stew (Spanish) 

Take a small chicken and cut it up ; an onion and 
two cupfuls of canned tomatoes. Cover with water 
and boil until the chicken begins to get tender; then 
add thick slices of parboiled potatoes and a cupful of 
canned peas ; salt and pepper to taste (cayenne pepper). 

Half a cupful of canned mushrooms may be used. 



Hot Tomales 

Boil a fowl until tender, adding salt to the water 
at the end of fifteen minutes. When done strip the 
meat from the bones, chop it very fine and season with 
cayenne and salt, adding a little garlic. 

Have ready made a thick paste of cornmeal mush. 
Make the meat into balls, incase each in the mush 
and pack into the inner husks of Indian corn, first 
washing these in boiling water. Tie the husk securely 
around each ball and drop them into the boiling liquor 
in which the chicken was cooked. Boil fifteen minutes. 
Serve hot. 



Chop Suey 

Take a cleaned chicken and cut the meat into small 
strips free from any bone. Cook this in drippings or 
butter until nearly done ; then add half a cupful, or 
less, of dried mushrooms that have been soaked in 
water, and a small onion (minced). Pour over all the 
third of a cupful of Chinese sauce and half a cupful 
of hot water. Stew a few minutes, then put in a stalk 

45 



POULTRY AND GAME 



of chopped celery and three Chinese potatoes, washed 
and sliced. Cover and simmer until done. Thicken 
with flour, and serve with cooked rice. 



Chop Suey (Chicago) 

Take chicken liver, gizzard, and scraps, half an 
ounce of ginger, two stalks of celery and a pound of 
fresh pork. Chop all together and fry in drippings. 

Take a tablespoonful of olive oil, a tablespoonful of 
Worcestershire sauce and two teaspoonfuls of cider 
vinegar. Add salt, pepper and a dash of ground cloves. 
Mix well with a small cupful of boiling water, and a 
small cupful of canned mushrooms ; put the fried meat 
in this and boil five minutes. 



Fried Chicken 

Take a prepared chicken, wash and cut it up. 
Dredge each piece in flour. Put butter or drippings 
in the frying pan and when hot put in the pieces of 
chicken, snugly. Salt and pepper over all. Cover 
tightly and cook very slowly. Then turn the pieces, 
adding a little butter. Leave uncovered and brown 
nicely. 

(Should the chicken be tough, put in a cupful of 
water at first and let it stew awhile before following 
the above process.) 



Fried Chicken, Southern Style 

Clean and joint a young chicken and roll each piece 
in flour. Take four slices of salt pork and fry them 
until crisp. Remove the pork and put the floured 
chicken in the hot grease. Salt and pepper over all. 

46 



POULTRY AND GAME 



Should there not be enough grease add a little shorten- 
ing. Keep turning the chicken and fry slowly until 
tender. 

Have prepared a paste, by rubbing together a table- 
spoonful of flour, a bit of butter and a little milk. Put 
the fried chicken on a hot dish, heat a cupful of milk 
and stir in the paste, add a pinch of soda and stir this 
smoothly into the hot chicken drippings, and sprinkle 
over it a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Bring it to 
a boil and pour it over the chicken. Serve with tart 
jelly. 



Stewed Chicken 

Take a prepared chicken, wash and joint it. Put it 
in a frying pan with two spoonfuls of shortening. Let 
it brown on all sides. Mix together in a paste a tea- 
spoonful of sugar, a teaspoonful of vinegar, a dash of 
salt and pepper and two rounding teaspoonfuls of 
flour, with a little water. 

Put the contents of the frying pan into a kettle, 
cover with the paste and a pint of water. Stew for 
twenty minutes, then cover it tightly and cook slowly. 



Fricasseed Chicken 

Cut up and wash a prepared chicken and fry in fat 
until brown the whole chicken need not be used. 
Take the neck, giblets, back and dark meat. Put the 
browned pieces in a kettle with a pint of water or 
stock, season with salt and pepper; cover it and cook 
slowly for an hour. Make dumplings by sifting two 
small cupfuls of flour with a teaspoonful of baking 
powder, and a little salt. Moisten with a little milk 

47 



POULTRY AND GAME 



or water, and drop a spoonful at a time in the hot 
liquid. Cook for about ten or twelve minutes. 

Garnish with a sprinkling of parsley and a few dots 
of acid jelly. 



Roast Chicken With Dressing 

Take a prepared chicken and wash it thoroughly, 
and be sure that the inside is perfectly clean. Stuff it 
with dressing. Sew it up and tie down the legs and 
wings by wrapping a piece of twine around the chicken. 
Place the chicken in a roasting pan, after rubbing it 
all over with butter and dredging it with flour. Put 
the pan in a hot oven and when the chicken is browned, 
reduce the heat and pour over a pint of hot water; 
balls of left over dressing may be put in. Baste often 
with a large spoon and cook until tender. 
Use any preferred stuffing. 



Baked Chicken 

Take a tender chicken that has been prepared by 
the butcher. Wash it and cut it up (at the joints) ; 
salt and pepper each piece and cover it with a paste 
made of two tablespoonfuls of flour and one rounding 
teaspoonful of butter rubbed together and moistened. 
Put the pieces in a baking pan with two teacupfuls of 
water; cook slowly. 



Chicken Pot Pie 

Wash and cut up a prepared chicken. Line a deep 
pan with paste as for any pie, and pare four medium 
sized potatoes. Dredge the chicken and potatoes with 
flour and add salt and pepper. Place all in the dish 

48 



POULTRY A X D G A M E 



and pour in enough water to cover them. Then put 
on a top crust, pricking holes in the center. Bake for 
more than an hour. 

Should the crust begin to brown too quickly, cover 
it with well buttered paper. The pot pie may be made 
without an under crust, baking it in a pan that may 
be used in serving. 

Currant or cranberry jelly is good with this. 



Chicken and Oyster Pot Pie 

Put all or part of a cleaned and jointed chicken into 
a kettle, cover it with cold water and boil gently until 
tender ; then put in pepper and a half teaspoonful of 
salt. Take out the chicken and thicken the liquid in 
the kettle by making a paste of two tablespoonfuls of 
flour and one of butter well rubbed together and 
moistened with a little of the gravy; stir this in 
smoothly. (Half a cupful of cream is good to use, but 
may be omitted.) 

Now take a deep pan and put strips of pastry up 
and down the sides of the greased pan (two inches 
apart). Put in the chicken and a cupful of oysters 
and pour over all the thickened gravy and cover the 
top with strips of pastry "pinching them" to the 
side pieces. Brush a little milk or egg over the crust 
and bake in a hot oven. As soon as the crust is done 
remove from the oven. Serve with acid jelly. 

Paste for Pot Pie: Three cupfuls of flour sifted 
with two heaping teaspoonfuls of baking powder and 
an even teaspoonful of salt. Chop into the flour two 
tablespoonfuls of very cold shortening and add enough 
milk to make a dough. 

49 



POULTRY AND GAME 



Roast Duck With Ham 

Take a prepared duck, wash it and put it in a baking 
pan. Season with salt, pepper and a little butter or 
lard. Surround the duck with onions cut in halves 
and small slices of fresh ham. Put in about two small 
cupfuls of hot water, and baste to keep the meat 
moist. 



Wild Duck Roasted 

Clean thoroughly and stuff with a dressing made by 
chopping together the giblets, a slice of bacon, a 
small onion, a sprig of parsley and slices of a peeled 
orange. Mix thoroughly with two slices of stale 
bread (crumbed), add salt and pepper to taste (an 
apple may be used instead of the orange), and a dash 
of any preferred spice. 

Bind the wings and legs closely to the body with 
twine. Put the duck into a roasting pan and lay over 
it several thin slices of bacon, and put into a hot oven. 
Brown a little, then pour over all a cupful of hot 
water and cover the pan. Turn down the fire a little 
and roast until tender. Serve with currant jelly or 
sliced oranges. 



Roast Turkey 

Take a young, tender turkey, have the butcher pre- 
pare it for roasting. Wash and dry it, stuff it, sew it 
up and truss it well and rub it all over with butter and 
salt and pepper. Rub a little flour over this. Put the 
turkey in the roasting pan and place it in a hot oven 
until well browned. Now pour in two cupfuls of hot 
water and turn down the fire and cook very slowly 

50 



POULTRY AND G A M E 



for about three hours ; baste it every twenty minutes 
until done. Cover with buttered paper or pan to keep 
from browning too quickly. Baste at first with a 
tablespoonful of melted butter mixed with half a cup- 
ful of hot water. After this is used up baste with the 
liquid in the pan. Use any of the following kinds of 
dressing: Oyster, sage, chestnut, onion. Serve with 
cranberries. 



Rabbit Fricassee 

Skin and thoroughly clean the rabbits, disjoint, and 
put them in a stewpan. Season with salt, pepper and 
chopped parsley. Pour in a large cupful or more of 
broth or water, and simmer until tender. Then put in 
bits of butter and remove it from the fire. Add two 
tablespoonfuls of thick cream, and serve at once. 



NOTE In roasting tc'z'W ducks or other game, that 
have too strong a flavor, parboil them with a small, peeled 
carrot placed in each before roasting. An onion may be 
used for the same purpose, but it will leave the onion 
flavor. 



DRESSING FOR POULTRY 

Plain Dressing 

To four cupfuls of bread crumbs add two cupfuls 
of chopped celery and a heaping tablespoonful of but- 
ter. Salt and pepper to taste. 

Clean the fowl thoroughly, wipe the inside with a 
cloth and rub in any preferred spice before stuffing. 
Do not pack the dressing in tight. 



Apple Dressing 

Chop three tart apples with two or three onions; 
add three or four cupfuls of crumbs and a tablespoon- 
ful of minced beef suet. Mix well and season with 
salt, pepper, and spice if preferred. Moisten with a 
little water to hold the mixture together. 



Oyster Dressing 

Chop a dozen oysters and mix them with two or 
three cupfuls of crumbs and a rounding teaspoonful 
of butter. Add a little oyster liquor to bind the mix- 
ture together. Salt and pepper to taste. 



Sage Dressing 

Three cupfuls of slightly moistened bread crumbs, 
a minced onion, a rounding teaspoonful of butter, an 
even teaspoonful or more of powdered sage, salt and 
pepper to taste. Bind the mixture together with a 
slightly beaten egg. (Chopped celery, parsley, etc., 
may be used in this recipe.) 

52 



DRESSING FOR POULTRY 

Peanut Dressing 

Moisten two or three cupfuls of bread crumbs. Add 
a minced onion, a minced celery heart, half a cupful 
of finely chopped peanuts, salt and pepper to taste. 



Potato Dressing 

Take a large cupful or more of hot mashed potatoes, 
beat until light with the yolk of an egg and a table- 
spoonful of melted butter. Mix well with a rounding 
tablespoonful each of chopped parsley and celery, one 
quarter of a cupful of cream, and salt and pepper to 
taste. 



Fruit Dressing 

A cupful of chopped apples, a cupful of chopped 
prunes and two cupfuls of crumbs. Spice, salt and 
pepper to taste. Add a little milk to bind the mix- 
ture. 



Sausage Dressing 

Take a cake of cooked sausage, chop it, and mix it 
with enough moistened bread crumbs to make the 
required amount. Season it with salt, pepper, a bit 
of sage or other herb, and a rounding teaspoonful of 
butter. Cut in small pieces. 



53 



SIDE DISHES WITH MEATS 

Roast Beef 

Roast beef may be served with almost any kind of 
vegetables ; potatoes in any style, beans, beets, squash, 
tomatoes, etc., and either horse radish or mustard 
sauce. 



Corned Beef 

This is often served with cabbage, beets, potatoes, 
turnips, carrots, squash, and horse radish or mustard 
sauce. 



Beef Steak 

Beef steak may be served with stuffed or plain toma- 
toes, baked or fried potatoes, peas, parsnips, spinach, 
celery, onions, and tomato sauce. 



Roast Chicken 

Roast chicken is served with celery, browned pota- 
toes, squash, corn, beets, onions, and any kind of tart 
jelly and dressing. 



Boiled Chicken 

Boiled chicken may be accompanied with parsnips, 
tomatoes, potatoes, rice, celery, lettuce, asparagus, 
peas, and currant, grape or cranberry jelly. 



Duck 

Roast duck is well served with any kind of potatoes, 
except fried; macaroni, corn, beans, squash, onions, 
celery, rice, fruit salad and tart jelly, or apple sauce. 

54 



SIDE DISHES WITH MEATS 

Goose 

Roast goose is served with richly seasoned dressing, 
beans, mashed potatoes, sweet potatoes, baked maca- 
roni, baked tomatoes, croquettes of rice or corn, 
onions, beets, turnips, olives, and spiced jellies or apple 
sauce. 



Turkey 

Roast turkey should be richly stuffed and served 
with any of the following: 

Mashed potatoes, baked sweet potatoes, squash, tur- 
nips, tomatoes, sweet pickles of any kind, minced raw 
cabbage, peas, currant jelly and cranberry sauce. 



Baked Fish 

Baked fish is accompanied with peas, corn, mashed 
potatoes, cucumbers, lettuce, celery, tomatoes, and 
butter or lemon sauce. 



Boiled Fish 

Boiled fish may be served with potatoes, lettuce, to- 
matoes, sliced lemon and tomato sauce. 



Roast Lamb 

Roast lamb is served with green peas, string beans, 
corn, potatoes, squash, spinach, asparagus, celery, and 
mint sauce or jelly. 



Boiled Lamb 

Boiled lamb is served with potatoes, turnips, peas, 
asparagus, spinach, jelly, and egg sauce. 

55 



SIDE DISHES WITH MEATS 

Lamb Chops 

Lamb chops are served with fried potatoes, spinach, 
lettuce, asparagus, sweet pickles, grape jelly and to- 
mato sauce. 

Mutton 

Roast or boiled mutton is accompanied by mashed 
or boiled potatoes, macaroni, cabbage, cauliflower, 
olives, asparagus, spinach, peas, currant jelly and mint 
or caper sauce. 



Mutton Chops 

Mutton chops are served with fried potatoes, baked 
sweet potatoes, celery, lettuce and tomato sauce. 



Roast Pork 

Roast pork may be served with onion dressing, sweet 
potatoes, Irish potatoes boiled, baked or mashed ; corn 
in any style, tomatoes, baked beans, beets, carrots, 
turnips, celery, spinach, squash, etc., and apple sauce 
with lemon slices. 



Pork Chops and Ham 

With either of these serve fried potatoes, eggs, 
sweet potatoes, croquettes, tomatoes, lettuce, celery, 
olives, onions ; horse radish or mustard sauce with ham, 
and apple sauce with pork chops. 



Veal 

Roast veal may be accompanied by boiled or mashed 
potatoes, macaroni, spinach, asparagus, celery, baked 
tomatoes, grape jelly, horse radish or tomato sauce. 

56 



EGGS AND OMELETS 

Eggs with Cheese 

Take a small baking dish and cover the bottom 
rather thickly with butter. Sprinkle this with grated 
cheese and break, very carefully, four eggs over this. 
Season with salt, pepper and a tablespoonful of cream. 
Sprinkle grated cheese thickly over the top, and bake. 
Do not have the oven too hot. 



Omelet 

Beat separately, the yolks and whites of four eggs. 
Mix with the yolks a cupful of milk, four teaspoonfuls 
of cornstarch that has been dissolved in a little of the 
milk ; add salt. Stir in, at the last, the stiffly beaten 
whites and cook in a well buttered sauce pan. 



Batter Omelet 

Make a batter by stirring together a cupful of milk, 
a beaten egg, and enough flour to thicken it. Add salt 
and pepper. Scramble four or five eggs, with a round- 
ing teaspoonful of butter. Cut into squares, dip each 
square into the batter and fry them in hot butter. 



Curried Eggs 

Mince an onion, fry it in butter, then add a round- 
ing teaspoonful of curry powder and a cupful of stock. 
Stew this until the onion is soft. Take half a cupful 
of cream and thicken it with a teaspoonful of flour, and 
stir it in the mixture, with several hard boiled eggs 
cut in slices. Let it simmer a little and then serve. 

57 



SALADS 

Banana Salad 

Beat the white of one egg with a tablespoonful of 
sugar. Take two small plates and spread each with 
nice crisp lettuce. Slice two or three bananas and 
roll each slice in the egg and then in chopped peanuts. 
Place on the plates evenly and lay slices over each 
like thin sandwiches. Drop on each a small spoonful 
of the egg and a circle of halves of peanut kernels, in 
the center of each place a dot of jelly. 



Pear Salad 

Put crisp lettuce on two plates. Slice the peeled 
pears crosswise, remove the core and place on the dish 
in a circle near the edge. Sprinkle with sugar and 
heap in the center any preferred fruit, currants, cher- 
ries, etc. Pour over a fruit dressing, or French dress- 
ing may be used. 



Fruit Salad 

Slice two peeled oranges across and arrange them 
on lettuce leaves. Take seeded grapes, currants or 
any preferred fruit and mix with two tablespoonfuls 
of chopped nuts. Cover with mayonnaise dressing and 
serve very cold. 



Peach Salad 

Take three peaches and peel them ; cut them in 
halves, remove the stones and place three halves on a 
plate covered with crisp lettuce. Fill the center with 
chopped nuts, and pour over any preferred dressing. 

58 



SALADS 

Beet Salad 

Take a salad dish, or individual dishes, and cover 
with crisp lettuce ; put over this a layer of chopped 
cabbage mixed with a little prepared horse radish; on 
top of this place a few sprigs of parsley, then quartered 
slices of boiled beets, salt and pepper. Serve with 
mustard dressing. 

(Slices of hard boiled eggs may be used instead of 
the cabbage.) 



Pea Salad 

Take a cupful of drained canned peas, two rounding 
tablespoonfuls of chopped sweet pickles, and one tea- 
spoonful of minced onions. Mix thoroughly and heap 
on plates covered with crisp lettuce. Sprinkle grated 
cheese over the top and serve with any preferred 
dressing. 



Egg Salad 

Slice four hard boiled eggs and arrange in a layer 
on two salad dishes covered with lettuce. Sprinkle 
over this grated nutmeg; on this place a layer of 
grated cheese, next a layer of chopped sweet pickles 
and a slice of egg in the center. Serve with any pre- 
ferred dressing. 



Orange Salad 

Cover a salad plate with a large lettuce leaf, then 
a layer of shredded lettuce ; cover this with a thick 
layer of sliced oranges and sprinkle with shredded 
cocoanut. Use any preferred dressing. 

59 



SALADS 



Celery Salad 

Cut up celery that has been in cold water, or on 
ice. Arrange in a little heap on crisp cold lettuce, and 
pour over it a dressing of mayonnaise. 



Celery and Apple Salad 

Take two salad dishes and lay on each a crisp 
lettuce leaf, then place on this a thick layer of sliced 
apples. Salt them slightly and sprinkle with grated 
nutmeg or ground cinnamon. Over this sprinkle a 
layer of chopped celery hearts. A few nuts are good 
for the top. Mayonnaise or any preferred dressing 
may be used. 



Celery and Nut Salad 

Take two large, round, ripe, red tomatoes. Cut off 
a slice at the stem end and dig out the pulp. Take 
two small salad plates, make an outer circle of parsley 
sprigs or nasturtium flowers, and set the tomato cups 
in the center. Fill the tomato cups with the tomato 
pulp, chopped celery heart and chopped walnut, or any 
other nuts, mixed thoroughly with French or cream 
dressing. 



Peanut Salad 

Take four heaping tablespoonfuls of shelled peanuts, 
two small cupfuls of chopped celery and a dozen 
chopped olives. Mix well and serve on two plates 
covered with crisp lettuce. Use mayonnaise dressing. 
(Chopped pickled onions may be added or used in- 
stead of the olives.) 

60 



S A LADS 

Apple Salad 

Take a cupful each of celery and apples cut in small, 
uniform pieces. Add half a cupful or less of any 
preferred chopped nuts, mix thoroughly and place on 
lettuce leaves in a salad dish. Serve with mayonnaise 
or any preferred dressing. 



Prune Salad 

Take a cupful of prunes that have been soaked over 
night, cut them in halves and put mixed chopped nut 
in each piece. Take two plates, cover them with crisp 
lettuce, then a light layer of finely chopped celery 
sprinkled with ground cinnamon or grated nutmeg, 
then cover with the prunes and serve with mayonnaise 
or any preferred dressing. 



Cherry Salad 

Take two small dishes and cover with crisp lettuce, 
then a layer of canned cherries. Put a few slices of 
pineapple over the cherries and sprinkle over the top 
chopped English walnuts. Serve with mayonnaise or 
any preferred dressing. 



Tomato Salad No. 1 

Line a bowl or individual dishes with crisp lettuce 
or parsley. Over this place a thick layer of fresh to- 
matoes, peeled and sliced (canned tomatoes may be 
used), salt and pepper and sprinkle over it a table- 
spoonful of vinegar in which a little prepared mustard 
or horse radish has been stirred. Sprinkle a bit of 
shredded lettuce or greens over this, and pour over it 
all dressing of mayonnaise. Place a few nuts on top. 

61 



SALADS 



Tomato Salad No. 2 

Take three ripe red tomatoes, peel them and slice 
evenly. Cover two plates with crisp lettuce and ar- 
range the slices in circles on the lettuce. Heap chopped 
celery in the center, salt and pepper to taste, and serve 
with cream dressing. 



Tomato Salad No. 3 

Take two salad plates and cover them with crisp 
lettuce. Make an outer circle of tomato slices, over- 
lapping these, place slices of cold boiled potatoes, and 
in the center a layer of chopped celery; on the top a 
few tomato slices. Sprinkle salt and pepper over all 
and serve with mayonnaise dressing. 



Pretty Salad 

Take individual salad plates and make a circle of 
nasturtium leaves and flowers, the stems pointing to 
the center of the plate. Inside of this a circle of sliced 
boiled potatoes, then sliced or canned tomatoes, on 
the top sliced hard boiled egg and a bit of the nastur- 
tium. Serve with any preferred dressing. (Egg or 
cream dressing is very good.) 



Potato Salad No. i 

One cupful of sliced boiled potatoes, one cupful of 
chopped celery and one finely chopped onion. Mix 
together with salt and pepper. Melt a rounding tea- 
spoonful of butter and stir into it a heaping teaspoon- 
ful of flour and add half a cupful of water and a table- 
spoonful of prepared mustard with a spoonful of 

62 



SALADS 

vinegar. When it is cooked stir in a beaten egg. As 
soon as the mixture is cold pour it over the salad and 
garnish with parsley and slices of hard boiled egg. 



Potato Salad No. 2 

Take two salad plates and sprinkle thickly with 
sprigs of parsley. Mix together one cupful each of 
celery cut in dice, and boiled potato slices, and a dash 
of salt and pepper. Pile half on each dish and cover 
the top with a few slices of hard boiled egg, and a 
sprinkling of minced olives. Serve very cold with 
French dressing. 



Potato Salad No. 3 

Take two small cupfuls of sliced boiled potatoes, 
add a small sliced green cucumber, salt and pepper. 
Arrange this mixture on two salad plates over crisp 
lettuce leaves; sprinkle over this a minced onion and 
on top place slices of hard boiled egg. Make a dress- 
ing by mixing a heaping teaspoonful of butter, a tea- 
spoonful of prepared mustard, two rounding teaspoon- 
fuls of sugar and three tablespoonfuls of vinegar. 
Boil this and stir in a half a cupful or less of cream ; 
when it boils up once more, remove from the fire and 
w r hen cold add a few spoonfuls of whipped cream. 
Pour the dressing over the salad and serve. 



Potato Salad No. 4 

Take two salad plates and cover them \vith crisp 
lettuce. Put on a thick layer of sliced boiled potatoes, 
sprinkle them with salt and pepper. Mince a small 
onion and spread it lightly over the potatoes. 

63 



SALADS 



Mix two tablespoonfuls of olive oil with two of 
vinegar and pour this over the salad. Sprinkle the top 
with minced parsley and let the salad be very cold for 
serving. 

(Lemon juice may be used instead of vinegar.) 



German Potato Salad 

Take two salad plates and cover them with lettuce. 
Mince a small onion and a few olives, or bits of pickles, 
and mix well with two cupfuls of sliced boiled 
potatoes; add salt and pepper; heap it on the two 
plates. Fry a small piece of salt pork and take a 
tablespoonful of the grease, a tablespoonful of vinegar 
and a little hot water. Pour this mixture over the 
salad, and sprinkle the top with finely chopped parsley. 



Veal Salad 

Cover two salad plates with crisp lettuce. Mix one 
and one-half cupfuls of chopped veal loaf with as many 
chopped English walnut meats as desired. Heap this 
on the two plates and serve with any preferred dress- 
ing. (Horse radish dressing is very good.) 



Lobster Salad No. i 

Take a cupful of canned lobster, cut in small pieces 
and add half a cupful or more of chopped cold chicken, 
or roast pork (or both), and a minced onion. Mix 
well and serve on lettuce leaves with mayonnaise or 
any preferred dressing. 



Lobster Salad No. 2 

Cut up a cupful of boiled lobster and add half a 
cupful of chopped celery hearts. Mix lightly, season 

64 



SALADS 



with salt and pepper and serve on crisp lettuce with 
French dressing. Garnish with a few olives. 



Oyster Salad 

Cover individual plates with lettuce and on this 
place a layer of oysters. Season them with salt and 
pepper. Then add a layer of sliced hard boiled eggs, 
and sprinkle all liberally with chopped mixed pickles. 
Use French dressing. 



Grape Salad 

Cover salad plates with lettuce and sprinkle over 
it finely chopped celery hearts. Cut in half red or white 
grapes and remove the seeds. Put a thick layer of the 
prepared grapes on the plates and sprinkle over them 
a layer of walnut meats, or any preferred nuts. Cover 
with French dressing. 



Cucumber Salad 

Place crisp lettuce on salad plates. Peel two small 
green cucumbers and cut them in round even slices. 
Slice a small onion, mix the slices and arrange on the 
plates. Add salt and pepper and pour over all a dress- 
ing of mayonnaise. 



Cabbage Salad 

Cut the cabbage in a slice across the head, then cut 
the slice into small pieces. Take a large cupful of the 
cabbage and season it with salt, pepper and two table- 
spoonfuls of sugar. Heap this on two plates on which 
lettuce leaves have been placed. Either French or egg 
dressing may be used. 

65 



SALADS 



Cheese Salad 

Take two salad plates and lay on each a crisp let- 
tuce leaf; then take two or three more lettuce leaves 
and break them in small pieces. Put a layer of the 
shredded lettuce over the lettuce leaves. Take four 
hard boiled eggs, remove the shells, cut them round 
and remove the yolks, make even circles of the whites. 

Mince the yolks and add a small cupful of grated 
cheese, a teaspoonful of prepared mustard, salt and 
pepper. Mix well and pour in a tablespoonful of oil 
and two tablespoonfuls of vinegar. Mix again and 
heap half of this upon each plate of shredded lettuce. 
Garnish with the white of egg circles. 



Ham Salad 

Cover two plates with crisp lettuce and put over 
that a layer of finely chopped cabbage, salt and pepper 
this lightly; then put on a layer of boiled ham cut in 
dice. Sprinkle over the ham finely chopped mixed 
sweet pickles. Use French or any preferred dressing. 



Salmon Salad 

Cover two plates with crisp lettuce. Put on this 
a layer of canned salmon cut in small pieces. On this 
place thin round slices of cucumbers, and serve with 
lemon dressing. 



Sardine Salad 

Cover two salad plates with crisp lettuce, sprinkle 
over this a little chopped parsley, then arrange sar- 
dines. Garnish with slices of hard boiled eggs, or 
boiled beets. Lemon, horse radish or any preferred 
dressing. 

66 



SALADS 



Chicken Salad 

Cover the salad dish with crisp lettuce. Take two 
small cupfuls of cooked chicken meat that has been 
cut in small pieces and mix with it half a cupful of 
chopped celery seasoned with salt and pepper. Pile 
this on the plate and sprinkle the top with chopped 
nuts. Garnish with parsley and serve with mayon- 
naise or any preferred dressing. 



Bean Salad 

Take a cupful or less of cold cooked beans, mix them 
with half a cupful of chopped celery and a chopped 
pickled onion. Cover the salad dish with crisp lettuce, 
heap on this the mixture and garnish with marbles of 
fried mashed potatoes and slices of hard boiled eggs. 

Serve with horse radish or any preferred dressing. 



Pineapple Salad 

Take two salad dishes and cover them with crisp 
lettuce. On this place slices of pineapple sprinkled 
with chopped nutmeats and minced celery heart, and 
on this a layer of sliced oranges. Sprinkle with 
shredded cocoanut. 

Any preferred delicate dressing. 



Strawberry Salad 

Cover individual salad plates with lettuce leaves. 
Place a layer of banana slices and sprinkle lightly with 
shredded lettuce, then a generous layer of fresh straw- 
berries, sprinkle them with sugar and serve with Fruit 
Dressing No. 2. 

67 



SALADS 



English Walnut Salad 

Take blanched English walnuts, roll each half in 
Mayonnaise dressing and arrange them on lettuce 
leaves, with a few chopped celery hearts. Put May- 
onnaise dressing over all. 



Stuffed Peppers 

When green peppers are to be served raw, they 
must be washed, the top sliced off, the seeds and sec- 
tions removed and the shells soaked in ice water. If 
to be cooked, parboil the shells for five minutes. Any 
kind of salad may be served in the raw shells, and the 
cooked ones may be served in various ways. Sausage 
filling is made by mixing minced onion, minced parsley 
and bread crumbs with the sausage, adding salt and 
pepper with a lump of butter. Bake fifteen minutes. 
(Have a little water in the pan.) 



68 



SALAD DRESSING 

Egg Dressing 

Mix a rounding tablespoonful of flour, a rounding 
tablespoonful of sugar, a tablespoonful of cream and 
one-quarter of a teaspoonful of salt, to a paste, and 
stir in a beaten egg. Mix thoroughly and add half 
a cupful of vinegar and cook to a cream, then remove 
from the fire. When cold beat in half a cupful or less 
of cream and serve. 

'(Butter may be used in this dressing.) 



French Dressing No. i 

Take an even teaspoonful of prepared mustard, a 
bit of paprika and a pinch of salt. Mix together with 
a spoonful of vinegar and stir it into quarter of a 
cupful of vinegar and add one-quarter of a cupful of 
olive oil. Mix thoroughly. 



French Dressing No. 2 

Take a saltspoonful or less of minced onion, a dash 
of pepper and a pinch of salt; stir this into a large 
spoonful of vinegar, add three or more tablespoonfuls 
of olive oil and beat until it is well mixed and smooth. 



French Dressing No. 3 

Take one teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce, one 
teaspoonful of lemon juice, one teaspoonful of pre- 
pared mustard, a pinch of salt and pepper and two 
rounding teaspoonfuls of sugar. Stir well with three 
tablespoonfuls of olive oil, beating thoroughly, then 
add three tablespoonfuls of vinegar and beat again. 

69 



SALAD DRESSING 



Cooked Dressing No. 1 (May be kept for some time) 

Take a rounding tablespoonful of flour and the same 
quantity of sugar, and a teaspoonful of mustard, half 
a teaspoonful of salt, and mix into a paste with a little 
water. Put this with three beaten eggs, a rounding 
teaspoonful of butter and half a cup of water, add 
two cupfuls or less of vinegar and cook, stirring until 
it is like cream. 



Cooked Dressing No. 2 (May be kept) 

Take two tablespoonfuls each of flour and butter 
and make a paste by adding a little milk or water. 
Then stir together two eggs, two rounding teaspoon- 
fuls of sugar, an even teaspoonful of mustard, half an 
even teaspoonful of salt and half a cupful of vinegar. 
Put this on the fire, cook slowly, adding the paste and 
a cupful of milk or water. Keep stirring until like 
thick cream. 



Cooked Dressing No. 3 (May be kept) 

Take an even teaspoonful of dry mustard, two table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, one quarter of a teaspoonful of 
salt, a rounding teaspoonful of flour and a rounding 
teaspoonful of butter. Mix thoroughly with a beaten 
egg. Heat half a cupful of vinegar, stir in the paste, 
putting in a dash of pepper, and cook. Pour in slowly 
a cupful of milk, constantly stirring until of the con- 
sistency of thick cream. 



Butter Dressing (May be kept) 

Mix half a cupful of butter with a heaping teaspoon- 
ful of flour, a rounding teaspoonful of dry mustard and 

70 



SALAD DRESSING 



a tablespoonful of vinegar; make it smooth. Heat this 
mixture with a cupful of condensed milk in a double 
boiler, stir in a well beaten egg. When hot stir in a 
cupful of vinegar and half an even teaspoonful of salt. 
Cook three minutes and stir steadily. 



Easy Dressing 

Beat an egg and add to it a mixture composed of a 
rounding teaspoonful each of flour and sugar, an even 
teaspoonful of dry mustard and half of a teaspoonful 
of salt. Put a cupful of milk in a double boiler and 
pour in the mixture, adding two-thirds of a cupful of 
vinegar. Cook until thick, stirring it well. Use cold 
and beat in half a cupful of thin cream. 



Mayonnaise Dressing No. i (Without oil) 

Cook together in a double boiler a rounding tea- 
spoonful of butter, a rounding tablespoonful of sugar, 
an even teaspoonful of prepared mustard, half a cup- 
ful of vinegar, half an even teaspoonful of salt, and 
half a cupful of water. Let it boil and add two beaten 
eggs and a teaspoonful of peanut butter. Stir well and 
when like cream remove from the fire. 

This will keep several days. 



Mayonnaise Dressing No. 2 

Beat an egg thoroughly and add an even teaspoon- 
ful of prepared mustard, a quarter of a teaspoonful of 
salt, two tablespoonfuls of oil and four teaspoonfuls of 
lemon juice. Stir well and cook in a double boiler 
until like thick cream. When cold, just before using, 
thin cream may be whipped in it. 

71 



SALAD DRESSING 



Mayonnaise Dressing No. 3 

Take a cold shallow bowl and the yolk of an egg 
that has been in the refrigerator. On the yolk drop 
four drops of lemon juice and stir with a silver fork. 
While stirring add, drop by drop, salad oil to the 
amount of a cupful. When this begins to thicken, the 
oil may be added more rapidly, stirring constantly 
until very thick ; then add half a cupful of vinegar and 
a teaspoonful of prepared mustard. Salt and pepper. 



Dressing for Fruit No. i 

Cook together one cupful of vinegar, one rounding 
tablespoonful of sugar, pepper, half an even teaspoon- 
ful of salt and butter the size of a walnut. When it 
boils add two beaten eggs. Stir well and when it boils 
again remove from the fire. When cold and ready to 
serve add four tablespoonfuls of whipped cream. 



Dressing for Fruit No. 2 

Beat two eggs until very light, add five tablespoon- 
fuls of thick cream, salt and pepper and a pinch of 
dry mustard. Beat thoroughly and serve. 



Sour Cream Dressing for Lettuce, Etc. 

Beat together four tablespoonfuls of sour cream, 
two heaping tablespoonfuls of sugar and three table- 
spoonfuls of vinegar with a pinch of salt. Beat until 
of the consistency of cream. 

This is good with cucumbers, lettuce, etc. 



Lemon Dressing for Lettuce, Etc. 

Beat together thoroughly the juice of two or three 

72 



SALAD DRESSING 

lemons, two rounding teaspoonfuls of sugar and a 
tablespoonful each of vinegar and olive oil. Mix 
thoroughly and serve. 



Oil and Lemon Dressing 

Beat separately the yolks and whites of two eggs. 
Mix together two teaspoonfuls of olive oil and the 
juice of half a lemon. Add this slowly to the yolks, 
beating constantly. Salt and pepper to taste, and add 
the beaten whites with a tablespoonful of sugar. Stir 
thoroughly and add a cupful of whipped cream. Whip 
all together until stiff and set it on the ice until ready 
to serve. 



Dressing for Meat Salad 

Boil together half a teacupful of vinegar and a heap- 
ing tablespoonful of sugar. Melt a rounding teaspoon- 
ful of butter, add the same amount of flour, and stir 
the vinegar into it gradually until thick and smooth. 
Season with salt, pepper and half a teaspoonful of 
mustard. Beat an egg thoroughly and stir it in the 
boiling mixture with another teaspoonful of butter. 
Remove in one minute. 



Horse Radish Dressing for Meat 

Take a cupful of chicken stock and thicken it with a 
paste made by rubbing together a rounding teaspoon- 
ful each of butter and flour. When hot add salt and 
pepper, an even teaspoonful of prepared mustard and 
two tablespoonfuls of lemon juice. Boil and stir in 
half a cupful of cream and the well beaten yolk of an 

73 



SALAD DRESSING 



egg. Turn down the fire and add three tablespoonfuls 
of prepared horse radish, simmer a minute or two and 
serve while hot. 



Tomato and Onion Dressing for Meat 

Melt a tablespoonful of butter and add the same 
amount of flour and a rounding teaspoonful of chopped 
onion. Pour into this a cupful of tomato pulp that 
has been put through a sieve, salt and pepper to taste. 
Serve very hot. 



To Color Dressing Green 

Take a small cupful of peas and add two or three 
leaves of mint and lettuce, a branch of parsley and a 
little spinach. When the peas are well cooked drain 
and put the pulp through a sieve, and when it is dry 
add a small quantity of mayonnaise. 



Note 

Uncooked mayonnaise made with oil should not be 
prepared long before using, as the mixture may curdle. 
Everything used should be cold and the oil dropped 
slowly at first. 



74 



PUDDINGS 

Our Pudding 

Take half a pint of milk, milk and water, or water, 
and bring to the boiling point. Remove it from the 
fire and stir into it two-thirds of a cupful of grape- 
nuts and half a cupful of seeded raisins, three table- 
spoonfuls of sugar that has been mixed with a table- 
spoonful of cornstarch, a pinch of salt, a quarter of 
an even teaspoonful of grated nutmeg and the yolk of 
one egg. Mix well and cook in a double boiler for 
twenty minutes, or until like custard. Then turn it 
into two pudding dishes and when cold heap on each 
a portion of the white of the egg, beaten stiff with 
two tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

The egg may be omitted and any preferred sauce 
may be used. 



Banana and Lemon Pudding 

Butter a deep baking dish and put into it a thick 
layer of sliced bananas, half of a lemon sliced with the 
rind left on, a heaping tablespoonful of brown sugar 
and a sprinkling of ground cinnamon. Pour over this 
a batter made by using a small cupful of flour sifted 
with a rounding teaspoonful of baking pow-der, 
butter the size of a marble, and a rounding tablespoon- 
ful of brown sugar. Sprinkle brown sugar over the 
top and bake for about ten minutes. 



Banana Pudding 

Take four large ripe bananas, slice them very thin 
and press them through a sieve. Add a scant cupful 

75 



PUDDINGS 



of cake or cookie crumbs, the beaten yolk of one egg, 
half a cupful or less of finely chopped nuts and half a 
cupful of cream (or milk) and a bit of butter. Sprinkle 
over this grated nutmeg, and last put in lightly the 
well beaten white of the egg. Bake in a greased pud- 
ding dish in a moderate oven and serve with fruit 
sauce, or cream and sugar. 



Date Pudding 

Take one well beaten egg, one scant cupful of sugar, 
three rounding tablespoonfuls of flour in which has 
been sifted one teaspoonful of baking powder, half 
an even teaspoonful of salt, and a lump of butter 
the size of a hickory nut. Stir thoroughly and add a 
large cupful of chopped mixed dates and walnuts with 
half a teaspoonful of vanilla. Mix well with a spoon- 
ful of cream and bake slowly for fifteen or twenty 
minutes. Serve with any preferred sauce. 



Rhubarb Pudding 

One and a half cupfuls of stewed and strained rhu- 
barb placed in a stewpan, add half a teacupful of water 
and let it come to a boil. Thicken with cornstarch, 
and sugar to taste. Flavor with vanilla or lemon and 
pour it into moulds to cool. 

Serve with cream or any preferred sauce. 



Prune Pudding 

Heat two cupfuls of milk, moisten a heaping tea- 
spoonful of cornstarch and stir it in smoothly. Remove 
from the fire, add about half a cupful of sugar, or to 
taste, a pinch of salt and two well beaten eggs. Stir 

76 



PUDDINGS 



thoroughly and put in a cupful of stewed prunes stoned 
and cut in halves. Pour the mixture into a buttered 
pudding dish and bake about fifteen minutes. 
Serve with any preferred sauce. 



Orange Pudding 

Peel, slice and sweeten two oranges and arrange 
them in two dishes. Beat the yolk of one egg and stir 
with it two rounding teaspoonfuls of sugar and a 
grating of nutmeg. Take two small cupfuls of milk 
and bring it to the boiling point and thicken it with a 
heaping tablespoonful of cornstarch. Add the beaten 
yolk and stir it well. Cook for a few minutes and 
pour it over the oranges. Beat the white of the egg 
well, add a little sugar and heap it on top of the two 
dishes. 



Orange Cottage Pudding 

Peel and slice two oranges and cover them with 
half of a cupful or more of sugar, let it stand for half 
an hour. Make a batter of one beaten egg, a scant 
cupful of sugar, a large cupful of flour in which has 
been sifted a heaping teaspoonful of baking powder, a 
rounding tablespoonful of butter and half a cupful or 
more of milk. Bake about twenty-five minutes in a 
slow oven. Slice and arrange on the dishes a layer 
of cake and then a layer of orange. 

Serve with thick cream or any preferred sauce. 



Steamed Cottage Pudding 

Chop suet very fine to the amount of half a cupful, 
mix with a rounding teaspoonful of butter, add a cup- 

77 



PUDDINGS 



ful of seeded raisins (or mixed with currants), an 
even teaspoonful of ground cinnamon, a pinch of 
ground cloves, half of an even teaspoonful of salt, 
and a cupful of sweet milk. Stir well and add two 
tablespoonfuls of flour in which has been sifted a 
teaspoonful of baking powder and a tiny pinch of 
saleratus. Add flour enough to make a stiff batter, 
and steam for three hours. Serve with any preferred 
sauce. 



Our Cottage Pudding 

Make a plain cake. Cream together one-half cupful 
of butter and one cupful of sugar. Sift a rounding 
teaspoonful of baking powder with a large cupful of 
flour, add the sugar mixture, two beaten eggs, a pinch 
of salt, one-half cupful of milk or water, and a scant 
teaspoonful of vanilla. Stir all together and add flour 
to make a stiff batter. Bake in a greased pan. 

Sauce. Take a saucepan, put in a teacupful of water 
and let it boil. Stir in a rounding teaspoonful (or 
less) of butter and half a cupful of sugar. Thicken 
with a rounding teaspoonful of flour (mixed with the 
sugar or with a little water so it will not form lumps). 
Let it cook until it is like syrup, add a little vanilla 
and pour over thick squares of the hot cake. 



Cracker Pudding 

Take two cupfuls of sweet milk and heat it to the 
boiling point. Stir in two cupfuls of crushed crackers. 
Beat an egg thoroughly and stir it in and flavor with 
nutmeg or vanilla. Serve with fruit sauce. 

78 



PUDDINGS 



Almond Pudding 

Chop into very small pieces half a cupful of blanched 
almonds and mix with them a grated or finely chopped 
apple, a heaping tablespoonful of sugar, an even tea- 
spoonful of ground cinnamon, a pinch of salt and a 
large cupful of soaked bread crumbs. Stir thoroughly 
and add a well beaten egg. Bake in a greased pudding 
dish for about twenty-five minutes. Serve with fruit 
sauce. 



Cocoanut Pudding 

Take a cupful of fine bread crumbs and soak them 
in two cupfuls of sweet milk. Beat the yolks of two 
eggs and stir into them half a cupful of sugar and a 
piece of butter the size of a hickory nut. Add a table- 
spoonful of lemon juice and mix all thoroughly with 
the soaked bread and a half cupful or less of finely 
shredded cocoanut. Bake in individual pans until the 
custard is well set. 

Make a meringue by beating the whites of the eggs, 
and add gradually a heaping tablespoonful of sugar. 
Heap the meringue on the pudding and sprinkle with 
cocoanut. Brown lightly and serve cold. 



Chocolate Cocoanut Pudding 

Take two cupfuls of sweet milk and a heaping tea- 
spoonful of broken chocolate, heat to the boiling point. 
Mix one heaping teaspoonful of cornstarch, half a cup- 
ful of sugar and a rounding teaspoonful of powdered 
cocoanut. Add this to the milk with a well beaten egg. 
Stir until thick, and pour into two dishes. Serve cold 
with cream or fruit sauce. 

79 



PUDDINGS 



Easy Cocoanut Custard 

Add a well beaten egg to two cupfuls of milk, half a 
cupful of sugar, a pinch of salt and half a teaspoonful 
of vanilla. Stir well with two heaping tablespoonfuls 
of shredded cocoanut. Bake in two small dishes and 
serve with cream. 



Pineapple Pudding (Or other fruit) 

Take a small sponge cake and split it like layer 
cake. Put the bottom piece in a greased pudding pan, 
wet it and spread over it slices of pineapple, sprinkle 
lightly with sugar, place on the wet top, cover closely 
and bake slowly. Remove the cover and brown. 

Any preferred fruit may be used. Serve with cream 
or other sauce. 



Apple-Bread Pudding 

Grease a small baking dish and cover the bottom 
thickly with bread crumbs, dot this with butter, add a 
dash of salt ; next place a layer of sliced apples, sprinkle 
thickly with sugar and cinnamon, or any preferred 
spice; put on a top layer of bread crumbs, dot with 
butter, add spice, salt and pepper and pour over this 
half a cupful of hot water. Bake slowly and serve 
with cream or fruit sauce. 



Chocolate Pudding 

Cream together a rounding teaspoonful of butter and 
half a cupful of sugar. Sift together half a cupful of 
flour and a rounding teaspoonful of baking powder. 
Mix the ingredients together with one square of choco- 
late, melted, half a cupful of milk and a well beaten 
egg. Steam or bake in individual dishes. 

80 



PUDDINGS 



Indian Pudding 

Heat two cupfuls of milk to the boiling point and 
pour in slowly a cupful of cornmeal, stirring con- 
stantly ; let it boil slowly. Remove from the fire and 
add a cupful or more of rich milk, a well beaten egg, 
half an even teaspoonful of salt, an even teaspoonful 
of ground cinnamon, a rounding teaspoonful of butter 
and a cupful of New Orleans molasses. Stir well and 
pour the mixture into a greased pudding dish and bake 
for an hour or longer. Serve with any preferred sauce. 



Fruit Pudding 

Sift together a cupful of flour, half an even teaspoon- 
ful of salt, and a rounding teaspoonful of baking pow- 
der. Chop into this a heaping teaspoonful of shorten- 
ing and add a cupful of water. Stir and add flour or 
water, making as stiff a dough as can be easily stirred. 
Spread a layer of dough in a greased pudding dish, 
then put in the layer of fruit, fresh, dried or canned, 
and season to taste. Roll the pastry for top, or thin 
it and pour over all. Bake slowly. Serve with sauce. 



Rice Pudding 

Take one-third of a cupful or more of well washed 
rice (rub it thoroughly), put plenty of water in a 
porcelain kettle and let it boil, then drop in the rice 
a little at a time, keeping the water boiling. Cook for 
five minutes or more, watching that it may not stick to 
the kettle. Now pour it all into a sieve and hold it 
under the cold water faucet. Each grain should be 
separate from the others. Heat more \vater or milk 
and add the rice as before. After it boils for about 

81 



PUDDINGS 



five minutes put it in a double boiler and cook it 
until tender and dry (rice will absorb about four times 
its bulk in liquid). Add one cupful of milk, a table- 
spoonful of currants, a dash of salt, and sugar to taste. 
The beaten yolk of an egg may be stirred in and any 
flavoring preferred. Serve cold with cream. (This 
may be baked.) 



Vegetable Plum Pudding 

One-half cupful each of grated raw potato and car- 
rot, half a cupful of sugar, one-quarter of a cupful of 
finely chopped suet, an even teaspoonful of ground 
cinnamon, half an even teaspoonful of allspice, one- 
third of an even teaspoonful of salt. Take half a 
cupful of flour and sift with it an even teaspoonful of 
baking powder or half an even teaspoonful of saleratus 
dissolved in a little water ; dredge in this half a cupful 
of seeded raisins and mix all the ingredients together 
thoroughly. Put the mixture into individual cups and 
steam nearly three hours. Serve with hard sauce. 



London Pudding 

Take a well beaten egg, half a cupful of finely 
chopped suet, a cupful of seeded raisins, a cupful of 
sweet milk, an even teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, 
half an even teaspoonful of salt. Sift a heaping tea- 
spoonful of baking powder into a large cupful of flour, 
mix all the ingredients and add flour to make a stiff 
dough. Boil for two hours in two cloth bags, and 
allow for swelling. 

Hard sauce may be used. 

82 



PUDDINGS 



Spanish Pudding 

Bring to the boiling point and sweeten half a pint 
of rich milk. Take half a pound of sponge cake and 
cover it with one-quarter of a pound of grated cocoa- 
nut. Pour the milk over this and let it stand. When 
it is well soaked, stir in one or two well beaten eggs. 

Butter two pudding dishes and put an ounce or 
more of preserved ginger in them, and pour in the 
pudding. Steam for nearly two hours, and serve with 
ginger syrup. 



Snow Pudding 

Mix a tablespoonful of cornstarch with a small cup- 
ful of water and boil it ; remove and stir in the beaten 
white of an egg. Make a custard of a small cupful of 
milk, two heaping tablespoonfuls of sugar, a pinch of 
salt and the yolk of the egg. Stir thoroughly and 
cook in a double boiler. Place the snow in two dishes 
and when cold cover it with the custard. Serve cold. 

This custard may be used on fruit slices (bananas, 
etc.). 



Suet Pudding 

Take half a cupful each of chopped suet, brown 
sugar, currants and seeded raisins. Sift a large cupful 
of flour, add half an even teaspoonful of saleratus that 
has been dissolved in a little water. Mix all the 
ingredients and add an even teaspoonful of allspice 
and ground cinnamon, and a little ground cloves if 
liked, half an even teaspoonful of salt and a beaten 
egg. Pour in enough sour milk to make a stiff batter, 
and steam in loose bags for two hours. 

Serve with tart sauce. 

83 



PUDDINGS 



Southern Pudding 

Take a large cupful of flour and sift it, add half an 
even teaspoonful of baking soda that has been dissolved 
in a little water. Mix together half a cupful of mo- 
lasses, half a cupful of warm water, a cupful of 
chopped raisins and nuts mixed, half of a nutmeg 
grated, and the yolks of two eggs. Stir in the flour, 
add more flour or water to make a stiff batter, and 
steam two hours. Serve with hard sauce. 



Montreal Pudding 

Take a pudding dish, butter it and place seasoned 
fruit and nuts in it, then cover it with a batter made 
by creaming together a rounding tablespoonful of 
butter and half a cupful of sugar, a cupful of flour in 
which has been sifted a rounded teaspoonful of baking 
powder, half a teaspoonful of salt and a beaten egg. 
Stir thoroughly and pour it over the fruit. Steam it 
half an hour or more, or bake for fifteen minutes. 
Serve with fruit sauce. 



Apple Dumplings 

Make a dough as for biscuit, roll it out and cut it in 
squares. Pare thinly and core tart apples and fill the 
centers with sugar and spice. Wrap each securely 
with a square of dough and lay them in a well but- 
tered baking pan. Dot them over with butter and a 
layer of sugar and spice. Pour a cupful of boiling 
water in the pan and bake rather slowly for half an 
hour, basting several times. Serve with cream or any 
preferred sauce. 

(Currants, rhubarb, etc., may be used for dump- 
lings.) 

84 



PUDDINGS 



Apple Dumplings, Steamed 

Sift together half a pint of flour, a rounding tea- 
spoonful of baking powder and a pinch of salt. Add 
enough sweet milk to make a stiff batter. Line deep 
cups with this and fill the center with slices of sour 
apples, seasoned with plenty of sugar and ground 
cinnamon. Put more batter (or dough) on top, and 
steam for about forty-five minutes. 
Serve with cream and sugar. 



Macaroni Pudding 

Take half a cupful of macaroni that has been broken 
in small pieces, put it in half a pint of milk and simmer 
until tender. (A double boiler is best to use.) 

Mix together half a cupful of sugar, a rounded 
tablespoonful of butter and add the yolks of two well 
beaten eggs, a teaspoonful of lemon juice and a bit of 
the grated peeling. Beat the whites of the eggs stiffly 
and stir them in just before putting the mixture in a 
buttered pudding dish. Bake slowly, covering it if 
necessary. 



Sweet Potato Pudding 

Peel and grate a small raw sweet potato, stir this in 
half a pint of warm milk and boil for five minutes or 
longer. Stir in a heaping teaspoonful of butter, half a 
cupful of sugar, a little grated nutmeg, and after re- 
moving it from the fire add slowly two well beaten 
eggs, stirring the mixture at the same time. Turn it 
into a greased pudding dish and bake moderately until 
firm. Serve with any preferred sauce. 

85 



PUDDINGS 



Queen Bread Pudding 

Take a cupful of bread crumbs and soak them in 
two cupfuls of milk, add a beaten egg yolk, a rounded 
teaspoonful of butter that has been creamed with a 
heaping tablespoonful of sugar, a tablespoonful of tart 
jelly, and a little lemon or vanilla. Bake this, and 
when cool spread the top with the kind of jelly used, 
and heap on top the well beaten white of the egg, 
seasoned with sugar and flavoring. 

Fruit sauce may be used, or cream. 



Cornstarch Pudding 

Put a large cupful or more of milk into a double 
boiler; when hot add a heaping tablespoonful of sugar, 
salt, a tablespoonful of cornstarch that has been dis- 
solved in a little cold water, and the beaten whites of 
two eggs. Stir all thoroughly, cook a few minutes 
and pour into individual cups, rilling them a little 
over half full. Let it cool. Serve with a custard made 
by heating a cupful of milk, a tablespoonful of sugar 
and the beaten egg yolks, stir until it thickens, and 
flavor with a teaspoonful of vanilla. Let it cool a 
little and pour over the cornstarch pudding. 



86 



PUDDING SAUCE 

Simple Sauce No. i 

Beat to a cream half a cupful or less of butter and 
a cupful of powdered sugar. Cook in a pan with a 
cupful or more of hot water, and flavor to taste. 



Simple Sauce No. 2 

Heat a cupful of water and add half a cupful of 
sugar creamed with a rounded teaspoonful of butter 
and a rounded teaspoonful of flour. Stir constantly 



and flavor with nutmeg or vanilla. 



Simple Sauce No. 3 

Cream together three heaping tablespoonfuls of 
powdered sugar and a heaping tablespoonful of butter 
and add the well beaten white of an egg. Flavor to 
taste. 



King Sauce 

Mix with a beaten egg a wineglassful of lemon or 
other fruit juice and a rounded teaspoonful of sugar. 
Put it in a pan and heat slowly, stirring constantly. 
When thick and foamy, remove and serve at once. 
(It must not boil.) 



Easy Sauce 

Cream together half a cupful of powdered sugar and 
a rounding teaspoonful of butter, half a teaspoonful 
of vanilla, and add slowly half a cupful of rich milk. 
Put the mixture in a deep dish, set it in boiling water 
and stir constantly until smooth, then serve. 

87 



PUDDING SAUCE 



Custard Sauce 

Take a gill of milk, a rounding tablespoonful of 
sugar and an even teaspoonful of cornstarch. Add the 
beaten yolk of one egg, flavor to taste and cook until 
like thick cream. 



Orange Sauce 

Cream together two heaping tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, one rounding tablespoonful of butter and a 
rounding teaspoonful of flour. Beat until perfectly 
smooth, and add the well beaten white of one egg. 
Stir this into half a cupful of boiling water and when 
like cream remove it from the fire and add the finely 
chopped pieces of half an orange, from which the 
seeds and rind have been taken. Then serve. 



Foam Sauce 

Take a rounding tablespoonful of butter and cream 
it with two-thirds of a cupful of powdered sugar. 
Flavor it with half a teaspoonful of vanilla and an 
even tablespoonful of tart jelly or grape juice. Stir 
all thoroughly and add one-quarter of a cupful of 
boiling w r ater. Stir again and finish with the well 
beaten white of an egg. Beat until light and foamy. 
Serve at once. 



Sugar Sauce 

Mix a rounding teaspoonful of cornstarch with a 
little water and make it free from lumps. Add it 
slowly to a cupful of boiling water, stirring con- 
stantly ; then put in a cupful of sugar and a scant 
teaspoonful of flavoring. Add a well beaten egg, or 
either the white or yolk. Serve at once. 



PUDDING SAUCE 



Nut Sauce 

Take half a cupful of brown sugar and cream with 
it a piece of butter the size of an egg. Add half a 
teaspoonful of lemon or vanilla and a tablespoonful 
of hot water. Stir in a heaping tablespoonful of 
chopped nuts and the well beaten white of an egg. 



Plain Sauce 

Cream together a rounding teaspoonful of butter, 
a rounding tablespoonful of flour and two-thirds of a 
cupful of sugar. Put this into two cupfuls of boiling 
water, add any preferred flavor and let it boil a few 
minutes, stirring constantly. 



Fruit Sauce 

Take a cupful of hot water and add a cupful or less 
of the juice from any canned fruit. Sweeten to taste 
and put in a small piece of butter with a little spice, 
boil slowly a few minutes, and serve hot. 



Maple Sugar Sauce 

Break into small pieces as much sugar as desired, 
add half a cupful or more of boiling water, cook until it 
threads and stir into it a heaping tablespoonful of 
chopped nuts. 



Chocolate Sauce 

Make a paste by rubbing together two heaping 
tablespoonfuls of grated sweet chocolate and three 
tablespoonfuls of thick cream. Put it in a double 
boiler with a cupful of boiling water, stir it well and 
cook for ten or more minutes, then flavor. Serve 
cold and beat it before serving. 

89 



CAKES 

In baking cake the oven should be kept at an even 
heat. For light, thin cakes a hot oven is used. After 
the cake begins to rise it should not be moved. 

For fruit cakes and other heavy, dark cakes the 
oven should be moderately hot. Thick cakes are baked 
in pans lined with buttered paper. 



Molasses Cake 

Stir a tablespoonful of melted butter into two- 
thirds of a cupful of molasses with half a cupful of 
sugar and a well beaten egg. Dissolve half an even 
teaspoonful of saleratus in a tablespoonful of hot 
water. Stir the ingredients thoroughly and pour in 
two-thirds of a cupful of (liquid) coffee, and add about 
one and one-half cupfuls of flour. Bake in a loaf tin. 

Air Cake 

Cream together a cupful of sugar and a rounding 
tablespoonful of butter. Add a well beaten egg and a 
cupful of sweet milk. Sift a large cupful of flour 
with a rounding teaspoonful of baking powder and a 
little salt. Mix well and add a little flour if necessary 
for a medium stiff batter. 



Spice Cake 

Cream together a cupful of brown sugar and a round- 
ing tablespoonful of butter and tried-out suet mixed. 
Add half an even teaspoonful of salt, an even tea- 
spoonful each of ground cinnamon and grated nut- 
meg, half an even teaspoonful each of ground cloves, 

90 



C A K E S 

allspice and mace. Pour in half a cupful of black 
coffee and half a cupful of rich milk. Sift together 
one and a half cupfuls of flour and two rounding tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder. Stir into the flour half a 
cupful of seeded raisins, and mix all the ingredients 
together. (May be made in layers.) 



Spiced Cake (Without Eggs) 

Cream together a cupful of brown sugar and half a 
cupful of butter. Sift together a cupful of flour and 
an even teaspoonful each of ground cinnamon and 
allspice. Add to the flour half a cupful or more of 
seeded raisins or currants and a pinch of salt. Mix 
all of the ingredients together and add a cupful of 
sour milk. Dissolve an even teaspoonful of saleratus 
in a tablespoonful of hot water and beat all thor- 
oughly, adding more flour if necessary for a stiff 
batter. Bake in a loaf. 



Marble Cake 

Light Part: Cream together half a cupful of sugar 
and a heaping teaspoonful of butter. Add half a 
cupful of milk and the beaten whites of two eggs. 
Sift a rounding teaspoonful of baking powder with a 
large cupful of flour. Stir all well, adding flour or 
milk if necessary. 

Dark Part: Cream together half a cupful of brown 
sugar and a rounding teaspoonful of butter. Add one- 
quarter of a cupful each of molasses and milk, an 
even teaspoonful each of ground cinnamon and grated 
nutmeg, and half an even teaspoonful of allspice. 

91 



CAKES 

Prepare the flour as for the light part, adding half an 
even teaspoonful of saleratus dissolved in the beaten 
yolks of the eggs. Stir well together. 

Grease a cake pan and put in spoonfuls of each 
color alternately. Bake in a moderate oven, covering 
for about ten minutes, that it may not brown too 
quickly. 



Devil's Cake in Layers 

Mix one-quarter of a cupful each of grated choco- 
late, brown sugar and milk ; put in a saucepan and 
boil until like thick cream. Cream together a cupful 
of brown sugar and a rounding teaspoonful of butter. 
Add a small cupful of milk and one or two well beaten 
eggs. Flavor with lemon or vanilla. Now stir in the 
cold boiled ingredients and beat all thoroughly. Take 
half a pint of flour and sift it with a heaping teaspoon- 
ful of baking powder ; add a little milk if the batter 
is too stiff. It should be quite stiff and beaten until 
very smooth. 

Bake in thin layers and when cool put together with 
chocolate or other dark filling. 



Fruit Cake 

Cream together a cupful of sugar and half a cupful 
of butter. Add the well beaten yolks of three eggs. 
Mix together a quarter of a pound each of chopped 
seeded raisins, finely chopped citron and dried cur- 
rants (well washed). Sift a half pint of flour with a 
heaping teaspoonful of baking powder. Dredge the 
fruit in this and season with half an even teaspoonful 
of ground nutmeg, an even teaspoonful of ground 

92 



C A K E S 

cinnamon and a pinch of salt. Now stir all together 
and add the well beaten whites of the eggs. Bake in 
a moderate oven. 



Plain Layer Cake 

Cream together a cupful of sugar and half a cupful 
of butter. Add the beaten yolks of two eggs, a small 
cupful of sweet milk, or water, and one and one-half 
cupfuls of flour sifted with a rounding teaspoonful of 
baking powder and a pinch of salt. Stir well and put 
in the beaten whites last. Bake slowly in layer pans. 



White Layer Cake 

Cream together one-third of a cupful of butter and 
a large cupful of powdered sugar. Add a small cupful 
of milk and a scant teaspoonful of lemon or vanilla, 
with a pinch of salt. Sift with a cupful of flour a 
rounding teaspoonful of baking powder. Stir all to- 
gether and beat until smooth. Add the well beaten 
whites of four or five eggs and flour enough to make 
a stiff batter. 

Bake in greased layer tins and when cold put to- 
gether with any preferred filling. 



Cream Layer Cake 

Cream together a rounding tablespoonful of butter 
with one and one-half cupfuls of sugar, add a cupful 
of sweet cream, two well beaten eggs and two cupfuls 
of flour sifted with two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 
Bake in three layers. 

93 



CAKES 

Pork Cake 

Mince half a pound of fat salt pork, pour over it 
half a cupful of boiling water, add half a pint each of 
brown sugar and New Orleans molasses. Stir in half 
a pound each of chopped seeded raisins and chopped 
stoned dates, a heaping teaspoonful of finely shaved 
citron, an even teaspoonful of ground cinnamon, half 
an even teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, allspice and 
cloves. Sift a large cupful of flour, add half an even 
teaspoonful of saleratus that has been dissolved in a 
little water, and a pinch of salt. Stir until smooth, 
adding sifted flour to make a stiff batter. Bake in a 
loaf. 



Ribbon Cake 

Take two cupfuls of sugar, half a cupful of butter 
and cream them together. Add a small cupful of milk 
and three beaten eggs. Stir in two cupfuls of flour 
sifted with two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Make 
three portions of the mixture. To one portion add 
fruit juice (cherry is good for coloring) ; to another 
add one tablespoonful of dark molasses, raisins, cur- 
rants, spices, etc. 

Bake in three greased layer tins and put together 
with any preferred rilling. 



White Fruit Cake 

Cream together half a cupful of butter and a cupful 
of sugar and half a cupful of sweet milk. Sift together 
a heaping cupful of flour and a rounding teaspoonful 
of baking powder. Take half a pound each of chopped 
figs, seeded raisins and blanched almonds. Stir the 

94 



C A K E S 

fruit into the flour and mix all the ingredients together 
thoroughly. Add a spoonful of grated cocoanut and a 
little finely shaved citron. Beat the whites of five 
eggs and stir them in last, with a pinch of salt. 
Bake in a loaf pan for nearly two hours. 



Small Fruit Cake 

Cream together a cupful of brown sugar and half a 
cupful of butter. Add two well beaten eggs, two- 
thirds of a cupful of sour cream, an even teaspoonful 
of ground cinnamon, half an even teaspoonful each of 
grated nutmeg and ground cloves (allspice may be 
used instead of cloves). Put in an even teaspoonful 
of saleratus that has been dissolved in a little water. 

Take a cupful of seeded raisins, cut them in two, 
and mix them in the flour with half a cupful of broken 
walnut meats and a teaspoonful of shaved citron. 

Beat all the ingredients until very smooth and bake 
slowly in a loaf pan. 



Economy Cake 

Cream together a cupful of sugar and half a cupful 
of shortening composed of bacon drippings and tried- 
out suet. Add the well beaten yolk of an egg and a 
pinch of salt. Sift a cupful of flour with two rounding 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Stir all together and 
pour in a small cupful of milk, or milk and water, 
adding any preferred flavoring, and flour enough to 
make a good batter. Stir until very smooth. 

Beat the egg white until very stiff, add sugar and 
flavoring, and use it to frost the cold cake. 

95 



CAKES 

Plain Jelly Cake 

Cream together a heaping cupful of powdered sugar 
and half a cupful of butter. Sift a heaping cupful of 
flour with a rounding teaspoonful of baking powder 
and a dash of salt. Add the well beaten yolks of three 
eggs and beat all the ingredients together until very 
smooth. Beat the whites of the eggs until very stiff 
and stir them in lightly the last thing before baking. 
Bake in greased layer tins and when cold put together 
with jelly. 



Lemon Cake 

Cream together a cupful of sugar and half a cupful 
of shortening. Sift a large cupful of flour, add an even 
teaspoonful of saleratus that has been dissolved, and a 
dash of salt. Stir all together and pour in half a 
cupful of sour milk, a tablespoonful of lemon juice and 
a bit of grated rind. Beat the yolks of two eggs and 
the white of one ; stir all together thoroughly, adding 
flour if necessary. Bake slowly. 

The top may be frosted with the remaining white 
of the eggs. 



Currant Cake 

Sift together two cupfuls of flour and a heaping 
teaspoonful of baking powder, with a pinch of salt. 
Cream together half a cupful of sugar and the same 
amount of shortening. Take a small cupful of cur- 
rants that have been washed and dried, stir them in 
the flour, then stir all the ingredients together with 
two well beaten eggs and half a cupful of sweet milk 
(or more, if too stiff). Bake in greased tart shell 
pans rather than muffin pans. 

96 



CAKES 

Chocolate Sponge Cake 

Sift together a large cupful of flour and a teaspoon- 
ful of baking powder with half an even teaspoonful 
of salt, an even teaspoonful of grated nutmeg and a 
teaspoonful of orange juice. Add a square of choco- 
late, melted, and two well beaten eggs. Stir thor- 
oughly and pour in half a cupful of boiling water. 
Beat all together until smooth. 



Cream Sponge Cake 

Beat thoroughly the yolks of two eggs and add a 
cupful of sugar and a pinch of salt. 

Sift together a cupful of flower with a rounding 
teaspoonful of baking powder. Mix all the ingredients, 
pour in half a cupful of sweet cream and stir in lightly 
the well beaten whites of the eggs. Add a little flour 
if necessary. 



Sponge Cake 

Beat the yolks of two eggs until very light and add 
a cupful of sugar. Sift a cupful of flour with a tea- 
spoonful of baking powder. Add the stiffly beaten 
whites of the eggs to the yolks and sugar, stir in the 
flour with a pinch of salt, and last of all half a cupful 
of boiling water, stirring at the time. 



Pineapple Cake 

Cream half a cupful of butter and a large cupful of 
confectioners' sugar, add a cupful of minced pineapple 
and two well beaten eggs. Sift together a cupful of 
flour and a rounding teaspoonful of baking powder. 
Mix all the ingredients and pour in half a cupful of 
milk. Make a thick batter, adding the necessary flour. 

97 



CAKES 

Chocolate Cake No. i 

Cook together one-half cupful each of grated choco- 
late, milk and sugar with the yolk of an egg. Boil 
until thick and flavor with vanilla. Let it cool. 

Cream together half a cupful each of butter and 
sugar, add a gill of sour milk, two cupfuls of flour, two 
beaten eggs and an even teaspoonful of saleratus dis- 
solved in a little hot water. Stir the boiled mixture 
into the batter and bake in layers. Put the cake 
together with a white filling. 



Chocolate Cake No. 2 

Cream together a cupful of sugar and a piece of 
butter the size of an egg. Add three well beaten 
eggs, a heaping tablespoonful of grated chocolate and 
a cupful of milk. Beat thoroughly and stir in a cupful 
of flour that has been sifted with a rounding teaspoon- 
ful of baking powder, a pinch of salt, and flavoring. 
Add flour if necessary and beat until very smooth. 
Bake in a medium oven. 



Jelly Roll 

Sift together a cupful of flour and a rounding tea- 
spoonful of baking powder. Take a cupful of sugar 
and cream it with a rounding teaspoonful of butter. 
Add two well beaten eggs (the whites beaten sepa- 
rately and added last), a pinch of salt, an even tea- 
spoonful of lemon juice and a spoonful or two of 
water. 

Beat thoroughly and when smooth bake in a thin 
layer in a long square-cornered pan. Grease the pan 
and sprinkle it with a little flour. Turn out the cake 

98 



CAKES 

on a napkin, spread it with jelly while still warm, and 
roll. 



Eggless Cake 

Cream together a cupful of granulated sugar and 
half a cupful of butter. Add a cupful of sour milk, 
half a cupful of cocoa (dry), an even teaspoonful of 
saleratus dissolved in hot water, a pinch of salt, and 
flavoring. Mix with enough sifted flour to make a 
stiff batter. 



Puff Cake 

Cream together half a cupful of butter and a cupful 
of sugar. Sift together a cupful of flour, a heaping 
teaspoonful of baking powder and a third of a cupful 
of cornstarch, adding flavoring and a pinch of salt. 

Stir all the ingredients together and add the stiffly 
beaten whites of five eggs. Bake in a slow oven. 
Do not open the oven for fifteen minutes, and then 
carefully, without jarring the cake. 



Luncheon Cake 

Dissolve half an even teaspoonful of saleratus in a 
little hot water, stir it in a cupful of molasses with a 
rounding teaspoonful of ground cinnamon, a table- 
spoonful of melted butter, a pinch of salt and a spoon- 
ful of tart fruit juice. Pour in half a cupful of water 
and stir in a well beaten egg. Add sifted flour enough 
for a soft batter and bake slowly. Serve warm. 



Shortcake (Fruit) 

Cream together half a cupful each of butter and 
sugar, add a well beaten egg, a cupful of sweet milk 

99 

634319 



CAKES 

and a cupful of flour into which has been sifted a 
rounding teaspoonful of baking powder and a pinch of 
salt. Use more or less flour to make a soft batter. 
Bake in layer tins in a hot oven. Spread mashed and 
sugared fruit between the layers and whole berries or 
fruit slices on top. 



Orange Shortcake 

Sift together a large cupful of flour, a rounding 
teaspoonful of baking powder and a pinch of salt. 
Mix with a piece of butter the size of a walnut. (Cut 
it into the flour.) Add milk enough to make a dough 
that will roll out. Bake in one piece and split it open, 
spread it with butter, then with small pieces of orange, 
sweetened to taste. Cover with a meringue or soft 
custard. Other fruit may be used. 



Strawberry Shortcake 

Take a rich sponge cake and slice; spread with 
whole berries and sweeten with sugar. Make as many 
layers as desired, and cover all with mashed straw- 
berry sauce. 



Steamed Shortcake 

Take a large cupful of flour and sift with a rounding 
teaspoonful of baking powder. Cut into it a piece of 
butter the size of a walnut, a pinch of salt and enough 
sweet milk to make a dough to roll out. Line a small 
round pudding dish, sprinkle on this a thick layer of 
blueberries, and sugar to taste. Put on the second 
crust and more berries, then the top. Steam nearly 
tw r o hours, and serve with hard sauce. 

100 



CAKE FILLING 

Coffee Filling No. i 

Boil a cupful of sugar with half a cupful of strong 
coffee. When like syrup let it cool. Then beat into 
it a large half cupful of thick cream and the well 
beaten yolk of an egg. 



Coffee Filling No. 2 

Take a cupful of powdered sugar and cream it with 
a rounding teaspoonful of butter. Add a teaspoonful 
of vanilla, a tablespoonful of cocoa and four table- 
spoonfuls of strong coffee. 



Cocoanut Filling 

Beat the whites of two eggs until very stiff, then 
beat in a little sugar gradually (as when making 
frosting) and spread it on the cake, then sprinkle with 
shredded cocoanut. Finish the top in the same way 
but with more cocoanut. 



Plum Filling 

Boil a large cupful of sugar with half a cupful of 
water. Beat until very stiff the white of an egg, and, 
still beating, pour in the syrup. When thick enough 
add pecans, figs and raisins (all well chopped) to the 
amount of a small cupful. 



Caramel Filling No. i 

Boil a cupful of sugar with half a cupful of water. 
Dip into it with a fork and when it forms a thread 

101 



CAKE FILLING 



beat into it gradually the very stiffly beaten white of 
an egg (or two). When cool flavor with vanilla and 
two tablespoonfuls of caramel syrup. 



Caramel Filling No. 2 

Boil together a cupful of brown sugar, half a cupful 
of milk, with an even teaspoonful of butter (or cream 
without the butter). Try a drop in cold water, and 
when it thickens remove from the fire and stir in a 
teaspoonful of flavoring. 



Caramel Filling No. 3 

Boil a cupful of sugar and a cupful of sour cream 
until like syrup. Remove from the fire and beat until 
cool, adding flavoring. 



Maple Filling 

Boil half a cupful of maple syrup, or melt maple 
sugar in half a cupful of hot water. Beat very stiff 
the white of an egg, add a pinch of salt and pour in 
the syrup, beating continually. Let it cool before 
spreading it on the cake. 



Puff Filling 

Make a paste of a heaping teaspoonful of cornstarch 
and a little milk. Beat the whites of two eggs, adding 
gradually half a cupful of granulated sugar. Heat a 
pint of milk or less with a piece of butter the size of 
a hazelnut; add a pinch of salt. Stir into this the 
paste, taking care to keep it from lumps. Still stirring, 
pour in the beaten whites and a little flavoring. Add 
a little sugar to taste, and when thick remove from the 
fire. 



102 



CAKE FILLING 



Pineapple Filling 

Heat a small cupful of juice from fresh or canned 
pineapple. Mix a teaspoonful of cornstarch with half 
a cupful of confectioners' sugar and add it to the 
juice. When thick remove it from the fire and let it 
cool a little, then fill the cake. 



Cream Filling No. i 

Heat three gills of milk, adding a pinch each of 
salt and saleratus. Beat an egg and stir into it half a 
cupful of sugar and two heaping tablespoonfuls of 
flour. Stir well and add gradually the hot milk. Put 
in a teaspoonful of lemon juice and return it to the 
fire; stir well and remove it when it is thick enough. 



Cream Filling No. 2 

Melt a heaping tablespoonful of butter, stir into it a 
small cupful of powdered sugar, one-third of a cupful 
of thick cream and half a teaspoonful of vanilla. Stir 
thoroughly and add more sugar to taste. 



Cream Filling No. 3 

Boil one and one-half cupfuls of granulated sugar 
with two-thirds of a cupful of water. When cooked 
to a syrup pour on to the stiffly beaten white of an 
egg, beating constantly. Flavor. 



Nut Cream Filling 

Take a large cupful of cream, a rounding teaspoon- 
ful of sugar, a pinch of salt, the beaten yolk of an 
egg; heat, and thicken with a little moistened corn- 
starch. Add half a cupful of chopped nuts and 
flavoring. 

103 



CAKE FILLING 



Fruit Cream Filling 

Whip a large cupful of cream, sweeten and flavor it 
to taste. Mix with finely chopped orange, or any 
preferred fruit. 

This must be served at once. 



Fruit Filling 

The well beaten white of an egg, sweetened and 
flavored. Mix in finely chopped fruit. 
The same recipe is good with nuts instead of fruit. 



Banana Filling 

Mash a banana and stir in powdered sugar until it 
is smooth like cream. Spread it on when the cake is 
nearly cold. 



Apple Filling 

Well cooked apple sauce beaten until smooth with 
the stiffly beaten white of an egg. Add sugar to taste 
and lemon juice for flavoring. 



Gold Filling 

Heat a cupful of brown sugar and half a cupful of 
water. Add a spoonful of orange juice and the grated 
rind of half an orange. Boil all together and when 
like syrup remove from the fire and stir in slowly the 
beaten yolk of an egg. 



Chocolate Filling No. i 

Maple syrup mixed with grated chocolate and well 
beaten. Flavor with grated nutmeg. 

104 



CAKE FILLING 



Chocolate Filling No. 2 

Mix the well beaten white of an egg with a cupful 
of powdered sugar. Stir in two heaping tablespoon- 
fuls of grated chocolate. Beat thoroughly. 



Chocolate-Cinnamon Filling 

Take a heaping tablespoonful of grated chocolate, 
half an even teaspoonful of ground cinnamon and a 
small cupful of powdered sugar. Mix thoroughly, 
adding milk slowly until thin enough to spread on 
the cake. 



Lemon Filling 

Beat the whites of two eggs quite stiff, adding sugar 
as desired. Stir in the grated rind of a lemon, and the 
juice. If too thin add more sugar. Do not cook, but 
spread it between the cake layers. 



105 



PIE 

Pie Crust No. i 

Take two heaping tablespoonfuls of shortening, have 
it ice cold; cut it in bits and mix with two cupfuls of 
flour and a pinch of salt. Add ice water as needed, 
roll it out and sprinkle over it a spoonful of flour sifted 
with half a teaspoonful of baking powder ; roll lightly. 



Pie Crust No. 2 

Rich pie crust may be made by cutting a cupful of 
butter (or half butter and half of other shortening) 
into two cupfuls of flour in which has been sifted a 
teaspoonful of baking powder and a pinch of salt. 
Mix with half a cupful of ice water. 



Under Crust 

Shells for tarts or pies may be made by turning the 
pan upside down and laying the crust neatly over the 
outside, if preferred. All the ingredients for pie crust 
should be very cold; put together lightly and handle 
as little as possible. 

Four heaping tablespoonfuls of flour, a pinch of 
salt, half an even teaspoonful of baking powder sifted 
with the flour. Cut in small bits a heaping table- 
spoonful of shortening, mix it with the flour, and add 
enough cold water to make the crust of the right 
consistency. 

In making juicy fruit pies mix a spoonful of flour 
with the sugar used in sweetening. 

1 06 



PIE 

Puff-paste 

Take equal amounts of flour and shortening. Sift 
the flour twice, use a silver knife to stir in a little 
ice water, rub the rolling pin with flour and roll out 
the paste. Dot it with one-fourth of the amount of 
shortening, sprinkle lightly with flour enough to keep 
the materials from sticking. Roll, and dot with short- 
ening. Repeat. Brush the paste with the white of an 
egg, each time the shortening is placed upon it, and 
handle all very lightly. 



Custard Pie 

Beat thoroughly the yolks of two or three eggs, 
add half a cupful of sugar, a pinch of salt and a tea- 
spoonful of flavoring. Heat two small cupfuls of 
milk to the boiling point and stir this mixture in 
slowly. If a dough crust is used, brush it over with a 
little of the egg white, or pour the custard into a 
baked crust and put in the oven until the custard is 
stiff and a little brown. 

(Before putting the pie in the oven, cinnamon or 
nutmeg may be sprinkled over the top. A meringue 
may be made of the egg whites and heaped on top, or 
not, as preferred.) 



Brown Custard Pie 

Melt together two cupfuls of brown sugar, half a 
cupful of water and half a cupful of butter. Let it 
boil a minute and pour in half a cupful of rich milk. 
Now stir in the well beaten yolks of three eggs and a 
teaspoonful of fruit juice. Pour the mixture into a 

107 



PIE 

ready baked crust and sprinkle the top with grated 
nutmeg. 

Bake until the custard is firm. 



Rhubarb Pie 

Take a cupful of rhubarb that has been peeled and 
cut in small pieces, add a half cupful of water and 
let it stew for a short time. Put in a cupful of sugar 
in which a large spoonful of flour has been mixed, a 
well beaten egg, a pinch of salt and a teaspoonful of 
lemon juice. 

Bake with two crusts; perforate the top crust in a 
fancy pattern. 



Pumpkin Pie No. i 

Take a cupful of stewed pumpkin and put it through 
a sieve ; add half a cupful of sugar, two well beaten 
eggs, half a nutmeg, grated, half of an even teaspoon- 
ful of mace and a pinch of salt. Mix thoroughly and 
add two cupfuls of rich milk. Bake until firm and 
brown. 



Pumpkin Pie No. 2 

Take a large cupful of stewed pumpkin, half a cupful 
of thin cream, two well beaten eggs, half a cupful of 
sugar in which has been stirred a heaping teaspoonful 
of flour, a pinch of salt, a pinch of saleratus and half 
a teaspoonful each of ginger, allspice and ground 
cinnamon. A little milk may be added. 



"Mammy's" Pumpkin Pie 

Take a large cupful of stewed pumpkin and half a 
cupful of dark molasses, beat it well and pour in a 

108 



PIE 

small cupful of cream. Add a well beaten egg, an 
even teaspoonful of ginger, a pinch each of salt and 
saleratus (dissolved), and half an even teaspoonful of 
ground cinnamon. Pour into a baked crust and bake 
until firm and a rich brown. 



Cocoanut Pie 

Put into a double boiler half a pint of sweet milk. 
Make a paste of a heaping tablespoonful of sugar, a 
heaping teaspoonful of cornstarch and a little milk 
or water. Stir this smoothly into the hot milk and 
add the well beaten yolks of two eggs. When thick 
stir in quarter of a box of cocoanut, remove it from 
the fire and stir in lightly the well beaten whites of 
the eggs, and a teaspoonful of flavoring. Pour the 
mixture into a baked crust and put in the oven until 
firm. 



Potato Cocoanut Pie 

Take half a pint of milk and put in one-quarter of a 
cupful of cocoanut to soak. Take half a cupful of 
mashed potatoes and mix with two well beaten egg 
yolks. Add a rounding teaspoonful of chopped butter, 
the same amount of sugar, and a pinch of salt. Stir 
thoroughly and add the milk, and bake. 

Make a meringue of the well beaten egg whites, 
adding sugar and flavoring to taste, spread it on the 
pie, and brown. Shredded cocoanut may be sprinkled 
onto the meringue. 



Banana Pie 

Take a baked under crust and place sliced bananas 
in the bottom. Make a custard by stirring together 

109 



PIE 

two-thirds of a cupful of sugar, the well beaten yolk 
of an egg, a heaping teaspoonful of butter, a dash of 
salt and a little flavoring. Cook in half a pint of 
boiling water until thick and when cool pour it over 
the bananas. Make a meringue of the whites for the 
top, and brown slightly in the oven, or not, as pre- 
ferred. 

Lemon Pie 

Cook together a rounding tablespoonful of butter, 
the juice and grated rind of one lemon, a well beaten 
egg, a cupful of sugar in which a heaping tablespoon- 
ful of flour or cornstarch has been stirred, and a 
cupful of water. Let it boil and when thick pour the 
mixture into a (fresh or baked) crust, bake, and add 
a meringue or frosting on top ; return to the oven and 
brown slightly. 



Lemon Cream Pie No. i 

Beat the yolks of four eggs and the whites of two, 
add two-thirds of a cupful of granulated sugar and a 
cupful of cream. Stir well and add the juice and 
grated rind of one lemon. Pour this into an uncooked 
crust of rich paste. 

Bake about twenty minutes. 

Beat the remaining whites, adding sugar to taste, 
spread this on the pie and brown lightly. 



Lemon Cream Pie No. 2 

Cream a tablespoonful of butter with a cupful of 
sugar. Dissolve a heaping tablespoonful of cornstarch 
in a little cold water. Stir over the fire until smooth, 

no 



PIE 

then add the butter and sugar. Mix well and then 
remove from the fire. When it is cool add the juice 
and grated rind of one large lemon and a well beaten 
egg. Line a pie plate with good pastry, pour in the 
mixture and bake. When done cover with a meringue, 
return to the oven and brown. Cool slowly. 



Cream Pie 

Heat enough milk to fill the pie tin. Beat together 
three rounding tablespoonfuls of sugar, the yolks of 
three eggs and three spoonfuls of water. Stir until 
smooth. Remove from the fire and add a rounding 
teaspoonful of butter, and vanilla flavoring. Pour 
this into a baked crust and bake. Beat and sweeten 
the egg whites, flavor, spread on top of the pie, and 
brown. 



Chocolate Pie 

Add dissolved chocolate to the recipe for either 
custard or cream pie, and omit any other flavoring. 



Cherry Cream Pie 

Mix thoroughly half a cupful of sugar and a heaping 
teaspoonful of cornstarch. Stir into this the well 
beaten yolks of two eggs and the pitted cherries; whip 
in the well beaten whites and put the mixture in an 
under crust and bake. 



Apricot Pie 

In a ready baked crust place a thick layer of canned 
apricots, sprinkle over with almonds and a cup of 
sugar. Bake and serve with a meringue. 

Ill 



PIE 

Raspberry Pie 

Put an under crust of puff paste in a pie dish, and 
fill the dish nearly full with raspberries. Sweeten to 
taste with granulated sugar, place on the upper crust 
and pinch securely at the edges. 

A little flour sprinkled on the berries before adding 
the top crust is useful to prevent the juice from run- 
ning. Bake until the crust is well done. 

This may be made into a cream pie by taking a tea- 
spoonful of cornstarch, wetting it with cold milk and 
sweetening with a heaping tablespoonful of sugar. 
Mix this with a cupful of milk, beat and cook. When 
cool stir in the beaten whites of one or two eggs. Pour 
this on top of the sections of pie when ready to serve, 
or lift the top crust and pour it on the berries, and 
sprinkle the top crust with powdered sugar. 



Nut Pie 

Mix thoroughly a cupful of sugar and a rounding 
tablespoonful of flour. Add the beaten yolks of two 
or three eggs and a cupful of milk. Boil this mixture, 
stirring until it thickens. When cool add a small 
cupful of chopped walnuts and any preferred flavor. 

Bake with an under crust and serve with a meringue 
made from the beaten whites of the eggs. 



Currant Pie 

Mix together a small cupful of currants, half a 
cupful (or more) of sugar, an even teaspoonful of 
ground cinnamon or other spice, and a beaten egg. 
Bake slowly with two crusts. 

112 



PIE 

Mock Cherry Pie 

Take a cupful of cranberries, half a cupful of seeded 
raisins, and pour over them half a cupful of hot water. 
Take a cupful of sugar and stir into it a rounding 
teaspoonful of flour and cream, with a rounding tea- 
spoonful of butter. Mix all the ingredients thoroughly 
and flavor with vanilla. Bake between two crusts for 
about twenty minutes. 



Grape Pie 

Take ripe Concord grapes, wash them, and fill a pie 
plate that has been lined with paste. Use half a 
cupful of sugar to a cupful of grapes. Put on an upper 
crust and bake. Powder with sugar. 



Mince Pie 

Boil two pounds of beef and add salt when nearly 
done ; let it cool in the liquor. Skim off the fat, chop 
the meat thoroughly, and add twice the amount of 
chopped tart apples. Add the fat and enough of the 
liquor to mix well. Put in a pound of seeded raisins 
cut in half, a pound of well washed currants, half a 
pound of citron cut in tiny pieces, a tablespoonful 
each of ground cloves and allspice, two tablespoonfuls 
of ground cinnamon, a tablespoonful of mace, one of 
salt, one of grated nutmeg; mix thoroughly and 
sweeten with about two and one-half pounds of brown 
sugar. Stir into it a pint of boiled cider. Heat all 
and seal in fruit jars. 

When used, thin with fruit juice and bake with two 
crusts. 



PIE 

Green Tomato Pie 

Take a piepan and line it with a rich puff paste. 
Slice green tomatoes and arrange them on the paste 
in a thick even layer, the slices overlapping. Take a 
cupful of sugar and sprinkle it over the tomatoes, and 
about an even teaspoonful each of grated nutmeg and 
ground cinnamon. Dot it all over with small bits of 
butter, pour over all two tablespoonfuls of cider 
vinegar, and sprinkle flour over all before adding the 
top crust. 



Carrot Pie 

Put a large cupful of stewed carrots through a 
coarse sieve and add a cupful of hot milk, half a cup- 
ful of sugar, a pinch of salt, half an even teaspoonful 
of ginger, an even teaspoonful of ground cinnamon, 
half an even teaspoonful of allspice and mix thor- 
oughly with a well beaten egg 

Bake with one crust. 



Apple Cream Pie 

Make an under crust of pastry and leave a high rim 
around the edge of the pan. Stew three tart apples, 
put them through a sieve and add butter the size of a 
large walnut. The yolks of two or three eggs beaten 
with half a cupful of sugar (or more), a tablespoonful 
of lemon juice, a bit of the rind may be used also. 
Stir all together thoroughly. Add the stiffly beaten 
egg whites, pour into the crust and bake. 

Whipped cream may be used when serving, or a 
meringue of egg whites. 

114 



MISCELLANEOUS DESSERTS 

Cookies No. i 

Sift a large cupful of flour. Add a pinch of salt, 
a heaping tablespoonful of butter cut into small bits. 
Dissolve an even teaspoonful of saleratus in a little 
water and stir it into a cupful of sour cream. Mix all 
the ingredients together with flour enough for a soft 
dough. Roll out and sprinkle with granulated sugar; 
run the roller over this, cut out in any desired pattern 
and bake. 



Cookies No. 2 

Cream together half a cupful of butter, a teaspoonful 
of lard and a cupful of sugar. Sift a cupful of flour 
with two rounding teaspoonfuls of baking powder, and 
add a pinch of salt. Stir all the ingredients together 
with a cupful of sweet milk and enough flour to make 
the dough of the consistency to roll out. 

Sugar may be sprinkled over the dough before cut- 
ting out. 



Cookies No. 3 

One cupful of powdered sugar, half a cupful of 
chopped almonds, an even teaspoonful of ground cinna- 
mon, an even tablespoonful of grated bitter chocolate 
and the whites of two eggs. Beat all together thor- 
oughly and add a pinch of salt. Drop with a spoon on 
buttered paper, and bake slowly. 



MISCELLANEOUS DESSERTS 

Cookies No. 4 

Cream together a cupful of sugar and a lump of 
butter the size of an egg ; two eggs, well beaten. Sift 
together two cupfuls of flour and a heaping teaspoon- 
ful of baking powder ; add a pinch of salt. 

Well washed currants dredged in flour may be 
added, or chopped nuts. 

Combine the ingredients and add sweet milk enough 
to make a dough that will roll out; cut it in any 
desired pattern and bake. 

(Spice or flavoring may be used instead of the cur- 
rants.) 



Oatmeal Cookies 

Cream together half a cupful each of sugar and 
shortening. Sift together a cupful of flour and a round- 
ing teaspoonful of baking powder. Take a cupful of 
dry oatmeal, half a cupful each of chopped nuts and 
seeded raisins. Mix all together and add half an even 
teaspoonful of salt and water enough to make a stiff 
dough. Drop with a spoon on buttered tins and spread 
it out thin. 



Ginger Cookies 

One small cupful of shortening, one cupful of dark 
molasses, one cupful of water, an even teaspoonful 
each of ginger, dissolved saleratus, salt and cinnamon. 
Add flour enough to make a dough that may be rolled 
out thin. 



Ginger Snaps No. i 

Cream together a cupful of sugar and a cupful of 
shortening (butter and lard) ; add a cupful of dark 

116 



MISCELLANEOUS DESSERTS 

molasses, half a cupful of boiling water in which has 
been dissolved an even teaspoonful of baking soda, an 
even tablespoonful each of ground cinnamon and 
ginger, an even teaspoonful of ground cloves and 
enough flour to make a stiff dough. Roll thin, and 
bake in a hot oven. 



Ginger Snaps No. 2 

Cream together a cupful of sugar and half a cupful 
of shortening, add a well beaten egg, a cupful of 
molasses, half a cupful of strong hot coffee in which a 
teaspoonful of saleratus has been dissolved, an even 
teaspoonful each of ginger, cinnamon (or nutmeg) and 
cloves. Add flour to make a stiff dough. Roll it thin, 
cut into shapes, and bake in a hot oven. 



Doughnuts No. i 

Cream together a cupful of sugar and a rounding 
tablespoonful of butter, beat two eggs and add a 
cupful of thick sour milk, a little more than an even 
teaspoonful of saleratus dissolved in a little water, 
half an even teaspoonful of salt, an even teaspoonful 
of grated nutmeg and enough flour to make as soft a 
dough as can be rolled out, about an inch thick. Cut, 
stretch and twist lightly into shape and fry in deep 
hot fat. 

A slice of raw potato will keep the fat clear. 



Doughnuts No. 2 

Cream together half a cupful of butter and a cupful 
of sugar, beat two eggs and add with half a cupful of 
sour milk, an even teaspoonful of mixed cinnamon and 

117 



MISCELLANEOUS DESSERTS 

nutmeg and a pinch of salt. Dissolve an even tea- 
spoonful of saleratus in a little water, mix all together 
and add enough flour to make a dough that can be 
rolled out. Cut into shapes and fry. 



Doughnuts No. 3 

One cupful of sugar with a rounding teaspoonful 
of lard, a pinch of salt, one beaten egg, half a teaspoon- 
ful of grated nutmeg, a cupful of sweet milk and one 
teaspoonful of baking powder sifted with half a cupful 
of flour. Stir all together and add just enough flour to 
make a dough that will roll out. Fry in deep fat. 



Spoon Cake 

Sift a pint of flour with two rounding teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder. Chop into this a rounding table- 
spoonful of shortening, half an even teaspoonful of 
salt, half a cupful of sugar and a cupful of cleaned cur- 
rants. Add enough sweet milk to make a soft dough. 
Dip a spoonful each into well greased gem pans. Bake 
quickly. 

Pop-Overs 

Sift together a large cupful of flour and a rounding 
teaspoonful of baking powder. Add a pinch of salt, a 
well beaten egg and a pint of milk stirred in gradually. 
Beat steadily and add more flour if necessary. Grease 
gem pans and fill them half full of batter. Bake quickly 
and serve hot. 



Gingerbread 

Cream together a cupful of shortening and half a 
cupful of sugar, add a cupful of molasses, an even tea- 

118 



MISCELLANEOUS DESSERTS 

spoonful each of cinnamon and ginger, half an even 
teaspoonful of salt. Mix thoroughly and pour in a 
cupful of boiling water in which a rounding teaspoon- 
ful of saleratus has been dissolved. Stir in flour 
enough for a dough and bake in a large pan for thirty 
or forty minutes. 



Soft Gingerbread 

One small cupful of New Orleans molasses, a round- 
ing tablespoonful of beef and bacon drippings, half an 
even teaspoonful of salt, an even teaspoonful of ginger, 
half a cupful of boiling water poured on a teaspoonful 
of saleratus. Mix thoroughly and add two cupfuls of 
sifted flour. Bake slowly. 



Raisin Gingerbread 

Mix together a cupful each of shortening, brown 
sugar and dark molasses. Add half a cupful of hot 
water (or coffee) in which has been dissolved a 
teaspoonful of saleratus, an even teaspoonful each of 
cinnamon, allspice and nutmeg, two or three well 
beaten eggs and two (or more) cupfuls of flour. Stir 
in a cupful of seeded raisins that have been dredged 
in flour. 



Cherry Tarts 

Take a small, deep baking dish and fill it with stoned 
cherries, cover them with sugar to taste and sprinkle 
with flour and dots of butter. Put on a top of pastry 
and bake until brown. 

119 



MISCELLANEOUS DESSERTS 

Berry Tarts 

Line individual cake tins with a short pie crust, bake 
them and when cold fill with almost any fruit, black- 
berries, raspberries, blueberries, etc., that have been 
cooked and sweetened. 



Peach Tarts 

Fill pastry shells with sliced peaches, sprinkle with 
sugar and put a spoonful of whipped cream on top of 
each. 



Stuffed Dates 

Remove the pits from dates and fill the hollows with 
chopped nuts. A filling may be made by beating the 
white of an egg with plenty of sugar, stuffing the 
dates and rolling them in powdered sugar. 



Prune Souffle 

Soak a dozen large prunes and stew them until 
tender. Remove the pits and chop the prunes into 
small pieces. Beat the whites of four eggs with two 
rounding tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar. Whip all 
the ingredients together and bake slowly in a buttered 
pudding dish. Serve immediately with whipped cream. 



Apple Snow 

Put a cupful of apple sauce through a sieve. Sweeten 
to taste and flavor with lemon juice. Add the unbeaten 
whites of two eggs, and beat all with an egg beater for 
ten minutes or longer. When light pile on a cold dish 
and serve. 

120 



MISCELLANEOUS DESSERTS 

Apple Float 

Stew green apples until soft, add sugar, put in a 
dish and pour over it a custard. Pile on top beaten egg 
whites. Serve cold. Flavor with lemon. 



Floating Island 

Take a cupful of rich cream, sweeten it to taste and 
stir in a little fruit juice to color it. Spread slices of 
cake with marmalade, put them in a dish and pour the 
pink cream over them. Pile whipped cream on top. 
Flavor the whipped cream with any desired flavoring. 



Cup Custard 

Beat two eggs and mix with half a cupful of sugar, 
half a teaspoonful of vanilla, a pinch of salt, adding 
slowly two cupfuls of milk. Pour the mixture into 
cups, put grated nutmeg on top and set them into 
boiling water and cook for ten or fifteen minutes. 
When the custard is firm, set the cups into a pan of 
cold water. When ready to serve put a bit of jelly 
on each. 



Baked Custard 

Beat an egg, add a cupful of scalded milk while still 
hot, and sweeten to taste. Pour this into two custard 
dishes and grate nutmeg over each. Set the dishes in 
a pan of warm water, put it in a moderate oven and 
bake slowly. Do not let the water boil. (Use fresh 
milk.) 



Frosted Fruit 

Take cherries or any small fruit, or sections of 
oranges or other large fruit. Beat the white of an 

121 



MISCELLANEOUS DESSERTS 

egg with sugar to a stiff frosting and dip the fruit in 
it. When thoroughly covered, roll in powdered sugar, 
then lay the fruit on oiled paper until the coat hardens. 



Fruit Custard 

Peel and cut a large orange into small pieces and 
sweeten. Make a custard with the yolk of an egg, a 
pinch of salt, a cupful of sweet milk, a little vanilla 
flavoring, a rounding teaspoonful each of flour and 
sugar mixed together. Cook until smooth. Arrange 
the orange in two dishes, pour over them the cool 
custard. Beat the egg white, add sugar and heap on 
top. Serve. 



Fruit Dainty 

Peel and cut into small pieces an orange, a small 
banana, a few strawberries cut in halves, add a table- 
spoonful of lemon juice. Sweeten to taste and stir 
lightly. Take half a package of orange gelatine and 
let it dissolve in a cupful of hot water. Stir thor- 
oughly, and when cool put in the fruit. Serve it in a 
glass dish and sprinkle with shredded cocoanut. Place 
in the refrigerator until cold. 



Coffee Custard 

Thoroughly mix the yolks of two or three eggs 
with a rounding tablespoonful of sugar and a pinch of 
salt. Add a cupful of hot milk, and stir constantly 
while cooking. When the mixture thickens, remove 
it from the fire, and while still warm stir into it a 
cupful of strong black coffee. Beat all together until 
creamy and pour it into the custard cups. Serve it 
with whipped cream piled on top. 

122 



MISCELLANEOUS DESSERTS 

Cream Puffs 

Melt a quarter of a pound of butter in half a pint of 
boiling water, as this boils stir in slowly a cupful of 
flour. Stir steadily until the flour no longer sticks to 
the sides of the tin. Remove it from the fire and when 
cool, whip in, a little at a time, four eggs beaten very 
light. Set the mixture on ice for an hour. Line pans 
with buttered paper and drop the mixture by even 
spoonfuls, far enough apart to prevent touching. Bake 
in a hot oven to a golden brown and when cold, slit at 
one side and fill. 



Marshmallow Cream 

Take a quarter of a pound of marshmallows and 
cut them in small pieces. Have a quarter of a pound 
of mixed nut meats (English walnuts, pecans and 
almonds). Put them through a meat grinder, mix 
with the marshmallows, and stir together with the 
stiff froth of the white of an egg. Take a shallow 
bowl, put in a layer of the mixture, then one of 
seeded Malaga grapes, another layer of the marsh- 
mallows, and sprinkle the top with shredded pine- 
apple, or chopped Maraschino cherries. Chill and serve 
with whipped cream, put on at the last moment. 



Marshmallow Whip 

One sliced banana, one quarter of a cupful of 
chopped walnuts, half a cupful of chopped pineapple, 
half an orange chopped, and six marshmallows cut 
into small pieces. Stir all together and add a cupful 
of whipped cream. 

123 



MISCELLANEOUS DESSERTS 

Prune Whip 

Stone and chop into small pieces a cupful of stewed 
prunes. Add the stiffly beaten whites of two eggs, 
half a cupful of sugar, and half a teaspoonful of vanilla. 
Beat all together and pour the mixture into a buttered 
earthen dish. Bake slowly for about twenty minutes. 
Serve with whipped cream. 



Stuffed Prunes 

Select large prunes, wash them and steam until 
tender. Remove the stones and stuff them with 
chopped English walnuts and a little powdered sugar. 
Roll the stuffed prunes in powdered sugar. 



Tapioca Cocoa 

Take two even tablespoonfuls of minute tapioca and 
cook with it a small cupful of milk (use a double 
boiler). Let it cook about half an hour, then add a 
rounding tablespoonful of breakfast cocoa which has 
been mixed with a rounding tablespoonful of sugar, 
and a pinch of salt. Remove from the fire and add the 
stiffly beaten white of one egg. Flavor with vanilla 
and pour it into wet molds and set it in the refrigerator. 
Serve with cream and sugar. 



Pineapple Cream 

Dissolve a third of a box of gelatine (use just enough 
water to cover it). Take half a pint of canned pine- 
apple and bring to a boil with the dissolved gelatine. 
When cool stir in the beaten whites of two eggs and 
a cupful of whipped cream. Sugar if desired. Pour 
into two molds that have been wet in cold water. Set 
them in the refrigerator to chill. 

124 



MISCELLANEOUS DESSERTS 

Bavarian Cream 

Beat the yolks of three eggs, add three even table- 
spoonfuls of grated chocolate, a quarter of a cupful of 
sugar and a cupful of rich cream. Put all the ingredi- 
ents into a double boiler and stir one way until it 
thickens. Do not let it boil. Strain this into a bowl. 
Take half of a cupful of cream, beat until thick and 
stir into it a tablespoonful of dissolved gelatine. Mix 
this with the chocolate, cream (lightly) and pour into 
three wet molds. Put on the ice to harden. 



Fruit Cream 

Rub through a sieve a cupful of red raspberries. 
Soak half a box of gelatine in a gill of cold water for 
an hour, then put it in a double boiler and stir until it 
dissolves. Add a cupful of sugar and the berries, stir 
well and remove from the fire. When cool, beat in 
gradually a pint of whipped cream. Wet two molds 
with cold water, turn in the mixture, and let it form. 

Peaches or other fruit may be used. 



Cream Substitute, for Fruit 

Heat a cupful of sweet milk to the boiling point. 
Beat together the whites of two eggs, a tablespoonful 
of white sugar and a piece of butter the size of a nut- 
meg. 

Mix half a cupful of cold milk, an even tablespoonful 
of cornstarch, stir until light and smooth. Stir all the 
ingredients together and cook until it thickens. It 
must not boil, but have the consistency of thick cream. 
Serve in a cream jug. 

125 



ICE CREAM AND FROZEN DAINTIES 

Care must be taken that home-made ice cream is not 
too rich. 

A small -freezer may be improvised. Take a tin pail 
and a glass, porcelain, or other jar with a fitted cover 
for the cream. 

For ice cream, use three parts crushed ice to one of 
salt. 

For water ices, use equal portions of ice and salt. 
(Use common coarse salt.) 

Cover the bottom of the pail with ice, put in the jar 
and pack it with crushed ice and salt until the pail is 
about two-thirds full. Turn the jar by hand. When 
it begins to freeze, scrape from the sides of the jar and 
beat the mixture with a spoon. Continue until the 
entire contents of the jar are frozen. 

To crush ice put pieces in a bag and use a small 
mallet. 

Ice Cream (Any Flavor) 

Heat a pint of sweet milk and stir into it a table- 
spoonful of cornstarch that has been made into a 
smooth paste by mixing- it with a little water. Let it 
boil for a minute ; when cool stir in a beaten egg, half 
of a cupful, or more, of sugar, two or three large 
spoonfuls of thick cream and the desired flavoring. 
Freeze. 



Rich Ice Cream 

Scald a pint of fresh milk, remove it from the fire 
and add the well-beaten yolks of three eggs. Mix 

126 



ICE CREAM AND FROZEN DAINTIES 

thoroughly and pour it gradually upon a cupful of hot 
maple syrup, beating steadily. When it is cold add 
a cupful of whipped cream and turn it into the freezer. 
When ready to serve sprinkle the ice cream with 
chopped walnut meats. 



Custard Ice Cream 

Make a custard of a pint of milk, one egg and half 
a cupful or more of sugar. When cool pour over it 
a cupful of cream flavored with vanilla, and freeze. 



Prune Ice Cream 

Stir into a pint of cream half a cupful of sugar and 
a teaspoonful of vanilla. Pour into the freezer and 
when half frozen add half a cupful of stewed prunes, 
stoned and chopped. 



Vanilla Ice Cream 

Two cupfuls of thin cream, two heaping tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar, two teaspoonfuls of vanilla and a pinch 
of salt. Fruit or nuts may be added or not. Mix 
thoroughly and freeze. 



Sauce for Ice Cream 

(a) Chocolate Sauce 

Mix four tablespoonfuls of cream with two heaping 
teaspoonfuls of grated chocolate. When smooth add 
a large cupful of boiling water and cook a few min- 
utes, stirring constantly. Beat and serve immediately 
with the ice cream. 

(b) Maple Sugar Sauce 

Crush maple sugar and add a very little water, boil 

127 



ICE CREAM AND FROZEN DAINTIES 

until it threads. Stir into it crushed walnut meats and 
pour it over the ice cream. 
(c) Strawberry Sauce 

Mash strawberries enough to make a cupful of juice 
and pulp (put them through a sieve). Take a small 
cupful of sugar and half a cupful of water and boil for 
ten minutes. When cool, stir in the strawberry mix- 
ture and pour it over the ice cream. 



Orange Ice 

Take the juice from three oranges and one lemon. 
Add the grated peel from one orange and let it stand 
for half an hour. Dissolve a cupful of sugar in half a 
pint of water, add it to the fruit juice, stir it well and 
strain it through cheese cloth. Freeze. 



Lemon Ice 

(Same as orange ice, reversing the quantities of 
orange and lemon.) 



Strawberry Ice 

Mash the berries, sweeten and let them stand awhile, 
then strain off the juice. Add as much water as there 
is juice, and a cupful of sugar and freeze. 



Raspberry Ice 

Two cupfuls of raspberries, two-thirds of a cupful 
of sugar, half a cupful of water and a tablespoonful of 
lemon juice. Mix the berries and sugar and let them 
stand to extract the juice, then put through cheese 
cloth, add the water and lemon juice and freeze. 

128 



ICE CREAM AND FROZEN D A I : 

Strawberry Mousse 

Mix together a cupful each of thick cream and 
mashed strawberries that have been put through a 
sieve, a teaspoonful of lemon juice, and a third of a 
cupful of sugar. Beat with an egg beater until thick. 
Line a mold with paper and partly bury it in a vessel 
containing equal parts of salt and ice. Pour the mix- 
ture into the mold, cover with paper and finish pack- 
ing with ice and salt. Let it stand about three hours. 



Frozen Oranges 

Take as many oranges as desired, cut nearly across 
at one end and scoop out the pulp. Put the orange shells 
in cold water. Remove the seeds and tough part from 
the pulp, add sugar to taste, a few chopped raisins and 
candied peel ; a wine glassful of any kind of fruit juice 
may be added. Fill the orange shells with this mix- 
ture, and freeze. 



Strawberry Float 

Take a pint of berries and press them through a 
sieve, sprinkle the pulp with sugar. Beat the whites 
of two eggs until very stiff and whip in the sweetened 
pulp. Sweeten the juice, stir into it a cupful of ri^h 
cream. 

Take individual bowls and pour in the juice, and 
pile the meringue on top. Serve at once. 



Fruit Punch No. i 

Cut into small bits, pineapple and banana to make a 
cupful, three peeled oranges cut in bits, two lemons 
cut also, a cupful of strawberries and red raspberries 

129 



ICE CREAM AND FROZEN DAINTIES 

mixed, and half a cupful of skinned and seeded Malaga 
grapes. 

Make a syrup of one and one-half cupfuls of sugar 
and a little more than a half cupful of water, boil a 
few minutes and stir it into the fruit. Put in a cupful 
of Maraschino cherries and a quart of Apollinaris. Put 
all on a large piece of ice in a punch bowl and let stand 
for fifteen minutes before serving. 



Fruit Punch No. 2 

Cut up three peeled oranges, five slices of pineapple, 
also cut in small pieces, a cupful of strawberries and 
one sliced banana. Mix all together and add half a 
cupful of Maraschino cherries. Make a very strong 
sweet lemonade and put all on a lump of ice in the 
punch bowl. Serve when very cold. 



Fruit Punch No. 3 

Put a large piece of ice in a punch bowl, over this 
a layer of thinly sliced pineapple, cover with brown 
sugar, then a layer of sliced oranges, more sugar, next 
a thin layer of sliced lemons, sprinkled with sugar. 
Pour over this grape juice to half fill the bowl. Just 
before serving add two or three bottles of soda. 



Spice Punch 

Place half a cupful of raisins in a quart of water and 
cook slowly for twenty minutes. Strain off the liquor 
and put with it two cupfuls of sugar, two large sticks 
of cinnamon and the juice and grated rind of one 
lemon. Boil for a few minutes, remove and add two 
cupfuls of orange juice and one of lemon. Strain 

130 



ICE CREAM AND FROZEN DAINTIES 

again and when cool pour into a punch bowl on a 
piece of ice, and add a quart of grape juice. 



Strawberry Punch 

Boil together a pint of water and a half pint of sugar 
for about five minutes. When cool stir in a half pint 
of sliced strawberries and half a cupful of juice. Chill 
and serve in glasses. 



Grape Cream 

Beat the yolks of two eggs, add a heaping table- 
spoonful of sugar, three tablespoonfuls of orange juice 
and a dash of salt. Cook in a double boiler until it 
begins to thicken, remove it and add the stiffly beaten 
egg whites and two tablespoonfuls of grape juice. 
Chill and serve. 



Egg Nog 

Beat an egg thoroughly and add a heaping table- 
spoonful of sugar. Beat once more and add a cupful 
of milk and half a cupful of thin cream. Grate in nut- 
meg or any preferred spice. Chill and serve. 



Fruit Egg Nog 

Fresh fruit, strawberries, raspberries or any kind 
preferred. Strain through cheese cloth enough to 
make a half cupful of juice. Beat an egg, add half a 
cupful of cold water and the fruit juice. Chill and 
pour over crushed ice in the glasses. 



Whipped Cream 

Put a pint of cream in a dish with two tablespoon- 
fuls of powdered sugar and beat it with a wire whip 



ICE CREAM AND FROZEN DAINTIES 

until thick. Flavor with vanilla or any preferred 
flavoring. 



Coffee Frappe 

Make a quart of strong coffee, sweeten, and when 
cold add the unbeaten whites of two eggs. Turn into 
the freezer and freeze lightly. 



Ginger Ale Frappe 

Take two bottles of ginger ale, add the juice of three 
lemons and half a cupful of sugar (or less). When the 
sugar dissolves, turn all into the freezer. 



Lemonade Frappe 

Boil together a quart of water and two cupfuls of 
granulated sugar. Remove and when lukewarm add 
the juice of six lemons. When entirely cool put in the 
freezer and freeze. 



Orange Frappe 

Take a small cupful of sugar and two cupfuls of 
water and boil together for ten minutes without 
stirring. Remove and add the juice of five oranges and 
a lemon. When the mixture is cold whip in the 
unbeaten white of an egg, and freeze. 



Mint Julep 

(Ingredients: One pint of water, one cupful of 
sugar, half a pint of grape juice, half a cupful of 
strawberry juice, one-quarter of a cupful of orange 
juice, the juice of four lemons, a cupful of boiling 
water, six sprigs of fresh mint.) 

Make a syrup by boiling the pint of water and the 

132 



ICE CREAM AND FROZEN DAINTIES 

sugar for fifteen minutes, separate the mint and put 
it in the boiling water. Let it stand for five minutes, 
strain and add the extract to the syrup. Then put in 
the fruit juices. Cool, put it in a punch bowl and set 
on ice. When ready to serve, put in a large piece of 
ice and garnish with whole strawberries and fresh mint 
leaves. 



Lemon Sherbet 

The juice of four lemons and sugar to taste. Chill 
and add a quart of rich milk. Freeze. 



Pineapple Sherbet 

Take a large cupful of finely chopped pineapple, 
sweeten and let it stand several hours. Add the juice 
of a lemon and a pint or more of cold water. Put in 
the refrigerator and when very cold serve in glasses 
over crushed ice. 



Cherry Sherbet 

Stone a pound of cherries. Dissolve three heaping 
tablespoonfuls of sugar in a pint of water. Put the 
cherries in this and cook until tender. When cool pour 
in glasses over crushed ice and heap a meringue on 
top. Add a Maraschino cherry to each. 



Mint Sherbet 

Take two glasses and place crushed ice in the bottom 
of each. Crush a little mint to a pulp. Add four 
spoonfuls of grape juice. Mix well and let it stand a 
few minutes. Strain and put it in the glasses and fill 
them with seltzer. Put a few sprays of mint on top. 

133 



ICE CREAM AND FROZEN DAINTIES 

Grape Sherbet 

Take a cupful of hot water and make a syrup, by 
adding about a cupful of sugar. Cook until it begins 
to thicken. When cool stir in the juice of one lemon, 
the stiffly beaten white of an egg, and a cupful of 
grape juice. Then freeze. 



Pineapple Cloud 

Cut a pineapple in small pieces, whip a cupful of 
cream and beat the white of an egg until stiff with 
half a cupful of powdered sugar. Put a spoonful of 
lemon juice with the pineapple and mix all together 
lightly. Serve at once in sherbet cups. 



Fruit Cocktail 

Fresh berries on crushed ice in a cocktail glass. 
Fill up the glass with fruit juice and add two Mara- 
schino cherries. 

Peaches, apricots, etc., may be cut into small pieces 
and used instead of berries. 



134 



COLD DRINKS 

Pineapple Lemonade 

Make a syrup by boiling half a pint of water and a 
small cupful of sugar together for ten minutes. Add 
half a cupful or more of canned pineapple and the 
juice of two lemons. Strain and add a pint of ice 
water. Serve in glasses with crushed ice. 



Egg Lemonade 

Beat the whites of two eggs until stiff, then add the 
yolks and beat lightly. Take a cupful of sugar and the 
juice of two or three lemons and a little water. Stir 
all together and add three or four cupfuls of ice water. 
Serve at once. 



Iced Tea 

Pour a quart of boiling water on a heaping teaspoon- 

ful of tea and let it steep for five minutes. Strain it 
and add the juice of one orange and one lemon. 
Sweeten to taste, cool, and serve on crushed ice. 



Lemon Seltzer 

Two glasses with crushed ice in the bottom. Put 
the juice of a lemon in each with a heaping teaspoonful 
of sugar. Fill up the glasses with seltzer. 



Iced Chocolate 

Put half an ounce of unsweetened chocolate into a 
saucepan and pour on it gradually a half pint of boiling 
water, stirring steadily. When the chocolate is dis- 
solved, add a large cupful of sugar, and stir until it 

135 



COLD DRINKS 



begins to boil, then let it cook three minutes. Strain 
it and let it cool, add a teaspoonful of vanilla, put it in 
a bottle and keep it in the refrigerator. Put a little 
crushed ice in the glasses and put in two tablespoon- 
fuls of the chocolate syrup, two tablespoonfuls of 
whipped cream and fill the glasses with apollinaris 
water (or carbonic) ; stir before drinking. A little milk 
may be put in the glasses also if preferred. 



Ginger Punch 

A pint of water, quarter of a pound of ginger, half 
a cupful of sugar, boil together for fifteen minutes. 
Remove from the fire and cool. Add half a cupful of 
mixed orange and lemon juice. Mix and strain. Serve 
in glasses partly filled with crushed ice. 



Rural Ale 

To one pint of boiling water add half a cupful of 
black molasses, and two teaspoonfuls of powdered gin- 
ger, stir thoroughly, chill and serve with crushed ice. 



Egg Shake 

Three tablespoonfuls of orange juice placed in each 
glass, half an egg on this, half an even teaspoonful of 
grated nutmeg. Fill with soda water and a little 
shaved ice. Shake well with a shaker. 



Raspberry Soda 

Put a tablespoonful of raspberry juice into each 
glass, half a teaspoonful of sugar and a tablespoonful 
of cream. Fill up the glasses with ice cold soda water, 
and serve. 

136 



COLD DRINKS 



Fruit Shrub 

For every cupful of berry juice take half a cupful of 
cider vinegar and two cupfuls of sugar. Cook the 
sugar and vinegar together to a thick syrup. Skim if 
necessary, add the juice, let it boil up and bottle it. 
When served, put a little in a glass with crushed ice, 
and fill the glass with ice water. 



Sparkler 

Soften one-third of a cake of compressed yeast in 
half a cupful of warm water. Put the grated rind of 
one lemon, and the juice from two, in a quart of 
boiling water, add a cupful of sugar. When cool, stir 
in the yeast, cover tightly, and let it stand over night. 
Then bottle and put it in a cool place for a day. 



Mint Seltzer 

For each glass, take two sprays of mint, a bit of 
shaved ice, and crush to a pulp. Place this in the 
glass, and add four tablespoonfuls of grape juice. Fill 
the glass with vichy or seltzer, and serve with a bit 
of fresh mint on top of each. 



137 



HOT DRINKS 

Peppermint 

Boil a cupful of water and half a cupful of sugar for 
ten minutes. Pour this over the well-beaten white of 
an egg, and while stirring add gradually half a pint of 
hot, rich milk or thin cream. Add six drops of pepper- 
mint essence. Stir in a pinch of baking soda and serve 
at once. 



Mulled Grape Juice 

Take the juice of a lemon or orange and a bit of the 
grated rind. Half a cupful of boiling water and a 
tablespoonful of sugar. Put them in a saucepan with 
a pint of unfermented grape juice, two cloves and half 
a teaspoonful of powdered mace. Bring to the boil- 
ing point and then simmer for ten minutes. Take 
half a cupful of sugar and a quarter of a cupful of 
water, boil to a syrup and pour it on the stiffly beaten 
white of an egg. Add it to the hot grape juice, put 
grated nutmeg on top and serve at once. 



Mulled Cider 

Heat a pint of cider to the boiling point. Mix 
together a heaping tablespoonful of flour and half a 
cupful of cold milk. Beat until smooth. Put this in 
the hot cider a little at a time, beating constantly to 
keep it from lumping. Add sugar to taste and serve 
at once. 

138 



HOT DRINKS 



French Coffee 

Put the coffee into the strainer of the coffee pot (per- 
colator), replace the perforated top of the strainer and 
pour boiling water into a heated measure, then into 
the strainer, letting it run slowly through the coffee 
into the lower receptacle. Then pour it out into the 
measure and again over the coffee, repeat if necessary. 
Let it stand a minute and it will be clear. Set the 
coffee pot in hot water until time to serve. 



Picnic Coffee 

Put water in a coffee pot, allowing about a pint to 
each person. When it boils stir into it the ground 
coffee, a heaping tablespoonful to a pint of water. Stir 
well, let it boil a minute, remove from the fire and it 
will settle in a few minutes. Be sure that no grounds 
are in the spout of the pot. A simple way is to pour 
out a cupful, then return it to the pot, and let it stand 
a few minutes. 



Chocolate 

Take two squares of unsweetened chocolate and a 
stick of cinnamon about two inches long. Heat a 
quart of milk with the cinnamon and then put in the 
chocolate, let it cook eight or ten minutes, stir occa- 
sionally. Remove the cinnamon, beat the liquid with 
an egg beater, add half a cupful of sugar and the 
beaten yolk of an egg. Beat again and serve with 
whipped cream. 



Mulled Buttermilk 

Simply bring the buttermilk to the boiling point and 
add sugar if desired. (Spice may be used also.) 

139 



HOT DRINKS 



Cocoa 

Boil two cupfuls of water, take four tablespoonfuls 
of cocoa and a little cold water. Rub it to a smooth 
paste, add it to the boiled water. Let it cook a few 
minutes, then add two cupfuls of milk and boil a few 
minutes, stirring frequently, sweeten to taste. 



Austrian Chocolate 

Heat a pint of milk in a double boiler, and stir into 
it three heaping teaspoonfuls of sugar, the same quan- 
tity of grated chocolate, and one-third of an even 
teaspoonful of cornstarch that has been dissolved in 
a little cold water. Cook, and stir it thoroughly for a 
few minutes, then pour it over the stiffly beaten white 
of an egg and serve at once. 



Spiced Milk 

Heat a pint or more of sweet milk, and flavor it with 
cinnamon, grated nutmeg or any preferred spice. 



140 



BREADS, MUFFINS AND HOT CAKES 

Eggless Gingerbread 

One cupful of molasses, one cupful of brown sugar, 
one cupful of warm water, one teaspoonful of soda dis- 
solved in the cupful of warm water, two tablespoonfuls 
of butter, one teaspoonful of ginger, stir in flour enough 
for a stiff batter. Bake in a moderate oven. 



Raisin Puffs 

Cream together half a cupful each of butter and 
sugar. Add two well-beaten eggs, a cupful of sweet 
milk, two cupfuls of flour into which has been sifted 
two heaping teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one large 
cupful of chopped raisins dredged in flour. Mix well 
and fill cups two-thirds full. Steam or bake. Serve 
with hard sauce. 



Puffs 

Take a cupful of flour, sift it with a teaspoonful of 
baking powder, add half a teaspoonful of salt and stir 
into it gradually a cupful of milk and the well-beaten 
yolk of an egg. Beat until smooth and add the beaten 
white. Bake in greased gem 1 pans. 



Muffins No. i 

Cream together half a cupful of sugar and a heap- 
ing teaspoonful of butter. Add a well-beaten egg, a 
cupful of sweet milk, a cupful of flour sifted with a 
rounding teaspoonful of baking powder, half an even 

141 



BREADS, MUFFINS, HOT CAKES 

teaspoonful of salt. Beat well and add enough corn- 
meal to make a soft dough. Bake in greased muffin 
tins. 



Muffins No. 2 

Take two-thirds of a cupful of flour and sift it with a 
rounding teaspoonful of baking powder and a pinch of 
salt. Cream together a rounding teaspoonful of but- 
ter and the same amount of sugar. Mix all the ingredi- 
ents with a well-beaten egg and a quarter of a cupful 
of milk. Bake in greased muffin pans. 



Oatmeal Muffins 

Take a cupful of cooked oatmeal and stir into it a 
well-beaten egg, a teaspoonful of melted butter and a 
rounding teaspoonful of sugar. Sift a small cupful of 
flour with a rounding teaspoonful of baking powder. 
Mix the ingredients thoroughly and bake in greased 
muffin pans. 



Coffee Cake No. i 

Cream together two-thirds of a cupful of sugar and 
a heaping tablespoonful of shortening. Two well- 
beaten eggs, half a cupful of strong liquid coffee. Sift 
two scant cupfuls of flour with two rounding teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder and an even teaspoonful of 
ground cinnamon, a pinch of ground cloves, and a 
pinch of salt. Mix all the ingredients thoroughly and 
add half a cupful each of currants, chopped seeded 
raisins and chopped nuts, that have been dredged in 
flour. Bake in greased cake pan. 

142 



BREADS, .MUFFINS, HO T CAKES 

Coffee Cake No. 2 

One cupful of flour, two-thirds of a cupful of sugar 
creamed, with the same amount of mixed shortening 
(suet, butter, lard or drippings), a cupful of molasses, 
one of strong liquid coffee, an even teaspoonful of 
saleratus dissolved in a little water, a pinch of salt, an 
even teaspoonful or more of mixed spices, and half a 
cupful of chopped raisins. Bake in a greased cake pan. 
This will keep like fruit cake. 



Coffee Cake No. 3 

Cream together two-thirds of a cupful of sugar and 
half a cupful of any shortening. Mix half a yeast cake 
with a little water, and a pint of milk, and flavor with 
nutmeg and lemon. Beat all together, with enough 
flour for a dough, not quite as stiff as bread dough. 
Let it rise, put in a pan and let it rise again. Dot the 
top with little lumps of butter, sugar, cinnamon and 
crushed peanuts. 



Cornmeal Gems 

One cupful of cornmeal and half a cupful of graham 
flour, a heaping teaspoonful of lard, a rounding table- 
spoonful of brown sugar, half an even teaspoonful of 
salt, a teaspoonful of saleratus dissolved in a little 
water, and a well-beaten egg. Beat al! thoroughly, 
and add enough sour milk to make a batter. Bake in 
gem pans. 



Graham Gems 

Heat a pint of milk and stir into it two unbeaten 
eggs, a tablespoonful of melted butter, a rounding 
teaspoonful of sugar and a pinch of salt. Sift one and 

143 



BREADS, MUFFINS, HOT CAKES 

one-half cupfuls of graham flour with a heaping tea- 
spoonful of baking powder. Beat all the ingredients 
together and bake in buttered gem pans in a hot oven. 
Serve hot. 



Hoe Cake 

Sift a pint of cornmeal with a teaspoonful of salt. 
Make a dough with a little water, shape into cakes and 
bake in greased pans in a hot oven. 



Johnny Cake 

One cupful of buttermilk or sour milk, one and one- 
half cupfuls of yellow cornmeal, one cupful of flour, a 
teaspoonful of saleratus dissolved in a little water, and 
a scant teaspoonful of salt. Add a heaping tablespoon- 
ful of shortening, melted. Beat into a smooth batter. 



Corn Bread 

Half a cupful of cornmeal, half a cupful of flour into 
which has been sifted a rounding teaspoonful of baking 
powder, half a cupful of sweet milk, a rounding table- 
spoonful of butter, the same amount of brown sugar 
and an even teaspoonful of salt. Stir together with 
the well-beaten yolk of an egg. The last thing stir in 
the beaten white of the egg, and bake at once. 



Currant Bread 

Dissolve half a yeast cake in a little warm water. 
Scald a pint of milk and add a teaspoonful of melted 
butter and one even teaspoonful of salt. When the 
milk has cooled a little add the yeast and beat all 
together with flour enough for a batter. Set the mix- 
ture in a warm place to rise, leave it for seven or eight 

144 



BREADS, M U F F I XS. HOT CAKES 

hours, then beat it hard with a cupful of flour and add 
a cupful of dried currants that have been dredged in 
flour. Let it raise until light, then bake. 



Batter Bread 

Take half a cupful of cold boiled rice and a large 
cupful of yellow cornmeal, two well beaten eggs, an 
even teaspoonful of salt, a tablespoonful of melted 
butter and add enough sweet milk to make a smooth 
batter. Stir thoroughly and bake in shallow pans. 
Have the oven hot. 



Old Virginia Batter Bread 

Beat three eggs. Add one pint of cornmeal into 
which has been sifted two rounding teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder and an even teaspoonful of salt. Stir 
in enough sweet milk to make a thin batter and put it 
into a hot well-greased pan. Bake quickly. 



Pumpkin Bread 

Take stewed pumpkin in any quantity and while hot 
stir into it scalded cornmeal to make a dough. Add 
salt and sugar to taste. Bake in a shallow pan and 
serve hot. 



Hominy Bread 

Take a cupful of hot boiled hominy, the well-beaten 
yolk of an egg, butter the size of a hickory nut 
(melted) and half an even teaspoonful of salt. Stir in 
gradually a cupful of sweet milk and a third of a cupful 
of cornmeal. Add the well-beaten white of the egg 
and bake in a shallow tin for twenty-five minutes. 

145 



BREADS, MUFFINS, HOT CAKES 

Apple Bread 

Cream together two-thirds of a cupful of sugar and 
a rounding tablespoonful of butter. Add two well- 
beaten eggs. Stir and pour in gradually a small cupful 
of sour milk and an even teaspoonful of saleratus dis- 
solved in a little hot water. Mix the ingredients well 
with a cupful or more of sifted flour. Put the mixture 
in a shallow baking tin and place a layer of sliced 
apples on top. Sprinkle them with sugar and ground 
cinnamon or nutmeg. Bake. 



Drop Biscuit 

Take a large cupful of flour and sift it with a heap- 
ing teaspoonful of baking powder and an even tea- 
spoonful of salt. Add a heaping teaspoonful of short- 
ening and a cupful of milk or water. Drop with a 
spoon in a greased pan. Bake in a hot oven. 

Steamed Boston Brown Bread 

Take half a cupful each of cornmeal, wheat flour and 
graham flour, and sift them together with an even tea- 
spoonful of salt. Dissolve an even teaspoonful of 
saleratus in a cupful of warm sour milk. Mix all the 
ingredients together with two-thirds of a cupful of dark 
molasses (warmed), stir well and add a small cupful 
of boiling water. Beat very thoroughly and pour into 
greased molds (with a cover) and steam for three 
hours. Then remove from the molds and brown in the 



oven. 



Baked Brown Bread 

One and one-half cupfuls of graham flour and half a 
cupful of white flour. Sift them together and pour in 

146 



BREADS, MUFFINS, HO T CAKES 

a cupful of sour milk and two tablespoonfuls of dark 
molasses. Dissolve an even teaspoonful of baking 
soda in a little hot water and add it to the mixture with 
an even teaspoonful of salt. 

Raisins may be used if desired. 



Crumb Biscuit 

Soak a scant pint of bread crumbs in a pint of sour 
milk for thirty minutes. Add a rounding tablespoonful 
of lard or mixed shortening and half an even teaspoon- 
ful of salt. Sift half a cupful of flour with a rounding 
teaspoonful of baking powder. Mix all the ingredients 
and stir in an even teaspoonful of baking soda dis- 
solved in a little hot water. Use flour enough to make 
a dough that can be rolled out, cut into shapes and 
bake in a hot oven. 



Bran Bread 

Two and one-half cupfuls of bran and a large cupful 
of flour, one and one-quarter cupfuls of sour milk in 
which has been dissolved a rounding teaspoonful of 
saleratus, three tablespoonfuls of dark molasses, an 
even teaspoonful of salt and a rounding tablespoonful 
of shortening. Make into a loaf, adding flour if neces- 
sary. Bake in a bread pan for about an hour. 



Bread 

Take a pint of sifted flour and chop into it a round- 
ing teaspoonful of butter. Dissolve half a cake of 
compressed yeast in a little warm water. Mix together 
with a pint of warm water and a rounding teaspoon- 
ful of sugar. Beat hard for ten minutes and let it rise 
about eight hours. Then sift a quart of flour with an 

147 



BREADS, MUFFINS, HOT CAKES 

even teaspoonful of salt and work it into the batter. 
Knead it steadily for ten minutes, using more or less 
of the flour. Make a smooth dough that will not stick 
to the hands, let it rise again and when about twice 
the original size, make into loaves and bake. 



Baking Powder Bread 

Sift together three cupfuls of flour and three even 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder, half an even teaspoon- 
ful of salt and a rounding teaspoonful of sugar. Add 
one half cupful each of chopped currants and citron. 
Take one and one-half cupfuls of milk and beat an egg 
into it. Stir all the ingredients together and put into 
a bread pan. Cover with another pan and bake until 
it rises, then uncover and let it brown. Bake about 
fifty minutes. The fruit may be left out. 



Potato Bread 

Dissolve one cake of yeast in half a cupful of warm 
water. Mash three medium sized boiled potatoes, 
pour over them one pint of the water in which they 
were boiled. "While hot add flour enough to make a 
batter. When lukewarm add the dissolved yeast. Let 
this mixture stand in a warm place for about twelve 
hours, then add three pints of warm water in which 
has been stirred an even teaspoonful of baking soda 
and a rounding teaspoonful of salt. Then stir in as 
much sifted flour as can be beaten in with a spoon. 
Let it rise, then add a rounding tablespoonful of butter 
cut into small pieces, knead until stiff, let it rise, then 
make into loaves. Let it rise again and bake slowly 
for about an hour and a half. 

148 



BREADS, MUFFINS, HOT CAKES 

Graham Bread 

Make the batter as for white bread and when it has 
risen work into it two parts of graham flour to one of 
wheat flour, about a quarter of a cupful of cornmeal 
may be added. Stir in a half a cupful of molasses and 
half an even teaspoonful of salt. Work to a soft dough. 
Let it rise, then knead well, make into loaves and let 
it rise once more. Bake in a steady oven. 



Whole Wheat Bread 

Scald half a pint of milk and mix it with half a pint 
of boiling water, let it stand until lukewarm and then 
stir in half a cake of yeast that has been dissolved in a 
little warm water. Make a thick batter by stirring in 
whole wheat flour, add half an even teaspoonful of 
salt and beat thoroughly. Work in enough wheat 
flour to make it stiff, turn it on a board and knead 
steadily for ten minutes. Put it in a pan and set it in 
a warm place to rise (for four hours). Make it into 
loaves, let it rise and then bake. 



Whole Wheat Bread (Without Yeast) 

Beat two eggs until light, add a pinch of salt, one 
and one-half cupfuls of whole wheat flour and sour 
cream to make a stiff batter that can just be stirred 
with a large spoon. Beat thoroughly for five minutes. 
If desired a small cupful of ground nuts may be added. 
Pour into hot muffin pans or make into small loaves. 



Salt Rising Bread 

Into a pint of boiling water stir a half teaspoonful 
of salt and, a little at a time, enough flour to make a 
soft dough. Beat hard for fifteen minutes, then cover 

149 



BREADS, MUFFINS, HOT CAKES 

and set it at the side of the range or in some warm spot 
for eight hours. Into a pint of lukewarm milk stir a 
teaspoonful of salt and enough flour to make a stiff 
batter. Into this work the risen dough. Mix well, 
cover and set again in a warm place to rise until very 
light. Knead in enough flour to make the mixture 
like ordinary bread dough. Make into loaves, set in 
a warm place to rise, then bake. 



Boston Rolls 

Sift together a cupful of flour, half a cupful of corn- 
meal, two heaping teaspoonfuls of baking powder, half 
an even teaspoonful of salt and a rounding teaspoonful 
of sugar. Chop into this a rounding tablespoonful of 
butter, add a well-beaten egg, and a small cupful of 
milk. (Vary the amount of milk or flour.) Make a 
dough that can be rolled out, cut it in round pieces, put 
a dot of butter in the center and fold into a roll. Wet 
the top with milk and put into a greased pan. Bake 
from ten to fifteen minutes in a hot oven. 



Boston Flat Cake 

Sift together a cupful of flour and a rounding tea- 
spoonful of baking powder, add half an even teaspoon- 
ful of salt. Dissolve an even teaspoonful of saleratus 
in a little water. Stir all with a dessert spoonful of 
olive oil and sour milk to make a dough. Stir with a 
large spoon and shape (with the spoon) into biscuits 
the size of cookies. Put them into a greased piepan, 
dot with a bit of butter or a few drops of oil and 
sprinkle lightly with brown sugar. Bake for ten or 
twelve minutes and serve hot. 

150 



BREADS, MUFFINS, HOT CAKES 

Pancakes 

Sift a cupful of flour with a rounding teaspoonful of 
baking powder. Add a pinch of salt and stir in a well 
beaten egg with a cupful of sweet milk. Use flour 
enough for a thin batter . (A soapstone griddle is the 
best and requires no greasing.) An ordinary griddle 
must be greased after each set of cakes is baked. 



Bread Pancakes 

Two cupfuls of stale bread that has been soaked in 
hot water (press out the water), a well-beaten egg (or 
two), an even teaspoonful of salt and half a cupful of 
flour that has been sifted with an even teaspoonful of 
baking powder. Add enough sweet milk to make a 
thin batter. 



Scones 

Sift a pint of flour with half an even teaspoonful of 
salt. Cut into this a heaping tablespoonful of butter, 
and add half a pint of sour milk into which has been 
stirred half an even teaspoonful of saleratus. Mix 
lightly and roll out pieces about an inch thick and as 
large around as a plate. Handle the dough as little as 
possible. Cut each round into four pieces, bake on a 
hot griddle, turn and be sure they are cooked through. 
They should rise light and puffy. Serve with butter. 



Oatmeal Scones 

Sift together half a cupful of flour, a rounding tea- 
spoonful of baking powder and half an even teaspoon- 
ful of salt. Add to this one and one-half cupfuls of 
oatmeal. Scald, but do not boil, one and one-half 
cupfuls of milk, put in this a rounding tablespoonful 



BREADS, MUFFINS, HOT CAKES 

of butter, and a rounding teaspoonful of sugar. Mix 
all the ingredients with a large spoon, add a little flour 
if necessary and turn the dough onto a pastry board. 
Roll out thin, cut with a biscuit cutter and bake on a 
hot griddle. Serve with butter. 



Rhode Island Cakes 

Take cornmeal and make a thin mush, salt it and 
add stale bread that has been soaked in milk or water. 
Beat well and pour on a hot griddle, cook slowly and 
add a little grease from time to time. A beaten egg 
may be used with the batter if preferred. 



Rye and Corn Cakes 

Take half a cupful each of cornmeal, rye meal and 
flour, one half an even teaspoonful of salt, half a cupful 
of dark molasses, a cupful of sour milk in which has 
been dissolved an even teaspoonful of saleratus ; and 
one or two well-beaten eggs. Fry in deep fat as 
doughnuts, or thin the mixture and cook as pancakes. 



Corn Cakes 

Pour boiling water on half a cupful of cornmeal and 
let it stand for twenty minutes. Add an even teaspoon- 
ful of salt, a rounding teaspoonful of sugar, a beaten* 
egg and a cupful of flour sifted with a rounding tea- 
spoonful of baking powder. Pour in enough sweet 
milk to make a smooth batter. 



Flannel Cakes 

Cream together a rounding tablespoonful each of 
butter and sugar, add two well-beaten eggs, one and 

152 



BREADS, MUFFINS, HOT CAKES 

one-half cupfuls of flour into which has been sifted a 
rounding teaspoonful of baking powder. Add enough 
sweet milk to make a smooth batter. 



Potato Pancakes With Bacon 

Grate four potatoes, add two beaten eggs, three 
tablespoonfuls of milk and one of flour with half an 
even teaspoonful of salt. Fry slices of bacon and pour 
the batter over them, and fry brown on both sides. 



Potato Pancakes With Ham 

Grate four potatoes, add a beaten egg, salt and 
pepper and a rounding tablespoonful of flour. If neces- 
sary add a little milk or water to make a good batter. 
Cook on a griddle and serve with fried ham. 



Buckwheat Cakes 

Stir together one and one-half cupfuls of buckwheat 
flour and half a cupful of graham flour, add half an 
even teaspoonful of salt. Scald a cupful of milk and 
add a cupful of hot water. Add a third of a yeast cake 
that has been dissolved in warm water, and a table- 
spoonful of dark molasses. Beat all together and let it 
rise overnight. 

A few minutes before baking dissolve half an even 
teaspoonful of saleratus in a little warm water, mix it 
thoroughly in the batter. Take a large spoonful of 
batter for each cake and have the griddle hot. 

(Half a cupful of the batter may be used to raise 
the pancakes instead of the yeast. Fill up the cup with 
water and set it in the refrigerator until wanted. Then 
pour off the water.) 

153 



BREADS, MUFFINS, HOT CAKES 

Rice Pancakes 

Make a wheat cake batter, using boiled rice half and 
half with the flour, a little butter may be added. 



Chocolate Pancakes 

Take two eggs and mix them with two heaping 
tablespoonfuls of grated sweet chocolate, half a cupful 
of milk and half a cupful of flour sifted with an even 
teaspoonful of baking powder and a pinch of salt. 
Beat all together thoroughly and bake on a griddle. 
Sprinkle each cake with sugar and any preferred fill- 
ing. Roll them neatly and serve at once. 



Waffles 

Sift together two small cupfuls of flour and a heap- 
ing teaspoonful of baking powder, add a pinch of salt. 
Beat one or two eggs and put with them one and one- 
half cupfuls of milk. Stir the prepared flour into this 
gradually until the batter is smooth. Heat the waffle 
iron and brush into it some butter or grease. Put the 
batter in the hot iron (a large spoonful will make a 
waffle) and turn the iron over. 



Southern Waffles 

Make a mush of half a cupful of hot water and two 
heaping teaspoonfuls of cornmeal. Cook for ten min- 
utes in a double boiler. Then add a small cupful of 
milk. Sift together a large cupful of flour, a rounding 
teaspoonful of baking powder, half an even teaspoon- 
ful of salt and a heaping teaspoonful of sugar. Mix 
the mush with this and add a well-beaten egg and 
a tablespoonful of melted butter. Beat into a smooth 
batter, bake in buttered iron and serve with syrup. 

154 



BREADS, MUFFINS, HOT CAKES 

Fritter Batter 

Take half a cupful of sifted flour, the beaten yolk 
of an egg, a pinch of salt and a teaspoonful of olive oil 
or melted butter. Mix the yolk and oil, then stir the 
flour in gradually. Add half a cupful of water or milk 
gradually and beat all the ingredients together thor- 
oughly. Let it stand an hour or more. Just before 
using add the well-beaten white of the egg. 

Heat fat slowly in a kettle, when a bluish smoke 
starts from the center of the fat it is ready for use. 
Use a frying basket for the fritters. When through 
with the fat, strain it through a thin cloth and it may 
be used again. 

(To clear the fat, put in a slice of raw potato and 
let it cook until well browned, then strain the fat 
through cheese cloth.) 



Apple Fritters No. i 

Sprinkle slices of peeled apples with powdered sugar 
and a little lemon juice. In about twenty minutes dip 
the pieces in batter and fry in deep fat. Drain and 
serve with hard sauce. 



Apple Fritters No. 2 

Beat the yolk and white of an egg separately. Sift 
half a cupful of flour with an even teaspoonful of bak- 
ing powder and a pinch of salt. Stir into the beaten 
yolk half a cupful of milk and add the flour gradually. 
Beat all together thoroughly and add the beaten white 
and half a cupful of thinly sliced apples, sprinkled with 
a little ground cinnamon and a teaspoonful of sugar. 
Drop by the spoonful into boiling fat. When done 
sprinkle with powdered sugar. 

155 



BREADS, MUFFINS, HOT CAKES 

Fruit Fritters 

Cut peeled bananas across the center, halve the 
pieces lengthwise, sprinkle with lemon and grape juice. 
Let it stand an hour, then drain and dip the pieces in 
batter and fry in deep fat. Sprinkle with sugar. Fresh 
or canned fruits may be used. 

(Canned fruit must be well drained.) 



Corn Fritters No. i 

Take a small can of corn, turn out the contents and 
drain. Chop it fine and make a batter of a cupful of 
milk, a well-beaten egg, half an even teaspoonful of 
salt, and enough flour to make a batter. Beat thor- 
oughly with the corn and bake on a griddle in small 
cakes. 



Corn Fritters No. 2 

Take a small cupful of corn and add a small cupful 
of cracker crumbs. Stir in the well beaten yolks of 
two eggs, salt and pepper to taste. Add the beaten 
egg whites and drop with a spoon into hot fat. 



Cheese Fritters 

Take a cupful of mashed potatoes and put them 
through a coarse sieve. Add two heaping teaspoon- 
fuls of grated cheese, a piece of butter the size of a 
hickory nut, half an even teaspoonful of salt, half an 
even teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, the well-beaten 
yolk of an egg and a cupful of thick cream. Beat all 
together thoroughly, add a little flour if necessary and 
make into small balls. Roll in the egg white, then into 
crumbs and fry in deep fat. Drain and serve. 

156 



BREADS, .MUFFINS, HOT CAKES 

Clam Fritters 

Sift a cupful of flour with an even teaspoonful of 
baking powder. Beat an egg and add half a cupful 
each of milk and clam juice, then stir in the flour grad- 
ually. Season with salt to taste and stir into the batter 
eight or ten chopped clams. Drop into the fat with a 
large spoon. Drain and serve. 



Potato Fritters 

Put three cold boiled potatoes through a sieve. Beat 
an egg and stir it into the potatoes with half a cupful 
of milk and a little salt. Add enough flour to make a 
dough that can be rolled. Shape into balls or fingers 
and roll them in flour. Fry in hot fat. 



Fritter Puffs 

Beat the yolks of two eggs and add a heaping tea- 
spoonful of sugar, a teaspoonful of orange juice and a 
little of the grated rind (about half an even teaspoon- 
ful) and half a teaspoonful of vanilla. Beat all together 
thoroughly, add enough sifted flour to make a dough 
that can be rolled and cut it into biscuits. Fry in deep 
fat and roll in powdered sugar. 



Chicken Croquettes 

Take a cupful of chopped boiled chicken, or chicken 
and veal. Put a rounding teaspoonful of butter in a 
frying pan and put in the chicken with a rounding tea- 
spoonful of flour and a quarter of a cupful of chicken 
broth, salt, pepper and nutmeg to taste. Stir in the 
well-beaten yolk of an egg, and pour out to cool ; then 
shape into the desired forms, dip into the beaten 
white of the egg, roll in crumbs and fry in hot fat. 

157 



BREADS, MUFFINS, HOT CAKES 

Banana Croquettes 

Cut bananas (or any suitable fruit) into pieces, roll 
them in egg and then in crumbs. Fry in hot fat and 
drain. Sprinkle with powdered sugar. 



Sweet Potato Croquettes 

Take a cupful of hot mashed sweet potatoes, add an 
even tablespoonful of butter, salt and pepper to taste 
and a well-beaten egg. When cool form into the 
desired shape, dip in egg and crumbs, fry in deep fat 
and drain. 



Carrot Croquettes 

Take a cupful of cooked mashed carrots, season with 
salt and pepper and a teaspoonful of melted butter. 
Stir well with a beaten egg yolk, set it on ice if conve- 
nient. When cold form into small balls, roll them in 
the white of egg and crumbs, fry in deep fat and drain. 



Rice Balls No. 1 

Take a small cupful of cooked rice, a teaspoonful of 
melted butter, a rounding teaspoonful of sugar, half an 
even teaspoonful of salt and the well-beaten yolk of an 
egg. Mix well and make into small balls, putting a 
bit of fruit or nut meat in the center. Dip the balls in 
egg, roll in crumbs and fry in deep fat. Drain and 
sprinkle with powdered sugar. 



Rice Balls No. 2 

Take a tablespoonful of cold boiled rice for each 
ball, roll it in crumbs, then in egg, and again in 
crumbs, and fry until brown. 

158 



P, R E A D S , MUFFINS, HOT CAKES 

Dumplings 

Sift together a large cupful of flour and two round- 
ing teaspoonfuls of baking powder and an even tea- 
spoonful of salt. Add enough cold water to make a 
soft dough, and drop big spoonfuls into gravy or stew. 



Berry Puff 

Cut into halves a cupful of strawberries, and season 
them with sugar. Cream together a cupful of sugar 
and a heaping tablespoonful of butter. Add one. or 
two, well beaten eggs. Sift two cupfuls of flour with 
a heaping teaspoonful of baking powder. Stir all to- 
gether, with a cupful of milk and a little salt. Bake in 
muffin pans and serve, with or without sauce. 



Stuffed Eggs 

Take half a dozen hard boiled eggs. Remove the 
shells and cut the eggs in halves. Mash the yolks 
with a rounding tablespoonful of butter, one of cream, 
pepper and salt. Fill the eggs and place the halves 
together. Take the remainder of the filling and mix it 
with the stiffly beaten white of an egg. Dip the eggs 
in this, roll them in crumbs and fry in hot fat. 



159 



SANDWICHES 

Ham Sandwich No. i 

To a cupful of boiled ham, chopped fine, add a table- 
spoonful of lemon juice and a tablespoonful of any pre- 
ferred dressing. Mix well, spread without butter on 
white or rye bread. Cut them in a fancy shape if 
preferred. 



Ham Sandwich No. 2 

To a cupful of chopped boiled ham add a chopped 
dill pickle, half an even teaspoonful of prepared mus- 
tard, and one or two heaping spoonfuls of chopped 
walnut meats. Mix well and spread between buttered 
bread slices. 



Ham Sandwich No. 3 

To a cupful of minced boiled ham add a little minced 
celery and two spoonfuls of thick cream. Mix well and 
spread between lettuce leaves and buttered white bread 
slices. 



Meat Sandwich 

Chop together any or all left-over cold meat, add 
any kind of sour pickles chopped, a bit of mustard, 
and spread on lettuce leaves between slices of buttered 
bread. 



Tower Sandwich 

Take a slice of white bread and spread it with cream 
cheese, on this place a brown slice and spread it with 
chopped pickles and a bit of mayonnaise, and on top 
another slice of white bread. 

1 60 



S A X D W I C H E S 



Pickle Sandwich 

Mince together half a dozen or more olives, a green 
pepper, a pickled onion, a teacupful of grated cheese 
and a little mustard dressing. Spread between lettuce 
leaves and buttered bread slices. 



Meringue Sandwich 

Beat the white of an egg, add a cupful of sugar, half 
a cupful of chopped nuts, half a cupful of chopped 
raisins and a few chopped orange slices. Spread 
between large square crackers and brown in the oven. 
Serve hot or cold. 



Cheese Sandwich 

Take Neufchatel cheese and add an equal amount of 
chopped mixed nut meats with a teaspoonful of salad 
dressing. Spread between lettuce leaves and bread 
slices. 



Beef Sandwich 

Any cold cooked beef chopped fine and mixed with 
a little salad dressing. Spread on lettuce leaves 
between bread slices. 



Imitation Pate de Foie Gras Sandwich 

Remove the skin and bone from sardines and mince 
the sardines with an equal portion of cream cheese. 
Serve between slices of Boston brown or graham 
bread. 



Chocolate Sandwich 

Put a rounding teaspoonful of butter in a saucepan 
and stir into it all the grated bitter chocolate it will 

161 



SANDWICHES 



take up, stir until thoroughly mixed. When cold 
spread on slices of graham bread. 



Neufchatel Sandwich 

Take a small Neufchatel cheese and add a table- 
spoonful of rich cream. Stir to a paste and add a tea- 
spoonful of minced onion with salt and pepper to taste. 
Mix well and spread between crackers, or on lettuce 
leaves between buttered slices of white bread. 



Pepper Sandwich 

Mix together chopped green peppers and cream 
cheese and spread on lettuce leaves between bread 
slices. 



Sardine Sandwich 

A teaspoonful of melted butter, half an even tea- 
spoonful of prepared mustard, a dash of cayenne pep- 
per and half a teaspoonful each of lemon juice and 
Worcestershire sauce. Mix thoroughly and spread 
between crisp square crackers. 



Fig Sandwich 

Chop together figs and nut meats and mix with a 
little salad dressing. Serve on lettuce leaves between 
buttered slices of white bread. 



Egg Sandwich 

Slices of hard boiled egg, chopped celery hearts and 
a bit of mustard dressing. Spread on lettuce leaves 
between buttered slices of white bread. 

' 162 



SANDWICHES 



Date Sandwich 

Spread chopped dates between ginger snaps. 



Prune Sandwich 

Chop stewed prunes with walnut meats and olives. 
Spread between buttered slices of graham bread. 



Banana Sandwich 

Slice two bananas in rounds. Pour over them two 
tablespoonfuls of lemon juice, a teaspoonful of honey 
and a tablespoonful of thick cream. Serve at once 
between lettuce leaves on buttered slices of white 
bread. 



Club Sandwich No. i 

A slice of rye bread covered with chopped mixed 
pickles and dressing, on that a slice of toast with a 
piece of crisp fried bacon, then a lettuce leaf with a 
slice of chicken, on top a slice of white bread. 



Club Sandwich No. 2 

Toast a slice of bread from which the crust has been 
removed, butter it and lay on it a crisp leaf of lettuce, 
then a layer of sliced roast chicken, on this a slice of 
fried bacon, a layer of salad dressing, another lettuce 
leaf and a top slice of toast. 



NOTE. When making bread into loaves, half fill 
large greased baking powder or other cans with the 
dough, let it rise and bake for round sandwiches. 

163 



VEGETABLES 

Baked Beans 

Soak a large cupful of navy beans over night. Then 
wash them and put them in a kettle with a cupful of 
tomatoes, a chopped onion and a quarter of a pound 
of salt pork cut in three pieces. Add two cupfuls of 
water and boil until the beans are soft, then pour off 
the liquid, if any remains, and put the beans in a bak- 
ing pan with the pork on top, slices of bacon may be 
used also. Sprinkle the top with flour and sugar and 
bake slowly until brown. 



Boston Baked Beans 

Soak half a pint of navy beans over night. Take a 
bean pot or crockery dish that can be covered, place 
the beans in the pot and in the center put a quarter of 
a pound of salt pork. Pour on this a tablespoonful each 
of vinegar and dark molasses, a pinch of salt, half an 
even teaspoonful of pepper and cover with water. Put 
on the pot lid and bake slowly for half a day. Look 
at it two or three times and add water when necessary. 
Serve hot. 



Creamed Potatoes 

Slice four boiled potatoes. Put a spoonful of butter 
in a saucepan, add a spoonful each of flour and minced 
parsley, do not brown. Add half a cupful or more 
of sweet milk and put in the sliced potatoes. Season 
with salt and pepper, stir carefully and cook for ten 
minutes. 

164 



VEGETABLES 

Potatoes Au-Gratin 

Cut into squares four cold boiled potatoes. Make a 
white sauce with a spoonful of butter in a frying pan 
thickened with a little flour. Add a little milk and 
beat until smooth. Season with salt, pepper, nutmeg 
and half a cupful of grated cheese. Take a greased 
baking dish and put in a layer of potatoes, then sauce, 
potatoes again with sauce on top. Cover the top with 
a layer of crumbs and bake for fifteen or twenty 
minutes. 



Scalloped Potatoes 

Take a baking pan and butter it well. Place a layer 
of thinly sliced potatoes and season with salt, pepper, 
prepared mustard, a spoonful of flour and dots of but- 
ter. Then another layer of potatoes, etc. (about two 
layers of each). Pour over all a cupful of hot milk and 
place on top a thick layer of crumbs. 



Potato Crust 

Cut boiled potatoes into large slices. Stir into an 
egg yolk, some salt, pepper and pieces of butter. Dip 
the potato slices, then roll them in flour and fry in a 
buttered pan, pouring over all, the egg mixture. 



Lyonnaise Potatoes 

Melt a rounding teaspoonful of butter and an equal 
amount of suet. Add a minced onion and cook seven 
minutes. Then put in three sliced boiled potatoes, salt 
and pepper to taste. Fry brown and turn. Garnish 
with a bit of parsley. 

165 



VEGETABLES 



Whipped Potatoes 

Boil and mash the potatoes, then whip with a fork 
adding bits of butter and warm cream, salt and pepper. 
Whip until light. Serve on a hot dish. 



Stuffed Baked Potatoes 

Take the required number of large potatoes and 
bake until soft. Cut lengthwise and dip out the potato 
without breaking the skin. Mash and beat the potatoes 
to a cream with a little hot milk and melted butter. 
Add salt, pepper and grated Parmesan cheese (a heap- 
ing teaspoonful for each potato). Put the mixture in 
the shells, return to the oven until hot and serve. 



Potato Balls 

Take two cupfuls of mashed potatoes and add half 
a cupful of flour that has been sifted with an even tea- 
spoonful of baking powder and a beaten egg. Mix 
well, season with salt and pepper, then make into small 
balls and fry until brown. 



Potato Cakes 

Take two cupfuls of mashed potatoes and mix them 
with a cupful of canned salmon broken into small 
pieces, and a tablespoonful of cooked cornmeal. Stir 
well, shape into little flat cakes and fry. 



Potato Dumplings 

Take a cupful of warm mashed potatoes, a piece of 
butter the size of a hickory nut, an even teaspoonful of 
sugar, half an even teaspoonful of grated nutmeg or 
cinnamon and a pinch of salt. Beat separately the 
yolks and whites of two eggs. Put the yolks with 

166 



V E G E T A P, L E S 

the potatoes and mix thoroughly. Then stir the whites 
in lightly and add enough sifted flour to make a 
dough. Make into small balls. Drop in soup, or fry 
and garnish with parsley. 



Baked Sweet Potatoes 

Boil the potatoes until almost done, remove the skin 
and slice lengthwise. Put them in a buttered baking 
dish, dot with butter and sprinkle with a tablespoonful 
of sugar. Bake until the sugar and butter form a 
syrup. Brown lightly. 



Fried Sweet Potatoes With Sugar 

Take four sweet potatoes that have been boiled, let 
them dry off a moment. Take a frying pan and put in 
it a small cupful of sugar and a piece of butter the size 
of a walnut, and just enough hot water to dissolve the 
sugar. Cook until brown, then put in the peeled 
sweet potatoes and turn them until coated. If the 
potatoes are large, cut them in half before putting 
them in the sugar. Serve hot. 



Scalloped Onions 

Boil onions for a few minutes in water with a pinch 
of soda added. Drain and rinse in hot water. Butter 
a baking dish and place a layer of sliced onions, 
sprinkle with salt, pepper and bits of butter and a layer 
of crumbs. When the dish contains as many layers as 
desired, fill it with sweet milk and bake. 

(This dish may be varied by mixing chopped celery 
with the onions. Other combinations may be used 
also.) 

167 



VEGETABLES 



Scalloped Corn 

Butter a small baking dish and pour into it a cupful 
of canned corn. Take half a cupful of sweet milk and 
stir into it one egg and season with salt, pepper and 
nutmeg. Put a layer of crumbs over the corn and dot 
all over with bits of butter. Pour over the milk mix- 
ture and bake until brown. 



Corn Oysters 

Cut the corn from the cob, or canned corn may be 
used. Chop two small cupfuls, add a beaten egg. 
Make a paste of a heaping teaspoonful of butter, two 
heaping tablespoonfuls of flour and three tablespoon- 
fuls of thick cream. Mix this thoroughly with the 
corn and fry. A spoonful for each "oyster." 



Corn Tamales 

Butter a baking dish and fill it with the following 
mixture. Two small cupfuls of corn, an egg slightly 
beaten, a rounding tablespoonful of butter, a table- 
spoonful each of chopped parsley and green pepper, a 
heaping tablespoonful of cracker crumbs, and half a 
cupful of cream or milk. Stir thoroughly, salt and 
pepper to taste and put in the baking dish with a layer 
of bread crumbs on top well dotted with butter. Bake 
about twenty-five minutes. 



Creamed Parsnips 

Boil the parsnips until tender and slice them. Make 
a sauce of a rounding teaspoonful each of butter, 
chopped parsley and minced celery. Add half an even 
teaspoonful of salt, a dash of pepper and a teaspoonful 

168 



VEGETABLES 



of chopped raisins. Put the mixture in a stewpan with 
the sliced parsnips and cook until hot, then stir in two 
tablespoonfuls of cream. 



Fried Green Tomatoes 

Slice green tomatoes and place them in salt water 
for ten minutes, then drain. Take a frying pan and 
melt a teaspoonful each of lard, suet and butter. Roll 
the tomato slices in flour after salting and peppering 
them well. Brown on both sides. 



Fried Tomatoes 

Slice red ripe tomatoes without peeling them. Fry 
the slices in butter, turning them and sprinkling them 
with salt and pepper. Then place them on a hot plate. 
Put a teaspoonful of flour in the skillet with the hot 
butter, rub to a paste and pour in half a cupful of milk. 
Stir thoroughly and season with salt and pepper. Pour 
the mixture on the fried tomatoes and serve hot. 



Baked Tomatoes 

Butter a baking pan. Wash four medium sized red 
tomatoes, cut a small slice from the stem end of each, 
put in a small piece of American cheese, salt and pep- 
per. Put them in the pan and bake. A little soup 
stock may be put in the pan and the tomatoes basted 
if preferred. 



Stewed Tomatoes 

Pour boiling water over four or five ripe tomatoes, 
leave them for a moment and then peel them. Remove 
the seeds and put them in a stewpan with half an even 
teaspoonful of salt and a pinch of pepper, a piece of 

169 



VEGETABLES 



butter the size of a walnut and a heaping tablespoonful 
of crumbs. Cook for a short time and pour in half a 
cupful of milk to which has been added a pinch of 
saleratus, half a teaspoonful of sugar, and if desired, a 
bit of onion juice. Serve hot. 



Tomato Eggs 

Take large round tomatoes, cut off the top, remove 
enough of the center to permit filling with a fresh egg. 
Season the egg with salt and pepper and put a bit of 
butter on top. Put the tomatoes in a baking pan with 
enough water to half cover them. Bake for half an 
hour. 



Stuffed Tomatoes 

Mix together half a cupful of bread crumbs, half an 
even teaspoonful of salt, pepper, a rounding teaspoon- 
ful each of butter and sugar, a little onion juice to 
flavor if desired, and a bit of grated cheese. Take 
four or five round tomatoes, cut a slice from the stem 
end, scoop out the soft part and a little of the solid, 
but use care and keep the shells firm. Mix the pulp 
with the other ingredients, then fill the shells with the 
mixture, replace the tops and bake slowly for. about 
forty minutes in a well buttered pan, with a little 
water. 



Cabbage 

Chop half of a cabbage head into small bits and cook 
in salted water until tender. Make a paste of a round- 
ing tablespoonful of butter and a heaping tablespoon- 
ful of flour, add half a cupful of rich milk and chopped 

170 



VEGETABLES 



currants or raisins if desired. Stir this mixture with 
the cabbage, cook until hot and serve. Celery may be 
cut fine and cooked with the cabbage. 



Stuffed Cabbage 

Take a small solid head of cabbage, remove the outer 
leaves and carefully hollow out the head, leaving a 
thick wall. Take half a pound of lean beef, grind it 
with an onion, two slices of stale bread (crumbed), 
pepper, an even teaspoonful of salt and two eggs. Stir 
this mixture thoroughly, fill the cabbage, and close 
the top with cabbage leaves. Tie securely in a gauze 
bag and cook until the cabbage is done. Remove the 
cloth and brown in the oven. Serve with sauce or not 
as preferred. 



Creamed Cauliflower 

Boil a small cauliflower until tender, then drain. 
Make the cream by beating three eggs with a round- 
ing teaspoonful of cornstarch and a heaping teaspoon- 
ful of butter (melted slightly). Beat well and add a 
cupful of milk. Pour the mixture in a stewpan and 
cook, stirring all the time. When thick pour it on the 
cauliflower. 



Spinach 

Wash thoroughly, cut off bits of root, rinse several 
times and put in a saucepan with half a teacupful of 
boiling w-ater and salt. Use just enough water to keep 
it from scorching. When it is tender, drain it, add 
pepper and butter. Arrange it on a dish and garnish 
with slices of hard boiled eggs. 

171 



VEGETABLES 



Turnip Souffle 

Take a cupful or more of mashed boiled turnip, rub 
it through a coarse sieve, put it over the fire in a sauce- 
pan and stir in a rounding teaspoonful of butter rubbed 
to a paste with a heaping tablespoonful of flour, and 
salt and pepper to taste. Pour in a cupful of hot milk 
and stir until smooth. Beat three eggs and add the 
mixture gradually, beating steadily. Bake in a but- 
tered pan for half an hour. 



Salsify 

Wash the salsify and boil it until tender, cut it up 
and season it with a rounding tablespoonful of butter, 
a little chopped parsley, salt and pepper. Heat this 
thoroughly and stir in an even tablespoonful of flour, 
and quarter of a cupful of cream. 



Baked Squash 

Cut the squash into pieces, scrape, and bake for an 
hour or more. Serve in the shell with butter. 



Boiled Squash 

Pare the squash, cut it up and remove the seeds. 
Put the pieces in boiling water with a little salt and 
cook until tender. Mash the squash and press it 
through a colander. Season with salt, pepper and 
butter. Cream may be added if desired. 



172 



MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES 

Welsh Rarebit No. 1 

Take a small cupful each of minced cheese and milk 
and put them in a saucepan, cook until the cheese is 
nearly melted, add a bit of prepared mustard and salt 
to taste. Stir in half a cupful of crisp cracker crumbs 
that have been rolled to powder. Serve on toast. 



Welsh Rarebit No. 2 

Take a rounding tablespoonful of butter, half an even 
teaspoonful of salt, a pinch of dry mustard, a pinch of 
paprika and place them in a chafing dish. When hot 
add a cupful each of cream and soft bread crumbs ; 
bring to the boiling point and add a cupful of minced 
cheese. When it melts put in the well-beaten yolks of 
three eggs, stir a moment and add the stiffly beaten 
whites. Pour over hot buttered toast or wafers. 



Baked Spaghetti 

Boil in salted water half a pound or less of spaghetti 
until it is tender, then drain it. Make a sauce by cook- 
ing together a cupful of stewed or canned tomatoes, a 
minced onion and two cloves. Then put in an even 
tablespoonful of butter, a rounding tablespoonful of 
sugar with salt and pepper to taste. Cook about five 
minutes longer and thicken with a little cornstarch 
made into a paste with cold water. Put a layer of the 
spaghetti in a buttered baking pan, then a layer of the 
sauce, covered by a thin layer of grated cheese. Bake 
for about twenty minutes. 

1/3 



MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES 

Macaroni 

Put a cupful of broken macaroni into a quart or 
more of boiling salted water and cook until tender, 
then drain. 

Have ready a sauce made by cooking together in a 
saucepan, a rounding tablespoonful each of butter and 
flour. Pour in two cupfuls of milk, and stir until 
smooth and when it begins to thicken season with salt 
and pepper and stir in the macaroni. Serve hot. 



Macaroni Au-Gratin 

Melt a rounding tablespoonful of butter and stir in 
a heaping tablespoonful of flour. Make a smooth 
paste and stir in two small cupfuls of sweet milk. Salt 
and pepper to taste. When it boils add a cupful of 
cooked macaroni and half a cupful of grated cheese. 
Put the mixture in a buttered baking dish and sprinkle 
over a layer of crumbs and dots of butter. Bake until 
brown. 



Chafing Dish Cheese 

Make a paste, in a saucepan, of a rounding table- 
spoonful of butter and a heaping tablespoonful of flour, 
half an even teaspoonful of salt and a dash of pepper. 
Pour in three or four large spoonfuls of cream; stir 
until smooth, then add a cupful of stewed tomatoes 
that have been put through a sieve, and a cupful of 
grated cheese. Keep stirring and add a beaten egg. 
Serve on toast or crackers. 



Cheese Cake 

Take two cupfuls of cottage cheese, add a rounding 
teaspoonful of butter creamed with a heaping table- 

174 



MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES 

spoonful of sugar, a pinch of salt, the beaten yolks of 
two eggs, a pinch of grated lemon rind, a pinch of 
grated nutmeg and half a cupful of cream. Stir well 
and add the beaten egg whites, and a teaspoonful of 
lemon juice. Bake in a lower crust of pastry. 



Sausage Biscuit 

Make a rich biscuit dough, roll it out until less than 
half an inch thick, cut in eight-inch squares; put in a 
filling of country sausage (or remove the skin from 
stuffed sausage), fold over each corner until it reaches 
the middle, pinch the edges together and bake in 
greased tins. 



Chili Con Carne 

Take a small piece of round steak, cut it into small 
pieces and fry it in hot drippings with a little cooked 
rice or not as preferred and a tablespoonful of flour. 
Add pepper water, a clove, a bit of garlic and thyme. 
Simmer until the meat is tender. If not thick enough, 
add more flour that has been made into a paste with a 
little water. 

Pepper Water: Remove the seeds from two dried 
red peppers, cover them with boiling water and sim- 
mer until soft. The cooked peppers need not be used. 



Baked Bananas 

Butter a baking pan and place in it six small bananas 

that have been peeled and cut in half, lengthwise. Dot 

them over with butter and bake until a light brown. 

(Bananas may be baked in their skins the same as 

potatoes.) 

175 



MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES 

Boiled Bananas 

Boil bananas in their skins about ten minutes and 
then peel and serve with cream, or sweet sauce. 



Scrapple 

Boil a cleaned pig's head until the flesh leaves the 
bones. When the meat is cold chop it fine. Remove 
the grease from the top of the cold liquid in which the 
head was cooked. Strain the liquid and put it over the 
fire. When it boils put in the chopped meat, and 
season highly with salt, pepper and a little onion juice; 
boil again and thicken it with cornmeal to a mushlike 
consistency. Let it cook slowly and stir constantly for 
twenty minutes. Turn down the fire and cook thirty 
or forty minutes longer, stirring often enough to keep 
it from burning. Then pour it into a shallow pan and 
when cold cut it in slices and fry. 

(Fat fresh pork may be used instead of the head.) 



Salted Peanuts 

Skin roasted peanuts, put a cupful into a baking 
pan with a teaspoonful of melted butter. Stir them 
well, let them brown, then sprinkle with salt. Stir 
thoroughly and let them cool. Then turn into a sieve 
and shake lightly to remove the superfluous salt. 



Blanched Almonds 

Pour boiling water over the almonds. Let it get 
cold, then remove the almond skins. 



176 



PICKLES 

Chili Sauce 

Take ten ripe tomatoes, three chopped onions, three 
red peppers, an even teaspoonful of salt, two small 
cupfuls of vinegar and a scant cupful of granulated 
sugar. Stew until soft, put it through a sieve and 
bottle. 



Apple Catsup 

Stew two quarts of sliced apples and two green or 
red peppers with a large cupful of water. When soft 
strain through a sieve. Season the juice with salt and 
a teaspoonful of pepper and a tablespoonful of lemon 
juice, half an even teaspoonful each of ground cinna- 
mon and cloves (put the spice in a bag) and let the 
liquid simmer until thick ; then add half a cupful of 
sugar and a cupful of vinegar. Let it boil up quickly 
and then bottle it. 



Cranberry Catsup 

Take a pint of cranberries, a cupful of vinegar and 
half a cupful of water, put them over the fire in a 
kettle. Fill a little cloth bag with the following: 

Two cloves, two \vhole allspice, a pinch of mace, a 
small stick of cinnamon, broken. Put the bag in the 
kettle and bring to a boil, then cook slowly until the 
cranberries are soft. Put through a colander, add a 
cupful of brown sugar, heat again and seal. 

177 



PICKLES 



Tomato Catsup 

Stew two quarts of ripe tomatoes and two red or 
green peppers. When soft strain through a sieve. Tie 
in a cloth bag the following: a spoonful of whole black 
pepper, a teaspoonful of ground cinnamon, half a tea- 
spoonful each of allspice and ground cloves. Put the 
bag in the juice and let it simmer over the fire until 
thick. Then add half a cupful of sugar and a cupful 
of vinegar. Boil up quickly and bottle. 



Tomato Relish 

Take two cupfuls of stewed tomatoes; pour off the 
liquid and add to the pulp a minced onion, a minced 
celery heart, half an even teaspoonful of ground mus- 
tard, an even teaspoonful of ground cinnamon, salt to 
taste, two heaping teaspoonfuls of sugar and half a 
cupful of vinegar. Mix well and let it come to a boil. 
Put it in a fruit jar. 



Cucumber Chili 

Take six ripe cucumbers, pare them and remove the 
seeds. Sprinkle with salt and let them stand all day; 
then drain and add two large onions minced, a minced 
pepper and half an even teaspoonful of ground black 
pepper. Mix well and cook with a cupful of vinegar 
and an even teaspoonful of ground mustard. Put in 
a jar with several pieces of horse radish. 



Worcestershire Sauce 

Take a pint of peeled, sliced apples and a pint of 
sliced tomatoes. Chop together half a cupful or more 
of raisins and an onion. Put them with the apples and 
tomatoes in a kettle and add a minced pepper and a 

178 



PICKLES 



rounding teaspoonful each of ground cinnamon and 
allspice and an even teaspoonful of ground cloves. 
Pour in three cupfuls of vinegar, a cupful of water and 
a cupful of dark molasses. Stir all together and bring 
it to a boil : then let it simmer slowly for several hours, 
until very soft, boil once more, strain through cheese- 
cloth and bottle. 



Green Corn and Cabbage 

Take twelve ears of corn and slice it off the cob, 
three large onions, a small solid head of cabbage, 
chopped, six celery stalks, three red peppers, a round- 
ing tablespoonful of salt, six cupfuls of vinegar, three 
cupfuls of brown sugar. Chop and mix thoroughly 
all the ingredients and boil for twenty-five minutes, 
then add two heaping teaspoonfuls of mustard dis- 
solved in vinegar. Put it into jars and seal. 



Canned Cucumbers No. i 

Peel the green cucumbers and cut them in round 
slices. Take fruit jars, put in a layer of rock salt, 
then a layer of cucumbers ; repeat until the jar is full. 
On top put a layer of salt half an inch deep. Seal. 

Rinse the salt out thoroughly before using, and 
serve the same as fresh cucumbers. 



Canned Cucumbers No. 2 

Take two dozen cucumbers, pare and slice in wheels, 
and a cupful of sliced white onions, or small whole 
ones. Add a cupful of salt and let them stand several 
hours, then drain. 

Take half a cupful of sweet oil, one-third of a cupful 
of white mustard seed, a teaspoonful of celery seed 

179 



PICKLES 



and two and one-half cupfuls of cider vinegar. Put 
the cucumbers and onions in this. Mix well and put 
(cold) into jars; let it overflow and then seal. 



Mustard No. i 

Dry mustard mixed with vinegar to make a thin 
paste. 



Mustard No. 2 

Take a rounding tablespoonful of mustard powder 
and two rounding tablespoonfuls of sugar, mix and 
add either the well beaten yolk or white of an egg; 
and half a cupful or less of vinegar. Cook until thick 
and when cold stir into it a spoonful of salad oil. 



French Mustard 

Take a heaping tablespoonful of mustard powder, a 
dessertspoonful of olive oil, half an even teaspoonful 
each of salt and sugar, and a teaspoonful of tarragon 
vinegar. Beat until smooth. A bit of onion juice 
may be added, also the oil may be omitted and more 
vinegar used. Keep in a corked jar. 



Mustard Pickles 

Take two quarts of small cucumbers and put them 
in a glass jar. Mix thoroughly together three pints 
of vinegar, half a cupful each of salt, sugar and dry- 
mustard, and pour it over the cucumbers until it 
overflows, then seal. 



Pickles 

Fill glass jars with small cucumbers, or onions, 
put a few pieces of horse radish root in each jar, and 
cover to overflowing with good cold vinegar; seal. 

1 80 



PICKLES 



Pickled Green Peppers, Stuffed 

Cut the tops from a dozen green peppers, clean out 
the seeds and membrane and soak the peppers in 
strong brine for a couple of days. Then drain and put 
them in ice water for several hours. 

Make a stuffing by mixing together a cupful of 
finely chopped cabbage, two rounding tablespoonfuls 
of horse radish, a rounding teaspoonful of minced 
onion, a dozen whole black peppers, or half an even 
teaspoonful of ground pepper, an even teaspoonful of 
dry mustard, an even teaspoonful of celery seed, a 
rounding teaspoonful of brown sugar, half an even 
teaspoonful each of powdered mace, nutmeg and 
ginger, and a tablespoonful of salad oil. 

Fill the peppers, tie on the tops, put in crocks, and 
cover with boiling vinegar. After a week reboil the 
vinegar and pour over the pickles and put a weight 
on top. 

Stuffed Peppers 

Cut the tops from a dozen green peppers, remove 
the seeds and soak the peppers in strong brine for 
three hours. 

Make a filling by mixing together the following 
ingredients : 

Three finely chopped sour apples, 

Half a cupful each of chopped seeded raisins, cur- 
rants and finely crushed almonds, 

A heaping teaspoonful of finely chopped citron, a 
rounding teaspoonful of ground cinnamon, half an 
even teaspoonful each of ground cloves, nutmeg and 
salt, 

Half a cupful of vinegar and half a cupful of sugar. 

181 



PICKLES 



Boil this mixture, rinse the peppers, and fill them. 
Fasten on the tops, pack in a jar, and pour hot 
vinegar over them. 



Green Tomato Hash 

Mince two quarts of green tomatoes, a cupful of 
chopped seeded raisins, two minced onions, three sour 
apples, a minced green pepper, two heaping spoonfuls 
of chopped candied lemon and orange peeling, an even 
tablespoonful each of salt and mustard powder, and 
a pint of good vinegar. Mix thoroughly and boil for 
an hour and a half, or more. Bottle and seal. 



Watermelon Pickle 

Take the rind from half of a large melon. Pare off 
the green and red and cut into small square or oblong 
pieces. Cover with water. Put in two tablespoonfuls 
of salt, and let it stand all night. Then pour off the 
brine, put the rind into a kettle with a little fresh 
water, and cook it until clear and tender. 

Make a syrup by boiling two cupfuls each of vinegar 
and sugar and pour it in the kettle, which should con- 
tain about a cupful of the water in which the rind 
was cooked. Put in a bag of spice and cook for twenty 
minutes, then seal. 



Pickled Onions 

Take the desired quantity of small white onions, 
remove the outer peeling and cover them with salt 
water. Let them stand two days. Drain and put in 
fresh water for several hours. Drain again and pack 
the onions in jars and fill the jars to overflowing with 
boiling vinegar. Seal. 

182 



PRESERVES 

Canned Rhubarb 

Wash the rhubarb, peel the older stalks, cut in small 
pieces and put it in a kettle with a cupful of water, let 
it cook slowly. To one quart of rhubarb, add a small 
lemon sliced, and a large cupful of sugar (more or 
less). Boil and can. 



Canned Pineapple 

Peel and cut out the eyes and slice the pineapple : 
drop the slices into cold water as soon as cut. Cook 
the pineapple in a little water until tender; skim the 
liquid. Take out the pineapple and put sugar in the 
water. (The proportion is two cupfuls of sliced pine- 
apple to one and one-half cupfuls of sugar.) Boil and 
skim when necessary. Put the fruit back into the 
syrup, boil for ten or twelve minutes. Fill the jar until 
it overflows, then seal it. 



Canned Peaches 

Peel, cut in halves and remove the stones from 
peaches. Put the halves in cold water as soon as 
cut. Put a cupful of water into a preserving kettle 
and a layer of peaches, sprinkle lightly with sugar: 
a second layer sprinkled with sugar, etc. Bring slowly 
to the boiling point and then boil about ten minutes. 
Fill the can till it overflows and seal at once. 



Canned Small Fruits 

Pack glass jars full of berries and to each pint jar 
put in half a cupful of sugar and fill to the top with 
cold water. 

183 



PRESERVES 



Put hay or cloths in the bottom of a boiler, set in 
the cans, fill the boiler with cold water, nearly to the 
top of the jars. Put on the boiler lid and boil until 
the fruit is tender. Seal at once and stand upside 
down for a day. 



Cranberries No. i 

Pick over and wash the cranberries. Pack the nice 
whole ones into cans, fill the can to overflowing with 
cold water, and seal. Keep in a cool place. 



Cranberries No. 2 

To two cupfuls of cleaned cranberries add one cup- 
ful of sugar and one cupful of boiling water. Put 
them in a porcelain kettle and stir to mix the sugar. 
When they swell mash them against the kettle until 
all are broken. Keep them boiling all the time. Whsn 
all are mashed turn them into dishes. 



Watermelon Rind Preserves 

Cut off the thin green part and the soft inside part 
of the rind, then cut the rind in small pieces. Put 
them in a preserving kettle, cover well with water 
and cook until tender. Remove the rind and add 
water if there is not enough liquid for syrup. To 
two cupfuls of liquid use one and two-thirds cupfuls 
of sugar, and flavor with a tablespoonful of lemon 
juice and boiled ginger root. Boil the syrup and put 
in the rind, heat it thoroughly, put into jars and seal. 



Preserved Quince 

Take the desired number of quinces, pare, core and 
quarter them. Place them in a preserving kettle with 

184 



PRESERVES 



just enough water to cover them. Cook slowly until 
soft, then take them out carefully and spread them on 
plates to cool. Put the peelings into the kettle with 
the juice and stew slowly for an hour. Strain the 
liquid through a cloth, return it to the kettle with an 
equal amount of sugar, heat it and put in the quinces. 
Bring it to a boil and skim it, then pack the fruit in 
jars and fill to overflowing with the boiling syrup. 



Strawberry Preserves 

Take an equal amount of sugar and strawberries. 
Rinse the strawberries slightly with cold water and 
mix them with the sugar in a preserving kettle. Let 
them stand on the warm range until the sugar melts, 
then boil for fifteen or twenty minutes. Remove the 
berries, boil the syrup again and skim it. Put back the 
berries, bring to a boil and can. 



Apple Jam 

Make a syrup of two pounds of brown sugar and 
enough water to dissolve it. Add a peeled sliced 
lemon and a little ginger root or cinnamon. Boil the 
syrup and skim it, then put in two pounds of peeled 
and finely chopped sour apples. Boil until the apples 
are clear and soft. Put into jelly glasses. 



Jam No. i 

Take two quarts of ripe cherries, remove the pits. 
Put the fruit in a kettle with a cupful of seeded raisins, 
four pounds of granulated sugar and the chopped rind 
and pulp of four oranges. Boil for about three- 
quarters of an hour. 

185 



PRESERVES 



Jam No. 2 

Two quarts of pitted plums, a pound of seeded 
raisins, two oranges and one lemon. Grate the orange 
and lemon rind and chop all the ingredients together; 
add an equal amount of sugar and boil until the fruit 
is soft. Put in jelly glasses. 



Apple Butter 

Take the desired amount of cider and boil it until 
it is reduced one-third of the original quantity. Put 
in as many peeled and sliced apples as it will cover; 
simmer until the apples are soft, then take a skimmer 
and remove the apples. Put more sliced apples in 
the cider, and do this until all the cider is absorbed. 
Let the cooked apples stand until the next day, then 
put them in a preserving kettle and heat thoroughly. 
Season with spice if preferred. Put in stone jars. 



Tomato Butter 

Cook the desired amount of tomatoes, put them 
through a sieve, add sugar and spice to taste, and 
cook until thick. 



Pumpkin Butter 

Take a yellow pumpkin, pare it and cut in small 
pieces. Weigh the pieces and to each pound of pump- 
kin put in a pound of sugar, and orange and lemon. 
Chop very fine and cook until soft. Put through a 
sieve and return to the fire. Spice may be added if 
desired. Put in glasses and cover with melted 
paraffine. 

186 



PRESERVES 



Gooseberry Marmalade 

Make a proportion of two-thirds gooseberries to 
one-third of orange pulp. Add a pint of water to a 
pound of fruit ; cook until soft. Put through a sieve 
and to each pound of fruit add a pound and a quarter 
of granulated sugar. Cook until it jellies, skimming 
when necessary. Put in jelly glasses. 

(Raspberries may be used instead of oranges.) 



Orange Marmalade 

Make a proportion of six oranges to two lemons. 
To each pound of sliced fruit add a pint of cold water 
and one and one-quarter pounds of granulated sugar. 
Cook until it jellies ; put into glasses. 



Rhubarb Marmalade 

Take two pounds of rhubarb, peeled and cut in 
small pieces, two pounds of sugar, the pulp and grated 
rind of three oranges and one lemon. Cook with a 
cupful of water until well done. Put into jelly glasses. 



Fruit Jelly 

Make bags of thin muslin with a tape loop at the 
top and one near the bottom. Wash the fruit and 
put it in a porcelain or granite kettle with a cupful of 
water and boil until the juice is extracted. Pour it 
into the bags and hang them over a large dish to 
drain. Then put the juice in the kettle, let it boil, 
and add an equal amount of heated sugar. Boil a few 
minutes and fill the glasses. Put a silver spoon in the 
glasses and set them on a folded newspaper while 
filling. 

187 



PRESERVES 



Cranberry Jelly 

Wash a quart of cranberries and put them while 
wet into a double boiler. Cover and cook until soft. 
Put them through a coarse sieve, return to the fire, 
sweeten to taste and turn into a wet mold to form. 



Apple Jelly 

Slice apples without peeling them and put them in 
a preserving kettle with just enough water to keep 
them from scorching. Cook slowly until the apples 
are soft. Fill the bags and hang them over a dish to 
drain. Clear jelly is made without squeezing the bag. 

To each pint of juice use a pound of sugar and the 
juice of half a lemon. Boil the juice for fifteen min- 
utes, skim, and add the heated sugar. Boil up once 
and pour into the glasses. 



Grape Jelly 

Wash the grapes and put them in a preserving kettle 
with a small cupful of water. Cover and let simmer 
until the fruit is cooked. Fill the bags and drain into 
a dish. Put the juice into a kettle, let it boil for fifteen 
minutes, skim it and add heated sugar, a pound of 
sugar to a pint of juice. Let it boil up once, then 
pour into glasses. 



Currant Jelly 

Wash the currants, crush them and strain through 
a thin bag. Take the juice and let it boil. Add a 
cupful of heated sugar to a cupful of juice. Let it 
boil once, and pour into glasses. 

188 



PRESERVES 



White Jelly (For Immediate Use) 

Dissolve one-quarter of a box of gelatin in half a 
cupful of cold water. When entirely dissolved, add 
half a cupful of boiling water and stand it in a warm 
place. Put in half a cupful of granulated sugar and 
the juice of one lemon. When the sugar is entirely 
dissolved, beat the white of one egg until very stiff, 
and beat it into the mixture, a spoonful at a time, 
slow r ly and thoroughly. Then set it on the ice until 
served. 



Pineapple Jelly With Nuts 

Take half a cupful of crushed nut meats, a sliced 
banana, the juice of one lemon, and a cupful of grated 
pineapple. Dissolve one-quarter of a box of gelatin 
in half a cupful of cold water. When dissolved add a 
cupful of boiling water and half a cupful of sugar (or 
less). Strain and let it stand until it begins to thicken, 
then add the pineapple mixture and the well beaten 
whites of two eggs. Beat all thoroughly ; set on ice. 
Whipped cream may be served with this. 



Mint Jelly 

Take a cupful of mint and parsley mixed. Wash 
thoroughly, chop fine, and steep with two cupfuls of 
boiling water for ten minutes or longer. Strain, and 
add a cupful of sugar to each cupful of liquid, with a 
teaspoonful of lemon juice. Boil until it jellies and 
put into glasses. 

Bar Le Due 

Select large currants and remove the stems. To half 
a pound of fruit allow one and one-half pounds of 

189 



PRESERVES 



sugar. Take other currants and crush them. Take a 
cupful of juice from the crushed currants, put it in a 
preserving kettle with one and one-half pounds of 
sugar. Simmer slowly, dissolve the sugar without 
water if you can. Then drop into the syrup the half 
pound of currants. Cook a few minutes, slowly. 
Strain carefully, that the currants may remain whole. 
Boil the syrup until thick, skim, put in the currants 
carefully, let it boil up once, and pour into glasses. 



Peanut Butter No. i 

Skin roasted peanuts and grind them. To each 
cupful of ground peanuts add half a cupful of butter 
and rub to a smooth paste. 



Peanut Butter No. 2 

Beat an egg thoroughly with half a cupful of sugar, 
an even teaspoonful of prepared mustard, half an even 
teaspoonful of salt, four tablespoonfuls of vinegar and 
half a cupful of the peanut paste as given in No. I 
recipe. Boil until it thickens and then beat with a 
iork until light. 



Candied Peel 

Take lemon or orange rinds, clean out the inside 
and put the rinds in cold water; boil five minutes, 
drain, then cover them with boiling water and cook 
until tender enough to be pierced by a straw. 

Make a syrup of a cupful of sugar and half a cupful 
of water. Remove the rind from the water and place 
it in the syrup and boil until transparent. Drain and 
roll in sugar, or dry the peeling and pour over it the 

190 



PRESERVES 



syrup that has been boiled until it begins to 
granulate. 

Grape Juice No. 1 

Wash the grapes and remove the stems. Place the 
grapes in a preserving kettle with a little water (not 
quite enough to cover them). Bring them slowly to 
a boil, and when broken and soft put them in bags to 
drain. Put the juice back on the fire, sweeten to 
taste, boil, and seal in bottles. 



Grape Juice No. 2 

Wash the grapes, place them in a double boiler and 
steam until soft. Put them in a cheese cloth bag to 
drain. Bottle the unsweetened juice, and seal. 



191 



CANDY 

Taffy No. i 

Mix together half a cupful of condensed cream, a 
rounding teaspoonful of butter and three cupfuls of 
brown sugar. Add half a cupful of crushed walnut 
meats. Boil until it will form when dropped in cold 
water, then pour into buttered pans, and when cold 
cut into desired pieces. 



Taffy No. 2 

Boil two cupfuls of molasses for about twenty 
minutes; stir in an even teaspoonful of saleratus and 
boil until a bit dropped in cold water is brittle. Keep 
stirring and add a teaspoonful of vinegar. Pour it into 
buttered pans. 

Nut meats may be stirred in if desired. 



Molasses Candy No. i 

Take a cupful of molasses and a cupful of brown 
sugar, a piece of butter the size of a walnut, and a 
tablespoonful of vinegar. Boil until a bit dropped in 
cold water becomes brittle, then stir into it half an 
even teaspoonful of saleratus and pour into buttered 
pans to cool. 



Molasses Candy No. 2 

Dissolve a cupful of granulated sugar with half a 
cupful of vinegar, and put it into a granite kettle 
with a quart of molasses. Boil it until a bit dropped 
into cold water will harden. Then stir into the syrup 
a rounding tablespoonful of butter and an even table- 

192 



C A X D Y 

spoonful of saleratus, and beat it thoroughly. Then 
remove it from the fire and pour it into a well buttered 
pan. When cool enough, butter the hands well and 
pull the candy. 



Candied Fruit 

Cherries. Boil two cupfuls of granulated sugar 
with half a cupful of water; do not stir it. "When a 
bit dropped in w r ater is brittle remove the vessel from 
the fire and set it in one containing boiling water. 
Take a clean hatpin and with it dip each cherry in the 
hot syrup, then lay it on waxed or buttered paper to 
dry. Grapes and nuts may be dipped in the same syrup 
also. 



Candied Citron 

Peel the citron and cut it into pieces of the desired 
size. To each pound of citron use a pound of sugar 
and a cupful of water. Put the sugar and water in a 
pan over the fire ; when the sugar melts add the citron 
and a little ginger root. Cook until the citron is 
tender, then remove the citron and spread it on plat- 
ters. Boil the syrup until thick, flavor with lemon, and 
put in the citron. Stir it until it is well cooked, then 
put it on waxed paper to dry. 



Caramels 

Take a granite pan and put into it two cupfuls of 
granulated sugar and half a cupful of water. AYhen 
the sugar dissolves stir into it a pinch of cream of 
tartar; stir steadily, and when a bit dropped in cold 
water can be worked to a paste, beat into it a tea- 

193 



CANDY 



spoonful of vanilla or lemon, remove from the fire, 
and when cool enough pull and knead it. Roll it into a 
sheet and sprinkle with sugar, roll again, and cut into 
squares. 



Chocolate Caramels No. i 

Take half a cupful of molasses and two cupfuls of 
brown sugar, half a cake of bitter chocolate, half 
a cupful of cream and half a cupful of butter. Cook 
together until a bit dropped in water will harden, then 
pour it into a buttered pan, and when cool cut it into 
squares. 

Chocolate Caramels No. 2 

Take a cupful of molasses, half a cupful each of 
brown sugar and cream, a rounding teaspoonful of 
butter and a quarter of a pound of chocolate. Boil 
and stir well and when a bit dropped into cold water 
will harden pour it into a buttered pan. When cool 
cut it into squares. 



Cocoanut Caramels 

Take two cupfuls of granulated sugar and half a 
cupful of thin cream or milk and boil ten minutes. 
Then add a cupful of grated cocoanut, boil again about 
ten minutes and pour it on a buttered dish. When 
partly cool cut into shapes. 



Maple Caramels 

Take three cupfuls of brown sugar and half a cupful 
of maple syrup, a cupful of cream and a rounding 
tablespoonful of butter. Cook them together until a 

194 



C A N D V 

spoonful dropped in water to cool can be worked into 
soft paste, then pour it into well buttered dishes, and 
when cool enough cut it into squares. 



Syrup Caramels 

Take a cupful each of corn syrup and thin cream, 
two cupfuls of sugar and a rounding teaspoonful of 
butter. Boil this mixture until a bit dropped in water 
will harden. Remove it from the fire and beat it well. 
Crushed nuts may be added if desired. Then pour it 
into a buttered pan to cool. Cut into squares. 



Cocoanut Creams 

Take the milk from a small cocoanut and put it into 
a porcelain kettle with two cupfuls of sugar and beat 
slowly until the sugar is melted, then let it simmer for 
ten minutes. Stir in the grated cocoanut and keep 
stirring the mixture, boiling slowly for about ten 
minutes. Pour it into a buttered pan and let it harden 
for about a day. 



Cream Candy No. i 

Take a porcelain pan and place in it two cupfuls 
of sugar, one cupful of water, half an even teaspoonful 
of cream of tartar and put it over the fire. Stir until 
the sugar is dissolved, then boil slowly without stir- 
ring until a bit dropped in cold water will harden. 
Pour into a buttered dish and when cool enough pull 
with well buttered hands. 



Cream Candy No. 2 

Take the well beaten white of an egg, a tablespoon- 
ful each of milk and cream, and a tablespoonful of 

195 



CANDY 



vanilla. Add pulverized sugar to make a stiff dough, 
and mould it into the desired shapes. Nuts may be 
placed on top. 



Frosted Creams 

Take a cupful of molasses, an egg, half a cupful of 
butter, a rounding teaspoonful of saleratus, half a cup- 
ful of brown sugar, an even teaspoonful of salt, a 
teaspoonful each of ground cinnamon and ginger. 
Beat all together with half a cupful of hot water and 
add enough flour to make a soft dough. Bake in a 
buttered pan and frost, then cut into squares. Any 
preferred frosting may be used as for cake. 



Chocolate Creams 

Beat the white of an egg until it is stiff. Add con- 
fectioners' sugar to make a dough that may be rolled. 
Flavor with half a teaspoonful of vanilla. Beat it 
well and roll it into small balls ; place these on waxed 
paper. 

Melt several spoonfuls of grated chocolate by put- 
ting it in a double boiler, then dip each ball until it is 
coated, and then place on buttered plates or waxed 
paper to harden. Let them stand about half an hour. 



Chocolate Coating 

Another way of making a cholocate coating for 
candy is to melt three heaping tablespoonfuls of 
crushed chocolate, and stir into it three tablespoonfuls 
of cream, an even teaspoonful of sugar and a table- 
spoonful of water. Boil for five or six minutes, remove 
it from the fire, and dip the candy into it. 

196 



C A X D V 

French Candy (Uncooked) 

Take as many egg whites as desired and an equal 
quantity of cream or cold water. Beat the egg whites 
thoroughly, add the cream, and stir in slowly very 
fine confectioners' sugar until of the consistency of 
stiff dough. Knead it on a marble glass surface (the 
more it is kneaded and beaten, the better it will be), 
add vanilla or any preferred flavoring, and make it 
into balls or any desired form. 

These forms may be finished in many ways. Put a 
nut meat on top and press it slightly. Candied fruit 
may be used; cocoanut, chocolate, etc., make a delight- 
ful coating. 



Candy Kisses 

Put the whites of three eggs into a deep dish and 
beat them until very stiff, with a cupful or more of 
sugar. Add gradually a cupful of nuts and half a 
teaspoonful of vanilla. Drop in spoonfuls in a pan 
and bake to a golden brown. 



Chocolate Fudge No. i 

Take two cupfuls of granulated sugar, half of a 
cupful of milk or cream, and half of a cupful of crushed 
chocolate. Put them in a granite dish and boil for five 
minutes, beat until thick, remove it from the fire, and 
stir in a teaspoonful of vanilla. 



Chocolate Fudge No. 2 

Take half a cupful of crushed chocolate, half a cup- 
ful of milk and half a cupful of molasses. Put them 
in a granite pan and boil until a bit hardens in cold 

197 



CANDY 



water, then remove from the fire and add a teaspoon- 
ful of vanilla. Beat until it granulates, then pour on 
buttered plates. 



Chocolate Fudge No. 3 

Take a cupful of granulated sugar, a rounding tea- 
spoonful of butter, half a cupful of cream and a round- 
ing tablespoonful of crushed chocolate. Put them into 
a granite saucepan and stir until all are blended. Boil 
a few moments, dip a little into a dish, stir it, and if 
it creams, remove the candy from the fire, beat it until 
nearly cool, and pour it into buttered pans. 



Cocoanut Fudge 

Take two cupfuls of white sugar, one cupful of 
milk, a rounding teaspoonful of butter, half of a cocoa- 
nut grated, or prepared cocoanut, and a teaspoonful 
of lemon juice. Boil the mixture until a bit dropped 
in water will harden, then pour it into buttered pans, 
and when nearly cold cut it into the desired shapes. 



Maple Fudge No. i 

Boil three cupfuls of maple syrup with a rounding 
teaspoonful of butter. When a bit dropped in cold 
water becomes brittle, remove it from the fire and beat 
it until granulation begins, then pour it into buttered 
pans and cut into squares. 



Maple Fudge No. 2 

Take a pound of maple sugar and break it into small 
pieces. Add a cupful of milk and an even tablespoon- 
ful of butter. Put it over the fire and let it boil until 
a bit dropped in water will harden. Remove it from 

198 



CANDY 

the fire and beat it until it begins to granulate. Put 
it on buttered plates, and when nearly cold cut it into 
squares. 



Opera Fudge 

Take two squares of bitter chocolate, two cupfuls 
of granulated sugar, half a cupful of sweet cream, 
thinned with two or three spoonfuls of hot water. 
Put the mixture over the fire and boil, stirring fre- 
quently. Take a small bit in a buttered spoon, and 
if it hardens when cold remove it from the fire, and 
when cool beat it until it becomes thick and smooth, 
then make it into small balls. 



Nut Fudge 

Make the candy after the recipe for opera fudge, 
and after removing it from the fire stir into it the 
desired quantity of crushed hickory nuts. Cut into 
squares. 



Fudge Sandwiches 

Cut marshmallows in halves and put a square of 
marshmallow fudge between layers of marshmallow 
slices. 



Marshmallow Fudge 

Take two squares of chocolate and crush or grate it, 
two cupfuls of granulated sugar, a cupful of milk, a 
rounding teaspoonful of butter and five marsh- 
mallows. Place all in a granite pan and boil until 
a bit dropped into water will harden. Beat until stiff, 
and pour into buttered pans. Cut into squares. 

9 



CANDY 



Pall Mall Fudge 

Take a granite saucepan and put into it a cupful 
each of dark brown sugar and granulated sugar, two 
tablespoonfuls of molasses, a pinch of saleratus, four 
tablespoonfuls of thick cream, two tablespoonfuls of 
melted butter. Put it over the fire and let it boil for 
three minutes, then add a rounding teaspoonful of 
crushed chocolate. Boil rapidly for five minutes, stir- 
ring constantly. Turn down the fire and let the mix- 
ture simmer a few minutes more, then stir into it a 
teaspoonful of vanilla. When it begins to cool, beat 
it until thick. Pour into buttered pans, and when it 
is nearly cold cut it into squares. 



Peanut Candy No. i 

Skin and crush three cupfuls of peanuts and heat 
them in the oven. Melt a cupful of granulated sugar 
in a granite pan, stirring constantly. Then stir in the 
hot peanuts and pour into buttered pans. 



Peanut Candy No. 2 

Spread two cupfuls of skinned peanuts over well 
buttered pans. Melt three cupfuls of sugar and pour 
it over the peanuts. Mark into squares. 

Peanut Brittle 

Put into a granite pan a cupful each of mclasses 
and brown sugar, a rounding teaspoonful of butter 
and a teaspoonful of vinegar. Boil until a bit dropped 
into cold water hardens. Then stir into it a cupful of 
skinned peanuts and a pinch of saleratus. Remove it 
from the fire, pour into buttered pans and cut it into 
desired shapes. 

200 



CANDY 



Walnut Candy 

Boil together a cupful of milk and three cupfuls of 
brown sugar. When a bit dropped in cold water be- 
comes brittle, put in a piece of butter the size of a 
walnut, and a teaspoonful of vanilla. Turn out the 
fire and stir in a cupful of broken walnut meats. 
When cool enough make it into marbles. 



Butter-Scotch No. 1 

Take a granite pan and put into it two cupfuls of 
sugar, one cupful of water and three teaspoonfuls of 
vinegar. Let it boil and put into it two heaping table- 
spoonfuls of butter. When a bit dropped into cold 
water hardens, pour it into buttered pans and mark it 
into squares. 



Butter-Scotch No. 2 

Take two cupfuls of powdered sugar and half a 
cupful of rich milk. Add three heaping tablespoonfuls 
of butter and work the ingredients together. Then 
boil the mixture until a bit when cool can be formed 
into a ball. Remove it from the fire, add a teaspoon- 
ful of flavoring, and pour it on buttered plates. 



Candy Jelly 

Take four teaspoonfuls of gelatin, cover it with 
water to dissolve. Put in a granite pan with a cupful 
of granulated sugar and boil it for fifteen minutes or 
longer. Add a tablespoonful each of orange and 
lemon juice and a cupful of nut meats. When cold 
cut it into cubes. 

2OI 



CANDY 



Pulled Candy 

Boil together two cupfuls of granulated sugar and 
a cupful of water, using a granite or porcelain pan. 
Add a rounding tablespoonful of butter and a pinch 
of cream of tartar. When a bit dropped in cold water 
hardens, stir in a tablespoonful of lemon or orange 
juice. Pour into a buttered pan, and when cool enough 
to handle pull with buttered fingers until white. Twist 
into desired shapes and cut it with a buttered knife. 



Egg Candy 

Boil together half a cupful of syrup, half a cupful 
of water and two cupfuls of granulated sugar, using a 
granite pan. Drop a bit into cold water, and if it 
hardens stir into the pan the stiffly beaten whites of 
two eggs. Beat thoroughly, add flavoring and pour 
into buttered pans. Nut meats or candied citron may 
be stirred in with the flavoring. 



Nougat 

Boil together two cupfuls of sugar and half a cupful 
of water. Use a porcelain or granite pan. Butter 
plates and spread over them mixed nuts, candied fruit, 
citron, cocoanut, etc. When the sugar boils drop a 
bit into water; if it hardens, put in a spoonful of 
flavoring and pour the mixture over the nuts. 



Marshmallows 

Take three heaping tablespoonfuls of pulverized 
gum arabic and soak it in a cupful of cold water for 
three hours ; then put it in a double boiler with cold 
water in the outer vessel. Heat until the gum arabic 
is dissolved, then strain it through coarse cheesecloth. 

202 



CANDY 



Put the strained gum back into the boiler and add a 
large cupful of powdered sugar. Stir the mixture 
steadily until it becomes stiff and white. Remove it 
from the fire and beat it thoroughly ; add a teaspoon- 
ful of vanilla and beat it again. Rub a pan with 
cornstarch and pour the paste into it. When cool 
cut it into cubes, and roll each in a mixture of three 
parts cornstarch to one part of powdered sugar. 



Candied Violets 

Boil together a cupful of granulated sugar and a 
small cupful of water. Dip a fork into it, and if it 
spins a thread, dip each violet, rose petal, etc., into 
the syrup and place them carefully on a buttered 
wire strainer to dry. When dry, if the coating is not 
thick enough, redip the flowers. Sprinkle them with 
sugar and place separately on buttered plates. 



Popcorn Balls 

Make up a recipe for molasses candy, and before 
taking it from the fire stir in popcorn to thicken the 
mixture, and when nearly cool form it into balls and 
roll them in popcorn, that the surface may not be 
sticky. 



Cocoanut Balls 

Boil a cupful of sugar with three tablespoonfuls of 
water. Drop a bit into cold water, and if it hardens 
remove it from the fire and stir in shredded cocoanut 
until thick. When nearly cold form into balls and roll 
them in prepared cocoanut or sugar. Place the balls 
on buttered plates to harden. 

203 



FIRELESS COOKER 

Excellent fireless cookers may be obtained at the stores, 
but a simple one may be made at home as follows: 

A pail, box or small trunk may be used. If one "burner" 
is desired, take the large pail and another three or four 
sizes smaller; each must have a lid. Hay, straw, shredded 
newspaper or excelsior may be used. Put a thick layer in 
the bottom, set in the smaller pail, and pack all around it. 
Remove the small pail and put in a sheet of paper or cloth, 
or both, to make a good side to the nest, and a cushion of 
the same to fit over the top under the outside lid. Folded 
newspaper may be used. A hot lid or stone may be placed 
in the cooker under the food vessel, but is not necessary. 

Prepare the food according to the recipe, place it in the 
smaller pail, and cook it over the fire until the heat pene- 
trates to the center of the food. It must reach the boiling 
point. Have it tightly covered and put it in the cooker 
immediately. Do not remove the cover until the food is to 
be served. The slow process of cooking preserves the 
flavor of the food. 

The fireless cooker is also economical and tough meats 
are rendered palatable. There is no odor, and no danger 
of the food burning. Beans and other foods that require 
much cooking may be reheated to the boiling point after 
a few hours, and returned to the cooker. 



204 



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 

One Gill 

1. One fourth of a pint or about half a cupful. 

2. Two wineglassfuls. 
A Wineglassful 

Four tablespoonfuls of liquid. 
An Ounce 

1. Two tablespoonfuls of liquid. 

2. One rounding tablespoonful of butter. 

3. One heaping tablespoonful of sugar, etc. 

4. The white of one egg. 

5. The yolk of one egg. 
A Pint 

Two cupfuls. 
A Pound 

1. Two cupfuls of powdered or granulated sugar. 

2. One and one-half cupfuls of hard butter. 

3. Two cnpfuls of unsifted flour. 
A Saltspoonful 

Half of an even teaspoonful. 
Proportions 

1. A spoonful, cupful, etc., means even full or level. 

2. Use a teaspoonful of soda to a pint of sour milk, or 
a cupful of molasses. 

3. Two rounding teaspoonfuls of baking powder to a 
pint of flour. 

4. One-half teaspoonful of salt to a pint of flour. 

5. One-half teaspoonful of salt to one pint of soup. 

6. One tablespoonful of flavoring to one quart of 
cream for freezing. 

7. Use one quart of water to a pound of soup meat for 
stock. 

205 



I 7 1934 



