TX 813 
.P6 r\3 
Copy 1 



^^ 



©tjj^Sitngnf Jrutta 



ff 



\ 




Two Hundred and Nine Ways 
of Preparing the Apple 



TO 
THE NATIONAL APPLE SHOW 

This Book is Dedicated by L. Gertrude Mackay, Ph. G., B. S. 
B. A,. Acting Head of Department of Domestic Economy 

OF 

The State College of Washington 

PULLMAN, WASHINGTON. 



(Copyright applied for) 



» «OIID(N nr>.. .••u-rg»,, SPOKANe. ^ 

109100 ^^ \ 






J, 



(gC!.A332a74 



Two Hundred and Nine Ways of 
Preparing the Apple 



THE APPLE AS A FOOD. 

The apple is without question the King of Fruits. While 
it is more easily digested when cooked, it is not difficult of 
digestion and is most delicious raw. Whether fresh, dried, evap- 
orated or canned, the apple is a wholesome food, easily pre- 
pared, attractive and palatable at all times. 

Becaues of its rare keeping qualities people in the most 
remote parts are able to take advantage of its great food value. 

Apples vary in flavor and texture. They are often mar- 
keted before they are mature and the cooking and keeping 
qualities are thus injured. None of the soft, insipid apples are 
suitable for preserving; the sound, tart apples are the best for 
this purpose. 

Fine grained apples are best for sauce and butter, while 
the coarse grained varieties are best for marmalade. 

In the fall and early winter, apples are at their best, and 
spices need not be added, because their flavor cannot be im- 
proved, but towards spring the flavor becomes somewhat flat 
and is improved by the addition of spices or other flavorings. 

Always cook apples in earthen or granite ware utensils, and 
use silver, granite or wooden spoons for stirring. 

The use of the apple as a basis for practically all manu- 
factured jellies and jams is well known. This is due to the 
large amount of pectose which it contains. 

There is no waste to a good apple. Even the paring and 
core may be utilized for jelly. 

Fruits are classified as flavor fruits and nutritive fruits. 
The apple comes under both of these heads. 



6 Two Hundred and Nine Ways of Preparing the Apple. 

AVERAGE COMPOSITION OF THE APPLE. 

Water 82.5 

Carbohydrates 12.5 

Proteid .4 

Nitrogenous .4 

Fats .5 

Acids 1.0 

Cellulose 2.7 

From a dietetic standpoint, the most important function of 
the apple is that of furnishing mineral salts and organic acids, 
but it has an important nutritive value as well, furnished by the 
carbohydrates present. As the fruit ripens the starch changes 
to sugar. 

The apple has a medicinal value as well, especially if eaten 
at the beginning of the meal or between meals. 



VARIETIES GOOD FOR SAUCE AND BAKING. 



Alexander 

Baldwin 

Duchess of Oldenberg 

Gravenstein 

Grimes' Golden 

Golden Russet 

Gano 

Hubbardston 

Johnathan 

Jeffries 

King 

Peck 

Lawver 

Lead 

Maiden Blush 

McMahan's White 

Ortley or Yellow Bellflower 



Peck 

Red Astracan 

Rome Beauty 

Rhode Island Greening 

Rainbow 

Siegrende Renette 

Sheawasse Beauty 

Spitzenberg 

Twenty Ounce Pippin 

Wallbridge 

Weahhy 

Wagner 

Wolf River 

White Pearmain 

York Imperial 

Yellow Transparent 



GOOD CIDER APPLES. 



Baldwin 
Buckingham 
Dyer Sweet 
English Russet 
Gravenstein 
Golden Sweet 



Imperial Rambo 
Jeffries 
Maiden Blush 
Newton Pippin 
Seek No Further 
Wolf River 



Two Hundred and Nine Ways of Preparing the Apple. 7 

CIDER MAKING. 

Distinct cider apples are not grown in the United States. All 
apples will not make good cider. Usually the more astringent 
apples make the best cider, but this does not always hold good. 
The astringency in the fruit is due to tannin, which is very 
essential to good cider; it helps in the clearing and also adds to 
the keeping qualities of the cider. 

Sweet apples contain more juice than sour apples, but the 
cider is flat and tasteless and has poor keeping qualities. 

Bitter apples contain a great deal of tannin and make very 
little cider, but it has a rich, pleasant flavor and good keeping 
qualities. As the sugar is converted into alcohol the sugar con- 
tent is very important. 

The best apples for cider making are those having a pleas- 
ant odor, a slightly sour, bitter taste, and the juice should have 
about 1.005 specific gravity. 

It is commonly supposed that any apple will give good 
cider; this is not true, however; apples should be sound, clear, 
mature and free from pests. Decayed and overripe fruit has 
lost its perfume, some of the water and a large proportion of the 
sugar; the juice is hard to clarify and turns to vinegar very 
rapidly. Even a very small amount of decayed fruit renders the 
cider unpalatable. 



8 Two Hundred and Nine Ways of Preparing the Apple. 

AFTERTHOUGHT. 

One pint of nice apple sauce sweetened to taste, stir in the 
yolks of two eggs well beaten. Bake for fifteen minutes. Cover 
with a meringue made of two well beaten whites and one-half 
cup of powdered sugar. Return to the oven and brown. L-^^^ 

APPLES WITH ALMOND PRAULINEE, JELLY AND 

CREAM. 

Core and pare ten apples, cook in a syrup made of a cup of 
water and a cup of sugar, turn the apples and cook until fork 
will pierce them in the hollow center. Set the cooked apples 
on a serving dish. Blanch and chop fine one-fourth of a cup 
of almonds. Cook three-fourths of a cup of sugar to a caramel, 
when the sugar begins to turn a light brown, add the nuts and 
stir constantly until the sugar is cooked enough. Put a spoonful 
of the caramel on the top of each apples, around the central 
opening; put a teaspoon of currant jelly in the center of each 
apple. Beat a cup of cream until firm; put this around the 
apples and serve. 

APRICOT SHERBET SERVED IN APPLE SHELLS. 

Select bright red apples of uniform size, rub until they have 
a high polish. Cut off the blossom end and scoop out the pulp, 
carefully notch the edge. Fill with apricot sherbet and serve 
upon apple leaves. 

APPLE BALLS WITH A MIXTURE OF FRUIT. 

Peel large apples, with a potato scoop cut out small balls, 
dropping them into water with a little vinegar added to keep 
them white. Prepare a mixture of grapefruit pulp, pineapple 
and banana and put into glasses; add a few of the apple 
balls; pour over all the juice left from the fruit which has been 
boiled down with sugar; cool and serve at once or the apples 
may turn brown. 

APPLE BALLS SERVED IN SYRUP. 

Prepare the apple balls as above; prepare a rich sugar 
syrup; color with a little pink color paste and drop in the balls. 



Two Hundred and Nine Ways of Preparing the Apple. 9 

cook slowly until the balls are softened, pile in glasses and add 
a little syrup to each glass. Serve cold. 

APPLES IN BLOOM. 

Cook red apples in boiling water until soft. Have the water 
half surround the apples and turn often. Remove skins care- 
fully that the red color may remain, and arrange on serving dish. 
To the water add one cup of sugar, grated rind of one lemon and 
juice of one orange; simmer until reduced to one cup. Cool and 
pour over the apples. Serve with cream sauce. 

CREAM SAUCE. 

Beat the white of one Qgg stiff; add the well beaten yolk 
of one egg and gradually add one cup of powdered sugar. Beat 
one-half cup of thick cream and one-fourth cup of milk until 
stiff, combine the mixture and add one-half teaspoon of vanilla. 

BROWN BETTY.— I. 

One cup of bread crumbs, eight sliced apples, one-half cup 
of molasses, one-half cup of cold water; butter a baking dish, 
put a layer of crumbs, then a layer of apples, sprinkle with cin- 
namon and sugar and dot with bits of butter; repeat until the 
dish is full; insert a knife in several places and pour in the 
water and molasses. Set in a pan of hot water and bake for 
forty-five minutes. Serve hot with cream or hard sauce. 

BROWN BETTY.— II. 

Pare and chop six apples. Place a layer of apple in a^well 
buttered pudding dish, then a layer of bread crumbs, sprinkle 
with brown sugar and cinnamon, repeat until the dish is full; 
add several generous lumps of butter and pour sweet milk or 
hot water on until it comes within an inch of the top of the pan. 
Bake in a moderate oven until brown, and serve with plain 
or whipped cream. 

BROWN BETTY.— III. 

Four four teaspoons of melted butter over one and one-half 
cups of soft bread crumbs; stir until the crumbs are evenly but- 
tered. Put a layer of the crumbs into a well greased pudding 
dish, mix one-half cup of sugar, one pint of chopped apples, 
one cup of chopped raisins, one teaspoon of cinnamon and one- 
quarter of a teaspoon of cloves. Put a layer of the apple mix- 
ture over the crumbs and alternate until all is used, finishing 
with crumbs. Cover closely and bake for three-quarters of an 
hour in a moderate oven, uncover and brown. Serve hot with 
hard sauce, or cold with cream. 



10 Two Hundred and Nine Ways of Preparing the Apple. 

APPLE BUTTER CANAPES. 

Cut thick slices from a loaf of brown bread; stamp into 
rounds with a biscuit cutter. Spread each round with apple 
butter. In the center place an English walnut or hickory-nut 
meat and arrange a border of chopped nuts around the edge. 
Serve with cheese cubes. 

APPLE BUTTER. 

Pare, core and quarter the desired quantity of apples, allow- 
ing one-third of sweet to two-thirds of sour apples. Boil sweet 
cider until it is reduced one-half. While the cider is boiling 
rapidly add apples until the mixture is the desired thickness. 
Cook slowly, stirring constantly and skimming when necessary. 
When the apples begin to separate from the cider, take two 
pounds of sugar to each bushel of apples used ; add a little ground 
cinnamon and boil until it remains in a smooth mass, when a 
little is cooled. Usually one and one-half bushels of apples 
a-c enough for one and one-half gallons of boiled cider. 

APPLE BISCUIT. 

To one pint of light bread sponge add one-quarter cup of 
molasses, one tablespoon of lard and graham or whole wheat for 
a soft dough. Beat vigorously and finally work into the dough 
one large cup of chopped apple; shape the dough into biscuit 
and place in muffin pans and allow them to be very light before 
baking. 

DRIED APPLE BUTTER. 

Wash one pound of dried or evaporated apples thoroughly, 
soak over night; in the morning cook with plenty of water. 
When well done, rub through a sieve or colander; add sugar 
and cinnamon to taste, the juice of one lemon, juice of two 
oranges and butter the size of an egg. Cook slowly until it will 
drop heavily from a spoon. 

APPLES EN CASSEROLE. 

Pare, core and slice two quarts of apples and put in an 
earthen dish, alternately, with one and one-half cups of sugar; 
add one-fourth cup of cold water, cover the dish and bake in a 
moderate oven. Serve either hot or cold with cream. 

APPLE CATCHUP. 

Quarter, pare and core twelve sour apples. Put in a sauce 
pan, cover with water and let simmer until soft; nearly all of 
the water should be evaporated ; rub through a sieve and add the 



Two Hundred and Nine Ways of Preparing the Apple. 11 

following to each quart of pulp : One cup of sugar one teaspoon 
of cloves, one teaspoon of mustard, two teaspoons of cinnamon, 
and one tablespoon of salt, two cups of vinegar and two grated 
onions. Bring the catchup to a boil and let simmer gently for 
one hour. Bottle, cork and seal. 

APPLE CHARLOTTE.— I. 

Soak one-half box of granulated gelatin in one-half cup of 
cold water for half an hour. Whip one pint of cream and set on 
ice; add one-half cup of powdered sugar, a tablespoon of lemon 
juice and two good sized apples, grated. Dissolve the gel- 
atin over hot water and strain into the mixture; stir quickly 
and pour into a mould. Set on ice to chill, and serve. 

APPLE CHARLOTTE.— IL 

Pare, core and slice apples, cook in butter until soft and 
dry ; add sugar to taste. Line a plain mould with sippets of 
bread an inch wide, dipped in melted butter; let one overlap 
the other; arrange lozenges of bread similarly in the bottom of 
the mould. Fill the center with the apple and cover the top with 
brtad. Bake for half an hour in a hot oven. Serve with cream 
and sugar or a hot sauce. 

PLAIN APPLE CHARLOTTE. 

Soak one-quarter of a box of granulated gelatin in two 
tablespoons of cold water; add to one pint of hot apple sauce, 
flavor and press through a sieve. As soon as the mixture begins 
to harden, stir in one pint of whipped cream. Line a mould 
with ladyfingers, pour in the mixture and set away to cool. 

CLARIFIED APPLES. 

Make a syrup of two cups of sugar and one cup of water. 
Pare, core and cut into sixths six large, tart apples. Cook a few 
at a time in the syrup until clear, remove and drain; add the 
rind and juice of one-half lemon to the syrup, boil until thick, 
remove the lemon rind and pour over the apples. 

APPLE COBBLER. 

Pare and quarter enough tart apples to fill a baking dish 
three-fourths full. Cover with a rich baking powder biscuit 
dough made soft enough to stir, spread it over the apples with- 
out rolling. Make several cuts in the center to allow the steam 
to escape. Bake for three-quarters of an hour and serve hot 
with sugar and rich cream. 



12 Two Hundred and Nine Ways of Preparing the Apple. 

CODDLED APPLES. 

Take tart, ripe apples of uniform size, remove the cores. 
Place the fruit in the bottom of a porcelain kettle ; spread thickly 
with sugar; cover the bottom of the kettle with water and allow 
the apples to simmer until tender. Pour the syrup over the 
apples and serve cold. 

APPLE CONSERVE. 

For each pound of quartered and pared apples allow three- 
quarters of a pound of sugar and half a pint of water. Boil 
sugar and water until a rich syrup is formed; add the apples 
and simmer until clear. Take up carefully, lay on plates and 
dry in the sun. Roll in sugar and pack in tin boxes lined with 
waxed paper. 

COMPOTE OF APPLES. 

One pound of apples, one-quarter pound of lump sugar, one 
cup of water, the juice of half a lemon, a few drops of red col- 
oring. Put the sugar, water and lemon juice into a clean enam- 
eled sauce pan and let them boil quickly for ten minutes. Mean- 
while, peel the apples, cut them in quarters and remove the 
cores. Throw the pieces into the boiling syrup and let them 
cook slowly until clear and tender, but not broken. Then remove 
the quarters of apple carefully, reduce the syrup a little and color 
it pink with the red coloring. Arrange the apples on a glass dish 
and pour the syrup over. A little cream or custard served with 
the compote is a great improvement. If the apples are small, 
they may be cored and cooked whole. 

APPLE COMPOTE AND ORANGE MARMALADE. 

Boil twelve tart apples in one quart of water until tender, 
strain through a jelly bag; add one pound of granulated sugar 
and let boil. While boiling add twelve apples, cored and pared. 
When the apples are tender, drain them carefully in a perforated 
skimmer. Boil the syrup until it jells; fill the apples with orange 
marmalade and pour the syrup over them. Serve with whipped 
cream. 

CRAB APPLE MARMALADE. 

Wash and core crab apples and put tliem through the meat 
chopper. Put into a preserving kettle and add water until it 
shows through the top layer of apples. Cook until soft. Weigh 
and add an equal weight of sugar. Cook until the mixture forms 
a jelly when cooled and pour into sterilzed glasses. Cover with 
paraffin. 



Two Hundred and Nine Ways of Preparing the Apple. 13 

APPLE CUSTARD. 

Beat the yolks of four eggs and add one-half cup of sugar; 
cook for one or two minutes and remove from the fire. Grad- 
ually add one pint of grated apple. Pour into a serving dish 
and cover with a meringue made of the well beaten whites of 
four eggs and three tablespoons of powdered sugar. 

APPLE CUP CUSTARD. 

Pare, core and steam four good sized, tart apples until tend- 
der; press through a sieve. While hot add one tablespoon of 
butter, four tablespoons of sugar, the yolks of four eggs and one- 
half pint of milk. Turn into baking cups and bake for twenty 
minutes. Beat the whites of four eggs until stiff, add four table- 
spoons of sugar, beat and heap over the top of the cups; dust 
thickly with powdered sugar and brown in the oven. Serve cold. 

APPLE CUSTARDS. 

Steam two large, tart apples that have been peeled and 
cored. Rub them through a sieve and add one cupful of milk, 
two teaspoonfuls of butter, one-quarter of a cupful of sugar and 
the yolks of four eggs. Turn the mixture into baking cups, 
stand them in hot water and bake about twenty minutes. When 
they come from the oven, pile the beaten white of egg on top 
of each cup, sprinkle with powdered sugar and place in the oven 
to brown slightly. Serve cold. 

APPLE CUSTARD. 

Pare, core and bake thoroughly one or two large, tart apples, 
having filled the cavities with one teaspoon syrup and granu- 
lated sugar. Cool and serve with custard. 

APPLE CROQUETTES. 

Pare, quarter and core enough tart apples to make a pint; 
place in a sauce pan with one small tablespoon of butter and, if 
the apples are not juicy, a few tablespoons of water. Cover and 
stew gently until tender, then press through a sieve. Return to 
the fire and add sugar. Add one tablespoon of cornstarch and 
one-quarter of a teaspoon of salt mixed to a thin paste with cold 
water ; stir until thickened, cover and cook slowly for fifteen 
minutes. Turn out on a greased dish and set away until^ cold. 
Form into tiny croquettes, roll in bread crumbs, dip in lightly 
beaten egg, then roll again in crumbs and fry in deep fat; drain 
on unglazed paper and serve with roast pork or roast goose. 



14 Two Hundred and Nine Ways of Preparing the Apple. 

DELMONICO APPLES. 

Put a layer of apple sauce in a buttered pudding dish, sprin- 
kle with ground almonds, dot with butter and sprinkle with 
crushed macaroons, add a little water and bake. Delicious when 
served with meat. 

APPLE DELIGHT. 

Put a layer of apple sauce in a buttered pudding dish, dot 
with butter, add a layer of chopped peaches and apricots, sprin- 
kle with blanched almonds ground rather coarsely, repeat until 
the pan is full; pour the peach juice over the mixture and bake 
for one hour. Serve as a relish with meat course. 

EAST INDIA CHUTNEY (APPLE.) 

Pare and core twelve sour apples. Peel one medium sized 
onion. Remove seeds and stems from three peppers, one of 
which should be red. Chop apples, peppers, onion and one cup 
of raisins very fine. Add the juice of four lemons, one pint of 
cider vinegar and half a cup of currant jelly; let simmer very 
gently for one hour, stirring frequently. Add one pint of cider 
vinegar, two cups of sugar, one tablespoon each of salt and 
ground ginger, and one-fourth of a teaspoonful of cayenne; cook 
for one hour more, stirring constantly. Store as canned fruit. 

APPLE FARCI. 

Choose tart red apples. Northern Spies, if possible; wash,- 
wipe and core. Do not pare. With the corer remove apple in 
thiee places, equally distant from stem and blossom end, holding 
coior in oblique position and pressing downward toward center, 
ii^^ill these cavities with raisins, dates or figs, sugar, cinnamon. 
Canned or fresh pineapple is delicious filling. Always use 
raisins, placing them in the cavities first to prevent the other 
filling from slipping through. After filling,* place the apples in 
a pan that has been sprinkled with sugar and cinnamon. Sprin- 
kle each apple with sugar and cinnamon. Place in a hot oven 
until the sugar melts, then add one-fourth cup of water or fruit 
juice and bake until tender. Baste frequently with the syrup. 
Serve either hot or cold with whipped cream sprinkled with 
cocoa. 

APPLE FLOAT.— I. 

A simple desert may be made as follows: Beat the whites 
of four eggs to a stiff froth, add four tablespoons of powdered 
sugar and beat until dry. Grate two large, tart apples into the 
egg mixture, a little at a time, beating all the time. Have a large 



Two Hundred and Nine Ways of Preparing the Apple. 15 

dish partly filled with plain cream; drop the apple and egg mix- 
ture by the tablespoonful over the surface of the cream and dot 
with candied cherries. 

APPLE FLOAT.— II. 

Peel six big apples and slice them. Put them in a sauce pan 
with just enough water to cover them and cook until tender. 
Then put them through a colander and add the grated rind 
and juice of half a lemon, sweeten to taste and stir in a trace of 
nutmeg. Fold in the stiffly beaten whites of four eggs and put 
the dish on ice. Serve with whipped or plain cream. 

APPLES FRIED WITH ONIONS. 

Peel onions and slice. Fry in fat until a rich brown; drain 
on soft brown paper. Fry unpared quarters of apple in the fat 
left from the onions. Arrange apples in a border on a platter; 
fill center with the fried onions and serve hot. 

FRIED APPLES.— L 

Quarter and core five apples without paring. Put into a frying 
pan and melt beef drippings in it ; when hot, lay a layer of apples 
in, skin side down, sprinkle with brown sugar, and when nearly 
done, turn and brown ; place on a platter and sprinkle with sugar ; 
set in hot oven and continue frying apples one layer at a time. 

FRIED APPLES.— II. 

Qarter and core five apples without paring. Put into a frying 
pan one cup of sugar, one tablespoon of butter and three table- 
spoons of water. Let this melt and lay in the apples with the 
skin up. Cover and fry slowly until brown. 

APPLE FRITTERS.— I. 

Mix and sift one and one-third cups of flour, two teaspoons 
of baking powder and one-fourth teaspoon of salt. Add grad- 
ually, while stirring constantly, two-thirds of a cup of milk and 
one egg well beaten. Wipe, core, pare and cut two medium sized 
sour apples into eighths, then slice the eighths and stir into the 
batter. Drop by the spoonful into hot deep fat and fry until 
delicately browned; drain on brown paper and sprinkle with 
powdered sugar. 

APPLE FRITTERS.— II. 

Pare and core four tart apples and cut in one-fourth inch 
slices across the apple. Sprinkle with two tablespoons of lemon 
juice and powdered sugar. Prepare a batter by sifting one cup 



16 Two Hundred and Nine Ways of Preparing the Apple. 

of flour and one-fourth teaspoon of salt. Add two well beaten 
yolks to one-half cup of milk; mix and beat into the flour until 
smooth. Add one tablespoon of melted butter or olive oil and 
cut in the well beaten whites of two eggs. Drain the apples, 
dip into the batter and fry in deep fat. When cooked, drain on 
brown paper and sprinkle with powdered sugar before serving. 

APPLE FRITTERS.— III. 

One cup of sweet milk, one egg, one teaspoon of baking 
powder, one-fourth teaspoon of salt, one-half cup of chopped 
apples. Flour to make a batter stiff enough to drop heavily from 
the spoon. Fry in deep fat. 

APPLE FRITTERS.— IV. 

Core and pare four apples. Cut into slices one-third inch 
thick, leaving the hole in the center. Sprinkle with sugar, lemon 
juice and cinnamon. Dip each slice in fritter batter and fry in 
deep fat. Drain on brown paper and sprinkle with sugar. 

FRITTER BATTER. 

folks of two eggs well beaten; add one-half cup of milk, 
one tablespoon of olive oil, one saltspoon of salt and flour enough 
to make a drop batter. When ready for use, add the well beaten 
whites of two eggs. 

APPLE FRITTERS, ENGLISH STYLE. 

Beat one egg, add a few grains of salt and one-fourth cup 
of milk; cut out four rounds of bread from half-inch slices of 
stale bread. Set the bread into the milk and egg mixture and 
cook in deep fat. Stew apples, pared and cored, in a few spoon- 
fuls of syrup. Place an apple on each round of bread and grate 
a little nutmeg over the top. Serve very hot. 

FROSTED APPLES. 

Pare and core ten large apples. Cover with one pint of 
water and three tablespoons of sugar; simmer until tender. Re- 
move from the syrup and drain. Wash the parings and let sim- 
mer with a little water for one-half an hour. Beat the white of 
one egg to a stiff froth and add one tablespoon of sugar. Coat 
the top of the apples lightly with the meringue and place in a 
cool oven to dry. Strain the juice from the parings, add two 
tablespoons of sugar, return to the fire and let boil for five min- 
utes; add a few drops of lemon and a little nutmeg, cool and 
pour around the apples. 



Two Hundred and Nine Ways of Preparing the Apple. 17 

APPLE GELATIN. 

Cover one-half box of gelatin with half a cup of cold water 
and let stand for half an hour. Pare, core and quarter six tart 
apples, add the thin, yellow rind of half a lemon, cover with 
sweet cider or water, boil and press through a sieve; add one 
cup of sugar and juice of one lemon. Pour over the gelatin, 
mix, turn into a mould and let harden. Serve with cream or 
cider sauce. 

APPLE GINGER. 

Wipe, pare, quarter, core and chop two and one-half pounds 
of sour apples. Put in a stew pan and add one and one-half 
cupfuls of light brown sugar, the juice and rind of one and one- 
half lemons, one-half ounce ginger, and just enough water to pre- 
vent the apples from burning. Cover and cook slowly for four 
hours, adding water if necessary. Apple ginger may be kept for 
several week. For the Christmas dinner, serve around roast 
goose in apple cups made of bright red apples. 

GINGER APPLES. 

Pare and core some good apples. Greenings or Pippins. Fill 
the cavity in the center of each apple with a spoonful of chopped 
preserved ginger. Stand them in your baking dish (not tin) 
and pour over them a syrup made either of sugar and water 
flavored with lemon, and with a piece of dried ginger cooked in 
it, or if there is enough ginger syrup, this may be used with the 
addition of a little water. Bake until soft and transparent, but 
not broken, basting occasionally with the syrup. Serve^ hot or 
cold, with a little whipped cream garnished with some pieces of 
ginger. 

GARNISH FOR ROAST GOOSE. 

Cook rings of apples clear in syrup. Drain, place a stewed 
prune in the center of each and sprinkle with chopped pistachio 
nuts. Arrange around the platter and place the goose in the 
center. 

GERMAN APPLE CUP. 

Core fine grained apples, pare except one ring around the 
center. Cut celery hearts very fine ; mix with mayonnaise dress- 
ing, to which a little salt, pepper and half the bulk of whipped 
cream has been added. Fill the cavities of the apples and round 
up a little. Set on heart-shaped lettuce leaves. If the apples 
must stand after being pared, rub lightly with a cut lemon to 
prevent discoloration. 



18 Two Hundred and Nine Ways of Preparing the Apple. 

APPLE GOODIE. 

Cut apples in balls with a vegetable scoop and cook until 
tender in a little syrup, to which a little lemon juice has been 
added. Toast slices of bread or stale cake; dip in milk, to which 
a little salt and butter has been added. Pile apple balls on slices 
of bread or cake, with five or six blanched almonds ; add bits of 
any kind of jelly or marmalade. Serve with plain creani. 

GLAZED APPLES WITH PRESERVED GINGER. 

Core and pare half a dozen apples. Make a syrup with a 
cup of sugar and a cup of water. Cook the apples in the syrup, 
cook until tender, turn while cooking, but do not cover, as the 
steam will cause them to break in pieces. Have circular pieces 
of stale sponge cake ready, take the apples up onto the cake, 
sprinkle apples and cake generously with granulated sugar and 
set in the oven to glaze. Add half a cup of syrup from preserved 
ginger to the apple syrup and let boil up once. When the apples 
are a delicate brown, pour the syrup onto a serving dish, set the 
apples into the syrup and fill the open spaces with pieces of 
preserved ginger. Serve hot with cream. 

GLAZED APPLES WITH SPICED PRUNES. 

Choose large apples of uniform size; pare, core and cook 
until tender in syrup. Remove to a platter. Boil the syrup down 
to a jelly and pour over the apples. Fill the centers with spiced 
prunes and dust the top of each apple with powdered sugar and 
serve hot. 

GREEN APPLE HONEY. 

Place cider made from half-grown apples, windfalls, on the 
back of the stove and let simmer gently until it is reduced to 
one-quarter the original bulk. Strain and add an equal bulk of 
sugar ; heat until the sugar is dissolved. It will keep indefinitely 
in a cool place and is very useful, either as a sauce for puddings 
or to add flavor to otherwise insipid tasting fruits. 

APPLE ICING. 

One cup of sugar, one-third cup of water, one saltspoon of 
cream of tartar; heat gradually and boil without stirring until 
the syrup will thread when dropped from a fork. Pour slowly 
over the well beaten white of one egg, beating constantly, and 
continue until thick enough to spread. Add two tablespoons of 
grated apple, beat and spread on the cake. 



Two Hundred and Nine Ways of Preparing the Apple. 19 

APPLE JAM. 

Pare and cut apples into quarters, core and cut into rather 
thick slices; to every pound of apples allow one pound of brown 
sugar, and to every five pounds of apples allow the thinly cut 
rinds and juice of four lemons and one-half pound of ginger root 
and one ounce of cloves. Let stand in a bowl until the following 
day; boil until the apples are a rich amber color and perfectly 
clear 

APPLE JONATHAN. 

Peel and slice very thin four large or five small Greening 
Apples; place in deep pudding dish or baking dish with two 
tablespoonfuls cold water. Make batter of one-third cupful of 
butter, one large cupful of granulated sugar, two eggs beaten 
thoroughly, two large cupfuls flour, with four teaspoonfuls good 
baking powder and one teaspoonful salt sifted together, 
stirring well; then add flour. Blend the whole for five minutes, 
then pour over the apples; let stand five minutes before placing 
in oven; bake thirty minutes. 

SAUCE FOR APPLE JONATHAN. 

One and one-half cupfuls sweet milk, one tablespoonful but- 
ter, one-half cupful sugar, two tablespoonfuls cornstarch, three 
heaping tablespoonfuls raspberry jam. Place milk in porcelain 
dish over fire, let boil slowly; mix butter, sugar and cornstarch 
together ; add one-third cupful cold milk ; mix until smooth, then 
stir slowly into the boiling milk; let boil five minutes, then 
remove from fire and add raspberry jam. To be served hot. — 

—J. W. W., New York City. 

JELLIED APPLES. 

Peel, core and quarter two quarts of tart apples. Make a 
syrup of one and one-half pints of water and two cups of sugar; 
boil rapidly for ten minutes. Cook the apples gently, a few at 
a time, until they are tender and clear. Remove them with a 
skimmer and spread on a platter. When the last of the fruit 
has been cooked, add one-half package of gelatin which has 
been soaked in one-half cup of cold water for two hours, the juice 
of one lemon and stir until the gelatin is dissolved. Set the 
sauce pan in cold water and stir until the mixture begins to 
thicken; drop the apples in and mix gently, turn into a mould 
and let harden. Serve with whipped cream. 

JELLIED APPLES WITH ALMONDS. 

Pare, core and quarter Golden Pippins; stew until soft and 
beat smooth. Make syrup by boiling a pound and a half of sugar 



20 Two Hundred and Nine Ways of Preparing the Apple. 

and a pint of water for every two pounds of apples. Put the apple 
pulp and the juice of three lemons into the syrup and boil gently 
until stiff enough to drop heavily from the spoon. Pour into a 
wet mould and when cold turn onto a serving dish. Stick 
blanched almonds into the jelly and surround with whipped 
cream. 

APPLES, LEXINGTON STYLE. 

Core and pare eight apples, rub with lemon and cut in 
halves and cook in a syrup until tender. Let them cool, then 
roll in sponge cake crumbs, then in egg and and milk, then in 
the crumbs and cook in deep fat. Fill the centers with grated 
pineapple and currant jelly. Surround the apples with the 
syrup and serve. 

APPLE LOAF. 

Reserve enough bread dough to make a small loaf. Work 
thoroughly into it one tablespoon of butter, one-third cup if 
sugar, one-quarter of a teaspoon of cinnamon and two well 
beaten eggs. Add flour to make a soft dough, knead lightly and 
let rise. Divide into three equal parts and roll each part to fit 
the pan. Lay one piece in a buttered pan, spread over it an 
inch layer of sour apples chopped fine. Pour over the apples 
a tablespoon of melted butter; cover with the second piece of 
dough and continue as before; brush the top with milk and let 
rise until very light. Steam for one hour, then place in a hot 
oven to brown lightly. Serve in slices with sugar and cream. 

APPLES IN MAPLE SYRUP. 

Cut eight apples in halves and remove the cores with a 
teaspoon, put into a baking pan with one cup of maple syrup 
and one and one-half cups of water and two tablespoons of 
butter. Bake until the syrup is thick and serve with whipped 
cream. 

APPLE MACEDOINE. 

Cut a thick slice off the stem end of red apples, core and 
remove the pulp with a potato ball cutter. Cook one-half cup of 
sugar with one cup of water. Add clean rose geranium leaves 
and apple balls; cook until the balls are tender. When the 
syrup is cold, add the juice of one lemon and a couple of peaches 
sliced into small pieces. Fill the apple shells with the mixture 
and serve very cold as a first course at a luncheon. 

APPLE MARMALADE. 

Pare, core and cut into small pieces coarse grained apples. 
Allow a pound of sugar to each pound of apples. Add enough 
water to dissolve the sugar and boil until thick; add the apples 



Two Hundred and Nine Ways of Preparing the Apple. 21 

and boil until tender; pass through colander; add the juice and 
grate rind of a lemon to every four pounds of fruit. Boil again 
until thick and put up in jars or glasses. Cover with paraffin. 

Crab apple marmalade may be made in the same way with 
the lemon omitted. When cold it should cut like cream cheese. 

APPLE MERINGUE. 

Two cups of steamed apple pulp, one-half cup of sugar, one 
teaspoon of butter, one-half teaspoon of cinnamon or nutmeg. 
Add the yolks of two eggs slightly beaten and one tablespoon 
of thick cream. Fill a deep pie tin lined with crust and bake 
without an upper crust. Make a meringue of the whites of two 
eggs and two tablespoons of sugar; brown in a very moderate 
oven. 



APPLES WITH NUT STUFFING AND WHIPPED CREAM. 

Scoop out apples and fill the shell with English walnuts and 
apple pulp mixed with mayonnaise; place in a circle on a large 
serving dish and heap whipped cream in the center. 

APPLE OMELET.— I. 

To eight large apples stewed very soft and mashed fine 
add one cup of sugar and flavor with nutmeg or cinnamon. 
When cold stir in three well beaten eggs and one-half tablespoon 
cornstarch dissolved in two tablespoons of milk. Stir well and 
bake slowly twenty minutes. Serve hot. 

APPLE OMELET.— II. 

Separate four eggs; beat whites to a very stiff froth; then 
add the yolks and beat again, adding gradually two tablespoons 
of powdered sugar. Have ready an omelet pan, in which one 
tablespoon of butter has been melted; pour the egg mixture 
into the pan, and when it begins to thicken spread over it a 
layer of apple sauce. Fold, turn onto a hot platter and serve 
at once with powdered sugar. 

OXFORD APPLES. 

Pare, core and quarter four large, tart apples and boil in 
very little water. Mash and add one tablespoon of butter, half 
a cup of sugar, half a cup of fine bread crumbs, the yolks of 
four eggs and the whites of two eggs beaten light. Pour into a 
baking dish and cover with a meringue made of the whites of 
two eggs and two tablespoons of powdered sugar, and brown. 



22 Two Hundred and Nine Ways of Preparing the Apple. 

APPLES WITH OATMEAL. 

Core apples, leaving large cavities, pare and cook in a syrup 
made by boiling one cup of sugar with one 'and one-half cups 
of water for five minutes. When the apples are soft, drain and 
fill cavities with the hot, well cooked meal, and serve with 
cream and sugar. 

APPLES A LA PARISIENNE. 

Pare several sour apples, cut them in half crosswise and 
remove the cores. Cook them with one cupful of sugar to one 
cupful of water, taking care to retain the shape. Drain the 
apples and set each half on a round of stale sponge cake, sprin- 
kled lightly with orange juice and either orange or peach mar- 
malade. Cover the apple with a meringue and some chopped 
almonds and set in the oven to brown delicately. Serve either 
hot or cold. 

APPLE PAN DOWDY. 

Line a baking dish with thin slices of buttered bread. Fill 
in the center with sliced apples, sprinkle over the top four table- 
spoons of dark brown sugar and one-half teaspoon of cinnamon. 
Add one-half a cup of water and cover with another layer of 
buttered bread, with the buttered side up. Bake for one hour 
in a moderate oven. Serve with liquid pudding sauce. 

APPLE PRALINES. 

Core and peel six apples and cook in one and one-half cups 
of sugar and two cups of water. Make a candy of one cup of 
sugar, a little water and one-half cup of minced nuts. When 
this begins to caramel, put a spoonful on the top of each apple. 
Pour the syrup in which the apples were cooked over the apples 
and serve with whipped cream. 

APPLE PONE. 

Pare and chop fine one quart of sweet apples. Pour a pint 
of boiling water over one quart of white cornmeal; when cool, 
add enough sweet milk to make a very soft batter; add two 
tablespoons of sugar and one-half feaspoon of salt. Add the 
apples and pour into a well buttered pan, cover and bake in a 
moderate oven for two hours. 

PORCUPINE APPLES. 

Select apples of equal size. Pare, core and cook in syrup 
made of one cup of water to each half cup of sugar. Boil syrup 



Two Hundred and Nine Ways of Preparing the Apple. 23 

down and roll the apples in it. Stud with blanched almonds; 
fill the centers with jelly. Arrange on a large plate with rolled 
wafers between apples. 

APPLE PUNCH. 

Cut six tart apples in quarters; core, but do not pare; put 
into a preserving kettle and add one cup of raisins, two bay 
leaves, a small piece of stick cinnamon, the grated rind of three 
lemons and two quarts of cold water; let come to a boil and add 
two quarts more of cold water, cover and let boil for thirty 
minutes; drain through a muslin bag. When cold add the juice 
of three lemons and two pounds of sugar; stir until the sugar 
is dissolved. When ready to serve, add a little shaved ice. 

APPLES AND RICE WITH MERINGUE. 

Put three-fourths of a cup of rice in a quart of cold water 
and stir while heating to the boiling point. Let boil for five 
minutes. Drain and rinse with cold water. Add three cups of 
milk and a scant teaspoon of salt to the rice. Cover and cook 
until the rice is tender. Beat the yolks of two eggs, add the 
grated rind of an orange or lemon, one-fourth of a cup of sugar, 
and one-fourth of a cup of butter. Mix thoroughly and stir into 
the rice. Turn the rice into a concave border mould which has 
been dredged with sugar. Set the mould in a pan on several 
thicknesses of paper, surround with boiling water and cook in 
the oven for fifteen or twenty minutes. 

Core and pare eight apples and rub with an orange or lemon. 
Cook in a syrup made of one and one-half cups of sugar and the 
same measure of water, being careful to keep the apples whole. 
When tender, fill the apples with jelly or jam and pipe meringue 
over this. Dredge the whole with sugar and cook in the oven 
for eight minutes. Invert the rice on serving dish. Put apples 
in the cavity and pour the syrup around the base of the mould. 

RAISED APPLE BISCUIT. 

Scald one cup of milk, add one tablespoon of sugar and one 
tablespoon of butter, let cool. Add one-half cake of yeast dis- 
solved in warm water, one teaspoon of salt and one cup of flour. 
Let rise; add cup of apple, pared and grated, and one cup of 
flour sifted with one-half teaspoon of soda. Let rise for one 
hour. Shape into two flat cakes, let them double their bulk, 
bake in hot oven, split while hot and butter. Serve hot with 
sugar and butter. 



24 Two Hundred and Nine Ways of Preparing the Apple. 

APPLES AND RICE. 

Pare and core apples, place in a baking dish and fill the 
holes in the apples with chopped raisins and sugar; fill the 
spaces between the apples with rice that has been boiled for fif- 
teen minutes. Cover and bake for fifteen minutes, remove cover 
and bake for fifteen minutes longer. Serve hot with cream. 

APPLES IN RICE CUPS. 

Boil rice in salted water until tender. Half fill coffee cups 
and let stand until cold. Stand in a pan of hot water until they 
will slip from the cup easily. Scoop out a small place and lay 
a quarter of an apple that has been cooked in a rich syrup in 
the cavity. Serve with the apple syrup or cream. 

APPLE RELISH. 

Three pounds of apples diced with the skins on. Take three 
pounds sugar, one pound raisins, one pound pecans, two oranges ; 
remove peeling and grind it in meat grinder; then cut the orange 
into small pieces. Cook for one hour, adding the nuts five min- 
utes before removing from the stove. 

APPLE SCHMARREN. 

Make a batter of one tablespoon of pastry flour, two table- 
spoons of milk, a pinch of salt and a well beaten Ggg. Slice into 
this batter one good sized apple. Put into a frying pan one 
teaspoon of clear lard, heat it and pour in the batter, fry a nice 
brown and serve with powdered sugar. 

APPLE SHERBET. 

Boil one quart of apples in a pint of water until soft. Mash 
through a sieve. Add the juice of one orange and one lemon, 
half a pound of sugar and a quart of water. Beat well and 
freeze. When it becomes like slush, add the well beaten white 
of one egg and finish freezing. 

CRAB APPLE SHERBET. 

Put two quarts of quartered crab apples over the fire with 
enough water to keep them from burning. Cover and let sim- 
mer until tender; drain as for jelly. Boil one quart of water and 
one pint of sugar for twenty minutes from the time that it begins 
to boil. When cool, add one pint of the crab apple juice and the 
juice if one lemon and freeze. 



Two Hundred and Nine Ways of Preparing the Apple. 25 

SPICED CRAB APPLES. 

Select sound Siberian or Transcendent crabs with the stems 
on. Boil three pounds sugar and one and one-half pints of cider 
vinegar to a rich syrup; add two ounces of stick cinnamon. 
Drop a few of the crab apples into the syrup, turn and cook until 
tender, remove and place in jars, continue until the apples are 
all used, boil the syrup down and pour over the fruit. If the 
crab apples are very ripe it is better to steam them until tender; 
place in jars and pour the syrup over them. 

SAUSAGES AND FRIED APPLES. 

Prick the sausages well with a fork. Place in a deep frying 
pan; pour in enough boiling water to cover the bottom; cover 
and cook over a moderate fire. When the water evaporates, 
remove the cover and turn several times, that they may be 
nicely browned. Turn onto a platter. Core a number of large, 
tart apples, cut them in rings an inch thick and fry in the sau- 
sage fat. Garnish the sausage with the apples and serve. 

STUFFED APPLES TO SERVE WITH A ROAST. 

Into a sauce pan put two and a half cups of white stock, 
add a bay leaf, one teaspoonful of minced onion, half a tea- 
spoonful of salt and a very little pepper. Simmer for twenty 
minutes and strain. Pare and core ten tart, red apples, put 
them in a granite pan, pour the stock around, cover and simmer 
until tender, but not broken. Carefully remove from the stock 
and set aside. Blanch two cupfuls of chestnut meats, slice, 
cover with the stock, add four teaspoonfuls of currant jelly, 
half a saltspoonful of salt, a little paprika and simmer until the 
nuts are tender. Fill the center of the apples heaping full and 
garnish the roast meat with them. 

SPICED APPLES WITH MERINGUE. 

Pare and core six large apples and arrange in a baking dish. 
Mix three-fourths of a cup of sugar, one teaspoon of cinnamor 
and one-fourth of a teaspoon of salt, fill the cavities. Add one- 
fourth cup of water and bake until the apples are soft, basting 
frequently with the syrup. Remove from the oven and cool 
slightly, pile meringue on the top of each apples, return to the 
oven, bake eight minutes. Chill and serve with cream or custard 
sauce. 

For the meringue, beat the whites of two eggs until stiff 
and add very gradually, while beating constantly, four table- 
spoons of powdered sugar, add one-half teaspoon of vanilla. 



26 Two Hundred and Nine Ways of Preparing the Apple. 

APPLES EN SURPRISE. 

Make apple cups by cutting a thick slice from the stem end 
and removing the pulp v/ith a teaspoon. Fill the cups with 
equal quantities of the apple pulp, pecan meats and Maraschino 
cherries cut into small pieces. Add one teaspoon of sugar to 
each apple and bake until the apples are soft, but will hold 
their shape. Remove from the oven and add one teaspoon of 
Maraschino and one teaspoon of sherry to each cup. 

APPLE SPONGE. 

Cover one-half box of gelatin with cold water and allow it 
to stand for half an hour; then pour over it half a pint of boil- 
ing water and stir until dissolved. Mix a pint of strained apple 
sauce with the gelatin, add a pound of sugar and stir until it 
melts, and the juice of two lemons. Set on ice until it begins to 
thicken. Beat the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth, stir into 
the apple mixture and pour into a mould. Serve with whipped 
cream. 

APPLES STUFFED WITH FIGS. 

Pare and core large apples; fill centers with chopped figs, 
cover with sugar, place in a deep baking dish and add a little 
water; bake, basting well frequently. Serve cold with cream. 

SWEET CIDER FRAPPE. 

Pack the can of a freezer with one measure of salt mixed 
with three measures of crushed ice. When the can is frosted, 
pour in sweet cider and freeze like sherbet. Serve with roast 
turkey or immediately after it. 

APPLE SOUFFLE. 

Pare, core and cook four tart apples in just enough water to 
prevent burning. Pass through a sieve, sweeten to taste and 
add one teaspoon of lemon extract. Sift together four level 
tablespoons of cornstarch and one level tablespoon of flour, dis- 
solve in four tablespoons of cold water. Melt one tablespoon of 
butter and add one-fourth of a teaspoon of salt, pour in one cup 
of boiling water, add the flour and cornstarch mixture and cook 
until clear. Add the apple pulp, remove from the fire, stir thor- 
oughly. Beat three eggs separately, add first the yolks to the 
apple mixture and lastly the whites of the eggs. Pour into a 
shallow baking dish and bake in a moderately hot oven until 
puffed up and brown. Serve at once. 



Two Hundred and Nine Ways of Preparing the Apple. 27 

APPLE SLUMP. 

Pare, core and quarter apples, add a little water and sugar 
to taste, stew until tender and cover with the following mixture: 
Sift one pint of flour and one teaspoon of baking powder, add a 
pinch of salt and two cups of milk, mix and turn out onto a 
lightly floured board. Roll to a one-half inch thickness and 
place over the stewed apples, cover and cook for ten minutes 
without lifting the lid. Serve hot with cream and sugar or soft 
custard. 

APPLE STEPHAN. 

Mix two pounds of flour with one pound of finely chopped 
suet, add water to make a soft dough. Roll into a sheet one inch 
thick. Grease a shallow pan with hot suet, sprinkle with two 
tablespoons of brown sugar. Place the crust in the pan and 
cover with the following mixture: One pound of sliced apples, 
one-half pound of orange and lemon peel chipped, one-half 
pound of currants and one-half of shredded citron. Sprinkle 
with one cup of brown sugar, one saltspoon each of cloves and 
cinnamon. Squeeze the juice of three lemons over all and add 
one gill of water, cover with a thin layer of paste and bake in a 
moderate oven for four hours. Serve with sauce. 

STUFFED APPLES. 

Cut the blossom end off good cooking apples. Scoop out 
the center and fill with pecan meats, add two teaspoons of sugar 
and one teaspoon of brandy to each apple. Bake, with a little 
water in the pan, until tender, but not out of shape. Just before 
serving, press into each apple three or four brandied cherries. 

APPLE TART. 

Line a deep, round pie tin with rich pie paste and fill It 
three-quarters full of apples, pared, cored and sliced. Dredge 
with sugar, put a twist of crust around the edge. When nearly 
baked, spread with a thin layer of orange marmalade and pour 
over a rich custard made of one cup of milk, one tablespoon of 
sugar and two Qgg yolks. Return to the oven and bake until the 
custard is set. 

APPLE TARTS.— L 

Line patty pans with nice crust, put in each chopped apples 
and a little sugar, bake in a moderate oven and let cool. Just 
before serving, cover each tart with whipped cream and place 
a drop of currant jelly on the top of each. 



28 Two Hundred and Nine Ways of Preparing the Apple. 

APPLE TARTS.— II. 

Roll a good paste into a rectangular sheet. Cream one-half 
cup of butter, put over the pastry in small lumps. Roll up the 
pastry as for a jelly roll. Pat and roll this into a sheet and cut 
into rounds. With the small end of a pastry tube cut three 
small rounds from one-half of the circles of pastry. Place a 
teaspoon of rather dry apple sauce, which has been sweetened 
and chilled, sprinkle with a little cinnamon and brush the edges 
of the circle with cold water. Put a circle with holes over the 
apple sauce and press the edges together, brush the top with 
beaten egg and dredge lightly with sugar. Bake until a light 
brown. 

APPLE TARTLETS. 

Cover six fluted patty pans with pastry. Beat one-fourth 
cup of butter to a cream; gradually beat in one-fourth cup of 
sugar and the grated rind of an orange or lemon; add the yolks 
of two eggs, beating in one and then the other; then beat in 
one tablespoon of syrup from a can of apricots; also one-third 
cup of sifted flour, sifted again with a scant fourth of a teaspoon 
of baking powder. Put the mixture into the tins, lined with the 
pastry, and bake about twenty minutes, or until the filling is 
well rounded and of good color. If the cake mixture falls on 
removal from the oven, more flour or more baking was needed. 
Put half a canned apple, with skin removed (half a brandied 
peach may be substituted), on the top of each, cover with merin- 
gue and return to the oven for ten minutes, or until the meringue 
is cooked and lightly browned. Serve hot or cold for desert. 

MERINGUE FOR TARTLETS. 

Beat the whites of two eggs until dry, then gradually beat 
in two level tablespoons of sugar, and, finally, fold in two table- 
spoons of sugar and half a teaspoon of vanilla extract. 

PRUNE AND APPLE TART. 

Stone one can of prunes, put them into a pudding dish, add 
to them one pound of sliced apples, three tablespoons of sugar, 
one teaspoon of mixed spice and grated rind of half a lemon. 
Cover with a good pastry and bake in a hot oven until ready. 

APPLE TAFFY. 

To one pound of sugar add one-half tablespoon of vinegar 
and one-half cup of juice drained from stewed apples. Put the 



r 



Two Hundred and Nine Ways of Preparing the Apple. 29 

ingredients in an agate sauce pan and let boil to the "crack." 
Turn onto a buttered platter, and when cool enough to handle 
pull until white and glossy. 

APPLE TAPIOCA. 

Soak three-fourths of a cup of tapioca for one hour in 
water to cover, drain, add two and one-half cups of boiling water 
and one-half teaspoon of salt; cook in double boiler until trans- 
parent. Core and pare apples, arrange in a buttered baking dish, 
fill cavities with sugar, pour tapioca over apples and bake in a 
moderate oven until the apples are soft. Serve with sugar and 
cream or with cream sauce. Sago may be used instead of 
tapioca. 

CREAM SAUCE. 

Mix and beat until stiff three-fourths of a cup of thick 
cream and one-fourth of a cup of milk, add one-third of a cup of 
powdered sugar and one-half teaspoon of vanilla. 

APPLE TURNOVERS.— L 

Cut ordinary pie crust in squares. Put apple sauce through 
a sieve, add a few grains of salt and a few gratings of nutmeg. 
The apple sauce should not be too moist. Trace a figure on one 
side of the square of paste, on the other side diagonally place a 
spoonful of the apple sauce. Brush the edges of the paste 
around the apple with cold water, turn the other half of the 
paste over and press the edges closely together. Set the turn- 
overs on a buttered baking sheet and brush the tops with slightly 
beaten white of egg, dust with granulated sugar and bake in a 
moderate oven. 

APPLE TURNOVERS.— n. 

Sift together one pint of flour, one-half teaspoon of salt 
and two level teaspoons of baking powder, rub into the dry in- 
gredients one tablespoon of butter and add enough milk or 
water to make a soft dough. Roll one-half inch thick and cut 
with a biscuit cutter. Put two tablespoons of stewed apples on 
one-half of the dough; fold the other half over and pinch the 
edges together; place these in a baking pan, brush with milk 
and bake for twenty minutes. 

VIRGINIA APPLE TODDY. 

Bake tart apples until nearly tender, cover with brandy and 
sugar and bake slowly for two hours. The alcohol in the brandy 
evaporates, leaving only a delicious flavor. 



30 Two Hundred and Nine Ways of Preparing the Apple. 

APPLE WATER. 

Wipe, core and pare one large, sour apple, put two teaspoons 
of sugar in the cavity. Bake until tender; mash, pour one cup 
of boiling water over it and let stand one-half hour, and strain. 
This is especially refreshing for fever patients. 

APPLE WHIP. 

Pare, quarter and core four sour apples, steam until tender, 
and rub through a sieve; there should be three-fourths of ''a cup 
of pulp. Beat on a platter the whites of three eggs, gradually 
add the apple pulp, sweetened to taste, and continue beating. 
Pile lightly on a serving dish and chill. Serve with cream or 
soft custard. 

SOFT CUSTARD. 

Beat three eggs slightly, add one-fourth cup of sugar and 
one-eighth teaspoon of salt; add gradually two cups of scalded 
milk, stirring constantly; cook in double boiler until the mixture 
thickens, or until the spoon is coated. Strain immediately, cool 
and flavor. 

BAKED APPLES.— L 

Wipe and core sour apples. Place in a baking dish and fill 
centers with sugar and cinnamon, allowing one-half cup of sugar 
and one-fourth teaspoon of cinnamon to eight apples. Cover the 
bottom of the dish with boiling water and bake in a hot oven 
until soft, basting often with syrup in the dish. Serve hot or 
cold with cream. 

BAKED APPLES.— II. 

Peel and core tart apples; fill the holes with shredded 
citron, raisins, sugar and a little lemon peel. Place in baking 
dish and pour over them one-half cup of water and dust with 
granulated sugar. Bake in a slow oven until perfectly tender, 
sprinkle with soft bread crumbs and sugar ; bake for ten minutes 
and serve hot with cream or pudding sauce. 

BAKED APPLES.— IIL 

Core and pare large, tart apples; fill cavities with butter, 
sugar and spice and bake in the usual way. Cook parings, cores 
and one large chopped apple in water to cover. Strain juice, 
add the juice of one lemon and sugar in the proportion of two- 
thirds of a cupful to one cup of juice. Cook until it jellies and 
pour over the baked apples. Chill and serve with whipped 
cream. 



Two Hundred and Nine Ways of Preparing the Apple. 31 

APPLES BAKED IN STRAWBERRY JAM. 

Core tart apples and place in a baking dish; fill the cavities 
with strawberry jam and bake until soft. Serve hot with cream. 

BAKED APPLES, CREOLE STYLE. 

Cook cored apples in a little water and lemon juice. Place 
in a dish and fill centers with jelly or marmalade. Add one- 
fourth of a cup of sugar to the liquid, boil and pour over the 
apples. On the top of each apple place a meringue, pressing it 
from a pastry bag through a star tube. Put the apples in a 
moderate oven for about eight or ten minutes. Serve cold. 

SLICED APPLES BAKED IN CREAM. 

Pare, core and slice several apples, put into a baking dish 
and cover with cream. Bake for twenty minutes. Another good 
breakfast dish is made by covering the apples with well cooked 
oatmeal and baking for twenty minutes. Serve with cream. 

BAKED APPLES WITH OATMEAL. 

Core apples; fill the space from which the core was taken 
with cold cooked oatmeal. Stand the apples in a baking dish, 
sprinkle with sugar and add one-half cup of water. Bake in a 
moderate oven until soft. Serve with cream, using a little more 
oatmeal for garnish. 

PANNED BAKED APPLES. 

Core and cut apples into eighths. Put a layer in a baking 
dish, sprinkle with two tablespoons of sugar, add another layer 
of apples and continue until the dish is full. Add to each quart 
of apples a half pint of water; cover the dish and bake in a 
quick oven until soft. The skin, which is left on, gives a fine 
flavor. Serve hot in the dish in which they were baked. This 
is very nice when served with the meat course at dinner. 

BAKED SWEET APPLES. 

Wipe and core eight sweet apples. Put in baking dish and 
fill cavities with sugar, allowing one-third of a cup. Add two- 
thirds of a cup of boiling water and cover; bake for three hours 
in a slow oven, adding more water if necessary. 

APPLE SAUCE CAKE.— I. 

Cream half a cup of butter and beat in one cup of sugar; 
add a cup of raisins chopped and dredged with flour, one salt- 



32 Two Hundred and Nine Ways of Preparing the Apple. 

spoonful of salt, one and one-half teaspoonfuls of cinnamon 
and one-half teaspoonful of grated nutmeg. Mix these ingredi- 
ents. Dissolve one teaspoonful of baking soda in a little warm 
water and stir into a cupful of unsweetened apples; let it foam 
over into the other ingredients and beat thoroughly; add two 
cups of flour and bake three-quarters of an hour in a moderate 
oven. 

APPLE SAUCE CAKE.— II. 

One cup of unsweetened apple sauce, one and one-half cups 
of sugar, one-half cup of shortening, yolk of one egg, one level 
teaspoon of cinnamon, one-half teaspoon of cloves, one-half 
teaspoon of soda, one level teaspoon of baking powder and two 
cups of flour. Strain apple sauce, add soda, melted shortening 
and flour sifted with baking powder and spices. Beat all thor- 
oughly and bake in two layers and put together with frosting. 

DANISH APPLE CAKE. 

Stew two pounds of good cooking apples, using as little 
water as possible; add cinnamon and sugar to taste. Toss one- 
fourth of a pound of bread crumbs in melted butter, let them 
brown lightly. Line the bottom of a well greased cake tin with 
a thick layer of crumbs, then a layer of apple sauce, repeating 
until the pan is full. Bake in a quick oven for one-half hour, 
and when cold turn from the pan. Serve with whipped cream. 

DUTCH APPLE CAKE. 

Mix one cup of scalded milk, one-third of a cup of butter, 
one-third of a cup of sugar and one-half a teaspoon of salt. 
When lukewarm, add one yeast cake, broken into small pieces, 
two unbeaten eggs and flour to make a soft dough. Beat thor- 
oughly, cover and let rise until the mixture has doubled its bulk. 
Beat thoroughly and again let rise. Spread as thinly as possible 
in a well buttered dripping pan, brush over with melted butter. 
Press sliced apples into the dough in even rows. Sprinkle with 
one-fourth cup of sugar mixed with one-half teaspoon of cin- 
namon, then with two tablespoons of well washed currants. 
Cover and let rise; bake in a moderate oven for thirty minutes. 
Cut in squares and serve plain, or with whipped cream. 

DRIED APPLE FRUIT CAKE. 

Boil two cups of dried apples in two cups of molasses. 
Cream one cup of butter with two cups of brown sugar, add four 
beaten eggs and two cups of sour milk; sift together five cups 
of flour, two teaspoons of flour, two teaspoons of baking powder, 
one teaspoon of cinnamon and one-half teaspoon of cloves. Stir 



Two Hundred and Nine Ways of Preparing the Apple. 33 

into the dry ingredients; add two pounds of raisins and one 
pound of currants, well floured, and two pounds of English wal- 
nut meats broken into small pieces. Bake for three hours in a 
moderate oven. 

DRIED APPLE CAKE.— I. 

Soak two cups of dried apples over night, drain and chop 
fine; add one cup of molasses and let simmer for three hours; 
let cool. Cream one cup of butter and one and one-half cups of 
brown sugar; add one-half cup of sour milk, three beaten eggs 
and the apple mixture. Add three and one-half cups of flour, one 
teaspoon each of soda, cloves, allspice and cinnamon sifted 
together. Bake in one loaf for two hours in a moderate oven. 

DRIED APPLE CAKE.— II. 

Chop fine three cups of dried apples which have been well 
soaked. Add three cups sugar, one cup of raisins and one cup 
of currants; cook in very little water until the apples are soft. 
When cold, add three well beaten eggs, one-half cup butter, one 
teaspoon each of cinnamon, cloves and allspice, and three cups 
of flour sifted with one teaspoon of soda. Stir well and bake 
in one loaf. Bake for one hour in a moderate oven. 

GERMAN APPLE CAKE. 

Sift together two cups of flour, half a teaspoonful of salt 
and three and one-half level teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 
Work into the dry ingredients one-fourth of a cup of butter. 
Beat one egg, add three-fourths of a cup of milk and stir into the 
first mixture. Spread in a well buttered shallow pan. Have 
pared and cored four or five apples, press down into the dough; 
sprinkle the apples with well washed dried currants and the 
edge of the dough thickly with powdered sugar. Bake until the 
apples are tender, and serve with cream and sugar or hard sauce. 

TO DRY APPLES. 

Select sound fruit that has matured. Pare, core and quar- 
ter, and slice lengthwise. String and dry near the fire,^ or spread 
on frames covered with muslin or netting, and let dry in the sun. 
If the winter apples are not keeping well, it is a good plan^to 
dry them to prevent waste. Although some have a prejudice 
against dried apples, they can be made very palatable with a 
little care. 

DRIED APPLE ROLY POLY. 

Sift a pint of flour, two tablespoons of baking powder and 
one-half teaspoon of salt, rub in one tablespoon of shortening. 



34 Two Hundred and Nine Ways of Preparing the Apple. 

Add two-thirds cup of water, knead quickly and roll out into a 
very thin sheet. Brush with melted butter. Chop dried apples 
fine; the apples should have been soaked over night; sprinkle 
over the dough the apples and four tablespoons of sugar. Roll 
up and place in a buttered baking pan, brush with water and 
bake in a moderately hot oven for three-quarters of an hour. 
After the roll has been baking for half an hour, baste with a 
tablespoon of sugar dissolved in two tablespoons of water; 
return to the oven to glaze. Serve hot with cream and sugar. 

APPLE DUMPLINGS. 

Take large baker's buns, slice off the outer crust and cut 
out so as to make a cup; brush over with melted butter and 
place in the oven to dry and brown. Baked medium sized apples, 
from which the cores have been removed and the center filled 
with butter and sugar. Place the apple in the cup and serve 
with whipped cream. 

BAKED APPLE DUMPLINGS. 

Cut rich pie crust into six-inch squares. In the center of 
each place a small apple, pared and cored. Fill the apples with 
sugar, cinnamon and a whole clove. Wet the edges of the pastry 
with white of egg, fold it over the apple, pinch and flute to look 
well; bake about forty minutes; toward the last, brush the top 
with white of egg and sprinkle with sugar. Serve with hard 
sauce. 

BOILED APPLE DUMPLINGS. 

Beat well, without separating, two eggs, add a pinch of salt, 
one pint of milk and one cup of flour. To a second cup of flour, 
add two teaspoons of baking powder; add this to the batter and 
as much more flour as is necessary to make a soft dough. Roll 
out quickly one-half inch thick. Cut into squares, lay two or 
three quarters of pared apples on each, sprinkle with sugar and 
pinch the dough around the apples. Have a number of pudding 
cloths ready, wrung out of cold water, and sprinkled well with 
flour. Put a dumpling in each, leave a little room for swelling 
and tie tightly. Drop into a kettle of rapidly boiling water and 
keep the water at a steady boil for an hour. Serve hot with 
hard sauce. 

Have a saucer in the bottom of kettle to prevent burning. 

INDIVIDUAL APPLE DUMPLINGS. 

Butter six muffin rings and set them on a shallow agate pan 
which has been well buttered. Fill the rings with sliced apples. 
Make a dough of one and one-half cups of pastry flour sifted 



Two Hundred and Nine Ways of Preparing the Apple. 35 

several times with one-half teaspoon of salt and three level 
teaspoons of baking powder. Chop into the dry ingredients one- 
fourth of a cup of shortening, gradually add three-fourths of a 
cup of milk or water. Drop the dough on the apples on the 
rings. Let bake about twenty minutes. With a spatula remove 
each dumpling from the ring, place on a dish with the crust side 
down. Serve with cream and sugar, hard sauce or with a fruit 
sauce. 

STEAMED APPLE DUMPLINGS. 

Fill well buttered muffin pans half full of rather thick apple 
sauce. Two cups of flour, two teaspoons of baking powder, one 
teaspoon of salt, two tablespoons of butter rubbed thoroughly 
into the dry ingredients. Add enough milk to make a soft 
dough and drop one large tablespoon on top of each pan of apple 
sauce. Bake for twenty minutes in a rather hot oven. Serve 
hot with lemon sauce or maple syrup. 

APPLE JELLY. 

Cut twelve pounds of apples into quarters and core. Put 
into preserving kettle and add six quarts of water, cover and 
boil gently for twenty minutes. Drain over night and strain the 
juice. Boil rapidly for five minutes and add one pound of hot 
sugar to each pint of juice; stir until the sugar dissolves, and boil 
quickly until it will form a jelly on the spoon or on a cold plate. 
Add the seeds of two vanilla beans and pour into sterilized 
glasses. Cover with paraffine. 

APPLE AND BARBERRY JELLY. 

Equal parts of barberry and apple juice; let boil for twenty 
minutes and add an equal amount of sugar. Let boil briskly 
until it jellies on a spoon. Quince, grape or wild plum may be 
used instead of the barberry juice. 

APPLE MINT JELLY. 

Wash, quarter and core either crab apples or sour apples. 
Add water, but not enough to cover. Simmer, stirring occasion- 
ally until soft. Dain in a bag and measure juice. To each cup 
of juice take three-fourths of a cup of sugar; heat the sugar in 
the oven. Heat the apple juice to the boiling point quickly and 
let boil for ten or fifteen minutes, skimming as needed, and add 
the hot sugar; let boil again, and when a little jellies on a cold 
saucer, add several sprigs of spearmint and enough green vege- 
table coloring matter to make a delicate green. Strain into 



36 Two Hundred and Nine Ways of Preparing the Apple. 

glasses, half filling them; when this becomes firm, add more 
jelly made without the mint and coloring matter. The delicate 
green and pink make a very pretty jelly to serve with lamb. 

CRAB APPLE JELLY. 

Wash and core crab apples, put into a preserving kettle and 
add cold water until it can be seen just below the top layer of 
the apples. Cook for twenty minutes. Drain in a jelly bag for 
three hours. To each pint of juice add one-half pound of sugar. 
Heat sugar in the oven. Bring the juice to the boiling point and 
boil briskly for ten minutes; add the hot sugar and boil for two 
minutes. Pour into glasses and cover with paraffin. Crab apple 
juice added to plum, barberry, quince or peach juice makes deli- 
cious jelly. Because of the large amount of pectose present in 
apples, the juice makes a firm jelly very readily. 

EVAPORATED APPLE JELLY. 

Boil evaporated apples until soft, strain juice through a jelly 
bag, add one-half cup of sugar to each cup of juice and boil 
until it will jelly on a cold plate. A rose geranium or lemon 
verbena leaf adds flavor to the jelly. 

APPLE AND MOUNTAIN ASH JELLY. 

Take equal parts of quartered apples and the berries of the 
mountain ash. Boil until soft. Drain and add one pound of 
sugar to each pint of juice. Boil until it jellies. Turn into 
tumblers and cover with paraffin. 

APPLE AND RHUBARB JELLY. 

Cut apples into quarters. To every pound of apples add one 
cup of rhubarb juice. Let simmer until apples are soft. Strain 
through a jelly bag without pressure. To each pint of juice add 
one pound of sugar. Boil briskly, stirring well and removing 
all scum until of the desired consistency. Pour into tumblers 
and cover with paraffin. 

The addition of the thin outer rind of the lemon is consid- 
ered an improvement to apple jelly. 

SPICED APPLE JELLY. 

Wash and quarter apples. Cover with three quarts of cold 
water and one quart of vinegar. Boil until soft. Drain through 
a colander. Strain juice through a jelly bag. Take equal meas- 
ures of sugar and juice, two dozen whole cloves and some stick 
cinnamon. Boil until it jells; strain out the spices. 



Two. Hundred and Nine Ways of Preparing the Apple. 37 

APPLE PRESERVES.— I. 

Use three-quarters of a pound of sugar to each pound of 
apples. Good flavored apples that are not easily broken should 
be used. Make a rich syrup of sugar and water and add a little 
ginger root tied in a bag; add a little lemon juice and boil a few 
apples at time until transparent. Place in jars or glasses; boil 
the syrup until very thick and pour over the apples. Crab 
apples make delicious preserves; core without paring until clear 
in a rich syrup, drain and place in jars; fill with the syrup boiled 
down. 

APPLE PRESERVES.— II. 

Make a syrup of one pound of sugar and to half a pint of 
water add the thin outer rind and the juice of one lemon; let 
boil briskly for five minutes. Drop quarters of apples into the 
syrup and cook gently until clear; stand aside to cool. When 
cold, transfer carefully to jars and boil the syrup down. Pour 
over the apples and seal. 

APPLE PRESERVES.— III. 

Drop pared and quartered apples into clear lime water to 
prevent discoloration. When enough are ready for use, rinse in 
clear, cold water and pack in their own weight of sugar. Let 
stand twenty-four hours; drain syrup off and boil. For each 
cup of syrup, add one tablespoon of ginger tea. Add apples and 
cook until clear, skim out, lay on a platter, cover with glass and 
set for six hours in the sunshine. Return to syrup and cook for 
two minutes, skim out and pack in jars. Add more sugar and 
cook the syrup until as thick as honey; pour over the fruit; add 
two whole cloves and a bit of candied lemon peel to each jar 
and cover with paraffin. 

APPLE AND QUINCE PRESERVES. 

Pare, core and quarter Baldwin apples ; add a third as many 
quinces that have been pared, cored and cut into small pieces 
and boiled until tender. Make a syrup of the water in which 
the quinces were boiled and as much sugar as there are apples 
and quinces. Let boil, skim and drop the quinces and apples in, 
and let boil for fifteen minutes; dip out carefully and put into 
jelly glasses; boil the syrup until it will jelly and pour over the 
fruit. 

APPLE CHIPS. 

Cut eight pounds of sweet apples into small pieces. Don't 
pare. Add four pounds of sugar and one-fourth of a pound of 
Canton ginger. Add the sugar and ginger to the apples and let 



38 Two Hundred and Nine Ways of Preparing the Apple. 

stand for twenty-four hours; add four lemons cut into small 
pieces, rejecting seeds. Cook slowly for three hours. Put into 
glasses or stone jars and cover with paraffin. 

PRESERVED HYSLOP CRAB APPLES. 

Cut out the blossom, but leave on the stem. Cover the 
bottom of an earthenware crock with water; put in a layer 
of apples. Cover with a thick layer of sugar. Add a layer of 
crab apples, and continue in this manner until the crock is full. 
Cover and bake for eight or ten hours in a very slow oven. 
Cover, and when cool place in a dark, cool place. The result is 
a delicious, translucent apple in a red jelly. 

PRESERVED APPLES (WHOLE). 

Pare and core large, firm apples. Boil the parings in water 
for fifteen minutes, allowing a pint to each pound of parings. 
Strain, and add three-fourths of a pound of sugar to each pint 
of water, as measured at first; add the grated rind of one-fourth 
lemon to each pint of syrup and return to the kettle and let boil 
for five minutes, skim and pour over the cold raw apples. Let 
stand until cold. Then cover and cook slowly until transparent. 
If directions are carefully followed the apples will remain un- 
broken. 

PRESERVED APPLES. 

Quarter and core apples; fill an earthen crock two-thirds 
full, cover and bake slowly for several hours. Seal in airtight 
jars. When ready to use, stand the jar in a kettle of water and 
heat; they taste like freshly baked apples when served with 
cream and sugar. 

APPLE PUDDING.— L 

Sift together one and one-half cups of flour, two teaspoons 
of sugar, one-fourth teaspoon of salt, and one and one-half tea- 
spoons of baking powder. Work into the dry ingredients three 
tablespoons of butter, and add one-half cup of milk. Butter a 
quart pudding dish and fill two-thirds full of apples cut in quar- 
ters; sprinkle with sugar and add two teaspoons of lemon juice 
and one-half teaspoon of nutmeg or cinnamon. Cover and bake 
.until soft. Roll the dough mixture out lightly, place over the 
apples and bake for twenty minutes, and serve with hard sauce. 

APPLE PUDDING.— II. 

One cup of flour, one-half cup of milk, one-half cup of 
sugar, one egg, two tablespoons of butter, one teaspoon of baking 
powder. Beat well and pour over apples .that have been sliced 



Two Hundred and Nine Ways of Preparing the Apple. 39 

and placed in a well buttered pudding dish. Bake in a moderate 
oven until the apples are soft; test with a toothpick. Serve hot 
with cream or hard sauce. 



APPLE PUDDING.— III. 

Pare and slice two quarts of tart apples; add one cup of 
water and cook slowly until soft. Rub through a sieve. Sweeten 
to taste, and when cool add one tablespoon of lemon juice and 
the yolks of four well beaten eggs. Turn into a buttered dish 
and bake for one-half hour in a hot oven. Let cool for a few 
minutes and cover with a meringue made of the whites of four 
eggs and four tablespoons of powdered sugar and one teaspoon 
of lemon juice. Dust with sugar and brown. Serve either hot 
or cold. 

HARD SAUCE. 

Cream one-third cup of butter, gradually add one cup of 
powdered sugar and two-thirds teaspoon of vanilla. 

APPLE AND BROWN BREAD PUDDING. 

Mix two-thirds of a cup of chopped suet with two cups of 
Boston brown bread crumbs; add two cups of apples chopped 
fine, half a teaspoon of salt, a cup of raisins dredged with two 
tablespoons of flour and half a teaspoon of ginger or mace. 
Beat one egg, add a cup of milk and stir into the dry ingredients. 
Steam in a buttered mould for two and one-half hours. Serve 
with creamy sauce. 

APPLE CHRISTMAS PUDDING. 

Pare, core and quarter six tart apples. Add a cup of water, 
cover and boil quickly for five minutes. Press through a sieve; 
add a tablespoon of butter and a cup of sugar. Beat three eggs 
until light; add one pint of milk and a cup of hot boiled rice. 
Add the apples and bake for half an hour. Lemon or orange 
rind may be added. Serve cold with cream or lemon sauce. 

APPLE CORNMEAL PUDDING. 

Pare, core and slice very thin twelve medium sized King 
apples. To one quart of sweet milk add one quart of cornmeal, 
one teaspoon of salt, four tablespoons of chopped suet, one cup 
of molasses, one teaspoon of soda dissolved in the molasses, and^ 
the sliced apples. Stir well and pour into a well buttered pud- 
ding mould. Steam for four hours and serve hot with any good 
pudding sauce. 



40 Two Hundred and Nine Ways of Preparing the Apple. 

APPLE CUSTARD PUDDING. 

To one quart of pared and quartered apples add one-half 
cup of water and stew until soft; remove from the fire and add 
one-half cup of sugar, two tablespoons of butter and the juice 
and grated rind of one lemon. Mix two tablespoons of flour with 
two cups of fine bread crumbs, stir into the apple mixture and 
add the well beaten whites of two eggs. Pour into a buttered 
pudding dish and bake for forty-five minutes in a moderate oven. 
Serve with hard sauce. 

APPLE SAUCE PUDDING. 

Cream one-quarter cup of butter with one-half cup of brown 
sugar; add one beaten egg, two tablespoons of milk, one-half 
teaspoon of baking powder, and enough flour to make a stiff 
batter. Bake in two layers; put together while hot with apple 
sauce and serve with custard. 

APPLE AND MARMALADE PUDDING. 

Pare about three dozen tart apples, or less, according to the 
size of family. Cut them into quarters and place in a sauce pan 
with half a glass of water and the peel of one lemon. Put on 
the fire and cook slowly until the apples are tender. Remove the 
lemon peel and add six ounces of sugar, then go on cooking until 
the quantity is reduced to one-half, stirring from time to time 
to prevent burning. Butter a tin mould and cut a piece of bread 
one-quarter of an inch thick that will fit the bottom. Cut strips 
of bread of the same thickness about an inch wide. Dip the 
pieces of bread in melted butter, line the mould with them and 
pour in one-half the quantity of apples, then a layer of peach 
or orange marmalade and over this the remainder of the apples. 
Cover with a piece of bread dipped in butter and bake in a 
moderate oven for one hour. Turn out of the mould and serve 
cold with cream. 

BREAD AND BUTTER APPLE PUDDING. 

Cover the bottom of a shallow, well buttered pudding dish 
with apple sauce. Butter slices of stale bread, cut into diamond- 
shaped pieces, and place as close together as possible over the 
apple sauce, buttered side up. Sprinkle with sugar and a few 
drops of vanilla. Bake in a moderate oven and serve hot with 
cream. 

BIRD'S NEST PUDDING. 

Core and pare eight apples, put into a deep, well buttered 
pudding dish, fill the centers with sugar and a little nutmeg, 
add one pint of water and bake until tender, but not soft. To 



Two Hundred and Nine Ways of Preparing the Apple. 41 

two cups of flour add three teaspoons of baking powder, one 
teaspoon of salt, one pint of milk and the well beaten yolks of 
four eggs; stir thoroughly and fold in the whites of four eggs 
beaten dry. Pour over the apples and bake for one hour in a 
moderate oven. Serve hot with any pudding sauce. 

INDIAN PUDDING WITH APPLES. 

Scald two quarts of sweet milk, stir in a cup of cornmeai 
stir until the mixture thickens. Remove from the fire, add one 
and one-sixth cups of molasses, one teaspoon of salt, one-half 
teaspoon each of nutmeg and cinnamon, and two cups of sweet 
apples pared, cored and quartered. Pour into a deep pudding 
dish and bake for four hours. When the pudding has baked 
for one and one-half hours, add, without stirring, one pint of 
cold milk. Serve with cream and sugar or syrup. 

CREAMY SAUCE. 

Boil one cup of sugar and half of a cup of water to the soft 
ball stage; then pour the syrup in a fine stream over the well 
beaten white of one egg; continue beating until cold; fold in 
one cup of double cream beaten dry; add one-half of a teaspoon 
of vanilla. 

PAN PUDDING. 

Add sufficient milk to a pint of flour to make a stiff dough; 
knead for fifteen minutes. Cut into four pieces; roll each piece 
in a thin sheet about one-sixteenth of an inch thick and the size 
of an ordinary roasting pan. Grease the pan with melted suet, 
place a layer of the paste in the pan and brush over with melted 
suet. Mix one-fourth pound of almonds blanched and chopped 
fine, one cup of chopped raisins, one-half pound of chopped 
apples and one cup of brown sugar. Put a layer of this mixture 
on the paste and cover with another layer of paste, brush with 
suet and continue until all the sheets of paste are used. Brush 
over with suet and sprinkle with sugar ; bake in a quick oven for 
three-quarters of an hour. 

APPLE RICE PUDDING. 

Sprinkle one cup of thoroughly washed rice into two quarts 
of rapidly boiling salted water; boil for fifteen minutes and 
drain. Spread the rice in the center of a good sized square of 
cheese cloth. The rice should be about one-half inch thick and 
cover a space as large as a dinner plate. Pare, core and quarter 
four good sized, tart apples, sprinkle with sugar and heap in the 
center of the rice. Gather up the ends of the cloth so that the 



42 Two Hundred and Nine Ways of Preparing the Apple. 

rice will cover the apples, and tie tightly. Boil in a good sized 
kettle of boiling water for one hour. This will come out per- 
fectly round if handled carefully. Serve hot with cream or any 
pudding sauce. 

APPLE ROLY POLY PUDDING. 

Pare, core and slice sour apples; roll a rich baking powder 
dough one-half inch thick, lay the sliced apples on the dough and 
roll, tuck in the ends and prick deeply with a fork, steam for 
one and three-fourths hours, or wrap in a well floured pudding 
cloth, tie up the ends, plunge into boiling water and boil for 
three-quarters of an hour. Serve with hard sauce. 

ROYAL APPLE PUDDING. 

Select enough large apples to fill a pudding dish; pare, cut 
a thick slice from the top and save, core and scrape out the 
centers until only a thin wall is left. To the scrapings add a 
finely chopped apple, a few chopped almonds and raisins, a 
little sugar and cinnamon. Press the mixture into the apple 
shells and replace the lids; place the apples in a well buttered 
baking dish; set in a pan of hot water and bake until the apples 
are tender. Beat four whole eggs until light colored, gradually 
add a scant cup of sugar and pour over the apples. Bake in a 
moderate oven until the meringue is done, and serve with cream 
or lemon sauce. 

STEAMED APPLE PUDDING.— I. 

Mix and sift two cups of flour, four teaspoons of baking 
powder and one-half teaspoon of salt. Work in two tablespoons 
of butter and gradually add three-fourths cup of milk. Toss on 
a floured board, pat and roll out. Have ready four apples pared, 
cored and cut into eighths; place apples in center of dough and 
sprinkle with one tablespoon of sugar mixed with one-fourth 
tablespoon each of salt and cinnamon or nutmeg; bring the 
dough around the apples and carefully lift into a buttered mould 
or a five-pound lard pail. Cover closely, place on a trivet in a 
kettle containing boiling water, cover the kettle and steam for 
one hour and twenty-five minutes, adding more boiling water 
if necessary. Allow the water to come up half way around the 
mould. Serve with Huntington sauce. 

HUNTINGTON SAUCE. 

Boil one cup of molasses and one and one-half tablespoons 
of butter for eight minutes. Remove from the fire and add two 
tablespoons of lemon juice, or if lemon juice is not at hand, add 
one tablespoon of vinegar. 



Two Hundred and Nine Ways of Preparing the Apple. 43 

STEAMED APPLE PUDDING.— II. 

Line a mould with slices of buttered bread, put in a layer 
of stewed apples, a layer of buttered bread, continue until the 
mould is filled. Add one pint of milk to two beaten eggs; pour 
over the apples and bread and steam for one hour. Serve with 
cream or pudding sauce, or liquid sauce. 

LIQUID SAUCE. 

Mix one tablespoon of flour with one-half cup of sugar, pour 
over it one-half pint of boiling water; boil for one minute and 
pour slowly over one well beaten egg; add the juice of one-half 
lemon. 

SAGO APPLE PUDDING. 

Soak one cupful of sago in a quart of water for one hour; 
core and pare eight apples and place in an agate baking pan. 
Boil the sago until clear and add one teaspoon of salt, thin with 
hot water until about as thick as heavy cream, and pour over 
the apples; bake for one hour and serve with cream and sugar. 

SHAKER APPLE PIE. 

Pare, core and cut into eighths sour apples and put into a 
lower crust; add half a pint of seeded raisins. Put on the upper 
crust, being careful to not let it stick to the lower crust. Bake 
in a slow oven until the apples are thoroughly cooked and 
the crust is nicely browned; this will require about forty min- 
utes. While the pie is hot take off the top crust and lay it aside, 
then with a wooden or silver knife stir the apples and remove 
any hard pieces that may be left. Add sugar, nutmeg and a 
small piece of butter and replace the top crust. 

APPLE WASHINGTON PIE. 

Take two large apples grated, whites of two eggs, cupful 
of sugar, juice of half a lemon, beat this until thick and white 
and spread between layers of Washington pie (which is really 
a plain jelly cake) and then heap some on top. 

ENGLISH APPLE PIE. 

Butter a shallow agate dish. Select one that is deeper than 
a pie plate. Fill the dish with sliced apples ; sprinkle with a cup 
of sugar, half a teaspoon of salt and a little nutmeg. Put over 
it two teaspoons of butter in bits; add three tablespoons of cold 
water. Cover with good paste and bake for forty minutes. 
Serve with cream. 



44 Two Hundred and Nine Ways of Preparing the Apple. 

FAIRY APPLE PIE. 

Core, quarter and steam four large, tart apples; rub through 
a sieve, sweeten to taste and chill. Beat the whites of three 
eggs until stiff and dry; add the apples and flavor to taste and 
beat again. Turn into a half-baked pastry shell and finish 
baking. Serve hot with plain or whipped cream and sugar. 

FRESH APPLE CUSTARD PIE. 

To one pint of apple sauce add one quart of sweet milk, 
four eggs, one tablespoon cornstarch, pinch of salt, one-fourth 
grated nutmeg, one tablespoon melted butter, juice of one lemon 
and grated rind of half a lemon, and bake with undercrust only. 

KENTUCKY PIE. 

Steam six large, tart apples and run them through a colander ; 
stir in while hot one spoonful of butter. When cool, stir in the 
yolks of three eggs, the rind and juice of one lemon and one 
teacupful of sugar, which have been beaten together. Cover a 
deep plate, such as you use for squash pies, with good pie crust 
and fill with the mixture, baking in a moderate oven forty 
minutes. 

POT APPLE PIE. 

Peel and quarter eight nice tart apples (Greenings are the 
best), and slice in strips about half a pound of fat salt pork, and 
mix a nice light biscuit dough. Then take an iron kettle and 
lay strips of the pork across the bottom about half an inch apart ; 
then lay on that loosely some of the quartered apples, then sugar 
and cinnamon, then slice your biscuit dough in strips about the 
same as the pork and crosswise, leaving about an inch between 
each strip. Repeat this operation until you have used up your 
material, having the biscuit dough on top. Then pour down the 
side of the kettle carefully a cup of boiling water, cover and cook 
slowly for one hour and a half, adding boiling water when neces- 
sary. This is delicious when served with whipped cream. 

PASTRY. 

General Rules. — Have everything cold; do not make the 
dough too moist; use pastry flour if possible; roll only once. 
Paste kept on ice over night becomes much more flaky than 
when first made. 

To prevent the lower crust from becoming soaked, brush 
over with white of egg. Brush the edge with unbeated white 
of egg or water and press the two crusts together with the thumb 
and finger, a pastry roller or the tines of a fork. Always leave 



Two Hundred and Nine Ways of Preparing the Apple. 45 

an opening in the center of the upper crust that the steam may 
escape. Bake pies having a cooked filling in a quick oven and 
those with an uncooked filling in a moderate oven. 

Let pies cool upon plates on which they are made, be- 
cause slipping them onto cold plates develops moisture, which 
always destroys the crispness of the lower crust. 

BEATING AND BAKING A MERINGUE. 

Have cold, fresh eggs, beat the whites until frothy; add to 
each white one level tablespoon of powdered sugar. Beat until 
so stiff that it can be cut with a knife. Spread on the pie and 
bake with the oven door open until a rich golden brown. Too 
much sugar causes a meringue to liquify; if not baked long 
enough the same effect is produced. 

PLAIN PASTRY. 

Sift one cup of flour and one-fourth teaspoon of salt into a 
bowl, rub into it five level tablespoons of shortening until the 
whole is reduced to a fine powder; add cold water, slowly, to 
make a stiff dough. Place on a slightly floured board and roll 
into a circular shape to fit the plate. Fit it loosely into the plate, 
as it shrinks when baked. 

APPLE PIE.— I. 

Line a pie plate with good paste. Fill with thin slices of 
good cooking apples, sprinkle with one-half cup of sugar which 
has been mixed with a heaping teaspoon of flour and a pinch of 
salt; cover with an upper crust and bake in a moderate oven 
for half an hour. 

APPLE PIE.— II. 

Line a deep pie plate with good paste; pare, core and chop 
enough tart apples to make one quart; stir through the apples 
one cup of granulated sugar which has been mixed with one 
tablespoon of dry flour, and a pinch of salt. Squeeze the juice 
from half a lemon evenly through the apple mixture and fill 
the pie plate; dot with small pieces of butter. Lay one-half 
inch strips of pastry across the top, crossing them in diamond- 
shape. Bake in a moderate oven. 

APPLE PIE.— III. 

Pare, core and cut into eighths four or five sour apples; fill 
a pie plate that has been lined with paste. Mix one-third of a 
cup of sugar, one-eighth of a teaspoon of salt, one-fourth of a 



46 Two Hundred and Nine Ways of Preparing the Apple. 

teaspoon of nutmeg, one teaspoon of lemon juice, and a few 
gratings of lemon rind, sprinkle over the apples; dot over with 
one teaspoon of butter cut into bits. Wet edges of crust, cover 
with upper crust and bake forty to forty-five minutes in a mod- 
erate oven. 

A good pie may be made without the lemon juice, butter 
or lemon rind. Evaporated apples may be used in place of fresh 
ones if soaked over night in cold water. 

APPLE CUSTARD PIE. 

Heat a pint of milk steamirig hot and pour it into a mixture 
of three eggs slightly beaten, three heaping tablespoons of sugar, 
a pinch of salt and a very little nutmeg or lemon. Grate one 
cup of apple, using mellow, slightly tart fruit; add to the milk 
mixture and bake in a very moderate oven without an upper crust. 
If the pie is baked too quickly the apple will separate from the 
milk. 

APPLE AND COCOANUT PIE. 

Line a deep pie plate with pastry. Pare and grate apples, 
sweeten and flavor to taste with sugar and cinnamon or lemon. 
Sprinkle the pastry with well shredded cocoanut, fill out the 
apple mixture and bake. When almost done, sprinkle with cocoa- 
nut and do not leave in the oven long enough to brown. 



APPLE AND PINEAPPLE PIE. 

Line a deep plate with paste; chop a quart of tart, ripe 
apples and mix with one-half cup of sugar, a pinch of salt and 
a level tablespoon of dry flour; dot with bits of butter and bake 
in a moderate oven until the apples are soft. Simmer until 
tender one-half cup of grated pineapple; add one-fourth cup of 
sugar and a few drops of lemon juice. Spread boiling hot 
over the pie and cover with a meringue made of the whites of 
two eggs and two tablespoons of powdered sugar. Brown in a 
moderate oven. Grated quince may be used in place of the pine- 
apple. 



APPLE PIE DECORATED WITH CREAM AND CHEESE. 

Make an apple pie after your favorite recipe. Have ready 
a cream cheese, press through a ricer, cut and fold into the cheese 
a cup of double cream beaten until solid; add a few grains of 
salt. Put this mixture through a pastry tube, in any pattern, 
on top of the pie. Serve as a dessert at either luncheon or dinner. 



Two Hundred and Nine Ways of Preparing the Apple. 47 

DATE AND APPLE PIE. 

Line a pie plate with a rather rich crust ; fill it with a mixture 
of chopped dates and apples, sprinkle over half a cup of sugar 
and one teaspoon of cinnamon; add two tablespoons of water; 
cover with a top crust and bake about one-half hour in a mod- 
erate oven. 

DRIED APPLE PIE. 

Soak and stew apples until tender, pass through a sieve and 
add sugar, a little orange or lemond rind and a small amount of 
butter. Fill and bake as any other pie. Serve warm with sweet- 
ened cream. 

DRIED APPLE CUSTARD PIE. 

Stew apples until done and rub through a colander. Then 
add two yolks and one white, well beaten, one-half cup butter, 
one-half cup sugar, one scant teaspoon cornstarch, juice of one 
lemon and one-fourth nutmeg. Beat all together and bake with 
bottom crust only. When done cover with meringue and brown 
in the oven. 

APPLE PEANUT SALAD. 

Pare, core and chop slightly acid apples and mix them with 
half as much chopped celery. Mix a dressing of peanut butter, 
using five tablespoons of lemon juice to one tablespoon of pea- 
nut butter. Mix dressing through the apples and celery and 
season with salt and cayenne pepper. Chill the salad and serve 
on lettuce and garnish with peanuts. 

RED APPLE SALAD. 

Make apple cups of bright red apples and put them into 
water containing a little lemon juice until time to fill them. Mix 
some of the apple pulp with celery, grapefruit carpels and may- 
onnaise dressing, and fill the apples. Garnish with red Mara- 
schino cherries that have been drained and stuffed with blanched 
hazel nuts. Serve on lettuce leaves with wafers which have been 
spread with cream cheese mixed with tomato catsup. 

A NEW APPLE SALAD. 

Beat one-half a cup of double cream, a tablespoonful^ of 
lemon juice and one-fourth of a teaspoonful of salt until firm 
throughout. Cook three apples, cored and pared, in a syrup of 
equal measures of sugar and water with two or three cloves and 
an inch of stick cinnamon, and set aside to become thoroughly 
chilled. Chop fine four Maraschino or candied cherries and 
eight or ten pecan nut meats or blanched almonds. Wash three 



48 Two Hundred and Nine Ways of Preparing the Apple. 

small heads of lettuce, remove the outer leaves and cut the stalks 
so that the heads will stand level. Place the lettuce on plates 
with an apple in the center of each. Mix the nuts and cherries 
through the cream and pour it over the apples. 

APPLE, ORANGE AND PEACH SALAD. 

Equal parts of apples, peaches and oranges are cut into 
cubes and mixed with cream dressing. Serve in apples shells 
or in the rind of the oranges. 

APPLE AND NUT SALAD.— L 

Mix one pint of celery and one pint of apples cut into small 
match-like pieces with one-half pint of English walnut meats 
broken into small pieces. Dress with boiled salad dressing and 
serve in apple cups or on lettuce leaves. 

APPLE AND NUT SALAD.— IL 

Prepare one cup of English walnut meats. Quarter, core 
and pare two large, sour apples. Cut apples into small pieces 
and mix with the nut meats. Mix with dressing and serve on 
lettuce leaves, and garnish with dressing. 

SALAD DRESSING MADE WITH BUTTER. 

Cream two tablespoons of butter. To the beaten 3/olks of 
two eggs add one tablespoon of cold water, three tablespoons 
of tarragon vinegar, one-quarter of a teaspoon of salt, a dash of 
cayenne and one-eighth of a teaspoon of mustard. Beat well 
and cook in a double boiler until very thick. Remove from the 
fire and stir in the creamed butter. When very cold, add two- 
thirds of a cup of whipped cream. 

APPLE CHICKEN SALAD. 

Take six ripe apples and scoop out the centers. Fill them 
with cold cooked chicken, minced fine, seasoned with finely 
minced green peppers and salt, with enough cream to moisten. 
Place apples in a steamer and cook until almost tender. Put 
them on ice and serve with mayonnaise on lettuce. 

CREAM SALAD DRESSING. 

Cook one-third cup of cream, two slightly beaten yolks of 
egg, two tablespoons of sugar and two tablespoons of lemon juice 
in a double boiler until as thick as soft custard. Add a pinch of 
salt and strain. 



\ 



Two Hundred and Nine Ways of Preparing the Apple. 49 

APPLE AND DATE SALAD. 

Cut pared apples into tiny strips. Cut dates into similar 
pieces, using about one-fourth as much date as apple. To each 
pint of material add two tablespoonfuls of olive oil and turn the 
mixture over again. Let stand closely covered for half an hour. 
Turn into a bowl lined with lettuce leaves. Serve with bread 
and butter at luncheon or supper. 

BAKED APPLE SALAD. 

Bake Northern Spy apples until thoroughly done; remove 
the skin. Stuff the centers with nuts and serve with salad dress- 
ing and whipped cream. 

APPLE SALAD. 

Chop one-half pound of cold veal or lean pork and two large, 
tart apples; add two chopped pickles, one tablespoon of olive 
oil, one tablespoon of vinegar, season with salt and pepper and 
mix with mayonnaise dressing. 

APPLE AND BANANA SALAD. 

Slice bananas and roll in lemon juice and sugar; mix with 
an equal amount of sliced apples. Serve with boiled dressing or 
with mayonnaise dressing. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 

Mix one-half teaspoon of mustard, one-half teaspoon of salt, 
one-half teaspoon of powdered sugar, a few grains of cayenne; 
add the unbeaten yolks of two eggs and stir until the mixture is 
smooth. Add, drop by drop, one-half cup of olive oil, beating 
constantly with a wooden spoon or a Dover egg beater; add 
gradually, and alternating with another half cup of oil, two table- 
spoons of lemon juice. Half vinegar and half lemon juice or 
all of either acid may be used. If the oil is added too rapidly 
ta first the dressing will curdle. The smooth consistency may 
be restored by adding the curdled mixture, slowly, to the yolk 
of an egg. When finished it should be smooth, glossy and stiff 
enough to hold its shape. When ready for use, thin with plain 
or whipped cream or the beaten white of an egg. All ingredients 
should be kept perfectly cold, and because the dressing soon 
liquidates, it should be added just before serving the salad. 

APPLE AND CABBAGE SALAD. 

Shave cabbage fine and soak for one hour in celery water, 
made by adding one teaspoon of celery salt to each quart of 



50 Two Hundred and Nine Ways of Preparing the Apple. 

water. Drain and dry on a soft towel. Add an equal amount 
of apple cut into match-like pieces; mix with boiled dressing. 

BOILED SALAD DRESSING. 

Scald one cup of milk in a double boiler. Blend three table- 
spoons of flour, one teaspoon of mustard, two teaspoons of salt, 
one teaspoon of sugar and a dash of cayenne ; add to the slightly 
beaten yolks of two eggs. Pour the hot milk slowly over the 
egg mixture, stirring constantly. Return to the double boiler 
and cook until it thickens; add, slowly, one-half cup of vinegar 
and one tablespoon of butter. Whip in a little at a time the 
well beaten whites of the eggs. Strain into glasses or glass jars. 
This dressing will keep for several weeks if in a cool place. 

APPLE AND CELERY SALAD. 

Pare, core and cut into three-eighths of an inch cubes mellow 
apples; mix with half the amount of celery cut into one-fourth 
inch slices ; add a little salt and put into a salad bowl. Mix with 
mayonnaise dressing and serve on lettuce leaves or garnish with 
celery tops. 

APPLE AND CELERY SALAD. 

Polish red or green apples of uniform size, cut a thick slice 
from the stem end of each and scoop out the pulp with a potato- 
ball scoop. Cut the pulp into small, match-like pieces and mix 
with an equal amount of celery cut into small pieces. Moisten 
with mayonnaise dressing and fill apple shells, replace tops and 
arrange on lettuce leaves. 



APPLE AND CHEESE SALAD. 

Mix chopped pecans with twice their bulk of cream cheese, 
adding a little thick cream to blend the mixture. Season with 
pepper and salt and make into tiny balls. Pare mellow, tart 
apples, core and slice across the center into rings about one-half 
inch thick. Arrange rings on lettuce leaves and place several 
cheese balls in the center. Serve cream salad dressing. 



CIDER APPLE SAUCE. 

Reduce four quarts of new cider to two by boiling; add 
enough pared, cored and quartered apples to fill the kettle. Let 
cook slowly for four hours. This is very nice when served with 
roast pork. 



I 



Two Hundred and Nine Ways of Preparing the Apple. 51 

DRIED APPLE SAUCE. 

Wash apples thoroughly and soak for fifteen minutes in 
warm water; drain, cover with water and let boil slowly for four 
hours; mash, add cinnamon and sugar to taste. Add the sugar 
just before removing from the stove or the apples will be tough- 
ened and darkened. 

FROZEN APPLE SAUCE. 

Wipe, pare, core and cut ten apples into quarters. Cook 
with a few grains of salt, one-half cup of sugar and two cups of 
water. Rub through a sieve, add two-thirds of a cup of cider 
and two tablespoons of lemon juice. Freeze to a mush and serve 
in cups made of bright red apples. 

GERMAN APPLE SAUCE. 

Pour a good apple sauce into a flat serving dish. Sprinkle 
thickly with chopped almonds and cinnamon. Serve with cream. 

NEW ENGLAND APPLE SAUCE. 

Pare, core and quarter twelve tart apples of medium size. 
Put into an earthen jar or deep casserole; add one and one-half 
cups of sugar and one cup of water. Cover and bake slowly in 
a moderate oven until a deep red, from two to three hours. 

SPICED APPLE SAUCE. 

Wipe, quarter, pare and core eight sour apples. Put in a 
sauce pan, sprinkle with sugar; add eight cloves and enough 
water to prevent apples from burning. Cook to a mush, stirring 
occasionally. 

APPLE SAUCE.— I. 

Cut into eighths and core unpared King or Baldwin apples; 
cook quickly in thin syrup. The skins give it a pretty pink color. 

APPLE SAUCE.— II. 

Wipe, quarter, pare and core eight sour apples. Make a 
syrup by boiling seven minutes one cup of sugar and one cup of 
water with thing shaving from rind of a lemon. Remove rind 
and add enough apples to cover bottom of sauce pan and remove 
as soon as soft. Continue until all are cooked. Strain remaining 
syrup over apples. 



52 Two Hundred and Nine Ways of Preparing the Apple. 

APPLE SAUCE.— III. 

To every two cups of apple sauce all one tablespoon or 
freshly grated horseradish which has been soaked in mild vine- 
gar and then squeezed dry. This should be served with roast 
pork. 

APPLE SAUCE FOR ROAST PORK. 

Wipe, pare, core ard quarter eight apples. Cook with one 
cup of sweet cider, one-half cup of maple syrup, two slices of 
lemon, one-fourth teaspoon of salt, one tablespoon of butter and 
a few grains of nutmeg. Cook until the apples are soft and rub 
through a sieve. Make apple cups by taking a thick slice from 
the stem end of bright red apples; scoop all of the pulp out with 
a teaspoon. Fill the cups with the apple sauce, adjust the covers 
and serve with roast pork. 



INDEX 



Page 

Apple, Aftei'thought 8 

Almond, Praulinee, Jelly 

and Cream 8 

Apricot Sherbet Served in 

Apple Shells 8 

Balls with a Mixture of 

Fruit 8 

Balls Served in Syrup 8 

In Bloom 9 

Brown Betty I 9 

Brown Betty II 9 

Brown Betty III 9 

Butter Canapes 10 

Butter 10 

Butter, Dried Apple 10 

Biscuit 10 

Casserole 10 

Catchup 10 

Charlotte I 1 

Charlotte II 1 

Charlotte, Plain 1 

Clarified 1 

Cobbler 1 

Coddled 12 

Conserve 12 

Compote 12 

Compote and Orange Mar- 
malade 12 

Crab Apple Marmalade 12 

Custards 13 

Cup Custard 13 

Croquettes 13 

Delmonico Apples 14 

Delight 14 

East India Chutney 14 

Farci 14 

Float I 14 

Float II 15 

Fried with Onions 15 

Fried I 15 

Fried II 15 

Fritters I 15 

Fritters II 15 

Fritters III 16 

Fritters IV 16 

Fritters, English Style 16 

Frosted 16 

Gelatin 17 

Ginger I 17 



Page 
Ginger II i? 

Garnish for Roast Goose__ 17 

German, Cup 17 

Goodie 18 

Glazed, with Preserved 

Ginger 18 

Glazed, with Spiced Prunes 18 

Green Apple Honey 18 

Icing 18 

Jam 19 

Jonathan 19 

Jellied 19 

Jellied, with Almonds 19 

Lexington Style 20 

Loaf 20 

Apples in Maple Syrup 20 

Macedoine 20 

Marmalade 20 

Meringue 21 

Nut Stuffing and Whipped 

Cream 21 

Omelet I 21 

Omelet II 21 

Oxford — -- 21 

Oatmeal, with : 22 

Parisienne, a la 22 

Pan Dowdy 22 

Pralines 22 

Pone 22 

Porcupine 22 

Punch 23 

Rice with Meringue 23 

Raised Biscuit 23 

Rice and Apples 24 

Apples in Rice Cups 24 

Relish ■ 24 

Schmarren 24 

Sherbet 24 

Sherbet, Crab Apple 24 

Spiced Crab Apples 25 

Sausages and Fried Apples 25 
Stuffed to Serve with Roast 25 

Spiced, with Meringue 25 

Surprise, en 26 

Sponge ^^6 

Stuffed, with Figs 26 

Sweet Cider Frappe 26 

Souflle 26 

Slump 27 



F£B 1 1913 



Index— (Continued) 



Page 

Stephan 27 

Stuffed 27 

Tart 27 

Tarts I 27 

Tarts II 28 

Tartlets 28 

Tarts, Prune and Apple 28 

Taffy 28 

Tapioca 29 

Turnover I 29 

Turnover II 29 

Virginia Toddy __ ^9 

Water 30 

Whip 30 

Baked Apples I 30 

Apples II 30 

Apples III 30 

Apples in Strawberry Jam- 31 

Apples, Creole Style 31 

Apples, Sliced, Baked in 

Cream 31 

Apples with Oatmeal 31 

Apples, Panned 31 

Sweet Apples 31 

Cake, Apple Sauce I 31 

Apple Sauce II 32 

Danish Apple 32 

Duich Apple 32 

Dried Apple Fruit 32 

Dried Apple I 33 

Dried Apple II 33 

German Apple 33 

Dried, to Dry 33 

Roly Poly 33 

Dumplings, Apple 34 

Baked Apple 34 

Boiled Apple 34 

Individual Apple 34 

Steamed Apple 34 

Jelly, Apple 35 

Apple and Barberry 35 

Apple Mint 35 

Crab Apple 36 

Evaporated Apple 36 

Mountain Ash and Apple — 36 

Rhubarb and Apple 36 

Spiced Apple 36 

Preserves, Apple I 37 

Apple II 37 

Apple III 37 

Apple and Quince 37 

Apple Chips 37 

Hyslop Crab Apples 38 

Preserved Apples 38 

Preserved Apples (whole)- 38 

Pudding, Apple I 38 

Apple II 38 

Apple III 39 

Apple and Brown Bread 39 

Apple Christmas 39 



Page 

Apple Cornmeal 39 

Apple Custard 40 

Apple Sauce 40 

Apple and Marmalade 40 

Bread and Butter Apple 40 

Bird's Nest 40 

Indian Pudding with Apples 41 

Pan 41 

Rice Apple 41 

Roly Poly and Apple 42 

Royal Apple 42 

Steamed Apple I 42 

Steamed Apple II 43 

Sago Apple 43 

Pies, Pastry 44 

Plain Pastry 45 

Meringue 45 

Apple I 45 

Apple II 45 

Apple III 45 

Apple Custard 46 

Apple and Cocoanut 46 

Apple and Pineapple 46 

Apple Decorated with 

Cream and Cheese 46 

Date and Apple 47 

Dried Apple 47 

Dried Apple Custard 47 

English Apple 43 

Fairy Apple 44 

Fresh Apple Custard 44 

Kentucky 44 

Pot Apple 44 

Shaker Apple 43 

Washington Apple 43 

Sauce, Apple I 51 

Apple II 51 

Apple III 52 

Apple Sauce for Roast Pork 52 

Cider Apple 50 

Dried Apple 51 

Frozen Apple 51 

German Apple 51 

New England Apple 51 

Spiced Apple 51 

Salad, Apple 49 

Apple and Banana 49 

Apple and Cabbage 49 

Apple and Celery I 50 

Apple and Celery II 50 

Apple and Cheese 50 

Apple Chicken 48 

Apple and Date 49 

Apple, Baked 49 

Apple, Orange and Peach— 48 

Apple and Nut I 48 

Apple and Nut II 48 

Apple and Peanut 47 

Apple Salad. Red 47 

A New Apple 47 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




