THE ] IBRARY 



THE UNIVERSITY 



OF CAL [FORNIA 



LOS ANGELES 




THE 



anfc 



dock ffiook 



Compile^ anfc 

b tbc "WHomen 



OF 



Christ Cburcb 




, California 



1913 



DONE IN BROWNE PRINT SHOP 



"\\ e have here a siring of culinary ]>carls gathered 
from homes of personal friends and only the thread 

which binds them is our own." 

Rev. Baker P. Lee 



The aim of this work is to present to the public 
the best recipes of famous cooks, and to offer, in a 
condensed form, some timely suggestions in regard 
to the essentials which should be considered in pre- 
paring and serving a formal dinner or luncheon for 
a limited number of guests. 

The compilers of this little book sincerely hope 
that the recipes and other items of information con- 
tained therein may prove particularly helpful to the 
young housekeeper who. as the hostess of tomor- 
row, may wish to entertain her friends in a gracious, 
hospitable and up-to-date manner. 

To the many friends who have kindly contribu- 
ted to this work our thanks are due. We are also 
indebted to the following well-known authorities on 
the subject: "The Boston Cooking School Cook 
Hook." by Fannie Merritt Farmer; ''The Hostess of 
To-Day," by Linda Hall Lamed, and "Social Cus- 
toms," by Florence Howe Hall (1 ( )11). 



Serving Dinner 



"There is an emanation from the heart in gen- 
uine hospitality which cannot be described, but is 
immediately felt and puts the stranger at once at 
his ease." Washington Irving. 

Artistic table appointments are now within the 
reach of all, and our young hostess, after giving 
strict attention to a few very important details in 
the preparation of her table, may add, according to 
her taste and ingenuity, many of the pretty trifles 
for special events which will delight the eye of 
her guests, and give the required touch of senti- 
ment to the occasion. 

The Table 

On a table of any desired shape place either an 
asbestos pad, now in use for- this purpose, or an 
under cloth of white heavy Canton flannel. On 
this lay with great care a spotless, unwrinkled 
cover of linen or satin damask, of sufficient size 
to allow for a fall of at least eighteen inches from 
the sides of the table. 

The Centerpiece 

As artistic simplicity is the fashion of the 
moment, the centerpiece should not be too elab- 
orate. One of fine, washable material, daintily em- 
broidered or trimmed with lace, is most in favor at 
the present time. When a low broad floral design is 
used, the centerpiece is generally omitted, as a 
more tasteful effect is produced when the flower ar- 
rangement conies in direct contact with the sur- 
face of the smooth damask tablecloth. 



6 TRIED AND TRUE 

Decorations 

The floral decoration is a matter of individual 
taste. The hostess must remember, however, that 
all flower pieces should be kept either above or 
below the eye line, so as not to interfere with the 
view of her guests. Smaller bouquets harmoniz- 
ing with the central design are often used on the 
sides or corners of the table with pretty effect, and 
a pleasing act of courtesy is to place a single flower 
at the plate of each guest. "In the decoration of 
the table avoid ostentation and beware of furbe- 
lows." writes Linda Hall Lamed in "The Hostess 
of To-day." "A bowl of glass or silver and vases 
rilled with an artistic arrangement of flowers and 
vines are a sufficient embellishment for the most 
elaborate feast." 

Lighting the Table 

As the shadows thrown from ceiling lights 
would be trying to the eyes and unbecoming to 
the faces of many guests, the thoughtful hostess 
will illumine her table with white wax candles, or 
small lamps with prettily tinted shades. Many 
beautiful and artistic effects are now produced by 
the use of tiny electric bulbs, partly concealed in 
beds of flowers or in the green of the ivy, the 
smilax, or the asparagus fern. If it is necessary 
to supplement the illumination of the table, it is 
done by the use of side lights arranged on the walls 
of the dining room. 

The Covers 

The places or "covers" laid for guests should 
be twenty inches or more apart, and a large plate, 
called the "service" plate, put in the center of 
each cover. 

I* or a dinner served in courses the knives, forks. 
and spoons which will be needed before dessert 



TRIED AND TRUE 7 

should be placed on the table in the following or- 
der: Beginning at the extreme right of the ser- 
vice plate lay the oyster fork or the small fork for 
the canape ; then the spoon for soup, with the in- 
side of the bowl turned up; and next to that, if 
needed, a knife for fish ; and then a larger one for 
the roast. If the silver for dessert is put on the 
table from the beginning, the dessert knife should 
be next the plate; if otherwise, the meat knife is 
the last in order, all having their sharp edges turned 
towards the plate. The forks are also placed in 
the order in which they will be needed before the 
dessert comes. The fish fork is put at the extreme 
left of the service plate, then the entree fork, then 
the large fork for roast, and next to the plate (un- 
less one for dessert is on the table) the one for the 
game or salad, all with their tines turned upward. 
It is now thought in better form to have the silver 
for the dessert, and any extra course, brought from 
the sideboard and quietly laid at each plate. 

Dinner napkins should be large, folded simply, 
square or otherwise, and placed on the service plate, 
unless the first course, a cold one. has been put on 
the table before announcing dinner. In that event 
the napkin is laid at the left of the forks. 

It has long been the custom at dinners to slip a 
roll, breadstick. or small piece of bread in the fold of 
the napkin. At formal affairs the bread is mm 
passed from the sideboard, or serving table; but this 
is an unimportant detail which the hostess may 
decide for herself. 

Olives, celery and other relishes in their artistic 
dishes of decorative china are now placed on the 
serving table, and even the pretty fashion of hav- 
ing the bon bons and sweetmeats on the table 
at formal dinner parties is on the wane and these 



8 TRIED AND TRUE 

delicacies in their receptacles of glass and silver 
are now generally passed from the sideboard. 

The goblet for water should be at the right and 
quite near the center of the plate. If wine is to be 
served the glasses are put on the table in the order 
required by the courses, the last one reaching nearly 
to the space occupied by the goblet. 

Oil, vinegar and mustard are never put on the 
table at formal dinners, but quaint little silver salt 
and pepper holders may find a place on the sides 
and at the corners of the table. Individual salt 
cellars with tiny spoons to use with them are much 
in favor at the present time. 

Butter plates are no longer used at company din- 
ners. If a certain course calls for the use of butter 
it is served on small plates and removed with that 
particular course. 

Serving the Dinner 

Snow-white linen, glittering glass, shining silver, 
softly shaded lights and artistically arranged flowers 
are necessary to the success of a company dinner, 
and these essentials will not be overlooked by the 
careful hostess. 

The preparation of the food and the process of 
serving the same in the easiest and quietest manner 
are matters which must be entrusted largely to other 
hands. But the hostess has the privilege of decid- 
ing which of certain methods, equally good and up- 
to-date, will best suit her own convenience and 
accord with the resources at her command. 

If she decides on the formal plan of serving 
from the pantry, the butler or waitress will be in- 
structed to that effect. The courses, in their order, 
will be carefully arranged on individual plates, then 
placed on a tray and served to the guest at his right, 
with the right hand. There should always be a plate 



TRIED AND TRUE 9 

in front of the guest until the dessert. The service 
plate remains on the table until after the soup or 
bouillon is served when it is removed with that 
course and a plate containing the fish substituted. 
The entree follows the fish, the meat course comes 
next and lastly, the game or, if preferred, the salad 
course. 

Whatever accompanies these courses, wine ex- 
ceptecl. should be placed on a tray and passed at 
the left of the guest. This follows the simple rule 
that whatever the waitress puts upon the table with 
her own hand is placed at the right. Whenever 
the guest is to help himself the tray is passed at 
his left. 

The waitress removes the plates from the right 
with the left hand. If there are two waitresses, or 
two men, the guests should be served in rotation, 
beginning alternately at the right and left of the 
host and hostess ; if otherwise, the lady at the right 
of the host and the guest of honor should be the one 
first served ; then the other ladies in the order in 
which they sit. 

The gentlemen are then helped, the host always 
receiving his plate last. The table, when cleared 
for dessert, should be softly smoothed with a folded 
napkin, using a silver tray or a plate to receive 
the crumbs. The finger bowls, partly filled with 
water may have a daintily scented flower floating 
upon the surface. After the dessert courses which 
include puddings, ice cream, toasted crackers, 
cheese and fruit, the hostess will serve either at 
the table or in the drawing-room, strong black coffee 
and, if desired, a cordial. The coffee is handed 
around in dainty cups on a salver, with cream and 
sugar for those who wish for these accompaniments. 
The cordial, in tiny glasses, is also passed around on 
a silver salver. 



10 TRIED AND TRUE 

Second Method 

"When a somewhat less formal method is pre- 
ferred, the meat is cut in the pantry or kitchen, 
neatly arranged on a large platter which is then 
placed on a folded napkin laid on the flat of the 
hand, taken to the diningroom and passed to the 
guest at his left. With the large knife, fork and 
spoon resting on the platter he helps himself to a 
portion. The meat and every other course should 
be immediately followed by the accompaniments. 
The vegetable is placed on the plate with the meat, 
separate dishes not being considered in good form 
at present. The plate removed with the course 
is taken from the right with the left hand and an 
empty plate substituted with the right hand. A 
salad may be served with the game course, or the 
game omitted and the salad used as a course by 
itself. 

When ice cream is the chosen dainty for des- 
sert, several slices should be cut from the large 
mold and the platter containing them passed to the 
guest (at his left) who. removing the doily and the 
napkin from the dessert plate, places his portion 
thereon. 

Fruit, coffee and cordials are served in the same 
manner as in the formal dinner. 

\\ hen a party is given for more than six or 
eight people and either one of these two methods 
is adopted for serving, an assistant waitress is a 
necessity in order to avoid delay and confusion, and 
to enable the hostess to maintain the peace of mind 
which will insure to her guests the social enjoy- 
ment they have reason to expect. 

Third Method 

A less elaborate but equally hospitable and up- 
to-date dinner may be given" by omitting a few 



TRIED AND TRUE 11 

of the more unimportant courses and placing the 
large course of meat or fowl in front of the host, 
who does the carving. 

The dessert course and often the coifee are 
prepared for serving by the hosress at "the table. 
One competent waitress is all that is necessary, the 
same rule of "right and left" and substitution being 
followed as in the more formal affairs. 

The number of guests should not be too largo. 
( Mrs. Florence Howe Hall, in "Social Customs. " 
quotes from lirillat-Savarin, to the effect that the 
number of people should not be less than the Graces 
nor more than the Muses. 

On entering the dining room the host takes in 
the lady in whose honor the dinner is given the 
others following in the order previously arranged 
for by the hostess, who with the gentleman of honor 
is the last to enter. All stand until the hostess is 
seated. 

Place Cards 

The place card should be in the present fashion 
unless the affair is in honor of an anniversary or a 
special event when other cards are in perfectly good 
taste. Place a card on each napkin. Menu cards 
are never used at private dinners or luncheons. 

Wines 

"Sherry is the proper wine to accompany soup. 
Chables, hock or sauterne goes with the fish course. 
claret and champagne with the roast. If Madeira 
and port are used they should come after the game. 
Sherry and claret or Burgundy are again offered 
with the dessert. For a small dinner it is nuite suf- 
ficient to have two or three wines; in this case, 
sherry with the soup, and claret or champagne with 
the roast, would be the best selection." 



12 



TRIED AND TRUE 




TRIED AND TRUE 13 

DINNER 
Menu 

It is not the quality of meat, but the cheerfulness 
of the guests which makes the feast. 

Clarendon. 

Canape Alexandria 
Cream of Tomato 

Olives Celery Almonds 

Crab Legs Papillote, Alexandria 

Sweetbread, Alexandria 

Sorbet 
Hreast of Chicken, Alexandria, with Jelly 

Salad Alexandria 

Ice Cream a la Mode Small Cakes 

Roquefort Cheese, Alexandria 

Black or Turkish Coffee 



14 TRIED AND TRUE 



IRecipes 



Canape Alexandria 

Take a round piece of toast cut thin, butter when 
hot and spread with caviar, either fresh or salt- 
fresh preferred. Cut out the center of the canape 
the size of a dollar and replace with prepared timbale 
of foie gras in aspic. 

Decorate plate with fine chopped lettuce and 
pimientos cut heart-shaped. 

Cream of Tomato 

" Cut some carrots, onions and celery and braize 
with ham bones in butter: add about a dozen to- 
matoes. Cook thoroughly, pass through a fine sieve, 
and add some cream. Season with salt and pepper 
and thicken with arrow root suiting taste. 

It would be well to serve soup in cups for dinner 
of this sort, with a little whipped cream on top. 

Crab Legs Papillote, Alexandria 
Take a large piece of brown wrapping paper, cut 
same size of plate and fold once. Grease thoroughly 
with Maitre d Hotel butter, and place a slice of 
cooked ham on one side. Add butter, lemon juice. 
paprika, salt, pepper and chives. Then lay the crab 
legs on top. Fold paper making same air tight, put 
in roasting pan and let cook about twelve or fifteen 
minutes until paper gets brown and bag expands. 

Crab legs must be served right away with a little 
drawn butter. 

Sand dabs may be served in a like manner if pre- 
ferred. 

Sweetbread, Alexandria 
Take nice young calf's sweetbreads, cooked, cut 



TRIED AND TRUE 15 

in large pieces ; fry a little in butter and do the same 
with fresh mushrooms. Season same well with pap- 
rika, salt and pepper. Mix sweetbreads and mush- 
rooms together and add a little cream sauce, also 
add a little more butter and plain or whipping cream. 
Cook about fifteen minutes. 

These may be served in ramikins. 

Sorbet 

Is proper to serve between entree and roast, as it 
freshens the palate and removes the flavor of prev- 
ious course. 

Breast of Chicken, Alexandria 

Bone a small uncooked chicken weighing about 
one and one quarter Ibs. Remove the meat of the 
legs, grind same fine, season with salt and pepper, 
add a little cream and sherry wine, mix thoroughly 
and stuff the breast with same. Place a slice of salt 
pork over this and roast in hot oven for about fifteen 
minutes. 

Serve in potato nest with a little jelly. 

Salad Alexandria 

Select two nice, tender, fresh celery sticks, one 
good sized, juicy table apple, and a fresh Hawaiian 
pineapple, cut all Julienne. Take equal parts of 
each and put in ice water, cooling well. 

Take teacup of whipping cream, add one dessert 
spoon of powdered sugar, three English walnuts, 
chopped very fine, one cordial glass of Kirchwasser, 
and mix well. Strain water off sliced fruit so that it 
is perfectly dry. Take prepared whipping cream as 
a dressing and mix thoroughly and carefully to avoid 
crushing the fruit. 

Make basket out of large orange by cutting same 



16 TRIED AND TRUE 

so as to leave handle. Remove orange meat and 
fill shell with the prepared salad. Decorate with 
cherries and serve very cold. Baby ribbon or orange 
blossoms can be tied to handle of basket. 

Ice Cream a la Mode 

Any kind of ice cream, vanilla preferred, can be 
served with strawberries, raspberries or other fruit 
and crushed fruit juice may be used to put over it. 

Roquefort Cheese, Alexandria 

Take equal parts Roquefort and butter, mix some 
chopped chives, paprika, a dessert spoon full of sher- 
ry and a little anchovy butter; mix all thoroughly 
and serve on celery branches cold. 

Sherry or Rhine Wine 

\Yith Canape Alexandria, with Champagne to 
follow. Joseph Reichel. 




TRIED AND TRUE 17 



Serving luncbeon 



You must come home with me and be my guest; 
You will give joy to me, and 1 will do 
All that is in my power to honor you. 

Shelley. 

A party luncheon is less ceremonious than a din- 
ner, therefore quite as enjoyable. It may be a very 
simple "informal" or an extremely elaborate affair. 
l>ut whether few or many, the courses for luncheon 
are always more delicate and fanciful in character 
than are those provided for a substantial dinner. 
In general, however, a formal luncheon party differs 
little from a dinner. The dishes are brought from 
the serving-table and handed around by the servants. 
The silver, glass and china are as bright, dainty 
and beautiful and with few exceptions used for the 
same purpose and in the same way as at a dinner. 
In arranging the "courses" for luncheon the spoons 
are sometimes put in front of the plate. Soup or 
bouillon is usually served in two-handled cups with 
saucers. 

The table, when a suitable one, is left bare and 
handsome doilies with centerpiece to match are 
placed on the surface. The tablecloth, when pre- 
ferred, may be of fine white damask or of exquisite 
drawn work and heavy lace. The napkins, whether 
plain or decorated, should not be too large. 

The flower decorations, while profuse, should be 
simply but artistically arranged. The lights are 
usually omitted at a luncheon. 



18 TRIED AND TRUE 

The lighter wines are often served but many hos- 
tesses now prefer the fruit, wine and tea punches 
which are poured from handsome glass pitchers dur- 
ing the courses. 

In this country finger bowls are used at luncheon 
as they are at dinner. 

If the occasion is a formal one. the coffee and 
cordial are handed around in the drawing-room. 

Upon small cards, either plain or with simple 
decorations, write the names of the guests, and place 
a card on each napkin. At small luncheons these 
cards are not needed. 

The hostess leads the way into the dining-room 
and the guests go in separately, the ladies first and 
the gentlemen following. 




20 



TRIED AND TRUE 




TRIED AND TRUE 21 



LUNCHEON 
Menu 

Not as a stranger shalt thou come; 
Thou shalt find thyself at home. 

\Yhittier. 

Oyster a 1'Ancienne 
]5reast of Chicken, Shredded, Fresh Mushroom 

Small Filet of 15eef, Sauce Colbert 
Fresh Peas Pommes Rissoles 

Salad 

Cheese Crackers 

Biscuit Glaces 

Demi Tasse 



22 TRIED AND TRUE 



IRecipes 



Oyster a 1'Ancienne 

Take some nice large oysters on the half shell, 
five to each person. Cut some bacon very thin and 
three inches in length, place on top of the oysters 
and sprinkle with paprika, and bake in a hot oven 
for five minutes. Serve on a round plate on top of 
a broken napkin, with a piece of lemon and a branch 
of parsley in centre. 

Breast of Chicken, Fresh Mushrooms 

Take the breast of two young boiled hens. Cut 
in Julienne, also cut one pound of fresh mushrooms 
in Julienne; saute the mushrooms in one quarter of 
a pound of butter; add one pint of table cream and 
let come to a boil; put in the chicken and one quart 
of thick cream sauce (Bechamel), one half pound of 
butter, and mix well. Serve on a half toasted En- 
glish muffin and a piece of broiled or fried ham. 

Small Filet of Beef 

Take about five or six pounds of beef tenderloin, 
trim and cut small filet out and fry on a hot fire for 
three or four minutes. Place them on a round piece 
of toast and put over it the following sauce. 

Sauce Colbert 

Put in a saucepan half a pint of very thick Ma- 
deira sauce. Add to it very gradually, quarter of 
a pound of butter, also a tablespoon of meat glace. 
Mix well without boiling; then squeeze in the juice 



TRIED AND TRUE 23 

of half a lemon and add one tablespoon chopped 
parsley when serving. 

Biscuit Glaces 

Put twelve yolks eggs in a copper basin with 
four ounces of powdered sugar, one gill of Maras- 
chino and one of Swiss Kirsh. Then with a pastry 
whip, beat well together for two minutes. Place 
the basin on a hot stove and stir briskly with the 
whip for five minutes. Remove it from the fire and 
immediately put the basin into a vessel .containing 
ice water and stir continually for two minutes more. 
Add a pint and a half of whipped cream, with vanilla 
flavor, and mix well with the rest for three minutes. 
Then cover the basin with a napkin and let repose for 
ten minutes. Have twelve paper cases two inches 
long, two inches wide and one and a half inch high, 
and fill equally with the above preparation. Have 
ready a square biscuit glace box ten inches high by 
six inches square, and having inside loose two tier 
frame; place this box in an ice-cream tub. filling it 
with broken ice mixed with rock salt. 

Wipe the cover neatly and after lifting it up re- 
move the frame and place three biscuits on each 
tier ; return the frame to the box, put the cover on 
and let freeze for one and a half hours. Have a 
cold dessert dish covered with folded napkin; remove 
the box, lift up the frame and dress the biscuit 
nicely on the dish, sending them to the table at once. 

Chas. Rozak, 
Chef, Hotel Leighton. 



24 



TRIED AND TRUE 




CHRIST CHURCH 



TRIED AND TRUE 25 



IReception 



MENU 
Lover's Wedding Cake 

l /> lb. of sweet temper l /> lb of buttered youth 

Y> lb. of "-ood looks 2 tablespoons of gentle 
Y> lb. of self-forgetful- argument 

ness l /z a pint of rippling 
y> lb. of powdered wits laughter 

l /2 an ounce of dry l /2 a wine glass of corn- 
humor mon sense 
4 Ibs. of flour of love 

Put the flour of love, good looks and sweet tem- 
per into a well furnished house. Beat the butter 
of youth to a cream. Mix together blindness of 
faults, self-forgetfulness, dry humor, gentle argu- 
ment and add to above. Pour in gently ripping 
laughter and common sense, work until well mixed, 
then bake gently in the warm oven of the heart for- 
ever. 

Mrs. P>aker P. Lee (Selected). 

Shrimp a la Newburg 
Bread and Butter Squares 

Chicken Mousse Reception Rolls 

Cafe Par fait Angel Food Cake 

Salted Pecans 

Wedding Cake in Boxes 

Demi Tasse 



26 TRIED AND TRUE 

Shrimp a la Newburg 

Cook two pounds Lake Shrimp, remove shells. 
Put in saucepan two ounces of butter and the 
shrimps, let them fry two or three minutes but not 
brown. Then add one-half glass sherry or Madeira 
wine, one cup cream, let boil for two minutes. Have 
ready the yolks of three eggs, half a cup of cream 
(cold), one ounce butter and a little grated nutmeg. 
Mix all together and put the mixture in saucepan 
with the shrimps. Remove from fire before It boils. 
Season to taste. 

Mrs. Post, 

< P,y Chef St. Charles Hotel. Xew Orleans.) 

Bread and Butter Squares 

Remove end slice from bread. Spread end of loaf 
thin with butter which has been creamed. Cut slice 
thin and repeat until you have number of slices re- 
quired. Remove crusts, put together in pairs and 
cut in small squares. Use white bread. 

Mrs. Fisher. 

Chicken Mousse 

1 cup boiled chicken 1 tablespoon of sherry 

chopped and pounded. >4 teaspoon each of salt. 
1 truffle chopped or paprika and a dash of 

1 tablespoon of pate de celery salt. 

foie gras 1 teaspoon of gelatine 
1 cup of hot chicken disolved in a little hot 

stock strained over water 

the beaten yolks of 3 eggs, whites beaten 

two eggs stiff 

1 cup whipped cream 

Cook chicken a minute, add truffle and sherry. 
When cool add the gelatine, cream and eggs. Beat 



TRIED AND TRUE 27 

until nearly set. then turn into a wet mould and 
place on ice for three hours. Serve with lettuce or 
celerv salad or Mayonnaise dressing. 

Mr-. C M. Wood. 



Reception Rolls 

y 2 pint milk Y> yeast cake dissolved 

1 tablespoon sugar in half cup warm 

1 teaspoon salt water 

1 heaping tablespoon butter 

Add butter, sugar and salt to milk (scalded). 
When lukewarm add dissolved yeast cake and 
enough flour to make a soft sponge, beat thoroughly, 
cover and let stand until light ; then add enough 
flour to knead well. Cover again, let rise. Put on 
floured board, knead, pat and roll to one-third inch 
thickness. Form in small biscut. place in rows on 
floured board, cover and let rise fifteen minutes. 
\Vith small rolling-pin roll through centre of each 
biscuit, brush edge of lower halves with melted but- 
ter, fold and press lightly ; place in buttered pan, 
cover, let rise and bake in hot oven. 

Anna Y. Ray. 

Cafe Parfait 

1 cup clear black coffee 2 cups heavy whipping 
Y cup sugar cream 

Whites of two eggs 

Roil coffee and sugar until it is a thick syrup. 
Pour over the whites of eggs that have been beaten 
quite stiff. Beat mixture until cold. Mix wtih 
cream after it has been whipped very stiff. Put in 
mold and pack in ice and salt for three hours. Serve 
in tall glasses with whipped cream and Maraschino 
cherry on top. 

Mrs. Win. S. Crane. 



28 TRIED AND TRUE 

Angel Food Cake 

\ l / 2 cups granulated 1 cup whites of eggs 

sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla and 

1 cup sifted Swansdown lemon or almond flav- 
flour oring 

1 level teaspoon cream of tartar 

Beat whites with wire beater until they begin to 
thicken. Add cream of tartar and beat until dry. 
Add half of sugar at a time; after sugar add flavor- 
ing and fold in flour. Bake forty-five minutes in 
Angel Food pan (ungreased) in slow oven. Invert 
pan and do not remove until cold. 

Mrs. A. A. Burnand. 

Salted Pecans 

To one pound nuts take one half cup olive oil. 
t'sc skillet on top of stove. When oil is hot add 
nuts; cook until slightly crisp, stirring constantly. 
Remove nuts to brown paper; sprinkle with salt. 
Mrs. John F. Andrews. Jr. 

Wedding Cake 

1 Ib. butter 3 Ibs. raisin seeded and 
1 Ib. brown sugar cut in pieces 

12 eggs \ l / 2 Ibs. citron, thinly 
1 cup molasses sliced and cut in 

1 Ib. flour strips 

4 teaspoons cinnamon 1 Ib. currants 

4 teaspoons allspice 1 cup brandy 

\ l /2 teaspoons mace 4 squares chocolate, 
1 nutmeg grated melted 

% teaspoon soda 1 tablespoon hot water 
2 Ibs. Sultana raisins 

Cream the butter, add sugar gradually, and beat 
thoroughly. Separate yolks from whites of eggs 
and beat yolks until thick and lemon colored. Add 



TRIED AND TRUE 29 



OUR TABLE FAVORS AND PLACE CARDS 

WILL HELP YOU IN MAKING AN 

ATTRACTIVE TABLE FOR 

LUNCHEONS OR DINNERS 

Place Cards and Menu Cards for aH Occasions 
Made to Order 



STATIONERS ENGRAVERS ART DEALERS 

526 South Broadway 

Los Angeles 



to first mixture, then add flour (excepting one-third 
cup, which should be reserved to dredge fruit) mixed 
and sifted with spices, fruit dredged with flour, 
brandy, chocolate and whites of eggs beaten until 
stiff and dry. Just before putting into buttered 
bread pans, add soda dissolved in hot water. Cover 
pans with buttered paper and steam four hours. 
Finish cooking by leaving in a warm oven night. 
Cover with ornamental frosting". 

Fannie Merritt Farmer. 
"Catering for Special Occasions." 



30 TRIED AND TRUE 



Soups 



"This bouillabaisse a noble dish is, 
A sort of soup or broth or brew. 
Or hotchpotch of all sorts of fishes. 
That Greenwich never could outdo. 

Thackeray. 

- 

Soup Stock 

Soup for everyday family use is best made from 
a large shank of beef, a veal shank and some pieces 
of mutton. Put to cook in eight quarts of water. 
Simmer all day ; it will boil down to four quarts. 
Skim well for the first thirty minutes; no seasoning. 
If wanted clear, add white of one egg beaten with 
half a cup of cold water before straining. Use either 
for soup or gravies. 

Anna V. Ray. 

Marrow Dumplings 

3 teaspoons bread 1 beaten egg 

crumbs Nutmeg 

1 teaspoon marrow Flour enough to form 

1 teaspoon salt into balls 

Put balls into soup and boil until done. 

Miss Apel. 

Cream Potato Soup 

1 quart milk Salt and pepper to taste 

1 stalk celery 4 medium sized potatoes 

1 tablespoon butter 

Place the milk in a double boiler, cut the celery 
fine and boil in the milk until tender. Boil the pota- 



TRIED AND TRUE 31 

toes one-half hour, then rub through a colander, 
pour the milk and celery through the same, reheat 
to boiling point. Add salt, pepper and butter. 

-Mrs. Luke D. Phillips. 

Tomato Bisque 

1 quart tomatoes, or j/> small teaspoon soda 

quart can cracker crumbs 

1 heaping tablespoon 1 quart milk 

butter y cup finely rolled 

Pepper and salt to taste 

, Prepare the tomatoes in the ordinary way for 
cooking. To one quart of tomatoes add one quart 
water, cook thoroughly for one hour at least, add 
more water if necessary, so that when tender there 
may remain the original quart of tomatoes. Re- 
move from fire and add the soda stirring well, and 
strain through a revolving flour seive ; add the 
pepper and salt. Return the tomato to the stove 
to heat, adding the butter. Use a little of the milk 
to moisten the cracker crumbs. Bring the remain- 
der of the milk to the boiling point in another ves- 
sel ; when both are at boiling point pour the milk 
into the tomato, add the moistened cracker crumbs, 
stirring well to incorporate thoroughly. When the 
whole is at the boiling point remove from fire, and 
serve with crackers. 

Mrs. Rebecca Thompson. 

French Gumbo Soup 

1 chicken 1 dessert spoon flour 

2 teaspoons chopped 5 quarts cold water 

onion 1 quart okra 

1 dessert spoon lard 

Choose a large, fat, old chicken ; after being 
drawn, and salted two hours (or better all night on 
ice), cut in small pieces, wash and drain in colander. 
Into your kettle put the lard and in it brown flour 



32 TRIED AND TRUE 

lightly. Put in chopped onion and chicken and stir 
continually until brown, then add water and boil 
gently five hours. Three quarters of an hour before 
serving add okra, cut in small pieces, and salt, 
black and cayenne pepper to taste. 

Mrs. Jennie Pratt Layton. 

Sago Soup 

1/2 cup of sago A small piece of stick 

Rind of one lemon cinnamon 

l / 4 teaspoon salt 1 tumbler claret 

1 tablespoon sugar 



Put sago in one quart of boiling water, adding 
lemon rind, salt, cinnamon. Boil twenty minutes, 
adding the sugar and claret, when entirely dissolved. 
Sugar and claret may be added according to taste. 

Miss Apel. 

Oyster Soup 

1 quart milk l / 2 cup powdered 

1 quart oysters crackers 

1 head celery 1 teaspoon Worcester- 

A speck of cayenne shire sauce 

1 small onion Salt and pepper to taste 

Chop onion and celery fine ; put on to boil with 
milk for twenty minutes. Then strain and add the 
butter, crackers, oyster liquor (which has been 
boiled and skimmed) and finally the seasoning and 
oysters. Cook three minutes longer and serve. 

Mrs. E. P>. Marvin. 

Clam Chowder 

Take seven pounds of clams ; wash and scrub 
the shells with a brush. When perfectly clean, put 
into saucepan with one quart of water. You can 
regulate the quantity of water, making it taste more 
or less of the clam juice. Boil until the shells open. 



TRIED AND TRUE 33 

pour off liquid through a cloth, put over colander 
into a clean saucepan. Add one small onion, three 
or four potatoes, more if you like them ; rolled crack- 
ers to make the desired thickness, salt, a large lump 
of butter, half pint cream, and Worcestershire 
sauce to taste. (Delicious.) 

Mrs. TTewson. 

Boston Clam Chowder 

Place two do/en little neck clams in small amount 
of water, boil until shells open: then remove clams 
from shells, chop fine and cover clams with water. 
Take four slices of salt porK one-third inch thick, 
and four medium-sized onions ; chop together and 
fry until brown. Then add one quart of water and 
at boiling point add four potatoes good size cut 
into dice. When potatoes are tender, add clams and 
one pint of milk and clam juice; season with salt 
and pepper to taste, boil five minutes and serve hot. 

Dr. Parlow Willard. 
Boston, Mass. 

Fish Chowder 

1 large onion 1 quart milk 

3 large white potatoes 1 pint water 

6 soda crackers 4 or 5 medium-sized 

Salt and pepper mullet, two Ibs. 

One hour before serving time fry in butter the 
onion, using the kettle in which the chowder is to 
be made. When brown add one pint boiling water. 
Cut the potatoes into small pieces, and add. In 
about fifteen minutes put in the fish cut into small 
pieces. (If mullet cannot be obtained, barracuda 
will answer, t\\o Ibs.) iioil fifteen minutes. Have 
the soda crackers soaked in the milk. When fish is 
cooked, add crackers and milk. Let come again 
to boil, season with salt and pepper and serve. 

Louise Howard. 



34 TRIED AND TRUE 

Clam Chowder 

1 can genuine Eastern 4 good-sized potatoes 
clams 3 medium-sized onions 

(Underwood's little Butter size of an egg or 
neck) bacon drippings 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

Slice onions or chop them fine and brown in 
butter or drippings. Add potatoes sliced thin, and 
to a depth of about three inches add juice of clams 
and cook thirty minutes. The chowder should 
now be like a thick soup. If not. cook a little 
longer. Then add salt, pepper, clams and two or 
three broken crackers. (Serves about six people). 

Miss Jessie L. Coulter. 

Cream of Corn Soup 

To one can of grated corn add one pint boiling 
water and let simmer twenty minutes. Rub through 
sieve. Scald one pint of milk with a slice of onion. 
sprig of parsley and a stalk of celery. Strain and add 
to corn pulp. Thicken soup with two tablespoons 
flour mixed with two tablespoons butter. Season 
with salt and white pepper. Serve with garnish of 
whipped cream and few kernels of popped corn. 

Mrs. Frances Rosecrans. 

Gumbo Filet 

Melt one tablespoon of lard in an iron kettle, 
add one or two finely minced onions and fry until 
a light brown. Add one tablespoon of flour, one 
cup of soup stock, salt, pepper and the meat of a 
young chicken cut in small pieces previously 
browned in butter. Add one pint boiling water 
cover and cook slowly for two hours. Then add 
one tablespoon minced parsley, one tablespoon 
minced celery, one teaspoon powdered sassafras 
and two cups of boiled rice. Serve very hot. It 
mav be made from cold chicken "left over" or 
meat or shell fish instead. 

Mrs. \Y. \Y. Atkinson. 



TRIED AND TRUE 35 



jfisb 



"This dish of meat is too good for any hut angels 
or very honest men." 

Izaak Walton. 

To Boil Fish 

Place fish in enough hoiling water to cover, to 
which is added salt and lemon juice or vinegar. 
Salt gives flavor; lemon juice or vinegar keeps the 
flesh white. Pieces cut from large fish for boiling 
should he cleaned and tied in a piece of cheesecloth 
to prevent scum being deposited on the fish. Time 
required for boiling depends on thickness of fish 
or pieces twenty minutes or longer. 

To Fry Fish 

Clean and wipe dry as possible. Season with 
salt and pepper, dip in flour or crumbs, eggs and 
crumbs, and fry in deep fat. 

To Saute Fish 

Prepare as for frying, using only small amount 
of fat. 

Anna V. Ray. 

Panned Oysters 

\\ ash one pint large oysters. Cut thin slices of 
bread into oblong pieces and toast nicely on both 
sides. Place them in a dripping pan and lay an 
oyster on each piece. Sprinkle with salt and pepper 
and place in hot oven until the ovsters are plum]) 
and the edges slightly curled. Remove to a hot 
platter and serve. 

Mrs. Arthur L. Wright. 



36 TRIED AND TRUE 

Pigs in a Blanket 

Use large plump oysters. Wrap each in a 
slice of thin fat bacon and fasten with a small wood- 
en toothpick. P>ake in a hot oven until plump and 
serve at once. 

Mrs. Fisher. 

Salmon Turbot 

Boil fresh salmon in salted water twenty or 
thirty minutes : drain, remove the bones and pick 
in small pieces. Make about the same amount of 
rich cream gravy as there is fish : pour over the fish 
and blend, place in a baking dish, sprinkle with 
bread crumbs on top. dot with bits of butter, 
moisten with a very little milk, and bake in a hot 
oven until brown. 

Mrs. Fisher. 

Delicate Way of Serving Salmon 
Open the can carefully so as not to cut the fish. 
Turn contents into a colander, set in a pan under the 
cold water faucet. Let the water run slow r ly so as 
not to separate the fish. When washed, so there 
is no oil in the pan. drain, place on a platter lined 
with lettuce leaves, separate with fork, cover with 
slices of hard boiled eggs placed on thin slices of 
lemon ; garnish with parsley. 

Mrs. May F. Curtis. 

Planked Shad or Whitefish 

Clean and split a three pound shad. Put skin 
side down on an oak plank one inch thick, a little 
longer and wider than the fish, sprinkle with salt 
and pepper, and brush over with melted butter. 
P.ake twenty-five minutes in hot oven. Remove 
from oven, spread with butter and garnish with 
parsley and lemon. The fish should be sent to the 
table on plank. 

Mrs. Fisher. 



TRIED AND TRUE 37 

Court Bouillon 

(Salmon or Sea Trout.) 

Clean and wash a three or four pound fish, cut 
off head and fins but leave the tail. Place it in a 
fish pan with a removable grate under it so as not to 
break the fish when removed from kettle. Add one 
carrot sliced, one small onion sliced, one bay leaf, a 
pinch of thyme, salt, pepper and enough cold water 
to cover the fish well. Let heat and as it boils place 
fish pan over a very low flame and let it simmer 
for about one hour without boiling. Serve on a 
long dish with a border of potatoes and a sauce 
made as follows. 

Sauce 

Melt in the same pan three tablespoons of butter 
and one large tablespoon of flour, stir until smooth 
then add the juice of one lemon, one cup of water, 
salt and pepper, stir until smooth then add yolks 
of one or two eggs well beaten. Remove from fire 
and add about two tablespoons of butter a very 
small piece at a time, stirring constantly. One table- 
six ton of capers may be added. (Optional.) 

Mrs. W. W. Atkinson. 



38 TRIED AND TRUE 



Entrees 



''Some hae meat and canna eat, 
And some wad eat that want it ; 
But we hae meat, and we can eat ; 
Sae let the Lord be thankit." 

Robert Burns. 

Brain and Spinach Entree 

One set of brains soaked in salt water, four 
slives of bread soaked in writer, one medium-sized 
onion sliced and fried a light brown. Fry brains 
with onion until cooked thoroughly. Three bunches 
of spinach. Pour boiling water over spinach until 
it is wilted, then chop fine. Four eggs beaten sep- 
arately, salt and pepper to taste. Squeeze water 
from bread, add one-quarter pound of butter. Cream 
butter and eggs and bread together. Then stir all 
ingredients together until creamy, add whites of 
eggs. Butter the boiler well and boil for two 
hours. Use any cream sauce. 

-Mrs. C. M. Wood. 

Cheese Souffle 

1 tablespoon butter 1 cup cheese (grated) 

1 cup cream or milk 4 eggs (five if small) 

1 tablespoon flour 

Melt butter, stir in flour until smooth. Add 
milk, and when mixture begins to thicken add 
cheese, then well beaten yolks. Fold in whites 
beaten stiff. Cover and cook fifteen minutes or un- 
til set. Cook in chafing dish. 

Mrs. Jefferson Davis Gibbs. 



TRIED AND TRUE 39 

Cheese Fondue 

Soak a cup of dry bread crumbs in a pint of 
milk, add two eggs, a pinch of soda, one teaspoon 
of salt, half pound of cheese grated. Add one-half 
cup rlour and one heaping teaspoon baking powder, 
a dash of paprika if you like. Bake in a quick oven 
and serve at once as it soon falls. 

-Mrs. Luke D. Phillips. 

Cheese Souffle 

l /2 lb. cheese 2 tablespoons butter 

4 eggs Mustard, salt and 

1 cup milk cayenne to taste 

2 tablespoons flour 

Make a white sauce with milk, butter, rlour, salt, 
mustard and cayenne. Add beaten yolks, cheese 
cut fine and then the beaten whites. Cook over 
boiling water thirty minutes and put in oven to 
brown. Serve at once. 

Mrs. Post. 

Codfish Souffle 

2 cups mashed potatoes 2 eggs 

1 cup codfish Small piece of butter 

1/2 cup cream or milk- 
Pick codfish very fine. Put lots of cold water 
on and heat slowly but do not boil, then drain dry. 
Stir the codfish and potato together. Add cream. 
beaten yolks of eggs, small piece of butter. Beat 
all thoroughly. Then add the whites of eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth. Pour into a greased baking 
pan. Bake about twenty minutes. Serve hot with 
cream sauce. 

Mrs. Win. S. Crane. 

Kentucky Welsh Rarebit 

Fill a chafing dish half full of beer and when it 
has come to a boil stir in slowly fa small quantity 
at a time) one and a half or two pounds of grated 



40 TRIED AND TRUE 

cheese. When the cheese has thoroughly melted. 
stir in slowly the well beaten yolks of two eggs. 
add a tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce, mix well. 
then fold in the whites of two eggs beaten to a stiff 
froth and sprinkle with red pepper to taste. 

This mixture will not curdle and should be eaten 
immediately while hot and soft, poured over Cupid 
Chips. 

Mrs. Baker P. Lee. 

Boudins a la Reine 

1 pint cold cooked ]/ 2 cup stock or boiling 

chicken water 

2 tablespoons bread Two eggs 

crumbs 1 tablespoon chopped 

Salt and pepper to taste parsley 

1 tablespoon butter 

Put butter in frying pan to melt, add to it the 
bread crumbs and stock. Stir until it boils. Take 
from fire and add the chicken, chopped fine, pars- 
ley, salt and pepper, and the eggs slightly beaten. 
Mix thoroughly. Fill custard cups two-thirds full 
with the mixture, then stand in a baking pan partly 
filled with boiling water. P>ake in moderate oven 
twenty minutes. When done, turn them carefully 
on a heated dish and serve with Bechamel Sauce. 
Cold roast turkey or beef can also be used. 

Bechamel Sauce 

1 tablespoon butter 1 gill cream 

1 gill stock Yolk of one egg 

2 dashes pepper : 4 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon flour 

Melt butter without browning, then add flour. 
Mix until smooth, add stock and cream. Stir con- 
tinually until it boils. Take from the fire, add salt, 
pepper and yolk of the egg well beaten. 

' Mrs. Wm. S. Crane. 



TRIED AND TRUE 41 

Chicken Curry 

Boil a medium sized fowl (which has been cut 
in pieces) until tender, then remove the bones and 
skin. There should be about three pints of water 
when done. Chop one small onior add one ounce 
chopped ham, put into a saucepan with an ounce 
of butter and brown them : then add one teaspoonful 
celery salt, one clove, juice of one-half lemon, one 
black pepper cut fine and a small leek bulb cut 
fine. Stir well for three minutes adding a teaspoon- 
ful of salt, and finally stir in a tablespoonful of 
Crosse & Blackwell's curry powder. Take a cupful 
of the stock from the hot chicken and thoroughly 
stir into the curry mixture ; then pour this into the 
kettle with the chicken and let it cook slowly fifteen 
minutes before serving. Serve with hot rice cooked 
and drained till flaky. 

Airs. Estelle R. Godshall. 

Hawaiian Curry 

(Serves eight) 

1 large cocoanut l/-inch ginger root 

2 tablespoons curry grated 

powder 1 tablespoon corn starch 

1 tablespoon butter Milk of cocoanut 

Salt and cayenne pepper Small clove garlic or 
1 quart milk one small onion 

Cut in double boiler milk, garlic or onion, ginger, 
curry powder and cocoanut peeled and grated. Boil 
one hour. Strain through potato ricer, pressing 
hard to secure all liquid. Return liquid to double 
boiler. Add the butter, salt and cayenne and cocoa- 
nut milk, in which you rub the cornstarch smooth. 
Cook five minutes. Have ready either hot diced 
chicken or lobster about one and one-half pints; 
add to sauce. Make wreath on deep platter of hot 
boiled rice and fill center with curry and serve very 
hot. 

Louise Howard. 



42 TRIED AND TRUE 

Chicken Mayonnaise 

Cut cold boiled fowl in cubes, marinate with 
French dressing, let stand one hour. Add one-half 
quantity of celery scraped and cut in small pieces, 
one-quarter quantity of English walnut meats 
browned in oven with a bit of butter sprinkled with 
salt and broken in small pieces. 

Mix ingredients moistened with Mayonnaise 
dressing and pile in center of ring of Cucumber Jelly. 

Cucumber Jelly 

Take two cups of chicken stock, add one slice 
of onion, one sprig parsley, two cucumbers pared 
and grated. Cover and let stand two hours. Heat 
gradually to boiling point. Add one and one-half 
tablespoons of granulated gelatine and color with 
leaf green. Let stand ten minutes and strain into 
a ring mould first dipped in cold water. 

-Mrs. C. M. Wood. 

Chicken Timbale 

1 chicken 3 tablespoons cream 

3 eggs Cooked peas 

Salt Pepper 

I5oil and cut or chop very fine the dark meat and 
a part of the white meat of one chicken. Add the 
butter well pounded in with the chicken. Add the 
yolks of eggs well beaten. Add the whites of eggs 
beaten -and seasoned with salt and pepper. 

Take a Charlotte Russe pan and roll butter in- 
side and line with the peas. Then put in the chicken 
mixture jand cover tightly that no water may get in. 
and steam in a kettle of water for one hour. When 
on the platter put the rest of chicken around and 
pour over all a rich cream sauce. 

-Mrs. K. K. Sibley. 

Creamed Chicken en Casserole 

Cook tender, one young, fat chicken. Cut in small 
dice. Add can of mushrooms cut in small pieces. after* 



TRIED AND TRUE 4 ;! 

draining off juice. ( )ver this pour one tablespoon 
of best sherry wine. Set this aside, then make 
white sauce of one pint cream, piece of butter size 
of pigeon egg, enough Hour to make quite thick. 
Season with salt, pepper and three slices of 
minced red pimiento. Pour sauce over the chicken 
and mushrooms. Fill casseroles. Cover the top 
with rolled toasted bread crumbs and a little butter. 
I Sake until brown. 

James liufford (Colored Caterer.) 

Chicken Supreme 

(Serves twelve) 

1 quart chicken meat ' . ; pint chicken stock- 

cut in dice Cooked chicken livers 

' _. pint cream 1 small can truffles 

1 small can mushrooms 2 uncooked egg yolks 

2 hard boiled eggs 3 tablespoons butter 
4 tablespoons sherry 2 tablespoons sifted 

1 teaspoon lemon juice flour (pastry) 

Salt and cayenne pepper 

Make white sauce of butter, flour, cream and 
stock, seasoning with salt and cayenne. Add mush- 
rooms, truffles and hard-boiled eggs, finely chopped, 
chicken livers mashed to a powder, chicken, raw 
yolks, lemon juice and sherry last. Cook together 
only long enough to heat very hot. Serve in rame- 
kins or chafing dish. 

Louise Howard. 

Veal Croquettes 

Y$ pint milk 1 tablespoon flour 

1 tablespoon chopped l / 2 pint chopped meat 

parsley ' _> teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon lemon juice 1 tablespoon onion juice 
}/4 teaspoon celery sauce I 'inch of mace 
1 tablespoon butter 

Put butter in pan and melt, adding flour and 
milk, making a cream sauce ; when this is cooked 



44 TRIED AND TRUE 

add everything else and mould into shape and roll 
in bread crumbs, then in beaten egg and again in 
bread crumbs and let stand one hour before cook- 
ing in hot lard, enough to cover. 

Mrs. Xeil C. Murray. 

Entree 

10 large green sweet 3 cups stale bread 

peppers crumbs 

y> onion chopped fine Salt and pepper to taste 

Cut away the stem of pepper and remove seeds. 
Chop one pepper with the onion and saute them 
brown in butter. Parboil thirty oysters in their 
own liquor until plump. Pour hot oyster liquor 
over bread crumbs to moisten them well. Season 
with melted butter, pepper and salt and mix with the 
sauted onion and pepper. Fill each pepper with the 
mixture, allowing three oysters to each pepper. 
Sprinkle the tops with bread crumbs moistened with 
butter. Hake in moderate oven. 

Louisa Lines. 

Macaroni Croquettes 

(Serves six) 

6 oz. either macaroni or 2 tablespoons grated 
spaghetti cheese 

1 tablespoon butter Salt and cayenne 

2 raw egg yolks l /> pint milk 

2 tablespoons sifted flour 

Break macaroni into small pieces. Boil rapidly 
in well-salted boiling water twenty minutes. Drain 
and put in cold water for fifteen minutes. Put the 
milk to boil. Rub together the flour and butter 
and stir into the boiling milk. Cook until it thick- 
ens. Add the egg yolks. Stir constantly until 
thick. Take from fire, add macaroni, cheese, salt 
and pepper. Turn on platter to cool. Form into 
croquettes. Roll in seasoned crumbs, in beaten 
raw egg. again in crumbs, and place in ice box to 



TRIED AND TRUE 45 

harden. Fry in deep fat or olive oil. Serve with 
a white sauce to which has been added well seasoned 
cooked and strained fresh tomatoes. 

Louise Howard. 
Nut Croquettes 
2 large tomatoes 1 cup boiled rice 

1 long green pepper 1 cup chopped nuts 

(seeds removed) 2 eggs 

Pinch salt Pinch sugar 

1 small onion 

Chop tomatoes, onion and pepper. Season with 
salt and sugar. Frizzle in butter until thick, then 
add rice, chopped nuts and eggs. When all ingredi- 
ents have cooked, roll in crumbs and shape into 
croquettes. Roll croquettes in crumbs and place 
in frying basket. Fry in hot fat. 

Mrs. John F. Andrews. Jr. 
Chicken Croquettes 

y 2 chicken chopped fine 1 saltspoon white pepper 
X> teaspoon salt Few drops onion juice 

y 2 teaspoon celery salt 1 teaspoon chopped 
'4 saltspoon cayenne parsley 

pepper 1 teaspoon lemon juice 

Make one pint very thick cream sauce. When 
thick add one beaten egg, and mix the sauce with 
the chicken, using only enough to make it as soft 
as can be handled. Spread on a shallow plate to 
cool. Shape into rolls. Roll in fine bread crumbs, 
then dip in beaten egg. then crumbs again and fry 
in smoking fat one minute. 

Thick Cream Sauce 

2 even tablespoons 1 pint cream 

butter '/. teaspoon salt 

4 heaping tablespoons j/' saltspoon white 
Hour, or two corn pepper 

starch Few grains cayenne 

l /> teaspoon celery salt 
Scald the cream. Melt butter in granite sauce- 



46 TRIED AND TRUE 

pan : when bubbling add the dry corn starch or 
flour. Stir until well mixed. Add one-third of the 
cream, stir as it boils and thickens. Add more 
cream and boil again. AYhen perfectly smooth add 
the remainder of the cream. Add seasoning. Mix 
it while hot with the meat. 

Mrs. Hunter Booker. 

Chicken Croquettes 

2 chickens (minced) 2 cans mushrooms 

1 Ib. veal l /y can fresh peas 

Pepper and salt Very little sage 

Butter size large egg 2 tablespoons flour 

Cook chickens and veal, chop or mince (not fine. ) 
Put butter in skillet, let brown with flour then stir 
in the mushrooms: stir until it thickens nicely, then 
-add meat with seasonings. If it seems too dry add 
one well beaten egg, or if too moist cracker crumbs. 
Form in croquettes and fry a light brown in deep 
fat. 

James Bufford (Colored Caterer.) 

Mayonnaise of Mackinaw Trout 
Cut Mackinaw trout orke and one-half inches? 
thick, boil ten minutes in water (which has had 
onion, parsley and celery boiled tender in it first 
also salt and pepper). Lay fish on platter to cool. 
When ready to serve put each slice of fish on a let- 
tuce leaf and pour over it Mayonnaise with a small 
quantity of very finely chopped onion, chopped 
ley and whole capers, more parsley than capers. 
Serve with cheese straws. 

Anna \ . Ray. 

Deviled Crabs 

1 doz. large crabs 1 teaspoon lemon juice 

1 raw egg 1 scant tablespoon butter 

1 teaspoon \Yorcester- 8 tablespoons cream 

shire sauce Pinch of dry mustard 

2 tablespoons fine bread Salt, cayenne and to- 

crumbs basco sauce to taste 



TRIED AND TRUE 47 



mt.fr 



To those who appreciate the great value of exclusiveness in 
articles they choose for gifts - The house of 



Offers a wealth of suggestions in distinguished gems, jewels 
and art wares in all this country. 



437 SOUTH BROADWAY 



Boil live crabs fifteen minutes. Remove meat 
and pick in fine pieces. Wash shells well and dry 
them. Add the raw egg. cream, Worcestershire 
sauce, lemon juice, salt, pepper, mustard and to- 
basco. Mix thoroughly, fill the shells rounding full. 
Stir the bread crumbs into the melted butter and 
cover the top. l>ake only long enough to thorough- 
ly heat, and serve at once. 

Louise Howard. 



48 TRIED AND TRUE 



Meats 



"The sauce to meat is ceremony ; 
Meeting' were bare without it." 

Macbeth. 

Roast Wild Duck 

After cleaning thoroughly, leave them whole. 
Place in a baking pan, put two or three slices of 
bacon across breasts. Sprinkle very lightly with 
flour, add about one-fourth cup of boiling water 
and pinch of salt. I>ake in a very hot oven twenty 
minutes or possibly a trifle longer. Serve with the 
gravy from the pan poured over them. Wild duck 
is much nicer when not stuffed. 

Esther K. Bourke. 

Beef Loaf With Tomato Sauce 

2}/2 Ibs. Hamburger y 2 cup butter 

steak 2 cups sweet milk 

}/2 lb. pork (chopped) 1 teaspoon salt 
2 cups bread crumbs 1 teaspoon parsley 

l /2 teaspoon pepper (chopped) 

Mix thoroughly and pat into a loaf and bake 
two and one-half hours, basting often. Serve hot 
with or without tomato sauce. 

Tomato Sauce 

/4 can tomatoes 3 level teaspoons flour 

1 large slice of onion 2 tablespoons butter 

1 level teaspoon salt Sprinkling of cayenne 

Cook tomatoes with onion, strain and return to 
stove and add flour, butter, salt and cayenne, cook 
until consistency of thin custard. 

Mrs. Marie Hagerty. 



TRIED AND TRUE 49 

Sauer Braten (Boeuf a la Mode) 

4 Ibs. chuck or round 1 quart vinegar 

of beef 2 onions 

y 2 lb. bacon 1 teaspoon whole pepper 

3 bay leaves A few cloves 

Cut one-quarter pound of bacon into strips, mak- 
ing holes in meat and drawing them through the 
meat. Place meat and ingredients in covered earth- 
enware vessel. Pour vinegar over all, letting them 
remain in vessel, turning meat once or twice a day. 

At the end of the third day, fry out one-quarter 
pound of bacon, turning meat until quite brown in 
the bacon fat. When quite brown, place in pot, 
pouring the vinegar now heated over slowly ; add 
the ingredients, boil slowly for three hours. Add 
boiling water as required. 

Miss Apel. 

German Meat Loaf (Fine) 

1 lb. chopped beef Salt and pepper to taste 

1 lb. chopped pork 2 tablespoons capers 

(ground very fine) 1 large onion 

y 2 lemon, rind and all Hread crumbs 

2 sardelles (a small fish 1 tablespoon melted 

like sardine) butter 

2 eggs well beaten 

The capers, lemons, onions and sardelles should 
all be chopped together and added to meat. Add 
eggs and bread crumbs sufficient to mould into loaf, 
roll in bread crumbs and brown on top of stove in 
butter. Add water, one bay leaf, three whole 
cloves, three whole peppers. Cover. Bake in mod- 
erate oven one hour. 

Veal can be used the same way. 

Mrs. Eva M. Wilkinson. 



50 TRIED AND TRUE 

Beef Loaf With Tomato Sauce 

2 Ibs. round steak 1 cup cracker crumbs 

ground fine 1 teaspoon salt 

1 egg 2 teaspoons sage 

y 2 teaspoon pepper 2 /$ cup milk 

Mix well and pat into a firm loaf, lay on top two 
slices of bacon and small piece of suet ; bake forty- 
five minutes. 

Tomato Sauce 

1 pint strained tomatoes 1 tablespoon chopped 

3 cloves onion 

1 teaspoon butter A little salt and pepper 

Simmer ten minutes, thicken with cornstarch 
and strain. 

Mrs. Sawyer. 

Meat Loaf 
1 large cup rolled Salt pepper and sajje to 

crackers taste. 

Y lb. pickled pork 2 eggs 

3 Ibs. beef or veal 

Mix meat, crackers, eggs, seasoning. Form into 
loaf, dot with butter and put in baking pan ; keep 
a little water in pan ; slice one onion over top of loaf 
and bake two hours, basting frequently. Serve cold, 
sliced thin. 

Mrs. Cora S. P> rough. 

Virginia Brunswick Stew 

For a large family, three gallons of water to 
which add two chickens cut up and one pound fat 
bacon. As soon as chickens have cooked enough 
for the meat to leave the bones, take them out and 
pick to pieces. Return the meat to the water, add 
one half gallon of chopped Irish potatoes; one and 
one-half pints of green corn cut off, one pint butter 
beans, one quart ripe tomatoes peeled. Season w r ith 



TRIED AND TRUE 51 

black and red pepper, salt and butter. As soon as it 
begins to thicken, stir constantly. Squirrels are an 
excellent substitute for chicken in this stew. 

Mrs. Breckinridge. 

Virginia Brunswick Stew 

One small chicken or squirrel or rabbit ; four 
ears tender corn or one-half can corn ; one cup 
shelled lima beans ; four tomatoes ; one onion and 
several pieces of tender celery. One-half cup cooked 
rice to be added when stew is done ; one heaping 
teaspoon of butter; salt and pepper. 

Have chicken cut in small pieces and put on 
with one quart cold water. Let it boil a few min- 
utes, then add lima beans, tomatoes, onions and 
celery and let it simmer very slowly for one and a 
half to two hours. Then add corn which has been 
scraped from the ears, the rice, salt, pepper, butter, 
and let it boil rapidly a few minutes. Serve in 
ramekins or some individual dish. Very delicious. 

Lucy H. Guerrant. 

Pilaff 

1 cup raw rice 1 pint tomatoes, fresh or 

1- or 2 green chilis canned 

1 or 2 cups mutton cut 1 pint water (boiling) 

in dice 1 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon butter 

Fry the raw dry rice in iron saucepan with the 
butter until delicately browned. Add meat cut in 
dice, stir and brown. Add boiling water and to- 
matoes if canned are used, take the solid part only 
chilis cut in small pieces and salt. 

Cook slowly until rice is done and is moist but 
no liquid left. Do not stir at all. If necessary, lift 
carefully with a knife. 

Mrs. Charles S. Gilbert. 
Altadena. 



52 TRIED AND TRUE 

Cannelon of Beef 

1 Ib. Hamburger steak 1 teaspoon lemon juice 

1 egg 1 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon chopped 3 dashes black pepper 

parsley - tablespoon bread 

1 tablespoon butter crumbs 

y 2 teaspoon onion juice 

Mix all the ingredients together, pat and form 
into a loaf about six inches long. Wrap in but- 
tered paper. Place in baking pan in quick oven. 
l>ake thirty minutes. Baste every five minutes with 
one-quarter cup butter melted in one cup boiling 
water. Serve with brown mushroom sauce around 
it. 

Mushroom Sauce 

1 heaping tablespoon y 2 teaspoon onion juice 

butter y 2 teaspoon salt 

1 heaping tablespoon l /& teaspoon black or 

flour white pepper 

y 2 pint water or soup 1 tablespoon \Yorcester- 

stock shire sauce 

1 pint can mushrooms 

Melt the butter, add flour and brown, then add 
stock or water. Cook until boiling; add seasoning 
and mushrooms. Cook five minutes. 

Mrs. Sarah Weeks. 

Yorkshire Pudding 

4 eggs beaten light 2 cups sifted flour 

l /2 teaspoon salt 

When a roast of beef is within a half hour of the 
turn, drain off the gravy in a bowl, leaving two ta- 
blespoonfuls in the dripping pan. Lay a gridiron 
over the pan that will go into the oven. If not, prop 
the meat on clean sticks laid across the top of the 
dripping pan. Pour in the pudding, letting the fat 
from the roast drop on it as it cooks. 



TRIED AND TRUE 53 

Roast Beef with Yorkshire Pudding 

Beat whites and yolks in separate bowl .. Into 
the yolks stir the milk, then the frothed whites, and 
salted flour by turns. Mix quickly and bake at once. 
Cut the pudding into strips an inch wide by three 
long and lay about the beef when dished. 

-Mrs. H. C. King. 

Meat Toast 

Cold beef or steak may be used, but veal is bet- 
ter. To a pint of chopped meat add half a pint of 
sou]) stock, gravy or cream, a teaspoon salt, a little 
pepper, a tablespoon flour and one of butter. Simmer 
together for half an hour and spread on dipped 
toast. 

-Mrs. II. C. King. 

Country Club Chicken Pie 

l)oil a large chicken until very tender, remove the 
large bones and pull into uniform pieces. Put into 
large baking pan (in which you can serve it), thick- 
en the liquor in the kettle (a half cup of flour with 
one cup of milk would be sufficient). If it is not 
rich add butter. Have plenty of gravy. Cut four 
hard-boiled eggs into eighths, and put over the 
chicken ; pour on the gravy. 

Mix two cups flour, salt, two teaspoons baking 
powder, one heaping tablespoon soft lard or butter; 
add one cup of milk, make into a soft batter. Have 
the pan of chicken boiling gently. Put the batter 
on top by small spoonfuls rather close together. 
P>ake in a hot oven twenty minutes, as you would 
biscuits. It is important that the chicken is hot 
when the batter is put on top. 

This is an excellent way to utilize the remains 
of any kind of roast, especially lamb or veal. Be 
sure to have a good gravy with it. , 

Mrs. Edith Bayliss. 



54 TRIED AND TRUE 

Tongue with Raisins 

(German Style) 

Pickled beef or calf tongue boiled until tender. 
Peel and slice about one-half inch thick. 

For Gravy 
1 large cup seeded 2 tablespoons drippings 

raisins Pepper to taste 

; _> cup vinegar 2 cups hot water 

2 tablespoons flour 

Brown flour in drippings. Add vinegar and 
water, raisins and pepper. Put in sliced tongue 
and simmer one hour. Add more water if necessary. 
Tongue may be boiled day before. 

Mrs. A. K. Pergrim. 

Roast Ham 

1 fine "pig" ham Few whole cloves 

Handful clover hay 3 tablespoons brown 

1 pint bottle "dry" sugar 

champagne 2 tablespoons flour 

Soak ham in cold water over night. Put over 
slow fire handful sweet clover hay in iron kettle, 
ham and water sufficient to cover. Simmer all day. 
One hour before removing from fire add the pint of 
champagne. Allow ham to remain in the water and 
wine all night. Next morning take from water, re- 
move skin. Mix sugar and flour and cover ham. 
sticking the cloves in the upper side. Put in roast- 
ing pan with enough of the water and wine in which 
it was boiled to prevent burning. Bake in slow oven 
to brown. Serve hot or cold, with or without cham- 
pagne sauce. 

Louise Howard. 

How to Cook Smithfield Ham 
Soak ham over night, put on to boil next morn- 
ing, cooking very slowly. When done, take off and 
let cool in its own essence. When cold take off the 



TRIED AND TRUE 55 

skin, gash the top with a knife. Sprinkle on top 
of ham two teaspoons of sugar, a little dry mustard, 
teaspoon of celery seed, a little cracker dust, and 
wine glass of good sherry. Put in oven, and bake 
a few minutes, garnish with water cress or doubled- 
curled parsley. 

Frances Lee Booker, 

Virginia. 

Virginia Ham 

Select a good ham (one that is country cured 
or a Smithfield preferred). Place in a weak solu- 
tion of salt water to soak overnight. In the morn- 
ing put it in enough fresh water to cover and sim- 
mer nine hours. The ham must never boil; that 
is the secret of the success of this recipe. When 
it is done remove vessel from the stove and leave 
ham to cool in the water in which it has cooked. 
The following morning skin it, pour over a little 
wine, sprinkle with fine bread crumbs and sugar 
and bake a delicate brown. This recipe has been 
in the Randolph family of Virginia for generations, 
and if faithfully followed will make the lean and 
fat of the ham so delicious that it literally melts in 
the mouth. 

Mrs. P>aker P. Lee. 

GARNISHES 
Garnishes and Sauces for Meat and Fish 

Parsley is the almost universal garnish to all 
kinds of cold meat, poultry, fish, butter, cheese, etc. 

Horse-radish is the garnish for roast beef, and 
for fish in general ; for the latter, slices of lemon 
are sometimes laid alternately with heaps of horse- 
radish. 

Slices of lemon for boiled fowl, turkey and fish 
and for roast veal and calf's head. 

Fried smelts for turbot. 



56 TRIED AND TRUE 

Currant jelly for game, also for custard or bread 
pudding. 

Seville oranges in slices for wild ducks, wid- 
geons, teal. 

Mint, with or without parsley for roast lamb, hot 
or cold. 

A red pepper or small red apple for the mouth 
of a roast pig. 

Spots of red and black pepper alternated, on the 
fat side of a boiled ham, which side should be up- 
permost on the platter. 

Carrots in slices for boiled beef, hot or cold. They 
may be cut in ornamental forms. 

Barberries, fresh or preserved, for game. 

Red beet root sliced for cold meat, boiled beef or 
salt fish. 

Fried sausages or forcemeat balls for roast 
turkey, capon or fowl. 

Fennel for mackerel and salmon, whether fresh 
or pickled. 

Lobster coral and parsley for boiled fish. 

Sliced eggs, showing the white and yellow, for 
chicken salad. 

Sprays of celery top for salads, cold meats, etc. 
Mrs. Susan C. Hosmer. 

For Garnishing Fish, Etc. 

When using parsley or other green herb to sprin- 
kle over food, after chopping as fine as possible put 
it in a bit of cloth, twist it tight and hold under a 
stream of cold water for a few moments. Then 
squeeze it as dry as possible. When shaken out 
it will be in the form of fine green powder and can 
be evenly distributed. 

Lydia F. Moir. 

Virginia Cold Cucumber Catsup 
6 large young cucumbers 2 onions 
1 teaspoon white */2 teaspoon celery seed 

mustard .seed Salt and pepper to taste 



TRIED AND TRUE 57 

Peel and grate cucumbers and strain very dry 
through gauze. Add grated onion, a little horse- 
radish if desired, and the above seasoning. Then 
pour in good apple vinegar until it seems thin 
enough. Put in bottles with glass stoppers or 
close with corks and seal with wax. This is very 
excellent with all cold meats and will keep inde- 
finitely in a dark and cool place. 

Lucy II. Guerrant. 

Cucumber Sauce 

3 doz. large cucumbers ]A cup celery seed 

4 large onions A little black pepper 
YZ cup white mustard l /> cup salt 

seed l / 2 cup sugar 

Chop the cucumbers and onions fine. Then add 
the salt and let stand eight hours. Drain all the 
water off; then add all the other ingredients, cover 
with vinegar and put over fire until it is scalding 
hot ; bottle and seal tight. 

Mrs. B. F. Novioch. 

Chili Sauce 

24 large ripe tomatoes 4 tablespoons salt 
6 green peppers 1 qt. vinegar 

4 tablespoons brown 1 teaspoon ginger 

sugar 1 teaspoon cloves 

1 bunch celery 1 teaspoon allspice 

4 medium-sized onions 

Peel and cut tomatoes in small pieces, remove 
seeds from peppers. Chop onions, peppers and 
celery very fine. Add sugar and salt, mix, add vine- 
gar. Cook from three to four hours until it be- 
comes thick. Before removing from fire add spices. 
(Makes about fifteen to eighteen glasses.) 

Mrs.H. H.Walker. 



58 TRIED AND TRUE 

Chili Sauce 

3 doz. large ripe 12 onions 

tomatoes 2 tablespoons mustard 

12 green sweet peppers seed 

7 teacups vinegar A little salt 

Chop the peppers and onions, then put all to- 
gether and boil thoroughly. Strain and boil to 
any thickness desired. Add one cup sugar half an 
hour before removing from the fire. Bottle and seal 
tightly. 

Mrs. Wm. H. Allen. 

Chili Sauce 

18 large tomatoes 5 cups vinegar 

6 large onions 3 tablespoons salt 

6 red bell peppers 12 tablespoons sugar 

Chop tomatoes, onions and bell peppers, add vine- 
gar seasoned with salt and sugar ; cook until smooth 
and thick. 

Mrs. A. A. lUirnand. 

Celery Sauce 

15 large ripe tomatoes 1 red pepper 

5 large onions 2 tablespoons salt 

4 stalks celery 6 tablespoons white 
3j/2 cups vinegar sugar 

Chop all fine, but separately; boil one and a half 
hours; put in jars when cool and seal. 

Mrs. Neil C. Murray. 



TRIED AND TRUE 59 



Deoetables 



Corn Pudding 

6 ears tender corn 1 tablespoon corn meal 

2 eggs 1 teaspoon baking 
l /2 teaspoon salt powder 

1 pint milk 1 tablespoon butter 

1 tablespoon flour 

Cut corn from cob, slicing through middle of 
the grain : then scrape rest from cob, add meal and 
flour, the eggs well beaten, salt, milk and butter 
and last the baking powder. Pour into baking pan 
and bake in moderate oven one-half hour or until 
pudding sets like custard. Delicious. 

Miss Eva Wilkinson. 

Corn Pudding 

Two dozen ears green corn, well filled out but 
young, grate and scrape from cob. Add three or 
four pounded crackers, one quart milk, five eggs, 
four tablespoons sugar, a little salt. Bake two 
hours in a moderate oven. Serve with butter. 

(A great favorite at the old-fashioned Nantucket 
teaparties.) 

Corn Oysters 

1 pt. grated corn 1 cup flour 

i/} cup butter 1 beaten egg 

3 tablespoons milk Salt and pepper 

Mix ingredients. Drop in small cakes and fry 
in butter. 

Mrs. Susan C. Hosmer. 
Nantucket, Mass. 



60 



TRIED AND TRUE 



A SPECIAL INVITATION 

Is extended to all lovers of the 
Home Beautiful to inspect this 
most interesting exhibit of fur- 
nishings for the home. 

Our Gift Section on the third 
floor will be found particularly 
interesting to those seeking the 
unusual yet practical gift. 




California furniture Co. 



, 644=646 



Corn Oysters 
1 doz. ears green corn, 1 teaspoon baking 

grated powder 

1 tablespoon melted 1 egg 

butter y+ cnp flour 

Pepper and salt to taste 

Mix well together, drop by tablespoon into a pan 
containing hot butter and fry to a light brown. 
Serves about eight or ten people. 

Martha Wilson \Yright. 

Corn Oysters 

Four ears of corn make one level cup of corn 
grated in a coarse grater, one cup of milk, one and 
one-half teaspoons salt, one-quarter teaspoon pep- 
per, two eggs. Beat eggs and add to the mixture. 



TRIED AND TRUE 61 

Cook in a frying pan with fat or olive oil to a depth 
of one-half inch. Drop the mixture by the spoon- 
ful into the fat. Cover for the first few moments. 
When brown turn, and drain on brown paper. 

-Mrs. H. C. King. 

Egg Plant 

1 egg plant 1 egg 

3 tablespoons milk Pinch salt 

1 good tablespoon flour 

Slice egg plant about three-quarters inch thick. 
Lay in salt ice water one hour. (Use about one 
medium tablespoon of salt for six or seven pieces.) 
Beat egg, add flour, milk and salt. Dip pieces of 
egg plant in this batter and fry as doughnuts. 

Mrs. Win. S. Crane. 

Potato for Lunch (Best in Chafing Dish) 
f) large potatoes (cold l / 2 pint cream 

boiled) Salt, paprika and pinch 

10 chips butter chopped parsley 

2 teaspoons dry mustard 

Cut cold boiled potatoes in dice. Put butter 
and cream in chafing dish. Let come to a boil. 
Add potatoes, season well with salt and pepper and 
add pimientos cut in small squares. Enough pap- 
rika to give a rich creamy pink. Cook until cream 
will not run from potatoes. Add the finely chopped 
parsley. 

Mrs. E. K. Sibley. 

Cheese Souffle 

\y 2 cups milk 3 eggs 

1 tablespoon flour 1 cup cheese 

Mix flour and milk and cook, then add the well- 
beaten yolks of eggs and finely chopped cheese, salt 
to taste, bit of paprika. Cook until cheese is melted, 
then put in the well-beaten whites. Cook for a min- 



62 TRIED AND TRUE 

ute. Line a dish with cooked rice, pour in the cheese 
mixture, bake in a slow oven twenty-five minutes. 

Mrs. A. A. lUirnand. 

Kidney Beans with Cheese 
3 cups beans 1 green pepper 

2 red peppers 1 small onion 

6 tomatoes 

Soak beans over night. Add fresh water in 
morning, bring to a boil. Pour water off, cook un- 
til tender. Prepare sauce of tomatoes, chopped pep- 
pers, onion and salt, add to beans. Simmer two 
hours. Let stand over night. When ready to serve, 
add a large lump of butter and Eastern cheese to 
taste. 

Carolyn Hewson. 

Boston Baked Beans 

Put one pint of white beans to soak in water on 
back of stove. Next morning drain off the water 
and put in cold water with soda the size of a pea, 
cook until skin cracks when air touches them. 
Drain again, put in fresh water in the bean jug 
with one tablespoon of molasses and half pound 
salt pork on top ; bake slowly the rest of the day. 

Anna V. Ray. 

Indian Meal Souffle 

4 cups sweet milk 1 tablespoon butter 

YZ teaspoon salt 2 eggs 

1 cup yellow corn meal 

Scald the milk to boiling point. Sift in slowly 
the meal stirring constantly, add butter and salt. 
When thickened to the consistency of thick cream 
remove from fire. Let it cool somewhat. Then 
beat eggs until foamy and mix with the meal. P>eat 
hard and bake in buttered dish twenty-five min- 
utes. Good with game or chicken. 

Mrs. H. A. Wilkinson. 



63 

Potato Balls 

Wash and pare potatoes. With vegetable cut- 
ter scoop in small balls. Fry in deep fat. Drain 
on brown paper and sprinkle with salt and chopped 
parsley. Serve hot. 

Mrs. J. F. Andrews. Jr. 

A Hint to the Cook 

If you have mashed potatoes left over, rinse a 
tumbler with cold water, and pack the potatoes 
evenly in the glass. When cold turn out and slice 
the right thickness without breaking. Dip them in 
flour and fry to a good brown and serve hot. 

Mrs. Luke D. Phillips. 

Sweet Potato Croquettes 

Boil potatoes well, then peel and mash fine, sea- 
son with salt, roll into form about two inches long 
in palms of hands. Dip in well beaten eggs, mixed 
with a little cream, then dip in cracker crumbs and 
fry in hot butter. 

Mrs. J. E. Quinn. 

Noodles 

1 egg y 2 teaspoon salt 

1 cup flour A little water 

Roll out as thin as possible, hang or spread out 
until dry. When perfectly dry cut into thin strips. 
Put into boiling salted water, boil half hour. Strain 
through colander, and cover with bread crumbs, 
fried brown in butter. 

Miss Apel. 

Macaroni and Cheese 

1 Ib. cheese 1 box macaroni 

Boil macaroni in salted water until tender. Strain 
and put in boiling water again. Add one-half milk. 
When tender remove and put one layer of macaroni, 
one layer of finely cut cheese and small bits of but- 



64 TRIED AND TRUE 

ter, paprika, salt and tomatoes. Add the liquor it 
has been boiled in. Continue until the granite basin 
is full. Add more milk if needed. Cook about two 
hours in a medium oven until brown. 

Mrs. H. C. King. 

Nut Loaf 

1 pint bread crumbs 1 cup chopped nuts 

l /4 cup melted butter 

(Brazil nuts are very good.) Season with salt 
and pepper and sweet herbs. Moisten well with milk. 
Bake fifteen minutes in a quick oven. Serve with 
tomato sauce. 

Nut Loaf 

2 teaspoons baking 2 eggs 

powder \]/ 2 cups English 

6 soda crackers rolled walnuts broken fine 

fine 1 pt. milk 

l /> cup flour 

Mix well and bake in a bread pan in medium hot 
oven one-half hour. Serve hot with tomato sauce. 

Mrs. Luke D. Phillips. 

Macaroni and Cheese 

l / 2 lb. macaroni or 1 large tablespoon butter 

spaghetti 2 large tablespoons 

1 pint milk" flour 

1 cup Eastern cheese 

Break macaroni into one and one-half quarts of 
boiling salted water and boil until tender (about 
twenty-five minutes). Place in colander and dash 
cold water over it and drain. 

Make a thick white sauce by melting butter, add- 
ing flour and slowly stirring in the milk, then add 
the cheese, chopped if soft, grated if dry, salt and 
pepper, stir until cheese is melted, then add macar- 
oni. Place in buttered baking dish, sprinkle over 



TRIED AND TRUE 65 

top with bread crumbs, bits of cheese, butter and 
paprika. Brown in oven. 

Mrs. A. A. Burnand. 

Dago Tunny 

(For six people) 

1 package macaroni 1 kettle water 
Salt 1 lump butter 
3 or 4 slices bacon 2 onions 

2 or 3 large tomatoes 1 red pepper 

Bring to a boil a kettle of water, salt to taste. 
Put in a lump of butter the size of a walnut. Stir 
in macaroni slowly so the water will continue to 
boil. Cook over a moderate fire until thoroughly 
done (about th: ee-quarters of an hour). 

\Yhile macaroni is boiling, dice three or four 
slices of bacon, slice two good-sized onions and fry 
together until a rich brown. Peel two or three large 
tomatoes by placing in boiling water to loosen skins. 
Cut them up fine and cook in small saucepan adding 
the onions and bacon, also add red pepper to suit 
taste. When the macaroni is about cooked stir 
into it this sauce, continue cooking slowly for ten 
or fifteen minutes. Just before serving, sprinkle 
with grated cheese. 

\ erna Wilbur Simmons. 

Asparagus and Eggs 

Cut two dozen stalks of asparagus, (leaving out 
the hard parts) in inch lengths and boil tender. 
Drain. Pour upon them a cupful of drawn butter, 
stir until hot, then turn into a baking dish. Break 
six eggs upon top and put a bit of butter upon each 
one. also salt and pepper. Place in quick oven until 
the eggs are set. 

Mrs. H. C. King. 



66 TRIED AND TRUE 

Stuffed Egg Plant 

l /2 inside of egg plant y^ cup cold meat 

y 2 cucumber chopped 

y 2 cup cracker crumbs Butter size of walnut 
Salt to taste l / 2 sweet pepper 

Moisten with tomato 

Cut the egg plant in two, lengthwise. Remove 
the inside with a spoon and take one-half of it. one- 
half sweet pepper and one-half cucumber, these 
three chopped together. Chop the meat and roll the 
crackers. Salt to taste, melt the butter. Mix all 
ingredients and make into the proper consistency 
with tomato. Put the mixture into the two half 
shells and bake thirty minutes. Serve shells on 
platter, garnished with parsley. 

Mrs. A. L. Thompson. 



W1LSH1RE I HOME 55105 OR 55102 

Prompt Free Delivery 
We Solicit Telephone Orders 



ALVARADO PHARMACY 

Corner Sixth and Alvarado Streets 

CUT RATE DRUGGISTS 

Prescriptions Filled by Graduate Pharmacists. Imported and 
Domestic Toilet Requisits. Fine Stationery. 

We invite your inspection of the most up-to-date Drug Store 
of the Westlake District. 



TRIED AND TRUE 67 



Salabs anfc Salab IDressinge 



"Let onion atoms lurk within the bowl. 
And half suspected animate the whole." 

Sidney Smith. 

SALAD DRESSINGS 

Mayonnaise Dressing 

1 egg 1 cup cream ( sour or 

1 level tablespoon salt or sweet) 

1 level tablespoon flour 1 scant cup sugar 
1 teaspoon mustard 1 cup weak vinegar 

Beat the egg, add all the dry ingredients, then 
the cream, stir well to prevent lumps, add the vine- 
gar, cook until thick, stirring constantly, in a double 
boiler. 

This is excellent made with condensed milk, full 
strength, if wanted very rich. Mary E. Rayliss. 

Salad Dressing 

1 tablespoon sugar 3 teaspoons melted 

}/2 tablespoon salt butter 

1 egg slightly beaten 1 cup thin cream or milk 

]/> tablespoon mustard J4 CU P vinegar 

Mix sugar, mustard and salt together; then add 
egg and melted butter and very gradually the vine- 
gar. Cook in double boiler until consistency of 
soft custard. Nice on potato salad, tomatoes, raw 
cabbage, etc. Mrs. Sawyer. 

Cream Mayonnaise 

1 cup cream 1 teaspoon dry mustard 

1 cup vinegar 1 teaspoon salt 

YZ cup sugar Dust cayenne pepper 

I /T, cup butter 3 beaten eggs 



68 TRIED AND TRUE 

Use double boiler. Cream sugar, butter, salt and 
pepper. \\ hen this comes to the boiling point add 
the mustard first mixed with a tablespoon cream. 
Then add the beaten eggs stirring constantly, add- 
ing small quantities of the vinegar as the sauce 
thickens until all is incorporated and the sauce is 
the thickness of Mayonnaise. 

Strain and place on ice until ready for use. 

Mrs. E. K. Siblc-y. 

Almond Cream Dressing 

1 cup whipped cream 1 teaspoon of Taragon 

Yolk of 1 egg vinegar 

1 tablespoon powdered 1 teaspoon olive oil 

sugar Just a little salt to taste 

Garnish with strawberry, lettuce, blackberry, 
fixed to taste. 

Mrs. Thomas Roswell Browne. 

French Dressing 

\ l /2 teaspoons salt 3 tablespoons lemon 

6 tablespoons olive oil juice 

]/4 teaspoon mustard Dash cayenne 

l /4 teaspoon pepper 

A few drops of onion juice (optional) 
Mix ingredients and stir until well blended. 

Boiled Salad Dressing 

\ l /2 teaspoon mustard l l / 2 teaspoons melted 
\}/2 teaspoons salt butter 

2 teaspoons flour 2 egg yolks 

l /% teaspoon cayenne *4 CU P vinegar 

l /2 cup thick cream 

Mix dry ingredients, add yolks of eggs slightly 
beaten, then add butter and vinegar very slowly. 
Cook over boiling water until mixture thickens like 
custard, strain and cool, then add cream which has 
been beaten stiff. 

Anna V. Rav. 



69 



Cooked Salad Dressing 

2 eggs or yolks of 4 1 tablespoon Hour 

I 'inch of salt l / 2 cup vinegar 

1 tablespoon mustard \ l / 2 cups sour cream 
2 tablespoons sugar 

Mrs. Charles F. Potter. 

Mustard Dressing 

Three even tablespoons of mustard ; one table- 
spoon sugar; one egg well beaten and mixed with 
sugar and mustard to a paste; one teaspoon of 
vinegar. Put in double boiler and cook well. When 
cool add tablespoon of oil. Bottle for use. 

-Mrs. C. M. Wood. 

Salad Dressing 

(Most excellent) 
1 egg beaten light 2 teaspoons corn starch 

1 cup sweet milk or wet with a little cold 
cream water 

-)4 cup vinegar l / 2 cup sugar 

J4 cup butter 

Mix all cold, cook in double boiler until quite 
thick. 

Fruit Salad Dressing 
y\ cup cream Pinch salt, red pepper 

2 tablespoons vinegar and mustard 

3 egg yolks 2 teaspoons sugar 

3 little squares butter 

If not sour enough, add lemon juice when ready 
to serve. Cook all in double boiler to consistency 
of cream. 

Mayonnaise Dressing 

To prepare Mayonnaise have the oil, two yolks 
of eggs and a bowl ice cold. Put the yolks in the 
bowl. Stir two minutes then add by degrees three- 
quarters cup oil, a few drops at a time, while stir- 



70 TRIED AND TRUE 

ring with a small wooden spoon. Stir two minutes, 
then continue and use the remaining oil. When the 
sauce becomes too thick add a little vinegar, about 
one-tablespoon in all. Add last half teaspoon Eng- 
lish mustard and half pint of whipped cream. The 
Mayonnaise may be used without the whipped 
cream. (Wlren the oil is half used, add one teas- 
poon salt). 

Mrs. H. C. King. 

Mayonnaise Dressing 

1 egg y 2 teaspoon mustard 

l /2 teaspoon salt ]/2 teaspoon vinegar 

(Use Salad oil instead of Olive oil) 
Beat egg. mustard and salt well together, adding 
salad oil a few drops at a time, beating continually, 
until you have the amount desired ; then add vinegar 
and paprika. If it should show a tendency to curdle, 
put on ice for a few minutes. Put into a glass jar 
and keep in cool place. If desired whipped cream 
may be added which improves it. 

Mrs. Thomas Roswell Browne. 

Tomato Salad 

, Three good-sized tomatoes cut in small pieces 
stewed with dashes of paprika and salt, sprig of 
parsley, two teaspoons of sugar and piece of onion 
size of a pea. Cook all about ten minutes. Strain. 
To the juice add a half box of Knox gelatine which 
has been previously soaked in cold water. Pour in 
individual molds. 

Lydia F. Moir. 

Celery Salad 

Six large stalks of celery cut very fine. Keep 
covered with boiling water and cook until tender. 
Add two-thirds of envelope of Knox gelatine (pre- 
viously soaked in cold water). Attractive i: poured 



TRIED AND TRUE 71 

in a ring mold. Serve with cucumbers on lettuce 
leaves with French Dressing. 

Ivvdia F. Moir. 

Carrot Salad 

3 medium-sized carrots 1 cup nuts 

Grate the raw carrots, add broken nuts and mix 
with Mayonnaise Dressing, using a fork. This is a 
deceiving salad, and very delicious for yellow 
luncheons. Serve cold on lettuce. 

Mrs. Thomas Roswell Browne. 

Chicken Cucumber, a la Jacqueo 

(For twelve persons) 
1 chicken cut to dice 2 cucumbers, cut to 

1 can of French peas dice 

2 bunches of celery % qt. olive oil 

Juice of two lemons, a little vinegar to taste, 
season with salt and pepper. 

Garnish With pirnientos, olives, hearts of let- 
tuce. 

Salad, a la Alice Roosevelt 

(For twelve persons) 

8 tomatoes, cut up in Hearts of two lettuce 
quarters ]/4 cup powdered sugar 

A little salt and pepper, paprika, caper and vine- 
gar. Mayonnaise Dressing. 

Garnish with hearts of lettuce and eggs. 

Mint Salad, a 1' Orange 

With Almond Cream Dressing 

(For twelve persons) 

7 oranges l /4 cup mint, chopped 

1 box strawberries very fine 

*4 cup Maraschino l / cup cocoa nut chop- 

cherries ped very fine 

Juice of two lemons Keep on ice until served 

Mrs. Thomas Roswell Browne. 



72 TRIED AND TRUE 

Cucumber Salad 

l /2 box Knox gelatine j/> cup pineapple juice 

Juice of three lemons 1 pt. boiling water 

YZ cup sugar 1 cup cucumber 

1 level teaspoon salt Touch green vegetable 
1 cup pineapple coloring 

}/2 cup cold water 

Take gelatine, cold water and lemon, mix and 
let stand for twenty minutes. Put pineapple and 
cucumber through meat grinder. Add remainder of 
ingredients, well mixed, add boiling water last, put 
on ice to cool. Serve on lettuce with Mayonnaise 
Dressing. This is a delicious salad, very appropri- 
ate for green luncheons. 

Mrs. Thomas Roswell Browne. 

Hindu Salad 

Pineapple Bananas 

Maraschino cherries Kirch liqueur 

Bananas and pineapple in equal parts. Dice 
pineapple, slice bananas; sprinkle Maraschino cher- 
ries, add Kirch to taste. 

Verna Wilbur Simmons. 

Pineapple and Marshmallow Salad 
Take equal quantities of pineapple and marsh- 
mallow. Dice the pineapple and cut the marshmal- 
lows in four parts with scissors. For dressing take 
equal parts Mayonnaise and whipped cream. Mix 
together, serve on lettuce. Do not mix until ready 
to serve. 

Anna V. Ray. 

Pineapple Salad 

Juice of six lemons, sweeten to taste. One can 
Hawaiian Pineapple. 

Dissolve three tablespoons of gelatine in as little 
water as possible. Cut one cucumber in small dice 
(two if small), also cut up most of the pineapple. A 



TRIED AND TRUE 73 

little green leaf coloring. Put all together and 
mould. Serve on lettuce leaves. 

Dressing 

( )ne-half portion of whipped cream to one-half 
Mayonnaise. Break up pecan meats into small bits 
(do not chop) and put into dressing. Some prefer 
one-third Mayonnaise to two-thirds cream. 

Mrs. Charles F. Potter. 

Macaroni Salad 

2 cups boiled macaroni French Dressing 

1 cup chopped celery Mayonnaise Dressing 

1 cup chopped cabbage 

Cut macaroni into inch pieces, mix thoroughly 
with cabbage and celery, marinate with French 
Dressing, season with salt and paprika; lastly mix 
with Mayonnaise. Garnish with egg. 

Mrs. R. H. Norton. 

Peach and Pineapple Salad 

Take one slice of Hawaiian Pineapple, place half 
of peach in center. Garnish with Boiled Dressing 
containing chopped nuts. Serve on lettuce leaf. Use 
Boiled Salad Dressing. 

Anna V. Ray. 

Nasturtium and Cream Salad 
Select large, perfect nasturtium leaves and blos- 
soms. Lay on ice until crisp. Arrange leaves in 
fancy flat dish. Put blossoms on leaves, sprinkle 
with salt. Roll out in your hands little patties of 
cottage cheese, two inches long and put in center 
of each blossom. Either French Dressing or May- 
onnaise may be used as preferred. 

Mrs. H. C. King. 

Melon Salad 

Take a fine cantaloupe melon, scoop the fruit in 
smooth tablespoonfuls, not breaking. Let it stand a 



74 TRIED AND TRUE 

few minutes with dressing of oil, vinegar, salt and 
pepper. Place on ice until ready to serve. 

Mrs. H. C. King. 

Fruit Salad 

Put two level tablespoons Knox gelatine in half 
cup of cold water, let stand ten minutes. Boil one 
and one-quarter cups of sugar and chopped rind of 
two lemons in two cups of water for two minutes. 
Remove syrup from fire and add juice of lemons and 
gelatine. Stir until dissolved. (Dip moulds in cold 
water, drain and put whatever fruit you wish in 
moulds). Pour mixture over fruit and stand in ice 
pack three hours. Arrange on lettuce and garnish 
with Moiled Dressing. 

Miss Florence Clark. 

Cabbage Salad 

1 small heiul cabbage 1 head celery 

1 small onion 4 hard-boiled eggs 

Chop cabbage, celery and onion rather fine. Add 
eggs cut in cubes. Season with salt, a little sugar 
and black pepper to taste. Cover with following 
dressing. 

One-half cup vinegar, scant one-quarter cup 
water. ISring to boil and pour slowly so as not to 
curdle the egg that has been beaten very light and 
that a teaspoon of corn starch has been added to. 
Let dressing get perfectly cold before putting it on 
the salad. After adding the dressing to the salad, 
add two large tablespoons of olive oil. 

Mrs. Arthur Lowe Wright, Jr. 

Tomato Jelly Salad 

1 can tomatoes 1 cup water 

1 onion y 2 package gelatine 
j4 bay leaf ( 1 envelope) 

2 stalks celery 3 cloves 

Salt and pepper to taste 
Soak gelatine in one-half of water. Press to- 



TRIED AND TRUE 75 

matoes through sieve to remove seeds. Cook all in- 
gredients except gelatine half hour. Remove from 
fire and while boiling hot pour over soaked gelatine 
when dissolved. Pour into moulds. 

Mrs. Paul Weeks. 

Salad 

One can pineapple (large) chopped very fine, 
all the juice. One medium-sized cucumber cut very 
fine. Juice of three lemons, three-quarters cup 
sugar: three tablespoons of gelatine soaked in 
enough water to dissolve, pinch of salt and one of 
red pepper. ( )ne quart of boiling water. Burnett's 
coloring. Add whipped cream and chopped nuts to 
Mayonnaise for dressing. 

(This will serve eighteen people.) 

Louisa Lines. 

Salmon Salad 

1 can salmon (1 Ib.) 1 hard-boiled egg 

YI cup vinegar Salt, paprika and black 

2 eggs pepper to taste 
Drain liquid off salmon and add to liquid the 

vinegar. Put on stove to boil. Remove and add 
beaten yolks of eggs, stirring until thick. Pick 
salmon to pieces and add to it the beaten whites of 
the eggs. Then add seasoning and Boiled Dressing. 
Cut hard-boiled egg over the top and serve on let- 
tuce leaves. 

-Miss C. Dilland. 

Tomato and Mushroom Salad 
Take six tomatoes. Scoop out the pulp. Put the 
shells in a cold place. Mix the pulp (leaving out the 
seeds) with equal quantities of chopped olives and 
mushrooms. Allow two tablespoons of French 
Dressing to each tomato. Fill shells just before 
serving. Garnish top of each with Mayonnaise 
Dressing and serve on lettuce or water cress. 

Anna Y. Rav. 



76 TRIED AND TRUE 

Meat Salad 

1 Ib. veal }/2 medium-sized onion 

y 2 lb. smoked tongue 1 doz. olives seeded 

4 or 5 stalks celery 3 pieces of pimiento 

3 hard-boiled eggs 

Cook a nice juicy piece of veal. Chop fine (or 
run through meat grinder) meat, onion, celery, 
olives, pimiento and two of the hard-boiled eggs, 
reserving one egg for garnishing. Add lettuce 
(small head) cut with sharp knife or scissors ; salt 
and pepper (cayenne to taste) or chili pepper. 

Enough Duikee's Salad Dressing with a little 
olive oil, a few drops of Worcestershire Sauce and 
juice of half a lemon added to make it soft, or if 
preferred a home-made Mayonnaise Dressing. 

Garnish the dish with parsley, olives and the 
reserved hard-boiled egg cut in rings. 

Miss Martha Wilson Wright. 

Oyster Salad 

(Serves eight) 

1 (|t. oysters Salt and cayenne 

1 tablespoon cider 1 pt. very thick- 

vinegar Mayonnaise 

2 tablespoons salad oil 

Allow oysters to just come to boil in well salted 
water. When cold free from bits of shell and dry 
on napkin. Put in deep China bowl and pour over 
the vinegar and oil, salt and pepper. Put in ice box 
to marinate for two or three hours. 

Cut fine across the stalk enough tender celery 
to cover serving platter one-half inch deep. Add 
Mayonnaise to the oysters that have been well 
drained from the marinate. Pile on bed of celery, 
adding a little Mayonnaise on top if liked. Do not 
mix oysters with celery, but allow celery to remain 
as a bed when served. Serve very cold with green 
pepper sandwiches. 

Louise Howard. 



TRIED AND TRUE 77 



Hot Puddings 

"Strange I should never of a Dumpling dream : 
But. Goody, tell me, where, where, where's the 

seam?" 

"Sire, there's no seam," quoth she: "I never knew 
That folks did Apple-Dumplings sew." 
"\o?" cried the staring monarch with a grin; 
"Xo\v, how the devil got the apple in?" 

John \Yolcott. 

Steamed Apple Dumpling 

6 apples 2 teaspoons baking 

1 cup sugar powder 

1/-2 cups water Milk to mix 

Salt to taste 2 cups flour 

1 tablespoon butter 

Cook in granite pan or kettle, large enough to 
allow dough to swell. Put the sugar and water in 
your granite kettle and let them come to a boil. 
Pare the apples and slice. Turn the apples into the 
boiling syrup, place cover over kettle and boil until 
half cooked. 

To cover: Add the baking powder and salt to 
the flour, and run the mixture through the sieve 
three times. Rub the butter into the flour as for 
biscuits. Add milk to make a stiff batter and lay it 
in kettle over the apples with a spoon. Cover the 
whole with a close lid putting a weight on top. Place 
the kettle where there will be no danger of burning 
the apples, and let steam twenty minutes without 
removing the lid. 

When serving: Take with a spoon a portion of 



78 TRIED AND TRUE 

the dough and a portion of the apple. Serve with 
sugar and cream. Flavor with nutmeg if wished. 
This is extremely light, and much superior to the 
boiled apple dumpling. 

Mrs. Rebecca Thompson. 



Chocolate Pudding 

1 pt. bread crumbs 5 tablespoons grated 

1 _. cup sugar chocolate 

1 pt. milk 3 eggs 

Scald the milk, add the bread crumbs and choco- 
late : then the \ oiks of the eggs and sugar which 
have been well beaten together. Pour into buttered 
pudding dish. Hake about twenty minutes or until 
set. 

From the whites make a meringue. Beat the 
whites stiff, add three tablespoons of powdered 
sugar. Spread over the top of pudding and return 
to oveo for a light brown. Serve cold with sweet- 
ened cream to which has been added a little vanilla. 

Mrs. Martha Wilson Wright. 



Carrot Pudding 

1 cup sugar 1 cup shredded and 

1 cup carrots chopped suet 

1 cup currants 1 cup chopped nuts 

1 cup flour 1 teaspoon cinnamon. 

1 cup raisins allspice and cloves 

1 cup grated potato 

(irate potatoes and carrots. Just before putting 
into the buttered mould add one teaspoon of baking 
powder. Put in double boiler and steam three 
hours. Serve with hard sauce. 

Mrs. E. P. Johnson. 



TRIED AND TRUE 79 

Graham Pudding 

1 cup raisins, chopped 1 cup molasses 
fine 1 cup sweet milk 

A little salt 2 teaspoons soda 

2 cups graham flour 

Mix together molasses and raisins, add salt, add 
milk in which soda has been dissolved, add flour 
last. Steam three hours. 

Sauce for Graham Pudding 

J/> cup butter (scant) 1 cup sugar 

3 eggs Vanilla to flavor 

Mix well butter and sugar, add eggs (beat whites 
and yolks separately) add the flour. 

Set in dish of hot water, on the fire. 

Mrs. J. E. Quinn. 

Whole Wheat Pudding 

2 /$ cup molasses 1 cup sour milk 

2 cups graham flour. 1/2 teaspoon salt 
sifted j/2 teaspoon soda 

1 cup stoned raisins 
Steam two and one-half hours. 

Sauce 

l /2 cup butter 1 cup sugar 

Yolks of 2 eggs 

Stir sugar and butter to a cream, add the eggs. 
Heat this over a tea-kettle till thoroughly cooked 
and then add the beaten whites and flavor with va- 
nilla. 

Mrs. George Lawton. 

Prune Whip 

One pound prunes boiled tender and crushed 
through colander. When cool add whites of four 
eggs and whip thoroughly; add two tablespoons 



80 TRIED AND TRUE 

sugar. Bake in a dish of hot water twenty minutes 
and serve with or without cream. 

Mrs. George Lawton. 

Queen of Puddings 

1 pt. milk 2 eggs 

l /2 cup sugar 1 lemon 

1 cup fine bread crumbs 

Beat yolks of eggs, add sugar, beat until 
smooth ; add milk slowly then bread crumbs and 
half lemon rind grated. Put in a pan of hot water 
and bake in moderate oven until almost done. Add 
two tablespoons of sugar, juice of one-half lemon, to 
well-beaten whites of eggs. Spread on top of pud- 
ding and return to oven for about one minute. 
Should be a delicate brown. Serve with cream. 
Serves about five or six persons. 

Miss ]essie L. Coulter. 
t 
Peach Rolls 

Stew evaporated peaches, sweeten and flavor to 
taste. Make a good baking powder crust, roll very 
thin, spread with fruit putting thin slices of butter 
on fruit, roll and place in pan. (The pan should be 
four or five inches deep.) To three or four rolls add 
one cup of sugar, half cup butter and enough hot 
water to cover the rolls. Bake thirty minutes. 
Serve with sugar and cream or the following sauce. 

Sauce 

1 tablespoon butter 1 cup sugar 

l /> water glass sherry 

Cream butter and sugar then add wine, a little 
at a time. 

Anna V. Ray. 

Caramel Pudding 
1 cup sugar 3 eggs 

1 qt. milk 
Brown' in a skillet one cup of sugar. When melt- 



TRIED AND TRUE 81 

ed add hot water enough to boil up. Add this mix- 
ture to one quart of milk which has been heating, 
stir until smooth and take from stove to cool. When 
cool, not cold, add three eggs well beaten and bake 
twenty minutes. Set in pan of hot water. 

Mrs. Arthur L.Wright. 

Indian Pudding 
(Old New England Recipe) 

3 cups sweet milk >4 CU P citron 

1 \/2 cups yellow corn 1 teaspoon ginger 

meal 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

2*4 cup dark molasses \ l /> tablespoons butter 

1 heaping tablespoon J4 CU P walnut meats 

brown sugar 2 tablespoons flour 

7 4 cup seeded raisins >4 CU P orange peel 

Scald the milk, sift in the meal, cook until 
creamy. Add salt and butter. Remove from fire, 
and add molasses, sugar, ginger, cinnamon and 
flour. Beat thoroughly, then add beaten egg and 
last the fruit. Steam three hours. Serve hot with 
whipped cream and maple syrup. 

-Mrs. H. A. Wilkinson. 

Whitpot 

1 qt. milk 2 even tablespoons 

1 tablespoon corn meal flour 

1 egg l /2 cup molasses 

Boil half the milk, add a little salt, mix the other 
ingredients with the cold milk. Pour this into the 
boiling milk without stirring. Set in a moderate 
oven and bake till a little thicker than boiled cus- 
tard. 

(An old-fashioned dessert.) 

Mrs. Susan C. Hosmer. 



82 TRIED AND TRUE 

Date Tapioca Pudding 

1 Ib. dates, minced 3 cups hot water 

1 lemon (juice and 3 oranges pulped 

grated rind) 1 cup sugar 

l /2 cup minute tapioca 

Cook the tapioca and the three cups of hot water 
in a double boiler until clear. Mix the fruit and 
sugar together. Put layer of tapioca in buttered 
pudding dish, then the fruit mixture; laslly cover 
with remaining tapioca and bake half an hjur. Cover 
with a meringue and brown delicately. Serve per- 
fectly cold with cream. Other fruits >nay be used 
in place of the dates dried figs or pineapples, fresh 
cherries or loganberries. 

Martha Wilson Wright. 
Steamed Pudding 

1 cup molasses. New 1 cup cold water 

Orleans 3 cups flour 

1 cup raisins Pinch of salt 

1 level teaspoon soda 

Put soda in molasses, then melt the butter, add 
other ingredients and mix well. Put in buttered tin 
and steam three hours. 

Sauce 

2 tablespoons butter 2 tablespoons water 
2 eggs 3 tablespoons brandy 

1 cup pulverized sugar 

Cream the butter and sugar together, adding the 
yolks, and, still beating, add water and the brandy, 
beating the whites at the last and adding them. A 
delicious sauce. 

Mrs. Xeil C. Murray. 
Bread Pudding with Meringue 
P>eat the yolks of four eggs well, add one cup 
sugar, the grated rind of one lemon and then mix 
in two cups of bread crumbs, one quart of milk and 
a half teaspoon of lemon flavoring. P>ake in a but- 
tered dish in a moderate oven until firm. Cover 



TRIED AND TRUE 83 

with a meringue made from the whites of two eggs 
beaten stiff with one-half cup of powdered sugar. 
Pile the meringue roughly over the top and color 

in the oven. 

Mrs. Mewson. 

Steamed Cottage Pudding 

}/> cup sugar 2 cups flour, after 

Whites of two eggs. sifting 

yolk of one 2 small teaspoons bak- 

-/4 cup milk ing powder 

\ l /> tablespoons butter 

Cream sugar and butter together, add beaten 
yolk, then the milk. Sift the baking powder into the 
flour, add part of this, then part of beaten whites, 
then the rest of flour and whites. Steam in two- 
quart ice cream mold from three-quarters to one 
hour. 

Sauce 

2 cups sugar l /> cup butter 

1 box strawberries 

Cream sugar and butter together. Cut up ber- 
ries with silver knife and cut into the creamed but- 
ter and sugar. Serve on hot pudding as it is sliced. 
You can use more berries if you wish, or red rasp- 
berries, peaches or other fruit. 

Mrs. William S. Crane. 

Apple Pot Pie 

5 apples 1 cup sugar 

iy 2 cup water 

Pare and quarter the apples, put in kettle greased 
with butter ; sprinkle the sugar over this ,then pour 
over water; with sieve sprinkle the least bit of flour 
over all. 

Biscuit for Above 

1 pt. flour 2 heaping teaspoons 

1 small tablespoon lard baking powder 



84 TRIED AND TRUE 

Put baking powder in flour, mix with lard, then 
wet with little water and roll and cut biscuit. Place 
on top of the apples, cover tight and boil twenty 

minutes. 

Mrs. William S. Crane. 

Jeff Davis Pudding 

3 ef^s - cups raisins or fruit 

1 cup sugar of any kind 

2]/ 2 cups flour 1 heaping teaspoon 

1 cup molasses spice and ginger 

1 teaspoon soda 1 teaspoon cream 

l / 2 cup milk tartar, dissolved 

1 cup suet or butter 

Tie in a cloth and boil for three hours. Serve 
with boiled sauce. 

Miss J. Pettigrew. Gala, Va. 

Fig Pudding 

1 cup suet 1 pound figs 

3 eggs 2 cups bread crumbs 

1 cup sugar 2 cups milk 

Wash, pick over the figs and chop the suet. P>eat 
the eggs light without separating them. Mix all 
ingredients thoroughly, turn into a well greased 
mould and cover and boil three hours. Serve hot. 

Mrs. Perry. 

Fig Budding 

6 oz. suet }/2 lb. figs 

6 oz. bread crumbs 3 eggs 

6 oz. sugar 1 coffee cup sweet milk 

1/2 teaspoon soda y\ cup Hour 

1 teaspoon cream tartar 

Chop suet very fine, also figs. If you add a little 
of the sugar or flour when chopping figs it will sep- 
arate them better. Then add rest of sugar, fine 
bread crumbs, suet, beaten eggs, milk with soda in 



TRIED AND TRUE 85 

it and flour with the cream of tartar sifted in. pour 
into greased basin and steam three hours. 

Sauce for Fig Pudding 

1 cup powdered sugar 1 cup -whipping cream 
1 tablespoon butter Wine glass sherry (or 

1 egg less) 

Cream sugar and butter together, add beaten 
egg. When ready to serve add the cream whipped, 
and enough sherry to make a delicate flavoring. 
Mrs. William S. Crane. 

Boiled Berry Pudding 

Make a moderately rich paste, roll out on a 
floured cloth, lift the whole carefully into a bowl, 
pour in blackberries or blueberries until full, close 
the crust very carefully, gather up the corners of 
cloth and tie tightly. Put into boiling water, first 
placing a saucer in bottom of kettle to avoid burn- 
ing. Boil two hours. Serve with sweet sauce. 

( A very old rule of Revolutionary times.) 

Mrs. Susan C. Hosmer. 

Old-Fashioned Baked Rice Pudding 

Half a cup of rice washed well and put in a 
double boiler with one quart of fresh milk and a 
half-cup of sugar. Let this soak half an hour, then 
put into the boiler containing the hot water, and 
place over the simmer burner. Stir occasionally. 
In about an hour add teaspoon of salt and turn into 
a pudding dish and bake in a very slow oven about 
two hours. One burner turned low will be hot 
enough after the oven is heated. If the milk is 
soaked up. add another cup. Fold in the thin brown 
crust as it forms on top, but let it finish with a nice 
crust. 

Miss Mary Mayliss. 



86 TRIED AND TRUE 

Suet Pudding 

1 cup beef suet 1 cup raisins 

1 cup molasses 2 cups flour 

1 cup sour milk 1 level teaspoon soda 

Mix soda in a little water to dissolve. Mix all 
together and steam five hours. Serve hot with sauce. 
Can be made several days ahead and warmed over. 

Mrs. A. K. Pergrin. 

Suet Pudding 

1 large cup chopped 1 teaspoon soda in 

suet molasses 

l /2 cup brown sugar 1 cup X. (.). molasses 

4 cups flour 1 cup sweet milk 

1 cup currants 2 cups raisins 

Y2 teaspoon cloves 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

1 teaspoon salt y> teaspocn nutmeg 

Steam for three hours, serve with wine, brandy 
or hard sauce. 

Mrs. C. M. Wood. 

English Plum Pudding 

l /2 lb. suet 1 glass brandy 

1 pt. sugar 2 teaspoons ginger 

1 lb. grated stale bread 2 nutmegs 

1 lb. raisins l /> pt. milk 

2 Ibs. currants A little salt 

Beat well, steam five hours. Serve with rich 
sauce. 

Miss Eliza Jones. Va. 

Plum Pudding 

1 cup suet 2 cups seeded raisins 

1 cup currants l /2 cup citron 

2 l / 2 cups flour 1 cup sour milk 

l /2 cup Xew Orleans (not thick) 

molasses 2 eggs 

l /2 teaspoon salt *4 teaspoon each, cloves. 

1 level teaspoon baking cinnamon, nutmeg, 

soda ginger 



TRIED AND TRUE 87 

Chop citron and suet fine and add the other in- 
gredients in order named, dissolving the soda in a 
tablespoonful of tepid water. Mix thoroughly. Put 
in greased mold and set in covered kettle of boiling 
water, cooking three and one-half hours. Be care- 
ful to keep boiling and put a fork under the mold to 
keep it from getting dry. 

English Plum Pudding 

1 small loaf stale l /z Ib. beef suet 

bread (shredded fine) 

1 pt. milk 1 Ib. raisins 

8 eggs 1 Ib. currants 

1 Ib. sugar 14 Ik. citron 

l/ 2 Ib. butter 1 nutmeg 

1 pt. flour 1 wine glass brandy 

Mix butter and suet, add sugar and beat to a 
cream. To this add the yolks, and when ingredients 
have been thoroughly mixed, add spices and bread, 
which has been soaked in the pint of milk until soft ; 
then add, alternately, the well-beaten whites and the 
sifted flour; last of all, the floured fruit and put into 
bucket to boil. Do not put bucket in bag. Place 
small plate in pot. put in the pudding, when water 
is tolerably hot. not boiling, as the pudding rises 
better. After it begins to boil, do not let it stop for 
eight hours and keep pot filled with hot water. 

Mrs. Theodorick A. Williams. 

English Plum Pudding Sauce 

2 eggs 2 tablespoons brandy 
T 4 Ib. butter ^2 tumbler boiling water 
l / 2 Ib. sugar 1 tumbler wine 

Cream butter and sugar and add eggs ; stir in the 
wine, brandy and water and nutmeg to taste. Boil 
a few minutes, stirring constantly. 

Mrs. Theodorick A. Williams. 



88 TRIED AND TRUE 



Bessette 



Cold Desserts 

"You can make whipped cream ; pray what relief 
Will that be to a sailor who wants beef?" 

-VV. King. 

Pineapple Cream 

1 qt. can pineapple ^4 cup cold water 

y\ cup sugar (scant) 1/2 box gelatine 

1 pt. thick cream 1 teaspoon lemon juice 

Drain the juice from the pineapple and put in 
saucepan with the sugar and simmer about ten 
minutes. Add the gelatine which has been pre- 
viously soaked in the water, then add the finely 
chopped pineapple. Remove from fire and put mix- 
ture in a cold place. Whip the cream very stiff and 
when the pineapple begins to congeal stir very 
smooth. Add the whipped cream and lemon juice. 
Fill mold ( which has been dipped in cold water) 
and pack in ice for three hours. 

Mrs. A. A. Burnand. 




Select fine, ripe gooseberries of a ripe red color. 
Stew them down to a pulp; add sugar to taste; put 
pulp through sieve and cool. Then slowly beat into 
one quart of the mixture one cup of whipped cream. 
Serve cold. 

Mrs. H. C. King. 



TRIED AND TRUE 89 

Ice Pudding 

4 eggs Juice half orange 

YZ cup granulated sugar Juice half lemon 
Wine (red or white) }A pt. thick cream 

Macaroons Y box gelatine 

Heat yolks of eggs and sugar very light. Put 
lemon and orange juice in water glass and add 
enough wine to make glass half full. Mix slowly 
with eggs and sugar. Put mixture in double boiler. 
Let it get heated through, then add soaked gelatine, 
beating constantly with Dover egg beater; boil one 
minute. Let cool, when hike-warm add whites of 
eggs which have been beaten quite stiff. Oil pud- 
ding mould and fill with alternate layers of pudding 
and dry crushed macaroons. Place in ice chest until 
next day. Serve with whipped cream around it. 

Mrs. Gerstle. 

Charlotte Russe 

]/4 box Knox gelatine ]/ 2 cup water 

2 eggs l /2 cup sugar 

!/> teaspoon vanilla 1 pt. whipped cream 

Dissolve gelatine in water, heat thoroughly, put 
it into the well beaten eggs, return to stove and let 
just come to boil. Remove from fire and stir in the 
sugar and vanilla. Stir until cold but not congealed. 
Have whipped cream ready and stir into it. 

Mrs. A. A. Burnand. 

Spanish Cream 

YZ box gelatine Y cup chopped nuts 

1 cup cream Yi CU P candied cherries 

1 cup sugar (chopped) 

Dissolve the gelatine in one pint of boiling wa- 
ter. When dissolved add sugar, nuts, fruit and 
thoroughly whipped cream. Pour into mould. 

Mrs. Seelev M. Mudd. 



90 TRIED AND TRUE 

Chocolate Blanc Mange 

}/2. box gelatine 3 pints milk 

6 eggs 8 tablespoons sugar 

2 squares chocolate 

Dissolve gelatine in one-half pint of milk. Put 
rest of milk on to boil and when boiling add grated 
chocolate. To this add the dissolved gelatine and 
cook for five minutes, stirring constantly. Pour 
the mixture on the yolks and sugar and return to 
fire, cooking for a few minutes. Set aside to cool. 
When nearly cold add the beaten whites; flavor 
with vanilla and put in moulds. 

Mrs. Theodorick A. \Yilliams. 

Almond Torte With Dates 

1 cup sugar l / 2 Ib. almonds 

6 eggs y 2 Ib. chopped dates 

1 cup bread crumbs 

Beat yolks of eggs to cream, add sugar and beat 
well. Chop nuts and dates together and add to yolks 
and sugar. Add bread crumbs mixed with baking 
powder. Fold in the whites of eggs which have 
been beaten very stiff. Bake. Serve with whipped 
cream. 

Miss Apel. 

Date and Nut Pudding 
1 cup dates, quartered 1 cup sugar 

1 cup nuts, broken 1 teaspoon baking 

2 eggs beaten together powder silted with 1 
1 tablespoon milk teaspoon Hour 

1 teaspoon vanilla Pinch salt 

Mix all dry ingredients together with the hands. 
Bake about one-half hour in ungreased pan. Serve 
cold with whipped cream. 

Mrs. Thomas Roswell Browne. 

Cafe Cream Jelly 
Use as the basis one pint of clear black coffee. 



TRIED AND TRUE 91 

Sweeten with two heaping-tablespoons of sugar, 
and add the well-beaten yolk of one egg, half a cup 
of rich cream, a few drops of almond extract, and a 
pinch of powdered cinnamon. Mix thoroughly and 
then stir in a cup of hot milk in which one ounce 
of gelatine has been dissolved. Place the jelly in a 
mixing bowl : set in a pan of ice water, stirring occa- 
sionally as it begins to congeal so that the custard 
and jelly will not separate. When of the consist- 
ency of a very thick juice, pour into a circular mould 
lined with lady fingers that are held in place and to- 
gether by a small quantity of white of egg.. When 
perfectly firm umnould on a large platter on which 
has been placed a lace paper doily, ornamenting the 
top with stars of whipped cream, sweetened and 
flavored. 

Frozen Pudding 
l l / 2 qts. milk l / 2 pt. sherry wine 

1 pt. cream 1 wine glass rum 

2 cups sugar 2 tablespoons gelatine 
2 eggs (Knox) 

l / 2 Ib. cherries l /> cup flour (very scant) 

Boil the milk. Beat eggs, flour and one cup of 
sugar together. Over this mixture pour the boiling- 
milk, return to fire and cook fifteen minutes. Re- 
move from fire and add gelatine which has been 
dissolved in a little cold milk. After all gets cold add 
the other cup of sugar, wine, rum, and then the 
cream which has been whipped and freeze. Just 
before removing dasher add the cherries. 

Mrs. Theodorick A. Williams. 

Frozen Pudding 

1 cup sugar l /> pt. flour 

Ipt. niilk 2 eggs 

Make custard and cook twenty minutes. When 
cold, add : 



92 TRIED AND TRUE 

2 tablespoons gelatine ^2 lb. crystallized 
1 cup sugar pineapple 

1 qt. cream l /2 lb. nuts 

y 2 lb. crystallized Freeze 

cherries l /2 pt. wine 

Mrs. Hunter Booker, Va. 
Creole Ice Cream 

(Serves ten) 

1 pt. cream ]/2 cup sugar 

1 qt. cream 1 cup maple syrup 

1 cup almonds }/\ teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon vanilla Caramel color 

Scald one pint cream in double boiler. Caramel- 
ize the one-half cup sugar and add to the hot cream. 
Stir until dissolved. Cool and add one quart cream, 
maple syrup and salt. Blanch and chop the almonds 
and then toast in oven to a cream color. Add va- 
nilla and enough caramel coloring to make a deep 
brown. Freeze and then put back into mould and re- 
turn to ice to ripen. 

Louise Howard. 

Peach Cream 

Mash one quart of peaches and sweeten with 
powdered sugar, add one quart cream whipped stiff. 
Stir together carefully. Place in freezer, pack in ice 
and salt and let stand three or four hours. 

-Mrs. E. P.. P.ayliss. 

Ice Cream 

4 qts. milk 4 qts. cream 

2 Ibs. sugar y 2 oz. gelatine 

2 tablespoons vanilla 

Dissolve gelatine in small amount of hot water. 
Mix all ingredients together. Pour in freezer. Turn 
slowly at first, faster as it begins to freeze which 
makes the cream swell one-third. Makes three gal- 
lons when done. 

Mrs. H. H. Walker. 



TRIED AND TRUE 93 

Peach Ice 

1 cup peach juice ^/\ cup sugar 

1 cup boiling water Juice half lemon 



teaspoon gelatine 



Dissolve gelatine in quarter cup of cold water 
and let stand thirty minutes. Pour boiling water 
over gelatine and mix with fruit. Crush fruit 
through colander. 

Mabel Clay. 

Caramel Ice Cream 

1 pt. new milk 3 eggs 

1 cup granulated y> cup shelled and 

sugar blanched almonds 

1 pt. cream 

I 'ut milk over fire in a large double boiler, add 
small pinch of salt. Separate the eggs. Whip the 
yolks with one-half cup of sugar until they are 
creamy. Put the other half cup of sugar over the 
fire in a smooth frying pan (aluminum preferred) 
and stir until it melts and turns a dark golden 
brown. P>e careful not to scorch. Then add the milk 
and stir until it is all dissolved ; stir in yolks and 
sugar and cook a minute until it thickens, being 
careful that it does not curdle. Set aside to cool. 
When partly cool stir in the whites that have been 
whipped to a stiff froth and when cool add the 
cream and freeze. 

Brown the almonds, add a sprinkle of sugar and 
let it melt over them. Chop them not too fine and 
add to the cream when it is about half frozen. Con- 
tinue to freeze as long as you can. Then remove the 
dasher and pack for about one or two hours. 

Mary Sells Green. 



94 TRIED AND TRUE 



flMes 



One, Two, Three Pastry 

1 cup ice water 2 cups butter 

3 cups flour 

\\ Hsh the butter in cold water then squeeze the 
water it working it with the spatula and dashing 
it at th, : bo\vl until every drop of water is run off. 
Sift the ilour three times, chop the butter into this 
with spatu'.i or rub it in with the fingers until it is 
like bread crumbs. Pour in the ice water all at once. 
Work in with spatula when it will leave the bowl 
in a lump. Handle as little as possible. Roll out. 
This will make three pies. This recipe never fails ; 
is "tender and true." 

Lydia F. Moir. 

Mince Meat 

2 Ibs. suet 2 Ibs. currants 

3 Ibs. seedless raisins 2 doz. large apples 
y 2 lb. citron 2 tablespoons cloves 

1 nutmeg \ l /2 pts. whiskey 

2 Ibs. beef 1 glass jelly 

2 tablespoons allspice 

Boil beef ( buy meat without any gristle or fat ) 
until tender. Cool and chop fine. Chop suet and 
apples. Put all ingredients together in crock, using 
ground spices. Let it stand several weeks. 
Each pie that is made with mince meat should have 
a tablespoon of whisky added. 

Jennie Pratte Lay ton. 
Chocolate Pie 

1 pt. milk 1 to 4 tablespoons 

1 tablespon corn starch grated chocolate 

1 cup sugar (scant) 2 eggs 

Small piece butter 



TRIED AND TRUE 95 

Line a plate with pie crust and bake, then fill 
with the following: 

, To the milk which has been heated add the corn- 
starch (which has been dissolved by rubbing into a 
little cold milk,) sugar, chocolate, the beaten yolks 
of the eggs and butter (one ounce), and pinch of 
salt. Boil all together for five minutes. While warm 
put into crusts and cover with meringue, which as 
made by adding three tablespoons of sugar * well 
beaten whites. Put in oven and brown. 

Mrs. Theodorick A. Wi Jams. 

Lemon Pie 

1 cup white sugar 1 tablespoon corn 

Yolk of 2 eggs starch 

1 lemon, juice and 1 teaspoon melted 

grated rind butter 

1 teacup boiling water 

Mix sugar and corn starch together, add well- 
beaten yolks of eggs and butter, lemon juice and 
rind ; then pour in boiling water and stir over fire 
until thick. 

Line pie plate with rich pastry and bake until 
a light brown. Put in the filling and make a me- 
ringue with the whites of two eggs and spread over 
top Bake a light brown. This is excellent and 
easily made. 

Mrs. A. K. Pergrin. 
Lemon Pie 

1 cup sugar 1 heaping tablespoon 

1 tablespoon butter flour 

1 cup boiling water 2 eggs 

Grate rind of one lemon, add juice and pulp. Save 
whites of eggs for meringue. Mix sugar, flour, rind 
~ + ~ lemon and juice together; add yolks of eggs 
beat well ; then pour over this the boiling water and 
add butter, put in sauce pan, place on stove and 
stir constantly (as it burns easily) till it boils up 
well. Pour into open shell already baked and cover 



96 TRIED AND TRUE 

with whites beaten to a froth, adding two table- 
spoons of sugar. Put in oven and brown. 

Mrs. L. C. Stephens. 

Lemon Pie 

Neaping teaspoon flour y 2 cup sugar 
1 lemon (grate the 3 yolks of eggs 

rind) Pinch of salt 

4 tablespoons water 

Cook in double boiler until thick. P>eat the 
whites and add another half cup of sugar to them 
and when the cooked part is cold add all together, 
put into the baked pie crust and brown as quickly 
as possible, leaving in the oven but a very short 
time. , 

Mrs. Charlc? F. Potter. 

Pumpkin Pie 

1 cup stewed pumpkin l / 4 teaspoon nutmeg 

2 eggs l / 2 teaspoon ginger 
1 _. cup sugar 1 cup sweet milk 

1 pinch salt l /$ teaspoon allspice 

l /4 teaspoon cinnamon 

Mix pumpkin, sugar, milk and spices and salt 
together, then eggs thoroughly beaten. Line tin 
with rich pie paste, fill with above mixture and bake 
slowly in a moderate oven one-half hour. This 
makes one pie. 

Mrs. Cora S. ilrough. 

Pineapple Pie 

1 cup powdered sugar l / 2 cup butter 

2 eggs 1 small pineapple 
Grate pineapple, beat butter and sugar together 

until creamy. Add beaten yolks of eggs and pine- 
apple. When well mixed, add the whites of eggs 
beaten to a stiff dry froth. Mix lightly and turn in- 
to a pie plate. Bake with an under crust only. 

Mrs. C. M. Wood. 



TRIED AND TRUE 97 

Mince Pie Without Meat or Apples 

1 teacup raisins, 6 crackers rolled fine 

chopped 3 cups sugar 

2/3 cups vinegar 1 cup cold water 

2 /s cups melted butter 1 teaspoon allspice 

1 teaspoon cinnamon l / 2 nutmeg 

l /2 teaspoon cloves 
Mix all together and boil ten minutes. 

Mrs. George Lawton. 

Orange Pie 

3 eggs 1 cup sugar 

1 tablespoon flour 2 tablespoons melted 

Juice of small lemon butter 

1 cup orange juice 

Mix flour with water and add to orange juice. 
Yolks of three eggs and white of one beaten to- 
gether, (the extra whites for meringue) ; juice of 
lemon, and melted butter. Bake in crust in a mod- 
erate oven until well set. Add meringue and bake 
five minutes. 

Mrs. W. O. Morton. 

Raisin Pie 

Wash thoroughly two cups each seeded and 
seedless raisins; soak several hours in cold water; 
stew until tender. Then add one cup crushed wal- 
nut meats, one-half cup sugar, two tablespoons but- 
ter, two tablespoons corn starch ; rub to a cream 
with juice and rind of one orange and one lemon 
and cook until slightly thickened. Cool and bake 
with double crust. 

Mrs. Estelle P.. Godshall. 



98 



TRIED AND TRUE 



Cakes 



1 doz. eggs 
1 Ib. butter 
4 lb. flour 
1 lb. sugar 
lb. almonds 

1 lb. dates 

2 Ibs. seeded raisins 
2 Ibs. citron 



Fruit Cake 

(Very Fine) 

1 lb. orange peel 
1 lb. lemon peel 
1 lb. conserve apricot 
1 lb. conserve cherries 
1 lb. conserve pine- 
apple 

1 tumbler brandy and 
whisky 



2 teaspoons baking powder 
Directions for Making 

Prepare the day before all the fruit and almonds 
by cutting in small pieces. Place each separately on 
plates. Dredge well with flour so it will not stick 
together. In the morning early, cream sugar and 
butter thoroughly until very light. Then add yolks 
of eggs which have first been beaten light. Beat all 
together, then add flour which should have been 
sifted several times with the baking powder 
through it. After this has been thoroughly beaten 
begin by adding fruit, one kind at a time, first hav- 
ing shaken off loose flour from fruit in a colander. 
Whatever flour sticks to the fruit is needed. If one 
has a bread mixer it will make the mixing easier : 
otherwise it must be done with the hand. After add- 
ing all the fruit add brandy, then at the very last 
the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth. This is to 
be done very carefully. 

. Have pan lined with well buttered paper. Put 
in mixture and cover with pan of same size. Have 



TRIED AND TRUE 99 

oven hot enough for baking bread with a good clear 
fire that will last till cake is done. If it should start 
to brown too soon, set a pan on top of cake pan half 
filled with water and do not disturb for fully four 
hours. Then watch baking for the next two hours, 
that it may not scorch or burn. It should not have 
much crust, and if properly done the fruit will not 
taste cooked. Can be kept indefinitely in pan in 
which baked if covered with other pan. This cake 
recipe can be divided. Makes very large cake. 

Mrs. William S. Crane. 

Fruit Cake 

1 Ib. seeded raisins 1 teaspoon cream 

1 Ib. citron tartar 

\ l /> Ibs currants ^3 tumbler wine or 

1 Ib. sugar whisky 

1 Ib. flour 2 teaspoons allspice 

1 Ib. butter 1 teaspoon cloves 

12 eggs 2 teaspoons cinnamon 

} /2 teaspoon soda 1 large grated nutmeg 

Sift flour. Take a small portion of it and rub 
through raisins ; cut citron into thin slices about an 
inch long and rub flour into it also ; wash currants 
and dry well before using; mix flour with them 
not much, only enough to put a thin coating on 
them. Have these all ready before commencing to 
mix. Cream butter and sugar. Then separate 
whites and yolks of eggs ; set the whites in a cool 
place until you have beaten the sugar and yolks 
together; grate nutmeg; after having the butter, 
sugar and eggs well beaten, whip whites of eggs, 
and mix a little with each handful of fruit. Mix the 
fruit in, a handful of raisins, then of citron, of cur- 
rants and a little of the wine. Do not pour all in at 
once, but mix in a handful at a time. Bake five hours 
in a medium oven. , 

Mrs. M. A. Dawson. 



100 TRIED AND TRUE 

Minnehaha Cake 
l / 2 cup butter 2 teaspoons baking 

1 cup sweet milk powder sifted in flour 

2y 2 cups flour 3 eggs (beaten sep- 

\ l / 2 cups sugar arately) 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Cream butter and sugar, add yolks of eggs well 
beaten, milk, flour with baking powder, flavoring, 
and last whip in stiffly beaten whites of two eggs, 
saving one white for icing. Pour batter into three- 
layer pans and bake fifteen minutes. 

Icing 

Boil one cup sugar with four tablespoons water 
till it forms soft ball in water, then pour slowly and 
beat into stiff white of egg till thick, add half cup 
chopped nuts and put on cake. 

Mrs. Cora S. Brough. 

Minnehaha Cake 

Make any layer cake and for filling take one cup 
chopped raisins, one cup chopped nuts, one cup 
sugar, and enough water to boil till it hairs. Before 
taking off the stove, stir in fruit and beaten white 
of one egg rapidly. 

Mrs. George Law ton. 

Fruit Cake 

1 Ib. flour 2 Ibs. currants 

1 Ib. sugar *4 Ib. citron 

1 Ib. butter l / 4 Ib. blanched almonds 

9 eggs 2 tablespoons mace 

l / 2 pt. whisky 1 nutmeg 

2 Ibs. raisins 

Separate eggs and add sugar to well-beaten 
yolks. Cream butter and flour and add to yolks and 
sugar. After mixing thoroughly add the well-beat- 
en whites of the eggs, then the whiskey, mace and 
nutmeg. Last of all add the well-floured fruit and 



TRIED AND TRUE 101 

bake in very slow oven from two to two and one- 
half hours. 

Mrs. Theodorick A. Williams. 

Fruit Cake 

2 Ibs. raisins after 1 cup black coffee 

seeding 1 teaspoon mace 

2 Ibs. currants 1 cloz. eggs 

2 Ibs. citron 1 Ib. flour 

\ l /2 Ibs. almonds, y 2 teaspoon cloves 

beaten fine 1 teaspoon pulverized 

1*4 Ibs. butter cinnamon 

1 Ib. brown sugar 1 teaspoon nutmeg 

1 cup dark molasses 

Soak spices over night in a tumbler full of 
brandy and wine mixed in equal proportions. 
Cream butter and sugar together, add flour and 
eggs alternately. Last of all add floured fruit. Sift 
one teaspoon of yeast powder in the flour. Brown 
the flour for the cake slightly in a moderate oven. 
Sift over again and let it cool. 

-Mrs. F. S. Fitchett. Norfolk, Va. 

Fruit Cake 

1 Ib. butter 1 Ib. white sugar 

1 Ib. flour Iv^cups molasses 

1 Ib. citron 2 Ibs. raisins 

3 Ib. currants l /2 Ib. almonds 

12 eggs 1 tablespoon cinnamon, 

1 pt. brandy pinch of other spices 

1 teaspoon soda and salt 

Small cup of thick part of strawberry jam and 
tablespoon of burnt sugar and water together. Add 
whites of eggs last. Put all the fruit in the flour. 
Bake three and one-half hours and let cool off in the 
oven. 

Mrs. E. B. Marvin. 



102 TRIED AND TRUE 

Gateau Quatre Quarte 

(Four quarter cake) 

2 eggs Their weight in butter 

Their weight in flour Their weight in sugar 

Mix thoroughly butter and sugar, then eggs, 
then flour. Bake in flat tin until crisp. 

Miss V. Simmons. 

Pecan Cake 

10 eggs 1 Ib. sugar 

1 Ib. butter 1 Ib. flour 

2 teaspoons baking !*/> M )S - raisins 
powder l /2 oz. citron cut fine 

1 Ib. pecan nut meats 1 wine glass of brandy 

1 grated nutmeg 

Cream sugar and butter, add well-beaten egg 
yolks, then the well-floured fruit and nuts 
alternately with flour and brandy. Fold in the well- 
beaten whites of eggs, and bake one hour in mod- 
erate oven. Mrs. A. K. Pergrin. 

Sugar Cake 

1 egg 3 tablespoons melted 

l /2 cup milk butter 

l/^ cups flour 2 scant teaspoons bak- 

y 2 cup sugar ing powder 

I 'inch of salt 

Stir all together and put into a square baking 
pan. 

To cover: Mix five tablespoons brown sugar. 
one-half teaspoon ground cinnamon, four table- 
spoons melted butter, pour or spread this mixture 
over the top and bake in quick oven. 

Mrs. A. L. Thompson. 
Maple Sugar Cake 

1^2 cups sugar 2 cups flour (before 

% cups milk sifting) 

1 teaspoon baking Whites six eggs 

powder 1 teaspoon lemon flav- 

}/2 cup butter oring 



TRIED AND TRUE 103 

Beat butter and sugar together to a cream ; beat 
eggs well and add half to butter and sugar, add 
milk ; sifted flour, and baking powder together, and 
stir in slowly ; add remainder of eggs and flavoring. 
Hake in two layers. Use white frosting to which 
a few drops of mapleine has been added while hot. 
Put English walnuts on top layer. 

Mrs. B. M. Sawyer. 

Devil's Food 
(Fine) 

2 eggs l /2 cup of butter 

1 teaspoon of soda dis- ^ cup of milk 

solved in tablespoon 1 teaspoon of vanilla 
boiling water 2 cups flour 

1 cup of brown sugar 

Cream the butter, add the sugar, then the eggs 
(whole or unbeaten) then the milk, then the flavor- 
ing, next the soda, and last the flour. 

Second Mixture 

1 cup grated choco- 1 cup brown sugar 

late !/> cup of milk 

Let this cook slowly, stirring occasionally. 
When dissolved, let cool and add to the first mix- 
ture, beating it hard. Bake in a moderate oven. 

-Mrs. Luke D. Phillips. 

Devil Cake 

(Custard) 

1 cup grated choco- 1 teaspoon vanilla 

late l /2 cup sweet milk 

1 cup brown sugar Yolk of one egg. 

Stir all together in granite saucepan. Bake slow- 
ly until thick and set away to cool. , 
(Cake Part) 

1 cup brown sugar 2 cups flour 

T /> c 11 ]? sweet milk 2 teaspoons baking 

2 eggs powder 

l /2 cup butter 



104 TRIED AND TRUE 

Cream butter, sugar and yolks of eggs, add the 
milk, sifted flour and white of eggs beaten stiff 
and baking powder. Beat all together, then stir the 
custard part in and bake in jelly tins. 

Filling for Devil Cake 

2 cups white sugar 10 tablespoons hot 
l /4 teaspoon cream tar- water 

tar 32 marshmallows 

Whites of three eggs 1 cup chopped walnuts 

Boil sugar, water and cream tartar until thick 
like candy. Put in marshmallows and boil up again, 
then stir in the beaten whites of eggs. \\hen al- 
most cool stir in the chopped walnuts, beat all until 
cold and spread between layers. 

Mrs. A. H. \Yiser. 

Devil's Food 
(Part 1. Custard.) 

l / 2 cake Baker's choco- l / 2 cup milk 
late 1 cup sugar 

1 egg 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Melt chocolate, add other ingredients, cook until 
thick ; cool and add flavoring. 

(Part 2. Cake.) 
1/2 cup butter 2y 2 cups flour 

3 eggs 2 teaspoons baking 
1 cup sugar, scant powder 

l /2 cup milk 

Put together as any other cake, stirring in cool 
chocolate mixture just before the beaten whites 
which are added last. Use remaining whites for 
boiled icing for filling. Mrs. A. A. Burnand. 

Delicious White Cake 

1 cup butter 2 2 /j, cups Swansdown 

1 cup milk flour 

2 teaspoons baking \ l /2 cup sugar 
powder 1 teaspoon vanilla 

\Yhites four eggs 



TRIED AND TRUE 105 

Cream butter and sugar. Sift flour and baking 
powder three times; add alternately with milk a 
little at a time ; fold in whites of eggs which have 
been beaten very stiff and ice top with any desired 
icing. 

Mrs. A. H. Wiser. 

Miss Webb's Cake 

1 cup sugar \ l /> cups flour 

2 eggs Flavoring and salt 

y 2 cup milk 1 rounding teaspoon 

l /4 cup butter baking powder 

Mary Shiel. 

Angel's Breath 

l/^ cups granulated 6 eggs (whites only) 

sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 

1 tablespoon vinegar 

Beat whites until stiff, add sugar, mixing well. 
Then the vinegar and vanilla. Put mixture in a 
tube cake pan, bake very slowly one hour. When 
done fill center with sliced peaches, strawberries, 
raspberries or bananas, and arrange some around 
edge. Serve with whipped cream a delicious des- 
sert. 

Mrs. H. A. Wilkinson. 

French Cake 

6 eggs l /2 cup butter 

6 cups white sugar (creamed) 

6 cups flour 6 level teaspoons bak- 

2 cups milk ing powder 

Mix yolks of eggs, sugar and butter. Then beat 
in five and one-half cups flour. Beat until mixture 
is very light, adding well-beaten whites of eggs ; 
then add baking powder, sifted with half cup of 
flour. Bake in layers (or any way you prefer), in a 
quick oven ; use any icing. The above recipe makes 
two large cakes. Divide quantities if you wish. 



106 TRIED AND TRUE 

"This is an old recipe and has beerr used in our fam- 
ily for many years and never known to fail." 

Mrs. R. I. Maxwell. - 
Delicate Cake 
1^4 cups granulated 1 cup milk (full and 

sugar running over) 

Y+ cup butter 1 teaspoon baking 

3^4 cups Swansdown powder 

flour Extract of almond to 

Whites of 4 eggs flavor 

Cream sugar and butter ; add baking powder to 
flour and sift four times. Add the flour and milk to 
the creamed sugar and butter alternately. Flavor 
to taste and add the whites of well beaten eggs last. 
Bake in layers. Put layers together with boiled 
icing, containing chopped blanched almonds. 

Anna V. Ray. 
Hurry Cake 
1 heaping teaspoon 1 cup flour 

baking powder 1 cup powdered sugar 

A pinch of salt 

Put through the flour sieve into mixing bowl. 
Now add piece of butter the size of an egg. Put in 
measuring cup. Melt and let it cool, then drop one 
egg in the cup, fill the cup with milk, stir a little, 
then add to the mixture in the bowl and beat well. 
Bake in two jelly tins, fifteen minutes. After the 
cake cools make the frosting: Two cups of powd- 
ered sugar, a piece of butter the size of an egg. Pour 
two tablespoons of hot water over the sugar and but- 
ter and beat to a cream. Add one-half teaspoon of 
Mapleine. Spread between the cakes and on top. 

Mrs. Luke D. Phillips. 
Mocha Coffee Cake 

(For six people) 

l /4 lb powdered sugar Yolk of one egg 
54 lb. (overweight) un-. 1 kitchen cup strong 
salted butter coffee 

Lady fingers 



TRIED AND TRUE 107 

Beat butter until it is a cream, then add sugar 
and yolk of egg and beat thoroughly. Pour very 
slowly the coffee, not too cold, in the cream almost 
drop by drop (as in making a Mayonnaise). The 
cream will absorb about one-half cup of coffee, and 
when it will not absorb any more stop beating. Put 
buttered paper around a straight form. Commence 
by layer of cream, then of lady fingers, dipping each 
biscuit quickly into the coffee and so on until there 
are several layers. Keep some of your cream until 
next day. Put all in cellar to get cold, and when 
you serve it turn it upside down on a plate and pull 
off paper. Pour over the rest of the cream in fanci- 
ful shape or smooth with knife. Nuts or other 
things may be added to ornament the top. 

Verna Wilbur Simmons. 

Lightning Cake 

Sift together one generous coffee cup of flour, 
one teacup of sugar, one teaspoon baking powder 
and a pinch of salt. Fill coffee cup one-third full 
of butter and set on stove to melt. When melted, 
break into the butter two eggs and fill the cup with 
sweet milk, add to sifted flour and sugar. Flavor, 
beat well and bake in a quick oven. 

Florence Marvin. 

Mahogany Cake 

(Custard, to be made first) 

1 cup sweet milk 2 sqrs. Baker's choco- 

late 

Put chocolate in pan, hold over stove until melt^ 
ed ; add milk and stir until mixture boils thick; re- 
move from stove and cool, add to cake batter last 
thing. 

\]/ 2 cups sugar 1 cup butter 

3 eggs l /2 cup sweet milk 

2 cups flour (sift before 1 teaspoon vanilla 
measuring) Custard 

1 level teaspoon soda 



108 TRIED AND TRUE 

Save one white for frosting, cream butter and 
sugar, add eggs, all beaten together then milk and 
flour alternately, soda to be put in flour and sifted 
together ; last, beat in custard and bake in three lay- 
ers fifteen minutes. Frost with plain boiled icing. 

Mrs. L. C. Stephens. 

1-2-3-4 Cake 

1 cup butter l l / 2 teaspoons baking 

3 cups flour powder 

1 cup milk y 2 teaspoon each of 

1 cup sugar lemon and vanilla 

4 eggs extract 

Cream butter and sugar, add eggs whole and 
beat, stir in flour and milk alternately, baking pow- 
der to be put in flour, then add flavoring. Pour bat- 
ter in loaf tin and bake slowly in moderate oven one 
hour. All depends in baking of this cake ; put on 
floor of oven for first fifteen minutes, then lift care- 
fully to first shelf to finish baking. Do not open 
oven for five minutes. 

Mrs. L. C. Stephens. 
Swedish Cake 
1 cup butter (can use 3j/> cups flour (graham, 

half cottolene) after it has been 

1 cup sour milk sifted) 

1 teaspoon soda y 4 cup grated orange 

l /2 grated nutmeg peel 

1 cup sugar 2 cups chopped raisins 

Cream sugar and butter, add fruit and mix to- 
gether. Sift all dry ingredients and put in alter- 
nately with sour milk. Bake in loaf slowly for one 
hour. This makes a fine fruit cake and very moist. 

Mrs. Cora S. Brough. 
Tipsy Cake 
(Colonial Recipe) 

Take a square of baker's sponge cake weighing a 
pound and a half. Slice into three parts, putting jelly 



TRIED AND TRUE 109 

between, leaving part without crust on top to absorb 
the wine and custard. Pour three-fourths pint 
sherry wine over cake. Fill top of cake with 
blanched almonds. 

Make two quarts of milk into custard. Add one- 
fourth pint of sherry. Just before serving, pour part 
of custard over cake. Add remainder when serving. 

Mrs. Louisa Meriwether Christian Estill, Va. 

Sponge Cake 

1 doz. eggs Juice and grated rind of 

1 pt. sugar one lemon 

1 pt. flour 

Beat eggs separately. Mix yolks, sugar, flour 
and lemon. Add the whites. 

Miss Edith Thompson. 

Xote: This recipe is one hundred years old and 
came originally from the Randolph family. 

Sponge Cake 

3 eggs 1 cup flour 

1 cup sugar 2 teaspoons baking 
5 tablespoons water powder 

Mary Shiel. 

Sponge Cake 

2 cups sugar 1 tablespoon baking 
1 cup boiling water powder 

4 eggs 3 cups sifted flour 
Cream sugar and yolks of eggs for about fifteen 

minutes, add boiling water, then flour and baking 
powder, and lastly the beaten whites. Flavor to 
taste. 

Mrs. H. H. Walker. 

Sunshine Cake 
\}/> cups sugar l /> teaspoon cream 

1 cup flour tartar 

Whites 10 eggs Yolks 6 eggs 

1 teaspoon vanilla Pinch of salt 



110 TRIED AND TRUE 

Beat yolks of eggs a little then add sugar (after 
it has been sifted four times) and beat fifteen min- 
utes then add vanilla. Beat the whites of eggs very 
stiff, add salt then add whites of eggs and flour al- 
ternately to the yolks and sugar. Bake in tube pan 
about forty minutes in a moderate oven. 

Mrs. Frances Rosecrans. 

Velvet Sponge Cake 

2 cups sugar 1 heaping teaspoon 

6 eggs baking powder in 

1 cup boiling water flour 

2 l /2 cups flour (Swans- Flavor with grated rind 
down): of lemon 

1 teaspoon lemon juice 

Beats yolks slightly, add sugar ar.d beat fifteen 
minutes. Add flavoring and lemon juice. Then add 
the beaten whites and the cup of boiling water just 
before the flour. Bake in moderate oven. It may 
be baked in layers or in individual tins. Use boiled 
frosting flavored with lemon juice. This makes 
three layers and may be put together with any fill- 
ing desired. 

Anna V. Ray. 

Genoese Sponge Cakes 

16 whole eggs 4 oz. cornstarch 

6 yolks 8 oz. butter 

1 lb. of sugar Grated rind 1 lemon 

12 oz. of flour 

Beat sugar and eggs very light, mix in flour, then 
stir in melted butter .thoroughly but gently. Bake 
slowly in medium oven. 

Vienna Chocolate Layer Cake 

}/2 lb. almond paste l / lb. chocolate, 

l /2 lb. sugar (powdered) 

l /2 lb. butter 12 yolks of eggs 

12 whites of eggs 



TRIED AND TRUE 111 

Cream, sugar and butter- with yolks. Add almond 
paste rubbed smooth with four whites and the 
chocolate ; beat other whites firm, add flour and mix 
all together gently. Hake in three layers in cool 
oven. 

Fill with nut cream or plain as you desire, and 
frost with chocolate fondant icing. 

Florentine Silver Cake 

1 Ib. sugar y teaspoon baking 

y\ lb. sweet butter powder 

1 11). flour 1 pint of egg whites 

2 oz. cornstarch Flavor rose and almond 
Cream, sugar and butter with half the whites. 

Stir in flour and baking powder, sifted, gently. Then 
fold in remainder of whites beaten to a firm froth. 
Mix well and bake in medium warm oven. 

Mrs. Thomas Roswell Browne. 

Nut Cake 

1 ... cup butter 1^4 cups flour 

1 cup sugar 4 teaspoons baking 

3 eggs powder 

Y> cup walnut meats 1 teaspoon vanilla 

l / cup milk 

Cream butter and sugar together, add milk, 
beaten eggs, flour with the baking powder sifted in, 
vanilla and walnut meats broken up, not too fine. 
Hake in muffin pan. 

Mrs. William S. Crane. 

Layer Spice Cake 

2 cups brown sugar y 2 cup butter 

1 teaspoon allspice 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

1 teaspoon cloves y 2 nutmeg (grated) 

(ground) 1 teaspoon soda (level) 

1 cup sour milk 2 eggs 

2^4 scant cups flour 

Cream butter and sugar together, add beaten 



112 TRIED AND TRUE 

eggs (reserve white of one egg for frosting), spices, 
and milk; add soda dissolved in teaspoon of water; 
sift flour and mix in well ; bake in two layers in hot 
oven. Use white boiled frosting with one cup chop- 
ped raisins between the layers. This is very good 
and never fails. Mrs. B. M. Sawyer. 

Honolulu Cake 

lj/2 cups brown sugar 3 eggs 

l /2 cup butter 2 teaspoons baking 

\ l /2 cup sifted flour powder 

l /2 cup milk 

Chocolate Mixture 

8 teaspoons grated 5 teaspoons milk 

chocolate 1 teaspoon vanilla 

3 teaspoon white sugar 

Mix chocolate, white sugar and milk together. 
If not quite thin enough, add a little of the half-cup 
of milk to be used in the cake, and vanilla. Roll 
brown sugar and cream with the half-cup butter, 
add eggs one at a time (do not beat first) ; add milk. 
then chocolate mixture, lastly the flour with baking 
powder sifted into it. Bake in three layers. 

Cream Filling for Honolulu Cake 

1 cup granulated White of one egg 
sugar 1 box ripe strawberries 
Beat all together one half hour until very stiff. 

The longer beaten the better. 

Mrs. William S. Crane. 

Spice Cake 

2 cups sugar, white l /2 cup butter 

2 cups thick sour milk 3 cups flour, measured 
1 level tablespoon soda before sifting 

1 teaspoon cinnamon l /2 teaspoon cloves 
1 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon nutmeg 

l /2 cup citron and 1 cup English walnuts 

orange peel broken up fine 

1 cup seeded raisins 



TRIED AND TRUE 113 

Method 

Mix sugar and butter together then half of the 
milk and half of the flour, then add the tablespoon 
of soda to the rest of the flour and so on until all of 
the ingredients are in. Bake in a cake pan with tube 
in the center and in moderate oven for one hour, or 
until done. 

Mrs. Neil C. Murray. 

Spice Cake 

1 cup butter 2 cups brown sugar 

1 cup sour milk 2 scant teaspoons soda. 

3 eggs 1 teaspoon each cloves, 
Pinch of salt nutmeg, cinnamon 

2 heaping cups flour 
Add beaten whites of eggs last. 

Mrs. E. B. Marvin. 

Chocolate Spice Cake 

2 cups granulated 2 l / 2 cups flour 
sup'ar 2 heaping teaspoons 

4 eggs baking powder 
1 cup milk 1 level teaspoon 
1 sq. Baker's chocolate cinnamon 

]/2 cup butter l /z teaspoon cloves 

Cream butter and sugar and add the whites of 
two eggs and the yolks of four beaten separately, 
saving the other two whites for icing. Add milk, 
sifted flour, baking powder and spices. Mix all 
together thoroughly and then add chocolate melted 
in cup over hot water. Bake in layers. 

Mrs. J. A. Burton. 

Spice Cake 

1 cup sugar 2]/ 4 cups pastry flour 

y 2 cup butter (scant) 2 teaspoons baking 
Y+ cup water powder 

Flavor lemon or orange Whites of three eggs 

extract 1 teaspoon nutmeg 

1 teaspoon cinnamon 1 teaspoon allspice 



114 TRIED AND TRUE 

Cream butter and sugar, add water, then flour 
and baking powder and well beaten whites of eggs ; 
then add flavoring. Take out about one-quarter of 
the dough and to it add spices. Then pour in loaf 
cake pan alternately some of the spiced dough and 
then the white dough until all is used. Bake about 
one hour. 

Miss Jessie L. Coulter. 

Chocolate Cake 

(With spice) 
\Y> cups sugar 1 teaspoon soda 

1 cup sour cream 2 eggs 

y 2 cup Baker's choco- }/> cup butter 

late, grated 2 cups flour, sifted 

1 teaspoon cinnamon three times 

1 teaspoon cloves 

White icing with chopped nuts makes a delicious 
cake. Jane T. Faroat. 

Chocolate Cake 

l /> cup butter ]/, cup sugar, 

l / 2 cup grated Baker's (granulated) 

sweet chocolate 2 eggs 

1 teaspoon baking 1 cup flour 

powder 1 teaspoon vanilla 

l /2 cup sweet milk 

Cream butter and sugar. Beat eggs very light, 
add the milk and then put with the creamed butter 
and sugar. Have flour, grated chocolate and bak- 
ing powder in sieve. Add this, and last of all the 
vanilla. This makes two layers. 

Mrs. Arthur Lowe Wright, Jr. 

Icing for Chocolate Cake 

1 egg 5 tablespoons Baker's 

YT, cup boiling water sweet chocolate 

1 cup white sugar (grated) 

1 teaspoon vanilla 



TRIED AND TRUE 115 

Put sugar and water in pan and cook until it 
threads from spoon. Have white of the egg beaten 
stiff, add slowly the hot syrup, then the grated 
chocolate, then the vanilla. Spread cake layers 
quickly. Very good. 

Mrs. Arthur Lowe Wright, Jr. 

Oregon Prune Cake 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon (scant) 

3 eggs baking powder 

1 small teaspoon soda 1 cup stewed prunes 

2 cups flour y 2 nutmeg and very 
y> cup butter little ground cloves 

5 tablespoons buttermilk 

Heat butter and sugar together, then the beaten 
yolks of the eggs. Add the sour milk and soda, then 
add the flour, after which stir in the spices, and the 
prunes which have been seeded and finely cut. 
Lastly fold in lightly the beaten whites of eggs, 
over which the baking powder has been sprinkled. 
Bake in layers. Put together with white frosting. 

White Frosting 

One cup of sugar barely moistened with water, 
boil until it threads, pour into beaten white of one 
egg and stir until creamy. 

Mrs. A. L. Thompson. 

Apple Sauce Cake 

\ l /2 cups apple sauce 1 cup white sugar 

Pinch of salt 1 cup seedless raisins 

Butter size of an egg l /> teaspoon allspice 

l /2 teaspoon cinnamon 1 teaspoon soda 

2 cups flour 

Apple sauce must not be thick nor thin, but 
medium. While hot add butter, then sugar. Stir 
well. Then add salt and raisins. Stand aside until 
cool. Then spices are added, lastly add flour into 



116 TRIED AND TRUE 

which soda has been sifted. Butter cake pan well 
and sprinkle with flour. Bake one hour. 

Mrs. J. E. Quinn. 

Marble Cake 
(White Part) 

2 cups white sugar 1 scant cup butter 

2 teaspoons baking Whites seven eggs 

powder 3 cups flour 

1 cup sweet milk 

Cream butter and sugar together, then add eggs 
(beaten stiff), gradually add flour in which baking 
powder has been sifted. 

(Dark Part) 

1 cup brown sugar y> cup sour milk or 

\ l /2 teaspoons soda cream 

1 teaspoon each, cin- l / 2 cup butter 
namon, cloves and Yolks seven eggs 
nutmeg 5 cups flour 

1 cup syrup ( dark) 

Cream sugar and butter, add eggs, then syrup, 
add spices. Dissolve soda in milk or cream (which- 
ever is used), then add flour. Butter cake pan well 
and sprinkle with flour. 

This cake can be formed in layers or loaf. When 
loaf is preferred, drop into pan a spoonful of light, 
then dark, and so on until bottom of pan is covered. 
Continue same on top until all is used. 

Mrs. J. E. Quinn. 

Himmel Torte (Cake) 

l /2 lb. butter 1 teaspoon baking 

Yolks of three eggs powder 

j4 lb. sugar l / 2 lb. flour 

Roll out and put into three layers. Beat whites of 
three eggs. Mix into them six ounces of powdered 
sugar, one quarter pound chopped almonds and a 
little cinnamon. Spread this mixture on top of the 
layers and bake. 



TRIED AND TRUE 117 



COMPLIMENTS 
OF 



The First National Bank of Los Angeles 



Filling 

One cup of sour cream. Add sugar and vanilla 
to taste. Spread whipped cream over the top of the 
cake. Miss Apel. 

FILLINGS 
Chocolate Filling 

1 large tablespoon 3 heaping tablespoons 

hot water chocolate 

1 liberal slice butter 1 cup powdered sugar 

Cream sugar and butter. Add chocolate dis- 
solved in hot water. Beat until stiff enough to 
spread. Mrs. Treat. 

Rich Filling for Layer Cake 

Whites of three eggs beaten stiff with two cups 
of powdered sugar. Chop one cup of seeded raisins, 
one cup of walnuts and one-half cup of citron. Add 
juice of one lemon. Spread icing on the cake, then 
the mixture. Florence Marvin. 

Strawberry Filling for Layer Cake 

Put white of one egg in good-sized dish ; then 
add one cup of granulated sugar and cup of straw- 
berries after being washed and drained perfectly 
dry. Crush the strawberries a little with a fork and 
then beat all together with egg until quite stiff. Four 
layers of filling. Mrs. J. A. Burton. 



118 TRIED AND TRUE 



$3reabs, flDuffins, Biscuits 
anb (Sribble Cakes 



"Here is bread, which strengthens man's heart, 
and therefore is called the staff of life." 

Matthew Henry. 

Yeast Rolls 

1 qt. flour 1 tablespoon lard 

3 egg's l / 2 cake yeast 

1 tablespoon sugar Pinch of salt 

Mix all together, and if too stiff add a little warm 
milk or water. Set to rise, and when light make into 
rolls and set to rise a second time. Yeast bread is 
better made as soft as it can be handled. 

Mrs Baker P. Lee, Hampton, Va. 

French Rolls 

1 qt. flour 1 tablespoon yeast 

2 eggs powder 

Butter the size of an egg Enough milk to mix 

Salt to taste 

Roll with hands in pieces the size of your finger. 
Take two pieces and squeeze together at each end. 
Bake in quick oven. 

Miss Eliza Jones, Va. 

Parker House Rolls 

3 cups sifted flour 1 heaping teaspoon 

YZ pt. milk lard 

1 tablespoon sugar YI yeast cake dissolved 

1 teaspoon salt in ^ cup warm water 

Make hole in flour and put in milk (scalded >, 



TRIED AND TRUE 119 

sugar, salt, lard and yeast. Let stand four or five 
hours. Mix well with spoon. Let stand three hours 
longer. Put on floured board and roll half inch 
thick. Brush over with melted butter. Cut and 
fold and put in pans. Let stand about two hours. 
Bake in hot oven twenty minutes. 

Mrs. Post. 
Pulled Bread 

Take loaf of cream bread. Cut off crust and put 
in a bread tin. Cover with another one and place in 
oven until thoroughly warmed or steamed. Remove 
from oven and with a silver fork carefully pull it 
into narrow strips, then place on pie tin, put in oven 
until brown and crisp. Nice to serve with soup. 
Mrs. William S. Crane. 

"Bread" 

2 teacups flour 2 teaspoons baking 

A little salt powder 

1 small cup sugar 1 cup sweet milk 

1 egg 1 cup chopped nuts 

Let rise one-half hour. Bake slowly one hour. 

Sara L. Clark. 

Southern Cinnamon Buns 

1 cup sugar \}/ 2 teaspoon baking 

1 egg powder 

Piece of butter size of 1 cup milk 

egg 2 cups flour 

A little nutmeg Pinch of salt 

Mix the flour, sugar, baking powder, then add 
milk, eggs and butter, beat up quickly, pour in pan, 
mix about one-half cup sugar and teaspoon of cin- 
namon and sprinkle on top, then bake. 

Mrs. B. F. Novioch. 

Hot Cross Buns 

4 cups flour l / 2 grated nutmeg 

1 cup warm milk l / 2 cake yeast 

l /2 cup sugar . 2 eggs 

l /4 cup butter and lard 



120 TRIED AND TRUE 

Melt the butter in the milk, beat the whites and 
yolks of the eggs separately, and add all to the flour ; 
then knead well. The dough should be very light. 
Let it rise over night. When ready to bake, break 
off pieces about the size of an egg, work into rather 
flat thin cakes, and place them in buttered tins. 
Place the cakes about one-half inch apart, cover the 
pans and set in a warm place to rise. When they 
have about doubled in size cut a cross in the centre 
of each, not too deep, and put in a moderate oven to 
bake. They should bake in about twenty-five 
minutes. 

Miss M. W. Foreman, Va. 

"Shearing" Buns 

Boil one pint milk. Take from fire, put in four 
ounces of butter, cool a little, add rV.nr enough for 
a thick batter, two-thirds cup yeast, a little salt. 

Set to rise over night. In the morning work in 
two beaten eggs, one and one-half cups sugar, hand- 
ful of currants, flour enough for moderately stiff 
batter. Set to rise again four or five hours. Make 
up into cakes with your hands, place in pan and let 
rise again till very light. When done and while hot, 
brush the tops with white of egg beaten up with 
sugar. 

(Always carried to the sheep-shearings on Nan- 
tucket Commons in the old days.) 

Mrs. Susan C. Hosmer. 

Sally Lunn 
1 cup butter and lard 4 tablespoons of sugar 

mixed 1 cup sweet milk 

4 eggs 1 yeast cake 

5 cups flour 

Stir one yeast cake into one cup of hike-warm 
water, stir this into dry flour, add the milk and but- 
ter which have been slightly warmed together, then 
the yolks of the eggs, which have been well beaten 
with the sugar, then the well-be'aten whites, having 



TRIED AND TRUE 121 

it stiff enough to drop from the spoon leaving it 
dry. Beat hard and set to rise. After a few hours, 
when it has risen, beat down and let rise again, 
after which set to rise in a well-greased pan and 
when it has doubled itself, bake slowly for an hour. 

Mrs. Joseph Haw, Va. 

Virginia Egg Bread 

1 pt. corn meal Milk sufficient to make 

1 pt. boiling water a thin batter 

1 tablespoon lard 3 eggs 

2 teaspoons baking powder 

Scald the meal with boiling water and let stand 
until cold. Add milk, lard, salt, baking powder and 
eggs beaten separately. Bake in muffin pan or a 
pudding dish in a hot but slow oven for about a half 
an hour. 

Mrs. Baker P. Lee. 

Bannock 

1 qt. milk 1 or 2 tablespoons 

5 eggs sugar 

l / 2 pint corn meal 1 even teaspoon salt 

Boil the milk, turn gradually on the meal, stirring 
carefully to avoid lumps. When mixed to a smooth, 
thin paste, put on the fire and boil, stirring all the 
time, until well thickened. Let it cool till blood- 
warm, add the well-beaten eggs, sugar and salt. 
Bake in buttered dish three-quarters of an hour, un- 
til it rises in the dish and becomes brown. Served 
with butter. 

Mrs. Susan C. Hosmer, Nantucket, Mass. 

Corn Bread 

1 cup sour milk 1 cup white flour 

24 cup yellow corn meal 1 tablespoon shorten- 
l /> teaspoon soda ing 

1 egg 1 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons sugar 



122 TRIED AND TRUE 

Beat the sour milk well with egg-beater, also 
beat the egg thoroughly. Then add the other in- 
gredients, first heating the lard or butter in the bak- 
ing pan which serves to grease the pan. Then pour 
the mixture in pan and bake about twenty minutes. 
Alary Louise Wood, Florence, Colorado. 

Rice Corn Bread 

6 large spoons of yel- 1 heaping teaspoon 
low cornmeal lard 

2 eggs 1 cup boiled rice 

1 heaping teaspoon 1 heaping teaspoon 

baking powder butter 

1 tablespoon sugar y 2 cup water 

1 teaspoon salt y 2 cup flour 

l /2 cup cold milk 

Mix rice and cornmeal, add milk; mix baking 
powder with white flour, add sugar and salt and 
beat yolks and whites of eggs and add last. Should 
have consistency of cake dough. Place large piece 
of lard in hot baking pan enough so it will run up 
on to sides of pan when batter is poured in. 

Mrs. M. A. Davvson. 

Corn Cake 

1 cup milk 2 heaping teaspoons 

\ l /4 cup flour baking powder 

3 teaspoons melted Y\ cup cornmeal 
butter 1 egg 

1 teaspoon sail 2 tablespoons sugar 

Mix meal, flour, salt and baking powder together. 
Add sugar, egg and cup of milk, beat well and add 
melted butter. Bake in hot oven. 

Mrs. Sawyer. 
Love Puffs 

1 pt. flour l / 2 teaspoon baking 

2 eggs powder 

1 pt. milk 
One light teaspoon melted lard added to batter. 



TRIED AND TRUE 123 

Grease the muffin or gem pans and bake in quick 
oven. 

Mrs. Breckinridge, Va. 

Rice Muffins 

1 pt. meal (scalded) 1 teaspoon baking 

1 teacup thoroughly powder 
boiled rice 1 teacup milk 

2 eggs beaten in bat- Salt to taste 

ter Butter size of walnut 

Bake in quick oven in well-buttered tins. 

Mrs. C. J. Jones, Norfolk, Va. 

Date Muffins 

2 eggs 24 cup milk 

\ l /> tablespoons butter 2 teaspoons baking 
l l /2 cups flour powder 

24 teaspoon nutmeg 1 cup chopped dates 

Vz cup sugar l /> teaspoon salt 

Cream butter and sugar, add yolks of eggs, milk, 
flour sifted with baking powder, spice, salt and dates, 
lastly adding whites stiffly beaten. Bake in good 
oven one-half hour. 

Mrs. Cora S. Brough. 

Muffins 

2 eggs 1 tablespoon sugar 

1 tablespoon melted 24 cup of sweet milk 
butter 1 heaping teaspoon 

2 cups of flour baking powder 
Beat eggs well and add sugar and butter. Sift 

flour and baking powder together and add alter- 
nately with milk. 

Mrs. A. K. Pergrin. 

Cornmeal Muffins 

(Southern Style) 

1 pint white corn meal 1 heaping teaspoon 
Lump of lard size of an baking powder 

egg 2 eggs 

1/2 teaspoon salt 



124 TRIED AND TRUE 

Put lard in pans to get hot. Have plenty of boil- 
ing water. Pour over corn meal working out all 
lumps until smooth and the consistency of cake 
dough, break in your eggs, add salt and beat to- 
gether, add hot grease and lastly the baking powder ; 
have your tins well greased and hot. Pour in your 
mixture, leaving room to rise and bake in quick oven 
until well browned. They should be crusty outside, 
soft inside. Mrs. Eva M. Wilkinson. 

Muffins 

1 egg 1 large tablespoon but- 
Salt ' ter 

2 teaspoons baking 2 cups flour 

powder 1 cup milk 

2 tablespoons sugar 

Beat the egg well, add the salt and sugar, add 
three-quarters of the milk and all of the flour, then 
the melted butter, beat well, have the muffin pans 
well-greased and warm, add the baking powder and 
the rest of the milk to the batter, stir carefully ; put 
into the warm pans and bake in a rather quick oven. 

Mary E. Bayliss. 

Virginia Cream Muffins 

5 eggs, yolks and 1 teaspoon yeast 

whites beaten sep- powder 

arately Flour enough to make 

1 pt. cream it like fritter batter 

Pinch of salt 

Bake in muffin tins. To be eaten as soon as 
baked. 

Mrs. Baker P. Lee, Hampton, Va. 

Breakfast Muffins 

2 l /2 cups flour Pinch of salt 

1 teaspoon baking 2 well-beaten eggs 

powder 1 tablespoon melted 

l l /2 cups sweet milk butter 

Mix and bake in gem pans fifteen minutes. 



TRIED AND TRUE 125 

Bran Cake 

1 cup sifted flour 2 cups bran 

3 teaspoons baking 2 tablespoons sugar 
powder 1 cup milk 

1 egg 1 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons butter 

Sift the flour with salt, sugar and baking powder, 
add milk, beaten egg and bran. Beat thoroughly. 
Then beat in the butter, pour into pan. Bake in a 
hot oven. 

-Mrs. H. C. King. 

Health Bran Bread 

4 cups bran 1 cup sugar 

2 cups flour 1 teaspoon salt 
\ l /2 cups milk 2 eggs 

2 tablespoons baking Piece butter size of an 
powder egg 

1 cup black molasses 

Sift the flour and mix with bran (Health bran 
that comes in boxes preferred). Add molasses, 
sugar, salt, baking powder and eggs. Stir the mix- 
ture thoroughly, adding the milk slowly and melted 
butter last. Pour in well-greased pans and bake 
slowly in moderate oven. 

Mrs. Baker P. Lee. 

Southern Rice Bread 
2 cups cooked rice 2 eggs 

1 heaping teaspoon ]/ 2 cup corn meal 

baking powder Salt 

1 cup sweet milk 

Beat the eggs separately, mix the whites in with 
rice. Beat yolks and mix with milk, add the rice, 
meal, baking powder and salt. Have a pan well but- 
tered and very hot before you put in bread ; then 
bake for thirty minutes. 

Miss C. Dilland. 



126 TRIED AND TRUE 

Brown Bread 

1 qt. sour milk 1 heaping teaspoon 

1 heaping cup of seed- soda 

less raisins y 2 Ib. black molasses 

4 cups graham flour 

Mix milk and molasses, and add the flour and 
raisins last. Bake in a moderate oven. 

M. S. Johnson. 

Steamed Brown Bread 

One cup each rye, graham and corn meal, one 
cup sour, two cups sweet milk, half cup molasses, 
two eggs, one teaspoon soda, one teaspoon baking 
powder, steam four hours. For a pudding raisins can 
be added and serve with a rich sauce. 

Mrs. Hewson. 

Steamed Brown Bread 

\Y^ cup graham flour 1 cup wheat flour 

Y? cup corn meal 1 rounded teaspoon 

\ l /2 cups milk soda 

l / 2 cup molasses 

Steam four hours. It cooks well in two-quart ice 
cream mould. It may be served as a pudding with 
maple sugar fondant put on the hot bread and cov- 
ered with thick cream. 

Mrs. William S. Crane. 

Scotch Short Bread 

2 Ibs. flour 1 Ib. best butter 

l / 2 Ib. sugar (scant) 

Wash particles of salt from butter. Rub this and 
the sugar to a cream as for loaf cake. Have the 
flour dry and slightly warm. Mix this into the 
creamed butter and sugar lightly and gradually with 
the hand, until all the ingredients are thoroughly 
incorporated. The longer it is kneaded the better it 
will be. 

Lay on a board, press into sheets nearly half an 



4 



TRIED AND TRUE 127 

inch thick with the hand, as rolling has a tendency 
to toughen it. Cut into such shapes as you like, ob- 
long or square cards. Prick or stamp pattern on 
top Scotch thistle, if you can. Bake in a moderate 
oven until crisp and good yellow brown. 

Mrs. Arthur L. Wright. 

Nut Bread 

1 egg 1 cup granulated 

1 very full cup sweet sugar 

milk 4 cups flour (scant) 

heaping teaspoons 1 teaspoon salt 

baking powder 1 cup nuts 

Beat egg and sugar, add milk. Sift four cups of 
flour, baking powder and salt together into the 
batter. Add nuts last. Sprinkle a little of the 
flour over the nuts. Put mixture into the pan in 
which it is to be baked and let it stand fifteen min- 
utes ; then bake slowly one hour, being very care- 
ful not to allow to burn on the bottom. 

Airs. Arthur L. Wright. 

Virginia Rice Batter Bread 

1 cup corn meal 2 cups cooked rice 

scalded with boiling 2 eggs 

water 2 level teaspoons bak- 

1 pt. milk ing powder 

Water added if not very 1 tablespoon melted 

thin lard or butter 
1 level teaspoon salt 

Into the scalded meal add milk, salt and melted 
lard, then well-beaten eggs. Then add rice and 
lastly beat in the baking powder. Have the pan in 
which it is to be baked very hot with spoonful of 
hot lard in it, and bake in hot oven twenty minutes. 
A Virginia breakfast dish. 

Lucy H. Guerrant. 



128 TRIED AND TRUE 

Spoon Bread 

1 pt. milk Small teacup corn meal 

YZ teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon sugar 

Level tablespoon butter 4 eggs 

Let milk and corn meal boil. Add sugar, salt and 
butter. When cool add eggs beaten separately. 
Bake thirty minutes. 

Mrs. Post. 

Tea Biscuits 

\ l /2 cups sifted flour 1 level teaspoon bak- 

1 level teaspoon salt ing powder 

YZ teaspoon soda Lard size of small egg 

Put salt, soda and baking powder in the flour. 
Mix well then add lard; lastly enough sour milk to 
make a soft dough. Roll about three-quarters inch 
thick ; cut and bake in quick oven. 

Anna V. Ray. 

Beaten Biscuit 

2 pts. flour 1 large tablespoon of 

1 teaspoon of salt lard 

t Mix into a very stiff dough with equal parts of 
sweet milk and water. Beat thirty minutes with an 
axe kept for the purpose, until soft and perfectly 
smooth. 

Miss Minnie Ross, Va. 

Biscuits 

2 cups flour 1 cup milk 

2 teaspoons baking 2 tablespoons butter 

powder (rounding) 

1 teaspoon salt 

Sift flour, baking powder and salt together, then 
rub in with fingers the butter, then with knife stir 
in the milk until to consistency of biscuit dough : 
cut in rounds, bake in hot oven. 

Mrs. Sawyer. 



TRIED AND TRUE 129 

Popovers 

l /2 cup flour 2 eggs 

1 cup milk Pinch salt 

Ikitter size walnut 

Drop the unbeaten eggs into sifted flour in bowl 
and beat well together. Add salt, then gradually the 
milk and melted butter. Heat muffin pans, bake in 
hot oven. Make one dozen. 

Mrs. William S. Crane. 

Waffles 

One pint of milk, one pint of flour, one teaspoon 
of melted butter, one teaspoon of sugar, a little salt, 
and two teaspoons of baking powder. Break an egg 
into the flour, after adding sugar and salt, add milk 
gradually, beating it in with the egg; then add but- 
ter and lastly baking powder, beating hard. Bake 
quickly on hot irons. 

Mrs. W. J. A. Gumming, Va. 

Batter Cakes 

1 pt. flour A little salt 

1 teaspoon baking Yolks of two eggs 

powder Whites of three eggs 

1 cup sweet milk 

Beat yolks of eggs, add milk, then flour and bak- 
ing powder. Then beaten whites lightly folded in. 
Bake on hot greased griddle. 

Miss Jessie Coulter. 

Potato Pancakes 

(German Style) 

6 or 7 large potatoes 2 eggs 
1 heaping tablespoon 1 heaping teaspoon 

flour salt 

Peel and grate potatoes. Add eggs well beaten, 
flour and salt. Stir all well together. Fry as other 
pancakes, using more lard. Turn often until well 
clone and crisp. 

Mrs. A. K. Penrrin. 



130 TRIED AND TRUE 

Potato Cakes 

(Puffert) 

3 potatoes Enough flour to make a 

1 onion batter 

1 egg 1 heaping teaspoon 

A small quantity milk baking powder 

1 teaspoon salt 

Grate raw potatoes, and fry like griddle cakes in 
a little lard. 

Miss Apel. 

Gingerbread 

l /2 cup dark brown y 2 cup butter 

sugar 2 l /2 cups flour 

1 cup molasses l /2 teaspoon cinnamon 

l / 2 teaspoon ginger 2 level teaspoons soda 

l /> teaspoon cloves 3 eggs 

1 cup boiling water 

Mix sugar and butter together, then the hot wa- 
ter with soda in the water, add the flour and spices. 
To this add the eggs well beaten, and cook about 
forty minutes in a moderate oven. 

Mrs. Neil C. Murray, St. Paul, Minn. 

Gingerbread 

y 2 cup butter (or drip- l / 2 cup sugar 

pings) l / 2 cup sour milk 

l / 2 cup New Orleans 2 eggs 

molasses l / 2 teaspoon cinnamon 

\ l / 2 cups of flour 1 level teaspoon soda 

l /2 teaspoon ginger 

Cream butter and sugar, add pinch of salt, add 
eggs, sour milk, spices, molasses and beat thorough- 
ly, then add flour with soda. Pour in buttered 
pan and bake slowly in moderate oven thirty 
minutes. 

Mrs. L. C. Stephens. 



TRIED AND TRUE 131 

Gingerbread 

2 cups molasses 1 cup sugar 
YI cup butter 2 eggs 

\y 2 teaspoons baking 3 cups flour 

soda 1 teaspoon each, allspice 

1 teaspoon ginger and cloves 

1 cup of cold water 

Cream butter and sugar. Add well-beaten eggs 
and molasses. Dissolve soda in tablespoon of hot 
water and add to mixture ; then put in cold water 
and add flour and spices. This will make two cakes. 

Mrs. A. K. Pergrin. 

Soft Gingerbread 

1 cup treacle 1 tablespoon ground 

1 cup sour milk ginger 

3 eggs well beaten 1 tablespoon baking 
Pinch of pepper powder 

1 cup brown sugar 1^ pounds flour 

% cup butter 

Work the butter and sugar to a cream ; then add 
the treacle, then the eggs gradually, then one and 
one-quarter pounds flour to form a stiff batter. Add 
a cup of well-washed raisins, if so desired. Bake in 
a slow oven about one hour. 

Mrs. Henry Clay King. 

Soft Gingerbread 

1 cup butter 4 eggs beaten sep- 
3 cups flour arately 

2 teaspoons soda 1 tablespoon each of 
1 cup molasses ginger, cinnamon 

1 cup brown sugar and allspice mixed 

Mix all ingredients except eggs, thoroughly. 
Then add eggs last. Put in greased pans and bake 
until done. 

Mrs. E. P. Johnson. 



132 TRIED AND TRUE 

Gingerbread 

1 cnp sugar 1 egg 

1 cup shortening 1 level tablespoon 

(more lard than ginger 

butter or part chick- 1 teaspoon cinnamon 
en fat tried out is 1 cup boiling water 

very good) 1 scant tablespoon 

2 l / 2 cups flour (before soda 

sifting) Pinch salt 

1 cup molasses 

Be sure and mix in this order. Cream sugar and 
shortening, add beaten egg, molasses, ginger and 
cinnamon, salt, flour, last one cup boiling water with 
the soda in the water. Stir until quite thin. Bake 
in plow oven. Makes two good-sized cakes. 

Mrs. \\ illiam S. Crane. 

Ginger Snaps 

1 Ib. butter 6 eggs beaten vcry 
\ l /2 Ibs. sugar, granu- light 

lated 1 teaspoon mixed 

2 Ibs. flour cloves and cinnamon 

1 tablespoon ginger 

Roll as thin as wafer dough. Cut into small, 
round cakes. Bake crisp. Let them cool before put- 
ting away or they will soften. This makes a large 
quantity. 

Mrs. Arthur L. Wright. 

Drop Ginger Cakes 

1 cup molasses (New 3 cups flour 
Orleans) l / 2 cup water 

l /2 cup butter 1 teaspoon soda 

1 teaspoon ginger 

Put the molasses in first then the soda and ginger 
and butter, then add the flour. Beat thoroughly, 
then grease your pan and drop by spoonfuls and 
bake. 

Mrs. B. F. Xovioch. 



TRIED AND TRUE 133 

English Tea Cakes 

2 eggs 1 teaspoon baking 

f /2 teaspoon almond ex- powder 

tract 1 cup powdered sugar 

]/ 2 cup milk 1 cup pastry flour 

J4 teaspoon salt 

Beat eggs and sugar together, add flavoring and 
flour sifted with baking powder and salt. Beat until 
smooth and then beat in quickly the milk which has 
been heated until scalding hot. Bake in gem pans. 

Mrs. H. C. King. 

Oatcakes 

1 egg y 2 cup butter 

1 tablespoon sugar 2 cups oatmeal 

1 cup white flour 2 teaspoons baking 

1 teaspoon salt powder 

A little milk, enough to moisten so that you can 
roll out. Cut in squares and bake in moderate oven. 

Carolyn Hewson. 

Oatmeal Macaroons 

1 cup white sugar 1 tablespoon of baking 

2 large breakfast cups powder 

rolled oats 1 teaspoon of almond 

2 eggs extract 

1 tablespoon of butter l /2 teaspoonful of salt 
Beat the egg well, add the other ingredients, beat 

the batter thoroughly. Drop pieces the size of a 
walnut, on well buttered tins, about two inches 
apart. Bake in quick oven, and leave on the tins a 
few minutes before removing. 

Carolyn Hewson. 
Oatmeal Crisps 

3 cups rolled oats 2 cups flour 

2 cups sugar 1 cup raisins 

2 eggs 1 teaspoon soda 

1 cup butter and lard, 5 teaspoons milk 
melted 1 teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon cinnamon 



134 TRIED AND TRUE 

Place the dry ingredients in large mixing bowl, 
pour the liquid ingredients into the dry and mix 
thoroughly with the hand. Let the dough stand fif- 
teen minutes if convenient. Drop by teaspoonful, 
two inches apart, on well-greased pan and bake in 
a slow oven. Mrs. E. B. Bayliss. 

Rock Cookies 

1 cup butter 1 cup dates 

\ l / 2 cups sugar 3 eggs 

3 cups sifted flour 1 tablespoon warm 

1 teaspoon cinnamon water or sherry 

1 teaspoon soda 1 teaspoon cloves 

2 cups English walnuts 

Cream butter and sugar. Add beaten eggs, spice, 
the walnuts cut, dates chopped, flour, soda dissolved 
in the warm water or sherry. Make a stiff batter. 
Drop with a teaspoon on buttered pan and bake. 
Will keep a long time in stone far. 

Mrs. William S. Crane. 

Rocks 

1 small cup butter 1 teaspoon baking 

3 eggs powder 

1 cup currants l /\ teaspoon each, nut- 

4 cups of flour m eg, cinnamon and 
1 wine glass of wine cloves 

or brandy 2 cups sugar 

1 cup chopped walnuts 

Cream butter and sugar, beat in eggs one at a 
time, add fruit, flour and spices alternately with 
brandy or wine. Drop by teaspoonful on greased 
pans and bake in moderate oven. 

Mrs. A. K. Pergrin. 

Rocks 

\ l / 2 cups brown sugar 1 cup nuts 

\ l / 2 cups raisins 3 eggs beaten sep- 

(chopped) arately 



TRIED AND TRUE 135 

3 cups flour 1 teaspoon cloves 

1 cup butter 1 teaspoon allspice 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Do not roll but drop a teaspoonful on buttered 
tin. Sara L. Clark. 

Ginger Cookies 
1 cup sugar 1 cup butter 

1 cup molasses J/> cup cold coffee 

2 even teaspoons soda 1 teaspoon ginger 

1 teaspoon cloves 2 teaspoons cinnamon 

Flour enough for a stiff dough. Knead hard. 
Roll very thin. Bake in quick oven. 

Florence Marvin. 
Almond Cookies 

y lb. butter \ l / 2 Ibs. ground almonds 

5 eggs 1 tablespoon vanilla 

\ l /2 Ibs. sugar 

Cream butter and sugar. Add well-beaten eggs, 
and ground almonds and vanilla and flour to make a 
very stiff dough. Roll thin and cut like cookies. 
Pencil top with white of egg and put whole almonds 
on top. Bake very carefully in moderate oven. 

Mrs. A. K. Pergrin. 
Vinegar Cookies 

1 cup fine sugar 1 teaspoon soda 

1 cup butter 2 teaspoons vinegar 

1 cup molasses 3 cups or a trifle more 

4 eggs flour 

Cream sugar and butter together. Add molasses, 
beaten eggs, soda dissolved in the vinegar and flour. 
Roll out and cut into cookies. 

Mrs. William S. Crane. 
German Cookies 
(Lebkuchens) 

1 lb. pulverized sugar 1 lb. flour 

4 eggs y lb. almonds, blanched 

2 ounces ground cinna- and sliced 
mon A pinch of cloves 

l /4 lb. citron, sliced fine 



136 TRIED AND TRUE 

Beat eggs and sugar together very lightly ; grad- 
ually add flour to which the spices, almonds and 
citron have been added. Roll to one-quarter inch. 
Cut with round cutter, bake in moderate (not slow) 
oven until done. No butter is used. 

These are a very delectable dainty and should be 
made and packed away in stone jars at least a week 
before using. 

Mrs. Eva M. Wilkinson. 

Rega's Cookies 

1 cup sugar 3 cups flour 

2 tablespoons butter 1 tablespoon lard 
2 eggs 3 tablespoons sour 

1 teaspoon baking milk 

powder 1 half teaspoon soda 
Bake in quick oven. 

Ginger Cookies 
(Excellent) 

2 cups molasses 4 teaspoons soda 

1 cup brown sugar 8 teaspoons baking 

1 cup hot shortening powder 

(half lard and half 6 tablespoons boiling 

butter) water 

2 teaspoons ginger Flour enough to make 
2 well beaten eggs soft dough 

Dissolve soda in hot water, mix all the ingred- 
ients together with as little flour as you can handle 
dough. Roll thin, bake in moderate oven. 

Mrs. Clay. 

Fruit Cookies 

2 cups sugar 1 cup nuts 

1 cup raisins 3 tablespoons sweet 

3 eggs milk 

3^2 cups flour (scant) 1 teaspoon cinnamon 
1 teaspoon soda (level) 1 square of Baker's 
1 cup butter chocolate 

y 2 teaspoon nutmeg 



TRIED AND TRUE 137 

(Chocolate can be omitted is so desired.) 

Jane T. Faroat. 

Cookies 

2 cups light brown 5 eggs 

sugar 2 tablespoons hot 

94 cup butter water 

1 teaspoon grated nut- Flour enough to make 
meg stiff dough 

J/2 teaspoon soda 

Cream the butter and sugar, add beaten eggs, 
sift flour and stir in gradually, adding soda dissolved 
in the water, roll thin ; sprinkle granulated sugar 
over the top, cut with cake cutter, bake in quick 
oven. 

Mrs. Wm. H. Allen. 

Brown Betties 

l /2 cup butter l /> cup sugar 

2 cups flour 1 egg beaten 

1 cup sweet milk 2 teaspoons baking 

1 teaspoon cinnamon powder 

1 cup raisins 1 cup nuts 

1 teaspoon lemon 

Mix batter, roll into balls with spoon and hand. 
(An old English recipe.) 

Mrs. H. C. King. 

Doughnuts 

\ l /2 cups sugar l / 2 cup butter 

2 eggs 2 cups sour milk 

2 teaspoons soda 2 teaspoons baking 

Flavor to suit taste powder 

Cream sugar and butter, then add eggs, dissolve 
the soda in the milk. After this add the baking pow- 
der with a little sifted flour, then add enough more 
flour to roll. Be careful not to make the dough too 
stiff. Roll and cut them out. Before beginning to 



138 TRIED AND TRUE 

fry, have the lard very hot. Much depends on the 

frying. 

Mrs. M. P. Gilbert. 

Crullers 

2 cups granulated 3 eggs 

sugar 1 teaspoon baking 

1 cup sweet milk soda 

Pinch salt 1 teaspoon cream tar- 

1 cup sour milk tar 

Beat the eggs and sugar; then add flour and milk 
alternately. Use flour enough to make a soft dough, 
adding the baking powder. Roll out and cut ; fry in 
hot fat ; roll in sugar. 

Mrs. B. F. Xovioch. 

Potato Crullers 
4 medium sized pota- 2 cups of sugar 

toes 3 eggs 

1 large teaspoon butter 4 teaspoons baking 

1 large teaspoon salt powder 

Peel, boil and mash potatoes, add softened butter, 
sugar, eggs and salt; flour enough to make a dough 
that can be handled. To flour add baking powder. 
Season with vanilla or cinnamon. Cut out and fry in 
boiling lard. Drain on brown paper. 

Mrs. E. B. Bayliss. 

Coffee Cake 
\Y$ cups sugar 1 cup sour milk 

2 cups Swansdown 2 eggs 

flour (heaping) 1 teaspoon baking 

*/2 teaspoon soda powder 

1 tablespoon lard 1 tablespoon butter 

One whole egg and white of another beaten well. 
Melt butter and lard, stir in sugar and eggs, add 
about one-half cup of flour, stir in milk, add rest of 
flour with baking powder and soda. 

(Top) 
One-half cup butter, melted, stir in yolk of egg, 



TRIED AND TRUE 139 

cover top of batter with this. Twelve walnuts chop- 
ped fine, mixed with three-quarters cup of sugar and 
cinnamon. Spread this on top of butter and egg 
and bake. 

Mrs. A. A. Burnand. 

Strawberry Shortcake 

4 cups flour 24 cup of butter 

3 teaspoons baking 1 cup of sugar 

powder 1 cup of milk 

Sift the flour and sugar and baking powder to- 
gether, rub in the butter, add the milk, then roll out 
gently, not too thin, put in pan and bake. When 
done split and put your fruit in. This is enough to 
serve ten persons. 

Mrs. B. F. Novioch. 

Strawberry Shortcake 

1 egg 1 jelly glass milk 

*/> cup sugar 2 teaspoons baking 

1 tablespoon melted powder 

butter 2 boxes berries 

2 cups flour 

Stir sugar and butter together, then add well- 
beaten egg. Sift flour and baking powder together 
and add alternately with milk. Bake in two layers. 
Spread butter on layers while hot. Spread berries 
on each layer and add powdered sugar. 

Mrs. A. K. Pergrin. 



140 TRIED AND TRUE 



Eggs 

"The vulgar boil, the learned roast, an egg." 

Pope. 

Whipping Eggs. 

This is an art with which even many experienced 
cooks are not familiar. Wire egg beaters are the 
right sort to use for angel food, meringues or any- 
thing in which the cells are to be coarse, as this will 
beat the air in to inflate them. \Yheel egg beaters 
are better for the cake that is to have a fine grain. 
Beat the whites and yolks together and not to a 
light consistency, for custard either boiled or baked, 
and all custard puddings. 

To mix whites of eggs with cream, beat light and 
add to the cream, also beaten stiff, a short time be- 
fore it is to be used. Mrs. Hewson. 

Omelet 

6 eggs Salt and pepper 

6 tablespoons milk Butter size of walnut 

Beat yolks with milk and seasoning, beat whites 
very stiff; slowly beat the yolks into them. Have 
skillet quite warm, grease with butter, pour mixture 
in and cook slowly on top of stove, finish in slow 
oven, about five minutes, fold on platter. 

Mrs. J. F. Andrews, Jr. 

Spanish Eggs 

Take two tablespoons of butter. When melted, 
add half of a small onion, chopped fine. Cook a few 
minutes, then add five or six sliced and peeled to- 



TRIED AND TRUE 141 

matoes (canned tomatoes can be used), pepper and 
salt and cayenne to taste. 

When all is well cooked, add half pint of rich 
cheese. When the cheese is melted carefully break 
into the pan five or six eggs. Baste eggs with the 
sauce until they are cooked ; then serve on toast. 

-Mrs. C. M. Ward. 

Egg Gems 

1 cup chopped cold 1 tablespoon melted 

meat butter 

1 cup of bread crumbs Salt and pepper 

Mix all well, with enough milk to bind together; 
fill the gem pans with the mixture ; break an egg on 
top of each, seasoning with salt and pepper; sprinkle 
with cracker crumbs. Bake eight minutes. 

Mrs. J. E. Quinn. 

Deviled Eggs 

4 eggs 2 tablespoons grated 

1 teaspoon vinegar cheese 

Y+ teaspoon mustard l /> teaspoon salt 

Pinch cayenne 

Enough melted butter to spread 
Cut eggs lengthwise, mash yolks with silver fork 
until smooth. Add cheese, vinegar, salt, mustard, 
cayenne and butter. Mix and form into balls and re- 
fill'. Mrs. Cora S. Brough. 

Raw Eggs 

Eggs are more easily digested raw than cooked 
They are not subjected to the same danger by any 
means as oysters, milk or meat. An egg added to a 
morning cup of coffee makes a good tonic. The 
white of an egg beaten with loaf sugar and lemon 
relieves hoarseness. Take one teaspoonful every 
hour. A mustard plaster made with the white of an 
egg will not leave a blister. A raw egg taken imme- 
diately will carry down a fish bone that cannot be 
coughed up from the throat. Mrs. H. C. King. 



142 TRIED AND TRUE 



Sanbwicbes 



Sandwiches 

"Bachelor's fare: bread and cheese and kisses." 

Swift. 

In preparing bread for sandwiches, cut slices as 
thin as possible and remove crusts. If butter is used, 
cream the butter and spread bread before cutting 
from loaf. Spread half the slices with mixture to be 
used for filling, cover with remaining pieces and cut 
in squares, oblongs or triangles. If sandwiches are 
shaped with round or fancy cutters, bread should be 
shaped before spreading, that there may be no waste 
of butter. Sandwiches which are prepared several 
hours before serving time may be kept fresh and 
moist by wrapping in a napkin wrung as dry as pos- 
sible out of hot water and keeping in a cool place. 
Paraffine paper is often used for the same purpose. 
Bread for sandwiches cuts better when a day old. 
Serve sandwiches piled on a plate covered with a 
doily. 

Fannie Merritt Farmer. 

Celery Sandwiches 

1 cup celery 1 tablespoon nuts 

1 tablespoon apples 1 tablespoon olives 

Mince fine, mix with Mayonnaise. Spread be- 
tween thin slices of buttered bread. 

Cream Cheese Sandwiches 

Cream cheese and finely chopped nuts, or cream 
cheese with finely chopped olives. Spread between 
thin slices of buttered bread. 



TRIED AND TRUE 143 

Hot Cheese Sandwiches 

Cut bread thin and in small squares, cutting 
crusts away. Butter well. Cut cheese in slices size 
of sandwiches. Sprinkle paprika on chees^. Toast 
both sides of sandwich in slow oven. 

Mrs. John J. Andrews, Jr. 

Chicken Sandwiches 

Equal portions of chicken and celery minced very 
fine. Moisten with Mayonnaise. Spread between 
thin slices of buttered bread. 

Egg Sandwiches 

Hard-boiled eggs; yolks mashed very fine and 
moistened with melted butter. Spread and sprinkle 
with finely chopped whites. 

Date Sandwiches 

Dates and nuts chopped fine and mixed with 
cream. Prepare as other sandwiches. 

Peanut Butter Sandwiches 

Peanut butter and chopped stuffed olives moist- 
ened with Boiled Dressing. Prepare as other sand- 
wiches. 

Ginger Sandwiches 

Preserved ginger and nuts chopped fine, mois- 
tened with Boiled Dressing. Spread between thin 
slices buttered bread. 

Anna V. Ray. 

Mustard Cream for Sandwiches 

3 tablespoons mustard 2 yolks of eggs well 
mixed with warm beaten 

water Butter size of an egg 

]/ 2 cup vinegar 

Boil all together in double boiler except butter, 
which is added after taking mixture from the stove. 

Mrs. R. H. Norton. 



144 TRIED AND TRUE 

Jellies, preserves, 

labes anb flMckles 



"Feel, masters, how I shake!" 

Henry IV. 

Jellies made from the following recipes carried 
off the first Premiums and the Sweepstakes at the 
old St. Louis Fair in a competition which included 
competitors from Missouri, Illinois and Kentucky. 
Mrs. Rebecca Thompson. 

Recipe for Fruit Jellies 

Pare and core fruit such as apple or quince cut 
into pieces, eights or whatever size desired ; place in 
your kettle, barely covering with water ; place the 
cover on the kettle and allow the fruit to boil until 
tender. Then turn into your jelly bag and suspend 
it so that it may drip all night if necessary, but do 
not press or squeeze the bag. Two and a half or 
three pints of juice at one time is the quantity most 
successful in making fine jellies. To that amount 
of juice add one pint of good clear water, and set the 
kettle to boil for twenty minutes. This boiling will 
clarify the juice, and the added water will be boiled 
away, leaving the original amount of juice much 
clarified, without having a strong taste or a darker 
color. Strain through a muslin cloth ; then measure 
the juice, and to each pint add a pint of sugar; stir 
until fairly well dissolved ; set over the fire and let 
boil for fifteen or twenty minutes trying it fre- 
quently by allowing it to drip from the end of the 
spoon. When it hangs in a long mass from the 
spoon, it is sufficiently boiled. To remove the scum, 



TRIED AND TRUE 145 

my most successful plan was to tie a muslin cloth 
over the top of a half gallon pitcher and pour the 
jelly through it, thus removing the scum, beside 
having the jelly in a convenient vessel from which 
to fill the glasses. 

All jellies are made under the same general di- 
rections. When the fruit is not so rich in jelly (as 
in grapes), use a little less sugar, and where it is 
very rich in jelly (as in cranberries) use a little 
more sugar to the pint of juice. 

Mrs. Rebecca Thompson. 

Cranberry Frappe 

(To serve with Turkey) 
1 qt. cranberries 1 Ib. sugar 

1 pt. water Juice of two lemons 

Boil cranberries in water five or six minutes. 
Strain through a coarse cheesecloth, add sugar and 
stir until it boils to dissolve sugar. When cold add 
juice of lemons. Freeze to a "mush." 

Mrs. William S. Crane. 

Preserved Pineapple 

Pare pineapple and put through chopper, three- 
fourths pound of sugar to every pound of fruit. 
Mix well and let stand over night in a cool place. 
In the morning cook slowly until fruit is tender and 
syrup clear. Skim carefully, and put in jars. 

Mrs. E. P. Johnson. 

Strawberry Conserve 

3 boxes strawberries 1 large can sliced pine- 

1 large orange apple 

Remove seeds and put orange through meat 
grinder. Cut up pineapple, wash berries. Take 
cup for cup of sugar and fruit, let stand a short 
time, then cook to consistency of jam. 

Mrs. A. A. Burnand. 



146 TRIED AND TRUE 

Ginger Pears 
8 pounds firm Bart- y?. Ib. preserved ginger 

lett pears (dry) 

\ l /2 qts. water 4 lemons 

8 Ibs. cane sugar 

Put whole lemons to boil in cold water ; cook 
until very tender. Remove seeds and stringy part 
of pulp and chop fine. Peel pears, which should 
be green in color, but fully grown ; chop fine ; add 
sugar, one quart hot water and one-half quart water 
in which lemons were boiled. Boil all together 
one-half hour. Add chopped lemons and boil until 
a good thick marmalade. Seal in jelly glasses with 
melted paraffine. 

Louise Howard. 

Ginger Pears 

8 Ibs. pears 4 lemons, juice and 

8 Ibs. sugar rind 

l /4 Ib. ginger root 
Boil slowly two hours o'r until clear. 

Mrs. William S. Crane. 

Watermelon Preserves 

To each quart of melon rind cut in small pieces 
use one pint of granulated sugar. Place in alternate 
layers in jar; let stand over night. Pour off the 
syrup into preserving kettle, and bring to a boil, 
then add the melon. Boil slowly until the melon 
looks clear, and the syrup is thick, about three 
hours over a slow fire. An hour before it is done 
add three or four lemons, sliced, rind and all (minus 
seeds) or a few pieces of ginger root cut fine, or a 
can of pineapple. Trim off all the pink on the rind 
and it will be a beautiful amber color. 

Mrs. Edith Bayliss. 

Glenwood Orange Marmalade 
Slice one dozen oranges thin, throwing away 
ends, and one-half dozen lemons, removing all seeds. 



TRIED AND TRUE 147 

Weigh the fruit, and to each pound of fruit add 
one pint of cold water and let stand over night. 
Next morning boil the fruit in the same water until 
tender. Remove from fire and weigh again, and to 
each pound of fruit and liquid add one pound of 
sugar. Boil until it jellies, which will take about 
twenty minutes. Do not have the fruit too ripe; 
must be firm. 

Mission Inn, Riverside, Cal. 

Dundee Orange Marmalade 

12 large ripe oranges 3 lemons, all the juice, 

4 Ibs. granulated sugar and the rind of one 

Cut the peel of four oranges into thin strips or 
small dice and the rind of one lemon. Stew them 
in clear water until tender; slice and seed the 
oranges. Put into a preserving kettle with the juice 
of the lemons, and cook until all are boiled clown to 
a smooth pulp. Rub this through a colander, re- 
turn to the saucepan with the sugar, and keep at a 
fast boil until quite thick. Stir in the dice from 
which the water has been drained, boil two minutes 
longer and pour into glasses. Cover when quite 
cold. After the sugar goes in, all marmalade should 
be stirred constantly. 

Mrs. Arthur L. Wright. 

Grapefruit Marmalade 

Ten grapefruit. Slice and take out seeds. Cut 
in very small pieces. Soak in salt and water over 
night (handful salt). In morning wash through 
two clear waters, then boil until tender in fresh 
water, about one-half hour. Just cover with water 
when you boil them. Add sugar, one quart for 
one quart juice. Boil till clear and fruit commences 
to settle. Put in jelly glasses. Makes about twen- 
ty-one glasses. 

Mrs. William S. Crane. 



148 TRIED AND TRUE 

Grape Fruit Marmalade 

(Original) 
5 seedless grapefruit 7 Ibs. sugar 

3 lemons 24 cups cold water 

Cut the fruit in thin slices and quarter the slices. 
Put in an enamel preserving kettle, cover with the 
water and boil until the fruit is perfectly trans- 
parent, which may take several hours. Water may 
also be added if necessary as it boils away. Heat 
the sugar on platters in the oven add to the fruit 
and boil for half an hour. Put into tumblers. 

Lydia F. Moir. 

Pickled Figs 
(Blue Pacifies) 

14 Ibs. figs 2 heaping tablespoons 

2 teaspoons whole stick cinnamon 

cloves 7 Ibs. sugar 

Ipt. best cider vinegar 

Put spices in cheesecloth bag. Steam figs one 
hour over water in which one tablespoon of soda 
has been dissolved. Make syrup of sugar, vinegar 
and spices. Pour over figs, let stand all night; 
strain syrup from figs; boil and skim, repeat this 
three mornings. On third morning boil down until 
thick; add figs to syrup, cook until clear; seal in 
glass jars. 

-Mrs. R. H. Updegraff. 

Pickled Figs 

4 Ibs. figs 6 or seven cloves 
24 cup vinegar 2 Ibs. sugar 

Stick cinnamon 

Put spices in Swiss bag. Put vinegar, sugar 
and spices in large pan. A dishpan is best, as 
it does not crush figs. Let this come to a boil, 
then add figs and cook until figs look like glass or 
shine. You can peel figs but I prefer them with 
skins on. 

Jane T. Faroat. 



TRIED AND TRUE 149 

Spiced Cherries 

7 Ibs. cherries 3 Ibs. brown sugar 

1 qt. cider vinegar Spices to taste 

Put sugar and vinegar with spices into a kettle 
and let come to boil. Having put fruit into a jar, 
pour syrup boiling hot over it. Let stand twenty- 
four hours, pour off syrup, boil and pour over fruit 
again as before. Do this three times, then put 
all into kettle and boil fifteen minutes. 

Mrs. Arthur L. \Yright. 

Spiced Cherries 

(Mother's Recipe, 30 years old) 
10 Ibs. cherries 5 Ibs. currants 

10 Ibs. sugar 3 qts. vinegar 

4 tablespoons cin- 2 tablespoons nutmeg 

namon 2 tablespoons cloves 

Cook all together about three hours, or until 
thick. 

Mrs. Adams. 

Pineapple Sweet Pickle 

10 Ibs. fruit (weighed 6 Ibs. cane sugar 

after preparation) 1 oz. stick cinnamon 

1J4 c l ts - cider vinegar y 2 oz. whole cloves 

Pare fruit removing "eyes," and core. Cut into 
one inch slices, then into small pieces. Allow vine- 
gar, sugar and spices to boil (spices tied in cheese 
cloth bag) fifteen minutes. Skim, add fruit, small 
quantity at a time, and boil until transparent. Drain 
from syrup and remove to glass jars. Boil syrup 
until rich. Fill to overflowing; add one inch piece 
stick cinnamon and two or three cloves to each 
jar, and seal. 

Louise Howard. 

Sweet Pickled Quinces 

Pare and core the quinces. To five pounds of 
quinces add two and a half pounds of sugar, one 



150 TRIED AND TRUE 

pint white vinegar, two ounces each of whole cloves 
and stick cinnamon. Put the quinces into a pre- 
serving kettle, cover with water, cook gently until 
soft. Take out and drain. Put into the water 
thev were boiled in the sugar, boil up once or 
twice. Boil the vinegar and spices together for a 
few minutes ; add the syrup and pour all over the 
quinces. Put up in jars. 

(Pears may be done the same way.) 

Mrs. Susan C. Hosmer. 

Brandied Figs 
("White Pacifies" Time : Late September) 

25 Ibs. figs 

24 Ibs. cane sugar to every Ib. of fruit (sugar to be 
weighed to weight of figs after draining) 

"Three Star" Hennessey brandy 
Wash and weigh figs. Put to boil in cold water. 
Cook until tender enough to be penetrated with 
broom-strawabout thirty-five minutes. Drain in 
wire basket and spread on platters. Next morn- 
ing put as little of the water in which figs were 
boiled as will dissolve sugar, weighing fruit and 
allowing three-quarters pound of sugar to each 
pound of fruit. Boil sugar and water fifteen min- 
utes, skim and add figs. Allow to become thor- 
oughly hot and remove to jars, carefully draining 
free from juice. Let syrup boil until very thick. 
Take half and half hot syrup and brandy, and fill 
jars to overflowing. Seal. 

Louise Howard. 

Brandy Peaches 

Peel peaches and put in a jar with three-quar- 
ters pound of sugar to a pound of peaches ; let them 
stand twelve hours with sugar, then pour syrup 
off and bring to a boil dropping peaches in to stay 
until they can be stuck through with a stiff straw. 
Then take peaches carefully out one by one and lay 



TRIED AND TRUE 151 

on a dish to cool, letting the syrup boil a while 
longer; then put peaches in a jar, pour syrup over 
them until jar is two-thirds full and fill balance of 
space with apple brandy. Add a little orange peel- 
ing and spices to taste and seal. 

-Mrs. Baker P. Lee, Va. 

Red Pepper Pickle 

Select red peppers of an even size and soak them 
for about twenty minutes in boiling water. Allow 
them to remain in a salt brine over night. Cut in 
thin slices, discarding all seeds and stringy pulp. 
Make a sweet pickle by using three pounds of sugar 
(brown preferred) a pint of cider vinegar, two 
tablespoons each of whole cloves, cinnamon and 
allspice. Scald all together and cook until the pep- 
pers are tender. Remove the peppers and cook 
down the vinegar until slightly thick, then pour 
over the peppers. Seal and use as a meat relish. 

Mrs. Perry. 

Cucumber Pickle 

(Uncooked) 
3 doz. large cucumbers 18 onions 

Chop fine and sprinkle with salt, let stand over 
night. In the morning drain well and add one cup 
of white mustard seed, one-third of a cup of black 
pepper. Cover well with pure vinegar and seal in 
jars. This keeps perfectly and is fine. 

Mrs. F. W. Jones. 

Oil Pickles 

100 small cucumbers Y\ lb. white mustard 

1 cup olive oil seed 

A small quantity l /4 lb. black mustard 

celery seed seed 

1 teaspoon sugar 

Slice cucumbers very thin. Sprinkle one cup 
salt through them. Let stand over night ; drain, 



152 TRIED AND TRUE 

then add all of the above ingredients. Mix thor- 
oughly; pack in glass jars and cover with cold vine- 
gar and seal. 

Anna V. Ray. 

Watermelon Pickles 

(Fine) 

Pare and cut watermelon rinds and lay in mild 
salt brine over night. Next morning pour off brine 
and cover with fresh cold water. Let stand one 
hour, then drain and boil in alum water until clear 
(one tablespoon pulverized alum to seven quarts, 
w r ater). Prepare a syrup of vinegar well sweetened 
and spiced with stick cinnamon, cloves, allspice 
and ginger. Put spice in bags, quantities deter- 
mined by the amount of rind. \Yhen syrup is pre- 
pared let it boil gently one hour before the rind is 
put in. When the rinds cook clear in the alum 
water drain and soak one hour in cold water. Put 
them in syrup and boil three hours. They will keep 
in crock if closely covered. 

Mrs. A. A. P)urnand. 



TRIED AND TRUE 153 



fllMscellaneoue 



"Now and then your men of wit 
Will condescend to take a bit." 

Swift. 

Strawberry Cordial 

Moil one quart strawberries with one pound of 

sugar, twenty minutes. Strain through flannel 

without pressing. While warm add one-third as 

much whiskey as syrup. Bottle and cork at once. 

Mrs. Selden, "Westover," Va. 

Fruit Punch 

(Serves 500 people) 

15 doz. lemons 10 gals, water 

10 doz. oranges 5 grated pineapples 

48 cups sugar 25 cups water 

Make syrup of water and sugar. Add other in- 
gredients. 

Mrs. William S. Crane. 

Fruit Cup 

Cut grapefruit in halves crosswise. Scoop out 
the pulp and put the shells in cold water. Mix one 
pint of strawberries with grapefruit pulp and add 
two tablespoons powdered sugar. At serving time 
fill shells with mixture and add one tablespoon 
shaved ice and one of sherry. Garnish with 
cherry on top. 

Inez Ray Weeks. 

Raspberry Vinegar 

Three quarts of berries. Put in jar or bowl. 
Cover with vinegar. Next morning add three quarts 



154 TRIED AND TRUE 

more of berries and strain vinegar from first 
through colander only, pressing very lightly over 
the fresh ones. Repeat for three mornings, then 
squeeze through cheese cloth bag. Put one pound 
sugar, granulated, to each pint of juice. Put all in 
kettle and boil twenty minutes. Bottle but do not 
cork until cold. Three quarts of berries each morn- 
ing will make seven quarts of the vinegar. 

Mrs. Arthur L. Wright. 

Turkish Delight 

Take one ounce Silver Leaf (imported) gelatine. 
Eight sheets make one ounce. Cut into strips with 
scissors. Put one-half cup of cold water over this. 
Let stand two hours. 

Take two cups of sugar and one-half cup of 
water; bring to a boil. Then stir in gelatine. Boil 
twenty minutes stirring constantly to keep from 
burning as it scorches very quickly. 

Have ready one-half cup of cut nuts, grated 
rind and juice of one orange, juice of one-half lemon 
and a little grated rind, making in all three-quarters 
cup of juice. Have someone pour this into gelatine 
while vou keep stirring. Let this come to a hard 
boil. 

Have ready a pan dipped into water. Pour 
mixture into wet pan. Put out over night. In 
morning cut into squares. Dip in powdered sugar. 

Jane T. Faroat. 

Stuffed Figs 

Like stuffed dates, make a delicious confection 
for dinner. They are best made with fresh figs, 
but if these are not available, use the best quality 
of dried figs. Take out the inside of the figs add 
to it finely chopped almonds or peanuts. Mix 
thoroughly with a little orange juice. Put this 
mixture back into the shells, press the sides to- 
gether and roll in powdered sugar. 

-Mrs. H. C. King. 



TRIED AND TRUE 155 



foible of Weights anb 
Measures 



4 salt spoons 1 teaspoon 

3 teaspoons 1 tablespoon 

4 tablespoons y cup 

2 tablespoons 1 wine glass 

4 tablespoons flour 1 ounce 

2 tablespoons butter 1 ounce 

4 cups of flour 1 pound 

2 cups solid butter 1 pound 

2 cups granulated sugar 1 pound 

2 cups of finely chopped meat (packed 

solid) 1 pound 

2 cups 1 pint 

2 pints 1 quart 

4 quarts 1 gallon 

2 gallons 1 peck 

For Cleaning White or Light Wool Suits 

Take a pan with dry corn meal. Rub the meal 
into the goods as though washing. When well gone 
over in this manner, brush thoroughly. The ma- 
terial will then look quite fresh and clean. Should 
there be bad grease spots, leave the meal on the 
goods twenty-four hours, or dampen the cornmeal 
just a little and leave for a day. Then rub well and 
brush out the meal. You will be pleased to find the 
grease spots have disappeared leaving no circle as 
when fluids are used. I have known axle grease taken 
from a beautiful light cloth suit in this manner. 

Miss Martha Wilson Wright. 



156 TRIED AND TRUE 



ur Ipatrons 



We herewith present a list of those, who 
through their patronage of our advertising depart- 
ment have made possible the publishing of THE 
TRIED and TRUE COOK BOOK. 

Page 

Alvarado Pharmacy 66 

Auditorium Hotel 163 

Bachmann, P. J 167 

Bell & Company. 15. B 160 

Brock & Company 47 

Cameron, Margaret 160 

California Inirniture Company 60 

Cass-Smurr-Damerel-Company 162 

Cunningham-Curtiss-Welch Company 162 

Empire Dye Works 157 

Feinberg Brothers 162 

First National Bank 117 

Iran Company, The 165 

Lankershim Hotel 158 

Lichtenberg, F 160 

Leighton Hotel 166 

Little Company, A. E.... 2 { ) 

McGregor, Claire Ruyter 163 

Mullen & Bluett * 161 

Nolan, M. J ; 163 

Norris & Son, J. A 159 

Ouellet. Myrtle Fransesca 167 

Potts, Mme 162 

Smith Company, Walter E 15*' 

Wetherby-Kayser Shoe Company 158 

Week's Window Adjuster , 167 

Young's Market Company 160 



HOME F3622 



TRIED AND TRUE 
PHONES 



157 

MAIN 4342 



GARMENTS 
DRAPERIES 

CURTAINS AND 
PLUMES 

PROMPT 



FINEST 



LADIES FINE GARMENTS 

OUR SPECIALTY 

WORK CALLED FOR 

AND DELIVERED 



SERVICE 




WORK 



WHITE WORK CLEANED WHITE 

MAIN OFFICE AND WORKS, 1010-12 SAN PEDRO STREET 
LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA 



158 TRIED AND TRUE 

In the heart of 

LOS ANGELES 

Hotel Lankershim 

BROADWAY AT SEVENTH ST. 
EUROPEAN PLAN EXCELLENT CAFES 

Three hundred rooms; one hundred and sixty baths. 

Rates: Rooms without bath, $1 .50 and upwards. 

with bath, $2.00 and upwards. 

Free Automobile Bus Service from all trains. 

Under the management of 

COOPER & DAVIS, Lessees. 




Los Angeles 
Broadway at Fourth 

The largest assortment of the better 
grades of Men's, Women's and Children's 
shoes carried in the city. 

Agents for Laird-Schober Shoes for women 
and children. 

Johnston & Murphy Shoes for men. 



TRIED AND TRUE 



159 




Ht \>ouu Service 

"A CALIFORNIA GROCERY STORE" 



Groceries, Fresh Meats 
Fresh and Smoked Fish 

Delicacies, Fruits 
Bakery Goods, 

Confections 



7 



Departments 

DEVOTED TO 

THE BEST 

IN FOODS 



Each Department Equipped with the 

best known conveniences for 

cleanliness and efficiency. 



We Solicit the opportunity to demon- 
strate the quality of our goods and 
Efficiency of our Service. 

WALTER E. SMITH Co. 

212-214-216-218 SO. SPRING STREET. 



Take one section of sun kissed 
California soil, a good sharp spade- 
use vigourously until soil is light and 
mealy. A few choice PLANTS hand 
picked and carefully placed. A pail 
heaping full of water applied each day 
and soon your garden will be a de- 
light to the beholder. 



J. A. NORRIS & SON 

530 W. Washington Street 

Los Angeles, Cal. 
Home 22091 Sunset West 4091 



160 



TRIED AND TRUE 



MARGARET CAMERON 

A COMPLETE SHOWING OF THE FOREIGN 
NOVELTIES OF THE SEASON 

GOWNS, TROUSSEAUS AND TAILORED SUITS 



Models 

Your inspection invited any day 
from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. 



Fourth Floor 

751 South Broadway 

Los Angeles 



HOME F 2407 



MAIN 4732 



SEE US FOR PRICES 

F. LICHTEIVBERG 

FLORIST 

FRESH CUT FLOWERS FOR ALL OCCASIONS 

328 West Fifth St. Los Angeles, Cal. 



DESIGNERS 




IMPORTERS 



5 B. B. BELL & COMPANY 

LIGHTING FIXTURE STUDIOS 

PRESENTING EXCLUSIVE WORK OF NEW YORK AND 
BOSTON MANUFACTURERS. TELEPHONES: SUNSET 
.MAIN 4222 ; HOME F- 2327 

207 BROADWAY CENTRAL BUILDING 

424 S. BROADWAY 
ANDIRONS 

FIRE SETS 



Los ANGELES 



"THE BEST COSTS NO MORE" 

Fresh Dressed Milk Fed Poultry 



YOUNGS MARKET CO. 



450 S. Broadway. 



Wholesale, Central and Gladys 



TRIED AND TRUE 




The Success of our Boys' Department is 
built on a Solid Foundation and the Corner- 
Stone is Quality. 

Our showing of beautiful tailored garments 
for boys is worthy of its reputation. 

It is our desire to give our patrons only the 
Best. 




BROADWAY 



SIXTH 



162 TRIED AND TRUE 

CASS-SMURR-DAMEREL-CO. 

412-414 S. BROADWAY 

DEALERS IN 

Hardware, Kitchen Furnishings, Stoves and 

Kitchen Ranges, Refrigerators, 

Hot Air Furnaces 

Tel. Home 1O501 Sunset* Main 339 



potts 



512 South 3Broaowag 
pbone f 4124 



Importer 

' Bailor 



evening and "Reception <5owng 



Cunningham, Curtiss & Welch Co, 

. 

SCHOOL AND PRINTERS AND 

LIBRARY BOOKS BOOK BINDERS. 

COMMERCIAL STATIONERS 
BOOKSELLERS 

252 SOUTH SPRING STREET 
LOS ANGELES 




LOS ANGELES 
B. F. AND M.S. GREEN. PROPS. 



5th Street at Olive and Central Park 

NEXT TO TEMPLE AUDITORIUM 

Especially Desirable for Ladies Traveling Alone 
150 Rooms Moderate Prices 75 Baths 

All Outside Rooms 
Transfer from any Car Line to Washington or First and Sixth Street Loop. 

Claire TRu^ter flDcCSregor, M A. 

PIANISTE (BERLIN) 

Music Studio, 2117 West Eighth Street 



PHONE 556658 



IF YOU WANT TO BUY OR SELL 
REAL ESTATE, CALL ON 

M. J. NOLAN 

SUCCESSOR TO NOLAN & SMITH 
ESTABLISHED 1886 

REAL ESTATE, INVESTMENTS 

228 WEST SECOND STREET 

LOS ANGELES, CAL. 
BOTH TELEPHONES 1409 



164 



TRIED AND TRUE 



FEINBERG BROS. 

FO MERLV WITH MME. POTTS 

LADIES* TAILORS 

HOUSE OF ART 

DEAR MADAM.- 

There are many tail- 
ors that are making 
suits, but only a few 
that can put life and 
attraction in a ladies' 
suit, because ladies' 
tailoring is an artistic 
trade. 

Every suit and every 
dress must be made by 
a tailor who has had 
experience and loves 
his work. 

We have a great 
variety of materials and 
fashions to select from. 
Our own designs and 
models will surely in- 
terest you. Our prices 
are moderate. Deposit 
not required until work 
is satisfactory. 

If you have tried 
others and failed, we 
are sure you will not 
make a mistake in see- 
ing us. 

Yours respectfully, 

FEINBERG BROS. 

FORMERLY WITH MME, POTTS 

Your suit will always 
be in good condition, for 
we agree to press it for 
one year free of charge, 

411-12 Union League Building, Los Angeles 




SECOND AND HILL STS. 



PHONE F66O2 



TRIED AND TRUE 165 



TELEPHONES: MAIN 5122, HOME F 1885 H. H. KHAZOYAN 



TK, 




e 

NATIVE IMPORTERS OF 

ORIENTAL^UOS AND CARPETS 



720 South Olive St. 
LOS ANGELES, CAL. 



The firm that has beautified hundreds of 
homes in Southern California during the last 
ten years. 



Please note that our location is now 
SOUTH OLIVE ST. 

Instead of 717 South Broadway. 



166 



TRIED AND TRUE 



HOTEL LEIGHTON 

WEST SIXTH STREET AT ALVARADO 
FACING WESTLAKE PARK 




AN AMERICAN PLAN HOTEL 

Located in a beautiful residential section. Combining 
excellent cuisine with efficient service and delightful 
social features; makes this a desirable hotel for those 
who wish a quiet elegant home. 

RATES $3.00 PER DAY AND UP 

All outside rooms 

LEIGHTON HOTEL COMPANY 



TRIED AND TRUE 167 

flD^rtle jfransesca uellet 

INSTRUCTOR AND SOLO HARPISTE 

STUDIO 1344 S FIGUEROA ST. 

PHONE 24848 LOS ANGELES 

PHONE MAIN 3656 

P. J. BACHMANN 

FINE ARTS 
HIGH GRADE PICTURE FRAMING 

1306 S. FIGUEROA ST. LOS ANGELES 

WEEKS' CASEMENT WINDOW ADJUSTOR 
FOR SASH OPENING INWARD 




Have you Casement Windows opening inward? 

Here is an Adjuster which will hold your window open at 
any angle. 

It is built of SOLID BRASS and will last forever. 

Put on in a few minutes by anyone. 

Weight complete only 4 ounces. No larger than your two 
fingers. Out of sight when the window is closed. Simple, strong 
and cannot get out of order. Does not interfere with the screen. 

FOR SALE BY MANUFACTURED BY 

HARDWARE DEALERS PAUL WEEKS. LOS ANGELES 



168 TRIED AND TRUE 



Unbex 



Page 

Serving Dinner 5 

Dinner Menu 13 

Serving Luncheon 17 

Luncheon Menu 21 

Wedding Reception Menu 25 

Soups i 30 

Fish 35 

Entrees 38 

Kentucky Welsh Rarebit 39 

Meats *. -18 

Garnishes for Meats and Fish 55 

Sauces for Meats 56 

Vegetables 59 

Salads and Salad Dressings 67 

Puddings : 77 

Cold Desserts 88 

Ice Cream 92 

Pies : 94 

Cakes and Fillings 98 

Breads, Muffins and Brown Bread 118 

Biscuits, Waffles, Popovers and Pancakes ! 128 

Gingerbread 130 

Cookies, etc 133 

Coffee Cake and Short Cake 138 

Eggs 140 

Sandwiches _ 142 

Jellies 144 

Preserves 145 

Marmalades 146 

Pickles 148 

Miscellaneous :. 153 

Table of Weights and Measures 155 



'Xv7/^ -C5& 



fiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiH 

m 




filllliilllllilllllllllllilllllllilllllllillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllilllllllllllllllllllllH 



TRIED AND TRUE 

COOK BOOK 



Published in connection with the Fair in Aid 
of the Building Fund of the Free Congrega- 
tional Church, Andover, Massachusetts, 1903 



SBCOND BDITION, 1913 
Copyright by George A. Christie 



THE ANDOVER PRESS 
ANDOVER, MASS. 



.54 



A TABLE OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES FOR 
HOUSEKEEPERS 



Ten eggs One pound 

One quart of flour One pound 

Two cupfuls of butter One pound 

One generous pint of liquid One pound 

Two cupfuls of granulated sugar One pound 

Two heaping cupfuls of powdered sugar One pound 

One pint of finely chopped meat, packed solidly . . . One pound 

The cup used is the common kitchen cup, holding half a pint. 
Two and one-half teaspoonfuls .... make one tablespoonful 

Four tablespoonfuls " one wineglassful 

Two wineglassfuls " one gill 

Two gills " one teacupful 

Two teacupfuls % . " one pint 

Four tablespoonfuls salt . . ... . " one ounce 

One and one-half tablespoonfuls granulated sugar " one ounce 

Two tablespoonfuls flour ..... " one ounce 

One pint loaf sugar weighs ten ounces 

One pint brown sugar " twelve ounces 

Oney pint granulated sugar " sixteen ounces 

One pint wheat flour . . , . ^ . . " nine ounces 

One pint corn meal . . .".*'. f . . " eleven ounces 

A piece of butter the size of an egg 't*' . . " about iH ounces 



C!.A35850^ 



Time required for cooking the following 
meats and vegetables 



" Remember salt can be added but never taken away." 

 Booth 

Beef, sirloin, rare, per pound, eight to ten minutes. 

Beef, sirloin, well done, per pound, twelve to fifteen minutes. 

Chickens, three or four lbs. weight, one and one-half hours. 

Duck, tame, from forty to sixty minutes. 

Lamb, well done, per pound, fifteen minutes. 

Pork, well done, per pound, thirty minutes. 

Turkey, ten pounds, three hours. 

Veal, well done, per pound, twenty minutes. 

Potatoes, boiled, thirty minutes. 

Potatoes, baked, forty-five minutes. 

Sweet potatoes, baked, one hour. 

Squash, boiled, twenty-five minutes. 

Squash, baked, forty-five minutes. 

Green peas, boiled, twenty to forty minutes. 

Shelled beans, one hour. 

String beans, one to two hours. 

Green corn, from twenty to thirty minutes. 

Asparagus, fifteen to thirty minutes. 

Spinach, one to two hours. 

Tomatoes, one hour. 

Cabbage, forty-five minutes to two hours. 

Cauliflower, one to two hours. 

Dandelions, two to three hours. 

Beet greens, one hour. 

Onions, one to two hours. 

Beets, one to five hours. 

Turnips, forty-five minutes to one hour. 

Parsnips, from one-half to one hour. 



CONTENTS 





page 




PAGE 


Soups  




Doughnuts 


50 


Tomato . 


 5 


Fillings 


SI 


Potato 


. 6-7 


Frostings 


52 


Chowders 


. 8-9 


Cookies 


54 


Meats. Etc.  




Puddings, Etc.  




Meat Loaf 


. II 


Chocolate 


59 


Fricasseed Chicken 


. 12 


English Plum . 


60 


Ham 


 13 


Fruit 


60 


Fish 


 14 


Sauces 
Pies, Pastry  


64 


Vegetables . 


. 17 


Paste 


67 


Salads  




Apple 


67 


Salad Dressings 


. 21 


Cream 


68 






Cranberry 


68 


Breads, Etc.  




Lemon 


69 


Wheat Bread . 


 25 


Mock Cherry . 


69 


Brown Bread . 


. 26 


Mince 


70 


Buns 


. 27 


Fillings 


71 


Corn Cakes 


. 27 


Pattie Casings 


. 72 


Muffins . 


. 28 


Cream Cakes 


 72 


Rolls 


. 29 


Scotch Short Bread 


74 


Eggs .... 


 33 


Scotch Scones 
English Mince Meat 


 74 

74 


Cake, Cookies, Etc.  




Desserts 


77 


Angel 


' 36 


Ices and Beverages . 


83 


Chocolate 


 37 
. 41 




Fruit 


Confectionery . 


87 


Nut . 


. 44 


Pickles and Preserves 


91 


Sponge . 


. 48 


Miscellaneous 


96 



SOUPS 



Who pepper'd the highest, was surest to please." 

 Goldsmith. 



DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING STOCK FOR SOUP 

Use .hank or edge bone of beef, and shoulder or neck of mutton. 
Put in a kettle and cover with cold water, and let boil slowly for 
hours; strain and put away for use. Allow one quart of water to 
a pound of meat. N. H. F. 

TOMATO SOUP 

Boil a marrow bone in a quart of water one half hour, remove 
the bone and add one quart of tomato, two heaping tablesponfuls 
of flour, one of butter, one teaspoonful of salt, one of sugar, a little 
bay leaf and cut-up onion. Boil fifteen minutes and strain. 

Mrs. J. Newton Cole 

TOMATO SOUP 

One quart water, one pint cooked tomatoes boiled together and 
strained, one tablespoonful butter, one tablespronful flour rubbed 
together smoothly, one teaspoonful salt, one tablespoonful sugar and 
a shake of pepper. Boil together fifteen minutes or more. Serve 
this with crackers split in halves and buttered and browned in a 
hot oven. 

TOMATO SOUP 

Put three pints tomatoes stewed and strained and sweetened, 
to two quarts beef stock, add ^n onion, salt and pepper. 

POTOTO SOUP. I 

One pint of milk, three potatoes (average size) one teaspoonful 
chopped onion, one teaspoonful salt and a little pepper, one-half 
teaspoonful flour, one teaspoonful butter, celery salt if liked. Wash 
and pare potatoes, cook them in boiling water until very soft, cook 
the onion in the milk in a double boiler. When the potatoes are 
done, drain and mash them, add the hot milk and seasoning, put it 
through the strainer and return to double boiler. Melt the butter, 
when bubbling add the flour, stir well, pour on some of the hot 
milk, stir into the boiling soup, boil five minutes and serve hot. 



6 SOUPS 

POTATO SOUP. II 

Ten large potatoes boiled soft, and mashed with one-fourth 
pound of butter. Three pints of cold milk poured upon potatoes. 
Then let it come to a boil, stirring all the time. Season with pepper 
and salt. Strain, and serve with toasted crackers. N. H. F. 

POTATO SOUP. Ill 

Three potatoes, one pint milk, one teaspoonful onions chopped 
fine, one stalk celery. Put the milk on to cook in the double boiler 
with the onions and celery. Boil the potatoes and when soft mash 
and add the boiling milk and seasoning, rub through a strainer and 
put on to boil again. Put one tablespoonful butter in a saucepan 
and when melted and bubbling, add one-half tablespoonful flour, 
and when well mixed, add to the boiling soup. Cook five minutes 
and serve with croutons or crushed crackers. 

VEGETABLE SOUP 

Take the pieces left from a rib roast, cover with water, and boil 
gently for two hours. Strain, remove fat, and return to the kettle. 
Cut beets, carrots, turnips, and potatoes into dice, and slice onions. 
Boil until vegetables are soft. Do not strain. M. E. F. 

VEGETABLE SOUP 

One and one-half pounds lamb, half of a small cabbage, chopped 
fine, one large onion, a little parsley, two carrots grated, a quarter 
cup of rice. Season with salt and pepper to taste. Cover lamb with 
cold water and when at the boiling point skim carefully, then put 
your vegetables in and cook slowly three hours. 

CORN CHOWDER (NICE) 

Twelve ears of corn, one pint sliced potatoes, one onion. Cut 
two slices of salt pork in small pieces and fry in the kettle; then put 
in a layer of corn, layer of potatoes and onions, and a little salt. 
Repeat until all is used. Cover with hot water and cook thirty 
minutes. Just before removing from the fire put in a pint of milk 
and a piece of butter size of an egg. N. H. Farmer 

CORN SOUP 

Chop one can of corn, add one pint cold water, cook twenty 
minutes, press through a sieve. Scald one pint of milk with one 
slice of onion, remove onion, add to corn, season with one and one- 
half tablespoonfuls salt and one-fourth tablespoonful pepper. Thicken 
with two tablespoonfuls each of butter and flour cooked together. 



SOUPS 7 

CORN SOUP 

Boil one can of corn in one pint of water twenty minutes, then 
turn it into one quart of milk in which has been boiled a few slices 
of onion. Thicken with a heaping tablespoon of corn starch or flour. 
Boil about ten minutes, strain, and serve with toasted crackers. 

M. E. Todd 
BAKED BEAN SOUP 

Take cold baked beans, add twice the quantity of water and 
simmer until soft. When nearly done, add half as much tomato, rub 
through a strainer to remove skins, add more water until of the 
right consistency, season to taste with salt, pepper, and a little mixed 
mustard. Heat again to boiling point and serve with toasted crackers 
or browned squares of bread. Mrs. F. A. Wilson 

BAKED BEAN SOUP 

To one pint of cold baked beans add one quart of water, two 
slices of onion and stalks of celery. Simmer thirty minutes, rub 
through a sieve and add one cup of stewed and strained tomatoes; 
salt and pepper to taste. Cream two tablespoonfuls of butter and 
flour, add to the soup and cook ten minutes. 

CLAM CHOWDER 

Slice a little pork in frying pan and fry out. Put the fat in a 
granite kettle, slice in two small onions, four good-sized potatoes, 
cover with a little water and let simmer until the potatoes are done; 
about one-half hour. Add one pint chopped clams with liquor, cook 
a few minutes, add one pint milk, thicken a little and serve at once. 

OYSTER CHOWDER 

Slice four large peeled potatoes, one medium sized onion, boil 
together in enough water to cover them. When nearly done add 
liquor from one pint oysters. Bring the liquid to a boiling point, 
then add the oysters, boil five minutes, add pint boiling milk, and 
butter size of large walnut. Salt and pepper to taste. 

CORN CHOWDER 

Cut a two-inch cube of fat pork into small pieces and fry in a 
pan. Add one onion cut into slices and fry five minutes . Strain 
the fat into a stewpan, add one quart of potatoes cut in slices, and 
cover with boiling water. Cook ten minutes, add one can of corn, 
one quart of hot milk, and bring to a boiling point. Season with 
salt and pepper, add two tablespoonfuls of butter and eight crackers, 
split and soaked in a little cold milk.  



FISH CHOWDER 

Order three pounds of cod or haddock prepared for chowder. 
Remove every bone and cut the fish in small pieces. Put all bones in 
pan with cold water and let boil. Cut salt pork in small pieces and 
fry with two chopped onions. Parboil four cupfuls sliced potatoes. 
Scald one quart milk. Over potatoes pour fat from fried onions, 
add liquor drained from bones, two cupfuls boiling water, fish (which 
has been cooked about ten minutes in boiling water), milk, salt, 
pepper and butter. Just before serving, put in common split 
crackers. 

MOCK BISQUE SOUP 

One-half can of tomatoes, one quart milk, one-third cup butter, 
one tablespoonful corn starch, one teaspoonful salt, one-half salt- 
spoonful of pepper. Stew the tomatoes until soft enough to strain 
easily, boil the milk in double boiler. Cook one tablespoonful butter 
and cornstarch together in small saucepan, adding enough of the hot 
milk to pour easily. Stir it carefully into the boiling milk and boil 
ten minutes. Add the remainder of the butter in small pieces and 
stir till well mixed. Add salt and pepper and the strained tomatoes. 
If the tomatoes be very acid, add one-half saltspoonful of soda before 
straining. Serve very hot. Mrs. C. A. M. 

BEEF SOUP 

Take a piece of beef about two pounds, put on to boil with all 
kinds of vegetables, carrots, turnips, onions, cut in dice, add two 
tablespoonfuls of rice or barley, and water as needed, boil two hours 
or more. 

FISH CHOWDER 

Remove the bones from a couple of pounds of cod or haddock, 
put the bones over the fire with a quart of water, let simmer some 
time. Take and cut in slices a half-dozen or more potatoes and one 
onion, cook about ten minutes, pour oflf the water and add the water 
that the bones have cooked in and the fish. Add salt, pepper and 
nearly a pint of milk and a piece of butter. Serve with crackers. 

Mrs. D. Lindsay.. 

LOBSTER CHOWDER 

Two pounds lobster, three tablespoons butter, four cups milk, 
one slice onion, one cup cold water, two common crackers, finely 
pounded, salt and cayenne. Cream the butter and crackers, scalt 
the onion with milk, remove the onion and add to milk mixture. 
Then add lobster and season. Mrs. J. Newton Cole 



SOUPS 9 

CORN SOUP 

One can corn, one pint boiling water, one pint milk, one slice 
onion, two tablespoons butter, two tablespoons flour, one teaspoonful 
salt, few grains pepper. Chop corn, add water, simmer twenty 
minutes, rub through a sieve. Scald milk with onion, remove onion 
and add milk to corn. Bind with butter and flour cooked together. 
Add salt and pepper. Mrs. J. Netwon Cole 

SCOTCH POTATO SOUP 

Eight or ten potatoes, according to size, a marrow bone or a 
piece of dripping, one onion, seasoning of salt and pepper, between 
two and three quarts water. Wash and pare the potatoes, cut them 
in small pieces, and when the water has come a-boil, put them in. 
Boil for an hour and then add seasoning, and, if liked, a sprig of 
parsley and half a carrot and half a turnip grated. Boil for another 
quarter of an hour, and serve nice and hot. 

BAKED BEAN SOUP 

One pint cold baked beans (white or colored), one onion, three 
pints water. Boil until tender (several hours). Red pepper, one 
whole clove if you like, sugar, if no molasses in beans. Add one 
pint of tomatoes and cook one hour. Season and strain. Add soup 
stock and w-arm up together, or cook a bone with the beans. Beans 
strain easier cooked a long time alone. 

FISH CHOWDER 

Fry six slices of salt pork crisp, then remove from the kettle, 
leaving the fat. Slice ten or twelve potatoes with two onions, put 
in layer of potatoes, one of onions, and one of fish, season with salt 
and pepper and sprinkle on a little flour, as the flour thickens the 
broth a little, and continue until all is used, adding sufficient w^ater 
to cook. After boiling twenty minutes, pour over one quart milk 
and let come to a boil, cover with onions and serve. 



MEATS, FISH, Etc. 



" A joint of mutton and any pretty liitle kickshaws, tell William, cook." 

 Shakespeare 

" Master, I marvel how the fishes live in the sea ? " 

" Why, as men do aland ; the great ones eat up the little ones." 

Shalcesjjeare 



FRICASEED PORK 

About 8 o'clock place two or three pounds of pork chop in the 
spider to fry, not cooking thoroughly. Remove them to a kettle, 
cover with water, boil slowly. Just before removing thicken with 
flour. Salt to taste. A Friend 

STUFFED PORK 

Take a sparerib of pork. Have the bones removed. Make a 
dressing as for turkey. Fill the vacancy, and bake slowly four or 
five hours. A Friend 

MEAT LOAF 

Two eggs, two pounds meat, one-half pound ham, two cups 
milk, one cup of cracker crumbs, piece of butter, pepper and poultry 
dressing. Mrs. Geo. D. Lawson 

BEEFSTEAK PIE 

A very palatable dish can be made by taking bits of beefsteak, 
putting in a spider, covering with cold water, and simmer slowly. 
When nearly tender put in sliced potatoes and one small onion sliced. 
Line a deep dish with paste, put in the meat, potatoes and onions, 
stir a little flour in the gravy, put in bits of butter, little salt, cover 
with paste and bake thirty minutes. M. E. F. 

BEEF LOAF 

Two pounds of Hamburg steak, eight crackers rolled fine, one 

cup of milk, one ^gg, two tablespoonfuls of poultry seasoning, two 

teaspoonfuls of salt. Work all this into the meat, form into a loaf 
and bake one hour and a half in buttered tin. 

MEAT BALLS 

One bowl full of finely chopped cold meat, add one cup of 
bread or cracker crumbs, a little chopped onion, a little gravy mixed 
with the crumbs to moisten them. Season with pepper and salt and 
fry in balls. Mrs. Lindsay 



12 MEATS, FISH, ETC. 

BEEFSTEAK PIE 

Two pounds of steak cut into pieces two inches square, put in 
a saucepan with a pint of boiling water, seasoned with salt. Cook 
until tender, strain meat from liquor and separate the fibre as much 
as possible. Put the meat into deep dish, with sides lined with 
mashed potato, pour over it liquor thickened with flour, cover with 
mashed potato. Sprinkle small pieces of butter over top and bake 
until brown. 

MEAT FOR LUNCHEON 

Two and one-half pounds of stewing meat, half a pound of ham, 
two eggs, one cup of milk, five crackers rolled fine, a little salt and 
pepper; chop the meat and ham together and make into a loaf and 
bake. 

FRICASSEE OF BEEF 

Slice rare cold beef. To what gravy you may have, add water, 
salt, a bit of butter, a small pinch of pepper, when it boils enough 
brown flour to thicken slightly. Lay in the slices of beef and stew 
a few moments. Mrs. Lindsay 

TO FRY LIVER 

Fry two slices of salt pork crisp, then lay in the liver and fry 
well. Serve with salt and pepper, or fry two or three onions and 
cover the liver with them and simmer a few minutes. Mrs. Lindsay 

VEAL LOAF 

To three pounds of veal add six crackers, one or two eggs, a 
piece of butter the size of an &gg, or one-quarter pound of salt pork. 
Chop fine, season with salt, pepper and sage. Bake two or three 
hours in a loaf. To be eaten cold. 

CREAMED CHICKEN 

Boil chicken until tender then break in small pieces. Roll four 
crackers and butter a deep dish, put in a layer of cracker crumbs and 
then one of chicken, put pepper, salt, butter and cream, continue this 
until the dish is filled. When finished, put butter and cream on top 
of the cracker crumbs. Put in the oven and brown nicely. 

FRICASEED CHICKEN 

Boil in salted water until tender. Remove large bones, dredge 
with salt, pepper, and flour and brown in butter. Serve on toast. 
Pour over it all the sauce or gravy made of the broth (in which 
the chicken was cooked), thickened with flour, one tablespoonful to 
a pint; celery salt and lemon juice may be added. 



MEATS, FISH, ETC. I3 

HAM AND EGG SCALLOPS 

Chop cold ham and bread crumbs in equal quantities, add pepper, 
salt and a spoonful of melted butter to the mince, and milk enough 
to moisten to a thick paste. Have muffin rings well greased and 
half fill them with this mixture. Break an egg carefully on the top 
of each cake, dust with pepper and salt, cover with finely powdered 
bread crumbs and bake about eight minutes. 

HAM ON TOAST 

One cup chopped boiled ham, mixed with two beaten eggs; 
scald one pint milk into which stir the mixture together with a 
piece of butter the size of an egg and a little pepper. 

HAM TOAST 

Melt a quarter of a cup of butter in a stew pan until browned 
a little. Put in two cups of finely minced ham and add enough 
gravy to make it moist. When quite hot, stir in one egg quickly 
with a fork and add salt to taste. Spread the mixture over slices 
of buttered toast and place in the oven a few minutes to brown. 

SMOTHERED HAM 

Soak as many slices of ham as required in tepid water until 
sufficiently freshened, dredge with flour and put in a dripping pan 
and bake in the oven until the fat is crisp and brown. If the dredg- 
ing of flour is not too much, the steam and liquid from the ham will 
moisten the flour and makes a pufify crust, which keeps the meat 
soft and tender. 

VEAL CROQUETTES 

One solid cupful meat, two tablespoonfuls cornstarch (rounding 
spoonfuls), one large tablespoonful butter, one cup milk, one tea- 
spoonful salt, one-half teaspoonful celery salt, little cayenne, one 
tablespoonful lemon juice, one tablespoonful chopped parsley, little 
onion juice, one egg. Roll in fine bread crumbs again. A little milk 
can be added to the egg. One tablespoonful meat is enough for a 
croquette. 

BEEF LOAF 

Two pounds beef, one-half pound ham, two eggs, two cups 
milk, one cup cracker crumbs. Chop beef and ham, mix thoroughly, 
season to taste. Bake one and one-half hours. This makes two 
loaves. Mrs. Stephen Jackson 



14 MEATS, FISH, ETC. 

FRTCASEE OF LAMB 

Cook slowly three pounds of lamb (from the forequarter), cut in 
pieces until tender. Season with salt and pepper and dredge with 
flour and brown in butter. Arrange on platter and pour over brown 
sauce. Mrs. H. Goff 

HAM CROQUETTES 

One cupful of finely chopped cooked ham, one cup bread crumbs, 
two cups hot mashed potatoes, one large tablespoonful butter, two 
eggs, speck of pepper. Beat ham, pepper, butter, one egg, into 
potato, let cool and shape into croquettes; roll in bread crumbs, dip 
in the other egg beaten, and again in the crumbs, and plunge into 
boiling fat. Cook two minutes. Drain and serve. 



FISH BALLS 



One pint potatoes cut fine, one cup picked fish, cook until tender, 
then drain and beat up with a silver fork, add an egg or a little 
flour, butter, salt and pepper, make flat balls, roll in flour, cook in fat. 

FISH CUSTARD 

Two cups of mashed potatoes, one large cup of shredded salt 
codfish, two cups of milk, one tablespoonful of butter, two eggs 
well beaten, a .dash of pepper. Stir well together and bake three- 
quarters of an hour. 

ESCALLOPED OYSTERS 

Three cups of fine cracker crumbs, one quart of oysters. Butter 
a deep dish and put in a layer of crackers, add pepper, salt and 
small pieces of butter, then a layer oysters, and so on in alternate 
layers of crackers and oysters. Cover the last layer well with butter, 
add the oyster liquor and pour milk over the whole. Bake one hour. 

ESCALLOPED OYSTERS 

Butter a deep dish, and cover the bottom and sides with fine 
crumbs of bread. Put in half the oysters, with pepper and salt, and 
cover with bread crumbs and small bits of butter; add the rest of 
the oysters, with pepper and salt, and cover as before. Bake a quart 
of oysters one-half hour, with a brisk fire. 

BAKED FISH 

Put fish in pan, butter the fish, and put in milk enough to bake 
brown. A Friend 



MEATS, FISH, ETC. 15 

ESCALLOPED HALIBUT 

One pint boiled halibut, one pint milk, two tablespoons flour, two 
tablespoons butter, one teaspoon salt. Make a sauce of the milk 
thickened with the butter and flour, add salt. Fill a buttered dish 
wdth alternate layers of sauce and shredded fish. Stir one-half cup 
bread crumbs into one tablespoon butter, spread over top, and bake 
twenty minutes. Mrs. H. Goff 

FISH 

One and three-fourths cups cold flaked fish, one cup white sauce, 
bit of bay leaf, one-half slice onion, salt and pepper, one-half cup 
buttered cracker crumbs. Scald milk, for the white sauce, with bay 
leaf and onion, then add to flour and butter. Usually I add milk 
cold, but in this case you need to get out the flavor of onion and 
bay leaf. Free Church Friend 



VEGETABLES 



Better is a dinner of herbs where love is, than a stalled ox and hatred therewith." 

 Proverbs 



SCALLOPED TOMATOES 

Butter a baking dish; put in a layer of bread crumbs or pounded 
crackers, then a layer of tomatoes; season with salt and pepper and 
butter well. Continue to ido so until the dish is full, having crumbs 
on top. Plenty of butter on top and pour boiling water over. Bake 
thirty minutes. N. H. F. 

MACARONI CROQUETTES 

One pint boiled macaroni well drained; moisten with one cup 
heavy white sauce (like chicken croquettes), and one egg beaten. 
Season with salt and pepper, and one-fourth to one-half cup grated 
cheese. Shape when cool. Rice or hominy, well cooked, can be used 
also. Mrs. G. A. Christie 

ESCALLOPED ONIONS 

Peel (under water), scald in soda water (one-half teaspoonful 
soda to one quart boiling water), drain, put in boiling salted water, 
cook till soft, changing water as needed. Drain thoroughly, cut in 
pieces, mix with white sauce to moisten well, put in pudding dish, 
cover with buttered crumbs, bake till brown. Mrs. G. A. Christie 

MASHED POTATO 

Mix with one egg beaten, roll in a little ball, and fry in butter. 

A Friend 
CREAMED POTATOES 

One large cup of milk and one tablespoonful of flour to one pint 
of thinly sliced cold potatoes; stir the flour in a little cold milk and 
add to the remainder of the milk when hot. Season with salt, pepper, 
and a little butter, then put in the potatoes and when thoroughly 
heated, serve at once. 

POTATO CROQUETTES 

Two cups of cold mashed potatoes, free from lumps, two eggs 
beaten to a froth, one tablespoonful of melted butter, salt and pepper 
to taste. Form into cakes, roll in beaten egg and cracker crumbs 
and fry in hot lard. 



l8 VEGETABLES 

ESCALLOPED POTATOES 

Peel and slice thin as for frying. Butter an earthen dish, put in 
a layer of potatoes and season with pepper, salt, butter, and a bit 
of onion chopped fine, sprinkle on a little flour. Now put on another 
layer of potatoes and seasoning. Continue in this way till the dish 
is filled. Just before putting in the oven, pour a cupful of milk over 
it. Bake three-quarters of an hour. 

KENTUCKY POTATOES 

Six medium-sized potatoes, one teaspoonful salt, little pepper, 
butter size of an egg. Slice potatoes very thin, and soak one-half 
hour before using. Bake one and one-half hours. 

POTATO BALLS 

Mash six boiled potatoes fine, stir into them one egg and a little 
salt and small piece of butter. Have fresh boiled potatoes and they 
mash easier, and make them into flat cakes, and fry them in nice 
drippings after rolling them in cracker crumbs. 

POTATO PUFF 

To two cups of boiled mashed potatoes allow two well-beaten 
eggs, two tablespoons melted butter, and one cup sweet milk; beat 
all together until very light, then add about a cupful of cold meat, 
chopped very fine. After mixing thoroughly, put it into a shallow 
baking dish, and bake for from twenty minutes to half an hour. Salt 
fish can be used in place of the meat. Mrs., F. A. W. 

CABBAGE FIT FOR A KING 

Cut a small cabbage into small pieces, put into boiling water 
with one teaspoon soda, and boil one-half hour. Drain and add one 
cup milk thickened with a little flour, boil up once, add salt, butter, 
and pepper to taste and serve hot. Mrs. H. Goflf 

SPINACH 

Pick over, cut oflf tough portions of stalk and yellow or withered 
leaves. Wash in several waters and drain. To retain all juices cook 
with little or no water. When tender, drain and chop fine. Season 
with butter, salt and pepper, or serve with oil and vinegar. 

Mrs. G. A. Christie 



VEGETABLES Ip 

CRANBERRIES 

One quart berries, one pint sugar, one cup water. Cook in granite 
pan, putting in washed berries first, then sugar, then water. Cover, 
and cook ten minutes after boiling begins. Mash any berries which 
do not burst (with wooden spoon). Pour into an earthen mould, 
and when cold the jelly will keep its shape. Mrs. G. A. Christie 



SALADS 



A curious compound, neither sweet nor sour, with a flavor all its own." 

Anon. 



CREAM SALAD DRESSING 

Two eggs, three tablespoonfuls vinegar, one of cream, one of 
sugar, one-fourth of salt, one-fourth of mustard. Beat the eggs well, 
add sugar, salt, and mustard, then the vinegar, and the cream. Place 
the bowl in a basin of boiling water, and stir until it thickens, like 
rich cream; it will take about five minutes. Then cool, and use as 
needed. Mrs. Geo. D, Lawson 

SALAD DRESSING 

Two tablespoonfuls butter, one teaspoonful flour, one cup milk, two 
eggs, one teaspoonful salt, one teaspoonful mustard, small one-half 
cup vinegar. Mrs. Ellsworth Pierce 

SALAD DRESSING 

One tablespoonful sugar, one tablespoonful of salt, one small 
tablespoonful mustard, one tablespoonful butter, three eggs, one tea- 
cupful of milk, one teacupful of vinegar. Mix all together and put 
in a bowl in a vessel of boiling water, and stir until the mixture is 
of the consistency of cream. Mrs. Paine 

SALAD DRESSING 

One tablespoonful mustard, one tablespoonful sugar, one tea- 
spoonful salt, one teaspoonful flour, two tablespoonfuls butter, three 
eggs beaten into paste, two-thirds cup new milk, one-half cup vine- 
gar added just before cooking. Cook in double boiler, as you would 
custard. Mrs. J. Newton Cole 

BOILED SALAD DRESSING 

One tablespoonful butter, one tablespoonful flour, one-half cup 
vinegar cooked together like a white sauce. Sift in one teaspoonful 
each sugar salt, and mustard, and a speck of cayenne. Mix two 
eggs, yolks (or one egg) beaten, with one cup hot milk, and cook 
like a soft custard. Then mix the sauce and custard with an egg 
beater, but without further cooking. Strain. Keep in glass jars. 

Mrs. G. A. Christie 



22 SALADS 

WALDORF SALAD 

Two bunches celery chopped fine, ;six large apples, one-half 
pound salted almonds, pepper and salt to taste, mayonaise dressing. 

Madame Higgins 

CHICKEN SALAD 

Take the meat of one boiled or roasted chicken, chop, but not 
too fine, and four tablespoonfuls vinegar, two tablespoonfuls oil, 
one teaspoonful salt, and one-half teaspoonful pepper. Set in a cold 
place for two hours or more. Cut fine as much celery as there was 
unprepared chicken. When ready to serve mix celery and chicken 
and pour over all a salad dressing. A suitable garnish is made by 
using lettuce and celery together. 

A GOOD SALAD DRESSING 

One egg, half cup vinegar, half cup milk, one teaspoon mustard, 
one tablespoon salt. Let it get hot before adding milk. Beat all 
together when it begins to boil up, add a tablespoonful of butter, 
stirring rapidly two minutes. Then set away to cool. 

Janet Blythe Tough 

SALAD DRESSING 

Two teaspoons mustard, two teaspoons sugar, two teaspoons 
corn starch, one teaspoon salt, one-half cup vinegar, small piece 
butter, one egg well beaten, and one cup water, and dash of cayenne 
pepper. Mix all the ingredients with a little cold water before adding 
the egg and vinegar and cook in a double boiler. Mrs. Thos. Peters 
CABBAGE SALAD 

A good relish is made by pouring salad dressing over half a 
cabbage which has been chopped very fine. 

SALAD DRESSING 

One tablespoonful sugar, one tablespoonful salt, one small 
spoonful mustard, one small spoonful butter, three eggs, one cup 
milk or cream, one cup vinegar. Put butter, salt, sugar, and mustard 
in a bowl. Stir until smooth. Add eggs and beat vvell. Add milk 
and vinegar. Place the bowl in hot water and stir until the mixture 
i^ like cream. 



BREAD, ROLLS, Etc. 



" Eat bread before you eat pie." 



ENTIRE WHEAT BREAD 

For two large loaves, allow two quarts of flour, one and a half 
pints of warm water, one tablespoon sugar, one tablespoon butter, 
one-half tablespoon salt, one-half cake of compressed yeast, or one- 
half cup of homemade yeast. Measure the flour before sifting, then 
sift it into a bowl, setting aside a cupful to be used in kneading the 
bread, add sugar, salt, then the yeast, softened in the water, and 
last the butter slightly softened. Beat all together and let rise. 

Mrs. Walter Donald 

OATMEAL BREAD 

Scald one cup rolled oats with one pint boiling water, and let 
stand one hour. Add tablespoonful of shortening, one-half cup 
molasses, one tablespoonful salt, one-half yeastcake dissolved in one- 
third cup lukewarm water, and one quart flour. Let rise, shape, rise 
again, and bake in a quick oven. M. E. Todd 

ROLLED OAT BREAD 

Put two cups of rolled oats in bread pan and pour on one quart 
of boiling water. Let stand until lukewarm, then add one cup of 
molasses, one yeastcake dissolved in a little water, salt, a great 
spoonful lard, eight cups flour; mould a little; let rise over night; in 
the morning mould and put in pans to rise. This will make two large 
or three small loaves. Mrs. Henry A. Russell 

BREAD RUSKS 

One cup of milk, one-half cup of sugar, two eggs, one-half yeast- 
cake. Make thin as fritters, rise till morn, put in flour enough to 
mould, let rise till noon and cut out as biscuits and let them stand 
until ready to bake. Mrs. J. Newton Cole 

BREAKFAST GEMS 

Sift together one and one half cupfuls of whole wheat flour, two 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one tablespoonful of sugar, one half 
teaspoonful of salt, beat one egg thoroughly and add it to one cup 
of milk and one tablespoonful of melted butter, stir the two mixtures 
together and bake in well greased pans about one half hour. 

Miss Sears 



26 BREAD, ROLLS, ETC. 

BREAKFAST GEMS 

Three cups of flour, one large tablespoon sugar, two teaspoons 
cream of tartar, one teaspoon soda, one teaspoon salt, one egg, one 
large tablespoon melted butter, one cup milk. Mix and sift ingredi- 
ents, add egg, butter, and milk, and beat thoroughly. Bake in 
gem pans. Mrs. H. Gofif 

BROWN BREAD 

Two cups Indian meal, two cups rye meal, one cup flour, three 
cups milk, nearly one cup molasses, one teaspoonful soda, salt. Steam 
three hours. A Friend 

BROWN BREAD 

Two cups Indian meal, one cup rye meal, one cup flour, one cup 
molasses, three cups milk, one teaspoon soda, one teaspoon salt, one- 
half teaspoon cream of tartar. Steam three hours. Mrs. D. Leslie 

BROWN BREAD 

One cup molasses, three cups cold water, two large teaspoonfuls 
soda, one teaspoonful salt, two cups Indian meal, one cup graham, 
two cups pastry flour. Steam three and one-half or four hours. 

Mrs. Fred Gofif 
BROWN BREAD 

One pint corn meal, one pint rye or graham meal (or one cup rye, 
one cup white flour), one-half teaspoon salt, one teaspoon soda, one 
cup molasses, one cup sour milk, one cup water; use a little more 
water if very stifif. Steam two or three hours. Bake one hour. 

Mrs. G. A. Christie 
BROWN BREAD 

One cup of Indian meal, two cups of rye meal, one cup of flour, 
one cup of molasses, one cup of raisins, two and a half cups milk or 
water, one teaspoonful salt, one teaspoonful soda. Steam three 
hours. Mrs. J. Newton Cole 

BROWN BREAD 

One pint corn meal, one pint graham meal, salt, one teaspoon 
soda, one cup molasses, one cup sour milk, one cup water. Use a 
little more water if very istifif. Madam Higgins 

BUNS 

One cup of sugar, one cup of milk, one cup of yeast, flour to 
make a batter. When raised stir in one half cup each of lard, milk 
and sugar, currants to taste, flour to make stifif. Drop them in a pan 
and raise till light, then bake. N. H. F. 



BREAD, ROLLS, ETC. Z^ 

BUNS 

One and one-half cups sugar, one cup milk, one-half cup butter, 
one cup yeast, add flour to make a thin batter. When raised, add one 
teaspoonful lemon and good half cup currants and more flour to 
make a stiff dough. Let rise again, then cut in rounds, and put in 
pan and raise. A Friend 

CORN CAKE 

Two cups meal, one-half cup flour, one-half cup sugar, two cups 
milk, butter size of an t^z^ oiie e&& salt, one teaspoonful cream of 
tartar, one-half teaspoonful soda. 

CORN CAKE (THIN) 

One cup yellow corn meal, one-fourth cup sugar, one-half tea- 
spoonful salt, one cup flour, three level teaspoonfuls baking powder, 
one t^z^ one cup milk, one tablespoonful melted butter. Mix in the 
order given, and bake in two Washington pie tins, spreading the 
mixture thick enough to half fill the pan. Mrs. Chas. W. Richardson 

CORN OYSTERS 

One pint corn cut from the cob, one ^%z, six tablespoonfuls milk, 
salt to taste. Add enough flour to make a batter. Fry like oysters, 
dropping a spoonful into the fat at a time. Mrs. H. A. Russell 

CORN FRITTERS 

One cup corn pulp or canned corn chopped, one-half teaspoon 
salt, one-half teaspoon pepper, one t^% well beaten, one-fourth cup 
flour. A tablespoonful or more of milk if needed. Fry in small cakes 
on a griddle, or in deep fat. Serve with meat. Mrs. G. A. Christie 

RICE CAKES 

One cup cold boiled rice, one pint flour, one teaspoon salt, and 
milk to make tolerably thick batter. Beat all together well and bake 
on griddle. Mrs. D. Leslie 

POPOVERS 

One cup flour, one saltspoonful salt, one cup milk, one ^^^, yolk 
and white beaten separately. Mix salt with the flour, add part of the 
milk slowly until a smooth paste is formed, add the remainder of 
milk with the beaten yolk, and lastly the white beaten to a stifif 
froth. Cook in hot buttered gem pans or earthen cups in a quick over 
half an hour, or until the puffs are brown and well popped over. 



28 BREAD, ROLLS, ETC. 

OATMEAL DROP CAKES 

One cup sugar, two-thirds cup butter, one-half cup sour milk, two 
cups rolled oats, two cups flour, two eggs, one teaspoon soda^ one- 
half teaspoon cinnamon. Drop in teaspoonfuls on a buttered tin and 
bake in a quick oven. Mrs. F. A. W. 

MUFFINS 

Two cups flour, one egg, three teaspoons of baking powder, two 
tablespoons melted butter, a little salt. Mrs. D. Leslie 

MUFFINS 

One egg, two tablespoons sugar, one cup of milk, two cups of 
any kind of flour, two teaspoons baking powder, and a little salt. 

? Mrs. Donald 

RYE MEAL MUFFINS 

Stir well together one cup each of rye meal and flour, two tea- 
spoons of baking powder, one tablespoon sugar, a teaspoon of salt; 
add gradually one cup of sweet milk to which one beaten egg has 
been added. Beat well, pour into greased muflin pans and bake about 
one half hour. Mrs. Charles G. Hussey 

RYE MUFFINS 

One egg, three tablespoons sugar, two-thirds cup rye meal, one 
cup flour, one teaspoon soda, two teaspoons cream of tartar, one-half 
teaspoon salt, one cup milk. Mrs. W. B. Holt 

POPOVERS 

Two eggs, two cups flour, two cups milk, one-half teaspoon baking 
powder, a little salt. Mrs. D. Leslie 

PANCAKES 

One pint of sour milk, two-thirds cup of sugar, three eggs, pinch 
of salt, a little nutmeg, one tablespoonful of melted lard, small tea- 
spoonful of soida, flour to make a thin batter; fry in boiling lard, 

M. E. F. 

CINNAMON BISCUIT 

Take of raised dough enough for a pan of biscuit, roll out and 
spread on butter and sift on cinnamon. Cut in strips and roll in 
shape and put sugar on top. Let them rise and bake in a moderate 
oven. Grandma Poor 



BREAD, ROLLS, ETC. 29 

SWEDISH BISCUIT 

One-half bowl flour, one teaspoonful sugar, one egg, one-fourth 
cup melted butter, one-fourth yeastcake, salt, scalded milk, make 
light bread. Let rise over night. Mrs. Smart 

BERRY BISCUIT 

One quart flower, one quart berries, two eggs, one cup sugar, two 
heaping teaspoonfuls of cream tartar, one teaspoonful soda. Mix 
soft with sour milk; one large spoonful butter. Mrs. Elsworth Pierce 

TREMONT WHORTLEBERRY BREAD 

Three cups flour, one cup milk, two cups berries, one half cup 

sugar, salt, two small teaspoonfuls soda, bake quick. To be eaten 
hot. A Friend 

CHRISTMAS BREAD 

Four pounds flour, one-half pound butter, one-half pound lard, 
one and one-half pounds white sugar, one pound raisins, one pound 
currants, one nutmeg, two teaspoonfuls cassia, one teaspoonful mace, 
one-fourth pound citron, six eggs, salt, milk to mix like bread, one- 
fourth pound baking powder, mix with the flour. This will make 
six loaves. 

COFFEEROLLS 

One pint hot milk, one-half cup butter and lard mixed, one tea- 
spoon salt, half a cup of yeast, one egg, mix with a knife as soft as 
can be handled, and cut it thoroughly. In the morning knead well, 
make into large balls, then roll each piece between the hands into 
rolls, six inches long, place then so as they will not touch each other 
in the pan; after rising, when light, bake in hot oven. 

MOTHER'S ROLLS 

One pint milk, two tablespoonfuls sugar, one yeastcake, salt, a 
little lard. Make a sponge; let them rise, then stiffen them, and let 
rise again, then put in the tin. 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS. I 

Boil a pint of milk, melt in it a tablespoonful of butter. When 
the milk becomes cool, stir in one-half a yeastcake and flour enough 
to make a thick batter; add a little salt. Let rise over night, and 
in the morning add flour enough to knead it; do this until it is very 
smooth and let it stand till the middle of the day. then shape into 
rolls. If the dough is very light, set the pan of rolls in a cool place 
until an hour before tea. Bake in a quick oven. Mrs. G. A. C. 



30 BREAD, ROLLS, ETC. 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS. II 

One pint milk, piece of butter size of walnut, three-fourths yeast- 
cake, teaspoonful salt. Scald milk, and melt butter in it. Wait until 
cool and then add yeast. Put in flour enough to make a thin batter. 
Let rise till light. Roll out, sprinkle on melted butter, cut out, put 
into pans, let rise. Bake in hot oven twenty minutes. 

Mrs. G. W. McDonald 

OATMEAL BREAD 

One quart of boiling water turned on one pint of rolled oats. 
Let stand until cool, then add three-fourths of a yeastcake dissolved 
in a little water, one-half cup of molasses, two quarts of sifted flour, 
salt to taste. Rise over night, stir down, rise again, stir down, drop 
in bread tins, let rise again and bake. Mrs. G. A. C. 

SALLY LUNDS 

One pint of flour, one-half pint of sweet milk, two tablespoons 
melted butter, one tablespoon of sugar, one egg, a little salt, one 
teaspoon soda and two of cream tartar. Beat sugar and egg, then 
add butter. Sift flour, soda, cream of tartar and salt together, and 
mix in alternately with milk. Bake in muffin tins. A. S. Coutts 

CHEESE STICKS 

One cup grated cheese, one cup flour, butter size of an egg, salt 
to taste, cayenne, just a pinch, water enough to roll out one-quarter 
inch thick. Cut in strips four or five inches long. (Melt your butter.) 
Quick oven. Madam Higgins 

FRENCH RUSKS 

Two cups scalded milk, one-fourth cup butter, one-fourth cup 
sugar, one teaspoon salt, one yeastcake dissolved in one-fourth cup 
lukewarm water, flour, one egg, yolks two eggs, whites two eggs, 
three-fourths tablespoon vanilla. Pour scalded milk on sugar and 
salt; when lukewarm add dissolved yeastcake and three cups of flour. 
Cover and let rise, add butter and egg yolks well beaten, and enough 
flour to knead. Let rise again and shape as Parker House rolls. 
Before baking make three parallel creases on each roll. When nearly 
done brush over whites of eggs beaten, slightly diluted with table- 
spoonful cold water and vanilla, sprinkled with suear. 

Elizabeth Gordon 



EGGS 



The vulgar boil, the learned roast an egg." 
Pope 



CURRIED EGGS 

Two tablespoons butter, one ounce flour, one tablespoon curry 
powder, one-half teaspoon salt, one pint hot milk, white of one tgg 
beaten. Melt butter, add flour and seasonings and hot milk gradually, 
then beaten white. Arrange hard-boiled eggs, either halved or sliced 
on a hot platter, pour mixture over them, and grate over all the yoke 
of one hard boiled Q.gg. 

EGG ON TOAST 

One cup milk, yolks four eggs, whites four eggs, pepper, salt^ 
butter. Boil milk in double boiler, season with pepper, salt and 
butter. Beat yolks and pour over them boiling milk. Return to 
boiler anid cook as for custard. Then add whites beaten to a stiff 
froth. Cook enough to set them and serve on toast. 

OMELET 

Four eggs, one cupful milk, one tablespoonful flour, one-half 
teaspoonful salt. Beat eggs separately, whites beaten stiff. Smooth 
the flour in a little of the milk and beat thoroughly with the yolks. 
Last, fold in beaten whites of the eggs. Turn into a hot buttered 
omelet pan. Lift edge occasionally with a knife lest it burn. When 
the omelet has risen fully, place in the oven to dry the top. Fold 
once and serve on hot platter. Garnish with parsley. 

OMELET 

Two eggs, one-half cup milk, one-half cup bread crumbs. Soak 
crumbs in milk, add yolks, beat the whites stiff, mix in just before 
cooking. Salt, pepper. Mrs. Smart 

OMELET 

Three eggs, one-half cup milk, one teaspoon butter, one even 
teaspoonful flour. Beat yolks of eggs light. Warm milk and dissolve 
butter in it. Mix yolks, flour, butter and milk well together and 
lastly the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Pour mixture 
into hot buttered spider, season with salt and pepper over the top 
and cook covered for a few minutes. When you smell it cooking, 
remove to a cooler part of the stove and finish. Fold and serve. 

Mrs. H. Goff 



34 EGGS 

OMELET 

Two eggs, two tablespoonfuls milk, a little salt and pepper. Beat 
the whites and yolks separately. Mrs. D. Leslie 

OMELET 

Three eggs, three tablespoonfuls flour, one cup milk. Stir yolks 
of eggs, flour and milk together until smooth. Add the whites of 
eggs, beaten stiflF. 



CAKE, COOKIES, Etc. 



The trials and tribulations of the young housewife." 

 Anon 



ANGEL CAKE 

Whites of six eggs beaten stiff, three-fourths cup sugar, one- 
half cup flour, one-half teaspoon cream of tartar. Sift flour and cream 
of tartar three or four times; add Hour last. Flavor. Put in un- 
greased pan and bake forty minutes. Mrs. A. L. 

ANGEL CAKE 

Whites of nine large eggs or ten small ones, one and one-fourth 
cups sifteid granulated sugar, one cup sifted pastry flour, one-half 
teaspoonful cream of tartar, a pinch of salt added to the eggs before 
beating. Beat whites of eggs about one-half, then add cream of 
tartar and beat till very, very stiff. Stir in sugar, then flour, which 
has been sifted five times, stir very lightly; flavor. Put in ungreased 
pan, in moderate oven, and bake from thirty-five to fifty minutes. 

Mrs. Walter Donald 

CAKE  NUMBER ONE 

One-half cup butter, one cup of sugar, two cups of flour, one- 
half cup of milk, one and one-half cups of chopped raisins, two 
teaspoonfuls baking powder, two eggs, well beaten. 

Mrs. Thomas Peters 

CAKE  NUMBER TWO 

One-half cup of butter, two cups of sugar, three cups of flour, 
one cup of milk, one-half cup of citron, three eggs and two teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder. Bake in a moderate oven forty minutes. 

Mrs. Thomas Peters 

CHAIN LIGHTNING CAKE 

Dry mixture all together  One cup sugar, one cup flour, 
rounded measure, one teaspoon baking powder. Wet mixture  One- 
fourth cup melted butter, break two eggs into butter, fill up with 
milk, and one teaspoon vanilla; now put all together and beat with 
egg beater three minutes. Bake in gem pans. Mrs. C. G. Hussey 



CAKE, COOKIES, ETC. 37 

CHOCOLATE CAKE 

One and one-half ciipfuls of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one- 
half of milk, one and three-fourths cups flour, one-fourth pound of 
Baker's chocolate, three eggs, one teaspoonful cream of tartar, one- 
half teaspoonful soda. Scrape the chocolate fine and add five table- 
spoonfuls of sugar to it (this in addition to the cupful and a half). 
Beat the butter to a cream, gradually add the sugar, beating all the 
while. Add three tab/ ^spoonfuls of boiling water to the chocolate 
and sugar, stir over the fire until smooth and glossy, then stir into 
the beaten sugar and butter, add to this mixture theeggs, wellbeaten, 
then the milk and the flour, in which the soda and cream of tartar 
have been thoroughly mixed. Bake twenty minutes in a moderate 
oven. Frosted if you like. Mrs. Lawson 

CHOCOLATE CAKE 

One cup sugar, one tablespoon butter, white of one egg beaten, 
one teaspoon soda, one and three-fourths cups flour, little salt, one 
teaspoon vanilla, one-half cup milk, two squares of chocolate dis- 
solved in half cup of milk. Add the yolk of the egg after the choco- 
late is dissolved. Put all together and bake in loaf. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE 

One-half cup of butter, one cup of sugar, one-half cup of milk, 
one and one-half cups of flour, two eggs, beaten separately, one tea- 
spoonful cream tartar, one-half teaspoonful soda, two and one-half 
tablespoons of chocolate. Dissolve chocolate in a saucer, beat it into 
a little of the cake mixture, then mix with the rest. Flavor. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE 

Three squares of chocolate, grated, or three tablespoons of cocoa. 
If chocolate, melt it, then add a half a cup of milk, let it boil and 
then beat in the yolk of one egg and a piece of butter about the 
size of a walnut; take from the stove and let cool, then add one 
cup of 'sugar, one-half cup of milk, one teaspoon of soda, one tea- 
spoon vanilla, one and three-fourths cups of flour. 

This cake does not require beating. Stir up and bake. Some 
prefer a boiled frosting. Mrs. G. M. Lindsay 

CHOCOLATE CAKE 

One egg, one cup sugar (cream butter and sugar), two table- 
spoonfuls butter, two cups flour, one cup of milk, one teaspoonful 
cream of tartar, one-half teaspoonful of soda, six teaspoonfuls of 
cocoa dissolved in a little warm water. Flavor with teaspoonful of 
vanilla. Mrs. C. W. Richardson 



38 CAKE, COOKIES, ETC. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE 

One cup fine granulated sugar, one-half cup butter, two eggs, 
one-half cup milk, one and one-third cups flour, two level teaspoons 
baking powder, pinch of salt, two squares chocolate. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE 

One cup of sugar creamed with butter the isize of an egg. Add 
one beaten egg, one cup milk, two scant cups flour, sifted with two 
teaspoons baking powder. Add one cup grated chocolate. 

Mrs. Anderson 

CHOCOLATE MARBLE CAKE 

One heaping cup sugar, one-third cup butter, two cups flour, one 
cup chocolate, one egg, one and one-half teaspoonfuls baking powder. 
Take out one-half of this mixture in another dish and add chocolate. 
Flavor light with vanilla, then put in every other spoonful of each. 

Mrs. Thomas Peters 

CIDER FRUIT CAKE 

One lb. flour, one lb. butter, three-fourths lb. sugar, nine eggs, 
two lbs. currants, one lb. citron, one lb. raisins, large teaspoonful 
soda, one cup cider, salt, one cup molasses, one large teaspoonful 
clove, nutmeg. Take more flour for the fruit, and put one cupful 
into cake. Makes four small loaves and will keep all winter. 

Mrs. Jacob Chickering's Rule 

CONCORD CAKE 

One cup sugar, one cup milk, one and one-half cups pastry flour, 
one-half cup butter, two eggs, flavoring, one teaspoon cream tartar, 
one-half teaspoon soda. Mrs, George A. Carter 

CUP CAKE 

One cup isugar, one-half cup butter, two eggs, one-half cup milk, 
two cupo flour, one teaspoon cream of tartar, one-half teaspoon 
baking soda. Mrs. Stiles 

DOLLY VARDEN CAKE 

One cup white sugar creamed with one-half cup butter; add 
whites of three eggs beaten to a stiflF froth, one-half cup milk, two 
cups flour, one-half teaspoonful soda, one teaspoonful cream of 
tartar. Beat the yolks of the eggs with powdered sugar for the 
frosting. Mrs. Fred Gofif 



CAKE, COOKIES, ETC. 39 

MOLASSES CUP CAKE 

One cup sugar, one cup molasses, one cup butter, one cup milk, 
four cups flour, one cup chopped raisins, two teaspoonfuls soda. This 
makes two loaves. Mrs. J. Newton Cole 

CURRANT CAKE 

One and one-half cups sugar, one-half cup butter, one cup milk, 
one cup currants, two eggs, two teaspoons baking powder. 

Mrs. Stiles 
DROP CAKES 

One-half cup sugar, one-half cup molasses, one-half cup butter, 
one-half cup milk, sweet or sour, one teaspoon soda, one egg, about 
one teaspoonful vinegar Stir in flour enough to make a stiff batter. 
Drop in a pan a space apart or use gen pans for them. Miss Sears 

DEVIL CAKE 

Custard Part.  One cup brown sugar, one-half cup sweet milk, 
one cup grated chocolate, the yolk of one egg, one teaspoon vanilla. 
Stir all together in a granite of porcelain saucepan, cook slowly, and 
set away to cool. 

Cake Part.  One cup brown sugar, one-half cup butter, two 
cups flour, one-half cup sweet milk, two eggs. Cream butter, add 
sugar and yolks of eggs, then milk, sifted flour, and whites of eggs 
beaten stiff. Beat all together, and then stir in the custard. This 
makes a large loaf, or it can be baked in layers and put together 
with the filling named below. 

Filling.  One cup brown sugar, one cup white sugar, one cup 
water, one tablespoon vinegar. Boil until thick like candy, then stir 
in the beaten whites of two eggs and a quarter of a pound of fresh 
marshmallows. Boil up again, and use when cold. Mrs. Valpey 

CALIFORNIA DROP CAKES 

One cup sugar, one cup butter, one cup molasses, one cup water, 
four and one-half cups pastry flour, one heaping teaspoonful soda, 
one teaspoonful cinnamon, one teaspoonful clove, currants to taste. 

Mrs. J. Newton Cole 

CALIFORNIA DROP CAKES 

One cup sugar, one cup butter, one cup molasses, one cup water, 
one heaping teaspoonful soda, one teaspoonful cinnamon, one tea- 
spoonful clove, four and one-half cups bread flour, a few currants. 
Drop a small quantity for each cake, and bake quickly. M. E. Todd 



40 . CAKE, COOKIES, ETC. 

VANILLA DROP CAKES 
One cup sugar, one-fourth cup butter, one egg, well beaten, one 
tablespoonful vanilla, ten tablespoonfuls of milk, one and one-half 
teaspoonfuls baking powder, two and one-half cups flour. Drop in 
teaspoonfuls on a tin and bake in a quick oven. 

EGOLESS CAKE 

One cup of sugar, one-half cup butter, one cup sour milk, two 
cups flour, one teaspoonful nutmeg, one of cinnamon, one-half of 
soda and one cup of raisins. Bake three-quarters of an hour in a 
moderate oven. Mrs. Lawson 

NICE CAKE WITHOUT EGGS 

One cup sugar, half a cup butter, one cup milk, two teaspoons 
baking powder, one cup raisins, the same of currants, mace or 
nutmeg. Janet Blythe Tough 

NO EGG CAKE 

One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one cup milk, one cup raisins 
chopped, two and one-half cups flour, one teaspoon cream of tartar, 
one-half teaspoonful soda, cinnamon. Friend 

NO EGG SPICE CAKE 

One cup sugar, butter the size of an egg, one teaspoonful cinna- 
mon, cloves, allspice, and a little nutmeg, one cup 'sour milk, one 
level teaspoonful soda dissolved in milk, flour to make a stiff batter. 
Fruit may be added if liked. Mrs. Whittemore 

FANNIE WHITE'S CAKE (DELICIOUS) 

One-fourth cup butter, three-fourths cup sugar, one-half cup 
milk (large measure), two teaspoons baking powder, one and one- 
half cups flour (small measure), whites of three eggs, one teaspoon 
almond. Cream butter and sugar, add milk, flour and baking powder 
and lastly whites beaten stiff. This cake is better mixed with the 
hands. 

FIG CAKE 

One cup sugar, one tablespoon butter, creamed, two eggs, three- 
fourths cup milk, two small cups flour, two teaspoons baking powder, 
or  if preferred  two teaspoons cream tartar and one teaspoon 
soda. Bake in round pans as for Washington pie. This rule will 
make three round pans of cake. Miss Sears 



CAKE, COOKIES, ETC. 4I 

FEATHER CAKE 

Two eggs (reserve the white of one for frosting, or not), one 
cup sugar, one-Tialf cup sweet milk, three tablespoonfuls butter, one 
and one-half cups flour, one teaspoonful cream tartar, one-half tea- 
spoonful soda, salt. Flavor. 

FREE CHURCH CAKE 

One cup sugar, one-half cup molasses, one cup sour milk, one- 
half cup butter, one teaspoonful soda, one-half teaspoonful cinnamon, 
clove and nutmeg, one-half cup fruit. Mrs. J. Newton Cole 

FRUIT CAKE 

One-half cup butter, three-fourths cup sugar, one-half cup mo- 
lasses, two cups pastry flour, one-half cup milk, one cup raisins, 
chopped, one cup currants, cinnamon, mace, cloves, one-half tea- 
spoonful soda in molasses, two eggs. 

FRUIT CAKE 

One cup butter, one cup sugar, one cup molasses, one cup sweet 
milk, three cups flour, four eggs, one-half teaspoonful cream of tartar, 
one teaspoonful soda, one cup seedless raisins, two cups currants, 
two cups sliced citron, a little nutmeg, cinnamon and cloves. This 
makes two good loaves. Mrs. Baldwin 

DARK FRUIT CAKE 

Three cups chopped apples and two cups molasses; let them 
simmer for two hours. Add one cup sugar, one cup butter, one tea- 
spoonful ground cloves, one teaspoonful ground cinnamon, two tea- 
spoonfuls ground ginger, one teaspoonful baking powder dissolved 
in a cup of hot water, two cups currants, two cups raisins, three 
eggs, more if desired. ]\Iix all thoroughly together with flour to 
thicken quite stiff. Mrs. G. A. Christie 

DARK FRUIT CAKE 

One cup of butter, two-thirds cup of molasses, one and one-half 
cups of sugar, one cup of milk, one and one-half cups of raisins, 
one-half cup of citron, one cup of currants, two eggs, one teaspoonful 
soda, spices to taste. Add flour till you think it is right stiffness. 

Mrs. Thomas Peters 



42 CAKE, COOKIES, ETC. 

DRIED APPLE FRUIT CAKE 

Two cups dried apples cut fine, soaked over night in warm 
water. In the morning put them into a dish with two cups molasses, 
simmer two hours, or until tender, take off and let cool. Add one 
cup butter, two cups sugar, one cup seeded raisins, one cup currants, 
one nutmeg, two teaspoonfuls clove, one cup milk (sweet or sour), 
two teaspoonfuls soda, five large cups flour, four eggs. Mix thor- 
oughly, bake one and one-half hours. Makes two brick loaves. Will 
keep all winter. Very nice. 

DRIED APPLE CAKE 

One and one-half cups sugar, one and one-half cups molasses, 
one cup dried apples, one cup butter, one-half cup sweet milk, three 
eggs, full two and one-half cups or more of flour, two teaspoonfuls 
soda, one cup raisins, citron, two teaspoonfuls cinnamon, one and 
one-half teaspoonfuls clove, one teaspoonful of lemon and vanilla. 
Soak dried apples over night, cook in the molasses until tender, then 
make the cake. Can use evaporated apples but not as nice. 

GERMAN COFFEE CAKE 

Two eggs, one quart milk, scalded, one cup sugar, one cup butter, 
salt, yeastcake, flour enough to mix very stiff. Next morning, flour 
board and roll very thin; let rise until fluffy. Place small portions of 
butter on top and sprinkle cinnamon and sugar on top. Bake in 
moderate oven. Very easily made. Miss Sarah Sears 

GINGERBREAD 

One-half cup of sugar, one-half cup of molasses, one-half cup of 
sour milk, one-fourth cup butter, one and one-half cups flour, one 
teaspoonful ginger, and a little salt. Mix one level teaspoonful soda 
in the sour milk. Mrs. Thomas Peters 

GINGERBREAD 

One cup molasses, one-half cup sugar, one-half cup boiling 
water, one-half cup lard, one egg, salt, one teaspoon soda, one tea- 
spoon ginger, flour. Madam Higgins 

HANNAH'S MOLASSES GINGERBREAD 

Two cups sugar, one cup butter, one cup molasses, five cups 
flour, three eggs, one teaspoonful soda in a cup of milk, all kinds of 
spice. 



CAKE, COOKIES, ETC. 43 

OLD FASHIONED "MUSTER GINGERBREAD" 

One cup molasses, two large spoonfuls butter, one teaspoon soda 
dissolved in three tablespoons hot water, one teaspoon ginger; knead 
well but not hard; roll into sheets, mark with a fork and bake quickly. 
After it is baked and while hot, mix one teaspoonful sweet milk and 
one of molasses and wet the top. Mrs. Anderson 

SUGAR GINGERBREAD 

Two cups sugar, three eggs, one-half cup butter, milk enough 
to dissolve one teaspoonful soda, nutmeg and lemon to your taste, 
flour to make it stiff enough to roll thin. A Friend 

HARRISON CAKE 

Two cups molasses, one cup sugar, one cup butter, one cup sour 
milk, two cups currants, one teaspoon soda, one teaspoon cloves, 
one egg. Melt molasses and butter together. Mrs. Stiles 

HARRISON CAKE (VERY NICE) 

Two and one-half cups molasses, one and one-half cups butter, 
five cups flour, one cup milk, four eggs, two pounds currants, one 
teaspoonful saleratus. Spice to suit the taste. 

JELLY CAKE 

Three eggs, one cup of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of milk, one 
cup of flour, one-half teaspoonful soda, one teaspoonful cream of 
tartar. Roll with jelly while warm. Mrs. J. Newton Cole 

LAYER CAKE 

One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, two eggs, one teaspoonful 
baking powder sifted with one and three-fourths cups flour, teaspoon- 
ful vanilla. Mrs. Whittemore 

LIGHT CAKE 

One and one-fourth cups sugar, three eggs, one-half cup butter, 
one-half cup milk, one and one-half cups flour, one-half teaspoon 
soda, one teaspoon cream tartar. Mix eggs and sugar together, then 
melt the butter and mix. Madam Higgins 



44 CAKE, COOKIES, ETC. 

LIGHTNING CAKE 

Sift together one cup flour, one cup sugar, one heaping teaspoon- 
ful baking powder. Take one-fourth cup of melted butter, add two 
eggs, then fill the cup with sweet milk. Beat quickly and thoroughly 
together, flavor, and bake in a moderate oven. 

MANCHESTER CAKE 

One cup sugar, two-thirds cup butter, four eggs, one-quarter 

teaspoonful soda, one and one-half cups flour, one-half teaspoonful 

cream tartar, citron. N. H. F. 
MARBLE CAKE 

One and one-half cups white sugar, one-half cup butter, beaten 
together; add whites of four eggs well beaten, one-half cup milk, 
two and one-half cups flour, one teaspoonful cream of tartar, one- 
fourth teaspoonful soda. 

Dark Part.  One-half cup butter, one cup brown sugar, yolks 
four eggs, beaten together; add one-half cup milk, one-half cup mo- 
lasses, two and one-half cups flour. Mix with flour one teaspoonful 
of each kind of spice, one teaspoonful cream of tartar, one-fourth 
teaspoonful soda. Mrs. Baldwin 

MORSE CAKE 

Two cups sugar, one-half cup butter, one cup milk, three eggs, 
three cups flour, two teaspoonfuls cream of tartar, one teaspoonful 
soda. Flavor with vanilla. Mrs. Henry Russell 

MOTHER CAKE 

One and one-half cups sugar, one scant cup butter, three eggs, 
beaten, one-half cup milk, three cups flour, one-half teaspoon soda, 
one teaspoon cream tartar. Madam Higgins 

NUT CAKE 

Two cups sugar, one cup butter, one cup sweet milk, three eggs, 
three cups flour, one pound nuts, half-pound raisins, half-pound cur- 
rants, two teaspoons baking powider, nutmeg, or any flavoring you 
like. This makes two loaves. Bake slowly one hour. (I like Eng- 
lish walnuts best.) Janet Blythe Tough 

NUT CAKE 

One cup milk, one cup sugar, one-half cup butter, two cups pastry 
flour, two eggs, one coffee cup chopped raisins, one cup English 
walnuts, one and one-half teaspoons baking powder. Bake in a 
moderate oven. Mrs. Stephen Jackson 



CAKE, COOKIES, ETC. 45 

NUT CAKE 

One and one-half cups of sugar, one-half cup butter, two cups 
flour, two eggs, three-fourths cup sweet milk, one teaspoon cream 
of tartar, one-half teaspoon soda, one cup English walnuts, one cup 
stoned raisins. Beat butter and sugar to a cream; add nuts last. 

Mrs. A. Lamont 

ONE, TWO, THREE, FOUR CAKE 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, three cups pastry flour, four eggs, 
one teaspoon cream of tartar, one-half teaspoon soda, one pound 
raisins, one pound currants, one-fourth pound citron, clove, cinnamon, 
nutmeg. Dissolve soda in a tablespoonful water. Measure the flour 
before sifting. A tablespoonful of molasses may be added if you 
choose. Mrs. Henry A. Gould 

ORANGE CAKE 

Beat to a cream one cup of sugar and one tablespoon of butter, 
beat in one whole egg and the white of another, reserving the yolk 
for frosting, one half cup of milk alternately with one and one-half 
cups of flour, which has been sifted with one teaspoon of baking 
powder and a pinch of salt; lastly add one tablespoon of orange juice 
and one teaspoon of grated rind. Mrs. G. M. Lindsay 

POUND CAKE 

Two-thirds cup butter, one cup sugar, one and one-half cups 
flour, four eggs, one tablespoonful milk, one scant teaspoonful baking 
powder Cream butter and sugar together, and the yolks of the eggs, 
beat till light. Beat the whites to a stiff froth. Mix the powder 
thoroughly with the flour, add a little of this to the cake mixture. 
When well mixed add the milk, then put in alternately the whites 
and flour. Bake in a moderate oven thirty-five or forty minutes. 

A Friend 

SILVER CAKE 

One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one-fourth teaspoon soda 
dissolved in one-half cup milk, whites of five eggs, three-fourths 
teaspoon cream of tartar mixed in two cups flour. Beat the whites 
of the eggs very stiff and dry. 

Yolks of the eggs and the same ingredients make gold cake. 
Season the silver cake with peach and the gold with lemon. 

Mrs. C. G. Hussey 



46 CAKE, COOKIES, ETC. 

RIBBON CAKE 

Two cups sugar, two-thirds cup butter, one cup milk, three cups 
flour, three eggs, two teaspoonfuls cream of tartar, one teaspoonful 
soda. Put half the cake in the tin; the other half add one table- 
spoonful of molasses, one large spoonful of flour, one cup of raisins 
chopped, a little of all kinds of spice. Flavor with lemon one-half 
of it. 

SOUR MILK CAKE 

One-half cup sugar, one-half cup molasses, one-half cup sour 
milk, two cups flour, one teaspoonful soda, one teaspoonful mixed 
spices. Mix, then beat in one egg, add one-half cup cut raisins. 

SOUR MILK CAKE 

One-half cup of butter, one cup of sugar, one egg, one cup of 
sour milk, one teaspoonful of soda, one-half teaspoonful of cinnamon, 
clove and nutmeg, one cup seeded raisins. Flour to make it right 
consistency. Mrs. Charles Clark 

SOUR MILK FRUIT CAKE 

One-half cup molasses, one-half cup sugar, one-half cup lard (or 
butter), one teaspoon soda dissolved in one cup sour milk, one tea- 
spoon salt, two heaping cups of flour, one-half teaspoon of all kinds 
of spices, one cup chopped raisins, one-cup currants, and a little 
citron. Mrs. Walter Donald 

SPONGE CAKE 

Four eggs, one scant cup sugar, one scant cup flour, rind and 
juice of Oi.e lemon, little salt. Add sugar gradually to yolks, alternate 
whites and flour. Bake slowly. 

SPONGE CAKE. NO. 2 

Three-fourths cup sugar, one-fourth cup water, cook a few 
moments to form a syrup; little salt, three eggs, three-fourths cup 
flour, one teaspoonful lemon extract. Beat yolks till thick. Pour 
hot syrup over yolks. Alternate whites and flour. Bake thirty-five 
or forty minutes. 

SPONGE CAKE 

Two eggs separated, one cup sugar, one-half cup ice water, one 
and one-half cups flour, one teaspoonful flavoring, one teaspoonful 
baking powder. Beat yolks and sugar to a foam, add water, then 
flour, last the stiff whites, and flavor. Mrs. Thomas Peters 



CAKE, COOKIES, ETC. 47 

^ SPONGE CAKE 

One and one-half cups sugar, three eggs, two cups pastry flour, 
one-half cup cold water, two small teaspoons baking powder, one 
teaspoon lemon. Bake in quick oven. Mrs. George A. Carter 

SPONGE CAKE 

One cup sugar, six eggs, one-half cup cold water, one cup flour, 
one-eighth teaspoon soda, one-fourth teaspoon cream of tartar. Beat 
sugar and yolks of eggs until creamy, add water, beat until sugar is 
dissolved, tnen add the flour, which has been sifted several times, 
wdth soda and cream of tartar. Beat in whites of eggs, whipped stiff. 
Bake in slow oven forty minutes. A. S. Coutts 

SPONGE CAKE 

One and one-half cups sugar, two even cups of flour, four eggs, 
one teaspoon baking powder. Mix and add one-third of a cup of hot 
water. ^ Mrs. Anderson 

SPONGE CAKE 

One and one-half cups sugar, yolks of four eggs. Add sugar 
little at a time, beat whites stiff and add to the sugar and yolks. 
One-half cup cold water, one-half teaspoon soda, flavoring, two cups 
flour with one teaspoon cream of tartar sifted in it. Will not fall 
if you move in the oven. Madam Higgins 

SPONGE CAKE FOR CHILDREN 

Mix in a bowl a cup and a half of pastry flour, one teaspoonful 
of cream of tartar and half a teaspoonful of soda, sifted with the 
flour, one cup of sugar, and one teaspoonful extract of lemon or 
orange; two eggs, broken in a cup and the cup filled with milk or 
cream. Mix all in the order given, and beat very hard until light. 
Bake from twenty to thirty minutes in a moderate oven. 

CHICAGO SPONGE CAKE 

Two eggs, one sup sugar, one cup flour, three-eights cup water, 
one level teaspoonful baking powder, salt, lemon. Beat the yolks 
of eggs until thick; add gradually the sugar and lemon, and beat 
again; add water, egg whites beaten to a stiff froth, then the flour, 
baking powder and salt mixed and sifted together. Bake in cake 
pan forty-five minutes. This is fine and keeps nice. 



48 CAKE, COOKIES, ETC. 

SPONGE CAKE g| 

Two eggs beaten thoroughly, one cup sugar, one cup flour, sifted 
three times. /\dd salt, one heaping teaspoonful baking powder. 
Flavor. Add one-half cup hot milk. Bake twenty minutes. 

Mrs. Stephen Jackson 

REAL SPONGE CAKE 

Three eggs, one cup sugar, one cup flour, salt, lemon. Beat the 
whites stiff and put in the flour. Bake one-half hour. Makes one 
small liDaf. 

HOT WATER SPONGE CAKE 

Six eggs, two cups of sugar, two of pastry flour, one-half cup 
of boiling water, grated rind of one-half a lemon, one teaspoonful of 
the juice. Beat the yolks and sugar to a froth, also beat the whites 
to a stiff froth, add lemon to yolks and sugar, then add boiling 
water, next the whites, last the flour. Bake one-half hour. 

Mrs. Lawson 

SPICE SPONGE CAKE 

One cup sugar, one cup molasses, one cup sour milk, two-thirds 
cup butter, three cups flour, three eggs, one teaspoonful cloves, one- 
half teaspoonful cinnamon, one teaspoonful nutmeg, one teaspoonful 
soda. You can use about one-third lard with the same results, or 
even better. Bake in a slow oven. This cake always comes out nice. 
You can put a soft frosting on it for church suppers. 

SPONGE DROPS 

Three eggs, one and one-half cups of sugar, two of flour, one- 
half cup of cold water, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, one-half 
teaspoonful of saleratus. Flavor with lemon. Mrs. Lawson 

SCRIPTURE CAKE 

Four and one-half cups of I Kings 4:22, one and one-half cups 
of Judges 5:25, latter clause, two cups of Jeremiah 6:20, two cups 
of I Samuel 30:12, two cups of Nahum 3:12, one cup of Numbers 
17:8, two tablespoonfuls I Samuel 14:25. Season to taste with II 
Chronicles 9:9, six of Jeremiah 17:11, a pinch of Levitacus 2:13, one- 
half cup of fudges 4:19, latter clause, two teaspoonfuls Amos 4:5. 
Follow Solomon's receipt for making a good boy. Proverbs 23:14. 



CAKE, COOKIES, ETC. 49 

TAYLOR CAKE 

Half a cupful of butter, two and one-half of sugar, one of milk, 
three of pastry flour, three eggs, one teaspoonful cream of tartar, 
one-half teaspoonful of soda. Flavor to taste. Mrs. Lawson 

TUMBLER CAKE 

One tumbler of butter, one tumbler of molasses, one tumbler 
milk or cream, two tumblers sugar, four eggs, raisins or currants, 
one teaspoonful soda, five tumblers flour, spice of all kinds. 

A Friend 

SPICE CAKE 

One egg, one-half cup butter, one-half cup sugar. Beat well. 
One-quarter cup molasses, one level teaspoonful of soda, one- 
quarter to one-half teaspoonful of cassia, one cup flour. Stir well, 
and add last of all one-half cup of boiling water. This will make the 
batter very thin, but the cake is delicious, and is especially good 
eaten warm. 

WEDDING CAKE, 1900 

One pound butter, one pound sugar, one and one-half pounds 
flour, nine eggs, two pounds raisins, two pounds currants, one-half 
pound citron, two nutmegs, two tablespoonfuls cloves, two table- 
spoonfuls cinnamon, one tablespoonful mace, little rosewater, one 
gill brandy, one teaspoonful soda in a little water. Mrs. Asa Gould 

WHITE CAKE 

With only whites of two eggs, one-fourth cup butter, one cup 
sugar, one-half cup of milk, one and two-thirds cups of flour, one 
and one-half teaspoonfuls baking powder sifted into flour, one-half 
teaspoon of vanilla. Cream butter, add gradually the sugar, add 
vanilla. Beat the whites stiff, add flour to the mixture with milk 
alternately. Bake in a moderate oven. Beat the yolks, and add 
confectioner's sugar, one-half teaspoon of any extract; spread. 

Mrs. Stiles 

DOUGHNUTS 

Two eggs, w-ell beaten, one cup sugar, one cup milk, butter size 
of walnut, add salt and nutmeg, three teaspoonfuls Royal baking 
pow^der, mixed with one quart of flour. Roll one-fourth inch, and 
fry in hot lard. Mrs. Stephen Jackson 



50 CAKE, COOKIES, ETC. 

DOUGHNUTS 

One cup sugar, two eggs well beaten, one cup milk, pinch of 
salt, one-fourth teaspoon of ginger, or nutmeg if preferred, three 
teaspoons baking powder mixed with three cups pastry flour. Add 
more flour until stiff enough to roll. 

DOUGHNUTS 

One cup sugar, one small teaspoon shortening, two eggs, little 
nutmeg or cinnamon, three-fourths cup milk (sweet), three tea- 
spoons baking powder, salt. Flour enough to handle. Fat must 
not be very hot. MRS. JOHN N. COLE 

DOUGHNUTS 

Three eggs beaten light, three tablespoonfuls melted butter, one- 
half cup of sugar, one-half cup of milk, four cups of flour, three tea- 
spoonfuls baking powder, one teaspoonful cinnamon. 

Mrs. Thomas Peters 

DOUGHNUTS 

One cup sugar, one egg, one teaspoon melted butter, pinch 
cinnamon, and a quarter of a nutmeg, grated, a little salt, one cup 
'Sweet milk with one teaspoon soda dissolved in it, one cup flour 
with two teaspoon of cream of tartar sifted in it, and enough more 
flour, when this is mixed thoroughly, to make a dough stiff enough 
to be rolled. Fry in beef suet fat. Mrs. Walter Rhodes 

GOOD DOUGHNUTS 

Rub a small piece of butter into one cup of sugar, add a beaten 
egg, one cup of milk, one full spoon of cream of tartar, one small 
half-spoonful of soda, pinch of salt, flavor with nutmeg and extract 
of lemon; add flour enough to mould and roll out. Let stand an 
hour or longer before frying. Fry in hot lard. 

SOUR MILK DOUGHNUTS 

One and one-half cups of sugar, butter the size of a nutmeg, 
two eggs, one and one-half cups of sour milk, one teaspoon soda, 
one teaspoon salt. Have your soda rounding a little. H the milk 
is very sour, use three tablespoonfuls of melted butter, and about 
six cups of flour. Make dough as soft as possible to roll out. 

Mrs. D. Leslie 



CAKE, COOKIES, ETC. ^t 

RAISED DOUGHNUTS 

One pint milk, one cup yeast, two cups sugar, one piece butter 
size of an egg, one egg, one teaspoonful soda. Mix as stiff as you 
can stir with a spoon. Mrs. Thomas Peters 

FILLING FOR TURNOVERS 

One cup of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of flour or one of corn- 
starch, one scant cup boiling water, one egg, one lemon, grated rind 
and juice, little piece of butter, one-half cup of dry currants. Mix 
flour and sugar and pour on boiling water and cook until clear. 
Add lemon juice and beaten egg, stir currants in last. Omitting 
currants, this can be used for either lemon pie or layer cake. 

BRAMBLES, FILLING 

One cup of raisins, seeded and chopped fine, one egg, one cup 
of sugar, and juice of one lemon. Mix thoroughly, and use as filling 
in turnovers or tarts. Use a rich puff paste. Mrs. J. N. C. 

FIG CAKE FILLING 

One-half pound of figs, chopped very fine, one cup of sugar, two- 
thirds cup water. Boil all together until consistency of jelly. Little 
vanilla and small piece butter. Use third cake, as this receipt will 
make one pie and a half. The third part cut in halves to make half 
a pie. Miss Sears 

MOCHA FILLING 

One cup powdered sugar, two teaspoonfuls Baker's cocoa, one 
teaspoonful vanilla, speck of salt, two tablespoonfuls melted butter, 
one tablespoonful of cold cofifee, sometimes two if necessary. 

Mrs. Whittemore 

MOCHA FILLING 

One-quarter cup butter, two tablespoons strong coffee, one cup 
confectioners sugar, two teaspoons cocoa, one teaspoon vanilla, 
cream all together, cut Washington pie and fill. Frost with same. 

Mrs. Chas. G. Hussey 

WALNUT FILLING 

One cup cream, one cup fine sugar, one cup walnut meats, 
chopped fine. Stir all together and cook until it thickens. Add 
white of one egg well beaten. Spread between and on top of cake 
when cold. More sugar may be necessary. Mrs. Walter Donald 



52 CAKE, COOKIES, ETC. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE EROSTING 

One cup of confectionary sugar, two tablespoonfuls of cocoa. 
Mix together. Two tablespoonfuls liquid cofifee, two tablespoonfuls 
butter. Pour coffee (hot) over butter and stir until melted, then add 
to the sugar and cocoa. Elavor with vanilla. 

Mrs. Chas. W. Richardson 

EROSTING 

One cup sugar, four tablespoonfuls of water, boil until it will 
spin a thread, beat white of an egg to a froth, turn boiling sugar 
on egg and beat at least five minutes. Elavor with vanilla. 

CARAMEL EROSTING 

Two cups sugar, one cup milk, boil ten minutes. Just before 
taking off add piece of butter size of an egg; flavor with vanilla; beat 
until creamy. This makes enough for top of cake and to put between 
layers. When perfectly cold pour over the top of the cake melted 
chocolate. 

CHOCOLATE FROSTING 

Three of four tablespoonfuls cold coffee, mixed with confection- 
ers' sugar. Melt one square of Baker's chocolate and add a piece 
of butter one-half as large as a hickory nut, and a little vanilla. Stir 
this into the coffee and sugar anid frost. Mrs. Valpey 

CHOCOLATE MARBLE CAKE EROSTING 

One cup powdered sugar, one and one-half tablespoonfuls of 
milk, one-half teaspoonful flavoring. Mrs. Thomas Peters 

MOCHA FROSTING 

One cup confectioners' sugar, butter size of walnut, two tea- 
spoons cocoa, one teaspoon vanilla, and two tablespoons hot coffee. 
More sugar may be necessary. Mrs. Walter Donald 

MOCHA FROSTING 

One cup confectioners' sugar, butter size of walnut, two tea- 
spoons cocoa, one teaspoon vanilla, two tablespoons hot coffee, 

Mrs. Paine 
ORANGE CAKE EROSTING 

Yolk of one egg, one teaspoon cold water, orange juice to flavor 
and enough confectioners' sugar to make thick enough to spread. 

Mrs. G. M. Lindsay 



CAKE, COOKIES, ETC. 53 

APPLE FROSTING 

White of one egg, two-thirds cup sugar, beaten stiff. Grate an 
apple and beat together. Mrs. H. A. Russell 

FROSTING 

One cup confectioners' sugar, three dessertspoonfuls of milk. 
Flavoring to isuit. No cooking. Mrs. H. A. Russell 

RAISIN FROSTING 

One cup sugar, four tablespoonfuls of milk, and a little butter. 
Boil three minutes. Have stoned and finely chopped one-half pound 
raisins. Add this to the mixture while it is boiling hot, and pour 
over the cake while it will spread. Mrs. H. A. Russell 

CHOCOLATE CREAM FROSTING 

One cup sugar, one-half cup milk, three or four spoonfuls of 
cocoanut, small piece of butter; boil fifteen minutes. Melt chocolate 
and pour over it. Mrs. C. A. M. 

FROSTING 

One cup sugar, one-third cup water, one egg, white only, one- 
half teaspoon vanilla. Boil sugar and w^ater together until it threads. 
Pour syrup slowly into stifflly beaten white. Beat until cool enough 
to spread. Add flavoring. One square of melted chocolate may be 
added. Mrs. Smart 



GERMAN COOKIES 



One-half cup butter, one cup sugar, three eggs, one-fourth cup 
milk or water, two cups flour, one-half teaspoon soda, one teaspoon 
cream of tartar, one teaspoon vanilla. Put into large roasting pan 
and sift cinnamon and sugar over it. When cool cut in squares. 
Bake in moderately hot oven. Mrs. W. B. Holt 

SUGAR COOKIES 

Two cups butter, four cups sugar, one cup milk, two teaspoon- 
fuls soda, one egg, flavor to suit taste. Flour to roll out. Mrs. Gould 

COUSIN SARAH'S COOKIES 

Two cups sugar, small piece butter, one '^up milk, one teaspoon 
cream tartar, one-half soda, spice. A Friend 



54 CAKES, COOKIES, ETC. 

MRS. U'S COOKIES 

One and one-half cups sugar, two-thirds cup butter, two eggs, 
two even teaspoons cream of tartar, one even teaspoon isoda. Put 
the dissolved soda in a teacup and fill it one-fourth full of milk; 
spice to taste. Add flour to roll out, not too hard. 

VINEGAR COOKIES 

One cup molasses, one-half cup butter or beef dripping, one 
egg, one-half teaspoon ginger, one tablespoon vinegar, one-half table- 
spoon soda, salt, flour to roll. Mrs. James Anderson 

MOLASSES COOKIES 

One cup molasses, one-half cup butter, one-half cup sugar, table- 
spoonful cold water, one teaspoonful soda, a little ginger. 

Mrs. J. Newton Cole 

MOLASSES COOKIES 

One cup of sugar, butter size of an egg, one egg, two level tea- 
spoonfuls soda, one level teaspoonful ginger, little cinnamon, one 
cup of molasses boiling hot poured on the other ingredients. 

Mrs. W. Scott 

OLD FASHIONED MOLASSES COOKIES 

Two eggs, one cup sugar, one cup molasses, two tablespoonfuls 
vinegar, dessert spoon soda, ginger to suit. Flour enough to roll; do 
not make too stiff. Mrs. Chas. G. Hussey 

PEANUT COOKIES 

Cream two tablespoonfuls of butter, add one-half cup sugar, one 
tablespoonful milk, one cup of flour, one teaspoonful cream tartar, 
one-half teaspoonful soda, three-fourths cup chopped peanuts, one 
egg well beaten. Drop on buttered tins in small spoonfuls and bake 
in a quick oven. Mrs. Thomas Peters 

PEANUT DROP COOKIES 

Sift together one cup of flour, one-quarter teaspoon of salt and 
one teaspoon baking powder. Cream two tablespoons of butter and 
one-half cup sugar, add one egg and beat well together. Add two 
tablespoons milk, the prepared flour and last of all one cup chopped 
peanuts. Drop from a teaspoon two inches apart and bake in a 
moderate oven. Mrs. Walter Donald 



CAKES, COOKIES, ETC. SS 

COOKIES 

One cup butter, one cup sugar, one tablespoonful milk, two eggs, 
one heaping teaspoonful baking powder, flour to roll out. Cream the 
butter, add the sugar, milk, egg beaten lightly, and the baking powder 
mixed with two cups of flour, then enough more flour to roll out. 
Bake ten minutes. 

Hermits  Add half a cup of istoned and chopped raisins to the 
above receipt. Mrs. G. A. Higgins 

HERMITS 

One cup of sugar, one-half cup butter, one egg, one-fourth tea- 
spoonful soda in one and a half tablespoonfuls of milk, one-half tea- 
spoonful each of cinnamon and clove. Three cups of flour, one-half 
cup stoned raisins. Cut out with cookie cutter. j\Irs. Chas. Clark 

HERMITS WITHOUT EGGS 

One heaping cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one-half cup sour 
milk, one teaspoonful soda, one-fourth teaspoonful clove, one-half 
teaspoonful cinnamon, a little allspice, a little salt, one cup raisins. 
Flour stifif enough to roll out. Mrs. Elsworth Pierce 

GINGER SNAPS 

One cup sugar, one cup molasses, one cup butter, one tablespoon- 
ful vinegar, one teaspoonful soda, ginger, little salt, flour to mould 
quite hard. N. H. F. 



PUDDINGS, SAUCES, Etc. 



" The preef o' the pudding's the preein' o't" 

" What's sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander " 



CHOCOLATE PUDDING 

One egg, one-half cup sugar, one-half cup milk, one teaspoonful 
of butter, one square of melted chocolate, one cup of flour, one tea- 
spoonful baking powder. Steam one hour. Mrs. Paine 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING 

Place one quart milk in steamer; boil. Mix ,one cup sugar, two 
yolks of eggs, three dessertspoons cornstarch in one-half cup milk; 
add one square grated chocolate. When milk boils add chocolate; 
when melted add eggs, sugar, and cornstarch. Pour in dish, put 
whites of eggs on top, and brown in oven. Mrs. W. B. Holt 

CHOCOLATE BREAD PUDDING 

One pint stale bread crumbs, one quart milk, two squares Baker's 
chocolate, six tablespoons sugar, one-fourth teaspoon salt, two eggs, 
little butter. Bake in a slow oven till firm in the center . Should 
be done two hours before serving. 

Sauce  Cream one-third cup butter and one cup powdered sugar. 
Add three tablespoonfuls of milk, one-third teaspoonful lemon, same 
of vanilla. 

DUMPLINGS 

One pint pastry flour, one teaspoon cream tartar, one-half tea- 
spoon soda, one scant cup milk. Maidam Higgins 

PLUM DUFF 

Tak two heaping cups of white flour, mix therein one-half salt- 
spoon salt, one heaping teaspoon baking powder, two tablespoons 
white sugar, mix well, then add one cup of finely chopped suet, one 
heaping cup of cleaned currants, or raisins and currants, stir into 
a soft paste with enough water to make it up nicely, then steam, 
in any desired shape, about two hours; a longer time does not hurt. 
Citron and lemon peel may be added if wished. Mris. G. M. Lindsay 



6o PUDDINGS, SAUCE, ETC. 

GENUINE ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING 

Four cups flour, one pound currants, one pound raisins, one 
pound sugar, one pound suet chopped fine, one-half pound lemon 
peel chopped fine, three nutmegs grated, six eggs beaten, little salt, 
one small carrot grated, milk to moisten. Mix all together. Put 
into mould or floured pudding cloth and boil ten or twelve hours. 

Mrs. H. Gofif 
FRUIT PUDDING 

One cup molasses, one cup chopped raisins, one cup suet 
chopped, one cup sweet milk, three cups flour, one teaspoonful soda, 
one teaspoon salt. Boil three hours. Mrs. Russell 

BANANA PUDDING 

Cut stale cake in thin slices, and line a dish with the slices. Cover 
the cake with bananas, sliced very thin. Over this pour a cupful of 
thin boiled custard. Make another layer of cake and bananas, and 
cover with custard. Set away to cool. 

BANANA PUDDING 

Put one quart of milk in a double boiler. When brought to the 
boiling point add to it four eggs, beaten with one cup of sugar, stir 
constantly until it begins to thicken, and remove at once. If allowed 
to stand a moment the custard will curdle. If you are unfortunate 
enough to have it curdle, pour in about a tablespoon of cold milk, 
and beat with a Dover egg beater. 

When cool pour over thinly sliced bananas, in a deep dish. Orna- 
ment the top with the beaten white of one egg, into which stir 
sufficient sugar to stiffen. Drop this from a spoon at intervals, and 
place on the top of each drop of frosting a square half-inch of 
currant or grape jelly. 

Any kind of fruit or berries can be substituted for the bananas, 
or oranges and bananas may be used together. Mrs. G. M. Lindsay 

INDIAN PUDDING 

One quart sweet milk. In one cup of this put three tablespoon- 
fuls of pearl tapioca. Let soak over night. Then in one cup of the 
milk soak three and one-half tablespoons of meal. Soak one hour. 
Scald the remainder of this milk. Then add first meal, then tapioca, 
one cup molasses, one cup cold water, one-half cup sugar, one egg, 
teaspoonful salt. Cover tightly. Bake three hours. 

Mrs. Elsworth Pierce 



PUDDINGS, SAUCE, ETC. 6l 

FIG PUDDING 

One and one-half cups of cracker crumbs, two cups of milk, one- 
fourth teaspoon of soda, one or two eggs beaten light, cup of butter 
or suet, one cup of sugar, one pound of figs, chopped, a speck of salt, 
seasoning, as vanilla, if wished. Steam two and one-half hours. Keep 
water boiling. Mrs. G. A. Higgins 

ORANGE PUDDING 

Cut up three or four oranges, according to size, and sugar as 
for supper. Make a soft custard with two tablespoons cornstarch, 
one-half cup sugar, yolks of two eggs, and one pint of milk. When 
cold pour over the oranges and frost the top with the beaten whites, 
to which has been added a spoonful of powdered sugar. Brown in 
oven. Mrs. Walter Donald 

ORANGE PUDDING 

Slice four large oranges and sprinkle over them one and one- 
half cups of sugar. Take the yolks of three eggs, three tablespoonfuls 
cornstarch, a little milk, beat all together, and pour it into a quart 
of milk almost boiling hot and boil four minutes. Set away to cool, 
then pour over the oranges. Beat the whites to a froth with a little 
sugar, spread on top, set in the oven until a light brown. Serve cold. 

NORWEGIAN PRUNE PUDDING 

Wash one pound prunes, soak them in one quart water, cook in 
the same until tender. Remove the stones, crack them, and return 
the meats and prunes to the kettle with enough juice and water to 
make a pint. Boil again and add two cups sugar, an inch of stick 
cinnamon, the juice of a lemon. Mix a scant cup of cornstarch with 
cold water to moisten. Stir it into the boiling syrup and cook over 
hot water fifteen minutes. Turn into a mould. Serve cold with 
whipped cream. This is enough for ten or twelve persons. 

Mrs. ;Mason 

BAKED INDIAN MEAL PUDDING 

Boil one quart of milk. Pour it gradually on three tablespoon- 
fuls of granulated Indian meal. Put it back in the double boiler, and 
boil one hour, stirring often. Then add one heaping tablespoonful 
of butter, one teaspoonful of salt, half a cup of molasses, two eggs, 
and one quart of cold milk. Mix well, pour into a well-buttered 
dish, and bake one hour. Eat with cream or butter. 

Mrs. G. A. Higgins 



62 PUDDINGS, SAUCE, ETC. 

HALF HOUR INDIAN PUDDING 

One quart of milk, two-thirds cup of Indian meal, two-thirds 
cup of molasses, three eggs, small piece of butter, a little salt. Scald 
the milk, and pour over other ingredients. Bake half an hour. Stir 
occasionally. Mrs. J. Newton Cole 

GRAHAM MEAL PUDDING 

One and one-half cups Graham meal, three-fourths cup molasses, 
one cup chopped raisins, one cup milk, one egg, one-half teaspoonful 
baking soda, one teaspoonful cream of tartar, a sprinkle of salt, spice 
to taste. Steam three hours. 

CERALINE PUDDING 

Three cups ceraline, three pints of milk (or two and one-half 
pints milk and one-half pint water), three-fourths molasses, one tea- 
spoon salt. Bake three hours. 

SPONGE BATTER PUDDING 

One-fourth cup sugar, one-half cup flour, one pint milk, one- 
fourth cup butter, three eggs. Heat one cup milk, wet flour to a 
smooth paste in one cup milk. Beat eggs separately. Stir flour paste 
into hot milk. Cook four minutes. Remove from fire. Add yolks, 
sugar, and butter, whites last. Bake in a deep dish. Place the dish 
in a pan of hot water. Bake thirty minutes. The water should boil 
at first, not after. Serve at once. This makes a handsome dessert 
to serve at the table. 

Sauce  Four large tablespoonfuls sugar, two tablespoonfuls 
butter, one tablespoonful flour, one-half pint boiling water, white of 
one egg beaten stifif. Stir flour to a smooth paste in a little cold 
water. Cook ten minutes, then pour onto butter and sugar  which 
have been thoroughly creamed  add beaten white. Flavor with 
vanilla. 

QUEEN PUDDING 

One quart milk, one pint bread crumbs, one cup sugar, small 
piece butter, grated rind one lemon, yolks four eggs. Put milk and 
bread in a double boiler on stove. When hot add sugar, butter, rind 
of lemon, and beaten yolks of eggs. Mix and put in pudding dish 
and bake like a custard. When done, have the whites of eggs beaten 
stiff, add some sugar and juice of lemon, spread on top of pudding 
and brown. Mrs. C. W. Richardson 



PUDDINGS, SAUCE, ETC. 63 

PEACH COTTAGE PUDDING 

Stir six sliced peaches into a batter made of one-half cup sugar, 
three tablespoonfuls melted butter, one egg beaten, one cup milk, 
two cups flour, one and one-half teaspoonfuls baking powder. Bake 
in a loaf and iserve with hard sauce. 

RICE PUDDING 

One cup boiled rice, one pint milk, four eggs, rind of one lemon, 
grated, tablespoonful butter, three tablespoonfuls sugar, salt. Re- 
serve three whites for frosting. Bake slowly till the custard is firm 
in the center. When cold add frosting, flavor with lemon. Brown 
quickly. Eat cold. 

SOFT RICE PUDDING 

To one quart of milk add three tablespoonfuls of rice and a little 
salt, and boil one hour, or until soft. Then add the yolk of one 
egg. Take the whites of two eggs and beat to a stiff froth, add three 
tablespoonfuls of sugar, pour the rice over while hot and stir a little. 
Lemon to taste. 

LEMON CREAM PUDDING 

Three or four eggs, three or four tablespoons sugar, juice and 
grated rind of one lemon, two tablespoons hot water. Beat yolks of 
eggs with sugar, add juice and rind of lemon and hot water. Place 
mixture in double boiler and let simmer until it begins to thicken 
like custard; then remove from fire and stir in beaten whites of eggs. 
Eat cold with buttered crackers browned in oven. Mrs. Smart 

FRENCH RICE PUDDING 

One and one-half pints milk, one-half cup rice, one-half cup 
sugar, little salt, little piece melted butter, yolks of two eggs. Boil 
one hour; little lemon juice. Frost and brown. 

SNOW PUDDING 

Soak a package of Plymouth Rock gelatine in one pint of cold 
water thirty minutes; add one and one-half pints hot water to dis- 
solve, one and one-half cups of sugar and two teaspoonfuls of lemon 
or other flavoring extracts. Stir until sugar is dissolved; pour into 
a very shallow dish and set on ice until it slightly jells or thickens; 
beat to a stiff froth the whites of three eggs and a pinch of salt, 
beat in the gelatine until light and frothy and set back on ice until 
ready to serve. 

Using a little wine or brandy in the Snow Pudding makes 
Princess Pudding. Mrs. J. N. C. 



64 PUDDINGS, SAUCE, ETC. 

MOUNTAIN DEW PUDDING 

One pint milk, yolks of two eggs, two tablespoonfuls cocoanut, 
one-half cup cracker crumbs, and a teaspoon vanilla; bake one-half 
hour; make a frosting of the whites and a cup of sugar, anid put 
in the oven to brown. Mrs. A. L. 

STEAMED SUET PUDDING 

One cup chopped raisins, two cups chopped suet, one cup sweet 
milk two-thirds cup molasses, four cups flour, one teaspoonful soda, 
cinnamon and clove. Steam three hours. 

WEDDING PUDDING 

One cup molasses, one cup sour milk, one-half-cup butter, four 
cups flour, one tgg, one teaspoonful saleratus, one teaspoonful clove, 
one teaspoonful nutmeg. Steam three hours. Serve with whipped 
cream. It is very nice. 

PUDDING SAUCE 

One egg beaten, one cup sugar. Beat in three tablespoonfuls 
boiling water. Vanilla. Beat twenty minutes. 

FOAM SAUCE 

One egg, one cup sugar, one cup boiled milk, one teaspoonful 
of vanilla. ' Mrs. Paine 

SAUCE FOR ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING 

One small cup sugar, one egg, piece of butter size of a walnut, 
one tablespoon flour, two tablespoonfuls cold water. Beat up all 
together, and pour into a half pint of boiling water or milk. Flavor 
with wine or brandy. 

LEMON SAUCE 

Two, cups hot water, one cup sugar, three heaping teaspoonfuls 
cornstarch, grated rind and juice of one lemon, one tablespoonful 
butter. Boil the water and sugar five minutes, and add the corn- 
starch, wet in a little cold water. Cook eight or ten minutes, stirring 
often, and add the lemon rind and juice and the butter. Stir until 
the butter is melted, and serve at once. If the water boils away, and 
the sauce becomes too thick, add more hot water till of the right 
consistency. Mrs. C. W. Richardson 



PUDDINES, SAUCE, ETC. 65 

FOAMY SAUCE 

Whites of two eggs, one cup sugar, one cup boiling milk, juice 
of one lemon. Beat the whites of the eggs till foamy, but not dry; 
add the sugar, beat well, add the milk and lemon juice. 

Mrs.C. W. Richardson 

SNOW PUDDING SAUCE 

Beat the yolks of three eggs with a cup of sugar and two tea- 
spoonfuls of cornstarch. Scald one quart of milk and turn it into 
the yolks, heat until it thickens, stirring all the time; add vanilla and 
a pinch of salt and let it cool. Mrs. J. N. C. 

WHITE SAUCE 

Two tablespoons butter, two tablespoons milk, one cup milk, 
one-fourth teaspoon salt, few grains pepper. Free Church Friend 



PIES, PASTRY, Etc. 

" Now good digestion wait on appetite, and health on both." 

Shakespeare 

PLAIN PASTE 

Beat the white of one tgg with a tablespoon of lard, working into 
one quart of flour with the hands until fine as meal. Add one cup 
of ice water; roll out and put one-half pound of butter on the paste 
in little piece;S, either all at once or one-half of it at a time. Dredge 
slightly with flour, fold the edge over. Roll up, pat and roll out. 
This makes four pies. Mrs. C. A. M. 

GOOD PIE PASTE 

For one pie, one heaping cupful of pastry flour, one saltspoon 
baking powder, saltspoon of salt, from one-half to one-third of a 
cupful of butter and lard mixed. Mix the baking powder and salt 
with the flour and rub in the lard. Mix quite stifif with cold water. 
Roll out, put the butter on the paste in little pieces and sprinkle 
with flour. Fold over and roll out, and roll up like a jelly roll. 
Divide into two parts and roll to fit the plate. Mrs. C. A .M. 

CREAM PASTE 

Mix one-half teaspoonful salt and one-half teaspoonful of soda 
with one cup of cream and stir in flour enough to mix to a stifif paste. 
Roll one-half inch thick. Cut. one-third cup butter into small pieces 
and put it on paste. Sprinkle with flour and roll out thin. Roll up, 
cut piece from the end and roll to fit the plate. Mrs. C. A. M. 

APPLE PIE 

Cut sour apples in quarters, remove the cores and skin and cut 
each quarter in two pieces lengthwise. Fill the plate, putting the 
pieces of apple around in regular order and pile them slightly in 
the middle. They will cook as quickly as when sliced although many 
are unwilling to believe it. If the apples are dry add a little water. 
Cover the crust without wetting the edges and bake about half an 
hour. When done boil three heaping tablespoons of sugar and one 
of water for five minutes, add the grated rind of one lemon or one 
tablespoonful of lemon juice. When the pie is done remove to an 
earthen plate, pour the syrup through a cut in the top or raise the 
upper crust and pour it over the fruit. To sweeten before baking, 
sprinkle one-half cup sugar mixed with a little spice or grated lemon 
rind over the apple. Mrs. C. A. M. 



68 PIES, PASTRY, ETC. 

CREAM PIE 

One cup sugar, two eggs, six teaspoonfuls of water, one cup 
of flour, one teaspoonful of yeast powder. When ready for the pan 
add one teaspoonful of vinegar. A Friend 

CREAM PIE 

Three eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, one cup sugar, 
five tablespoonfuls of water, one large cup flour, one teaspoonful 
baking powder, two teaspoonfuls vinegar, last of all. Makes two 
pies. When done cut in half, fill with whipped cream, cover top with 
sugar. Very nice. A Friend 

CREAM PIE 

One and one-half cups sugar, three eggs, one-half cup cold 
water, two cups flour, one and one-half teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder, pinch of salt. Mrs. Paine 

CRANBERRY PIE 

One quart of cranberries chopped fine, one cup of molasses, one 
cup sugar, one tablespoonful cornstarch, one cup and a half of boil- 
ing water turned on the starch; makes three pies. A Friend 

CRANBERRY PIE 

One quart cranberries, one-half cup molasses, two cups sugar, 
one tablespoon cornstarch to a cup and a half of boiling water, 
spice. Chop the cranberries. Mrs. Anderson 

CRANBERRY PIE 

One quart cranberries chopped, two cups sugar, one large table- 
spoonful cornstarch, mixed with a little cold water, one and one- 
half cups boiling water poured on the cornstarch. Bake with two 
crusts. This will make four small pies. A Friend 

LEMON PIE 

Grate and squeeze two lemons, add two cups sugar, the yolks 
of two eggs, one whole egg, two tablespoonfuls cornstarch, scalded 
in one and one-half pints milk. Beat the whites of the two eggs with 
two tablespoonfuls powdered sugar for top of pies. This will make 
two pies. Mrs. Milo H. Gould 



PIES, PASTRY, ETC. 69 

LEMON PIE 

One and one-half cups sugar, one and one-half cups hot water, 
yolks of three eggs, one large lemon or two small ones, whites of 
the eggs for frosting. This makes the filling for two pies. 

Mrs. Stiles 
LEMON PIE 

One cup sugar, two heaping tablespoons flour, mixed well to- 
gether, one whole egg and yolks of two more, pinch of salt, grated 
rind and juice of one lemon, one cup of boiling water. Bake with 
one crust, using the whites beaten stiff with two tablespoons of 
powdered sugar, for frosting. Mrs. Walter Donald 

LEMON PIE 

One cup sugar, one-half cup of milk, juice and rind of one lemon, 
one tablespoonful flour mixed with the sugar, one egg well beaten, 
one teaspoonful vanilla. It is thin like custard but when baked be- 
tween two crusts is just right. Mrs. Thomas Peters 

LEMON CREAM PIE 

Juice and rind of one lemon, grated, one cup of sugar, two table- 
spoonfuls flour, one small piece melted butter, two eggs, one cup 
milk. Stir all together, beat the whites to a stiff froth and stir in 
last. Bake in deep plate one-half hour slowly. Mrs. H. A. Russell 

RAISIN LEMON PIE 

One cup raisins chopped fine, juice of one lemon, one or two 
eggs, one tablespoonful flour, butter size of walnut, one cup sugar, 
little salt, nearly one-half cup either hot or cold water. Chop raisins, 
stir in flour, sugar, butter, beat egg, lemon juice, salt; beat all up 
and turn in the hot water. It will be syrupy when you bake it be- 
tween two crusts. ]\Iiss Sears 
MOCK CHERRY PIE 

One cup cranberries, one-half cup raisins, one cup sugar, one 
tablespoonful flour, one cup boiling water, one teaspoonful vanilla. 
Stir sugar and flour together, pour on boiling water. A Friend 

MOCK CHERRY PIE 

One cup raisins, one cup cranberries, one cup sugar, one cup hot 
water, piece of butter, one tablespoonful flour. Chop raisins an,d 
cranberries. Mrs. E. Pierce 



70 PIES, PASTRY, ETC. 

MOCK CHERRY PIE 

One cup chopped cranberries, one cup chopped stoned raisins, 
one cup sugar, three fourths cup water, one dessertspoonful vanilla, 
one half saltspoonful salt and a small piece butter. Bake between 
two crusts. Mrs. Thomas Peters 

MOCK CHERRY PIE 

One cup chopped raisins, one cup chopped cranberries, three 
quarters cup sugar, two tablespoons flour. Smooth with water as for 
gravy, one cup cold water, one half teaspoonful vanilla. Bake in 
deep plate with upper and under crust. Mrs. Whittemore 

MINCE PIE 

One cup meat, one and one-half cups raisins, one and one-half 
cups currants, one and one-half cups brown sugar, one-third cup 
molasses or one cup of granulated sugar, three cups chopped apples, 
one cup meat liquor, two teaspoons of salt, two teaspoons of cinna- 
mon, one-half teaspoon of mace, one-half teaspoon of powdered clove, 
one lemon, grated rind and juice, one-fourth piece cinnamon, one-half 
cup of brandy, one-fourth cup wine, three teaspoonfuls rosewater. 
Mix in order given. Use enough meat liquor to make quite moist. 
Substitute one cup of cider for wine and brandy if preferred. Cook 
in porcelain kettle until apples and raisins are soft. Do not add 
brandy and wine (or cider) and rose water until mixture is cooked. 
One cup of chopped suet or one cup butter may be added if preferred 
but if the fat on the meat is used or the pies to be eaten cold, suet 
is not needed. Meat from the vein or the lower part of the round 
that has a little fat and no bone is the best for pie meat. 

Mrs. C. A. M. 
ORANGE PIE 

Two cups sugar, two cups flour, five eggs, one teaspoonful cream 
of tartar, one-half teaspoonful so.da, juice and rind of one orange. 
These are for cake. Beat eggs very light. Then add sugar and beat 
until frothy. Now add orange. Mix soda and cream of tartar with 
flour and rub through sieve onto the beaten eggs and sugar. Stir 
well and bake in deep tin plate. There will be enough for six plates. 
When baked, put a thin layer of the iceing between the cakes and 
cover the pie with iceing. There should be three cakes in a pie. 

Mrs. C. A. M. 
RAISIN PIE 

One cup chopped raisins, one pound sugar, one egg. one lemon, 
three tablespoons cold water. Mrs. W. B. Holt 



PIES, PASTRY, ETC. 71 

RHUBARB PIE 

Three cups chopped rhubarb, one cup chopped raisins, two cups 
sugar, two tablespoonfuls flour, little nutmeg. This makes two pies. 

Mrs. H. A. Russell 

SQUASH PIE 

One and one-fourth cups strained squash, one-fourth cup sugar, 
one-half teaspoon salt, one-fourth teaspoon cinnamon, ginger and 
nutmeg, one egg, seven-eighths cup milk. Mrs. Walter Rhodes 

SQUASH PIE WITHOUT EGGS 

Take three pints strained squash, add three cups white sugar, 
half a teaspoonful of ginger, the same of cinnamon and essence lemon. 
Boil a pint of milk and stir into it, as it boils, three large spoonfuls 
cornstarch rubbed smooth in cold milk. Melt in this a piece of butter 
as large as an egg. Stir the cornstarch well, then pour into the 
squash an,d mix thoroughly. This makes three pies. Mrs. Lindsay 

TRANSPARENT PIE 

Yolks four eggs, two thirds cup sugar, one tablespoonful butter, 
one tablespoonful flour, beaten well. Add one and a half cups milk, 
and essence of lemon. Frost with whites of eggs sugar and lemon. 

Mrs. Baldwin 

WASHINGTON PIE 

One cup sugar, one and one half cups pastry flour, two eggs, 
four tablespoons milk, one teaspoon cream of tartar, one-half tea- 
spoon soda. 

BRAMBLES 

One cup of chopped apple, one cup of raisins chopped also, one 
cup of sugar, juice and rind of two lemons, two eggs, speck of salt. 
Beat the eggs well and mix with other ingredients. Have some pie 
pastry ready, roll out and cut the size of a saucer, put in some of the 
filling and double together, and then prick through with a fork and 
fry in hot lard. Very nice for dinner pails. Mrs. Whittemore 

CREAM FILLING 

One pint of milk, one egg, two thirds cup sugar, two tablespoon- 
fuls of flour, salt. Boil until it thickens. Vanilla flavoring. 

Mrs. Paine 



72 PIES, PASTRY, ETC. 

CREAM FOR FILLING 

One egg, one cup of milk, two teaspoonfuls of corn starch, six 
cups of sugar, pinch of salt, flavor to suit your taste. A Friend 

OYSTER PATTIE FILLING 

One pint milk, one-half pint of small oysters boiled in water 
till tender. Then drain ofif water and chop them fine. Season to 
taste with salt, pepper and butter. Take one-half pint milk, boil and 
thicken same as cream toast. When cream is thoroughly cooked, 
add prepared oyster and stir well. A. L. Whittemore 

ORANGE PIE ICEING 

The whites of four eggs, one teacup of powdered sugar, juice and 
rind of two oranges. After beating the whites to a stiff froth, beat 
the sugar and then the rind and juice of oranges. When the pies 
are iced, dry them in the oven. Mrs. C. A. M. 

FRUIT JUMBLES 

To one heaping cup of butter, put two of sugar, three and a half 
of nour, half a cup of milk, three eggs, a cup of currants, and half 
a teaspoonful saleratus. Grate in half a nutmeg. Bake in broad, 
shallow pans and cut the sheets in square pieces while warm. 

OYSTER PATTIE CASINGS 

One-half pound flour, one-half pound butter. Take one-fourth 
of butter and mix into flour. Add enough to stir stiff. Roll out and 
spread on remainder of butter. Fold up and roll out three times. 
Set away in cold place for an hour. Then roll out three times more 
and set away again for an hour and again roll out three times. Take 
a scalloped cookie cutter and cut out like cookies, and take a thimble 
and make punch in middle. Wash casings with milk to help brown. 
Bake in quick oven. When done cut out thimble mark and put in 
filling. A. L. Whittemore 

VERY NICE CREAM CAKES 

Boil together one cup water and half cup butter; add one cupful 
flour all at once, and beat hard; when the mixture balls together and 
cleaves from the pan, remove from the fire; break four eggs in, one at 
a time, beating vigorously one minute. Drop the mixture, while 
still warm, by the spoonful on a buttered pan. Bake thirty minutes 
slow. Janet Blythe Tough 



PIES, PASTRY, ETC. 73 

CREAM CAKES 

Put ne-half cup butter and one cup boiling- water in a saucepan; 
while boiling add one cup of flour and stir until a smooth paste is 
formed. Cool, add three unbeaten eggs one at a time and beat for 
ten minutes or until the mixture is smooth again. Drop by spoon- 
fuls into a hot pan and bake in a hot oven for one-half hour. Fill 
with whipped cream sweetened and flavored to taste. 

CREAM CAKES 

One cup hot water, one-half cup butter, boiled together. Stir in 
slowly one cup flour and cook until smooth. Let cool, then add five 
eggs, well beaten. Mix all together and drop into a pan, which has 
been wet. with one cup cold water. Bake about one-half hour in a 
'good oven. Fill with whipped cream or a made cream. 

CREAM CAKES 

One cup of hot water, one-half cup of butter. Boil together and 
stir in one cup flour; when cold add three eggs, one at a time, and 
beat till perfectly smooth. Bake in oven hot enough for any light 
cake about twenty minutes. Cream.  One cup of milk, one-half cup 
sugar, one egg, three tablespoons of flour. Beat the egg, add sugar 
and flour, and stir into the boiling milk. Flavor when off the stove, 
to suit taste. Cook in dish set in hot water. This makes twelve. 



Mrs. Charles Clark 



CREAM CAKES 



One cup hot water, one-half cup butter boiled together. Stir in 
slowly one cup flour and cook until smooth. Let cool, then add five 
eggs well beaten. Mix all well together and drop into a pan, which 
has been wet with one teaspoonful soda, dissolved in one cup cold 
water. Bake about one-half hour in a good oven. Fill with whipped 
cream or a made cream. 

FILLING FOR CREAM CAKES 

Mix together three-quarters of a cup of sugar, half a cup of flour, 
one egg; pour on this one pint of hot milk; cook in a double boiler; 
flavor with lemon or vanilla. Janet Blythe Tough 

SCOTCH SHORT BREAD 

Three cups flour, one cup sugar, one pound butter, two cups 
ground rice. Mrs. David Leslie 



74 PIES, PASTRY, ETC. 

SCOTCH SHORT BREAD 

Fourteen ozs. pastry flour, two oz. rice flour, one-half lb. butter, 
six ozs. powdered sugar, one large teaspoon baking powder. Wash 
butter well, squeeze dry; mix butter and sugar well together, then 
add flour and baking powder, kneading all well together. Take a 
sheet of white paper, divide dough into pieces size desired and roll 
out on this paper. Never move the cakes, but let them remain where 
they are flattened out. Form round, pinching around edge with 
finger and thumb. Lift paper and all, place in oven not too hot. 
Leave door open ten minutes to allow cakes to rise, then close door 
gently. Bake forty minutes. Let cakes become firm before taking 
off paper. Mrs. G. A. C. 

SCOTCH SCONES 

Mix and sift one pint of flour with two teaspoons of baking 
powder and one teaspoon of salt; chop into this one tablespoon of 
butter and moisten with three-quarters cup of milk to which one 
beaten egg has been added. Place on a floured board, roll out, cut 
into triangular pieces, bake on a soapstone griddle and butter while 
hot. 

RECEIPT FOR ENGLISH MINCE MEAT 

Three lbs, of meat, three quarts of chopped apples, one cupful of 
suet, chopped fine, one lb. of currants, one lb. of seeded raisins, some 
citron (according to your own idea), one pint of brown sugar, one 
pint of molasses, one tablespoon brown cloves, one tablespoon all- 
spice, one tablespoon mace, two tablespoons cinnamon, some salt 
and pepper, one gallon cider. Boil three hours. Lynn Friend 



FANCY DESSERTS 



" Such dainties to them, their health it might hurt ; 
It's like sending them ruffles when wanting a shirt." 

 Goldsmth 



APPLES IN BLOOM 

Select eight red apples. Cook in boiling water, having the water 
half cover the apples. Turn often while cooking. Cook until tender, 
carefully removing the skin so that the blush may remain. To the 
water, add one cup sugar, grated rind of one-half lemon, and the 
juice of an orange. Simmer until reduced to one cup. Cool and 
pour over the apples. Delicious served with whipped cream. 

Mrs. Fred Gofif 
APPLE FRITTERS 

Make a batter with one cup of sweet milk, one teaspoonful sugar, 
tw^o eggs (whites and yolks beaten separately), two cups flour, one 
teaspoonful baking powder mixed with flour. Pare and remove the 
cores from the apples, mix in the batter and fry in hot lard. 
Sauce:  One cup sugar, one teaspoonful of cornstarch, two table- 
spoonfuls butter, one and one-half cups boiling water, flavor with 
lemon. 

APPLE TAPIOCA 

Three large tablespoonfuls of pearl tapioca, one quart of water, 
one spoonful of salt, one heaping spoonful of sugar. Pare and slice 
into this two good-sized sour apples. Bake till tapioca is in a liquid 
state. Pour this into a mould wet in cold water. When cold eat 
w^th cream and sugar. Mrs. Charles Clark 

BOILED CUSTARD 

One quart milk scalded, two eggs, one tablespoonful cornstarch, 
one cup sugar, and one teaspoonful vanilla. Mrs. H. Russell 

CHOCOLATE BLANC-MANGE 

One quart of milk, four tablespoonfuls cornstarch, three squares 
chocolate, a little sugar. Salt. Boil cornstarch in the milk, leaving 
milk enough to dissolve the chocolate. Add the chocolate while boil- 
ing, but do not boil after it is added as it makes it bitter. Flavor 
with vanillla. When cold serve with whipped cream. 



78 FANCY DESSERTS 

CHOCOLATE WHIPS 

One pint milk, one-half square chocolate, one-foufth cup of 
sugar, three eggs, a pinch of salt. Scrape chocolate fine. Dissolve, 
with a teaspoonful of sugar, in a tablespoonful of boiling water. Add 
to the boiling milk. Beat eggs and remaining sugar together and 
stir into the boiling milk. Stir constantly until it begins to thicken. 
Add the salt. Set in a cool place. Whip one-half pint of cream, 
flavor, and heap on the rest. Serve ice cold. 

COFFEE CUSTARD 

Mix thoroughly three eggs with three heaping tablespoons of 
sugar. Add one pint of milk and one cup of strong coffee. Pass 
through a fine strainer. Fill the cups, and put them in a low pan 
with boiling water to one-half their height. Take off the froth that 
may rise to the surface. Cover the pan, and let contents simmer 
gently for twenty minutes. Serve cold. Mrs. Walter Donald 

COFFEE JELLY 

One box of gelatine soaked in cold water twenty minutes, one 
cup of dry coffee, beat one tgg into it, pour three pints of boiling 
water onto it, and steep twenty minutes, then strain onto the gelatine 
and stir occasionally till cold, then add one cup of sugar. Stir it in 
and strain again, pour into mould to jelly. 

Custard for jelly  Take one quart of milk and let it come to a 
boil, then pour in two eggs beaten well with one-half cup sugar. 

Mrs. James Anderson 

COFFEE JELLY 

One pint of sugar, one pint of strong coffee, one and one-half 
pints of boiling water, one-half pint cold water, one box of gelatine. 
Soak gelatine two hours in the cold water. Pour the boiling water 
on it. When dissolved, add the sugar and coffee, strain into moulds, 
set away to harden. Serve with sugar and cream. 

COFFEE JELLY 

Pour one pint of boiling water on a little more than one-fourth 
of a box gelatine. When cool, add the whites of two eggs well 
beaten, one cup strong coffee, one cup sugar. 

For the Custard  One and a half pints milk, one tablespoon 
cornstarch, two tablespoons sugar, yolks of two eggs. 

Mrs. S. Jackson 



FANCY DESSERTS 79 

LEMON BUTTER 

Nice for a tart filling, and will keep in a cold place for weeks. 
One pound of white sugar, one-fourth pound of butter, six eggs, 
juice and grated rind of three lemons. Boil until thick as custard. 

CORNSTARCH SNOW 

One tablespoonful cornstarch, one-half pint water, four table- 
spoonfuls sugar, juice of one lemon, whites of two eggs. Dissolve 
cornstarch in a little cold water, add to remainder of water when 
it boils. Cook ten minutes. Remove from fire and add sugar and 
lemon juice, then the whites beaten stiff. Whip all together until 
it becomes white and thick. Serve with custard sauce. 

ESCALLOPED APPLE 

Two cups bread crumbs, two cups chopped apples, one-half cup 
raisins. Bake in a well buttered pudding dish, in layers, with bits 
of butter and sugar on each layer. Moisten with milk, Mrs. Smart 

ESCALLOPED FRUIT 

Put into a serving dish any kind of fruit with layers of maca- 
roons. Pour over one pint boiled custard. Put a meringue of the 
whites of the eggs on top. Flavor custard with two tablespoons of 
wine if desircid. Mrs. H. Goff 

FLOATING ISLAND 

Take one quart of milk and heat it nearly boiling hot, then put 
the whites of four eggs beaten to a stiff froth on the hot milk for a 
few moments to cook; then with a skimmer remove the froth from 
the milk; then beat the yolks of the eggs with one cup of sugar and 
a pinch of salt, and stir in the milk until boiling, then cool, and 
flavor with vanilla; lastly, lay the white frosting (at first prepared) 
on top of the custard. Mrs. A. Lam^ont 

LEMON CREAM 

Heat one pint of milk in double boiler. Mix one cup sugar, two 
rounding tablespoonfuls of pastry flour, pinch of salt, grated rind 
and piece of one large lemon, yolks of two eggs. Pour into boiling 
milk and stir until it thickens. Beat the whites of two eggs very 
stiff, then pour the hot cream on, stirring fast until well mixed. 
Pour into glass dish and serve cold. Mrs. Paine 



So FANCY DESSERTS 

RUSSIAN CREAM 

One-half box of gelatine, cover with cold water, let it stand 
fifteen minutes, beat yolks of four eggs and one cup of sugar together, 
stir in the gelatine and pour it into a cup of milk when boiled; let 
it cook a little longer than custard, flavor with vanilla, let cool a 
little while, then stir in the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth, 
pour into a mould and set on ice. Mrs. Jas. Anderson 

SPANISH CREAM 

One quart of milk, three eggs, one teacupful sugar, one-third box 
of Cox's gelatine. Put the gelatine in a bowl with half a cup of cold 
water, and when it has stood an hour add it to a pint and a half of 
the milk. Then place the saucepan, in which it is to be cooked 
(it should hold two quarts) into another of boiling water. Beat 
the yolks of the eggs with the sugar and one-fourth of a teaspoonful 
of salt. Beat the whites to a stiff froth. Add the half pint of cold 
milk, reserved from the quart, to the yolks and sugar, and stir all 
into boiling milk. Cook five minutes, stirring all the time; then add 
the whites and remove from the fire. Add a teaspoonful or more of 
vanilla. Pour into moulds, and place on ice to harden. 

SPANISH CREAM 

One pint of milk and a half box gelatine heated until latter is 
dissolved, add yolks of three eggs, and five tablespoons of sugar. 
Remove from stove and cool before stirring in the beaten whites of 
eggs. Flavor, and pour in a mould. Set in a cool place. Serve with 
whipped cream. A. S. Coutts 

TAPIOCA CREAM 

Soak four tablespoons of tapioca in hot water, enough to cover 
it, for half an hour. Put it into a double boiler with one quart of 
milk and one cup of sugar, and boil until transparent, which will take 
about one hour. Remove from the fire to a place where it will keep 
hot. but not boil, and add the beaten yolks of three eggs, and a pinch 
of salt. Beat the whites of the eggs very stiff, and stir in with one 
teaspoon of vanilla. Serve cold, in a deep glass dish. 

Mrs. G .M. Lindsay 

PRUNE WHIP 

Whites of six eggs, beaten very stiff, one cup of confectioner's 
sugar. Cook eleven prunes day before using, cut fine, and mix with 
beaten eggs. Bake eight or ten minutes. Serve with whipped cream, 
sweetened a little and flavored. Mrs. J. Newton Cole. 



FANCY DESSERTS 8l 

CHEESE SOUFFLE 

One level tablespoon butter, two level tablespoons flour, i level 
teaspoon paprika, one cup milk, one cup grated cheese, three eggs, 
white and yolk beaten separately. Melt butter in saucepan, add flour, 
salt and paprika and cook one minute. Add heated milk gradually, 
stirring till smooth, then add cheese and yolks. When mixture is 
cool, fold in the white, beaten stiff, pour into buttered pudding dish 
and bake half an hour in a moderate oven. Serve at once. 

Mrs. H. Goff 

CHEESE SOUFFLE 

Two teaspoons butter, two teaspoons flour, one cup milk, one 
and one-fourth cup cheese, 3 eggs, mustard, salt, red pepper. Put 
butter and flour in double boiler first, then milk; when boiling put 
in cheese and when melted put in beaten yolks and then whip in 
beaten whites. Let cook from 12 to 15 minutes. Mrs. Smart 

WELSH RAREBIT 

Put a piece of butter into the chafing dish, when melted, add 
two cups of grated cheese and stir until smooth, then add one-half 
cup of milk or one-fourth cup cream, three eggs well beaten, a little 
cayenne and mustard and stir until smooth, serve on toast or crackers. 

Mrs. Stephen Jackson 

WELSH RAREBIT 

Toast carefully thin slices of bread, with the crust removed. 
While hot butter them slightly, then dip them for a moment in a 
pan containing enough hot water to half cover them; they should 
be only slightly moistened. Now place each slice on a separate hot 
plate, sprinkle over a little salt, and pour over enough melted cheese 
to cover them. Select rich, new cheese, as it is more easily melted. 
It should not be melted until almost ready to serve, otherwise it will 
harden. N. H. F. 



ICES AND BEVERAGES 



" Ah ! by my faith that bears a frosty sound." 

 Shakespeare 

CAFE PARFAIT 

One pint rich cream beaten stiff, one cup of strong coffee, one 
cup of sugar dissolved in the coffee. Stir the coffee and sugar into 
the cream (after it is whipped), being careful to have the three well 
mixed. Then pack in a mould with a tight cover, putting paper over 
the inside cover to prevent any water getting in. Treat same as in 
making ice-cream. Let stand for three hours in cold place. Pack 
in and salt very closely. This quantity fills a three-pint mould about 
three-quarters full. 

ICE CREAM 

Make a custard of four eggs, two cups sugar, two tablespoonfuls 
flour, and a quart of milk. Take from fire, add a can of condensed 
milk, pint of cream, and milk enough to make a gallon. Flavor with 
vanilla. Freeze. Mrs. A. Lamont 

LEMON SHERBET 

Ine juice of four lemons, four cups sugar, two quarts milk. Mix 
well together and freeze, A Friend 

MILK SHERBET 

One quart milk, one-third cup cream, three-fourths cup lemon 
juice, two and three-fourths cups sugar. Scald the milk, adding the 
rind of one lemon peeled thin. This gives a delicate flavor of lemon. 
Strain. Mix lemon juice and sugar thoroughly. Add to milk (which 
must be cold), then cream. Any signs of curdling will disappear in 
freezing. 

MILK SHERBET 

One and one-half cups sugar, juice of two lemons, one quart of 
milk. Vanilla, pineapple, or banana can be added for fourth ingred- 
ient Freeze as ice-cream. Mrs. J. Newton Cole 

RASPBERRY SHERBET 

The juice of three lemons, three cups sugar, two quarts milk, the 
strained syrup from one pint can of raspberries. Freeze. A Friend 



84 ICES AND BEFERAGES 

BOSTON CREAM 

Three quarts water, two pounds white sugar, two ounces tartaric 
acid, white of one or two eggs, one lemon. Slice the lemon, pour 
the boiling water on it, and the other ingredients, except whites of 
eggs. These you must beat to a froth after the water is cold. Bottle. 
This is at once ready for use. Put a glass or so in a tumbler full of 
water, and a little baking soda, stir and drink. Mrs. John Scott 

ELDERBERRY WINE 

One quart of water to two quarts of juice, three lbs. light brown 
sugar to the gallon. Put into a jug and let it work itself clear. Save 
out a little to fill up the jug as it works over. When clear put in 
bottles but do not press the corks tightly for a while. Dr. Howard 

FRUIT PUNCH 

Fifteen lemons, three large oranges, three and one-half cups of 
sugar, one can shredded pineapple. Let it stand over night, and 
when wanted add one and one-half times as much water as syrup. 

Mrs. J. Newton Cole 
FRUIT PUNCH 

Fifteen lemons, three oranges, three and one-half cups of sugar, 
one-half can of shredded pineapple. Mrs. Walter Rhodes 

MEAD 

Two and one-half pounds of white sugar, three pints of water, 
two ounces of tartaric acid, juice of one lemon. Stir this mixture 
together and boil five minutes. Stir in one-half cup of flour, and 
when cool add one-half ounce of essence of checkerberry. Add the 
whites of three eggs beaten to a froth. 

One tablespoonful of the mixture in a tumbler of water, with a 
little soda. Mrs. Charles Clark 



CONFECTIONERY 



Sweets to the sweet. 



BUTTER SCOTCH 

One cup molasses, one cup sugar, one-half cup butter. Boil until 
it is crisp in cold water. Mrs. D. Leslie 

CHOCOLATE CARAAIELS 

Boil together for twenty minutes one cup of molasses, one of 
sugar, one of chocolate, and half a cup of milk. When nearly done 
add some butter and flavor with vanilla. Stir a few minutes and 
then pour into buttered dishes. When not quite cold mark the candy 
in little squares with back of knife. Mrs. Charles Clark 

CHOCOLATE CREAMS 

One-quarter pound chocolate, one cup sugar, one-half cup water. 
Melt the chocolate and boil the sugar and water five minutes. 

CHOCOLATE CREAMS 

Two cups sugar, one-half cup water. Boil together four minutes 
and beat to a cream. When nearly cold, flavor to taste. Mould into 
balls and dip in melted chocolate. Miss M. W. S. 

FUDGE 

Four cups sugar, one cup milk, scant one-half cup butter, one 
and one-half squares chocolate. Melt butter, pour over sugar and 
milk, boil for two minutes, stirring all the time, add chocolate, grated, 
and boil until it hardens in cold water; add vanilla, then beat until 
it starts to sugar, pour in buttered pan and continue beating until 
hard. B. C. Coutts 

FUDGE^ 

One quart fine granulated sugar, one-half pint of milk, two-thirds 
cup of butter, one-half cake of Baker's cooking chocolate. Boil hard 
for nine minutes, remove from fire, add two teaspoonfuls vanilla, beat 
thoroughly five minutes, pour into pan, cool, mark into squares. 

N. H. Farmer 



88 CONFECTIONERY 

FUDGE 

Two cups sugar, two squares of chocolate, one-half cup cream 
or rich milk, one-fourth cup butter, one teaspoonful vanilla. Boil 
from ten to fifteen minutes. Mrs. J. Newton Cole 

MRS. PENNY'S CARAMELS 

One-half cup molasses, one cup sugar, one-half cup milk, one- 
half spoonful flou, one-quarter pound chocolate, butter one-half size 
of an egg. Boil until hard, turn into a pan and mark in squares. 

PANOCHA 

Three cups light brown sugar, one-half cup milk, piece of butter 
size of a walnut, one cup chopped walnuts. Mix sugar, butter and 
milk together and boil until it will harden in water, add walnuts and 
beat until it starts to sugar. Pour in pans and mark into squares 
when cool. A. S. Coutts 

PEANUT BRITTLE 

One and one-half cups sugar, one cup peanuts. Put sugar in a 
saucepan and place on stove to melt. Stir constantly and when 
melted pour in peanuts, chopped fine. Pour into an ungreased pan. 

Miss M. W. S. 
POPCORN CAKES 

Pop a good-sized pan of corn; after picking out the bad ones, 
roll them. Make a syrup by filling a spider half full of molasses with 
a little butter and vinegar; when done rub into it a pinch of soda 
and pour over corn. After mixing well, press into tins well buttered 
and work into squares. 

CREAM WALNUTS 

White of one egg, an equal quantity of cold water, enough con- 
fectioner's sugar to make stiff enough to mould; flavor with vanilla. 
Mould into balls, placing one-half an english walnut on each side. 

N. H. Farmer 



PICKLES, Etc. 



" Every white will have its black and every gweet its sour." 

 Percy'' s Reliqunes 



CHILLI SAUCE 

Eighteen large ripe tomatoes, three green peppers, two small 
onions, two tablespoonfuls sugar, one tablespoonful salt, two cups 
vinegar. Chop peppers and onions. Boil one hour. 

CHILLI SAUCE 

Eighteen ripe tomatoes, one onion, two green peppers chopped 
fine, one and one-half cups sugar, one and one-half cups vinegar, two 
teaspoonfuls salt, one teaspoonful clove, one teaspoonful cinnamon. 

Mrs. J. Newton Cole 
CHILLI SAUCE 

Nine large ripe tomatoes skinned and chopped fine, two peppers, 
seeds taken out, two onions chopped fine, one tablespoonful salt, two 
cups strong vinegar, one teaspoonful ginger, one teaspoonful cloves, 
one teaspoonful allspice. Stew until quite thick. Mrs. Thos. Peters 

GRANDMA GOULD'S PICCALILLI 

One peck green tomatoes sliced, sprinkle over them one teacup- 
ful of salt and let stand over night. In the morning drain off the 
liquid and rinse in cold water. Chop, and boil in vinegar about 
fifteen minutes. Drain off the vinegar, put them in new vinegar with 
a teaspoonful cinnamon, allspice and clove, three pounds brown 
sugar, peppers to taste, and let come to a boil. 

GRAPE DINNER SAUCE 

Separate the pulp from the skins and boil each separately and 
strain seeds from the pulp. Weigh skins and pulp together, and to 
eight pounds add three pounds of sugar, two-thirds pint vinegar, two 
tablespoonfuls of cinnamon, two of clove. Boil all together. 

N. H. F. 
SWEET PEAR PICKLE 

Eight pounds fruit, two pounds sugar, one quart vinegar. Cook 
the pears in a little water until tender. Then boil sugar, water, and 
vinegar; add fruit after putting in two cloves in each pear. Boil one- 
half hour. A Friend 



92 PICKLES, PRESERVES, ETC. 

MUSTARD PICKLE 

One quart each of small, whole cucumbers, large cucumbers 
sliced, and small button onions, one large cauliflower divided into 
flowerets, anid four green peppers cut fine. Make a brine of four 
quarts of water and one pint of salt, pour it over the mixture of 
vegetables, and let it soak twenty-four hours. Heat just enough to 
scald it, and turn into a colander to drain. Mix one cup of flour, 
six tablespoonfuls of ground mustard, and one tablespoonful of 
tumeric with enough cold vinegar to make a smooth paste, then add 
one cup of sugar, and sufficient vinegar to make two quarts in all. 
Boil this mixture until it thickens and is smooth, stirring all the 
time, then add the vegetables, and cook until well heated through. 

Mrs. A. Lamont 

PICKLED CAULIFLOWER 

Two cauliflowers cut up, one pint of small onions, three medium 
red peppers. Dissolve one-half pint salt in water, to cover the 
vegetables; let stand over night. In the morning drain. Heat two 
quarts vinegar with four tablespoons of mustard until it boils, add 
the vegetables, and boil fifteen minutes, or until a fork can be thrust 
into the cauliflower. Mrs. Geo. D. Lawson 

PICKLED PEACHES 

Select ripe, but not soft, peaches, and pare them. To one-half 
peck allow three pounds of sugar, and one pint of vinegar. Boil the 
sugar and vinegar twenty minutes, put the peaches in the boiling 
liquid and boil until tender. Flavor with stick cinnamon and whole 
cloves, which should be put into small cloth bags. N. H. Farmer 

POTTSFIELD PICKLES 

Three pints green tomatoes, three pints ripe tomatoes, one cab- 
bage, one quart onions, three red peppers, three bunches celery, one- 
half horseradish root grated. Chop fine these ingredients, and add 
half a pint of salt. Let stand over night. Drain in the morning, and 
add three pints of vinegar, one pint of sugar, one-half teaspoonful 
cmnamon, one-half teaspoonful clove, one-half cup mustard seed. 
Boil ten minutes. Mrs. G. M. Lindsay 

GREEN TOMATO PRESERVE 

Six pounds of tomatoes, four pounds of sugar, five lemons. Cook 
six hours. Mrs. Thomas Peters 



PICKLES, PRESERVES, ETC. 93 

SWEET PICKLE 

Slice one peck of green tomatoes, four peppers, and four onions. 
Cover with one cupful of salt, and let stand over night. In the morn- 
ing, pour off all the water, and add about two quarts of vinegar, two 
pounds of brown sugar, two tablespoonfuls each of ground cloves, 
cinnamon and allspice. The pickle is much better if the spice is put 
in bags. Let the whole cook very slowly until the tomato is soft, 
which takes several hours. Mrs. J. N. Cole 

CANDIED ORANGE PEEL 

Soak the peel in salted water twenty-four hours. Drain and put 
on to boil in cold water; change the water once, and boil till tender. 
To the peel of six oranges add one pound sugar and a very little 
water. Let it boil until the peel has absorbed it all. Spread in a 
slightly buttered platter, sprinkle dry sugar over, and stir several 
times as it dries. Miss A. S. Dundas 

CITRON PRESERVE 

Five pounds citron, five pounds sugar, one pound raisins, one 
ounce whole cassia, one ounce whole cloves, one lemon. Boil the 
citron in water until tender. Then put on the sugar, raisins, cassia, 
cloves, and lemon on the stove. When it boils put in the citron. 
Cook very slowly about two hours. A Friend 

CHERRY SAUCE 

Cherries may be stoned or not. To each pound of cherries allow 
one-third of a pound of sugar. Put the sugar in the kettle with half- 
pint of water to three pounds of sugar; when dissolved add cherries 
and boil three minutes. Then put them in jars. 

Mrs. Henry A. Russell 

COLD SLAW 

Chop common cabbage fine, place in dish. Serve with it a dress- 
ing made in the following way: Two eggs, teaspoonful mustard, one 
of salt, pinch of pepper, large tablespoonful butter, and one-half cup 
of sugar. Cook until it thickens. Mrs. J. N. C. 

ORANGE AND APPLE JELLY 

Four pounds bitter oranges, three pounds sweet oranges, two 
pounds apples. Wash oranges and apples well, cut in quarters, and 
put in preserving pan, well covered with filtered water. Boil for one 
and a half hours, then strain through jelly cloth. Measure juice into 
clean preserving kettle. Allow one pound lump sugar to one pint 
juice; boil till it jellies. Mrs. G. A. C. 



94 PICKLES, PRESERVES, ETC. 

ORANGE MARMALADE 

One dozen large naval oranges. Cut in halves and scoup out the 
juice. Boil the peels two or three hours in plenty of water until you 
can run a broom corn through them. Drain, and when cool enough 
to handle, scrape out all the white, leaving only the yellow outside. 
Cut into straws. Weigh the pulp free from membrane, and add an 
equal weight of sugar. Boil pulp, sugar and straws for two hours, 
and then turn into glasses. It makes six one-half pint jelly tumblers. 

Mrs. A. Lamont 
PEAR CHIPS 

Seven pounds hard pears (after paring) cut in small slices, five 
pounds white sugar, six lemons, half of them sliced and half squeezed, 
one ounce of whole ginger boiled in water till soft, then chopped 
fine, or, one ounce of preserved ginger chopped. Cook all day on 
back of the stove. 

PINEAPPLE PRESERVE 

Pare the fruit and chop. Weigh the fruit and put in a pan with 
half as many pounds of sugar as of fruit. Let it stand all night. In 
the morning put it on the fire and boil rapidly for one minute only. 
Then put in jars. Mrs. Henry A. Russell 

RASPBERRY JAM 

For each pound of fruit add one pound of sugar. Mash the fruit 
in the kettle. Boil hard fifteen minutes, then add the sugar and boil 
five minutes. Mrs. Henry A. Russell 

RHUBARB JAM 

Six pounds rhubarb, five pounds brown sugar, three lemons, and 
one pound of figs. Chop the rhubarb quite fine, and add the sugar. 
Let stand until sugar is dissolved, then add the lemons, sliced thin, 
and chopped figs, and cook very slowly until the mixture thickens 
like jam. This does not need to be sealed. Mrs. J. N. C. 

SPICED CURRANTS 

Seven pounds currants, three pounds sugar, one-half quart vine- 
gar, three small teaspoons clove, three small teaspoons cinnamon. 
Simmer two hours together, the fruit, sugar, and vinegar, putting 
the spice in a few minutes before canning. This quantity makes 
three jars. A Friend 

SPICED CURRANTS 

Five pounds of currants, four pounds of sugar, one pint of 
vinegar, two tablespoonfuls of cassia, two of cloves. Boil two hours. 

F. 



DEC 1 1913 



MISCELLANEOUS 



COUGH MEDICINE (NO. i) 

One quart of water, one cup raisins, one ounce of flaxseed, one 
ounce of stick licorice broken down to one pint, after sweetening to 
taste. Then add the juice of one lemon. One teaspoonful every hour. 

COUGH MEDICINE (NO. II) 

One ounce thoroughwort, flaxseed, licorice and slippery elm 
steeped in one and one-half pints of water one or two hours, then 
sweeten with loaf sugar. Keep tight in a bottle. 

EYE WASH 

One teaspoonful borax, one teaspoonful salt, one cup boiling 
water. Mrs. Thomas Peters 

LEMON EXTRACT 

One pint of alcohol, one ounce oil of lemon. Get at your drug- 
gist's. 

RECIPE FOR PUTTING DOWN EGGS 

One pint salt, one pint aslack lime, two gallons cold water. Let 
stand twenty-four hours and stir often. 

SORE THROAT GARGLE 

One teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful of borax, a little potash 
dissolved in one-half or one-third cup of water. Use the whole as 
a gargle, the same quantity three times a day. 



