'^^^^:^ 




to 



Household Science 
Department 
Univ. of Toronto 



THE JOURNAL 

OF 

HOME ECONOMICS 



PUBLISHED BY 

THE AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 



VOL. V, 1913 
COMPLETE IN FIVE NUMBERS 



BALTIMORE, MD. 

1913 



I 

\l.3 






-1-101580 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Home, Institution, School 

EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR 

Mrs. Mary H. Abel Marguerite B. Lake 

EDITORIAL BOARD 

Benj. R. Andrews C. F. Langworthy 

Isabel Ely Lord 

COLLABORATORS 
The Officers and Members of the Council 

Vol. V FEBRUARY, 191;, No. i 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 

The nutiition of the people, ]\Iax Rubner i 

A course in household economics, Benjamin R. x\ndre\vs 26 

.Some data regarding food supply and sale in a men's club, C. F. Langworthy . . 34 

Commercial laundries in New York City, William C. Rogers 44 

Institution laundries: Report of the committee on their organization and 

administration 47 

Wanted, a test for "man power," Ellen H. Richards 57 

Extension work in home economics through agricultural agencies, Anna Barrows 60 

Home Economics Day observance 67 

Editorials 68 

Bibliography of home economics literature 71 

Books and literature 78 

Books received 84 

Xews from the field g ^ 

The fifth annual meeting of the American Home Economics Association, 

Benj. R. Andrews 8g 

Minutes of annual meeting g ^ 

Minutes of the executive committee 102 

Minutes of the meeting of the Council 106 

Cornell University Home Economics Building 107 

The Journal of Home Economics is published five times during the year, February, April 
June, October, December, by the .American Home Economics Association. 

S2.00 A YEAR. FOREIGN S2.25. SINGLE COPIES 50 CENTS. 

HOW TO REMIT. Remittances should be sent by Draft on New York, E.xpress Order, or 
Postal Money Order, payable to the .'\merican Home Economics Association. Currency, unless 
mailed in a registered letter, is at the sender's risk. 

CH.\.\C;E in .\D DRESS. Notice of change in address should be sent Two Weeks before 
the date of issue on which the change is to take effect. The change cannot be made unless the 
subscriber's Old .Address i? clearly indicated in addition to the New Address. 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 
Roland Park Branch, Baltimore, Md. 

Entered as second class matter at the Baltimore Post Office. 




X 
o 



THE 

Journal^/'Home Economics 

Vol. V. FEBRUARY, 1913 No. i 

THE NUTRITION OF THE PEOPLE.^ 
Max Rubner. 

Professor of Physiology and Director of the Physiological Institute 
Berlin, Germany. 

It is a joyful thing for us all, in civilized countries, to see the general 
mortality more and more decreasing. In Europe the decrease com- 
menced about the middle of the past century, from the time when 
well planned measures of public and private hygiene were initiated. 
With us in Germany social legislation has exerted an especially favor- 
able influence on the health of the great masses. The stringent 
factory laws, the shortening of the working hours, the protection of 
women, children, and youthful workers, have not failed to produce 
blessings. 

During recent decades wealth has increased in all civilized countries 
and in this good fortune, as I should say especially for Germany, not 
only the well-to-do but also the people of smaller means have enjoyed 
their due share. The deposits of the savings banks grow from year 
to year, and many who made use of this means of small savings have 
advanced to investments of larger sums. The generally increasing 
wealth is the cause of the reduction of general mortality which at 
times takes place almost by bounds. Korosi has especially shown how 
the mortaUty of infectious diseases, as well as of non-communicable dis- 
eases, decreases in a remarkable manner with the increase of general 
wealth. In the civilized countries hundreds of thousands rise every 

' Delivered before the Fifteenth International Congress on Hygiene and Demog- 
raphy, at Washington, D. C, September 24, 191 2. 



2 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

year into the healthier well-to-do classes and so improve their nutri- 
tion, their living conditions, and the care of their children. These 
facts and these successes fill us with the hope that the development of 
the humanitarian hygienic ideas will continue. 

But it would be entirely wrong to relax our effort, for hiunan develop- 
ment does not stand still, and the advances in industrial life do not 
always bring an increase of health. The hygienist who travels with 
open eyes through the old continent of Europe will frequently see 
deficiencies which general statistics do not reveal. Life has not become 
a paradise yet for all people, and even among nations that can boast 
of a great increase of wealth, there are still hundreds of thousands for 
whom life is hard. A reduction of general mortality is not at all 
proof of an improvement of the somatic qualities of a people, and yet 
this ought to be the final aim of all hygienic effort. 

The study of the conditions of the poor shows us, in spite of the 
great assistance rendered by private and public humanitarian institu- 
tions, that there is room for much improvement. We frequently find 
instances of poor bodily development — especially in the large cities 
of all countries — weakly looking individuals, with a pale color, whose 
misery is written in their faces. But beyond these narrow circles of 
misery, we hear complaints that, in spite of the reduced mortality, 
the bodily strength and endurance of dwellers in large cities, and 
especially of factory workers, are decreasing among adults as well as 
among children. Many are the causes of this reduced bodily efficiency 
of the inhabitants of large cities. We find them also among the better 
classes, where lack of exercise, professional mental exertion, and the 
effects of school life, are rightly mentioned as causes. But among the 
poorer classes the causes are oftenest found in health impaired by 
the struggle for daily bread. The problem of the nutrition of the peo- 
ple is doubtless of the highest significance for the quality of a nation. 

The XIV International Congress of Hygiene and Demography held 
at Berlin in September, 1907, considered two questions concerning the 
nutrition of the people, of which I pubUshed later a detailed exposition 
in book form (Volksernahrungsfragen). But the nutrition of the people 
is so important that I deem it proper to discuss it today from a some- 
what modified viewpoint. Much has been written on nutrition of the 
people, especially in the daily press, but mostly by people who are 
laymen in questions of nutrition. 

The layman is quick in his decision, even on questions which present 
the grestest difficulties to the specialist. Every time the price of a 



1913] TJie Nutrition of tlie People 3 

food product is advanced he sees before him at once "impending 
famine." Calamity cries, such as "starvation wages," embitter the 
agitation. And yet, these clamors and accusations, as the specialist 
sees at once, are based on nothing but misleading assumptions and 
fallacious calculations. If we want to really advance the cause, it can 
only be done by approaching the truth scientifically, and not until then 
can we hope for rational measures against these conditions. Many 
sins have been committed in the study of the nutrition of the people, 
for instance, in starting with the statistical conception that a normal 
working man's ration might be determined, and thence proceeding 
to the assumption that any diet below this must mean undernutrition 
and starvation diet. I have already shown at the XIV International 
Congress in Berlin, that such a procedure is purely arbitrary. For 
there is no normal ration for workingmen, either with regard to the 
amount or the quality of the food, nor is the term "working-man" of 
any uniform significance. 

These things are always related to the natural resources of each 
country. A world traveler will find strong and healthy men among 
widely different peoples subsisting on widely different food supplies. 
Just because the conditions are so complicated only a critical study 
can show us the right way through the physiology of nutrition. 

I beheve we may say that the nutrition of the people has been 
improved in almost all countries, in so far as the danger of famine 
invohdng a whole nation seems to have passed, as is the case with ci\'i- 
lized countries. Exceptionally, famine may yet occur in some places. 
I remind the reader of the not rare occurrence of general lack of food 
in India; of some isolated instances in Russia during recent decades 
which have been described by Blauberg; of occasional famines during 
sieges in modem times. People are troubled in such cases, not only by 
the lack of food, but by a terrible increase of sickness and pestilence. 

But with nations having adequate means of communications, the 
world commerce and exchange of food materials afford ample security 
as to food suppUes. England commenced in 1830 to import cereals 
from foreign countries and depends to-day, when her agricultural prod- 
ucts are unusually small, almost entirely on the import of foreign food 
stuffs; and other nations are also compelled to import more or less from 
foreign countries. With well organized transportation such countries 
will generally be protected against want of food, perhaps in a better and 
safer manner than countries which depend entirely on their own 
products and lack means of international communication. 



4 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

Defective nutrition of the masses, and its social dangers lie in the 
fact that the food does not keep the body in a normal or average con- 
dition. When this bodily change is caused by insufficient means of 
livelihood and a real want of food, we are in the presence of evil social 
conditions. That such conditions exist, there is not the least doubt. 
Insufficient food leads to a decrease of the cells of the body, to a loss in 
muscle power, in consequence of which, at least in many trades, work 
cannot be accompHshed except by extraordinary effort and by over- 
strain, leading to anaemic conditions, to loss of spirit, to discontent, 
to class hatred. Insufficient food may produce wasting in infants, 
and in adolescents a retarded growth which cannot be regained at a 
later period. Want of food reduces mental energy in children and 
renders education more difficult. The food of the under nourished 
is also in many cases poor tasting food or that which is inferior or 
partly spoiled. 

Under-nourishment shows its effects especially in regions where the 
climate is severe and the products of the soil are scanty, rarely in 
regions where the products of the soil are easily procured. 

Bad food, an insufficiently nourished body, worry and care, and 
much work, consume the organism, and bring an early old age, not only 
the external appearance of age but also the organic changes of age. 

An old organism is one that is declining and therefore more suscepti- 
ble to disease. Every year of increase in age puts a man of advanced 
years in another and higher "mortality class." It is, in a narrower 
sense, a chronic want of food which we have to combat. 

Only a century ago, in European countries, the food of the lower 
classes of people was extremely miserable. Great numbers of poor 
people depended entirely on begging their food. We must not think 
ourselves the first to lay healing fingers on this sore. It will be inter- 
esting, perhaps, if I give an account in a few words of the beginnings 
of systematic improvement of the nutrition of the poor and of the 
masses. 

The first man to whom we owe a thorough study of the nutrition of 
the lower classes was an American, Thompson, born near the city of 
Boston. Through various circumstances he entered the British serv- 
ice. He went to London, and from there to Munich, where he entered 
the Bavarian administrative service under the Elector Charles Theo- 
dor, attained a very high position and was elevated to the title of 
Count of Rumford. By this name he is well known in the history of 
physics. Much less known are his social and hygienic writings, though 



1913] The Nutrition of the People 5 

it is a great pleasure to read them. Rumford established in Munich 
the first organization for the improvement of popular nutrition. In 
our days there exist still popular Volks Kiichenrecepten, the Rum- 
fordsuppe, and the development of a kind of Volks Kuche, all attribu- 
table to Rumford's initiative. 

Munich owes him by far the finest park, the "English Garden." 
There a monument to his memory bears the inscription: 

Ihm 
Der das schmalige offentliche 

tJbel 
Den Miissiggang und Bettel tilgte. 
Der Armut "Hiilf" Erwerb und Sitten, 
Der vaterlandschen Jugend 
So manche Bildungsanstalt gab 
Lustwandrer geh 

Und sinne nach Ihm gleich zu sein 
An Geist und Tat 
Und uns 
An Dank. 

His life falls in the time when the real food values of the various food 
stuffs were not yet known, but what he did for the improvement of 
the people's nutrition, is to this day remarkable. His first aim was to 
procure for the lower classes better opportunities to earn money. His 
second was to improve the technique of cooking, its cheapening, and 
the introduction of foreign food stuffs before unknown in Bavaria, 
such as the American maize. He made use of barley and of the potato 
in forming cooking receipts which furnished good and cheap food. 
He also turned against the excessive flesh diet of the English and 
recommended to the better classes the use of rye bread, macaroni, 
noodles, barley, and potatoes. More than a century has passed since 
then and many improvements have taken place here and there, but, in 
general, public interest in this question has been roused only occasion- 
ally, to disappear again quickly. 

Hygiene first developed in the direction of measures for the preser- 
vation of health, the sanitation of towns, and the prevention of infec- 
tious diseases. 

In the field of the physiology of nutrition the laws of nutrition were 
gradually experimentally estabhshed by the Munich school. Then 
followed measures against the adulteration of food stuffs, against alco- 
holism; for improved feeding in the army, in prisons and hospitals; 
the estabUshment of people's kitchens, and, since the nineties of the 



6 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

past century, a thorough study of the nutrition of the infant. Here 
and there thorough researches were made concerning the nutrition of 
certain professional classes, of farm workers, of some groups of indus- 
trial workers. 

In the course of time we have seen many social changes of signifi- 
cance with regard to popular nutrition. One of the most important 
of these factors which dominate the food question is the amount of 
mechanical work. It is clear that a blacksmith or a farmer in the field 
develops a far greater appetite than a clerk or a tailor, and the food 
requirements of the blacksmith will be quite different if he works ten 
or twelve hours, or if, for want of full time employment, he works only 
four or five hours a day. 

With regard to the amount of work done opinions have enormously 
changed in the course of a century. Since the development of the 
industries by machinery' the valuation of the human working power 
has changed. The bodily qualities of the worker have been forced 
by the employer more and more into the background of valuation. 
Industrial factory work requires strong men not so much as persons 
who can perform vath skill the many small tasks which the machines 
have so far not been able to perform. Hence the tendency to employ 
children, half grown persons, and women. With the extension of 
commerce the demand for office workers has increased and in the admin- 
istration of state affairs a whole army of officials is needed. The num- 
ber of those who do little manual work increases. Factory laws have 
more and more tempered the severity and duration of work by shorten- 
ing the working hours. Even in the country, in agriculture, machine 
work has substantially diminished the heavier kinds of work. This 
is, from a hygienic point of view, to be regretted, though this sounds 
rather paradoxical ; for a certain amount of bodily labor is advantage- 
ous to the organism, as it strengthens the muscles, the respiration, the 
lungs, blood making, and heart action. The harmfulness of some of 
these changed conditions has been recognized and people try to balance 
the lack of paid muscle work by work for hygienic reasons, by play and 
sport. Taken all in all the food requirements of the civilized nations 
have decreased because muscular work has declined. 

I am convinced that if we could determine the weight of whole 
nations, we would find that this weight has decreased with the indus- 
trialization of labor, not because the race has changed in itself, but 
because the nutritive conditions have changed for a large number of 
people. 



1913] The Nutrition of the People 7 

The question which interests us in this connection is, not so much 
whether industrial workers possess a sufficient development for their 
work as whether their bodily condition is weaker than is consistent 
with the requirements of health. If we consider the population from 
the point of view of their work and their working capacity we shall 
find that the country people represent the stronger and the city 
dwellers the weaker, portion of the people. 

Industrialization of the nations is accompanied by another phenom- 
enon. In former times the cities were small, they were only inhabited 
by tradesmen, merchants, and state officials. The railroads have 
necessarily caused the erection of steam-power factories near the cities, 
and since then the growth of smaller and larger cities has steadily 
progressed. 

In 1 87 1, 64 per cent of the population of Germany still Hved in the 
country, today scarcely one-half. In 1840, 91 per cent of the popula- 
tion of the United States lived in the country and 9 per cent in the 
cities; but at the present time more than one-fourth dwell in cities. 
In England scarcely one-fourth of the total population lives in rural 
communities. This distribution of the industrial workers is not with- 
out importance for the food question. It is just among them that 
conditions have at times been especially xmfavorable. Only a small 
portion of industrial establishments are in rural districts, which offer 
for this class more favorable living conditions. 

The people who do little muscular work live in cities. It is clear 
that in bodily development they cannot be placed on a level, in respect 
to food requirements, with the people used to harder work. It is a 
great mistake that in many statistical works on nutrition the changed 
valuation of man as a power machine, has not been considered. The 
modern industrialized population uses doubtless less food than a 
true working population of earlier times. 

Life requires unquestionably a certain amount of energy in the food. 
Without it our machine cannot perform work, and for certain trades 
and tasks, we are able to say how much food is necessary. 

It is true a "luxus consumption" may occur; the most frequent 
de\aation of this sort is seen in obesity, for the fat man is not only 
heaxier but he must eat more because he is heavier. If we examine 
the poor city population, overfed, fat people will rarely be found; 
lean persons are more frequent. If a certain degree of leanness is 
reached we speak of undernutrition. Such an underfed individual 
often needs, with the same body length, 30 per cent less food than a 



8 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

normal person. But this condition is unhealthy, for such people 
often lack one-third and more of the normal cell content, the efficient 
substances. This results in harm, as I have already said. In an 
underfed person less food is required to satisfy the sensation of hunger. 
If one has passed a certain time with little food he will get used to it. 
But, though he has no sensation of hunger, he may sometimes be sensi- 
ble of his weakness, his reduced power to work, and the impoverished 
condition of his blood. The "managing expenses" of the underfed, 
if we may say so, are therefore less, and it is even possible that, in 
certain kinds of work, a man wdth such an impoverished body may be 
able to get along. 

I do not want to go into details and explain here that we must, for 
hygienic reasons, combat such conditions of insufficient nutrition, I 
will rather mention the causes which lead to such a condition. It is 
possible that it takes place when the total amount of the calories of 
the ingested food is too small. This is often seen in people of the 
better classes who have become poor, who carefully stick to their 
former way of Uving, but who from want of means, have to reduce the 
quantities of food more and more, though a cheaper kind of food would 
preserve their weight. Much more frequently the cause of an im- 
poverished condition is a lack of proteid. There are in the world 
many more proteid-poor than proteid-rich food stuffs, the former 
of which are on an average more expensive. 

Every race diet has developed on the basis of the products of 
the soil of the country. This was the invariable rule so long as the 
means of transportation between different countries were primitive, 
but it is still a valid rule, as is notable in the case of those nations which 
have long since ceased to produce enough food from their own soil. 
The habits of taste have lasted longer than the food supplied by their 
own soil and their needs are satisfied by importation. Sometimes 
revolutions occur in the field of popular nutrition. Such a revolution 
was caused by the introduction of the potato in many extensive regions. 
The chief amount of the food of a people is everywhere furnished by 
a product of the soil. Wheat and rye, rice, maize, potatoes and bana- 
nas are, according to the various countries, the principal parts of the 
nutrition of the peoj)le. The basic substance is therefore everywhere 
of vegetable origin. But none of these foods is used alone, on account 
of the necessity of change and the needs of the palate. The eaters of 
wheat and rye consume these food stuffs mostly as bread, though they 
can be prepared in other ways. The potato can be prepared in a 



1913] The Nutrition of the People 9 

great many ways. Rice and maize are chiefly used for porridge-like 
dishes; the banana is eaten raw and cooked. 

The additions to the chief food are almost always substances rich 
in proteid, mostly from the animal kingdom, meat or milk, or legumi- 
nous vegetables. Are such additions of a purely culinary nature or 
are they of importance for the laws of nutrition? This question has 
only been answered by the researches of the last few years. 

It can be demonstrated that, in the science of practical nutrition, 
we cannot speak of a world-menu as requiring a definite unit of 
proteid, for the various proteid substances contained in the various 
food stuffs have not the same value, as I was the first to show, and 
which the work of my laboratory has confirmed. One hundred grams 
of milk proteid, 100 grams of leguminous proteid, and 100 grams of 
maize proteid are very different things. 

For a normal man 25 to 30 grams of proteid are, in favorable cases, 
sufficient, if it consists in milk proteid and in a certain amount of 
meat proteid, and if it is completely absorbed. This is an astonish- 
ingly small amount, and it is interesting to learn that the infant at 
the mother's breast consumes a similar amount of proteid, if we make 
a comparative calculation. 

But to apply this proportion to any kind of food as it occurs in practi- 
cal life, is not at once possible, because, as I have said, the different 
proteids have not the same value and because we have also to con- 
sider the differences of absorption, slight disturbances of digestion, 
and losses. A Uttle more than the normal amount is to some extent 
a factor of safety to prevent the occasional losses of proteid. We 
cannot go below the minimum figures mentioned above for adults; 
in this Ues their importance with respect to the considerations which 
follow. 

I will now show in what relation the principal representative mate- 
rials of popular food stuffs stand to each other. I separate the food 
requirements, according to two large groups, persons with consider- 
able muscular work, and persons with light muscular work. 

For a strong workman the following food materials are necessary to 
meet the caloric requirements: 

3080 gm. potatoes with 83 gm. proteid equal to 65 gm. meat or milk proteid 

800 gm. rice with 75 gm. proteid equal to 66 gm. meat or milk proteid 

800 gm. maize with 78 gm. proteid equal to 22 gm. meat or milk proteid 

1500 gm. bread with 98 gm. proteid equal to 38 gm. meat or milk proteid 

3080 gm. bananas with 29 gm. proteid equal to 26 gm. meat or milk proteid 



lo The Journal of Home Economics [February 

For a factory worker who does little muscular work we get the fol- 
lowing figures: 

2400 gm. potatoes^ with 65 gm. proteid equal to 51 gm. milk or meat proteid 

685 gm. rice with 58 gm. proteid equal to 51 gm. milk or meat proteid 

620 gm. maize with 60 gm. proteid equal to 18 gm. milk or meat proteid 

1031 gm. bread with 70 gm. proteid equal to 28 gm. milk or meat proteid 

2400 gm. bananas with 22 gm. proteid equal to 16 gm. milk or meat proteid 

If we now pass over some differences of absorption, it will at once 
be seen that, even with a large consumption, a strong workman cannot 
possibly live on maize and bananas without the addition of nitrogen- 
ous food. What we hear about an exclusive banana diet in Africa is 
impossible. Still more tmfavorable is the aspect of the popular food 
materials with regard to their proteid content for men who need less 
food because their work does not require great muscular exertion. 
Bread, maize, and bananas, alone would be a starvation diet for them. 
Potatoes and rice will here just suflSce, but certainly no more, when the 
body has been impoverished and has suffered a loss of weight and its 
total food requirements have been reduced. Without other nitrogen 
sources we could not, therefore, get along. The usual vegetables 
and fruits cannot be considered, and the only nitrogen sources remain- 
ing are legiuninous foods. But as only six-tenths of their chemical 
contents of proteid can be considered for nutrition it takes consider- 
able quantity to obtain a sufficient amount of proteid. The soy 
bean occupies in this respect an especially favorable position because 
it contains also a large amount of fat and is therefore much used in 
Japan as a popular food. Many valuable vegetable proteids cannot 
be used by man as food because his intestine cannot dissolve the vege- 
table fiber. If we omit the Hindoos an exclusive vegetable diet is of 
very great rarity. A preponderating vegetable diet is always accom- 
panied by small amounts of animal foods, milk or milk products, 
fish, fowl, or the flesh of domestic animals. 

Meat does not take a prominent place in the food of country people 
in the civilized countries of Europe, even in olden times; but milk and 
milk products are much used, which addition is very much to the pur- 

' If we consider the loss of proteid in the solid excretions we would approxi- 
mately get: 

For potatoes value of proteid 44 

For rice value of proteid 44 

For maize value of proteid 9 

For bread value of proteid 13 

For bananas value of proteid 1 1 



1913] The Nutrition of the People 11 

pose, as even moderate amounts of milk raise the proteid considerably. 
Such additions permit important variations of diet, increase the pala- 
tability,and lessen the volume of the daily food, as with the milk always 
a little fat can be used. Nobody can justly claim that such a meat 
poor or meatless diet is good and sufficient. Workers migrating from 
the country to the cities, or industrial workers grown u|) in the city, 
become acquainted with other forms of nourishment which appear to 
them desirable as a sign of a higher social position. 

A nutrition exclusively, or almost exclusively, based on cereals ia 
from a hygienic viewpoint not at all perfect. Though in our days 
ergot poisoning does not occur and solanin poisoning by potatoes 
offers no general interest, yet in regions where maize is used as food 
in large quantities, pellagra is today not a rare disease. Where rice 
is used exclusively we find the disease beri-beri. In the Japanese 
navy beri-beri has been reduced in fourteen years from 23.75 to o.ii 
per cent, by reducing the rice diet and introducing a mixed diet. 

Nutrition in the cities has at all times a tendency toward refinement, 
but in former times, when the classes lived strictly separate, the food 
materials were also very difTerent within the city walls. The food 
of the nobility was difTerent from that of the middle class, and the 
latter from that of the poor people. Among the materials success- 
fully used in the culinary art a high place has always been held by the 
meat of mammals, fowls, and fishes. These meats were the chief 
I)art of the meal, other foods of vegetable origin, as salads and vege- 
tables, sweets and flour foods being added. Bread remained in the 
back ground. 'J'he traditions of this culinary art have remained the 
same down to our days. This diet of the upj)er classes is the only 
one which provides the pleasures of the table, it is rich in i)roteid and 
fat, it is not voluminous, does not overburden the stomach, tends less 
to obesity than any other diet, keeps the body even of a lazy man in 
good condition, and docs not overwork the digestive functions. 'I'he 
less well-to-do reduce, of course, the amount of meat, but they use in 
its [)Iace bread and potatoes. This is called a mixed diet. When the 
barriers between the classes fell, the middle classes gradually rose to 
the more luxurious food of the formerly privileged classes. 

It is a fact that the diet of the well-to-do is not in itself physiologi- 
cally justified; it is not even healthy, for, on account of fal.se notions of 
the strengthening effect of meat, too much meat is used by young and 
old and by children, and this is harmful. But this meat diet is pub- 
licly sanctioned; it is found in all hotels, it has become international 
and has supplanted almost everywhere the characteristic local culinary 



12 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

art. It has also been adopted in countries where European culinary- 
art was unknown. Long ago the medical profession started an opposi- 
tion to the exaggerated meat diet, long before the vegetarian propa- 
ganda was started. It was maintained that flour-foods, vegetables, 
and fruit should be eaten in place of the overlarge quantities of meat. 

The descendants of those well-nourished classes are, on account of 
many influences, especially the school and the indoor life, not always 
the strongest part of the nation, but, since in recent times bodily 
exercises have become general, they are again decidedly in the ascend- 
ency. 

The sanitary conditions of the great mass of industrial workers and 
their children, and of people of very small earnings, are different. 
Here we find a decided deterioration of the body as is amply shown 
by the recruiting for military purposes. In spite of continuous migra- 
tion from the country to the cities, conditions are little changed. The 
social surroundings of a great city are decidedly unfavorable to the 
maintenance of a strong race. Among the many factors which cause 
this decrease of bodily efficiency nutrition is not the least. 

The industrial workers coming from the country to the city cannot 
well get along with their former simple diet, because the cheap food 
materials which are easily obtained, as bread and potatoes, contain 
too little proteid. They undoubtedly need an increase of proteid 
material. Neither can they find in the city the food conditions to 
which they had formerly been used; but they accommodate themselves 
rapidly to new conditions, coming into the new surroundings, as they 
usually do, without a family. Just as, under the doctrine of poHtical 
equality, the lower classes try to attain the luxurious table of the 
well-to-do, so it is not surprising that industrial workers, coming from 
the country to the cities, accommodate themselves to the new dietary 
forms. 

The workingman does not want proteid, leguminous food, milk, 
etc., to improve his vegetable diet; he wants simply meat, not because 
he needs it, but because it is for him a matter of pride to follow as best 
he can the other classes in his diet. The difficulty is that the cost of 
meat is considerably higher than in the country where food can usually 
be obtained without the aid of dealers, and where many food stuffs 
are raised on one's own land. 

By far the cheapest articles, according to present prices, are potatoes, 
peas, and rye bread; the cheapest vegetable is green cabbage; the 
cheapest animal food, milk and cheese; the cheapest meat, the herring; 



1913] The Nutrition of the People 13 

the cheapest fruit dried apples. Sugar is in price about equal to 
wheat bread, but beef is always expensive. Instead of butter the 
poorer people use beef suet, or other animal fat, and vegetable fat. 
As the prices of meat are high, beef must be replaced by the cheaper 
fish; wheat, and rye bread are replaced by potatoes; coffee by sub- 
stitutes. The meat used for sausage making is frequently of an inferior 
grade, which undisguised could not be sold. 

Every increase in prices alarms the workingman lest he may have to 
get along without this or that article which he likes, and he is the last 
man to ask himself whether such self-denial will be harmful to him or 
not. If a man of the better classes is advised by his physician to 
reduce his allowance of meat, and to deny himself here and there, 
he usually follows the advice, and today there are many people who 
have learned the wisdom of self-denial. 

Though the tendency to imitate the diet of the better classes is 
certainly an important factor in the nutrition of the great masses, it 
is not the only cause of the constant increase of meat consmnption in 
the cities, as observed in the last few decades. In this connection, 
a very remarkable fact must be mentioned, which has been over- 
looked heretofore. Forty years ago it might be said that the diet 
was by far too deficient in fat, today it is astonishing what a role fats 
play in many parts of Germany, and also in other countries. Bread 
which was formerly eaten alone — (in South Germany, Austria, France 
and Italy it is still done) — is now only eaten with butter or some 
other fat. The consumption of fat has increased so much that, in 
many parts of northern Germany, twice as much fat is consumed as 
compared with southern Germany. The result is that, with the high 
energy value of fat, the large quantities of vegetables formerly used are 
not now needed, while a corresponding amount of vegetable proteid, 
now omitted, must be replaced in some other way. 

One hundred grams fat correspond in combustion value to 260 
grams flour with 26.5 grams proteid; 950 grams potatoes with 20.0 
grams proteid; and 278 grams rice with 19.2 grams proteid. 

The man with a small income uses 6 to 7 per cent of it to buy fat, 
partly butter, partly oleomargarine. The large consumption of fat 
is frequently connected with a rapid increase of the consumption of 
coffee. The consumption of real coffee is by no means a measure of 
the use of this beverage because immense quantities of substitutes 
are consumed. The consumption of milk is also rising in the cities, 
but the classes that drink much coffee do not form the larger portion 



14 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

of the consumers of milk. In Germany, as in England, the coffee and 
tea drinkers eat much buttered bread at all times of the day. 

Where sugar is cheap its consumption has also considerably increased. 
Sugar, too, has replaced a portion of the nitrogenous vegetables in the 
dietary. In many groups of the population, especially in the lower 
classes, the consumption of alcoholic beverages has not been reduced 
in the same degree as among the educated classes. It is not rare 
that lo to II per cent of the income is spent in this way among the 
poorer classes. I have already said that the consumption of alcohol is, 
according to the science of nutrition, equal to a deterioration of diet, 
because it causes, in proportion to its energy value, a reduction of 
the other food materials, especially of bread, potatoes, etc., so that 
here also a lower proteid level results. 

The lower proteid level attributable to the use of fats, sugar, and 
alcohol is, of course, significant. The consumption of loo grams fat, 
50 grams sugar, 50 grams alcohol, is not at all rare among the modern 
additions to the vegetable diet of our time. With such a diet it is not 
at all possible to carry nutrition on with cereals and potatoes without 
the addition of a proteid food, for the proteid content is enormously 
reduced, and the proteid thus displaced cannot be replaced from a 
vegetable source. 

Let us assume a man to be carrying on his nutrition with pea meal, 
then he needs for 2400 kgcal. per day 690 grams. If he consumes with 
this 100 grams fat = 930 kgcal., 50 grams alcohol = 355 kgcal. and 
50 grams cane sugar = 188 kgcal., these nitrogen free substances 
amoimt to 1473 kgcal. and the man needs therefore 407 grams less of 
peas than before, therefore only 690 to 407 = 283 grams of peas. 
The latter contains 73 grams proteid, 5 grams fat, and 162 grams 
carbohydrates. The nutritive value of the pea proteid is only six- 
tenths of that of the milk and meat proteid. Therefore only 44 grams 
of proteid can actually be utilized !^ 

We learn from this vegetable food, which is extremely rich in pro- 
teid, that this whole development of the nutrition of the poorer classes 
must, from its irrational composition, lead to a great lack of proteid, 
as well as to the necessity to consume animal food. But among the 
city populations it is not milk, and not cheese, but meat, which forms 
the source of animal food. 

Sandwiches play in our times a great role in nutrition not only among 
the poorer classes but also among the well-to-do. This is to a great 

' Sixteen grams are lost daily in the solid excretions. 



19 13] The Nutrilion of the People 15 

extent due to the labor conditions in the great cities. With the Eng- 
lish working hours, sandiAiches are very convenient. The working- 
man who works frequently very far from his home, takes sandwiches 
with him ; they are compact, can be eaten quickly, anywhere, and they 
are nourishing. Every "nickel in the slot" device for selling food 
furnishes this modern meal. Rolls are also most convenient for thou- 
sands of people who, for some reason, cannot take a regular dinner or 
supper. 

As necessar}' as fat is for a strong workingman with a large consump- 
tion of food, because we can only by its addition prevent too great an 
increase of the food volume, it is now extensively consumed by people 
who take daily 2400 to 2600 kgcal. If a family spends an equal 
amount of money for potatoes, flour, rice, leguminous food and vege- 
tables, it is not a physiological necessity, but an unhygienic habit, 
which can be dispensed with. 

In the unfavorable food conditions just mentioned lies the chief 
reason of the increasing demand for meat and of the increasing food 
prices, though the food does not increase in nutritive value. There- 
fore the quantity of food is frequently reduced, or the necessary amount 
of proteid cannot always be made up by the expensive animal foods. 
The demands on the cooking art, and for warm food, are more and 
more lowered. 

We thus see how, for city dwellers, the food changes for various 
reasons, and the prices of meat become, for a large portion of the poor 
population, very important. With the great expense in money for 
this kind of food, there remains scarcely anything else but potatoes 
to satisfy the dietary needs of a chief meal. 

Most conservative as to the food question, is the farmer, though in 
the country, too, many changes are taking place. He has frequent 
contact with the city, but he has still plenty of food material though 
not always quite suitable to the purpose. I have noticed a very unfa- 
vorable influence of urban food requirements on the milk producing 
districts of some regions of Switzerland and Germany, which is so 
characteristic that it deserves consideration. The milk producing 
regions of the Bavarian highlands and of Switzerland, had formerly 
an extremely healthy, strong, and temperate population. Milk was 
largely used as a food, and the excess of production was placed on the 
market. In the course of years the commimities gradually estab- 
lished central dairies in which the fat is withdrawn from the milk 
by means of centrifugal machines to produce cream and butter. 
The impoverished milk is partly returned to the farmers. The milk 



1 6 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

producers are paid in cash for their product, but a poor and insufficient 
food takes now the place of a former healthy one. The money now 
goes to the saloons. The potato conquers a new territory. Instead 
of the butter which was formerly used, cheap fats are now bought; 
in short, the change of diet is exactly such as we find with the poorer 
working population in the cities. The effects are exactly the same. 
Physical deterioration in such districts becomes more and more pro- 
noimced reaching finally a low level. This is a very serious condition, 
which attracts attention and which must be combated by all possible 
means. 

The population, especially of the large cities, suffers in many ways 
from abnormal nutrition, which manifests itself in a reduction of the 
size of the body, and of the bodily development, with all its unfavor- 
able consequences. In all civilized countries the country population 
represents still the healthiest types of man, whose conservation is 
absolutely necessary. I have already shown that this source is shrink- 
ing more and more on account of the migration of the population to the 
cities. So much the more must we consider the protection of rural 
population against the loss of its food supply. 

For the various reasons mentioned the city population lays the 
chief weight on a meat diet, and the poorer classes see, in every increase 
of the price of meat, a great calamity. There are, of course, thousands, 
who have to stick, willing or unwilling, to a preponderating vegetable 
diet, and they see poverty in such a diet, though, in other parts of the 
country, we find people contented with the same diet and the same food 
materials. The valuation of the diet by the layman stands always in 
relation to the money his fellowman spends for food. There are doubt- 
less also families quite well satisfied with the humblest kind of food. 

In considering the underlying causes of insufficient nutrition of the 
people, we do not reach the idea that hunger is always knocking at the 
workingman's door. We see evil social conditions which lead to insuffi- 
cient food conditions rather than an utter inability to procure suffi- 
cient food, and often the cause does not belong to food physiology. 
An increased income may lead to improvement of nutrition, but the 
considerations which arise here do not belong to hygiene. I simply 
mention the cheapening of food stuffs by tariff reduction, the elimina- 
tion of the middleman, the workings of trusts, and importation by 
consumers' associations. 

Of great value would be the establishment of cheap restaurants 
which would furnish the workingman really nutritious food for the 
noon day lunch which he must eat away from home. 



19 13] The Nutrition of the People 17 

It would be a great improvement if the factories were not built in or 
near cities, but in the country; for, not to mention the housing 
conditions, it is there much easier to obtain cheap and healthful food, 
and the workmen could even raise some of their own food supplies. 
In the cities, small expenses for luxury and pleasure mount up very 
fast, while in the country there is usually no chance to spend the 
income foolishly. 

The agricultural worker in the ser\ace of the great land-owners is 
not so favorably situated as the independent farmer, but he is better 
ofif than the workingman of his class in the cities. 

The struggle against alcoholism is also a factor of immense impor- 
tance. MiUions of people could be well nourished if they would cease 
spending enormous sums for alcohol, for the expenditure of 10 to 20 
per cent of the income for alcohol is unhappily not rare. 

In the cities the food question is also complicated with the housing 
question, especially rents, for housing and food are the most important 
items in domestic economy. In many cities of Europe the advantage 
taken of the financially weaker middle classes, and of working people, 
by real estate speculators and building and loan associations, by high 
rents, and by hindrance of city development, has become a public 
calamity. The means of procuring nourishment are thus greatly lim- 
ited. It makes an enormous difference whether people have to spend 
one-tenth or one-fourth of their income for rent. 

In the countries and cities where rents are very high, the working- 
man must Uve in quarters so congested that he cannot speak of a home 
or of family life, and in consequence the workingman pays long and 
frequent visits to the saloon, merely to escape his own uncomfortable 
dwelling. Frequently this home is not occupied by him alone, part 
of the space being rented to strangers. These ruthless speculators, 
who transform dwelling houses gradually into one-room dwellings are 
commonly called "Wohnungszertriimmerer" (House destroyers); but 
it would be truer to call them "Familienzertriimmerer" (Family de- 
stroyers). They are responsible for a great deal of hygienic misery 
in great cities, though no attempt is made to stop their piratical 
business. Thousands of families are not able to procure dweUing 
space with a kitchen, and must eat outside the house, thus incurring 
greater expense. For hundreds of thousands of famihes, therefore, 
domestic hygiene necessitates a solution of the food problem. Often 
it happens that both husband and wife work in the factory and thus 
only supper can be taken at home. In many cases want of knowl- 
edge on the part of the wife is the cause of poor nutrition. This 



1 8 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

is true not only in the poorer classes, but is generally true. Instruc- 
tion in domestic management must inevitably become a required 
study for young girls. The wife must know how to manage the 
income. She must know the food materials and their nutritive 
value, and how to produce good and nourishing food. For this the 
foundation must be laid in school. Nobody needs such instruction 
more than the wife of the working man, especially those girls who, early 
in life, undertake factory work, and early become wives and mothers, 
without the least knowledge or experience in domestic management or 
in the care of children. It is unbelievable how foolishly small means 
are often spent. In thousands of families there would be adequate 
nutrition if the wife knew how to manage things. Housekeeping 
schools must be the means of solving problems of nutrition. 

The husband, too, should have a knowledge of diet, that he may 
hold the proper views on the question. Such an education — it must 
again and again be said — is only possible when the elementary school 
becomes a vehicle of hygienic knowledge. Only a few civilized coun- 
tries have so far introduced hygienic instruction into popular educa- 
tion. In most cases hygienic teaching is furnished only in portions 
of text-books on other subjects. The age of school attendance is the 
proper time to estabUsh sound hygienic views. When once imbued 
with false opinions it is very difficult to free the minds of children 
from wrong \dews, and on this account it is most important to begin 
wdth this instruction in the elementary schools. 

The food question must also be considered with regard to the coming 
generation and to the growth of the nation, as well as with regard to 
the well-being of the children. Complaints are frequently heard of 
late years about the increasing sterility of women. Doubtless the 
reasons for this are very different among the different nations and it 
would be an idle task to search for the causes of decrease of births. 
I will only mention what may be said with regard to nutrition. It is 
certain that the fertility of women is greater in the country and that it 
is especially the great cities which show a decrease of births. Experi- 
ence shows that fertility decreases as the social standing becomes 
higher. Wherever the lower classes gradually rise into higher social 
levels, the number of children decreases, because wealth and culture 
lead gradually to a protection of women against too many births, and 
because a good education for the children does not admit of a large 
number, and because the age at which the husband marries is in itself 
a restraining factor. 



1913] The Nutrition oj the People 19 

In the country children are helpers at work, and a wife who bears 
few children is not desirable. The cost of supporting them is of Ut- 
ile importance considering the simphcity of life in the covmtry. In 
the lower classes of the population of the great cities we find the 
greatest poverty usually among the families with many children. 
The difficulty begins with renting a dwelling. Many house owners 
refuse to take families with many children just as they do not allow 
the keeping of cats and dogs. The care of children requires the undi- 
vided attention of the mother. The children themselves grow up 
under unfavorable conditions. Large buildings, in themselves unsan- 
itary, compel famihes with many children to Uve in one or two rooms. 
It is impossible for each member of the family to have his own bed or 
sometimes even a proper sleeping place. In summer the only resort 
is a court yard with Uttle light and air, or the street made dangerous 
by passing vehicles. In the city, children are unproductive, for they 
cannot work, as is possible in the country. The chance to work is 
denied to city children. The conditions of life for children have not 
at all improved in recent years in our great cities. The difficulty of 
pro\iding them with food increases more and more, and yet there are 
people who are astonished that under such conditions the number of 
children decreases. Is it not most remarkable that, imder present 
conditions, so many children are born and raised in the great cities? 

Lea\ing the discouraging questions of housing and food, and of the 
disintegration of family life, our attention is at once attracted to the 
care and nutrition of infants. In recent years the nutrition of infancy 
has been a subject of deep concern both to physicians and laymen, 
from the merely quantitative view point of saving the race, es- 
pecially in those countries where increase of population is slight and 
the mortaUty of the children infficts serious loss in the numerical 
strength of the nation. Although great progress had been made in the 
prevention of adult mortaUty, the mortality of the children seemed 
to continue almost unabated. Without scientific study of this ques- 
tion a solution was impossible. Not until we began to search for the 
causes did we reach solid ground. 

In the field of infantile nutrition the fault Ues with mothers who are 
ignorant concerning the care of children, and, in the second place, in 
poverty. But the former cause is the more important. 

A great movement is now on foot among poor and rich to spread a 
knowledge of the care of children, and we may expect its ultimate 
success. Many questions are to be solved; the promotion of breast 



20 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

feeding; the search for a substitute for milk where breast feeding is 
impossible; improvement of cow's milk for children; the cheapening 
and even free dispensing of milk for children's use. The care of 
children has of late years attracted great attention in Germany and 
other countries. But until housing conditions in the great cities are 
greatly improved, our efforts will be rewarded by only very partial 
success. 

Another great and new field of the food question awaits our atten- 
tion; the question of removing the bad effects of insufficient nutrition 
of school children by free feeding at the schools. It is not in itself 
a new field, for so long as insufficient nutrition is found among the 
people, the children are affected by it. Insufficient nutrition of school 
children is only one symptom of the general condition of the people, 
a symptom which facilitates the diagnosis of bad general conditions, 
revealing them very clearly since compulsory education has brought 
all the children under general supervision. Whoever does not believe 
in the defects and shortcomings of our food conditions, whoever con- 
siders them exaggerated, may find in the conditions of the nutrition of 
the school children evidences of the actual state of affairs in the popula- 
tion at large. 

The question of furnishing free meals to school children has been a 
subject of much study. Complaints about insufficient nutrition long 
ago attracted the interest of charitable people, and they furnished re- 
lief to the best of their ability. But the conditions became very much 
worse wdth lapse of time and the consequences more marked. Here, 
too, we find the same end-causes whose evil influence is manifest in the 
nutrition of the masses. The problem has become chronic and con- 
cerns the state in its most vital interests, in the strength and vitality 
of the coming generation. It has been found that, summer and winter, 
a small proportion (0.6 to i per cent)of children go to school without 
breakfast; many more children (3 to 5 per cent), summer and winter, 
in spite of charitable assistance, receive only a small cold lunch instead 
of a warm meal at noon. Some of these children receive, at least in 
the evening, a warm meal, but there are tens of thousands of children, 
who have a warm meal neither at noon nor in the evening. Thousands 
go to bed without any supper. In the life of the school children the 
want of food plays therefore an important role. 

Bad nourishment leaves its mark on the body of the child, though 
childhood has its own resistance against harmful influences, in so far 
at least as grief and care cannot make such deep impressions as in 



1913] The Nutrition of the People 21 

later years, and childish \itality,with its care-free mind, easily survives 
many troubles. After bodily injuries of limited duration youth has 
the faculty to recuperate when times of better nutrition return. How 
convalescent children thrive in a few weeks when they are properly 
taken care of! But all these advantages of the young body have their 
limits, and notwithstanding these advantages, we cannot be deceived 
as to permanent injuries from insufficient nutrition such as are observed 
in children of school age. 

Pale faces, anaemic skin, stunted growth, the impoverished body, 
show us what serious injuries are inflicted upon the young organism, 
how an unkind fate threatens to nip the strength of youth in its bud. 

Since school physicians of late years have been examining children 
more closely with regard to the condition of their health, there seems no 
end to the trouble. Especially in the public schools the percentage of 
children with poor constitutions is very large, five and even ten times 
greater than in the schools which are mostly frequented by children 
of the more comfortable classes. This is an enormous difference, 
especially when we consider that in the better schools, too, many well 
founded complaints are heard about poor health of the students, 
caused by over work. 

It is then a fact that many children are insufficiently nourished. 
How can the pleasure of study be experienced by imderfed children? 
How can hungry children be able, though ever so willing, to follow the 
instruction? The brain, like any other organ, refuses to work when 
food is withheld. Memory and thought are dulled, fatigue increases. 
How can a poorly nourished child accomplish a task intended for 
a normal child! How easily the teacher misjudges inertia of the brain 
caused by a bodily condition, though the child does perhaps as much as 
he can! 

The impoverished, anaemic child suffers much more from the 
changes of the weather than a healthy child. He finds no pleasure in 
play or gymnastics; his muscles are too weak; bodily exercises are for 
him not a means to develop and strengthen the body, they merely 
consume the scanty nutrient material of his blood. And so the im- 
poverished child, having a hard struggle for existence before him, 
leaves the school with an inferior preparation as compared with other 
children. He brings less knowledge with him into life, is mentally 
weaker, he feels his unfavorable social position and carries the seed of 
discontent and bitterness in him. No loving tie attaches him to the 
family, no pleasant thought lives in his memory. Morbidity and mor- 



22 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

tality are doubtless much larger among these children, and every wast- 
ing disease more dangerous to them. Many chronic diseases are 
acquired in this period of life. 

From this source of an unhygienic youth, a great army of weakHngs 
is thrown upon the state, who as workers do not count, and who have to 
be discarded at the military recruiting office. It is of vital interest to 
the state, therefore, to prevent these forms of degeneration, the lowering 
of physical qualities which are especially observed among the young 
people in great cities and in industrial districts. It is no more than 
self-preservation for the state to lend its aid in combating these con- 
ditions. 

It is not always insufficient nutrition alone which leads to poor 
bodily development among school children. In many cases it is an 
irrational way of feeding the children. Instead of being fed with a 
good cheap breakfast, they are given useless beverages such as coffee 
and its substitutes. Frequently the needs of the body of the child 
are not considered; milk as a food is early abandoned, and the child 
is put on a diet suitable for adults. Many children who have weak 
stomachs do not thrive on a diet made up exclusively of cold foods; 
they do not eat enough, and so lose strength. For many of the condi- 
tions mentioned, poverty cannot be held responsible; they are charge- 
able to carelessness and ignorance on the part of the mother and of 
the family. 

In other cases social factors play a chief role; the difficulties are 
not directly due to insufficient nutrition. The effects of poor nutri- 
tion are rendered more severe because the food requirements are 
unnecessarily increased. Thus the housing question, for instance, has 
its importance in this connection. Very often poorer families have to 
get along with unheated rooms. Continued cold increases the food 
requirements of the children. The same may be said with regard to 
insufficient clothing. In many cases, boys and girls have to do hard 
work at home and do not get a corresponding increase of food. It has 
also been observed that children who spend many hours on the street 
suffer a loss of bodily strength from want of proper care. From what 
has been said it is clear that not all forms of deterioration of the bodily 
constitution are due to insufficient nutrition in the narrow sense. 

As a practical means to prevent the evil effects of poor nutrition, 
we began years ago to feed the children at school. This was done in 
various ways in different parts of Germany and in other countries. 
In some places a breakfast is furnished, in others a second breakfast. 



19 1 3] ^^ Nutrition of the People 23 

In other cases there is a demand for a warm meal at noon, and some- 
times also for a lunch in the middle of the afternoon. There is no 
doubt that the desired purpose, the improvement of nutrition, is accom- 
plished by these means, that thousands of children are thus saved from 
a joyless youth and grow up healthy members of society. 

By feeding the children at school, however, our task is not completed. 
Besides feeding children in the schools it is absolutely necessary to 
super\ase and care for the children in "day" nurseries (Kinderorte). 
These institutions are a great blessing. Here much can be done for 
the hygienic and ethical good of children who do not see their parents 
until late in the evening. In these day nurseries, the children prepare 
their lessons, learn various forms of handwork, and receive bodily and 
mental care. 

A great disadvantage of feeding the children at public expense is 
the abuse of such a benefit where the system is handled in a lavish 
way. We know from experience that poverty is frequently not the 
reason why children are sent to school without breakfasts. Careless- 
ness of the parents, a disorderly household, and late rising, are often to 
blame for these conditions. As to the want of a meal at noon, the 
cause is frequently found in the fact that the mother, or both parents 
work outside the home. When husband and wife go to their factory 
work in the morning, the children, of course, cannot have a warm meal 
at noon, though under favorable circumstances they are given a couple 
of sandwiches. In such cases, too, it is not always poverty which 
causes poor nutrition of the children. From all these cases we must, of 
course, set apart those in which we find real indigence and poverty 
which is not the fault of the parents. It is very difficult to decide, in 
some cases whether or not the parents are at fault. 

Quite correct is the idea expressed in the state regulations of Eng- 
land and Wales concerning the feeding of school children, namely, that 
the children are to be fed where the necessity is apparent, but that the 
expenses are to be borne by the parents if it is found that they are 
able to bear them. This is a way by which a reform may be brought 
about, desirable from the standpoint of both hygiene and physiology. 
We must have a healthy race, and we must apply remedies wherever 
evil conditions are found, no matter how such conditions may have 
arisen. The ways and means of feeding children at school are after 
all subordinate to the actual need of food. 

If it has been found that in the case of a child insufl5ciently nour- 
ished it is the task of the authorities to furnish the food which is want- 



24 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

ing, how should we feed the children? Sometimes the first and second 
breakfasts must be furnished, sometimes dinner or supper. But 
we must always remember especially where the noon meal is wanting, 
that two tasks are to be accompUshed: 

(i) The impoverished child must be raised to the normal weight 
which corresponds to its size, i.e., the body must be put in a healthy 
condition. 

(2) Sufficient food must be furnished to keep the child at his normal 
weight. 

From what has been said it is clear that the food must be plentiful, 
and must not be based on the weight of an impoverished child, for 
this weight must improve. 

The food requirements at the school age have been sufficiently 
well established. We may assume 24 kg. as the average weight of 
boys and girls between six and eleven years. For children of this 
size 1482 (in round nmnbers 1500) calories are generally sufficient. 
Impoverished children who weigh less may be able to reach the normal 
weight if they receive the nourishment mentioned above. But no 
harm is done if we furnish them a little more food, enabHng them to 
reach the normal weight more quickly. 

Of importance is also the combination of food materials. For the 
age mentioned above I consider the following amounts sufficient, 
assuming that a large part of the proteid is of animal origin and that 
milk forms a part of the diet: 

Proteid 64 

Fat 50 

Carbohydrates 187 

On this basis we can supply a breakfast or a noon meal, while the 
supper is left to the family. From some practical cases I estimate the 
supper of a poorly nourished child in round numbers at 358 calories 
with 15 grams proteid, 12 grams fat, and 45 grams carbohydrates. 
The portion which remains after deducting this supper, and which 
must eventually be covered by the feeding at school, I divide in the 
following manner: 

{A) For the first and second breakfast together: 13 grams proteid, 
12 grams fat, 37 grams carbohydrates =317 calories. 

{B) For the noon and evening meal together: 36 grams proteid, 
26 grams fat, 104 grams carbohydrates = 816 calories. The marked 
accentuation of the noon meal serves as a safety factor with regard to 



1913] The Nutrition of the People 25 

the evening meal, which will often be very scanty. If we consider 
what sums are spent for other hygienic purposes, water supply, sew- 
erage, etc., the sums spent for feeding school children are exceedingly 
small. 

It would doubtless be desirable to study the food conditions in 
the various countries, of young people who have left school, for it is 
certain that we would find many deficiencies at this period of fife, 
which are the more important as the time of puberty, and the years 
immediately following, are of \atal significance in the development of 
a healthy body. 

The nutrition of the great mass of the people is a question of the 
highest importance deserving far more attention than it has hitherto 
received. All the great countries ought to have a central authority, 
a food commission, which should concern itself exclusively with the 
far-reaching questions of the well-being of the people. The material, 
as it Ues before us today, is very incomplete, but suffices to indicate 
the main lines of useful work. The nutrition of the masses has so far 
been mostly studied with regard to political economy and according 
to methods and \dew points which do not always \\ithstand the tests 
of the physiology of nutrition. Only by means of the physiology of 
nutrition is it possible to carry on exact research. 

The nutrition of the masses is to us a problem which may be ap- 
proached and improved from many different sides. It is necessary that 
not only the hygienists, in the narrower sense, take up the struggle for 
betterment, but that also the great army of men, who are truly 
humane in their hearts, shall take their places beside us. The battle 
which we have to carry on is not only against unavoidable and natural 
difficulties; we must not forget that human society includes many 
elements, unwilling to make the least concession to a humanitarian 
movement, persons whose prosperity is selfishly held superior to the 
welfare of their neighbors, and who will oppose such a movement with 
all the means at their command. Let us hope that our opponents 
will, at the last, rejoice with us in a triumph of the Humane Idea. 



A COURSE IN HOUSEHOLD ECONOMICS.^ 
Benjamin R. Andrews, Ph.D. 

Teachers College, Columbia University. 

Two courses in household economics offered to college students, 
one for undergraduates and one for graduates, are the basis of the 
following paper. These courses, which are given in a school with 
highly differentiated departments, each concerned with special aspects 
of household science, have the purpose of presenting certain problems 
of common concern to students in all these departments. They are 
based on the idea that with our tendency to speciaUze instruction 
upon this or that phase of the home, there is urgent need for one or 
more centralizing courses upon the home itself — a kind of regulative 
instruction which shall treat of the household as a whole, offering 
standards and suggesting values, both as to the inner organization of 
the household and as to its external relations. It is this purpose of 
giving their compass points to students of the household, whether 
they be intending teachers, home managers, or commercial workers, 
that the courses in household economics try to serve. 

While called "Household Economics," the instruction is not an 
attempt simply to find illustration for the laws and principles of gen- 
eral economic science in the field of the household; it rather examines 
the general foundations of household economy, both as regards its 
own structure, and its relations to other social institutions, and espe- 
cially as regards the economic basis of income and expenditure upon 
which the household exists. 

The first course in household economics, an elective course consist- 
ing of 30 one-hour periods, opens with a brief study of fundamental 
ideas in general economics — the economic world and man's place in 
it as one seeking satisfactions by the complementary processes of 
production and consumption; the characteristics of the economic 
man as contrasted with the social debtor; the general principles of eco- 
nomic consumption, since this is of peculiar interest to woman, and 

• Presented at the annual meeting of the American Home Economics Associa- 
tion, Boston, December 31, 1912. 

26 



1913] ^ Course in Household Economics 27 

the idea of standards of living and the home's intimate concern 
with such standards, since they determine home conditions; finally, 
this introductory glimpse into the economic world (to which four or 
five sessions only are devoted), is summarized by a study of Dr. 
De\'ine's classic essay, "The Economic Function of Woman," with 
its emphasis upon the significance of the home and the home woman's 
part in the wider social economy. 

One may enquire whether there should not be substituted for this 
brief introduction, the typical freshman college course in general 
economics, three hours per week for a year. There is no question 
but that such a prerequisite course would be desirable and ultimately 
it may be required, but with the time available at present it would 
mean that few students in our school could take this general course 
on the household. It may be said, too, in justification, that a general 
study of the household may be undertaken which, without using in- 
volved economic terminology, may be true to the general economic 
point-of-view; namely, an enquiry as to the general methods whereby 
man carries on social activities, whether a factory, a bank, or a home, 
undertaken and consciously directed to satisfy human needs. 

The course itself falls into two main parts, a study of the purposes 
or functions of the household, and a study of the means whereby these 
purposes find expression through family income and its expenditure. 
Purpose, income, and expenditure form, therefore, successive di\a- 
sions of study. 

The first division raises the question — What is a home or household, 
both in its internal organization and its outer relations? It is seen 
to be a social institution employing certain material agencies, the 
house, with its varied furnishings and equipment, its provision of food 
and clothing, and including certain human members, the parents, 
children, possibly other relatives and dependents, the occasional 
guest, and employed workers; the household is in relations of inter- 
dependence wuth other social institutions, the state itself, industry, 
the church, the school, and the municipality; and the idea of what a 
household is and what ends it should serve, varies from age to age as 
new functions develop, or old responsibilities pass from one institu- 
tion to another. This shifting process is of vital concern to society; 
and the Home Economist must needs find his highest opportunity for 
service as guardian of the household's proper social obligations, or 
rather as an interpreter of these to the upgrowing generation. A 
backward glance at the history of the household is taken, especially 



28 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

at the changes wrought by the industrial revolution in removing indus- 
try from home to factory and the probable outcome of the present 
changes in the household itself. The various types of single-family 
households are distinguished, each fitted to its particular purpose, the 
rural, the suburban, the city home, and institutional types of complete 
or partial households, such as the restaurant, the lunch room, the 
working girl's home, the dormitory, the hospital which have differen- 
tiated from the original single-family household, or from some one 
of its activities. The activities of the usual household are examined 
and classified and proper emphasis placed upon those concerned 
with the personal relations of the household and its functions as a 
welfare institution, rather than those which concern mere material 
services as of food and clothing and the aspects of the household as 
a business undertaking. The fundamental and essential character of 
personal relationship, in the constitution of the home, is made plain. 
The relation of the household to various other social institutions is 
in turn discussed. First, as to industry: the effect of the household 
upon industry in furnishing the motive to work, in maintaining effi- 
ciency of workers, and in raising industrial standards; the effect of 
industry upon the household through furnishing more varied consump- 
tion goods, through establishing new standards for the work done 
within the home, and especially through the transfer of work from 
the household to outside industry, and the aids and hindrances to this 
transfer; the irreducible minimum of work which must be done at 
home; the outcome — industrialization of housework, humanization of 
industry, and personalization of the home. Next, the household 
and the state — laws affecting women, children, property and inher- 
itance, suffrage, socialism. The household and the municipality — 
the latter's services for the home, and possible extensions of public 
utilities, regulations affecting the household, and the home woman and 
municipal housekeeping. Other social institutions are considered, as 
church, school, and fraternal organizations, in their division of func- 
tion with the home, and the home emerges again as furnishing for the 
personal life its organizing and distributing center. Summarizing, one 
may say that this first division of study aims at giving a standard idea 
of what a home is, what functions it performs, how it is interrelated 
with various other social institutions which aid it; how various types 
of households, each ideal to its situation and function, may exist 
because of varying adjustments made with other social institutions; 
and finally how seemingly destructive changes may take place through 



1913] A Course in Household Economics 29 

which the home may still pass unharmed, since its essential character- 
istics are those which concern the personal relations of its members. 

The second division of the course concerns the economic basis of 
these household purposes, which may be expressed in term of household 
income and expenditure. 

Income in the household is seen to depend not only upon money 
income, as from wages or salary, or possibly from investments, but 
quite as well, and always and essentially so, upon the value of the 
unpaid productive work of the houseA\afe and other members of the 
household; and always, too, upon use income or the usufruct of house 
and furnishings, equipment, and all permanent consumers goods found 
there. The income value of productive housework, an obvious idea 
when one considers it, is an important conception since it dignifies 
the toil of the housewife in the eyes of her family and what is often 
more important, in her own eyes. A passing glance is given at indus- 
trial conditions which affect wages — lack of vocational education, 
irregularity in employment, industrial accidents and disease, and other 
controllable conditions for which the home as a center for educating 
opinion is partly responsible, as well as malnutrition and insanitary 
living for which the home is directly responsible. The more intimate 
questions of sweated home-work, of child-labor and other supplemen- 
tary wage-earning, and of desirable home-work, or possible outside work, 
for the leisure home woman, are each considered. Women, wage-earn- 
ing vocations, and home are seen to form a complicated triangular prob- 
lem, requiring, in this transition stage, a thoughtful, individual adjust- 
ment which gives due preeminence to social welfare. The needed 
development of desirable supplementary occupations for the home 
woman in country and city is pointed out. 

Expenditure, or use made of the household income, is the next gen- 
eral topic in the course, occupying somewhat over one half the time. 
It is treated in three topics: Principles which should guide in the use 
of household income, then the application of these principles, first, in 
the varied divisions of household expenditures, and finally, in savings 
and investment. There is added a discussion of the methods and 
mechanism of financial records and accounts for the household. 

The household is the ultimate agency in the distribution of economic 
wealth to individuals; what the wage-earner really secures and what 
the wife and children secure, depend upon the efficiency with which 
the household turns the wage-income into economic goods, and, at the 
same time, supplements it, often to a doubled value, by the income- 



30 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

equivalent arising from housework. What ideas should guide in the 
use of money for the household? Is health, education, display, the 
child, the adult, the prime factor in the decision? The former problem 
of purposes in homemaking reappears. Use of wealth may be self- 
regarding or other-regarding and "visible consumption" and "competi- 
tion in consimiption" are facts of significance; consumption may be 
indi\idualistic or may be socialized for the family group, or, as we are 
beginning to see, may be undertaken by community groups for all their 
members. Money measures life, or better, use of money determines 
life, not only for the user, but through consumer's choice it determines 
the status of all producers — so that social responsibility for wealth 
extends from large fortunes to the last penny in the humblest family bud- 
get. Proper distribution of incomes requires : that all needs of the house- 
hold be met proportionately, so that the last dollar spent on every object 
may bring an equivalent satisfaction; that all persons in the group 
receive proportionate benefits; and that future as well as present needs 
be provided for by savings and investment, and that thus all finan- 
cial emergencies and unforeseen contingencies, as sickness, interrup- 
tions to employment, and death, which come in the hfe history of the 
normal household, may by foresight be provided against. Some statis- 
tical studies of household expenditures are made and the significance 
of Engel's laws of consumption and modifications of them pointed out. 
Proper distribution can only be achieved by a budget system of allow- 
ances, determining in advance the amounts to be spent for various 
objects of expenditure, and intended to serve as a guide in actual expen- 
ditures. The money income is properly a common family purse 
from which budget allowances are made for various objects of group 
and individual expenditure, as rent, food, running expenses, clothing 
and personal expenses. As productive work has progressively left 
the household, the spending of money and the relation of household 
and market, have become increasingly important factors — trained 
intelligence in buying, market laws, regulation and inspection, guar- 
antee labels, increased efficiency in market organization, and pro- 
fessional and cooperative buying, have important possibilities for the 
household. That money income should by proper choices and effi- 
cient management be transmuted into those economic goods which 
will most adequately satisfy human need and insure the household 
the best possible level of living is the fundamental principle of income 
use. This principle is applied successively to different items of house- 
hold expenditure and then to savings and investment. 



1913] A Course in Household Economics 31 

Under each item of expense, shelter, food, clothing, operating 
expenses, elective or personal expenditures, an attempt is made to 
state what may be called the standards for the particular fields — to 
indicate the general relations of the particular expenditures to the life 
of the household, and the limits in money expenditure both as to abso- 
lute amounts and as to percentages of the total budget. Such special 
factors as the follo\\'ing also arise in considering the dififerent budget 
items. 

Shelter. — The house as determining the home; ownership versus 
rental; methods of purchase; the widening scope of the rental contract; 
housing standards for country, suburb, and city, and the increasing 
social control of housing; measurement of housing by the house 
score-card. 

Food. — Food costs, a casual sequence from farm to dining room, with 
varied possibihties of economy; the transfer of food preparation out- 
side the household versus home cooking — cost accounting to include 
not only materials and fuel, but labor, equipment, rental, and other 
costs. 

Clothing. — Costs, including laundry, cleaning, repair, storage, a 
field ready for more complete industrialization; proposed legal stand- 
ards for textile fabrics; fashion and clothing costs. 

Operating expenses. — House care, order and cleaning; heating and 
lighting in relation to living; machinery and labor-saving equipment in 
the house — its tardy entry into this non-competitive field ; household 
service as a labor problem; the further transfer of housework to out- 
side industry, to the municipality, and to possible cooperative enter- 
prises. 

Elective or personal expenditures. — The use of money for progres- 
sive personal development of adults, as well as for education of chil- 
dren, is the ideal; recreation, travel, philanthropy, civic relations, 
refinements of life — as reflected in expenditures, but also in house 
furnishings and appointments and in employment of leisure — the 
art of right livang; children — a liabiHty or an asset, costs; the aged and 
dependent relatives; old age as a financial problem. Sickness costs — 
a penalty for poorly-balanced budgets; transfer of sickness costs to 
community and industry in prevention costs; hospital care of sick — 
rural and urban; death and burial costs — suggested municipal super- 
vision. 

Saving is controlled by a standard similar to that for expenditure — 
that the dollar saved shall confer ultimately a satisfaction at least as 



32 TJie Journal oj Home Economics [February- 

great as the dollar spent today. Such special topics as the following 
are treated: Thrift and its significance in financial security and un- 
broken self-dependence for the family; methods of sa\ing and saving 
institutions; t^'pes of insurance of interest to the household, life, acci- 
dent, fire, title insurance; the movement for accident compensation 
laws and industrial pensions, their significance and limitations; tenta- 
tive proposals for state insurance; banks and banking services; invest- 
ments of surpluses from household income, in real estate, in invest- 
ment bonds; types of investment, relative security and rates of return. 

As a final topic imder expenditures, simple methods of household 
records and accounts are presented; desirable records of family and 
personal history; records of expenditure for permanent property, i.e., 
capital accounts; the control of current expenditures by a budget 
of allowances for various purposes; a record system of cash book and 
ledger; the simplified form of combined cash-book and journal giving 
classified records by means of a single entry; summaries by week, 
month, and year, in money amounts and in percentage expenditures; 
inventories of household goods, clothing, and property, and records of 
depreciation and renewal; cash and credit transactions; banking rela- 
tions, check accoimts, savings accounts; vouchers; records of income- 
yielding investments; the housekeeper's desk — files, card-catalogs, 
records. These are some of the topics presented. These matters of 
accounts and records, at present included here, may well be trans- 
ferred in time to a special course dealing exclusively with household 
and institution accounts. 

The elementary course closes with, a summary that re-emphasizes 
the essentially personal character of the household; it is an institution 
for personal living and all its materials and processes are subordinated 
to this high purpose. The successful house manager is rather a 
homemaker; and though such changes may come in the productive 
activities of the household as to many now seem destructive of home 
life, we may rest assured that its personal resources will not decrease, 
but will widen and deepen through all the future. 

One may add but a note as to possibiUties of graduate study, of 
research and investigation in such a field as has been outlined above. 
A graduate course in household economics has been offered for two 
hours each week for a year, pro\dding instruction by lectures, but 
especially affording opportunity for individual and cooperative re- 
search. Scarcely a topic has been mentioned in the elementary course 
that does not present a lure for fascinating inquiry and bear on human 



1913] ^ Course in Household Economics 33 

action at a most significant point in our social economy. During 
the past two years some of the topics considered in the graduate course 
have been: the sources of our ideas on household economy, in ancient 
and mediaeval classics, and the beginnings of this discipline in modern 
writers; first, the "widening interest among the economists from Adam 
Smith who counted housework as unproductive, to Edward De\'ine 
who related household economy to world economy; and second our 
own worthy record of the Home Economists from Benjamin Thompson 
(Count Rumford) through Emma Willard and Catherine Beecher, to 
Ellen Richards and W. O. Atwater of our own time. The subject of 
household budgets and expenditures has been examined in detail, for 
histoiical material and for practical issues; and plans for the present 
year include a study of household serx-ice and, what is more important 
for the average family, the growing dependence of the home upon 
industr}^ as the latter is increasingly fitted to serve the home. Other 
topics for research have been: marketing, institutional laundries, 
practice fields in household administration, cooperation, household 
waste, and efficiency in housework. Industrial studies of vocations 
open to home women, of industries suitable for development at home, 
of the sanitary control of the industries that especially serve the home, 
are most necessary. Here in applied economics are promising fields 
of research which may well attract some interested in equipping them- 
selves for higher teaching. 

The subject of household economics, as was said in the beginning, 
may properly be considered a central course in our collegiate and higher 
curricula in household science. It offers a group of topics of as much 
concern to man as to women and deserving the best attention of both. 

For high schools and elementary schools it is a subject which pro- 
perly organized in the future may well be offered to boys and girls 
alike and thus aid in endowing each unit of the population with the 
household mind; that is, with those appreciations and sentiments — at 
basis valuations and convictions — whereby the young adult may in 
due time take his place in a family group of his own and run the normal 
human experience of household living and in it find resources for per- 
sonal development. 



SOME DATA REGARDING FOOD SUPPLY AND SALE 
IN A MEN'S CLUB.' 

C. F. Langworthy. 

United States Department of Agriculture. 

The sale of food in clubs in the grill or cafe is almost always attended 
by a loss, particulariy when service, fuel, light, laundry, and other 
fixed charges such as the due proportion of the investments represented 
by the club house, are taken into accoimt. One reason for this deficit 
is that food is commonly sold to members at a somewhat lower cost 
than would be charged in a hotel or restaurant for the same foods and 
surroundings. The deficit is met from the general funds of the club, 
of which the chief item is the annual dues paid by members. This is 
a reasonable arrangement, the grill or cafe privilege like the use of 
reading room, stationery, etc., being one of the advantages of club 
membership received in return for annual dues. If the deficit from the 
sale of food is very large it is natural that it should excite comment. 
Good management demands that the income from the sale of food 
should at least equal the expenditures for raw materials. If it does 
more than this under usual conditions, it is evident that the manage- 
ment has been good and the amount of business done relatively large. 
The difference between income and expenditure for the cafe, as shown 
by the system of accoimting followed, was so great in a club for men 
in an eastern city that a special study of conditions was made with a 
view to determining the causes and suggesting remedies. 

The problems which are presented in a club are much the same as 
those in a public institution, boarding house, restaurant, or in fact 
any other place where a careful account is kept of income and expen- 
ditures with reference to food, the differences being in degree rather 
than in kind. It seemed therefore that some of the data recorded in 
the study of club conditions referred to might prove of interest. 

The restaurant in this club has been very carefully managed, a 
great deal of attention being paid to cleanliness and to the selection, 
preparation, and service of foods, and cleanliness and care are usually 

' Presented at the Lake Placid Meeting of the Administration Section of the 
American Home Economics Association, June, 191 2. 

34 



1913] The Cafe in a Men's Club 35 

more costly than the reverse. The dining room has been under the 
direct charge of an experienced woman who has under her a kitchen 
staff of cook, assistant cook, and kitchen helper, and three or four 
waiters and a houseman, these servants all being colored men. Table 
d'hote meals are served and a limited a la carte service is also pro\dded. 
The charges for table d'hote meals are: Breakfast, 35 cents; luncheon, 
40 cents; and dinner, 60 cents. Combination breakfasts of varying 
prices can be procured also, but the regular breakfast at 35 cents, 
which varies from day to day, is the most popular. 
Sample menus of the breakfasts served at 35 cents: 

Bananas or Cereal Tangerines or Cereal 

Chipped Beef in Cream on Toast Omelette with Bacon 

French Fried Potatoes Baked Potatoes 

Toast, Rolls Toast, Rolls 

Coffee, Tea, Cocoa Coffee, Tea, Cocoa 

The luncheon is simple, varying from day to day, the intention 
being to provide an inexpensive meat dish with appropriate vegetables 
and a simple dessert, so adjusting the meal that the total cost of 
supplies does not exceed a reasonable maximum. 

Sample luncheon menus: 

English Beef Pie Cold Boiled Ham 

Paris Potatoes German Fried Potatoes 

Wheat Muffins Corn Bread 

Lettuce Lettuce 

Peaches [Canned] Sliced Pineapple 

Dinner consists of soup, meat with appropriate vegetables, salad 
and dessert, the meats selected being usually the better cuts, with 
poultry twice a week and fish on Friday. With some of the cheaper 
meats, such as corned beef, an alternative meat course, either steak or 
chops, is usually ofTered without extra charge and this custom is also 
followed with certain other meats not generally relished by the patrons. 

Sample menus which show the character of the dinners: 

Consomme Vermicelli Tomato Soup 

Fried Chicken, Brown Gravy Choice: New England Boiled Dinner 

Mashed Potatoes or Broiled Chops 

Creamed Corn Buttered Potatoes 

Lettuce String Beans 

Vanilla Ice Cream Beets 

Coffee Lettuce 

Chocolate Eclairs 

Coffee 



36 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

At all meals an extra charge is supposed to be made for additional 
or for substitute orders except where offered in the menu. 

The greatest patronage of the club grill is during the summer and the 
smallest during December and January. A fair average in summer 
has been 18 to 25 for breakfast, 12 to 15 for luncheon, and 30 to 50 
for dinner. 

Beside the regular meals served in the cafe, sandwiches and other 
simple refreshments are suppUed at any time members choose to order 
them, and simple refreshments are provided, the prices which have 
been charged being moderate, for smokers or other meetings such as 
are frequently held in one of the club rooms reserved for this purpose. 
Furthermore, a very simple buffet supper is provided without charge 
for members on "club night, "which would average about three evenings 
a month during the winter season. 

An examination of the monthly reports made to the club showed that 
usually the income received from the cafe was less than the cost of the 
foods purchased and one of the objects of the study was to determine 
whether this was a matter of bookkeeping and due to a faulty distribu- 
tion of charges, or whether it was due to charging too low prices for 
meals, or to some other cause. The following statement for Decem- 
ber, 191 1, has been selected as a fair average illustration of conditions 
which prevailed, as shown by the accounts rendered. 

During this month the expenditures for groceries and other supplies 
and for wages and other items pertaining to the preparation and 
service of food were as follows: 

Food supplies used $863 . 2 2 

Wages 262 . 75 

Fixed charges: 

Lights 28 . 00 

Fuel 3050 

Laundry 25.95 84.45 



Total $1210.42 

During the same period the receipts as they appeared in the state- 
ment to the club were as follows: 



Meals served guests in dining room $768 

Credit for general housekeeping supplies (matches, brooms, etc.) . 2 

Credit for food supplies issued to one of the departments 15 

Food materials supplied for club entertainments 11 

Board of 4 employees (3 clerks and i other helper) 60 

Food served at smokers and similar entertainments 27 



Total $885 . 20 



1 9 13] The Cafe in a Men's Club 37 

During the month breakfasts served to guests numbered 332, lun- 
cheons 402, and dinners 740, a total of 1474 meals. It may be 
assumed that the food provided for smokers and similar special occa- 
sions was equivalent to 123 meals, this representing the number of 
persons served, making a total of 1597 meals. 

An examination of this statement of expense and returns shows that 
the distribution of debit and credit items is not reasonable. For 
instance, the credit item for the board of 4 employees is at the rate of 
50 cents per day for an average month of 30 days, or $15 per month, 
instead of $1.35 per day which a club member would be charged, mani- 
festly an error of judgment, since the employees received the same food 
as the club members and under the same conditions of service except 
that their meals were served in a private dining room. The financial 
statement takes no account whatever of 3 meals per day served to the 
housekeeper and 2 meals per day served to her son (an arrangement 
which was made when the housekeepers' salary was agreed on) which 
would amount to a total of 155 meals for the month of 31 days, which 
is equivalent to 52 days for i person. These meals, like those of the 
4 other club employees, were the same as those furnished to club mem- 
bers and certainly have a value greater than that assigned in the state- 
ment rendered. 

Furthermore, no account was taken of 372 meals furnished during 
the month to the 3 men in the kitchen and to the house man, or of the 
341 meals served during the month to 4 colored servants in the dining 
room (one of whom was at the club for only 2 meals per day), a total 
of 713 meals, which is equivalent to i man for 238 days. It is apparent 
that the failure to make such accounting was due to the belief that it 
should not be done since no special food was pro\aded for the servants, 
who were expected to make their meals from what remained over 
after the club members and club employees had been served. This is 
a common fallacy in considering food problems. Making all allow- 
ance for the fact that the servants received the tougher portions of 
meat (frequently cooked in special dishes for them) and often did not 
get as large a variety as the club members owing to the fact that 
no attempt was made to provide expensive desserts in quantity suffi- 
cient to supply them ; nevertheless it is true that the food which they 
ate cost the club the same price per pound as that eaten by club 
members, and much smaller quantities would have been required per 
month if no meals were served to servants. 

The failure to include a credit item for the housekeeper (and her 



38 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

son) is due to the same sort of fallacy, namely, that a person who pre- 
pares food is entitled to board without charge. 

Whether or not the saving in food supplies would be offset by the 
increased wages which would have to be paid if no board were given 
to employees and servants is another question; but it is worthy of 
note that there is a growing tendency in hotels to pay higher wages and 
not board employees. 

The factor selected for estimating the board of all employees served 
in the small dining room with the same food as the members, should 
at least be large enough to cover the cost of the food. Dividing the 
total expenditure under consideration for food supply for the month, 
$863, by 1597 (the estimated number of meals served to members 
only, including those served at smokers) gives 54 cents as the average 
cost of food per man per meal, or $1.62 per man per day. The total 
expenditure for food, $863, di\dded by 2155 (the estimated number of 
meals served to members, office staff, housekeeper and her son) gives 
40 cents per person per meal, or $1.20 per person per day. Dividing 
the total expenditure, $863, by 2868 (the total number of meals served 
to members and all employees and servants) gives 30 cents as the 
average cost of food per meal. It is believed that 40 cents per person 
per meal is the fairer value for use in calculating the credit item for 
the board of club employees served in the small dining room. If this 
is done, the credit item for board of 4 employees (men) for 31 days each 
would be $148.80; and for the housekeeper and her son (estimated as 
equivalent to i person for 52 days) would be $62.40. 

Taking into account the fact that the kitchen and dining room staff 
do not receive as attractive food as the office employees and that no 
attempt is made to serve it under the same conditions, a lower value 
should be assigned to it in accounting and it has been assumed that a 
fair value would be one-half of that assigned to the board of office 
employees, or 60 cents per employee per day. The board of employees 
was calculated as equivalent to i man for 238 days, and using the 
above value, the credit item should be $142.80. 

If in the month under consideration credit items were made on the 
basis of the figures suggested, the total credit would be $1179.20 
instead of $885.20 which would show a loss of only $31.22 instead of 
$325.22, as shown by the system of accounting followed. 

The above calculations are based on food supplies only. Other 
calculations based on suppUes, service, and fixed charges, can readily 
be made and including these factors would increase the estimated cost 
of board and so increase the credit items still further. It is believed, 



1 9 13] The Cafe in a Alen's Club 39 

however, that the calculations given are sufficient to show clearly that 
the cafe was in a much better financial condition than was indicated 
by the sj-stem of accounting which was followed. 

Anob\douswayof actually increasing the income of the cafe would be 
to increase the price of meals and this is a question which shoiild always 
receive careful consideration under similar circumstances. A by no 
means inconsiderable increase in income is frequently possible if a 
charge is always insisted on for substitute or extra orders or for any 
other special item, such a change being justified by the general prin- 
ciple "an extra charge for a special service." 

Many problems arise in considering hotel, restaurant, and institution 
dietetics, in which it is interesting to note the cost of ser\dce and the 
fixed charge item per man per meal, and per man per day. The total 
item for wages and fixed charges in the month under consideration was 
$347.20. Dividing this by 1597 (the total number of meals served to 
members only, including those served at smokers, gives 22 cents per 
man per meal, or 66 cents per man per day, as the cost of service. 
Di\iding S347 by 2155 (the total number of meals served the members, 
office staff, housekeeper and her son) gives 16 cents per person per 
meal, or 48 cents per person per day. 

Similar calculations for service only would be $262.75 divided by 
2155, or 12 cents per person per meal; and for fixed charges only, $84.45 
divided by 2155, or 4 cents per person per meal. Of course it would 
be unfair to draw sweeping generalizations regarding cost of prepara- 
tion and service of food from so Hmited observations but the figures 
given above are believed to be fair averages for the club under consider- 
ation and seem worth recording as of general interest, since compara- 
tively limited data are available regarding such items of cost. 

As has been said above, in this club a great deal of food is sold out- 
side the dining room. The rates charged for food supplied for smokers 
and other special meetings, etc., were designed to include a small profit 
but have been based on the cost of materials only. Obviously they 
should include the cost of service required for preparation and a fixed 
charge item also. To obtain an idea of the cost of labor per hour, the 
total sum expended for labor for a month of 31 days, $262.75 was 
divided by 1984 (the total hours of labor of the 8 employees for a 
month of 31 days of 8 hours each) which gives 13 cents. In the same 
way, the fixed charge item of $84.45 divided by 372 (the total "fixed 
charge hours" in 31 days of 12 hours each — the average time the fires 
are kept up and lights required) gives 23 cents as the " fixed-charge- 
per-hour" value. 



40 



The Journal of Home Economics 



[February 



The table below shows the cost of materials, labor, fixed charges, and 
total cost for a number of foods sold at entertainments at the club, 
with the old selling price, and the proposed selling price which would 
take into account the labor and fixed charges as well as the cost of 
food and allow for a fair profit. 

In calculating the data in the table, it has been assumed on the basis 
of observations made by club employees that the labor in procuring 
and preparing different articles represented: Creamed oysters per 
gallon, ^ hour; fried oysters per dozen, 40 minutes; fruit salad per gal- 
lon, I hour; potato salad per gallon, 40 minutes; chicken salad per 
gallon, 2 hours; mixed sandwiches per dozen, 20 minutes; cocoa per 
quart, \ hour; and coffee per gallon, \ hour. With labor valued at 
13 cents per hour, the cost of procuring and preparing foods can be 
readily calculated. 

It would seem fair to consider the fixed charge item (fuel, lights, and 
laundry) for the time fire and light are reqmred to prepare the food. 
Assuming that only one thing is prepared at a time, which is certainly 
the case with some of the items, the average time fire, light, and laun- 
dry work are needed for each article was estimated to be as follows: 
Creamed oysters per gallon, \ hour; fried oysters per dozen, | hour; 
fruit salad per gallon, \ hour; potato salad per gallon, | hour; chicken 
salad per gallon, i| hours; mixed sandwiches per dozen, \ hour; cocoa 
per quart, 10 minutes; and coffee per gallon, ic minutes. All such 
values are at best only approximate, but the estimates are based upon 
careful consideration of the requirements for the work. 

As stated above, the estimated fixed charge value per hour is 23 
cents. From this and the time required for preparation, the fixed 
charge item for the different food materials can be calculated. 



Cost and selling price of foods for entertainments at club. 



Mate- 
rials. 



Labor. 



Fixed 
charges. 



Total. 



OLD SELLING 
PRICE. 



PROPOSED 
SELLING 
PRICE. 



Creamed oysters, per gal . . . 

Fried oysters, per doz 

Fruit salad, per gal 

Potato salad, per gal 

Chicken salad, per gal 

Mixed sandwiches, per doz 

Cocoa, per quart 

Coffee, per gal 



\1.2s $0.07 
o. 25 j 0.09 



2.25 
1 .00 
2.50 

0.45 
o. 20 

0-3S 



0.13 
0.09 
o. 26 
0.04 
0.03 
0.03 



5o.o6 

O. II 

0.06 
oil 

0.34 
0.06 
0.04 
0.04 



$1.38 

0.45 
2.44 
1 . 20 
3.10 

0-5S 
0.27 
0.42 



H-oo 

0-3S 
4.00 
2.00 
5 00 
0.60 
0.50 
1 .00 



H-oo 
0.50 
4.00 
2.25 
5 00 
0.80 
0.50 
1 .00 



I9I3] 



The Cafe in a M eft's Club 



41 



A similar table follows which gives a list of foods served to order at 
any time with the prices which have been charged on the basis of cost 
of materials only, and the proposed prices which take into account 
labor and "fixed charges" also. 

Foods served to order outside of dining room 

PEOPOStD SELLING 
PRICE. 



Pot of coffee 

Cup of coffee 

Pot of tea 

Cup of tea 

Pot of cocoa 

Cup of cocoa 

Bread and butter sandwich 

Roast beef sandwich 

Chicken sandwich 

Club sandwich 

Hot buttered toast 

Pot of tea or glass iced tea with bread and but 
ter sandwich or buttered toast 




If the price charged for articles served at any time to order, and of 
those served at smokers and other similar entertainments, be advanced 
as indicated to include the cost of preparation and a proportionate 
amount of "fixed charges," as well as the cost of materials and a fair 
profit, the restaurant income obviously would be increased. 

It might be argued that the cost of service and "fixed charges for 
these items should be borne by the club. But any such organization 
wishes its restaurant to be as near self-supporting as possible, so must 
make legitimate charges. It is possible to reduce to a minimum the 
ex-penses for service and "fixed charges" for meals that can be definitely 
planned for some time in advance. In the case of the occasional serv- 
ice of food outside the cafe, such regularity of arrangement cannot be 
made; the service is extra, and should be covered by the prices charged. 



Conclusions. 

From the study of club conditions, methods and system of account- 
ing, a number of conclusions were drawn and suggestions made. 

The necessity for including a fair allowance for labor and fixed 
charges in determining the price of foods sold outside the cafe has 



42 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

already been mentioned. This is an important matter and one which 
must be calculated for any given club or other institution, since avail- 
able data seem too limited for drawing general averages which can be 
used. 

The importance of assigning fair credit values for the board of em- 
ployees and servants has also been spoken of and a method of esti- 
mating such values suggested. 

As regards the general problem of increasing the revenue from the 
cafe, there are a number of possibilities the most obvious being increase 
in prices charged for meals. The present minimum charge for break- 
fast is low and might reasonably be increased to 40 cents. When all 
circumstances are taken into account there are reasons for believing 
that the charges for luncheon and dinner, namely, 40 and 60 cents, 
respectively, should not be increased. 

If a simpler and less expensive luncheon or dinner is desired by any- 
one it should be ordered a la carte, and the prices charged should be 
such as would include preparation, service and fixed charges as well 
as cost of materials. Full charge should be made for substitute and 
extra orders or for any other departure from the regular meals. This 
is justifiable since the regular meals can be arranged for in advance, 
whereas departures from the regular plan involve extra service and 
usually different materials, and for this there should be an extra 
charge. 

If the cost of the meals could be diminished while the rates remain 
the same, the income would be obviously larger. Many times reduc- 
tion is possible without lessening the palatability of the meal. For 
instance, expenses can often be diminished by the more frequent use 
of cheaper cuts of meat served in palatable ways, such as beef a la 
mode instead of an expensive roast. The whole purpose of such a 
change would of course be lost if the club member who did not happen 
to fancy such a dish were allowed to select a substitute without extra 
charge. The cost of dinner might also be diminished by omitting 
some item, for instance, salad, or by lessening the number of vege- 
tables. Serving two vegetables besides potato and omitting salad, 
or serving a salad, and one vegetable besides potato instead of the 
present custom of a salad and two vegetables besides potato, would 
effect a saving and change the character of the menu so little that the 
change would probably cause no comment. 

A possible plan for dinner would be the division of the menu into 
"fixed portion" and "extras." For instance, meat, potato, one or 



1 913] The Cafe in a Men's Club 43 

two vegetables, bread, butter, and coffee might constitute the fixed 
item, for which a charge of 55 cents could be made. Soup, salad and 
dessert could be "extra," at 10 cents per item. Coffee might be in- 
cluded at 10 cents per cup in the "extra item" group instead of in the 
"fixed portion" and served in the dining room or elsewhere. 

It would also be possible to serve an entire dinner a la carte and to 
charge prices for individual items which would insure a return equal 
to at least the cost of the food. This plan involves so many factors 
that it cannot now be discussed at length, but one or two points may 
be noted. It is relatively expensive with a small equipment and a 
limited number of patrons to serve any fresh vegetables other than 
potato owing to the large loss from "left-overs." Canned vegetables 
which can be kept in stock are not very generally relished if used too 
frequently. The result is that patrons are inclined to select meals 
with very little vegetable food except bread, which is undesirable 
from the standpoint of dietetics, rather varied meals being considered 
the more satisfactory. 

The club studied has always served meals of good quality, whole- 
some, and well arranged. A great deal of attention has been paid to 
"balancing" the meals from the standpoint of dietetics, in order that 
they might be reasonable physiologically, and wholesome as well as 
palatable. Great attention has been paid to cleanliness in the prepara- 
tion and service of food. This means that one of the great factors of 
hygiene and health has been given due consideration and this is well 
worth while. Guarding the health of club members in all that con- 
cerns the food, ice, water, etc., served in the club is worth time, thought, 
and money. A club with a membership selected from the educated 
and thoughtful may well lay stress on such matters, and should care- 
fully consider all sides of the question before making any change which 
would lessen expenses but, at the same time, lower standards. 



COMMERCIAL LAUNDRIES IN NEW YORK CITY.^ 

William C. Rogers. 

Deputy Commissioner of Labor, State of New York. 

There are seven classes of commercial laundries in New York City, 
some of which need only be mentioned. There are, first, a large 
number of custom laundresses who take family washing to their homes. 
These are not public laundries. Second, there are the Chinese laun- 
dries where work is done on the premises and is brought in and called 
for by the patrons; third, the hotel laundries which do their own flat 
work as well as custom work for their guests and frequently accept 
outside work; fourth, the so-called hand laundries whose relation to the 
steam rough dry laundries will be explained. The other three classes 
of laundries employ steam power machines, and are distinguished from 
each other by the class of work which they do. Fifth, come the flat 
work laundries which do restaurant and hotel washing exclusively and 
practically all the work is done by machine; sixth, the bundle laundries 
which have a direct family trade, collecting parcels of laundry from 
famines and returning them fully laundered, or, in some cases, returning 
the clothing washed but not ironed; seventh, the rough dry laundries 
which deal with the public principally through the alleged "hand 
laundries" and also accept flat work and bundles when they can get 
them. 

In January, 191 2, occurred a strike of workers in the steam rough 
dry laundries of New York City which lasted through the month. 
The causes of this strike were investigated by the State Board of 
Arbitration of which I am chairman. The causes were found to be: 
long and irregular working hours, small wages, and refusal of employers 
to recognize and treat with the union. The Board found that the con- 
ditions as to wages and hours of labor were sufficiently bad to justify 
the complaints of the strikers. 

The laundry strike has shown clearly that the relation between the 
rough dry steam laundries and the hand laundries in New York City 

1 Presented at the Administration Section of the American Home Economics 
Association, Lake Placid, New York, June, 191 2. 

44 



1913] Commercial Laundries in New York City 45 

is in many respects inimical to the welfare of the workers and to the 
public. 

The so-called hand laundries are engaged in a business based on 
misrepresentation, and they failed to justify their existence. The sup- 
port in the city of New York, of 6000 hand laundries where no real 
laundry work is done cannot fail to eat up nearly all the profits of the 
laundry business, and leave inadequate funds for wage payments in 
the steam laundries which deal with the public through the alleged 
hand laundries. 

The testimony taken by the Board shows that each "rough dr>^" 
steam laundry affected by the strike collects from the public through 
about one hundred hand laundries, while steam "bundle" laundries 
which deal directly Avith the public are able to do an equal amount of 
work through about ten branches each. In other words, ten times as 
many branches are necessary, simply to do a little ironing of shirts 
and underclothing, not because it is better done, but in order to carrj' 
out the imposition on the public that all the washing, starching, and 
ironing, is done by hand. 

In addition to the personal living expenses of 6000 proprietors of 
hand laundries, the item of store rentals for so many places is a very 
serious charge upon the profits of the business. It is shown that the 
hand laundries send flat work (sheets, towels, pillow slips, etc.) to the 
steam laundries, loose. There they are washed, dried, and mangled, 
and returned completely finished to the hand laundries for distribution. 
Collars and cuffs are washed and ironed by machine. Shirts are 
washed and starched by machine, but are returned to the hand laun- 
dries for ironing. All other goods (except an occasional delicate fabric 
of silk or woollen) are packed in nets or bags ranging in weight from 
ID to 40 pounds, which are soaked in warm water and thin soap suds 
for a time, then rinsed, in rotary wash wheels, wrung dry in extractors 
and returned damp to the hand laundries, where they are ironed. 
These nets contain soft shirts, underskirts, underwear, stockings, and 
all kinds of other personal wearing apparel of the family. The cloth- 
ing of several families is packed in one net and many nets are washed 
at a time in the same water. 

These nets are washed for either 5 or 10 cents each by the steam 
laundries, and the hand laundries naturally try to get as much cloth- 
ing in a net as may be washed with any degree of cleanness. The 
washing of a net costs from 25 to 50 cents, but they are taken below 
cost in order to get from the hand laundries the profitable washing of 
flat work, shirts, collars and cuffs. 



46 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

A net vdW weigh about four times its dry weight when it is removed 
from the machine, and about t^nce its dry weight when it has gone 
through the extractor. Clothing thus mixed and packed may be 
from clean or unclean famiUes, and from households where contagious 
diseases are found, including t^-phoid, scarlet fever, smallpox, and 
serious blood diseases. It is generally conceded that action of soap 
or other detergents and hot water in the washing process is not intense 
enough to kill such germs, because strong soap or hot water cannot 
be used on nets containing colored goods or the colors would run and 
flannels would be shrunk. It is an insanitary process which has devel- 
oped from the use of nets, originally devised to contain fine white 
laces and linens which would be lost on account of small size or dam- 
aged in fabric by rough tumbling in the wash wheels if not protected 
by nets. 

When the steam laundries try to abohsh the use of colored nets or 
of heavy white nets, the hand laundries organize cooperative steam 
laundries which will take nets of all kinds and thus compel the steam 
laundries either to take them against their wishes or go out of business. 

The hand laundries, in furtherance of their fraudulent pretenses, 
promise work returned to customers on pretense of doing it by hand, 
in too short a time for it to be done in reasonable hours by the steam 
laundries. 

Another reason for irregular and long hours is the fact that work 
is collected Monday for delivery Monday night or Tuesday morning, 
and collections are made Thursday afternoon and Friday for return 
Saturday. Collection on a better plan would allow regular and 
systematic hours in steam laundries throughout the week. Work 
for deUvery Saturday should not be collected after Thursday noon. 
Thursday afternoon and Friday collections should be returned Mon- 
day and Saturday collections Tuesday. 

The keen competition among steam laundries to get hand laundry 
patronage, besides the necessity for rentals and living profits for 6000 
almost useless laundries in New York make it impossible for the steam 
laundries to pay decent wages. 

Legislation is necessary to correct the relation of steam and hand 
laundries and to correct the abuse of nets. Our legislature has enacted 
a 54-hour law for factory women which includes workers in laundries, 
so that nine hours a day six days a week will be a maximum week of 
work. In order to make a half day Saturday it will be legal to work 
ten hours a day five days and four hours on Saturday. This becomes 



19 1 3] Institution Laundries 47 

effective October first and will result in a great betterment of working 
conditions among laundry workers, many of whom testified to our 
Board that they were working over 60 hours per week, over 12 hours 
per day on certain days, later than 9 p.m. on certain days, and other- 
wise \'iolating the existing factor^' laws. 

Copies of the report of the Board of Arbitration on the laundry 
investigation may be found in the March Bulletin of the Labor Depart- 
ment, which will be sent on request. 

It is a matter of vital interest to the home that pubUc laundries 
shall be sanitary and that the employees shall be paid a living wage 
for a fair day's work. The enforcement of the labor law should not be 
left entirely to the inspectors of the labor department. The inspec- 
tors are few and do the best they can. Employees cannot be expected 
to complain of violations of the law. If they complain they fear 
discharge, and their real need of work to get a bare li\dng makes them 
tolerate intolerable conditions. Citizens can cooperate with the 
labor department by making complaint to us where there is any 
actual or apparent \iolation of the law. 



INSTITUTION LAUNDRIES.! 

Report of the Committee on Their ORGA>r[ZATiON and 
Administration. 

Your committee began its work last November. It had before it 
three aims: first, to ascertain as fully as possible in how many places 
and under what conditions the problems of laundering in institutions 
were being solved; second, whether there was a felt need for women of 
thorough education in the supervision of such plants; and, third, what 
should comprise such education. To accomplish these aims a ques- 

1 Presented at the Administration Section of the American Home Economics 
.\ssociation, Lake Placid, June 1912. The committee sent out the following letter: 

"Laundering in institutions is recognized as a large problem in sanitarj-^ and 
economic management. The .Vdministration Section of the American Home Eco- 
nomics .Association asks j'our cooperation in furnishing such data as you can on the 
enclosed schedule, and those who can are asked to supply the additional data, with 
copies of price lists, formulas, circulars, etc. 

".4 new profession for women is taking shape, the supervision of laundry work, 
which has within it great opportunities for service not only in educational and other 
institutions, but possibly in time, within the community. This investigation seeka 



48 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

tionnaire and a circular letter were sent to hospitals, college dormi- 
tories, and other institutions throughout the country. 

The scope of the investigation is so great that the number of ques- 
tions which might helpfully be asked proved unwieldly. Even after 
much ehmination the document proved formidable to many who 
received it. 

The questionnaire was sent out late in March and replies from about 
one-third of the institutions have been received. 

As funds were not available for an extended study, it has been possi- 
ble to present only a small part of the results. Only about one-half of 
those who returned the questionnaires answered the first questions, 
and no one answered all of the questions. However, there is in the 
hands of the committee a mass of extremely valuable material and 
there is much to be learned from a minute, detailed study of and 
comparisons among the answers when they can be fully tabulated. 
Therefore the committee respectfully presents its report of something 
attempted, something done, and holds the material available for future 
work, subject to your wish. 

A few gross sumimaries are presented here. 

Representation. — Questions were sent to every State in the Union, 
to Panama, Hawaii, Ontario, Quebec, Manitoba and Saskatchewan, 
and returns were received from one or more in each state or province 
except Arkansas, Mississippi, Saskatchewan, and Hawaii. 

Summaries from laundries in thirty hospitals and twenty-one colleges or universities. 

Location: All but two wish a separate building. Others say: high ground, plenty 
of air and sun, near power plant, centrally located in the hospital group, preferably 
in the service building. Two prefer the top floor or two floors so as to utilize the 
roof for drying purposes. 

Exposure: Only a few answers and there is no evident choice e.xcept that the 
building shall be open to all the winds of heaven; north exposure, if only one. 

information which will help in organizing the subject-matter for instruction in 
laundry management. We shall greatly appreciate your cooperation, and as speedy 
an answer as is convenient is desired that the report may be presented at the annual 
conference of the Association in June. 
"By the Committee, 

L. Ray Balderston, 

Teachers College, Columbia University. 
Jessie M. Hoover, 

University of Idaho, Moscow. 
S. Maria Elliott, Chairman, 

Simmons College, Boston." 



1913] Institution Laundries 49 

Type of building: One, or at most two floors, and building of brick, stone, or 
brick with cement. 

Floor: Half choose cement; the others choose tile, terazzo or concrete, while one 
emphasizes the benefits of wood in the ironing room, because of the lessened weari- 
ness to the workers. 

Wall finish: There is a great diversity in these returns: brick, enameled, painted 
or whitewashed, glazed tile, cement, hard finish, painted or oil finished pine. All 
seem to agree that it is best "to be able to turn on the hose." 

Cost: Varies from S5500 without equipment to $20,000 including equipment; 
the cost of six equipments given was $3603. 

Supervision: Two-thirds of the hospitals are under the general supervision of 
the hospital superintendent; seven have a separate superintendent. 

Outside li'ork: Onl}' one does any work outside its own plant or its branches. 
(See Columbia, Mo.) 

Is laundry self-supporting or maintained as a sanitary measure? On this ques- 
tion the returns are about equally divided. A small balance is on the side of 
economy while all agree that it is necessary to sanitation and to desirable hospital 
management. All colleges favor a laundry under college management. 

Teach institutional laundering: None. 

Demand for college-trained women: Only two dare to e.xpress any con\nction. Of 
these, one thinks "yes." Five out of the eleven think positions as laundry super- 
visors may develop for women who will take one year of training in a technical 
school with laboratory practice in laundry methods, followed by a period of appren- 
ticeship in an institutional laundrv'. 

The age requirement is rather generally unanswered. One says: 
"Age is not so important as practical experience," but the ages given 
as a minimum range from eighteen years to forty years, with an aver- 
age of twenty-four years. The answers show that maturity is con- 
sidered desirable. 

The technical training called for runs from "four weeks" (which 
shows how little the question was understood — although one demands 
"unUmited experience") to three years; the average calls for two 
years. 

The belief that supervisory positions will be in demand for the 
woman who has had one year of training in a technical school with 
laborator}' practice in laundry methods followed by apprenticeship in 
an institution laundry, is variously expressed: "Yes, if she is practical;" 
"Yes, if she has the 'bossing' instinct." One believes that the field 
will open in the community as well as in the institution. 

The tj'pe of person thought necessary includes about all that either 
a man or woman could be — intelligent, resourceful, efl&cient, economi- 
cal manager, willing, industrious, energetic, accurate, able to solve 
problems and combine science with daily work, capable of managing 



50 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

help, ■^'illing to study his job, tactful, wdth mechanical and adminis- 
trative ability. These show the direction in which education and 
training should be directed. 

The studies thought to be necessary are numerous: Chemistry, 
bacteriology', hygiene, sanitation, textiles, steam engineering, plumb- 
ing, domestic science, accounting, practical and theoretical scientific 
management. These seem to culminate in "a thorough knowledge 
of all branches." 

One answer sums up the others' opinions well: "Laboratory, appren- 
ticeship, and experience, with some ideas of social work among women." 

The foUoTvang opinions quoted from Butler Hospital, Pro\ddence, 
R. I., are along the same line: 

All of the processes carried out in a laundry are chemical and a laundry might 
very properly be called a chemical laboratory with a large output. In order to do 
this work and carry it on with the least possible damage to clothing and obtain the 
necessary results requires a person of exceptional characteristics. In the iirst place 
such a person must be able to handle help in such a way as to get a maximum amount 
of work from them without tearing down their constitutions. It requires a person 
of tact and a keen insight of many things. Such a person will be able to make an 
institution laundry an economic factor in hospital management. The proper per- 
son will carry on the work with several less employees than will be required of one 
less competent. It is not necessary for this person to do a large amount of manual 
work herself, but she must be so familiar with every branch and process connected 
therewith that she would be able to step in and do any employee's work in any 
department of the laundr>^ I do not believe that a woman who has taken one year's 
training in a technical school with large practice in laboratory method would be 
able to take a position as laundry supervisor without having a considerable period 
of training in either an institution laundry or a commercial laundry. In my own 
experience I have brought laundry troubles to the attention of men who have been 
constantly in the laundry business for twenty-five or thirty years to have them as 
puzzled over it as we have been here. I should say that there might be a demand 
for college trained women in this branch of work, but the person who would make 
a success as a laundry forewoman or a laundry supervisor must possess certain 
natural characteristics that with education would fit her to take up a similar posi- 
tion in almost any walk in life. 

For this educated and trained person the expected salary ranges 
from five dollars per week and living up to one hundred and fifty 
dollars per month, which one man is now getting. From fifty to sixty 
dollars per month with living seems to represent an average salary 
which those who answered considered "excellent." 

Expectations. — Expectations for new laundries show the field to be 
widening. If so many are to be opened, who will supervise them? 



1913I Institution Laundries 51 

That there is a need of better knowledge, supervision, and help in solv- 
ing difficulties is shown by the following quotations: 

I'. W. C. A., Washington, D. C, Florence M. Brown, General Secretary: For two 
years we maintained a laundry in another Association. It was never very popular, 
although we had a few pupils each year. Personally, I believe it is a subject that 
we would do well to push until we have learned to teach it properly and make it as 
popular as the teaching of cooking. 

Walnut Hill School, Natick, Mass.: Miss Bigelow and I have often canvassed 
the question of establishing a laundry, but owing to difficulty of getting reliable 
information as to proper equipment, cost of maintenance, etc., we have never done 
50 We should be very glad to know the results of your investigation. 

Earlham College, Richmond, Ind.: Xext year we hope to have things in better 
condition and to work out some problems that will enable us to make comparisons 
with other institutions doing a like amount of work. I hope that the next meeting 
of the Administration Section will be able to draft some standard form which can 
be used for statistical purposes. 

Y. W. C. A., Boston: We find plenty of women who want the position of laundry 
matron but they do not usually want to do much work. The work is what we need. 
Our laundry is a busy place and with present labor conditions we have frequent 
breaks in the ranks of the plain, everyday workers. So a Superintendent must 
know how to manage when she has no help and work presses. 

College educated women will not take such work. Our girls are taken at a low 
rate of board. Ten pieces of plain laundrj- are included in the price of board and we 
cannot pay salaries to a large staff. So far as I can judge, our work is not as strenu- 
ous as it is in most institution laundries. Institution workers are now often free 
every evening and all day Sunday. 

The class of help from city sources is the worst known; few women could control 
them. 

Florida State College for Women, Tallahassee, Fla. Built a laundry and attempted 
to run it for three months, but found it impracticable and impossible to maintain 
because the number of students at that time was less than two hundred. The 
expense of maintaining the laundry was so great that the girls objected to the added 
expense of their laundr>-. The negroes in the community do the "washing" well 
for fifty cents per week per student, regardless of the number of pieces. It is impos- 
sible to run a small laundry here and make expenses on any such price. Conse- 
quently we can't get the girls to patronize the laundry. 

V. W. C. A., Scranton, Pa.: Scranton has a model laundr>- — The Lackawanna — 
which does splendid welfare work for its people. 

V. M. C. A., Bufalo, N. Y.: Profits are small, and a trained worker should 
demand a higher salary. The public as yet does not appreciate careful laundering, 
it is looking for present results. 



52 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

The fullest return of the 212 came from Mt. Hermon School for 
Boys, Mt. Hermon, Mass., where all of the laundry work is done by 
the boys of the school with results which the superintendent thus 
summarizes: 

In the beginning of the year work runs a little hard, but after the first six weeks 
the place runs with scarcely a hitch. There is no limit to the amount of plain clothes 
which the students may send. We mean that they shall be clean. The students 
pay four dollars for plain laundry, which includes everything not included in our 
starched list. I am not afraid to put the work of my boys on shirt waists and white 
dresses in competition with the fancy ironing of any laundry in the State. 

The laundry itself is cleaned by the boys in this fashion : 

The first thing in the morning the floor is swept thoroughly (including corners). 
After that the machinery is dusted — two bo3's do this work and it takes about two 
hours, but it is worth the time. Saturday we scrub the floor and scald out the bas- 
kets; clean all the machines and wipe the belts with a damp cloth. Once in four 
months we go over all the interior with scrubbing brushes. 

Her qualifications? — "Must love work and be a worker" "She must start at the 
bottom and work up." 

He explains his choice of the term "forelady" in this way: 

For any woman who acquires the art of properly handling the finery of her 
sisters deserves a place with the heads of departments in any institution. 

Her place is anywhere from the engine room to the office, and she (or he) must 
have a working knowledge of steam and should be able to do any part of the work 
from stoking the boiler to ironing a white gown of Mexican drawn-work. 

The age? — Forty; and that the salary should be from fifteen to seventy-five dol- 
lars per week, depending upon the size of the institution. 

The requisite studies are chemistry, bookkeeping, steam-fitting, plumbing, and 
domestic science. A knowledge of chemistry is absolutely essential since one must 
know what not to use as well as what to use and the eS'ect upon the goods. Book- 
keeping is necessary in order to know whether the balance is where it should be. A 
knowledge of steam engineering and the working of steam trap; also how to install 
and set up machinery and do some steam fitting — how to lace a belt and how to fire 
a boiler — all these things are necessary to success; these are the practical things, 
and laundry work is not all theory. It would be necessary to spend at least one 
year knocking about, so to speak, in every part of the work to learn something of 
everything. One need not be able to do everything better than the other fellow 
but should know enough to be able to tell when it is done well and how to do it well. 

I am glad for the sake of the profession that the conference is taking up this 

study The salary would depend on the ability of the person and the 

work to be done and would be based on the profits — or the amount sav^ed over 
previous managers. 



19 13] Institution Laundries 53 

It seems pertinent also to present two quotations from the stand- 
point of the commercial laundryman. The first is an extract from 
the National Laundry Journal, June i, 1912, p. 2: 

The Northwestern Launderers' Association has put in motion a vigorous cam- 
paign for the enactment of a national law compelling the correct labeling of fabrics. 
The buyer should be able to know what he is getting; there is no 
intent to deprive him of the right of buying adulterated or imitation fabrics if he 
desires to do so. This is the psychological moment for concerted action, and it is 
to be hoped that some plan can be formulated which will induce everj' laundryman 
to give his individual attention to the matter and urge his representatives to work 
for the enactment of the much-needed law. 

The second quotation comes from the same Journal for May 15, 
191 2, and explains itself: 

CojoitrNiTY Laundries. 

Laundry owners whose plants are located in agricultural districts will do well to 
get in position to serve the farmers at once, and forestall the "community" laun- 
dries which are rapidly springing up. Wherever one of these plants is established 
and proves successful, it will sooner or later begin to compete with the local laundry 
which is now established. The first plants advocated by the rural and agricultural 
papers might be called toy concerns, the plans calling for equipment of the house- 
hold type, but now the Agriculturist, of Minneapolis, one of the leading farmers' 
papers, is advocating regular power laundry equipment and plenty of it. While 
facilities for doing only rough-dry work are contemplated in its estimates, it would 
only be a short time until such a concern would add a little more machinery and be 
in some cases a better equipped plant than the existing laundry. Therefore we 
would advise the laundrymen of these communities to forestall such plants by 
preparing to do the farmers' business and then get to do it to their satisfaction. 

These summaries bring the subjects of the investigation before you 
in a general way. The details of organization have not been fully 
tabulated and are of little value outside of their proper setting. 
Respectfully submitted for the Committee, 

[signed] S. Maria Elliott, 

Chairman. 



PENNY LUNCHES IN ROCHESTER. NEW YORK.^ 
Alice M. Hotc3ikin. 

Since April, 191 1, a penny mid-morning luncheon has been served 
to the undernourished and anaemic children in the second, third, and 
fourth grades in two of our grammar schools. These children are not 
necessarily underfed but are more or less below normal and need the 
strength and nourishment which this added meal at 10.15 o'clock 
suppHes. 

In every instance teachers report a decided improvement in the 
mental ability of the child ha\dng this nourishment. 

These luncheons consist of hot soup, cocoa, milk, boiled rice, cooked 
fruit, peanut, jam, and jelly sandwiches. With soup, cocoa, milk, 
and cooked fruit a piece of bread or three crackers are served for the 
penny. The amount charged for the food pays for materials but does 
not furnish the labor required in its preparation. This expense has 
been met by the Women's College Club and Woman's Educational 
and Industrial Union. 

In another grammar school a more elaborate meal is served at 1 1 .30 
for the benefit of a special class of truants and so-called incorrigibles 
who come from other schools in the city. Most of these boys are of 
foreign parentage coming from homes where they are not properly 
nourished. Not a few of them are self-supporting, earning a certain 
amount each day before and after school by selling newspapers. 

When this class was first organized the boys were not in the least 
interested by the attempts made to instruct them. Searching for 
some reason for this lack of progress the principal of the school found 
that three-fourths of them came to school without any breakfast, 
and that their noon lunch consisted of stale pastr>' which they bought 
for a few cents. Believing that lack of nutrition had a serious bearing 
upon this condition she asked that a penny luncheon be served these 
boys at 1 1.30. The result has been that those students who had fallen 
behind in their studies from truancy or waywardness were soon brought 

* Presented at the Lake Placid Meeting of the Administration Section of the 
American Home Economics Association, June, 191 2. 

54 



1913] Lunches in Elementary Schools 55 

to such a standard of scholarship that it is possible for theiu to be 
returned to their home schools. 

In this school the Board of Education equipped a kitchen and 
furnished a small lunch room with mission tables, chairs, and pretty 
dishes. For the first six months the Mothers' Club paid for the labor, 
but since that time the Board of Education, appreciating the value 
of these lunches, has furnished the labor. These lunches consist of 
soup, meat stews, hash, steamed sausage, macaroni, potatoes, rice, 
desserts, fruit, cocoa, milk, bread, crackers and cake. The average 
amoimt spent is four cents, and about forty students are fed each day. 

These lunches are so attractive that pupils from other grades asked 
to be allowed the privilege of the lunch counter. This favor is granted 
where the food supply is sufficient after feeding the truant class. 

When paper napkins were first introduced they were a real curiosity 
to these boys, but after becoming acquainted w4th their use, they are 
unable to eat without them. As one boy said, "Gee! it's lots better 
than using your sleeve, and say, I looked into an eating house the other 
day and saw folks using cloth ones." Another boy took his napkin 
home, and after explaining its use to the family they decided to try 
the piece of paper with the result that I had the pleasure of buying a 
package containing a thousand napkins for this family. The mother 
said, "It does save the sleeves and aprons so." 

These are but a few of the interesting items connected with these 
lunches, but is it not enough to prove that the penny lunch has 
educational value? 

EDUCATIONAL NEED AND VALUE OF LUNCHES 
IN ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS.^ 

General. — All the arguments of health, social value, convenience, and 
expediency that have won the fight for the provision of wholesome, 
well-planned meals served at cost to the children of high school age, 
apply equally to a similar pro\asion for children of the elementary 
schools. 

Opportunities for education, direct and indirect, and for habit 
forming are greater with the younger children, first, because they are 
younger, and second, because there are so many more of them. Follow- 
ing are some of the educational possibilities, many of them realities, 

* Prepared for distribution to the School Board by the Philadelphia School Lunch 
Committee of the Home and School League. 



$6 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

where schools are equipped •with the lunches. (26 United States 
cities, 200+ English cities, 150 German cities, 1200 French communi- 
ties, 55 Italian cities, etc.) 

(c) Direct: Ob\dous advantage of warm, attractive, palatable food 
to the body. Formation of regular habits of eating well cooked food. 
Valuable experience in social intercourse, mingling freely with fellows 
and teachers on a friendly basis. Table manners and social amenities. 

{b) Indirect: Correlations with direct instruction in elementary 
hygiene, physiology, proper mastication, care of teeth, cleanliness. 
Teaching of food values: instead of tracing the digestion of an imaginary 
meal, tracing the digestion of school meal: academic versus concrete. 
Correlation with the pure food movement: need of Americans particu- 
larly for sane ideas about food and its relation to working efficiency. 
Accustoming the children, especially foreigners, to know and like the 
cheaper and more wholesome American foods. Little Jewish and Ital- 
ian children are learning to Hke hominy, and corn meal, and simple 
meat-dishes. Economics: There is actually a large amount of money 
available in the form of pennies that children are spending every day. 
Why not take advantage of the opportunity thus offered for teaching 
children to spend money properly and buy food wisely? A conserva- 
tive estimate made hastily shows that an amount is actually spent at 
present in the schools having penny lunches equivalent to a dollar 
per child during the school year. 

Penny lunches at 10.30 a.m. — Specialists in children's diets are com- 
monly agreed that little children need more frequent meals than do 
grown-ups, and that a mid-morning meal, lighter than either break- 
fast or lunch, is very wholesome. This need is well attested by the 
eagerness with which children get food from any source during the 
morning recess. Where there are no school lunches the children either 
get the pretzels, candy, or pickles from push-cart men ; or when these 
men are not allowed before the school door, they get wares before 
school and save them ; or they eat lunches brought from home for their 
noon lunch. Experience has shown that children will get something to 
put in their stomachs at this time, and if not wholesome food, then the 
poisonous substitutes of the streets. A light, well-planned, and there- 
fore easily assimilable meal in the middle of the morning has an imme- 
diate effect on the children's power of attention and their resistance to 
fatigue. That this makes the remainder of the session far more effi- 
cient is the universal testimony of teachers wherever the lunches have 
been tried. 



1913] Wanted, A Test for "Man Power" 57 

Three-cent dinners at noon. — The aim of the modern school: To reach 
the whole child, not his head merely. The noon hour ofifers an unri- 
valed opportimity to reach the child through the two most important 
channels that its nature affords: the play instinct and the food interest. 
The Department of Physical Training of this city has recently for- 
mulated the idea of an hour recess at noon in all schools, with super- 
vised play and a school lunch. (This advantage is realized by all 
good private schools.) According to the observation of at least one 
principal, a large amount of truancy is caused by the long, uncontrolled 
noon recess, with its lure of the streets. 

Note. — Although a large proportion of our school children — 10 per- 
cent, by conservative estimate — are suffering from malnutrition, the 
relief of this condition is not the aim of school meals. It is the convic- 
tion of the majority of the workers in the movement that if the school 
is to assume responsibility, it must be because of purely educational 
considerations. 

WANTED, A TEST FOR "MAN POWER."^ 

Ellen H. Richards. 

The force which has accomplished work in the world has always 
been man power. Progress in mechanical work has been greatly aided 
by the adoption of standards to which an effective machine must con- 
form. Standards of human accomplishment are needed to measure 
the output of man. It was cheaper to have the peons of Mexico dig 
the great drainage canal than it was to install excavators because of 
the cost of fuel and transportation. It is cheaper in the mines of Mexi- 
ico to have these same peons carry the ore sacks up what they call their 
chicken ladders than to install hoisting machinery. Such people 
live on about 3 cents a day, ItaUans, Bohemians and many foreign 
laborers who come here live at the rate of 10 or 12 cents a day, while 
our average American workmen wants at least 25 cents a day for his 
raw food material and as he does much more work, in this case man 
power depends largely on the food he eats. 

Every human being is a self-contained motor; we do not go to pump- 
ing stations and get charged up for a day's work, but we are obliged 

' Abstract of commencement address at Clarkson Institute, 1906, and read by 
Mrs. Dewey at the Administration Section Meeting of the American Home Eco- 
nomics Association, Lake Placid, June, 191 2. 



58 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

to manufacture from the food we eat, the exercise we take, and the 
general good condition w^e are in, all the energy we have, not only what 
we need to keep ourselves warm, to keep the heart pumping, but all 
this force, this m.an power that we have to spend. It has been esti- 
mated that a man who has a very good digestion, very good circula- 
tion and lung capacity, is able to do about one-fifth as much as a 
horse; not the first time, without practice, but as an ideal. Electric- 
ity gives a much better comparison with this man force, of which we 
do not see the source, as we do in the horse pulling a load, but 
we know the force is there because of the power evident in results. 
We use the term efficiency for the result of electric current and we are 
transferring that term very generally to human achievement. The 
human body should be a very good electric motor, because we have 
nerves, those little threads which give the impulse to motion and 
carry out the "will. An ordinary machine, the steam engine, uses only 
about ID per cent of the liberated energy, while electricity frequently 
utilizes 90 per cent. The human body, havmg the most perfect 
mechanism known in the way of ropes and pulleys and lubricated 
joints, ought to utilize a very high per cent of the energy manufac- 
tured. If we do not there is something wrong, some friction, some 
resistance reducing the power or some lack of connection. We fritter 
away a great deal of energy in just mere heat work, in friction. Like 
the electric current, there must be good contact between the places 
whence the force comes and the things we wish to accomplish. There- 
fore we are making today, more than ever before, a great study of 
what is the best environment for the production of this human power. 
First is good digestion. The food must not only be eaten, it must 
be assimilated, there must be good circulation, because the food must 
be carried to every tiny cell, for it is in the tiny little cells everywhere 
that force is liberated. There must be good and refreshing sleep, 
because, like electricity, there must be an accumulation of energy 
before we can get pressure to use. There must be good lung capacity, 
good breathing power, to bring oxygen to burn up the food we take in 
order to give us this energy. There is no other way to get it, one 
should stand right, keep one's shoulders right and have the fresh air 
habit. All the nerves must be in good condition because of the more 
exacting demands of life today. It is absolutely necessary to have a 
sound body to manufacture and to conduct the electrical, or whatever 
force it is within us, to the \ery best advantage. That is why we 
are preaching so strongly the doctrine of health, of sanitation, of 



1913] Wanted, A Test for "Man Power" 59 

education in all these things which are given in the courses of home 
economics. 

This physical efficiency, as a basis for mental efficiency, is the fun- 
damental point of the human production of the force which surely 
moves the world, and which is the most valuable force we have. A 
horse is worth, perhaps $200, a man, a day laborer, $2000. A good 
teacher is worth $20,000, if you take the salary expressed as interest. 
A good engineer is worth 8200,000 actual capital, and yet much more 
care and study has been put on the food for our $50 pigs and $200 
horses than for our $200,000 engineers. This human force is so valu- 
able because today it is the direction of affairs which we expect the 
human power to take. It can assemble and collate and collect forces 
and get results. It is the man or woman who sees the end clearly, who 
knows what can be done, how this thing can be made better, how the 
whole thing can go together for human progress. The peon digging in 
the canal, has just himself, he lives on 3 cents a day and does a little 
work just as he is told. Those who work the forces, who have the 
powers, want 60 cents a day for food and are worth it, too, because they 
are working a great deal more in force and power than has been possible 
before today. 

Huxley, defining an educated man, says: 

That man, I think, has had a hberal education, who has been so trained in youth 
that his body is the ready servant of his will, and does with ease and pleasure all 
the work that, as a mechanism, it is capable of; whose intellect is a clear, cold, logic 
engine, with all its parts of equal strength and in smooth working order, ready Uke 
a steam engine to be turned to any kind of work, and spin the gossamers as well 
as forge the anchors of the mind; whose mind is stored with a knowledge of the 
great and fundamental truths of nature and of the laws of her operations; one who, 
no stunted ascetic, is full of life and fire, but whose passions are trained to come 
to heel by a vigorous will, the servant of a tender conscience; who has learned to 
love all beauty, whether of nature or of art, to hate all vileness, and to respect others 
as himself. 

The difficulty has been a lack of personal responsibility for personal 
power. Excuses are made: "Oh, well, I was born so." "Well, my 
father never could do that and my grandfather never could do that." 
An acrobat, an actor, almost any human being can make of himself 
almost anything if he is willing to work hard enough for it. If he 
fails it is because of lack of will to do it. We need something which 
will teach us to nourish the will. Those who are going to make for 
power in the world are those who can work against resistance, who do 
a thing because it has to be done. 



6o The Journal oj Home Economics [February 

We ought to have within us a sense of spare energy, a force of abound- 
ing vitality. We ought to wake in the morning, glad that we have a 
day's work to do and feel the ability to do it. When young men go 
out into the world that sort of thing is found out very quickly. The 
world is a severe task master, a person finds his level very quickly, 
no matter what he is trying to do. Inefficiency is a growing evil. 
We should find in ourselves a test of our ability to do. We have no new 
word to express this, only the word used in electricity — efliciency. 

The habit of allowing children to grow up in any kind of way, eat- 
ing just what they like, playing if they like, studying if they like and 
what they like, may seem very nice to the children, but it does not 
give them the right sort of habits, it will not develop character, force, 
and efficiency. This material machine of ours is manufactured in 
the home, from the habits of life formed there. All the sciences must 
be made to contribute to the problems of better living conditions which 
render possible the truer production of human energy, which in its 
most valuable form, creates, organizes, combines and controls all other 
forces. The future of America does not lie in railroads, in machines, 
in commerce, in agriculture. The future of our republic will be deter- 
mined by the character of the American homes. 

EXTENSION WORK IN HOME ECONOMICS THROUGH 
AGRICULTURAL AGENCIES. 

Anna Barrows. 

Much extension work in agriculture is being done all over the coun- 
try and with this every year more home economics is combined. 
Though some still question whether this is a proper use of funds 
appropriated for agriculture, there e\ddently is increased recognition 
of the importance of the country home. 

Originally the state board of agriculture or a special commissioner 
was responsible for the farmers' institutes and what is commonly 
classed under extension work, but this usually was affiliated with the 
agricultural colleges and experiment stations. 

Gradually the colleges have come to see their large opportunities 
for reaching the people, by means of short courses and correspondence 
and by sending trained workers to those who cannot come to the 
college. Five years ago few colleges had definite extension depart- 
ments. Now over thirty are reaching out in this way. There is, 
however, something to be said in favor of separate organizations, 



1913] Extension Work in Home Economics 61 

working in harmony, that the people themselves may feel direct 
responsibility for the arrangement and carrying out of programs. 

The farmers' institute specialist, John Hamilton, in a report on 
"Farmers' Institutes for Women," notes that over 13,000,000 women 
and girls live in rural districts, and that to reach such numbers with 
even limited facihties for the study of domestic science and household 
arts wall require a radical change in the methods heretofore pursued, 
movable schools must be organized, etc. 

Three or four years ago the directors of farmers' institutes in the 
United States held over seven hundred institutes for women, but the 
report for 191 1 published in the fall of 191 2, does not show a great 
advance. 

The states holding the largest number of women's institutes are 
these; Delaware, 29; Florida, 2; Maryland, 6; Michigan, 48; North 
Carolina, 401; North Dakota, 5; Oklahoma, 183; South Carolina, 4; 
Utah, 4; Wisconsin, 86. Home Economics however undoubtedly 
received attention at many of the 16,000 sessions of the regular 
institutes. 

Those who ^\^sh further data will do well to refer to bulletins from 
the OflSce of Experiment Stations and to the proceedings of the annual 
meetings of the Farmers' Institute Workers. The proceedings^ for 191 1 
contain the digest of a questionnaire sent out by Miss Martha Van 
Rensselaer, chairman of the Committee on Women's Institutes for 
that year. No report was made by this committee at the last annual 
meeting. The chairman for the coming year is Mrs. F. L. Stevens of 
Mayaguez, Porto Rico. 

Farmers' institutes for young people- recently have been developed. 
Competitive exhibitions are held and premiums offered which stimu- 
late interest in the farm and its products. The western and southern 
states have been more active in this line than the east. To balance 
the corn raising contests for the boys canning clubs for the girls have 
been formed especially in the south; this work has been fostered by the 
Bureau of Plant Industry and a circular concerning it was issued in 
January, 191 2. 

The aim is to have the boys and girls start right. Normal children 
love to work with their hands and should be trained to work together 
since cooperation is a special need of country districts. 

* Circular 85, Office of Experiment Stations. Farmers Institutes for Women. 
^ Circular 99 of the Office of Experiment Stations. Farmers Institutes for 
Young People. 



62 The Journal of Home Economics [February- 

Some institute workers deprecate the separation of the members of 
a family by holding different meetings for men, women, and children, 
just as church workers have felt that lack of cohesion in community 
inteiests was an ine\itable result of too many special organizations. 
Class consciousness is found to interfere with natural united effort in 
family, church, and commimity. 

A general farmers' institute, with one session for women and one for 
young people, appears to be best adapted to most communities and is 
usually approved by the institute conductors. 

Agricultural instruction trains must also be reckoned as important 
factors in extending information about farming and home-keeping.' 
The Seaboard Air Line was one of the first railroads to discover the 
advantages of such exhibits. Recently the railroads in several states 
have cooperated with the agricultural agencies, providing cars, offer- 
ing prizes for record crops, and giving special rates to the institute 
workers and the farmers attending state meetings. There is a possible 
danger that manufacturers of utensils and food products may occupy 
an undue space in such exhibits. North Carolina in 1908 appears to 
deserve credit for sending out the first car furnished for instruction in 
domestic science. 

The "Farmers' Week" at the agricultural colleges is becoming gener- 
ally established and often extends through a fortnight. This cannot 
directly reach as many people as the institutes and movable schools 
which come closer to the homes. But those who spend their money 
and their time to go to the colleges doubtless make a greater personal 
effort to secure returns for what they have invested than if it were 
oft'ered without any cost to themselves. 

For the same reason it has been found wise to charge nominal fees 
or make certain requirements of the communities where movable 
schools have been held. An important feature for extending informa- 
tion regarding agriculture is the printed matter sent out to the people 
from the agricultural experiment stations and colleges. Home Econo- 
mics receives more attention in this way each year. 

The Cornell Reading Courses, "Lessons for the Farm Home" are 
published semi-monthly throughout the year. In this series, within a 
few months have appeared, "Principles of Jelly Making," by N. E. 

' Circular 112, Office of Experiment Stations, Transportation Companies a fac- 
tor in Agricultural Extension. 

Bulletin 251 of the Office of Experiment Stations. Proceedings Sixteenth Annual 
Meeting of Am. Assn. of Farmers Institute Workers. 



19 13] Extension Work in Home Economics 63 

Goldthwaite, of the University of Illinois; "Saving Strength," by Emily 
M. Bishop and Martha Van Rensselaer; "The Preservation of Food 
in the Home," by Flora Rose; "Rules for Cleaning," by Mary Urie 
Watson of Guelph, Canada. 

Excellent bulletins occasionally have been sent out from the house- 
hold science departments of several state universities, notably those 
by Miss Rosa Bouton, Nebraska; Mrs Calvin, Indiana; Miss Stanley, 
Missouri; from Ohio State University, etc. 

In Kentucky the Home Economic Clubs and the Women's AuxiUary 
Clubs of County Farmers' Institutes have prepared a bulletin vdih. 
plans for organizing such clubs. The Department of Household Science, 
University of Illinois, has issued a syllabus of domestic science for the 
high schools of that state. Oregon Agricultural College has prepared 
a suggestive two-year course in cookery and one in sewing for the 
elementary and secondary schools of Oregon. The Wisconsin Depart- 
ment of Farmers' Institutes has printed thousands of cook books and 
home bulletins for distribution. 

In limited space it is impossible to do justice to work of the individ- 
ual states. Many lack financial support from the legislatures; others 
find difficulty in securing lecturers who can make practical apphca- 
tion of scientific knowledge. But every state is doing something 
in popularizing the fundamental principles of the art of living. 

Kansas has been a pioneer in women's work both in its state college 
and in institutes. Indiana is well organized and has done excellent 
work for home economics. Michigan has had ten women lecturers 
on the force of institute speakers. 

Colorado was one of the first states to conduct movable schools of 
domestic science. Three teachers usually were sent out to give instruc- 
tion for five days in a place. To secure such courses it was necessary 
for one hundred women to register and pay a fee of one dollar. 

The Iowa State College has a department of agricultural extension 
and Miss Neale S. Knowles has conducted the domestic economy 
exercises. Courses in foods and cookery are arranged for the boys' and 
girls' clubs. 

The State College of Washington, under Miss Josephine T. Berry, 
holds schools of a week in different parts of the state. The plan has 
been to give lectures on nutrition and sanitation in the morning, and 
laboratory work in the afternoon. The school has a portable equip- 
ment for twenty-four. 

The Illinois Domestic Science Association affiliated with the Farm- 
ers' Institutes, and the Department of Household Science of the 



64 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

University of Illinois, in charge of Professor Isabel Bevier, has done 
notable extension work throughout that state. A two weeks' school 
for housekeepers is held annually at the university with about two 
hundred women in attendance. This is followed by a six weeks' course 
in cooking and serving which was offered for the first time last year, 
when forty women availed themselves of it. A larger attendance is 
anticipated this year. 

Further work is done throughout the state in movable schools. 
Over twenty will be held this season, the instructors in which are Mrs. 
Jennie C Barlow and Miss Florence Harrison. The local organization 
pays traveling and hotel expenses of the instructors and equipment, 
provides suitable hall, blackboard, stove, refrigerator, tables, larger 
utensils, and materials, and the college suppUes the teachers. 

Wisconsin for several years has had a week's school in home eco- 
mics during the winter under the direction of Professor Abby L. 
Marlatt. This year the central thought will be "Cooperation, Rela- 
tion of Home to the Community." Professor McKeever of the Kan- 
sas State Agricultural College will give lectures on "Teaching Children 
to Save" and "Rural Renaissance and After." Mrs. Nellie Kedzie 
Jones of Auburndale, Wisconsin, wall give lectures and instruct classes 
— as she has done in many other states, and at the Illinois State Fair. 

The veteran farmers' institute director for Wisconsin, Mr. McKer- 
row, long has approved of domestic science instruction and many 
women's sessions are held throughout the year. 

The Missouri Homemakers Conference has held five annual meet- 
ings in connection with Farmers' Week at the State University, Colum- 
bia. Among the subjects considered have been — "Advances in Infant 
Feeding," "Recreation for the Farmer's Wife and Children," etc. 
The short course for women begins January 6, 1913, and lasts for 
seven weeks. Some correspondence courses in sanitation and die- 
tetics are offered by the Department of Home Economics under the 
direction of Miss Louise Stanley. The State Board of Agriculture 
employs Miss Nell Nesbitt as institute lecturer, who is working toward 
the further organization of the Homemakers Clubs. 

The University of Minnesota, under President George E. Vincent, 
has enlarged its plans for extension work. A week's program was 
arranged for each center chosen, one day was devoted to public health 
and another to home welfare. The eighteen communities where this 
was tried last year unanimously asked for a repetition. A special 
effort was made to bring city and country people together that they 
might realize the needs they have in common. 



1913] Extension Work in Home Economics 65 

Oklahoma has been progressive in organization and through its 
State Board of Agriculture has offered short courses in agriculture and 
domestic science in each county. By a system of contests, a prize 
of a week at the state fair, or at the district agricultural school of the 
college, is offered to the boys and girls of the state. 

Among other eastern states New York is easily first. The directors 
of Farmers' Institutes for many years have given the women of the 
state a share of the lectures of the institutes. Occasional women's 
institutes have been held and special sessions are frequent. At Cor- 
nell the Homemakers Conferences and short winter courses in home 
economics are forms of extension work, since there is no entrance 
requirement and no imiversity credit granted. 

New Jersey, Delaware, and Pennsylvania hold some special meetings 
for women in connection with regular institutes. The state agricul- 
tural college of New Jersey has this year for the first time established 
a course in Home Economics. 

New England has done less work through its agricultural agencies 
than some other sections, probably because of the activity of its 
women's clubs and the older established schools of household science. 
All the states in this group send out occasional home economics lec- 
turers through the boards of agriculture. Professor Bertha M. 
Terrill of the University of Vermont does considerable extension lec- 
turing. Miss Comstock has charge of the Home Economics D epar tment 
at the University of Maine and for some time has been chairman of 
this section for the State Federation of Women's Clubs. The Con- 
necticut Board of Agriculture had one home economics address at its 
annual meeting last year and Miss Hayes of the Agricultural College 
has arranged a course of lectures for extension schools. 

Professor W. D. Hurd of the Massachusetts Agricultural College 
has planned a helpful series of lectures available at nominal rates 
to granges, women's clubs, and schools throughout the state. Miss 
Diana M. Constable has been the principal lecturer on Home Eco- 
nomics. 

In the South there is more a demand for separate sessions for the 
women. North Carolina has had some wide-awake women who have 
provided special programs on domestic science topics. Prizes for 
bread to be awarded in accordance with the score card devised by 
Professor Isabel Bevier have been offered at some of the North Caro- 
lina institutes. 

Florida has had a farmers' institute train on which Miss Agnes 



66 The Journal of Home Economics [February- 

Harris of the Florida State College for Women at Tallahassee did 
good work with charts, exhibits, and lectures. 

West Virginia University at Morgantown held a short course in 
domestic science in February, 191 2. Professor Rachel H. Colwell 
also has aided the women's clubs in home economics courses and gives 
occasional lectures at institutes in different parts of the state. 

The Tennessee Department of Agriculture seems to be awake to the 
importance of instruction for the whole family and encourages indus- 
trial clubs for the young people and homemaking sections at its farm- 
ers' conventions. Miss Catherine A. Mulligan of the State University 
responds as far as possible to calls from the homemakers clubs which 
are auxiliary to the farmers' institutes of the state. 

Kentucky devoted one day to women's interests at a state institute 
held in Frankfort last winter, and is organizing homemakers clubs, 
and has sent out a train on which home economics was represented. 

The University of Texas is planning to do some extension work 
in the near future. 

Ontario, Canada, may teach the "states" some lessons in the organi- 
zation of institutes for women. In 191 1 there were nearly 20,000 
women enrolled as members of the women's institutes and the attend- 
ance at the meetings was over 150,000, Last year a new plan was 
started by the Superintendent, George A. Putnam, in a group of six 
institutes and a course of demonstration lectures on Food Selection and 
Preparation.. This was so successful that a similar plan is being fol- 
lowed this year and a course on sewing is being given also. One of the 
lecturers says, "The first week's meetings in the lecture course in food 
preparation have amply evidenced the interest the women are taking 
in the course. It seems to indicate a desire on the part of the women 
to keep pace with a movement that is world-wide, the betterment 
of human life and of increased efficiency. Viewed in this way, rather 
than as an opportunity to learn a few new dishes, the course assumes 
added importance." 

THE OBSERVANCE OF HOME ECONOMICS DAY. 

The seventieth anniversary of the birth of Ellen H. Richards, Decem- 
ber 3, 191 2, was appropriately observed in schools and colleges, and 
by women's clubs and other organizations throughout the United 
States and Canada. The Richards Memorial Committee received 
word of meetings in Boston, Seattle, New Orleans, Minnesota, 
Chicago — to name only a few of the most widely scattered points. 



19 13] Observance of Home Economics Day 67 

One letter from the far West said, '"My girls had never heard of Mrs. 
Richards, and when I told them of her they decided to call their 
students' organization the Ellen H. Richards Home Economics Club." 
This may well be the beginning of a chain of student Richards Clubs 
in all institutions which teach home economics. 

One Southern college sent for lantern slides illustrating the home 
economics movement and Mrs. Richards' life. Many of our higher 
institutions may wish to add these lantern slides to their collections, 
and thus be able to bring to their students each year something of the 
life of the remarkable leader of the home economics movement. 

One school in Illinois inquired whether it could not secure an en- 
larged portrait of Mrs. Richards, which could be framed for its school 
laboratory. Mrs. Richards' family graciously gave permission to 
have the enlarged photograph made, and the Committee has now 
arranged so that any school can secure it at a cost of two dollars up. 

The Memorial Committee published for Home Economics Day 
sketches of Mrs. Richards' life, one based on Miss Hunt's biography, 
and the other a story for boys and girls by Miss Frances Stern called 
"The Fourth R — The Art of Right Living," and these with briefer 
sketches of "Xenophon, the First Home Economist," "Count Rum- 
ford, an Early American Home Scientist," and "Catherine Beecher 
and Our First Home Economics Book," written by Mr. Andrews, 
aided in the program of observance for Home Economics Day. Copies 
of these pamphlets may still be obtained through the Association's 
office, Roland Park, Baltimore, Maryland. 

The Ellen H. Richards Home Economics calendar for 1913, edited 
by Miss Isabel Hyams, has been received as a most fitting tribute 
M-ith its photographs of Mrs. Richards and illustrations of scenes 
connected with her life, and its striking quotations from her writings. 
The calendar was printed too late, unfortunately, for sale on Home 
Economics Day, but there has been a widespread demand for it. 
A few copies are still available at fifty cents. 

Home Economics Day was made the occasion in many institutions 
of raising contributions for the Ellen H. Richards Memorial Fund. In 
some cases students held candy sales or entertainments in connection 
with the program of observance. Everywhere, however, the day 
seemed to have been an occasion of recalling the services of the leader 
who has gone, and of making plans to bring to a fuller realization her 
hopes for the widespread adoption of instruction in the art of right 
living in all schools and colleges. Plans are already being made for 
Home Economics Day, December 3, 1913. 



EDITORIALS. 

Probably nothing more clearly proves that our efforts toward a 
state of efficient and orderly social existence are at present very ele- 
mentary than the fact that there is as yet no place in 
A Library of even the best equipped library for the records of 
Social Experi- what we may call The Social Experiment. True, 
ments. certain famous efforts to live the ideal life have 

been the subject of careful study and record, Brook 
Farm for one, principally, it would seem because many of the people 
who tried for "a more natural union between intellectual and manual 
labor," were well known in the field of letters, and the public craved 
knowledge of how Curtis or Hawthorne would run a plow or pare a 
potato. Full accounts also of Robert Owen's communistic colony 
founded on the Ohio River nearly a century ago are available, for 
this experiment was conducted on a large scale with large funds and 
by a man who was at that time very prominent in English philanthropy. 
But every year obscurer people are trying out their theories of 
better adjustments of the factors that make up daily living. The 
primitive subjects, food, clothing, and shelter, are capable of infinitely 
varied expression and all these efforts to apply newer physical and 
economic laws to age-old problems are slowly bringing about the New 
Housekeeping. Slowly, yes, far too slowly, for only by accident is a 
generation able to avail itself of the experience of the one preceding. 
A few examples will illustrate. Cooperative Housekeeping has a 
persistent hold on the imagination of women; since the Cambridge 
Experiment in 1870 every decade sees some much heralded effort in 
this direction. Sums of money are raised, a band of women give all 
their time for a season to work out the details, then comes collapse. 
Money and enthusiasm, hard work and ingenious devising have come 
to naught. The promoters say they have "failed," whereas they have 
in reality been doing a real service to any who may come after by 
showing how not to attempt Cooperative Housekeeping. The trouble 
is they do not realize their duty to their successors to print a detailed 
account of their experiment in a prominent journal where it can be 
readily found no matter how many years later it is wanted. And the 
same may be said of the attempts to establish cooperative buying. 

68 



19 13] Editorials 69 

In Boston, in 1890, the New England Kitchen was opened in order to 
apply to the cookery of the cheaper food stuffs the results of modern 
science. It had an interesting career and it made possible the serving 
of lunches to the public schools of Boston, the first attempt of the 
kind. Its report was written in a little pamphlet of which perhaps a 
dozen copies are in existence, and this is the history also of the School 
of Housekeeping aften\'ards adopted by Simmons College, and of the 
Household Aids Company, the report of whose two years' work on the 
problems of furnishing hour and day service for the household was 
admirably written up by Mrs. Richards. The Arundell Club of Balti- 
more made all the estimates for a Cooperative Laundry and the report 
of it is lost in the advertising shoals of an obscure magazine. 

Is the Journal of Home Economics to be the means of rescuing 
these interesting records from obli\aon? And will it be the medium 
in which records of future experiments of the kind will be preserved? 
All depends on the funds that can be placed at its disposal. 

Visit a large hospital and note at each bed the case record of the 
patient as it is kept by doctor and nurse. Stop and consider that 
these case records are all to be indexed and filed for the use of other 
physicians studying like cases. Thousands of these are available 
for their study. The science of diagnosis and of treatment is built up 
in this way. 

Our experiments in better methods of conducting our daily life on 
the material side will make but slow and halting progress until we 
begin to collect, sort, print, and file the records of every attempt, 
whether for its positive or its negative lessons. 

In November, 191 2, the first Bulletin of the American Home Eco- 
nomics Association was issued to all members of the Association. 

The Bulletin is not intended in any way to compete 
Bulletin. with the Journal, but is a means of communication 

between the Association and its members, for giving 
advance notices and programs of the Association, for pubhshing a list 
of the members, for promoting, and advertising the work of the Associa- 
tion and the Journal. The January Bulletin contains the list of mem- 
bers of the Association, and the constitution, revised to date. There 
are many subscribers to the Journal who are not members of the 
Association, and some members of the Association who are not sub- 
scribers, and with the Bulletin it is hoped to keep in touch with all of 
our friends, and to persuade them that the best results are obtained 
by being both subscribers and members. 



70 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

Beginning with this issue of the Journal the list of affiliated asso- 
ciations and their officers will be published regularly in the Journal. 
It is unavoidable that this hst is at present incomplete, 
Afl&liated As- but it is hoped that before long a correct list of these 
sociations. associations and their officers will be available. Cor- 
rections and additions should be sent at once to the 
Managing Editor of the Journal. 

As announced elsewhere in the Journal the annual meeting of the 
Association will be held at Cornell University, Ithaca, N. Y., June 
21-27, 1913- The Administration Section will hold 
Annual Meet- its annual meeting at the same time and place, as 
ing for 1913. will also the Housekeepers' Section. The experi- 
ment of holding a summer meeting instead of the 
usual winter meeting is being tried, as the demand from teachers and 
other workers, as well as from students, indicates that such a meeting 
is greatly desired. The prospects, even at this early date are that the 
meeting will be a large and enthusiastic one. The program will be 
published in an early number of the Bulletin and also of the Journal 

The Journal will be glad to buy at forty cents ($0.40) per copy 
the following numbers of the Journal: Volume I, numbers i, 2, 3, 

and 5; Volume II, number i; and Volume III, num- 
Back Num- bers 2 and 3. The amount for returned numbers 
bers Wanted, will be credited to the subscription or paid in cash, 

whichever is desired. Please send to the Journal 
OF Home Economics, Roland Park Branch, Baltimore, Md., and 
notify the Journal what numbers are being sent. 

There are about 5000 libraries in the United States, only 240 of 

these are subscribers to the Journal. How shall we increase this 

number? Letters, even when accompanied by sam- 

Libraries as pie copies, we have reason to believe, do not always 

Subscribers reach the attention of the librarian, and in any case 

a busy official is apt to delay action. 

But there is one method of appeal which no library can resist, the 
repeated call for any book or journal by even a few of its readers. 

Will every one who reads this make it a matter of personal duty 
to ask for the Journal at the local library, to ask again and again, 
and to enlist the help of friends in this laudable enterprise and when 
the Journal has been placed on the shelves to see that it Is called 
for and read. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF CURRENT LITERATURE. 

I. Foods. 

Biochemical and Bacteriological Studies on the Banana. E. Monroe Bailey, 
Jour. Am. Chem. Soc, December, pp. 1706-1730. 

The Normal Composition of American Creamery Butter. S. C. Thompson, 
R. H. Shaw, R. P. Norton, U. S. Dept. of Agr., Bull. 14Q, Bur. of Animal Ind. 

A Method for the Determination of Starch in Meat Food Products. T. M. 
Price, U. S. Dept. of Agr., Circ. 20 j, Bur. An. Ind. 

A Simple Test for the Determination of Butter Fat in Butter. J. M. Doran, 
Jour. Indus, and Eng. Chem., November, pp. 841-842. 

The Packing of American Sardines. H. H. Hanson, Orig. Com. 8th Intern. 
Congr. Appl. Chem., 18, 131. American sardine industry described in detail. 

The Original Acidity of Milk. F. Bordas, Orig. Com. 8th Intern. Congr. Appl. 
Chem., 18, 67 (cf. Chem. Abs., November 20, p. 3291). Due to free casein. 

Coal Tar Colors used in Food Products. B. C. Hesse, U. S. Dept. of Agr., Bull. 
147, Bur. Chem. 

Note on the Detection of Benzoic Acid in Milk. Cecil Revis, Analyst, vol. 37, 
p. 346 (cf. Chem. Abs., November 20, p. 3293). 

Kafir Corn Flour Bread. C. Dillon, Northwest Miller, vol. 90, pp. 79-80. A 
good substitute for commeal. 

Wheat Flour. A monograph. Harry Snyder, Orig. Com. 8th Intern. Cong. 
Appl. Chem., 18, 323-328 (cf. Chem. Abs., November 20, p. 3294). 

An Investigation on the Manufacture of Tea. S. Sawamura, Orig. Com. Sth 
Intern. Cong. Appl. Chem., 18, 313 (cf. Chem Abs. November 20, p. 3295). 

StaUng of Bread. E. Verschafifelt, Chem. Abs., November 20, p. 3295 (from 
Chem. Werkbad, 9, 544-8). 

"Springers" in Canned Foods — Causes and Prevention. H. A. Baker, Orig. 
Com. 8th Intern. Cong. Appl. Chem., 18, 39 (cf. Chem. Abs., November 20, p. 3296). 

The Bacteriology of Fermentation and Putrefaction in Relation to the Conser- 
vation of Foods. S. C. Prescott, Am. Jour. Pub. Health, November pp. 834-840. 

Proper Handling of Dressed Poultry. M. E. Pennington, Butcher's Advocate, 
vol. 52, no. 22, pp. II, 12. 191 2. 

Food Preservatives and the Sodium Benzoate Question. J. H. Long, Sc. Am.. 
Suppl. vol. 74, November 6, p. 307. 

Unscientific Food Test. W. T. Sedgwick, Sc. Am. Suppl., vol. 74, November 
6, p. 306. 

The Disappearance of Added Formaldehyde in Milk. Joffa and McCharles, Am. 
Food Jour., vol. vii, p. 114. 

A New Formula for the Calculation of the Per Cent of Added Water in Cow's 
Milk. Bull. Tex. Board Health, vol. 17. 

Analyses of Flours and Breads. Chemists Report, Ontario Agr. Coll. and Exp. 
Farm, 1911, pp. 67-86. 

71 



72 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

The Grinding of Corn Meal for Bread. F. P. Dunnington, Orig. Com. 8th 
Intern. Cong. Appl. Chem., i8, 119-127 (cf. Chem. Ahs., December 10, p. 3479). 

The Preparation of Westphalian Hams. Jour. Roy. Soc. Arts, 60, no. 3092, 
p. 416, 1912. Distinctive flavor thought to be due to juniper used in smoking. 

The Aromatic Substances of Foods and Condiments. Pure Prods., vol. 8, no. 5, 
pp. 264-270, 1912. A descriptive summary. 

The Arsenic Content of Shellac and the Contamination of Foods from this 
Source. B. H. Smith, Pure Prods., vol. 8, no. 7, pp. 376-379. Shellac used to 
coat cheap candies. 

Canning Meats. Breeders' Gaz., vol. 62, no. 8, pp. 314-315, 191 2. A house- 
hold method described. 

The Coconut and Its Commercial Uses. Bui. Imp. Inst., So. Kensington, vol. 
10, no. I, pp. 76-94; no. 2, pp. 264-281, 191 2. 

Vinegar Making from Waste Grapes. Ex. Station Record, Ixxii; compiled from 
Calif. Sta. Bui. 227. 

Uses of the Sweet Potato. Ex. Sta. Record, Ixxii; compiled from South Carolina 
Sta. Bui. 165. 

Coffee Substitutes — Chicory. Editorial, Jour. Am. Med. Assn., November 9, 
p. 1722. 

Studies on the Ripening of Cheddar Cheese. Hastings, Evans and Hart, U. of 
Wis. Agr. Exp. Sta., Research Bull. 25, 191 2. 

Two Hundred and Nine Ways of Preparing the Apple. L. Gertrude Mackay, 
Better Fruit, 7, no. 4, pp. 13-28, 36-41, figs. 18, 191 2. A collection of recipes. 

Rice. Cuba Mag., 4, no. 2. pp. 77-80, 1912. A collection of recipes, a number 
of them for Cuban dishes. 

2. Nutrition. 

Calorimetric Observations. Graham Lusk, Med. Rcc, November 23, pp. 925- 
928. Influence of protein, fat, and carbohydrate on rate of metabolism. 

Caloric Feeding in Tuberculosis. N. Gilbert Seymour, Med. Rec, November 2, 
pp. 792-795. Practical experience with low-priced dietaries. 

Quantitative Regulation of Diet in Diabetes. P. J. Cammidge, Brit. Med. Jour., 
October 12, ii, no. 2702. 

Protein Metabolism from the Standpoint of Blood and Tissue Analysis. III. 
Further Absorption Experiments with special Reference to the Behavior of Creatine 
and Creatinine and to the Formation of Urea. O. Folin and W. Denis, Jour. Biol. 
Chem., vol. xii, pp. 141-162. 

Protein Metabolism from the Standpoint of Blood and Tissue Analysis. IV. 
Absorption from the Large Intestine. O. Folin and W. Denis, Jour. Biol. Chem., 
vol. xii, pp. 253-257. V. Absorption from the Stomach, O. Folin and H. Lyman, 
Ibid., 259-264. 

Amino Acid Nitrogen of the Blood. Preliminary Experiments on Protein Assim- 
ilation. D. D. Van Slyke and G. M. Meyer. Jour. Biol Chem., vol. xii, pp. 399- 
410. 

The R61e of Gliadin in Nutrition. T. B. Osborne and L. B. Mendel, Jour. Biol. 
Chem., vol. xii, pp. 473-510. 



1913] Bibliography of Current Literature 73 

The Effect of a Strictly Vegetable Diet on the Spontaneous Activity, the Rate 
of Growth, and the Longevity of the Albino Rat. Chem Ahs., December 10, p. 

3449- 

The Essential Constituents in Food. E. F. Armstrong, Chem World, I, no. 5, 
pp. 147-149, 1912. Summary of newer work in nutrition. 

Second Experimental March to Investigate the Amount of Food Required by 
Men on Active Service. Roy. Army Med. Corps, vol. 17, pp. 629-643. Energy 
expenditure per man per day calculated as 3989 cals. 

Investigations into the Jail Dietaries of the United Provinces, with Some Obser- 
vations on the Influence of Dietary on the Physical Development and Well-being 
of the People of the United Provinces. D. McCay, Set. Mem. Med. and Sanit. 
Depts. India (n. ser.), 1911, no. 48 (cf. Chem. Abs., December 10, 1912, p. 3449). 

An Experiment on a Fasting Man. F. G. Benedict, Science, vol. 35, no. 909, 
p. 865. Brief note on 31-day experiment. 

The Ehmination of Caffein. Wm. Salant and J. B. Rieger, U. S. Dept. of Agr. 
Bull 757, Bur. Chem. 

Dietetics, Ancient and Modern. Pearce Kintzing. Diet, and Hygienic Gaz., Sef>- 
tember, pp. 539-453. Some interesting customs. 

Supplemental Breast Feeding in Infants. H. M. McClanahan, Jour. Am. Med. 
Assn., November 23, pp. 1877-1881. 

The Ability of Mothers to Nurse their Children. J. P. Crozer Griffith, Jour. Am. 
Med. Assn., November 23, pp. 1874-1877. 

The Pancreatic Ferments in Infants. A. F. Hess, Am Jour. Diseases of Chil- 
dren, October, p. 205. 

Agar Tubes in the Determination of the Pancreatic Ferments. Max Einhom. 
Med. Rec, October 12, 650-652 (note), November 16, p. 905. 

Changes Induced in Blood by Feeding. G. Mann and J. G. Gage, Lancet, Octo- 
ber 19. 

The Influence of High Temperatures on Protein Metabolism with Reference to 
Fever. Graham, George and Poulton, Quart. Jour. Med., vi, 82, 1912. 

On Cooked Foods. Katherine I. Williams, Knowledge, 35, n. ser., 9, 191 2, no. 
531 , pp. 381-385. A popular presentation of the principles of dietetics and methods 
of food analysis. 

3. Hygiene and Sanitation. 

The Milk Supply. Chas. Cristadoro, Med. Rec, November 23, pp. 941-943. 

Pure Milk Demanded for New York Restaurants. Swrwy, September 14, 191 2, 
p. 742. 

Sale of Milk in N. Y. City. Survey, November 16, 191 2, p. 208. 

Successful Efforts of a Small City to Secure a Milk Supply from Tuberculin 
Tested Cows. C. W. Wells, Amer. Jour. Pub. Health, September 191 2, pp. 702-706. 

The Case for Pasteurization. Edwin O. Jordan, Jour. Am. Med. Assn., October 
19, pp. 1450-1458. 

The Care of the Baby in Hot Weather. Ind. State Bd. Health, 191 2. 

What Cleveland Has Done for Its Milk Supply. C. W. Eddy, Bui. Ohio St. 
Bd. of Health, October 191 2. 

Cold Storage and Public Health. W. T. Sedgwick, Am. Jour. Pub. Health, 
November, pp. 825-829. 



74 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

Cold Storage in Relation to the Food Supply. H. E. Barnard, Am. Jour. Pub. 
Health, November, pp. 855-860. 

Physics of Refrigeration. P. H. Bryce, Am. Jour. Pub. Health, November, pp. 
829-834. 

Hygienic Results of Refrigeration in the Conservation of Fish and Mollusks. 
H. D. Pease, Am. Jour. Pub. Health, November, pp. 849-855. 

The Hygienic and Economic Results of Refrigeration in the Conservation of 
Poultry and Eggs. M. E. Pennington, Am. Jour. Pub. Health, November, pp. 
840-849. 

Report of the Commission to Investigate the Subject of Cold Storage of Food 
and of Food Products kept in Cold Storage. Boston, State Report, 191 2. 

Rules and Regulations Relating to Cold Storage. Bui. Mass. St. Bd. of Health, 
September, 191 2. 

Uncooked Vegetables and Typhoid Fever. N. Y. Med. Jour., June 8, 191 2. 
Reprinted in Texas Bui. State Board of Health, September, 191 2. 

Sewage — Polluted Oysters as a Cause of Typhoid and other Gastro-Intestinal 
Disturbances. Geo. W. Stiles, U. S. Dept of Agr., Bull. 156, Bur. of Chem. 

A Bacteriological Study of Shell, Frozen and Desiccated Eggs. Geo. W. Stiles. 
U. S. Dept of Agr. Bull. 158, Bur. of Chem. 

Laws Relative to Sanitary Control of Public Eating and Drinking Places. W. 
F. Dutton, Jour. Am. Med. Assn., December 7, pp. 2020-2022. 

The Sanitary Regulation of the Oyster Industry. F. P. Gorman. Am. J. Pub. 
Health, 2, 77-84. 

The Hygiene of Swimming Pools. M. P. Ravenel, Jour. Am. Med. Assn., Octo- 
ber 19, p. 1424. 

Insects as Carriers of Infectious Diseases. Editorial, Jour. Am. Med. Assn., 
November 16, p. 1798. (References to Gales, U . S. Nav. Med. Bull., 1912, vi, 212, 
on roaches; Kerr, Ibid., p. 316, on bedbugs; Anderson and Frost, Pub. Health 
Rept., October 25, 1912, p. 1733, on flies.) 

Insects as Agents in the Spread of Disease. Charles T. Brues, Popular Science 
Monthly, p. 537, vol. Ixxxi, no. 6, December, 1912. 

Residential Sewage Disposal Plants. Warren H. Booker, Bui. Texas State Board 
of Health, September, 191 2. 

The Disposal of Municipal Wastes in Small Cities and Villages. R. F. Mac- 
Dowell, C. E., Bui. Ohio State Bd. of Health, November 191 2. 

Hypochlorite Treatment of PubHc Water Supplies. W. H. Dittoe and R. F. 
MacDowell, Bui. Ohio St. Bd. of Health, October-November, 191 2. 

Bad Ventilation and Its Effects on Health. Editorial in Bui. Ohio State Board 
of Health, November, 1912. 

Disposal and Purification of Sewage. C. E. Hoover, Bui. Ohio St. Bd. of Health, 
October 191 2. 

Street Cleaning from a Sanitary Standpoint. Editorial, Bui. Ohio St. Bd. of 
Health, October, 191 2. 

The Health of Suburban Residences. Pennyslvania Bulletin of Health, reprinted 
in Bulletin Texas State Board of Health, September, 191 2. 

The Problems of Public Health. E. F. McCampbell, Ph.D., M.D., Bulletin Ohio 
State Board of Health, November 191 2. 

Some Aspects of Anaphylaxis. John Auer, M.D., Rockefeller Inst, for Med. 
Res., Popular Science Monthly, p. 434, vol. Ixxxi, no. 5, November, 191 2. 



19 13] Bibliography of Current Literature 75 

A Sanitary and Health Survey. Geo. T. Palmer, Diet, and Hyg. Gaz., October, 
pp. 590-594- 

Hookworm Disease. Anna T. Sorgenfrey, Pac. Coast Jour. Nursing, August, 
pp. 363-367. Interesting popular description. 

Effects of Temperature and Humidity on Fatigue. Fred. S. Lee, Amer.Jour. 
Public Health, November, 191 2, pp. 864-870. 

The Sanitan,' Conquest of the Philippine Islands. Col. L. Mervin Maus, Med. 
Rec., December 7, pp. loi 7-1020. 

Fresh Air and How to Use It. Thomas Spees Carrington, Natl. Assoc, for Study 
and PrevcHllon of Tuberculosis. Si. 

The Control of Contagious Diseases in a MimicipaUty. Guy L. Kiefer, Jour. 
Am. Med. Assn., December 7, pp. 2022-2026. 

Effect of Present Prevention of the Spread of Consumption. T. J. Mays, Med. 
Rec, November 30, pp. 975-977. 

A Hygiene Exhibit for Use in Schools. Bid. Ind. State Bd. of Health, April, 1912. 

How a Typhoid Carrier was Located at Elgin State Hospital. R. T. Hinton, 
Inst. Quart., 3, 191 2, no. i, pp. 18-20. An employee in direct charge of bread 
cutting. 

The Adulteration of Garden Produce. Nat. Food Mag., 33, no. 2, p. 103, 191 2. 
With poisonous chemicals which have been used as sprays. 

The Plumbing of Country Homes. \V. D. Brinckle, Farm and Fireside, 36, no. 
i,PP- 25, 27, 1912. 

The Determination of the Phenol Coefficient of some Commercial Disinfectants, 
T. C. McClintic, Pub. Health and Mar. Hosp. Serv., U. S. Hyg. Lab., Bui. 82, pp. 
35-74: Mo. Bui. Bd. Health Mass., n. ser., 7, no. 8, pp. 284-286, 1912. The phenol 
coefficients of 54 commercial disinfectants are given and the use of U. S. P. Liquor 
cresolis composilus having a phenol coefficient of 3 and costing only about 50 cents 
a gallon is recommended on the grounds of efl&ciency and economy. 

4. Education and Social Work. 

Problems of the Day; Domestic Subjects in Elementary and Industrial Schools. 
The Englishwoman, October, 1912, pp. 8-16. 

The Secondary Industrial School, Columbus, Georgia. Roland B. Daniel, Voca- 
tional Education, November, pp. 1 19-139. 

My Principles of Home Management. Erna Weidenbach, Independent, Novem- 
ber 14, pp. 1116-1118. A resume of 15 years' experience. 

Women Workers: Improvements in Textile Trades. James Haslam, English- 
woman, November, pp 142-152. 

Infant Consultations. Eric Prichard, American Practitioner. Editorial, Med, 
Rec, November 16, p. 900. 

The Trend of Medico-Social Effort in Child Welfare Work. Wilbur C. Phillips, 
Am. Jour. Pub. Health, November, pp. 875-883. 

A Clinical View of the Special Diet. Horace D. Arnold, Jour. Am. Med. Assn., 
November 9, pp. 1668-1671. A plea for the dietitian. 

The Servant Problem. Survey, October 26, 191 2, p. 98. 

Custodians of Our Skyscrapers. Survey, October 26, 191 2, p. 92. 

Octavia Hill. Survey, November 9, 1912, p. 195. 



76 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

Points of Contact between the Health OiEcer and the Social Worker. Homer 
Folks, Am. Jour. Pub. Health, November, pp. 776-782. 

History of Women in Industry. Survey, October 19, 191 2, p. 76. 

Specialization in the Woolen and Worsted Industry. L. H. D. Weld, Quarterly 
Jour. Economics, November, 1912, pp. 67-94. 

Report of Missouri Homemakers Conference Association, 1911. Missouri Bd. 
Agr. Mo. Bui., 9, no. 2, pp. 94, figs. 29, 1911. Among the papers presented the 
following may be noted: Some Recent Advances in Infant Feeding, by Louise 
Stanley; The Curing of Ham, by Mrs. W. C. Hutchinson; Inconveniences of the 
Farm Home, by Mrs. W. T. Flournoy; Textile Adulteration, by Miss C. Tidd; 
The Quality and Cost of a Cut of Beef, by P. F. Trowbridge; Some of the Prob- 
lems of the Rural School, by Mrs. M. T. Harvey, and Home Economics in Rural 
Schools, by R. H. Emberson. 

Farm Home Problems. Proc. Internat. Cong. Farm Women, i, pp. 64, 191 1. 
Including Food Values and Conservation of Energy (in the Home), by Mary P. 
Van Zile; Home Labor-Saving Devices, by Mrs. J. A. Widstoe, and the Appli- 
cation of Science to the Housekeeper's Daily Problems, by Ellen A. Huntington. 

Housekeeping and Homemaking in the Canal Zone. Miss J. M. Seattle, Nat. 
Food Mag., 33, no. 2, pp. 125-131, figs. 9, 1912. Information regarding the food 
supply, housing conditions, bread making, and other similar topics. 

The Place and Purpose of Family Life. Alice Ravenhill, Prov. Brit. Columbia 
Dept. Agr. Bui. 35, pp. 24, figs. 19, 191 1. Designed for use in women's institute 
work. 

Home Economics and Research. 'E^xtondX, Expt. Sta. Record, 27, no. i, pp. i-6, 
1Q12. 

5. Economics. 

What One Man has Done to Lower the Cost of Living. Eloise Roorbach, Crafts- 
man, November 191 2, pp. 131-140. 

A Comparative Study of Railway Wages and Cost of Living in the United States, 
the United Kingdom, and the Principal Countries of Continental Europe. Bureau 
of Railway Economics, Bulletin 34, p. 77, 191 2. 

Tokio, Berlin, and the Cost of Living. Survey, October 26, 191 2, p. 90. 

Is the Cost of Living Really Increasing? W. F. Dix, Independent, October 31, 
pp. 1007-1009. 

Is the High Cost of Living Going Higher? Irving Fisher, North American 
Review, p. 740, vol. 196, no. 6, December 191 2. 

Cooperation and Cost of Living in Certain Foreign Countries. U. S. House of 
Representatives, 62 Cong. 2 Session, Doc. 617, pp. 248. Data collated by U. S. 
Consuls. 

Embattled Housewives. Mary Dudderidge, Independent, November 28, pp. 
1 230-1 234. The N. Y. Housewives League. 

Pay Rolls and Profits. Survey, November 9, 1912, p. 174. 

False Food Standards and the High Cost of Living. Editorial, Jour. Am. Med. 
Assn., December 7, pp. 2072-2073. 

The Place of Motion Study in Scientific Management. F. B. Gilbreth, Appl. 
Set., n. ser., 5, no. 5, pp. 177-187, dgms. 2, 1912. 



1913] Bibliography of Current Literature 77 

Hospital Expenditure. Brit Med. Jour., no. 2696, pp. 513, 514, 1912. Report 
of expenditures of 107 London hospitals; average cost per person for provisions 
was 85 qJ a week for 191 1, as against ic5 6(f for the preceding year. 

6. Miscellaneous. 

The Dyeing of Half Silks. Am. Silk Jour., November, p. 60. 

The Hand Loom and Some of Its Uses (Warping and Rug Weaving). Katherine 
G. Sanders, School Arts, November, pp. 190-195. 

The Branching Habits of Egyptian Cotton. A. McLachlan, V. S. Depi 0/ Agr., 
Bull. 24g, Bur. Plant Ind. 

A Lesson in Darning Filet Net, Illustrated with Original Craftsman Designs. 
Craftsman, December, p. 356-359. 

Domestic Rugs. Berwyn Converse. Photographs by T. C. Turner. American 
Homes and Gardens, December, pp. 435-437. 

Technical Information for Alert Buyers. Am. Silk Jour., November, p. 41. 
How to recognize various fabrics — simple tests, illustrated. 

Gas and Electric Cooking. Jour. Gas Lighting, vol. 118, no. 2551, pp. 17, 18, 
191 2. Account of tests made in England. 

A Gas Cooker of Novel Construction. Jour. Gas Lighting, vol. 117, no. 2550, 
pp. 870-871, 1912. 

Lighting Farm Houses. Ex. Sta. Record, Ixxii. Compiled from III. Sta. Circ. 
121; Iowa State Bid. gj; Minn, Sta. Bui. 126; Mo. Engineering Expt. Sta. Bui. i; 
Pa. Sta. Bui. 103. 

The Growth of Children. Franz Boas, Science, December 13, pp. 815-818. 

Choice and Care of Utensils. Ida S. Harrington, Cornell Reading Courses, vol. 
ii, no. 27, November i, 191 2. 

Dr. Carrel and the Span of Life. Survey, November 9, 191 2, p. 170. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE. 

The Home Nurse's Handbook of Practical Nursing. By Charlotte A. Aitkens. 

W. B. Saunders and Company, Philadelphia, Pa. $1.50. 

Everyone will agree that every woman and every girl ought to be better pre- 
pared to care for the health of the family and to meet the emergencies that threaten 
health and life as intelligently and as skillfully as possible. It will also be admitted 
that under present economic conditions it is impossible for many families to em- 
ploy a trained nurse for every case of illness, and so often we must make some 
provision for an untrained attendant who can give a cheaper service. There are 
many things that can be undertaken by such unskilled workers with comparative 
safety; the hygienic care of the sick room, devices for making the patient comfort- 
able, personal cleanliness of the patient, nourishing food, etc. These general 
practical measures the author outlines clearly and for the most part quite ade- 
quately in the earlier part of the book. But when sHe begins to touch upon the 
nursing of such extremely serious conditions as are found in pneumonia, tjphoid 
fever, diphtheria, and scarlet fever, she gets on rather dangerous ground. The 
best physicians admit that in these diseases especially, expert nursing care is of 
greater importance to the patient than medical treatment. Surely, it is not 
assumed that with this smattering of rules and directions, any woman is going to 
feel herself competent to undertake such highly responsible work? 

Many of the illustrations in the text show a girl of between fourteen and sixteen 
years, by her appearance, dressed up as a nurse, performing with supreme assur- 
ance medical and surgical treatments that no good nursing school would allow its 
pupils to undertake without months of preliminary training and the most careful 
supervision. Such treatments as rectal feeding, hot and cold packs, tj-phoid spong- 
ing, catheterization, etc., may do very serious injury to a patient if they are not 
given skilhully and intelligently. They are here disposed of in a few lines, with 
the assurance in the preface that all this work can be easily grasped by the average 
girl or woman who is able to master sixth or seventh grade school work. Surely 
it is not intended that the two chapters on maternity nursing will be given to high 
school girls, as seems to be indicated in the preface. The chapters on the care of 
babies, on emergencies, and the hints on invalid cookery, are practical and helpful, 
though by no means complete. One wonders why there is not more attention given 
to the nursing care of such slight disorders as colds and sore throats, and the chronic 
conditions such as rheumatism and paralysis, instead of the more serious and acute 
disorders which, even in the poorest families, can be cared for much better in hos- 
pitals or through district nursing associations. 

The pretensions of the unskilled attendant and the amateur home-helper, cannot 
fail to be strengthened by the whole tone of this book. What wonder that hundreds 
of women, after such a pitifully meagre training (so-called) announce themselves 
publicly as "nurses," when every page proclaims them such and even the illustra- 
tions skillfully carry out the suggestion. Surely, " A little knowledge is a dangerous 
thing 1" 

78 



1913] Books and Literature 79 

Personal Hygiene and Physical Training for Women. By Anna M. Gal- 
braith. 191 1. W. B. Saunders and Company, Philadelphia, Pa. $2. 
This book, written especially for college girls by a woman physician, is likely 
to be very widely used in high schools and women's colleges. The facts presented 
seem to be thoroughly scientific and rehable, and the tone of the book is wholesome 
and sensible throughout. Subjects such as the hygiene of the toilet, care of the hair, 
hygiene of women's dress, etc., are given more space than in most general books on 
hygiene. The illustrations are very good, especially in the section on physical 
training. 

Text-Book of Hygiene For Teachers. By Dr. R. A. Lyster. London: W. B. 

Clive, University Tutorial Press, Ltd. 191 2. 4s 6d. Reviewed in Nature 

(London) 89. No. 2233. 1912. 

The three parts into which the book is divided are The School, The Scholar, 
and The Medical Supervnsiop of School Life. 

According to the review, the volume deals with the subject "in a practical, 
common-sense manner on a physiological basis. There are chapters on elementary 
physiology, so that readers without previous physiological training may appre- 
ciate the reasons for the hygienic conditions demanded. The important subject 
of ventilation is well treated, the standard demanded high, but not impossible. 
In the chapter on foods and digestion it is a rehef to note that food testing has 
not been included, as is so often done in books on hygiene with unsatisfactory 
results. In this chapter, however, fats are wrongly described as hydrocarbons, 
and ptyalin is said to convert starch into grape sugar instead of malt sugar. The 
book is readable, and may be recommended to teachers and others as a practical 
and useful text-book." 

The Science of Hygiene. A text-book of laboratory practice for public health 
students. By Walter C. C. Pakes. New edition, revised by Dr. A. T. Nan— 
kivell. Methuen and Company, Ltd., London. 191 2. 5s net. Reviewed in 
Nature (London), 89 No. 2233. 191 2. 

As the sub-title states, this volume is designed as a text-book of laboratory 
practice for pubhc health students. 

■ In its present form the book consists of the chemical and microscopical sections 
of the 1900 edition, revised and extended. 

According to the review, "It is intended for public health students, and deals 
with the analysis of water, foods, beverages, soil, air, and disinfectants, with chap- 
ters on microscopy and meat inspection. The directions are clear and concise, 
and adapted for the examination for the diploma. The reactions are shortly 

explained, and examples of calculation given In spite of a few 

. errors and omissions of some modem processes, the book may be 
recommended as a useful laboratory companion for pubhc health students." 

The Business of Being a Woman. By Ida M. Tarbell. Macmillan Company. 

$1.25- 

Some of the chapters now collected under this title appeared during the past 
year in the American Magazine, where they found attentive readers, for Miss 



8o The Journal of Home Economics [February 

Tarbell's style is always clear and forceful, her subject-matter of vital interest. 
In her study of social questions she shows a rare combination of strong feeling and 
conviction with a liberal and broad-minded inquiry into facts. 

There is a chapter on clothes and one on the house service question but most of 
the book is taken up with what Miss Tarbell considers the main "business" of a 
woman, that is her relation to the home and to children. In order to fit herself 
for her high function woman has rightly struggled for higher education and varied 
training "to make her intellectually a companion worthy of a child" "to form the 
character of the future citizen of the Republic." But too often the end of this 
preparation has been lost sight of, the beauty and joy of free individual life have 
dulled the sense of national obligation." 

Duty, in all its old and its new forms, especially duty to form the proper social 
and spiritual conditions for the young is the watchword of this book. 

A strong chapter is The Childless Woman, where is set forth her obligation 
toward the children and young people of her neighborhood and the blessing to her 
own life from fulfilling that obligation. To the woman of fifty or sixty, often 
empty handed, this is a great opportunity to lead a life full of helpfulness and joy. 

Miss Tarbell puts great weight on the woman's function as the consumer, the 
spender of the income, and yet the young wife may not "know a debit from a 
credit, has to learn how to make out a check correctly and has no conscience about 
the fundamental matter of living within the allowance set aside for family ex- 
penses." "Whenever a woman does master this economic side of her business 
she establishes the most effective school for teaching thrift, quality, management, 
selection." Such scientific household management is the rarest kind of a training 
school. "Every home is perforce a good or a bad educational center. It does 
its work in spite of every effort to shirk or supplement it." The day when women 
realize their duty as buyers will see the death blow dealt to "sweated" industries, 
food adulteration, and extortion in many forms. 

She makes a strong plea for the study of social history by women. "The past 
is a wise teacher. There is none that can stir the heart more deeply or give to 
human affairs such dignity and significance. The meaning of woman's natural 
business in the world — the part it has played in civilizing humanity, in forcing 
good morals and good manners, in giving a reason and so a desire for peaceful 
arts and industries, the place it has had in persuading men and women that only 
self-restraint, courage, good cheer and reverence produce the highest types of 
manhood and womanhood — this is written on every page of history." 

In short, the whole purpose of the book is to dignify the home-making profes- 
sion, home being "one of the unescapable facts of nature and society — unescapable 
because the child demands it," to show that "the endless details of her life have 
a reason, as routine and discipline have for a soldier." "As a social institution 
nothing so far devised by man approaches the home in its opportunity nor equals 
it in its successes." It is a profession in which to use the best gifts and the high- 
est training. 

Making Both Ends Meet. By Sue Ainslie Clark and Edith Wyatt of the Con- 
sumers League. The Macmillan Company, New York. $1.50. 
A book which tells the actual experiences of New York working girls living away 

from home, and their struggles to make both ends meet. A fact emphasized 



1913] Books and Literature 81 

throughout is that there are over six million women gainfully employed in this 
country. 

Special chapters are given to income and outlay of saleswomen, the shirtwaist- 
makers' strike, the cloak-makers' strike and the fight for the preferential union 
shop, unskilled and seasonal factor^' work, monotony and fatigue in speeding — this 
includes mechanical and skilled handwork — the laundry workers, and scientific 
management. The particular hardships of each trade are pointed out and where 
possible suggestions for lessening these hardships are given, scientific manage- 
ment and unions are spoken of as the two great remedies which, in the future, will 
relieve the horrible conditions under which these slaves of industry are struggling. 

The book is well written, states the facts clearly and from an unprejudiced view- 
point, making it interesting and instructive reading for the average reader interested 
in the struggles of the less fortunate, as well as for the social worker, who will find 
it of value. 

The Coming Generation. By William Byron Forbush. D. Appleton and 

Compan\'. Si. 50. 

A book so charming in its style, so full of first-hand observation of youth, so 
thoughtful, and so suggestive rarely comes to hand. Even its chapter headings 
whet the appetite, Some Adventures Among Savages, The Young Pretender, 
How a Child does His Thinking, Books and Firelight and Children's Faces, The 
Gang, The Rehgious Life of a Child, The Wander Years, The Modern Home, The 
Art of Being a Godparent. 

Eugenics, Health, and Vocational Training and College have their due place 
and attention — -together with the problems of Dependent and Neglected Children; 
Reformatory Methods; The Juvenile Court; Regulation of Child Labor, and lastly, 
Betterment through Religions, Social Nurture and Service. 

The introduction strikes no uncertain note; the author considers that "behind 

all the forces for betterment stand certain national problems Some 

of these are: 

"No nation yet has been able to stand prosperity; the future of America depends 
upon the ability of the men of today to help the men of tomorrow to use wisely 
and with self-control resources, instruments of power and means ot luxury such as 
no other people has known. 

"No people has hitherto solved the problem of bringing up children successfully 
in great cities. We who are becoming in our conditions everywhere an urban 
people have that problem upon us. 

"No religion or school of morals has so far succeeded in adequately educating 
the youth of its race in morals. But this is a thing that must be accomplished. 

"No social or moral progress can be made without preserving the home in 
integrity, sanctity, and power. Never was the home in greater danger. 

"No civilization has yet understood how to bring to the surface its submerged 
portion, to bring up to ranks its backward section and to gather up the fragments 
of its human waste. This matter as it applies to adults and children alike we have 
set ourselves to face." 

Each chapter is followed by references to books on child study and kindred topics, 
and at the end of the book is a list of bibliographies which should prove very 
helpful to the student. 



82 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

The Family House. By C. F. Osborne. Penn Publishing Company, Philadel- 
phia. $1. 
This popular treatise on house building discusses location, sunshine and view, 

planning and building, heating and ventilation, plumbing, the house and the garden, 

timely repairs, and similar questions. 

Plumbing and Household Sanitation. By J. P. Putnam. Doubleday, Page 

and Company, Garden City, N. Y. $3.75. 

Historical data, theories which have to do with the general subject of plumbing, 
and practical and theoretical plumbing problems are discussed in this volume, which 
represents a course of lectures deUvered before the Plumbing School of the North 
End Union, Boston. 

Hot Water for Domestic Use. Edited by J. K. Allen. Domestic Engi- 
neering, Chicago. $0.50. 

In this volume designed to give information regarding supplying and heating 
water for domestic purposes, such difierent systems of water heating are described, 
and information is given on such topics as range boiler connections, use of check and 
safety valves, incrustation of water backs, and deposits of mud in water backs and 
boilers. 

House Sanitation. By Marion Talbot. Whitcomb and Darrows, Boston, $0.80. 

This is the practically rewritten book which under the title Home Sanitation 
was issued by Mrs. Richards and Miss Talbot some twenty-five years ago and has 
been ever since a standard. During this time many sanitary theories have radi- 
cally changed and such a rewriting was necessary in order to bring the book up 
to date. The questions appended to each chapter call attention to important 
points and emphasize them. 

A good bibliography and index are furnished. 

Fresh Air and How to Use It. By Thomas Spees Carrington, M.D., 105 East 

22d Street, New York. $1. 

Although this little volume is published by the National Association for the 
Study and Prevention of Tuberculosis, it seems to be mainly addressed to the 
well who wish to remain well or to become stronger. As one opens the book one 
is struck with the wealth of illustration devoted to the one subject of out-of-door 
air — how to get it by day and night. Open air bungalows and cottages, houses 
with open air apartments; roof play-grounds, tents and tent houses, sleeping porches 
with methods of protecting and screening them are all treated at length, and espe- 
cially full is the treatment of roof bungalows, window tents and "wall houses" 
with exact directions for construction. Those who remember the sensation created 
by Dr. Knopf's window tent exhibited at the first Congress for study of tubercu- 
losis can hardly credit the great advance in knowledge that has since been made 
along these lines. Open air sleeping has been made not only feasible but easy of 
attainment for people living in even the most restricted quarters. There is also 
a chapter on clothing, bedding, and furniture for out-of-door sleeping. 



1913] Books and Literature 83 

A Manual of Shoemaking. By W. H. Dooley. Little, Brown and Company, 

Boston, 1912. $1.50. 

This book, which is designed si>ecially to meet the needs of students in trade 
schools and of those engaged in the shoe industry, will doubtless find many readers 
among that class in the community which is as wide as the community itself — the 
wearers of shoes. Some fault may reasonably be found with the arrangement. 
The History of Footwear, for example, would seem to be a more fitting subject 
for the first than for the last chapter. In general, however, the subject matter 
is clearly presented in readable form and the book is attractively illustrated. The 
interest of the lay reader will doubtless center upon the portions of the book which 
deal with the anatomy of the foot, hygienic footwear, and with the less technical 
details of shoe manufacture. There will be an added claim upon the attention 
of students of home economics because of the fact that the making of shoes was 
so recently a home industry. Agassiz, watching the traveling cobbler in his 
father's home, is said to have acquired a skill in shoemaking which lasted through- 
out his life. Young people of today, barred from similar opportunities, are depend- 
ent upon such books as this and upon the intelligent observation of the factor>' 
processes, which the book will do much to illumine. It is a matter of regret 
that the author has introduced into the last chapter an imqualified commendation 
of the royalty system by which shoe machinery is leased, without at the same time, 
pointing out the dangers connected with it under monopolistic conditions in the 
trade. The author, who is the principal of the Lowell Industrial School, prepared 
the volume as a text-book for the proposed shoe school of the city of L>Tm, Mass. 
and in general for the use of industrial, trade, and commercial schools. 

Francis W. Parker School Year Book. By the faculty of the Francis W. 

Parker School, Chicago. Vol. i, pp. 140. Price 35 cents. Press of the Francis 

W. Parker School, 330 Webster Avenue, Chicago, 1912. 

The faculty of the Francis W. Parker School, Chicago, has undertaken to 
publish, annually, a volume entitled The Francis W. Parker School Year Book, con- 
sisting of a series of concrete, illustrated reports of work actually done in the school 
along new and experimental work in education. 

Being unhampered by the traditions that beset the average school and free to 
experiment in any way with the content of the course of study and methods of 
organization and teaching, the school is endeavoring to carry out certain modern 
fundamental principles and aims in education — principles and aims advanced 
especially by Colonel Francis W. Parker, one of the pioneers in the modem 
educational movements in this country. 

The school proposes to share with the general educational public the benefits of 
its experimentation through the Year Book. Each volume will be devoted to some 
one phase of education as actually worked out in the school. 

Volume I is devoted to the social motive in school work, and consists of a number 
of reports dealing with phases of handwork, music, dramatics, etc., in which the 
social motive predominates. The reports are plentifully illustrated. 

Experimental Domestic Science. By R. H. Jones, London, 191 2. Reviewed 
in Nature (London), 89. No. 2233. 1912. 
This volume, which the author states is intended primarily for domestic science 



84 The Jaurnal of Home Economics [February 

schools and girls' schools generally, offers a suggested course based upon the belief 
that science can be taught by means of the study of cooking processes and that 
principles can often be made clear "by drawing upon everyday experience, and 
largely by the aid of kitchen utensils and commodities." 

There are chapters on elementary physics and chemistry and popular fallacies 
as well as on the principal processes of cookery. 

According to the review of this volume cited, there are a number of inaccuracies 
in the text. "The aim is admirable, and much of the book is excellent, but in 
attempting simplicity experiments are described and results stated that will tend 
to perpetuate just the tj'pes of error and inaccuracy that are already too prevalent. 
In a book written for students who have little or no training in sci- 
ence, accuracy and caution in interpreting results are most important. However, 
the book contains many good suggestions for this kind of work." 

Food Values — Practical Tables for Use in Private Practice and Public 
Institutions. By E. A. Locke. D. Appleton and Company. New York and 
London. $1.25. 

The author has briefly discussed foods and their uses and similar topics and has 
presented a large amount of data in tabular form, including the equivalents of 
weights and measures used in connection with foods and dietetics, the composition 
of prepared and cooked foods, alcoholic beverages, and the average composition of 
American foods in general. The preface states "information has been drawn largely 
from the numerous reports of investigations made vmder the direction of the United 
States Department of Agriculture." The book is provided with an index. 

BOOKS RECEIVED. 

The Milk Question. By M. J. Rosenau. Houghton Mifflin Company, Boston. 
$2. 

The Child's Day, By Woods Hutchinson. Book I — the Woods Hutchinson 
Health Series. Houghton Mifflin Company, Boston. $0.40. 

A Montessori Mother. By Dorothy Canfield Fisher. Henry Holt and Com- 
pany, New York. $1.25. 

Making A Business Woman. By Anne Shannon Monroe. Henry Holt and 
Company, New York. $1.30. 

Why Women are So. By Mary Roberts Coolidge. Henry Holt and Company, 
New York. $1.50. 

Color Harmony in Dress. By G. A. Audsley. McBride, Nast and Co., New 
York. $0.75. 

Household Textiles. By Charlotte M. Gibbs. ^V^litcomb and Barrows, Boston. 
$1.25. 

Dressmaking Self Taught. By Edith Marie Carens. Carens College of Dress- 
making, Jacksonville. $1. 

The Cutter's Guide. By M. E. Roberts. Angus and Robertson, Ltd., Sydney, 
Australia. 7/6. 

L'Annee Pedagogique. Published by L. Cell6rier and L. Dugas. Libraire Felix 
Alcan, Paris. 7 francs 50. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD. 

The Second International Congress for the Teaching of Household Economy, 
already announced in the Journal to be held in Ghent, Belgium, June 15-17, 1913, 
is in connection with the Tenth International Congress of Agricul- 
International ture (June 8-13) and the Third International Congress of Women 
Congress for Farmers' Associations (June 13-15). A special trip for the Con- 
the Teaching gress of Agriculture and for an agricultural tour through Europe 
of Household has been arranged. A similar tour for the study of home eco- 
Economy. monies can be arranged if there is a demand for it. For particu- 

lars address the Bureau of University Travel, Trinity Place, Boston, 
Mass. 

The annual convention of the Ontario Women's Institutes was held in Toronto, 
November 13, 14, and 15, 1912. These institutes have had a remarkable growth 
^ . . not only in numbers but in the amount of work accomplished. 

, This institute now numbers 20,800 members from the province of 

, .. Ontario. Among the papers presented the following were of much 

interest: The Physical Development of the Child, The Mental 
Development of the Child, The Hired Man, Work of the Training Courses, Women 
and Business Methods, Model School Houses and Gardens, Laws Relating to 
Women and Children, Contagious Diseases, and Labor Saving Devices. An exhibit 
of pictures of the conditions under which neglected and dependent children live 
and work was also given. Throughout the session much emphasis was placed on 
national child welfare work, the question of the segregation of the feeble-minded, 
and child labor. 

The American Civic Association held its eighth annual convention at the Hotel 
Belvedere, Baltimore, Md., from November 19 to 21, with the Women's Civic 
League, Municipal Art Society, Maryland State Federation of 
American Civic Women's Clubs, Medical and Chirurgicai Faculty, and the Mer- 
Association. chants' and Manufacturers' Associations, as hosts. This associ- 
ation is doing such valuable work to all communities that we quote 
in full from its program the objects of the association: "To make living conditions 
clean, healthful, attractive; to extend the making of public parks; to promote the 
opening of gardens and playgrounds for children and recreation centers for adults; 
to abate public nuisances — including objectionable signs, unnecessary poles, and 
wires, wasteful smoking factory chimneys, unnecessary noises; to exterminate the 
typhoid fly; to make the buildings and the surroundings of railway stations, schools 
and factories attractive; to protect existing trees and to encourage intelligent tree 
planting; to preserve great scenic wonders (such as Niagara Falls and the national 
parks) for the public and from commercial spoliation. " The topics for the various 
groups of papers were as follows: Parks — Trees — Children. Housefly Session — A 
Definite Advance in City Plaiming, including papers on The Human Side of City 

85 



86 The Journal oj Home Economics [February 

Planning, Creating a Neighborhood by Planning, Spending to Save in City Planning, 
and Teaching a City's Plan to Its Children; and a Symposium of Capital Cities. 

The Homemakers Exhibit and Conference, announced in the December issue of 
the Journal, was held in the First Regiment Armory, Chicago, November i8 to 

23. The object of the Exhibit and Conference, in addition to 
Homemakers' raising money for the School of Domestic Art and Science, is 
Exhibit and stated as follows in the invitations which were sent out; The desire 
Conference. to show a definite method of improving home making, by showing 

better housing materials such as enter into the construction and 
maintenance of the home: To promote health and reduce the cost of hving by 
showing more suitable foods and more economical and nutritious methods of pre- 
paring them; To secure greater efficiency in the home by the use of labor saving 
devices and time saving methods; To stimulate interest in more artistic dressing 
by showing honest fabrics, good fashions, millinery and costume designs, demon- 
strating the application of the principles of art and utiUty in women's costumes. 
Each day there were lectures on topics of interest to housekeepers as well as to 
others, among which were the following: What We May Hope to Gain from 
this Exhibit and Conference, Miss Mary S. Snow, Supervisor of Household Arts, 
Pubhc Schools of Chicago; Housing, Miss Sophonisba Breckinridge, University of 
Chicago; The Function of Color in Food, Dr. Albert S. Gray; Historic Costume 
in its Relation to Modern Dress, Miss Ruth Wilmot, Pratt Institute; Textiles, 
Miss NelHe Crooks, Milwaukee-Downer College; Market Inspection, Miss Theresa 
Norton, Woman's Municipal League, Boston; The Department of Agriculture 
Work for the Housewife, Dr. C. F. Langworthy, U. S. Department of Agriculture, 
Washington; Opportunity and Obligations of Home Economics, Miss Isabel Bevier, 
University of lUinois; One View of the Art of Right Living, Miss Helen Louise 
Johnson, Associate Editor of Harper's Bazar; Nostrums and Quackery, Dr. Cramp, 
Editorial StafiF of the Journal of the American Medical Association; First Aids to 
the Housewife, Miss Abby L. Marlatt, University of Wisconsin; Some Food Fan- 
cies and Follies, Dr. W. A. Evans. During the conference a meeting of the newly 
organized Housekeepers' Section of the American Home Economics Association was 
held, details of which will appear in a later issue of the Journal. 

This Association held a memorial meeting for Mrs. Richards on December 3 at 
the Garland School, Boston. Hon. John D. Long, former secretary of the navy 

and ex-governor of Massachusetts, spoke of his recollections of 
New England Mrs. Richards as a school girl, when he, just out of college, taught 
Home Eco- in Westford. He described her as an earnest, gentle girl, show- 
nomics Asso- ing no evidence of the great force and energy which later she 
ciatfon. displayed. Prof. W. T. Sedgwick, in his reminiscences of her 

later life, suggested that the germs of her independence and force 
of character lay dormant during the more conservative surroundings of her early 
years, to be developed in a wonderful degree by the stimulus of the very novel 
environment at Vassar. He paid high tribute to her scientific work. Later many 
personal memories were related by friends and former students. A portrait of 
Mrs. Richards was placed in the reception room surrounded by a garland of green 
and pansies. Mrs. Stannard, principal of the school and president of the New 



19 13] News from the Field 87 

England Association presided, and after the meeting the students served refresh- 
ments. 

The Association announces the following program for the winter months: No- 
vember 9 — Dr. F. B. Dyer, Superintendent of the Boston PubUc Schools, "The 
Relation between the Home and the School." December 3 — Ellen H. Richards 
Home Economics Day, held at 19 Garland Street, by in\-itation of the Garland 
School. Short addresses by Hon. John D. Long, Prof. \Vm. T. Sedgwick, and 
others. December 30 — Informal dinner in honor of Mrs. Mary Schenk Woolman, 
President of the W. E. and I. Union and sui>ervising head of the Domestic Science 
Department of Simmons College. December 31 — .\merican Home Economics 
Association, annual meeting. February — "The Sociological Aspects of Home Eco- 
nomics," at the Y. W. C. A. March — A meeting for Home Makers. April — A 
Home Economics Exhibit, May — Annual Meeting. Detailed notices of these 
meetings will be announced later. 

The Washington Home Economics Association has announced the following 
program for the season of 1912-13. December 3 — Ellen H. Richards Memorial 
Day. Series of talks: Textiles and fibers. February 3 — Source 
of supply of materials. Nature and prop>erties of materials. Prep- 
aration of materials for use. Adulteration and sophistication. 
. . Curious and unusual materials and fabrics. April 18 — Cost: (a) 

Actual cost; (6) Value to consumer. Renovation and protection. 
Purchase: (a) Intelligent selection; {b) Bargains; (c) Family needs. Series of talks 
concerning food materials. June 3 — Supply and demand. Labor, etc. Rents, etc. 
Risks, etc. Demands of Community, (a) Food value; {h) Purity; (c) Cleanliness; 
((f) Quality; (e) Inspection. Nearness to market. October 7 — Marketing and 
markets: Methods of purchase. Laws and regulations. Storage and market con- 
ditions. Provision and grocery stores. Reaction of intelligent purchase on supply. 
The Association is cooperating with the Clean City Committee of the District of 
Columbia in its work of "bringing about and maintaining a model condition of 
cleanhness in the District of Columbia." Miss Alice Faye Seller, president of the 
Washington Association, was elected delegate to the committee. 

One of the pleasantest social features of the State Teachers Association was a 
tea given by the Home Economics Club to the visiting domestic science and domes- 
tic art teachers. Over one hundred representatives of these de- 
Grand Rapids partments were present from different parts of the state. It is 
Home Eco- hoped that this is only a beginning of larger state gatherings. The 
nomic Club. program for the year includes an investigation of some of the 
newly equipped kitchens controlled by the various industrial con- 
cerns of the city; a study of the new filtration plant and a lecture by Dr. James 
Wiley. 

The University of Illinois reports a considerable increase in its attendance and 
the addition of three new members to its staff: Miss Maud Parsons, a graduate 

of the University of Illinois, comes from the residence hall for 
University of women at the University of Missouri to take charge of the lunch 
Illinois. room work and a part of the work in institutional management; 

Miss Grace Stevens is a graduate of the University of Illinois and 



88 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

has been teaching for two years in the Michigan Agricultural College at Lansing; 
and Miss Ruth Wheeler, who comes from two years' study with Dr. Chittenden 
and Dr. Mendel at New Haven, is in charge of the research work. 

The new building is to be ready for occupancy the second semester and will 
greatly increase the equipment of the department of home economics and enable 
it to offer work in institutional management in connection with the lunch room 
which is to be opened in February. 

Another new feature is an arrangement with the Burnham Hospital by which 
the nurses in training are taught invalid cookery in the department of home eco- 
nomics. Miss Stevens is in charge of this work. The Hospital reciprocates by 
giving certain privileges to students of this department who are interested in 
hospital work. 

An apartment and a room for lecture work and illustration in the home care 
of the sick are valuable additions to the department's equipment. 

The department has continued the new form of extension work undertaken last 
year, viz., movable schools, and the housekeepers' conference to be held for two 
weeks beginning January 13, followed by an extension course of six weeks in food 
and clothing. 

The work of this section of the high school conference consisted of a discussion 
of the syllabus. A new feature was suggestions for grade work in order that the 
work for the high schools might be put upon a more certain basis. The report 
showed that one hundred and eleven schools are teaching domestic science and art 
now compared with forty-two when Miss Pincomb began her work as high school 
visitor in domestic science in 1908. 

The New York State College of Agriculture at Cornell University for the winter 
of 191 2-13 offered a three months' course to women who desired to become more 
efficient housekeepers. It was the only non-professional course 
Cornell in home economics offered, and embraced lectures in the prepa- 

University. ration of foods, sanitation, household management, household dec- 
oration and furnishing, and sewing. The course opened November 
19, and before that date more than forty-five applications had been received. 

This university offers correspondence courses in almost every branch, including 
agriculture, engineering, history, home economics, political economy, political 
science, sociology, education, law, and music. The university also 
University of has a department of instruction by lectures, a department of 
Wisconsin. debating and public discussion, and a department of general infor- 
mation and welfare. Bulletins are published by each depart- 
ment and everything possible is done to encourage study, thought, and improve- 
ment. 

Goddard A friend of the school, Mrs. C. Bolster, has presented Goddard 

Seminary. Seminary, Barre, Vermont, with equipment for the new Depart- 

ment of Domestic Arts, representing a money value of $400. 



THE FIFTH ANNUAL MEETING-AMERICAN HOME 
ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION. 

Benjamin R. Andrews. 

Teachers College, Columbia University. 

The fifth annual meeting of the American Home Economics Associa- 
tion was held at Simmons College, Boston, December 30 and 31, 191 2, 
as the guest of the New England Home Economics Association. The 
meeting was attended largely by members of the Association living 
in New England and the East. The Executive Committee had 
already announced the annual meeting for 1913 to be held at Cornell 
University in June, in response to a wide-spread request for trans- 
ferring the annual meeting from the ^^^nter to the summer. For 
this reason a one-day program only was arranged for Boston and the 
more extended program has been postponed until the Cornell meeting. 

The first day of the convention was devoted to committee meetings 
and to the convention dinner. On Monday morning the Executive 
Committee met at Simmons College for a session which extended 
throughout the day and which considered matters of vital importance 
in the development of the Association's work. Reports were presented 
to the Executive Committee with regard to the Association's finances, 
the Journal of Home Economics, the Memorial Fund, and in par- 
ticular, with regard to the organization of the office work of the Asso- 
ciation. A beginning has already been made, as most of the readers of 
the Journal know, in the organization of a National Home Eco- 
nomics Office through the employment of a managing editor for the 
Journal who has devoted during the last six months full time to the 
work of the Journal and the Association. The problem placed before 
the Executive Committee was the more complete development of this 
Central Office. A review of the finances showed that the beginning 
made has more than justified itself in increased membership for the 
Association and an enlarged subscription list for the Journal. 

The state of finances at the end of the year indicated that it was 
possible to take another forward step by adding a second salaried 
worker at the central office who would devote full time to the work 

89 



QO The Journal of Home Economics [February 

of the Association particularly. Accordingly, the Executive Com- 
mittee voted, and the Association in its business meeting later ap- 
proved, the further development of the business ofl&ce so that it can 
take over the routine work of the secretary and treasurer of the Asso- 
ciation, and as well, continue the present services for the Association 
and the Journal. 

On Monday evening, the New England Association tendered a 
testimonial dinner to Mrs. Mary Schenck Woolman who comes to 
Boston, February i, to become the president of the Woman's Educa- 
tional and Industrial Union and advisory head of the Household 
Economics Department at Simmons College. This gathering brought 
together all of the delegates to the Convention besides many persons 
in Boston who are interested in the Home Economics movement 
and in the work of the institutions to which Mrs. Woolman is coming. 

The dinner thus had a double interest in that it was the annual 
gathering of the delegates to the convention as well as a testimonial 
to this leader in home economics work. After dinner had been 
served a number of informal addresses were made, all bearing upon 
the present situation in the home economics field and especially in 
the local institutions with which Mrs. Woolman is to be connected. 
Mrs. Margaret Stannard, of the Garland School, presided as toast- 
mistress and introduced Dr. Langworthy of the United States Depart- 
ment of Agriculture, who gave a tribute to Mrs. Woolman for her 
organization of the Manhattan Trade School for Girls in New York 
City, the first institution of its kind in America. He also spoke of 
the Syllabus of Home Economics now in press, which has been com- 
piled by a committee of the Association, and explained some of its 
interesting features, particularly with regard to domestic art subject 
matter. 

The second speaker was Dr. Andrews of Teachers College who 
brought to the gathering greetings from that institution and spoke 
of Mrs. Woolman 's service as a pioneer in developing Domestic Art 
as a subject of instruction. "To her," he said, "we owe all our sub- 
ject of textiles in the triune of food, clothing, and shelter, which forms 
the center of the home economics idea." 

The third speaker was Mrs. Abel, Editor of the Journal of Home 
Economics She spoke particularly of the need of a publication fund 
which would make available the wealth of scientific material in the 
field of home economics that is gradually being forgotten. She 
cited the New England Kitchen, the Household Aid Company, and 



1913] Fifth Annual Meeting of the Association 91 

the laundry experiments in Baltimore as instances of social experi- 
ments for the improvement of the household, the results of which 
ought to be made available in permanent printed form. 

Dr. David Snedden, Commissioner of Education for the state of 
Massachusetts, spoke next and emphasized the idea of efificiency in 
education and urged that, while the home economics movement 
up to the present has had partly the character of a humanitarian and 
uplift movement, in the future there would be need of more specialized 
work upon the detailed problems of home and social life. 

The chairman presented as the succeeding speakers Dean Sarah 
Louise Arnold, who extended a welcome to Mrs. Woolman on behalf 
of the Woman's Educational and Industrial Union, and President 
Le Favour of Simmons College who spoke on behalf of the College. 
They pointed out the contribution which the Union and the College 
were making in this unique effort to combine theory and practice in 
the higher training of young women for vocations. Mrs. Woolman 
was the last speaker and spoke most interestingly. The solution of 
maladjustment in woman's work and wages, she said, will be found 
in training women to be more efficient workers, that they may be 
worth more in the market, and such training must include not only 
theory but practice; the new proposal in the Simmons-Union coopera- 
tion is that there shall be provided shops, mercantile establishments, 
restaurants, and other practice fields under educational control as are 
the model class rooms attached to a normal school or university 
school of education. 

On Tuesday morning, the Association met at Simmons College 
for the program which consisted of three papers on economic and social 
aspects of home economics. Dr. Susan M. Kingsbury of Simmons 
College, and Director of Research for the Woman's Union, spoke first 
on "Research Related to Household Economics," outlining some of 
the general problems, such as legislation, administration, and values, 
in household economy, which are proper subjects of investigation, and 
which once determined by establishing the facts involved will make 
possible a better living in home and institution. Dr. Kingsbury 
cited some of the concrete problems upon which her students have 
been engaged: A study of legislation and municipal regulations for 
the control of bakeries, an investigation as to values in the canned 
goods upon the market, and a study of costs of living under various 
types of administration. The second paper, by Mrs. Eva White of 
Elizabeth Peabody House, Boston, on "Household Economics and 



92 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

Social Service," was a remarkable presentation of the fundamental 
relation of the home to all other social institutions and to all manners 
and morals. Based as it was on experiences in betterment efforts 
persistently directed at the indi\adual family until improvement came, 
and then an improvement which irradiated through the whole life, 
the paper made perhaps the most profound impression of the whole 
convention. The third paper, by Dr. Andrews, outlined the courses 
in household economics given in Teachers College, and together 
with Dr. Kingsbury's paper, made plain that there is in applied 
economics a field of instruction of first importance for our higher 
curricula in Household Economics. 

The morning session adjourned to the Dormitory of Simmons Col- 
lege where the delegates were entertained at a delightful luncheon 
as the guests of the College. Miss Morse of the Simmons College 
Corporation was present to assist in welcoming the Association. At 
the conclusion of the luncheon, the business session of the Association 
was held and the reports of officers and committees were submitted. 

While the ofl&cial minutes are printed elsewhere, one must at least 
mention here certain items of business: The report from the significant 
Graduate School of Home Economics which held its biennial session 
last summer at Lansing; the reports from the two Sections of the 
Association, the Administration Section, meeting for the third session 
at Lake Placid in June, and the Housekeepers Section which cooper- 
ated in the Domestic Science Exhibit and Congress at Chicago in 
November; the encouraging word from the Editorial Board, that the 
future of the Journal seems secure if the devoted support of volun- 
tary workers will continue ; the report from the Executive Committee 
that a Central National Ofiice for the Association and Journal will 
now be begun on a modest scale, but with plans that promise great 
things for the home-betterment movement; the recommendation of a 
budget system o" expenses from the Finance Committee with a sched- 
ule for 1913 of allowances for committee work, sectional organiza- 
tions, meetings, the Bulletin, and the new Central Of&ce; the plans 
for the great national meeting of the Association at Cornell Univer- 
sity, Ithaca, N. Y., June 21-27; the hopeful view of the Richards 
Memorial Fund which is making steady progress, and in connection 
with which Home Economics Day will be observed December 3, 1913, 
in schools, colleges, and clubs; the gratifying financial situation 
revealed in the Treasurer's report; the progress reported by the com- 
mittees on legislation, publicity, revision of constitution, the Interna- 
tional Home Economics Congress in Ghent — all these and many other 



1913] Minutes of the Fifth Annual Meeting 93 

facts brought out were e\ndences enough of a great national movement 
at work through various agencies, all aiming at the improvement of 
living conditions in home, institution, and community. 

When the business was completed, Mrs. Abel, at the chairman's 
request, spoke in conclusion, gathering up some of the main thoughts 
of the convention, and leaving ''words of courage" with the delegates 
as the meeting adjourned. 

MINUTES OF FIFTH ANNUAL MEETING. AMERICAN 
HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION. 

The fifth annual business meeting of the .\merican Home Economics Association 
was held December 31, 1912, at Simmons College, Boston. In the absence of the 
President, Miss Bevier, the first vice-president, Dr. Langworthy, presided. 

The Chairman announced the appointment of the fo' lowing committees: On 
Resolutions, Miss .\nna Barrows, Miss Vita Franklin and Miss Adelaide M. 
Abell; On Audit, Mr. Frank WTaitcomb and Miss Alice R. Griswold. 

Secretary's Report. — The report of the Secretary of the .Association was pre- 
sented by Mr. .\ndrews as follows: 

The fourth year of the .American Home Economics Association has been marked 
with progress. Time has tested the home economics idea, and it has shown its 
inherent power. The spirit of the leader who has gone has very evidently become a 
part of the life of the organization, and the work for social welfare which started in 
the woman's division of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and that in 
quite an unofficial way, is now finding support in a thousand institutions through- 
out the land. The celebration of the seventieth anniversary of the birth of Ellen 
Swallow Richards on December 3, which took place in colleges, normal schools, 
public schools, and in women's organizations in every state and throughout Canada, 
demonstrated that the art of right living which she espoused is moving forward 
now in its own strength. 

The Journal of Home Economics: July i, 191 2, marked an advanced position 
for the Journal in securing the full time services of an assistant to the editor. 
A central office for the Association and the Journal, referred to below, has in effect 
been established through this step. As always the Journal has depended upon 
the voluntary service of its editor and contributors, and this must continue. 

Quarterly Bulletin: The Association established in November, 191 2, through the 
action of its Executive Committee, the quarterly Bulletin to be sent to all members 
of the Association, and to contain notices of meetings, reports of proceedings, and 
other official communications. The new quarterly Bulletin is at once a sign of 
membership and an objective return to those who have paid dues. These dues 
alone make possible the Association, the organization upon which the Journal 
depends, the series of annual meetings, the chain of affiliated societies reaching 
from one end of the country to the other, the graduate school of Home Economics, 
and all the other act vities which the Association maintains. 

Meetings: The Association cooperated with the Manual Arts Section of the 
National Educational Association in its program at Chicago in July, 191 2. In 



94 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

June, the Administration Section held its meeting at the Lake Placid Club. The 
annual meeting of 1912 was held at Boston, December 30 and 31. The annual 
meeting for 1913 will be held June 21-27, at Cornell University, Ithaca, N. Y. 

Office of the Secretary: When the Association was organized, four years ago, the 
duties of secretary and treasurer were combined in a single office. The Secretary 
also edited the first two numbers of the Journal of Home Economics, so that in a 
sense all of the business of the Association was for a time centered in the hands of a 
single voluntary officer. Experience soon showed that there must be a division of 
responsibility. Arrangements were made for that permanent editorial control of 
the Journal of Home EcoNOincs, which, beginning in the year 1909, has con- 
tinued to the present, and resulted in its remarkable development. One year ago, 
the offices of secretary and treasurer were separated and two voluntary officers have 
since filled these positions. For three years one of the large items of business con- 
nected with the Secretary's office, namely, the maintenance of the membership 
lists and the collection of dues, has been carried on in connection with the Journal 
OF Home Economics. There remains, however, a large amount of work connected 
with the planning for meetings, correspondence in connection with committees, 
inquiries on the part of women's clubs, educational institutions and private indi- 
viduals, which altogether make up a burden of responsibihty with its accompanying 
opportunity for service, that demand more of time and attention than a voluntary 
officer whose working hours are otherwise occupied can well afford to give. The 
Association needs to adjust these demands for service. There is needed a better 
apportionment in the delegation of committee work, so that a greater number of 
the members of the Association may bear the various parts of the work. Relief 
can thus be afforded the position of secretary. 

There is another consideration, however, which the members of the Association 
should have in mind. The time will soon be at hand, if indeed, it is not here already, 
when the Association should organize a national office with a paid staff who shall 
devote themselves to that sort of nation-wide service which a voluntary Associa- 
tion such as ours can give. One has but to look about at similar organizations: 
the National Housing Association, the National Child Labor Committee, the Labor 
Legislation Association, the Playground Association, and many others, each with 
its well defined field of service in which a staff of specialists is furnishing leadership 
from a central office. Something like this is needed in the Home Economics field, 
at least through the next period in the development of the movement, until our 
national government shall, through the Department of Agriculture, the Bureau of 
Education, or some other department, furnish this national directing agency, and 
even then, perhaps, the need for the voluntary central agency will still continue. 
Certain it is that our Home Economics Association might, through a salaried general 
secretary, develop a central bureau of information, which would be of vital service to 
school, household, and institution. A real beginning of such a central office has been 
made during the past six months in securing the full-time services of an assistant to 
the Editor, who has represented not only the Journal of Home Economics, but 
also the Association itself. We must build further on this foundation and not rest 
content until there shall be in active service an efficient staff at a central national 
office. Those parts of the Association's work which can be reduced to routine 
should be transferred to one central office, as the information service, the affiliated 
relationships with local societies and women's clubs, and the development of a 



1913] Minutes of the Fifth Annual Meeting 95 

lecture service. There will still remain ample field for our best voluntary 
service. 

The present Secretary- has watched the development of the Association during 
the past four years with the greatest interest. In retiring from the office he wishes 
to express his appreciation of the cooperation unfailingly extended to him by mem- 
bers of the Association. 

Report from Executive Committee. — The Secretary presented a summary of the 
action taken by the Executive Committee (as presented elsewhere in its minutes) 
as regards (i) a Central Office for the Association and Journal; (2) the meetings 
of the Association for 19 13; and (3) the tentative budget for 1913; and, on 
motion, the meeting voted its approval of the action. 

Report of Editorial Board. — -The report of the Jourxal Board for 1912, was 
presented by the Editor, Mrs. Abel. 

As the material condition of a pubUcation is judged by its subscription list, so 
we begin the annual report of our Editorial Board wath our material condition. 
While the Journal of Home Economics has not made a phenomenal growth dur- 
ing the past year, yet the increase has been steady, and the outlook is most encour- 
aging. The mailing list now numbers 1800 in round numbers, over 300 of these 
being new subscribers enrolled in the past five months. A new system has recently 
been introduced which makes these figures mean more than the former method of 
computing subscribers. After several notices to the effect that the subscription 
had expired, and due notice that the magazine would be discontinued, those who 
have not paid have been cut off, so the subscription list is now almost entirely paid- 
up subscribers. It is planned during the coming year to make a great effort to secure 
new subscribers. With this in view a letter asking for names of those who might 
be interested was sent out with all bills for 1913. Although this was done only ten 
days ago, already many names have been sent in, and the prospects are that by our 
next annual meeting we shall have passed far beyond the 2000 mark. 

The JocuNAL has been published five times during 1912, making a volume of 521 
pages, including the index. An effort has been made to make each number of inter- 
est to all subscribers and for this reason it was deemed best not to publish any 
special numbers as has been done heretofore. There is an increasing demand for 
articles of interest to the housekeeper and when this department which is already 
in process of formation, is more advanced, we feel that we shall have much of 
interest to offer the persons interested in household management. There is also 
a steady demand for articles on the teaching of home economics in the grade and 
high schools and so far this demand has not been met. With an increasing sub- 
scription list many thing become possible which hitherto have been out of the ques- 
tion: so that the plans for the coming year are bigger and broader than ever before. 
With this in mind we urge every one to bring the Journal to the notice of any one 
interested in home economics, from all of its various aspects. 

In November, 238 circular letters making a special offer to students in schools 
and colleges, of the four numbers, December, February, April, and June, for $1 
were sent out. Although late in the school year, already nearly one hundred stu- 
dent subscriptions have been sent in, and beginning with the school year of 1913 an 
effort will be made to manj' times increase this number. 

The Journal sent an exhibit of material, including a bound volume, reprints, 



96 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

circulars, and other material to the Homemakers Exhibit and Conference in 
Chicago, in November, and although the returns have not been great, the display 
undoubtedly brought before the public the fact that such a magazine as the Journal 
OF Home Economics is pubhshed, and the indirect returns may be very great. 
This exhibit is available for the use of schools and colleges and affiliated Associa- 
tions. 

In the spring of 191 2 a change was made in the Editorial Board, and in place of 
the eight associate editors, an editorial board composed of three members. Dr. 
Andrews, Dr. Langworthy, and Miss Lord, with the officers and members of the 
Council as collaborators, was chosen. In June a managing editor was appointed 
to devote full time to the Jouiinal and Association, who, now with an office assist- 
ant, has complete charge of the office work of the Joxjtinal, and also does much of 
the work of the Association. 

Recently nearly 5000 circulars advertising the work of the Association and of the 
Journal have been sent out, and these circulars of a size to insert in letters will 
gladly be furnished all who will use them. It is also planned in the near future to 
make a thorough canvass of all public libraries, and of school and college libraries 
where home economics is taught. 

So much for the work of the Editorial Board during the past year. As to the 
future too much cannot be said of the need of cooperation from all those who are 
interested in the growth of the Association and Journal. We shall always be 
dependent upon the contributions of our friends for material for the Journal. In 
order to maintain the high standard that we have set ourselves we must urge a 
feeling of greater responsibility upon our members to supply us with the kind of 
material that we need. 

The appreciation of the Association for the voluntary services of the Editor and 
the Editorial Board was appropriately voiced by Miss Arnold; and on motion, it 
was voted to ask Mrs. Abel to serve as Chairman of the Journal Board for 1913, 
with power to appoint additional members, and to make whatever arrangements 
are necessary for the proper conduct of the Journal, the quarterly Bulletin, and 
other publications of the Association. 

Administration Section. — Miss Arnold reported briefly regarding the meeting of 
the Administration Section at Lake Placid in June, 191 2, and stated that the 
Section would meet at Cornell in June, 1913, at which time all interested in 
household and institution economics, or in education and training in adminis- 
tration, are invited to be present. Details can be secured later from the secretary 
of the Section, Miss Van Rensselaer of Cornell University. 

Homemakers Section.— The chairman gave a brief statement of the activity of 
the Committee on Homemakers Section, of which Mrs. Lynden Evans is chairman, 
in cooperating in the Domestic Science Exhibit and Congress in Chicago in Novem- 
ber, 191 2. The committee on the Section is asked by the Executive Committee to 
take as one of its special problems the development of the National Home Eco- 
nomics Bureau of Information in connection with the Journal- Association Office; 
and to provide a housekeepers' program for the convention at Cornell in June, 1913. 
All interested are asked to communicate with Mrs. Evans, 1240 Astor St., 
Chicago. 



1913] Minutes of the Fifth Annual Meeting 97 

Graduate School of Home Economics. — Miss Lake, Managing Editor of the Jour- 
nal OF Home Economics, who attended the Graduate School of Home Economics 
at Michigan State College, Lansing, in July, 191 2, spoke briefly of the School. 
The chairman said that one of the problems was the desirability of securing college 
credit for the courses; and the suggestion was made that the Graduate School might 
meet in turn with various university summer schools, as Chicago, California, 
Columbia, and Peabody Teachers College at Nashville. The suggestion was referred 
to the Committee with a request that its feasibility be considered and reported upon. 

Committee on Constitution and By-Laws. — The Conamittee reported progress. 
Miss Talbot, by request, spoke of the problem of formal organization for such a 
voluntary society as ours. On motion it was voted to ask the Executive Committee 
to continue the Committee on Constitution and By-Laws, and to make any neces- 
sary provision so that it might complete its study of the problem by the next meet- 
ing of the Association. 

Textiles Committee. — Progress was reported, and the Committee was asked to 
continue its work. Professor Mendel's suggestion that a hygienic and ph\^siologic 
study of textiles be made, and Mrs. Dewey's request for a study of rational costume 
and reasonable control of fashions for women, were referred to the Committee with 
a request for a report. 

Committee on Syllabus of Home Economics. — The chairman reported that the 
Syllabus of Home Economics is completed and in press. Suggestions are desired of 
more detailed outlines of its sections for a later edition; and especially of bibli- 
ographies to accompany each section. On motion, the Committee was continued 
and asked to prepare such bibliographies for printing. 

Committee on Research in Household Economics. — The Chairman reported Dr. 
Kingsbury's suggestion that a committee be appointed on research in household 
economics, and on motion it was voted to ask Miss Kingsbury to act as chairman of 
such a committee, with power to add other members, and the Executive Committee 
was asked to provide a sum for the Committee's expenses. 

Committee en International Congress at Ghent. — The Committee appointed by the 
Association, of which Miss Isabel Ely Lord is chairman, reported that the second 
International Congress on Domestic Economy, is to be held in Ghent, Belgium, 
June 15-17, 1913. "The Committee assures any Americans who can attend the 
Congress of a hearty welcome and an interesting meeting. The Bureau of Uni- 
versity Travel, Boston, is arranging for a special party, and can give information 
as to costs. The meeting is in conjunction with the loth International Congress 
of Agriculture (June 8-13) and the 3d International Congress of Women Farmers 
(June 13-15). The Ghent Exhibition will also be in progress. The Committee 
hopes that many Americans interested in home economics will be able to attend the 
Congress." The report of the Committee was adopted and the Committee con- 
tinued. 

Committee on Publicity reported through its chairman, Mr. Maurice Le Bosquet, 
as follows, and the report was adopted: 



98 The Journal oj Home Economics [February 

This Committee was appointed in June 191 2 to give suggestions for increasing 
the membership of the Association and to increase the subscription list of the 
Journal. Shortly afterwards and later, the following suggestions were made to the 
managing editor of the Joxjrnal. 

First, it seemed necessary to provide something beyond the privilege of voting 
for the $1.00 which the members of the Association pay; second, to increase the 
membership to any great extent it seemed desirable to offer more of direct interest 
to housekeepers. With this end in view, we advised (i) developement of the 
Central Bureau of Information and Advice to Housekeepers as outlined in an editor- 
ial in the Journal; (2) development of Loan Library scheme, to apply especially to 
all books, pamphlets, etc., reviewed in the Journal; (3) to make a special department 
for home-makers in the Journal; (4) perhaps to do something for club work in home 
economics; (5) to publish a quarterly Bulletin oj the American Home Economics 
Association, which should in no way compete with the Journal but be used for 
notices, special articles of interest, and particularly for promoting the Association. 
This would be the least expensive method of giving the Association and Journal 
publicity, for a quarterly Bulletin could be entered under second class mailing 
privileges. In regard to the Journal it was suggested that an endeavor be made to 
exchange free advertising space with a number of journals. Suggestions were made 
for sending strong letters and follow-up letters to all former subscribers of the 
Journal, schools, public libraries and especially to all members of the Association 
asking their cooperation. 

A number of the suggestions given have been carried out — the first number of the 
Bulletin has been sent to all members, though the promotion number is still to come. 
A good many letters and circulars have been sent out and the subscription list of the 
Journal is increasing. Very little has been done towards interesting the home- 
makers. This is a difficult undertaking at best; but it seems that the Journal 
might be somewhat less technical without being less scientific. 

The report was adopted. 

Committee on Legislation. — The Committee reported through its Chairman, Mr. 
Andrews, that it had been following the legislation now pending in Congress which 
proposes grants to home economics education: (i) The Page- Wilson bill which would 
give aid to secondary, normal, college, and extension education in agriculture, 
mechanic arts, and home economics — an omnibus bill for vocational education; 
(2) the Lever-Smith bill which would aid extension teaching in agriculture and 
home economics solely; (3) the Smoot bill which would give aid to research work 
in home economics in the Agricultural Experimental Stations; (4) the Wilson bill 
for establishing a bureau of domestic science in the United States Department of 
Agriculture. The attitude of the Committee has been favorable to the support of 
all these bills, rather than of any one of them exclusively. At the hearing of the 
Page- Wilson bill the Committee submitted a statement and in advance of the hear- 
ing sent a post-card notice to members of the Association, asking them to write 
their representatives and senators. The present situation in Congress indicates 
that favorable action is likely soon upon either the Lever bill or the more inclusive 
Page-Wilson bill. Tiie Smoot bill for research and the Wilson bill for the Domestic 
Science bureau will not be pressed, apparently, for the present. Members are 
urged to secure copies of all bills and to write their representatives. The Committee 



1913] Minnies of the Fifth Annual Meeting 99 

urges further that, on Home Economics Day, December 3, 1913, the matter of 
proposed federal legislation be considered in schools, colleges, and clubs, and resolu- 
tions adopted and petitions signed. The request of the United States Bureau of 
Education for an additional appropriation providing for a home economics expert 
on its staff ako merits active support on our part. 

The report was accepted and the Conmiittee continued. 

Treasurer's report: 

I. ASSOCIATION ACCOUNT. 

Receipts $959 . 80 

Expenditures: 

Repayment of loan $195 . 72 

Conventions 248 . 60 

Secretary's ofBce 258.67 

Treasurer's office 98 . 26 

Committees 146 . 84 $948 . 09 

Balance on hand $11.71 

2. JOURNAL ACCOUNT. 

Receipts: 

Balance from 191 1 $641 .60 

Repayment of .\ssociation loan 195 . 72 

Subscriptions 3316.80 

Reprints, etc 322 .09 

Advertising 360 . 00 $4836 . 2 1 

Expenditures: 

Journal printing $2354.61 

Editor's Office 228.81 

Treasurer's office 560. 12 

Managing editor's office 878 .02 

Advertising director 25 .00 

Journal committee 105 . 01 

Miscellaneous printing 124.55 

Refunds 4.80 $4280.92 

Journal balance on hand $555 29 

3. ADitlNISTRATION SECTION ACCOUNT. 

1911 balance $29.90; expenditures $29.90 No balance 

4. PERMANENT ASSOCIATION FUNT) ACCOUNT. 

1911 balance $150; no expenditures Balance $150 

Committee on Audit. — This Committee was asked to complete its report and 
transmit it to the Executive Committee. [ DEPARTMENT 
_ I w 

, ^^' 

BOUSMiOLD SCIENCE 



loo The Journal of Home Economics [February 

Ellen H. Richards Memorial Fund. — Mr. Andrews, acting chairman of the 
Committee reported as follows and the report was adopted and the Committee 
continued : 

In June, 191 1, a meeting of friends of Mrs. Richards held at Boston resulted in 
a plan to raise a national fund of $100,000 as the Ellen H. Richards Home Economics 
Fund, and the appointment by the Association of the following Fund Committee: 
Mrs. WilUam H. Barrett, chairman. Dr. C. F. Langworthy, Miss Isabel Hyams, 
Miss Ednah A. Rich, Dr. Benjamin R. Andrews. The chairman of the Committee 
began the canvass by compiUng a list of 130,000 names to be solicited personally for 
the imiform sum of $1.00. State chairmen were secured who started the canvass in 
Massachusetts, New York, Illinois, Utah, and Texas during 191 1 and the first half 
of 191 2, and plans had been made in certain other states. Experience with the list 
suggested that since the list was necessarily made up of pubUshed lists of sci- 
entific societies, and similar changing lists, it was in many cases unreliable, or that 
the method of personal canvass was uncertain. 

Up to September 20, 191 2, there had been turned in by collectors $668.72; 
(in addition, of the amounts since transmitted to the Committee a large share, 
perhaps one-half of that received to date, is due to the canvass based on the 
original hst). The expenses of the canvass to September 20, 191 2, incurred for the 
list and printed matter for soUcitors, was $359.82; leaving a net balance on Sep- 
tember 20, 191 2, of $309.00. At a meeting of the Conimittee on that date it was 
decided, temporarily at least, to abandon the use of the list, and to initiate a rapid 
canvass of the members of the Association, and of schools, colleges, and clubs 
interested in home economics. Subscriptions were to be sought in any sum, 
rather than the uniform amount of $1.00; each person canvassed was asked to 
become himself a canvasser, or at least to suggest names of persons who might 
contribute; a plan was drafted for observing December 3, 191 2, the seventieth anni- 
versary of Mrs. Richards' birth, as Home Economics Day in schools, colleges, and 
clubs; and a Richards Home Economics Calendar was projected to be sold for the 
benefit of the Fund. At Mrs. Barrett's request, Mr. Andrews undertook the acting- 
chairmanship of the Conamittee, with authority to secure clerical assistance. 

The acting-chairman prepared a circular asking subscriptions for the Fund , and also 
a program for observing Home Economics Day. Five papers were printed to aid the 
observance: two sketches of Mrs. Richards' life, ore by Miss Caroline Hunt, and one 
by Miss Frances Stem, and three sketches, of Xenophon's Oeconomicus, of Count 
Rumford, and Catherine Beecher, respectively, by Dr. Andrews. The Fund cir- 
cular was sent to members of the Association and subscribers to the Journal, and 
the Fund circular with the Home Economics Day program and in part, the accom- 
panying papers, to 100 colleges, 130 normal schools, 700 high schools, 300 superin- 
tendents of schools, and 1000 women's clubs. The Richards Calendar was edited 
by Miss Hyams, and its cost guaranteed by fifteen members of the Association. 
During November the canvass had the full-time services, and in December part- 
time services, of Mrs. Bertha Fletcher Lent, a graduate of Teachers College, who 
did much to make this necessarily rapid canvass a success. From September 20 to 
December 20, 1912, there has been received $995.60 and expenditures of $372.64 
have been incurred. Toward the latter, the Executive Committee of the Association 
granted $50.00; leaving net receipts from September 20 to December 20, 191 2, of 



1913] Minutes of the Fifth Annual Meeting loi 

$672.96. This with the net balance September 20 of $309.00, makes the total bal- 
ance on hand December 20, 191 2, $981.96. In addition upwards of $250.00 is 
reported in the hands of collectors; making a net total for the Fund up to December 
20 of approximately $1 250.00. It is important to remember that in such a canvass 
as this, every effort is cumulative — the canvass of 191 1 as well as the recent three 
months' effort would long continue to show results, if nothing further were to be 
done. It is more important to realize that the canvass is succeeding and that com- 
plete success is possible if all will unite in a vigorous prosecution of it. 

In view of these facts, therefore, the Richards Fund Committee recommends the 
following measures, in order that the Association may practically dedicate itself to 
the establishment of this Uving memorial of our leader, and that the canvass may be 
continued to a successful culmination : 

(i) That a person be employed at the Association office, who is especially quali- 
fied to carry forward the canvass. 

(2) That a more complete statement of the practical usefulness of such a Fund 
for Publication and Research be drawn up, to be published as an Association Bulle- 
tin and circulated widely under second-class postage entry. 

(3) That pubUcations under the imprint of the Richards Home Economics Fund 
be issued at the earliest possible date, thus furnishing a demonstration of the use- 
fulness of such a fund. 

(4) That all Association members be urged to refer to the Fund in public lectures 
(several members already regularly do so) ; and to secure press reports on the Fund 
and Home Economics Day (one member recently secured a half-page illustrated 
article in the New York Times, and another articles in several New Orleans papers) . 

(s) That schools and colleges form Richards Home Economics Clubs of their 
students, who may thus interest themselves in the Fund; that the alumni of such 
institutions be reached by alumni committees. 

(6) That each member of the Association take personal interest in the canvass; 
canvassing personally, organizing methods of raising money locally, and sending 
names to the Committee. 

(7) That affihated local societies be asked to make the Fund canvass a chief 
item on their program for 1913 appointing a special committee of officers, and mak- 
ing plans for raising funds by entertainments, etc.; undertaking the canvass for 
states and cities as far as possible. 

(8) That ways of raising funds by sales, entertainments, lectures, exhibits of the 
history of home economics, pageants, etc., be devised, and published. 

(9) That a Home Economics Day program for 1913 be drawn up early in the 
year by a special committee and published in the Association Bulletin. 

(10) That there be considered the seeking of large subscriptions from public- 
spirited people of wealth; individual members of the Association may find persons 
willing to give Sioo, S500, Siooo, or more to this practical agency for the home. 

(11) That the interest of federated women's clubs be sought, especially in the 
observance of the Richards' Home Economics Day, December 3, 191 3; and that 
when the Decker Endowment Fund is secured, that local clubs having household 
economic departments be asked to raise contributions to the Richards Fund. 

The report was adopted and the committee continued. 

Commillee on Resolutions: The Committee presented, through its chairman, 
Miss Aima Barrows, the following report which, on motion, was adopted: 



I02 The Jotirnal of Home Economics [February 

Whereas, We, the members of the American Home Economics Association, 
have enjoyed the hospitahty extended by Simmons College at our fifth annual meet- 
ing, be it 

Resolved, That we express to this institution our hearty appreciation of its gener- 
ous entertainment in providing so comfortable a place of meeting and so attractive 
a luncheon; 

Resolved, That we give especial thanks to President Le Favour and Dean Arnold 
and their associates for making possible so profitable and enjoyable a session; 

Resolved, That we extend our thanks to Mrs. Stannard and Mrs. Hyde of the New 
England Association, who were chiefly instrumental in making the dinner on Wed- 
nesday evening in honor of Mrs. Woolman an occasion of unusual pleasure to the 
guests; 

Resolved, That we express our deep regret at the absence of our President, Miss 
Isabel Bevier, but we recognize that the call homeward was the right one for her 
to follow. We take this means of expressing to Miss Bevier our hearty apprecia- 
tion of the efficient way in which she has filled the position made doubly difficult 
by the passing of our first leader. 

Election of Officers. — The Election Committee reported the returns from the 
nominating ballots sent out by mail to members of the Association. Mrs. Wool- 
man and Dr. Langworthy, whose names were among those announced as receiving 
votes which placed them in the list of candidates for office, asked to have their 
names withdrawn. The request was acceded to. The following names were then 
presented, and on motion, by unanimous vote, the Secretary was authorized to 
cast the ballot of the Association for these officers who were declared elected: 

President, for 1913: Miss Sarah Louise Arnold, Simmons College, Boston. 

Vice-Presidents, for 1913: Miss Martha Van Rensselaer, Cornell University, 
Ithaca; Miss Abby L. Marlatt, University of Wisconsin; Benjamin R. Andrews, 
Teachers College, Columbia University. 

Secretary, for 1913: Miss Isabel Ely Lord, Pratt Institute. 

Treasurer, for 1913: Frederick B. Pratt, who was chosen treasurer by the 
annual meeting, was unable to accept the position; the Executive Committee 
have therefore filled the vacancy by electing Dr. Charles F. Langworthy, U. S. 
Department of Agriculture, treasurer for 1913. 

Members of the Council for five years beginning 1913: Miss Isabel Bevier, Univer- 
sity of Illinois; A. C. True, United States Department of Agriculture, Washington; 
Miss Agnes Harris, Florida State College, Tallahassee; Miss Lilla A. Harkins, 
Montana State College, Bozeman; Miss Bertha Terrill, University of Vermont, 
Burlington, Vermont. 

Member of Nominating Committee for five years, beginning 1913: Miss Anna 
Barrows, Teachers College, Columbia University. 

The business being concluded the chairman asked Mrs. Abel to address the 
convention. 

At the conclusion of Mrs. Abel's address, the convention was declared adjourned. 

Benjamin R. Andrews, 
Secretary, American Home Economics Association. 



MINUTES OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 

The Executive Committee of the American Home Economics Association met 
at Simmons College, Boston, December 30, 1912. A list of items of business 
had been sent in advance to members. Several members who could not be pres- 
ent sent WTritten opinions. The following matters were considered and agreed to: 

Office of the Association and American Home Economics Bureau. — The Journal 
Committee reported to the Executive Committee the employment of a managing 
editor, beginning July i, 191 2, who devotes full time to the work of the Journal 
and the Association; compensation of $75 per month from July i to December 
31, 191 2 was charged four-fifths to the Journal budget and one-fifth to the 
Association budget. The managing editor has thus practically maintained an 
office for the Association and the Journal at Forest Hill (near Baltimore), Mary- 
land; but the demands already upon the office are more than it can meet. For the 
Journal, the Managing Editor, under the direction of the Editor, prepares material 
for the printer, reads all proofs, prepares the make-up for the Journal, collects 
subscriptions, canvasses for subscriptions, receives money, and transfers it to the 
Treasurer for deposit and disbursement. For the Association, the Managing Editor 
keeps records of membership, collects dues and transfers them to the Treasurer for 
disbursement, canvasses for new members, edits the BuDetin of the Association, 
and carries on much routine correspondence. 

The Secretary of the Association reported upon the duties and services at pres- 
ent attaching to that office, including correspondence, enquiries, assistance ren- 
dered to committees, services in connection with arrangements for annual and 
other meetings, and other responsibilities involving at frequent intervals expendi- 
tures for clerical help. It was the opinion of the Committee that economy would 
be served by transferring the clerical and routine duties of the Secretary, and possi- 
bly some of those of the Treasurer, to a clerk or office secretary to be employed 
by the Association. 

A third consideration arose in the proposal to develop a national clearing house 
of information for housekeepers, which might serve as a model Housekeepers' 
Bureau. The Association is already rendering service of this kind, and once organ- 
ized, it might be an example for local organizations, public libraries, and other 
institutions in the establishment of Housekeepers' Bureaus. 

After full discussions it was voted to set aside $500 in the budget of the Asso- 
ciation for 1913, which by cooperation with the Journal budget, might provide 
the salary of an additional worker to be associated with the managing editor, who 
might as clerk or office secretary, be responsible for the current business of the Asso- 
ciation, including all current office duties of the elected Secretary of the Association, 
correspondence, enquiries, relations with affiliated societies, and committee under- 
takings which may be referred to such an official for execution; and who, while 
primarily serving the Association might develop such an American Home Economics 
Bureau. 

103 



I04 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

By vote the Journal Committee was directed to make necessary arrangements 
for securing such an additional worker and organizing a national ofi&ce of the 
Association and Journal and Home Economics Bureau. 

By vote, the Committee on Housekeepers' Section, Mrs. Lynden Evans, Chair- 
man, was asked to cooperate in making plans for the development of the Home 
Economics Bureau. 

By vote, it was resolved, that we call the attention of librarians to the desir- 
ability of establishing a Housekeepers' Room in every public library which shall 
provide collections of books, pamphlet material, government bulletins, reports of 
boards of health, and other publications bearing upon housekeeping problems, to 
be administered by a person trained in library science and in household science 
who shall thus develop a local Housekeepers' Bureau of information, ready to 
respond to calls in person, by letter, or by telephone; and it was resolved that a 
sub-committee be appointed to seek cooperation with the librarians' organizations 
in investigating the feasibility of this proposal, to report at the meeting at Cornell 
University in June, 1913. 

Memorial Fmtd Canvass. — The Ellen H. Richards Memorial Fund Committee 
reported progress, and asked for instructions regarding the expenses incurred in 
the canvass. The Executive Committee voted an appropriation of $50 from 191 2 
funds in the Association treasury and directed that the balance of expenditures 
to date, December 31, 1912, be met from the receipts of the canvass; and further 
voted that an appropriation be made in the Association budget for 1913 for ex- 
penses of the Fund Committee. It was voted to prosecute the canvass vigorously 
during 1913, and to arrange for the transfer of the canvass from the Secretary's 
oflBce to that of the office secretary to be created; and to provide for the observance 
of Home Economics Day, December 3, 1913, and on succeeding anniversaries. 

Financial Relations of Sections to Association. — The following minute was proposed: 
There is but one "Membership," that of the National Association, and sec- 
tions may not establish a separate membership fee; the Association shall make an 
annual grant in the budget for expenses of sections; if desired, sections may raise 
additional funds by subscriptions or contributions, supplementing the budget 
allowance — such sectional funds shall be deposited in the Association treasury and 
held as a distinct fund subject to draft on the order of the section. After discussion, 
action was postponed to the next meeting of the committee. 

Meetings. — i. The annual meeting of 1913 shall be held at Cornell University, 
June 21-27 (or dates to be determined), with a program providing adequately for 
general interests, and for those of the Administration Section and the Housekeepers' 
Section; the President shall appoint a special program committee for the general 
Association, and provide sub-committees from the two sections, with the Presi- 
dent ex-officio chairman of the Committee. This shall be the one national meeting 
of the Association for 1913, which the entire membership of the Association shall 
be urged to attend. 

2. The Association shall cooperate with the Manual Training Section of the 
National Education Association at Salt Lake City, Utah, July 7-14, and shall 
provide in addition at least one separate session under the auspices of the Ameri- 
can Home Economics Association; the cooperation of the Utah State Association 
shall be at once sought for this meeting, and a general officer of the Association, 
the President if possible, or such officer as the President shall appoint as substi- 



1913] Minutes of the Executive Committee 105 

tute, shall be delegated to attend this meeting. The President shall offer cooper- 
ation to the Manual Training Section, and appoint a program committee; the 
Utah Association shall be asked to care for local arrangements. 

3. The Association shall offer cooperation by contributing speakers, papers, or 
accredited delegates to the meetings of such related societies as the International 
School Hygiene Congress at Buffalo, 1913; wherever feasible it will organize local 
home economics meetings for one or more sessions in connection with related 
societies as the Economic, Sociological, and Science Associations, the Southern 
Education Congress, etc., thus bringing together Home Economics workers in dif- 
ferent sections of the countr>'; the President is empowered to place arrangements 
for such possible meetings in the hands of local Home Economics societies, or to 
appoint special committees as seems desirable. 

4. There shall be held a meeting of the Association at San Francisco during the 
Panama-Pacific Exposition of 1915. 

Budget. — The Finance Committee reported as follows and the report was adopted: 
I. That the following tentative budget of the Association's funds be made for 
1913, subject to revision by the Executive Committee: 

Receipts (estimated) from dues $1 100 . 00 

Proposed Expenditures: 

Meetings $200 . 00 

Bulletin of Home Economics 150.00 

Committees, including Syllabus, Legislation, 
Constitution, Textiles, Research in House- 
hold Economics, Richards Memorial Fund. . . 120.00 
Administration Section and Housekeepers' Sec- 
tion, each $40 80 . 00 

Central Office 500.00 

Office Expenses of President and Secretary 50 . 00 



Total S 



1100.00 



2. The expenditures of receipts from the Journal of Home Economics is dele- 
gated to the Committee of the Journ.a.l. 

Syllabus Committee. — The Syllabus Committee reported that the Syllabus of 
Home Economics was completed and ready for printing; that the next step should 
be a request for criticisms and suggestions after the syllabus is in printed form; 
and that the Committee should be continued and should next proceed to compile 
bibliographies to accompany each section of the Syllabus. The Executive Com- 
mittee adopted the report, and directed the Editorial Board of the Journ.^l to 
arrange for printing the Syllabus as a separate pamphlet in such form as it should 
deem best. 

Housekeepers' Section. — The organization of the Housekeepers' Section was dis- 
cussed, and it was voted to ask Mrs. Lynden Evans to continue as chairman of the 
committee to promote this section, and to associate with her on the committee 
representatives of related organizations. 

Related Organizations. — It was voted to request related organizations to be 



io6 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

represented by accredited delegates, without vote, at the meeting of the Council 
of the Association and at the annual business meeting of the Association. 

B. R. Andrews, 

Secretary. 
December 31, 191 2. 



MINUTES OF MEETING OF THE COUNCIL. 

The Council of the American Home Economics Association met at Simmons Col- 
lege, Boston, December 31, 191 2, at 3.30 p.m. There was reported to the Council 
the business transacted by the Executive Committee. Communications were read 
from members of the Council, who were unable to be present, as follows: 

Professor Mendel suggested that the hygienic and physiologic characteristics of 
clothing be made a subject of study by the Association. 

Miss Bevier advised that no real separation should be allowed to arise between 
the Association and the Journal, as regards finances; a better organization requires 
more emphasis upon the Executive Committee and Council — the Council should 
voice the opinions of a larger number; the Secretary's ofi&ce should be a permanent 
one, and the Secretary should be a traveling officer to encourage local societies; 
the Memorial Fund must be pushed — one step would be to get The Life of Ellen 
Richards in every public and school library, another to print early in the quarterly 
Bulletin a program for Home Economics Day, 1913; local societies should be asked 
to study some local problems and send reports on it to the Journal, and the Associa- 
tion should provide a central clearing house for such local associations. 

Miss Nutting urged the necessity of more thorough provision in the programs 
of meetings, in committee work, and in publications, for the non-teacher members 
of the Association; there are perhaps one hundred dietitians in New York City 
alone and they are not in any way now reached by the Association, although it 
was formed to aid institution workers as well as teachers; the financial lesources of 
the Association or of the Richards Fund could be increased by a $5.00 sustaining 
membership) — students in colleges could give a small aimual subscription, 25 cents 
perhaps, to the Fund; there should be a salaried Executive Secretary for the Associa- 
tion, and in time a Field Secretary; the Journal should be made a monthly at the 
earliest possible date — better a monthly than the present two infrequent publica- 
tions (quarterly Journal and quarterly Bulletin); housing is a topic which the 
Association should next stress — textiles as well as dietetics have had much atten- 
tion. 

Mrs. Dewey offered suggestions as follows: The financial relations of sections and 
the Association need to be more explicit; printed proceedings of sectional meetings 
should be published promptly as separate numbers; the Association might well 
consider at the Cornell meeting "Time Studies," and "Living Wages in Household 
Occupations;" in helping local associations with their programs, syllabuses might 
be useful; there is wide opportunity for a thoroughly trained woman of wide experi- 
ence who is a good speaker, in the employ of the Association as secretary — part of 
her expenses could be met by local associations; extra numbers of the Journal 
might well appear, instead of the distinct Bulletin; it is time to make a campaign 




,J^^LAN- 




— "FIR^T FLOOF^ PXAN 

Cornell University, Home Economics Building. 



(Sec page 107.) 




— 52,0.0 NT3 T'l.OO'R.-FLAN"— 








Cornell University, Home Economics Building. 



1 9 13] Minutes of the Executive Committee 107 

on the ethical aspects of dress, with a special effort to induce educated, thoughtful 
women to dress sensibly, and to seek concerted action through clubs; finances can 
be increased by establishing grades of membership, $5.00 associates, $10.00 patrons, 
etc., and inviting men as well as women to join. 

Miss Harris, of the Florida State College, wrote of the observance of Home 
Economics Day and urged that its observance be continued in the future; pressing 
problems in work there are: (i) the course of study, (2) where to place college stu- 
dents graduates who have had work in high school, (3) the content of short courses 
and (4) what to do for women's clubs. 

Miss Gearing of the University of Texas wrote of the recent organization of a 
State Home Economics Association in that State of which Miss Babb of the State 
College at Denton is secretary. 

These, and other suggestions arising in the meeting were, after discussion, referred 
to the Executive Committee for action. 

Benjamin R. Andrews, 
Secretary. 



CORNELL UNIVERSITY, HOME ECONOMICS BUILDING. 

We present in this issue the front elevation and ground plans of the new Home 
Economics Building at Cornell University. As we think these ground plans will 
be of more help and interest to those who are interested in Home Economics 
buildings than the pictures of the buildings alone, we hope to give more of these 
in the future. We quote from the Cornell University Circular: 

"In the basement of the building is a cafeteria that will seat four to five hundred 
persons. Here students who wish to specialize in problems of caring for large 
numbers will have practice in providing food in quantity. While the cafeteria 
will proNade a wholesome noonday lunch, it is intended to furnish a practical 
laboratory in institutional management. On the first floor are offices, classrooms, 
and a small living apartment. Each year senior students will have opportunity in 
turn to live in the apartment under the guidance of an instructor. The problem 
of the small household may thus be worked out in a practical way. On the second 
floor is a small audience room to be used for class work and for meetings relating 
to the work of women, particularly to that branch of the latter having to do with 
household economics. Food laboratories, offices, and a practice dining-room and 
kitchen are on this floor. On the third floor are laboratories for a study of cloth- 
ing, sewing, and millinery. On the fourth floor is a large drafting room for work 
in house planning, furnishing, and decorating, and in designing connected with 
sewing and millinery." 



INTERNATIONAL CONGRESS FOR THE TEACHING OF 
HOUSEHOLD ECONOMY. 

The following Committee on Second International Congress for the 
Teaching of Household Economy, June, 1913, has been appointed by 
the American Home Economics Association: Chairmen: Miss Isabel 
Ely Lord, Director of the School of Household Science and Arts, 
Pratt Institute, Brooklyn, Xew York; Mrs. Mary Hinman Abel, 
Editor Journal of HoiiE Economics, Roland Park Branch, Balti- 
more, Mar}iand; Dr. Charles F. Langworthy, of the L'nited States 
Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C; Miss Marion Talbot, 
Dean of Women, L'niversity of Chicago, Chicago, Eiinois; Miss Ellen 
Alden Huntington, Director of the School of Home Economics, 
Agricultural College, Logan, Utah. 



ADMINISTRATION SECTION.^ 

With the suggestion of small cooperative laundries for farmers' 
wives came the question as to the ad\-isability of combination of cream- 
ery and laundr>', and whether the same power might be utilized for 
both; also the question of emplo>'ing for the collection of laundr>- the 
same wagon that is used for dairy products. This latter point brought 
up the question of possible contamination. It was also suggested that 
a great need among the girls on the farm was that they should receive 
training in laimdry methods so that they might nm a laimdry in the 
country. These girls are eager to earn money but do not want to 
consider going out washing in the old way. Those offering courses 
in laundry management replied by saying that the demand for just 
such workers was very great; and that girls from the country' would 
find it to their advantage to enter this Une of work. It was strongly 
urged also that a movement be started to determine plans for the 
marking of linen; that standards be established; and that "hit or 
miss" marking be prohibited. 

1 From discussion at Administration Section, American Home Economics Associa- 
tion, Lake Placid, June, 1912. 

lo8 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Home, Institution, School 

EDITOR M.\NAGIXG EDITOR 

Mss. Mast H. Abel Mabgcebite B. Lake 

EDITORI.VL BOARD 

Besj. R. AvDBrws C. F. Lakcwobthy 

Isabel Ely Loko 

COLLABORATORS 
The 0£ceTs and Members of the Couac3 

Vol. V APRIL, 191; Xo. 2 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 

H. Sophie Xewcomb Memorial Collie Frontispiece 

Research related to hoii>ehold economics, Susan Kingsburj- 109 

A course in chemi?tr>' for household science students, J. F. Snell 117 

The home and sodal effidenc\-, Eva \V. White 122 

^^Management of children predisposed to nervousness, A Summary 130 

Spoiled children 136 

The new child labor movement, Wm. A. McKeever 137 

The introduction of Home Economics in a South Carolina rural school, Anna 

L. Leggett 139 

Length of bboratorj' period, B. R. Andrews 141 

Nutrition and dietetics from the standpoint of physiological chembtry, Judah 

Leon Jona 143 

H. Sophie Newcomb Memorial College 151 

School lunches at Basel, Switzerland, G. N. Trioche 152 

Collecc courses in gardening 153 

Rciritierators, Hermann T. Vulti 1 54 

What our forefathers cooked and ate in 1810. . . i'7 

Mrs. Richards as a corre^x>ndent 161 

Administration section 163 

Editorials 164 

Bibliography of Home Economics literature j68 

Books and literature 1 74 

Books received 184 

News from the field igt 



Associations . 



; 191 

American Home Economics .\ssociation, Cornell meeting ... 195 

The Joom&l of Honvf F.cr.rcmics -s f.uT.lihH five tinv-s d^rir.p the year, Felrui.-}-, .\;,rJ 
JoDe, October. DccemVx-r by the .Xni'-ntin Home EcoDomics .-\sKiditiori. 

$2.M A YEAR. FOREIGN" $2.25. SINGLE COPIES 5« CENTS. 

HOVT TO T;rA!!T R-mlHAnc« ibojld be sent by Draft on New York, Express Order, or 
Toftai N' ,e to the .\roerican Home Economics .Association. Currency, unless 

■Bailed r is at the sender s risk. 

CH '■. ' ; SS. N'otJce of ckanfre in address should be sent Two Weeks before 

the date « i»..^ o.-. »;.,..& the change is to Ukc effect. The change cannot be made unless the 
ttibtcriber's Old Address ii dearly indicated in addition to the New Address. 

AMERICAN" HOME ECONOMICS .ASSOCIATION 
RoLAXB Paek Bbas-cb. Baltimobe, Md. 

Entered as second dass matter at the Baltimore Post Office. 



THE 

Journal ^/Home Economics 

Vol. V. APRIL, 1913 No. 2 

RESEARCH RELATED TO HOUSEHOLD ECONOMICS.^ 
Susan M. Kingsbury. 

Several of the programs of the American Historical Association 
during the past week have been devoted to the question of profitable 
fields for research. Such subjects have been discussed at previous 
sessions of this Association but never, so far as I am aware, has a 
series of meetings been given up to that discussion. Certainly no 
field has at present more reach nor is more in need of investigation 
than the subject of household economics, both as applied to the sub- 
ject as a whole and as applied to any one of its phases. Therefore our 
subject. 

In the business world, so called, individuals are acquainted with the 
minute details of their business, and in countless numbers of business 
houses the actual cost and profit of every transaction is figured to 
many decimal places. While the question of economics of cost and 
profit is not worked out in the business world, as a whole, satisfactorily, 
and certainly not in our public institutions nor in our government, 
a start has been made through necessity by the individual business 
man or the corporation. But in the business of housekeeping, whether 
on a small or large scale, no system has been devised by which costs 
can be known or a comparison of costs can be made, and I venture 
to say, that in very few institutions do we know actual costs. 

Sometime ago through the senior seminar course in Simmons Col- 
lege we endeavored to find a satisfactory system of accounting for 
institutional housekeeping and to discover whether special systems 

* Presented at the annual meeting of the American Home Economics Association, 
Boston, 191 2. 

109 



no The Journal of Home Economics [April 

were being used in various state and private institutions. We were 
unsuccessful. For example, one institution was endeavoring to find 
out the cost of food in comparison with the cost of housing. As a 
result the class was enabled to study very carefully the statistics it 
had gathered and then work out the cost of rent, light, heat, service, 
and food, endeavoring to distinguish between the service for lodging 
and the service for the dining room. But these figures could be at 
best only approximate because of the way in which bills had been kept 
and because of the difiiculty of discovering a unit by which costs could 
be distributed. The difficulty in attaining these results and the neces- 
sary inaccuracy due to approximation is simply an illustration of the 
fact that we find no true economics of the household, that is, the knowl- 
edge of how to secure the best return for the least expenditure, because 
we find no system measuring return and no plan of recording expen- 
diture. 

These, then, are two of the large fields which an organization like 
the American Home Economics Association ought to enter, enabling 
the world at large to know what the measure of the return may be and 
what the system of expenditure should be. Such a program, worked 
at unremittingly for a series of years by individuals or graduate stu- 
dents or a committee of the Association , when presented would com- 
mand the respect of all economics associations. They would perceive 
at once that such constructive work could not be overlooked. 

There are, of course, minor fields which are clearly important for 
investigation, as, for instance, that field which deals with legisla- 
tion as affecting the status of the household. The laws existing and 
needed for the regulation of the production of foods ought to be 
presented more carefully, more clearly, more forcefully than they yet 
have been. As for example, the laws affecting production of canned 
goods, ice cream, confectionery, baked foods, ought to be classified 
and simplified both for the purpose of instruction to our students in 
household economics and for the purpose of reference for our house- 
wives. Then those laws needed for the regulation of the distribution 
of foods, as for example, of milk, of bread, of foods in shops, ought to 
be studied. And when all this is done, a body of knowledge should 
have been acquired from which to devise the best or most feasible laws 
and the right line of approach for each community. Then the ideal 
would be at hand. Standardization of the laws affecting the condi- 
tions under which our men, women, and children live is far more 
important than standardization of the laws affecting the conditions 



1913] Research Related to Household Economics iii 

under which our men, women, and children work. Just as our Labor 
Legislation Association has first stated carefully and presented to the 
public the actual laws existing and has then prepared a scheme for 
uniform legislation to be introduced into the various states of the 
Union, so this Association might well familiarize itself with existing 
laws affecting the production, distribution, and consumption of 
foods and as affecting the general conditions of living, and then edu- 
cate the public to demand the best of such laws. 

Before illustrating the methods by which a study of legislation might 
be carried on, we note that there are questions of administration which 
need investigation, administration as applied to the home, adminis- 
tration as applied to business, that is, as applied to the places where 
production, or distribution, or consumption of food is carried on for 
profit by an indix-idual or group of indi\'iduals, and administration as 
applied to the combination of home and business, namely, public and 
private institutions. Administration as appHed to indi\'iduals is also 
a field most important for study — indi\dduals in their private capacities 
as producers for the home and as consumers in the home. Adminis- 
tration as applied to any of these four groups should be worked out 
on the basis of the system of organization, studying the question of 
supervision, service, methods of buying and systems of accounting 
— of keeping a record of what is bought, when it is bought and where 
it is bought, and the grade of satisfaction. Such a system of account- 
ancy would then enable us to determine the efficiency of the institu- 
tion or of the individual in the business of living. One of our greatest 
needs of the present moment is some sort of an account book worked 
out and tested by institutions, as for instance, in our own dormitories. 
Although it may seem at the moment a large expense, the need is to 
discover whether such a system of accounting is a saving or not. To 
the individual an account book is often considered not worth the 
trouble of keeping, the return not equal to the effort. And he may 
be right. For the institution, I believe that the theorist from the 
department of economics or from the department of household arts 
cannot determine the question. It must be worked out in an institu- 
tion as a laboratory. 

With regard to values: it is hardly necessary to urge upon this 
group the necessity for fuller knowledge of values as applied to textiles 
or foods. Thousands of various opportunities flash to our minds. 
Values in silk, cotton, laces, fabrics, furnishings, prepared foods of 
all types, canned goods, baker's bread in comparison with home- 



112 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

made bread, baker's cake in comparison with home-made cake, cereals 
put up in packages as compared with cereals in bulk, and hundreds 
of others. These are questions we are all dabbling in, but the trouble 
is that we dabble. Such experiments as are being carried on by the 
government in various stations have returned large profits but the 
difficulty is that the investment is too small. We need to stimulate 
our students and our teachers and most of all our housewives (who 
must first be educated) to more careful record-keeping concerning 
all of these questions, and then it will be the business of this Associa- 
tion to interpret the returns. 

May I now call your attention to some beginnings of such studies 
which we have made in Simmons College but only as an example of 
how fruitful an investigation of this type may prove. We have a 
course entitled the Economics of Consumption. Our first question 
is, What does the state say with regard to the affairs of the household? 
So our starting point is the study of the relation of the household and 
the housekeeper to the law. We have, therefore, worked out in chart 
form the federal pure food law and the laws of the various states of 
the Union affecting the regulation of lunch rooms, bakeries, or any 
food establishment and the requirements as to preparation of dairy 
products, ice creams, meat products, canned goods, and in addition, 
the milk regulations in the state of Massachusetts and the town regula- 
tions as to milk in Boston, in towns of Worcester County and in several 
large cities of the United States. We have also charted the municipal 
regulations with regard to preparation and sale of ice cream in Atlanta, 
Cleveland, New York City, Salt Lake City, San Francisco, Seattle, 
and Boston, and eight other cities of Massachusetts. 

To illustrate: The charting of the federal law reveals three sub- 
divisions: 

(i) The definition of terms, such as food, drugs, adulteration, mis- 
branding, and guaranty. 

(2) The standards with regard to animal products, vegetable prod- 
ucts, preservatives and coloring matter. 

(3) The procedure under the act classified as to the agency for 
enforcement, methods of collection of samples, analysis, publication, 
procedure for accusation, and penalties. 

Again, the regulations with regard to waitresses in the city of Boston 
were secured from thirty establishments and the data tabulated in such 
a way as to reveal : hours of labor — beginning and ending, hours allowed 
for meals, total hours per day, per week; the maximum, minimum, 



1913I Research Related to Household Economics 113 

and approximate amount received in tips, allowance for meals and 
laundry, deduction for breakage, vacation, and absences, and provi- 
sions for seasonal fluctuation; absences: average number and the 
methods of filling vacancies; duties: side work and required responsi- 
bility for number of seats at the tables; training: the agency through 
which the help was secured^ the provisions with regard to recommen- 
dations, where skilled labor was obtained, the length of time for the 
employee to acquire skill, the attitude toward a training school, and 
the methods used for giving instruction; provisions for health and 
comfort; pro\'isions for carrying trays; provisions for stools and rest 
rooms; and requirements with regard to uniforms. 

A study worth continuing has been one with regard to the values of 
canned goods. In two successive years students have secured samples 
of canned vegetables, fruits, and meats in various sections of Boston 
and its suburbs and tests have then been made by the sampling 
process. The results compared both as to quality and as to cost have 
provided something like a white list. But more important, from the 
point of view of the student and the teacher, were the results which 
proved that price and value are not synonymous. For instance, the 
first choice in peas is found to cost 15 cents, the second 18 cents, while 
the maximum price charged is 18 to 25 cents and the usual 12 to 15 
cents. In corn the first choice costs 12 cents whereas the maximum 
price charged is 14 cents and usual price 12 cents. In tomatoes the 
best value coincided with the maximum, 14 cents, which is two cents 
more than the usual price. In beans the best choice costs 17 cents 
whereas the maximum price is 20 cents, the usual price 15 cents and 
the minimum price 8 cents. Results of such experiments could not 
be printed until a sufficient number of samples of each brand had 
been examined to ensure a feeling of security, neither could they be 
published until a large variety of brands had been tested. 

Without proceeding further with illustrations of the type of original 
work which needs to be done, and I may add which is possible to be 
done with seniors and graduate students, may I call your attention 
to a study from the point of view of the consumer which has been 
made, based upon the yearly expenditures of a group of the college 
girls. We must remember that we are concerned here with a 
selected group which is not to be compared with any other group of 
consumers, so far as I can see. A girl of college age and of the 
same circumstances as many college students, would probably be 
-working and therefore earning, whereas the girl not at work would 



114 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

have certain social responsibilities, and standards of expenditure 
would vary. 

However, as an example of the method of approach to the problem 
of consumption this study may prove of value. The actual results 
I am presenting in full as being perhaps useful to members of this 
association who are coming in contact with college women and espe- 
cially who may be interested in young women who are about to enter 
college. The study was made in four different years, 1907, 1908, 1909, 
and 191 2, and is based upon the returns of between 40-50 students 
each year who were able and willing to give exact information, most 
of the dormitory students having been approached. In most cases 
returns which were not sufl&ciently complete were excluded and yet 
the variation seems to be such as to warrant a belief that the returns 
were valid and typical. Since these studies were made at different 
times a difference in treatment crept in whereby the average expense 
was considered in the years 1Q08 and 1909 and the mode was taken in 
1907 and 191 2. Traveling expenses have been omitted altogether 
but, as far as possible, expenditure for clothes in the summer vacation 
preparatory to entering college was included. In 1908 and 1909 
one figure only was returned for minor expenses, including medical 
aid, amusements, eatables, carfares, church, telephone, Christmas, 
and incidentals. I do not believe it is of significance that the average 
return for 1907 is higher than for the other years. It will be noted that 
the students have taken the maximum figure for board as being the 
sum which the largest number paid. Since that time a larger number of 
rooms have become available in dormitories and boarding houses at 
the lower figure. Finally the lowest estimate as worked out by the 
students in two different years and corrected by the instructor is 
presented in order that no friend or parent may consider it safe to 
accept the minimum expense in planning to send a student to the col- 
lege. While it would certainly seem that a student should be able to 
carry her expenses at about $500, the total as indicated in the lowest 
estimate, yet this should be compared pretty closely with the average 
expense in order that the student may not find herself embarrassed 
for the necessities of college life. It should be noted also that these 
figures apply to the girl who is living in the dormitory or boarding,, 
and not to the girl who is living at home. 



I9I3] 



Research Related to Household Economics 



"5 



Expenses for college year. Based on average or on mode. 



1908 



Tuition 

Board 

Laboratory fees 

Books 

Dues 

Clothes 

Laundry 

Medical aid 

Amusements . . . 

Eatables 

Carfares 

Church 

Telephone 

Christmas 

Incidentals. . . . 

Totals 



Sioo.oo 

300.00 

10.00 

17.00 

1.50 

125.00 

30.00 

20.00 
7.00 

8.00 

7-50 

3 50 

1 .00 

15 00 

30.00J 



$102.65 
286.36 

16.93 
4.48 

91-37 
29.47 



$92.00 



44-39 



5106.59 
280.37 

17.41 

3.62 

106.98 

11.77 



41.82 



)IOO.OO 

260.00 

15.00 

15.00 

3.00 

110.00 

15.00 

7.00 

8.50 
8.00 

9.00 
2.00 

12.00 
10.00 



» $56.50 



S675.50 



IS57S-65 



$568.56 $574-50 



Expenses for college year. Based on maximum sum returned. 





1907 


1908 


1909 


1912 


Tuition 

Board 

Laboratory fees 


$100.00 

300.00 

20.00 

32.00 

9-85 

200.00 

28.00 

162.00 

27.00 

25.00 

28.50 


$114.00 
300 . 00 

50.00 

925 

225.00 

80.00 

35-00 

143-25 


$128.03 
300 . 00 

27.66 

8.50 

600 . 00 

30.00 

56.50 

266.00 


$100.00 

300.00 

16.00 


Books 

Dues 


30.00 
5.50 


Clothes 

Laundry 

^ledical aid 


220.48 

54.00 

5.00 


Amusements 

Eatables 

Carfares 

Church 


20.00 

24.00 

8.00 

3.00 


Telephone 

Christmas 


30.00 


Incidentals 


50.00 






Totals 


$932 -35 


$956-50 


$1416.69 


$865.98 



ii6 



The Journal of Home Economics 



[April 



Expenses for college year. Based on the minimum sum returned. 



1907 



1908 



1912 



Tuition 

Board 

Laboratory fees . 

Books 

Dues 

Clothes 

Laundry 

Medical aid 

Amusements 

Eatables 

Carfares 

Church 

Telephone 

Christmas 

Incidentals 



$100.00 

200.00 

5.00 

4.00 

•25 

48.90 
6.8s 
2.00 

■35 
1.46 
2.58 



pioo.oo 
200 . 00 

2.30 
.60 

14.00 
1.04 

•25 



"•54 



fioo.oo 
200.00 

5.00 

• 50 
5-03 

• 25 



15-70 



f 100. 00 
200.00 

8.00 

11.72 
1 .00 

50.00 

7.82 

• 50 

2.00 
6.00 
9.00 

1.36 

6. 14 



Totals. 



$371-39 



$329-73 



$403-54 



Expense for college year based on the study. 

Amusements $5 • 00 

Eatables 3 • 50 

Carfares 5 . 00 

Church 1 . 00 

Christmas 5 . 00 

Incidentals 25.00 



Tuition $100 . 00 

Board 200 . 00 

Laboratory fees 10 . 00 

Books 17.00 

Dues 1.00 

Clothes 90.00 

Laundry 25.00 

Medical aid 20 . 00 



Total 507 . 50 



Most extensive knowledge and keenest judgment are needed for an 
understanding of production in the home for profit rather than for 
consumption. Whatever attitude our states may take with regard 
to this great question, the effect will be of great importance not only 
to the home in its social aspect but to the home as an economic factor. 
Whether prohibition or regulation, restriction or encouragement is 
adopted as the policy generally conceded to be the wisest, the educa- 
tion of woman as a producer will be very largely affected and much of 
our future policy will be modified accordingly. These are but a few 
of the problems which experts in household economics are being called 
upon to answer. 



A COURSE IN CHEMISTRY FOR HOUSEHOLD SCIENCE 

STUDENTS. 1 

By J. F. Snell. 

Macdonald College, Ste. Anne de Bellevue, Quebec, Canada. 

The following outline of a course in elementary chemistry, spe- 
cially designed for students of household science, is taken from an 
address to the science department of the National Education Asso- 
ciation. The course has been given to five successive classes in 
Macdonald College. The students in these classes have been of 
college age (from seventeen years up) but of very unequal preliminary 
education. The course has therefore been made simple, and the 
writer hopes it may be found suitable for high school girls. The 
aim has been to introduce only such principles as find immediate 
application in connection with household work, but to present these 
principles in a correct and truly scientific manner. The expository 
matter of the course has been in the hands of the last two Macdonald 
College classes in printed form, and it is hoped that the full course, 
including directions for the lecture table and laboratory experiments, 
will soon be regularly pubhshed in text-book form. 

The definition of chemical dmnge is first discussed. Such familiar 
illustrations as the charring of sugar, the souring of milk, and the 
fermentation of fruit are used, in addition to those commonly pre- 
ferred on account of their theoretical simplicity — such actions as the 
burning of magnesium ribbon and the rusting of iron. 

Decomposition is exemplified, not only by such chemically simple 
changes as the effect of heat on limestone, and the electrolysis of 
water, but also by the effect of heat on sugar or starch, and the putre- 
faction of meat or casein — reactions with which the term decomposi- 
tion is commonly associated in the lay mind. 

Following the conception of decomposition, the student is intro- 
duced to the ideas of element and compound and to chemical nomen- 
clature reduced to its lowest terms — the signification of the suffixes 
"ide" and "ate." Chemical notation is utilized, but the student is 
not required to master it. Reactions are commonly expressed in 

' Reprinted from Scltool Science and Mathematics, vol. 12, 19 12. 

117 



ii8 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

words, as well as in symbols. The atomic theory is presented dog- 
matically and its relation to chemical notation pointed out. 

Instead of next passing to a study of the elements and their binary 
compounds — as is commonly done in purely cultural courses — w^e pass 
directly to the definitions of acid, base, and salt. Hydrogen and 
oxygen having been prepared incidentally to the introductory topics 
of the course, it is not difiicult to show by laboratory experiments 
that the substances called acids have not only a sour taste and a 
characteristic effect on litmus, but also liberate hydrogen when treated 
with metals. The formation of salts in these reactions can be illus- 
strated not only by evaporating the solutions, but also by a lecture 
experiment in which concentrated hydrochloric acid is treated with 
sodium, and the purified solid product tasted by the class. 

It is also possible to establish by qualitative experiments that the 
typical base, caustic soda, contains the three elements, sodium, hydro- 
gen, and oxygen. The insoluble bases and basic oxides are then 
introduced, and the effects of acids upon them illustrated and ex- 
plained. The rusting of iron and the tarnish of other metals are 
accoimted for as due to superficial oxidation, iron oxide scaling off 
and exposing new surface, while zinc and aluminium oxides are adher- 
ent, and serve to protect the metal from further corrosion. The 
various artificial protective coatings for iron are discussed, and the 
virtue of prompt polishing of stained household cutlery impressed. 
The effect of oxalic acid and salt of lemons (acid potassium oxalate) 
in removing rust stains from fabrics is also explained here. 

The conception of strong and weak acids is next introduced by 
experiments showing that normal solutions of hydrochloric and 
sulphuric acids attack zinc more rapidly than do the equivalent 
solutions of formic and acetic acids. The principle having been 
illustrated, the student is asked to memorize a classification of the 
common acids and bases, according to strength. 

A laboratory exercise follows, which not only serves as a review 
of this classification, but also affords practice in nomenclature, and 
introduces the conception of hydrolysis. A dozen soluble salts are 
given out with their common and chemical names. The students 
dissolve the salts and record for each the reaction to litmus, the 
name of the corresponding acid and base, and the relative strengths 
of these acids and bases. Reviewing the record they discover that 
in aqueous solution (i) the salts of strong acids with strong bases, 
e.g., sodium chloride, are neutral; (2) the salts of strong acids with 



1913] A Course in Chemistry 119 

weak bases, e.g., aluminium sulphate, are acid; (3) the salts of weak 
acids wath strong bases, e.g., sodium carbonate, are alkaline; and 
(4) that no salts of weak acids with weak bases have been given 
them. That the water has acted upon the salts derived from either 
a weak acid or a weak base can be made clear — at least for the case 
of a weak acid — by an experiment with soap. Dissolved in alcohol, 
a good soap is neutral to the indicator, phenol phthalein. The addi- 
tion of water to the alcoholic solution causes the pink coloration 
indicative of alkalies to appear. The water has liberated a certain 
amount of acid and base, and the latter being strong has affected 
the indicator. 

Hydrolysis may be defined as such action of water on a molecule 
as results in the production of two or more new molecules. In the 
case of a salt the new molecules formed are an acid and a base. But 
the general principle of hydrolysis is illustrated in many other reac- 
tions of importance in the household, and particularly in the processes 
of digestion of the three great classes of food constituents, proteins, 
carbohydrates, and fats. Hence the prominence accorded to a phe- 
nomenon commonly ignored in elementary chemistry. 

The interaction of two salts, with the production of a precipitate, 
is illustrated by the action of soap with hard water. The topics 
of temporary and permanent hardness of water, and the theory of 
water softening are now in order. 

Ammonia comes next, and serves as a connecting link between the 
alkalies and the alcohols. For ammonium hydroxide is an alkali, and 
can be classed as a base, if we slightly modify the definition of base 
originally learned. And familiarity with the ammonium radical pre- 
pares the student to accept the radicals of the alcohols. 

Incidentally, uses and abuses of "household ammonia" may be 
referred to — uses of the material and abuses of the name. 

The current of thought now flows smoothly into the regions of 
organic chemistry. Alcohols are the hydroxides of radicals composed 
of carbon and hydrogen. Like alkalies, alcohols react with acids. 
The products of such action are water and esters. Fats are esters. 
Like salts, esters can be hydrolyzed. The hydrolysis of esters is 
accelerated by the removal of any product of the reaction. The 
presence of a strong base results in the immediate removal of the 
acid formed in the hydrolysis of an ester. Hence saponification is 
simply the hydrolysis of an ester in presence of a base. Therein lies 
the basis of soap-making. 



I20 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

The dissolving of fats in such liquids as benzine is contrasted with 
their behavior on shaking with water. The difference is that between 
solution and emulsification. Both these processes are utilized in the 
cleaning of fabrics; the former in dry cleaning, the latter in laundry 
practice, where the marvelous emulsifying powers of soap solutions 
play a part of immense importance. 

Fats, having been considered in the role of raw material for soap- 
making, and in that of dirt on fabrics, have now to be discussed as 
constituents of foods. Their presence in some foods is obvious. In 
others, such as oatmeal and nuts, it can be demonstrated by extract- 
ing the ground material with a solvent, filtering and evaporating. 
The use of benzine, rather than ether, as the solvent will be appre- 
ciated by girls of weak stomach. 

Fat may also be extracted from the leanest meat, if water has 
first been removed from the tissues by kneading in strong alcohol. 
The proportions of fat in various foods is now discussed with the 
class, then the process of digestion and the energy or fuel value. 

In studying the digestion of fats, which according to recent views 
is essentially a hydrolytic process, the student meets with an example 
of the effect of a ferment in accelerating hydrolysis. The same influ- 
ence is later shown to be equally important in the digestion of carbo- 
hydrates and proteins, and is more readily demonstrated by labora- 
tory experiments upon nutrients of these classes than upon the fats. 

Following the fats, the carbohydrates are discussed. By placing 
solutions of typical sugars and polysaccharides in parchment dia- 
lyzers, surrounded by water, and allowing them to stand over to the 
next meeting of the class, the fact that only the sugars pass through 
membranes can be demonstrated. This explains the necessity of 
hydrolytic cleavage of the polysaccharides in digestion. The neces- 
sity for the hydrolysis of the disaccharides, cane sugar, malt sugar, 
and milk sugar, it has been my custom to leave unexplained. 

The digestion of starch by saliva is, of course, easily demonstrated 
in the laboratory, and an invertase can be isolated from yeast and 
used to illustrate fermentative hydrolysis of cane sugar. Acid hy- 
drolysis can also be readily demonstrated with cane sugar, starch, 
and filter paper. Incidentally to these experiments the student 
becomes familiar with the Fehling test for reducing sugars, and the 
iodine test for starch. The modification of the Fehling solution 
devised by Dr. Stanley Benedict (now of Cornell Medical College) 
I have found very convenient for laboratory use, as it is kept in a 
single bottle, and does not deteriorate. 



1913] A Course in Chemistry 121 

Alcoholic fermentation and caramelization of sugars are topics of 
obvious interest to the housekeeper. 

The treatment of the proteins, the most complex and therefore 
the most difficult class of nutrients, must now be faced. Their unique 
composition and functions must ob\dously be emphasized, and the 
wide divergence of properties among them must not be concealed. 
A few of the leading protein tests are learned by e.xperiment upon 
isolated proteins, such as egg albumen, blood albumen, and casein, 
and are then applied to food materials, and also to the discrimination 
of silk and wool from cotton and linen. The digestion of proteins 
is illustrated by treatment of fibrin with pepsin in hydrochloric acid 
solution, and with trypsin in sodium bicarbonate. 

To complete the discussion of foods, the composition of those of 
vegetable origin is contrasted with that of foods of animal origin. 
The leading exceptions to the general rule that vegetable foods are 
carbohydrate foods, and animal foods protein and fat foods, are 
recounted. 

In the discussion of foods, fuel value has to be given prominence. 
Irving Fisher's mode of comparing fuel values and expressing the 
composition of foods recommends itself by its simplicity. It is of 
much greater value to know what percentage of the total fuel value 
of a food comes from protein than to know what per cent of the total 
weight is composed of protein. 

Dietary Standards conclude the subject of foods. 

The discussion of combustion I have allowed to follow that of foods, 
though it would be possible and might be advantageous to introduce 
it much earlier. 

The course I have outlined occupies the time at the disposal of 
my class, which is made up of students taking a one-year course in 
household science, and having only a single two-hour period a week 
to devote to chemistry. Teachers having more time, or a better- 
prepared and better-graded class, can easily expand the course upon 
the same principle of selecting the theoretical matter appropriate to the 
household applications of chemistry which they desire to bring to the 
attention of the class. Whatever work is undertaken, the habits of 
careful observ^ation and logical deduction should be fostered. Any 
household science course which does not promote the scientific spirit 
is evidently misnamed. 



THE HOME AND SOCIAL EFFICIENCY/ 
Eva W. White. 

Our educational system has been highly developed in this country 
in spite of the fact that it is open to criticism at several points. We 
have recognized that national wealth does not he in natural resources 
as such, but in the inteUigence and skill of the people, and in conse- 
quence we have developed a great democratic system of education. 
This intelligence and skill appUed along the Unes of action in our com- 
munities have made possible our prosperity. We are, however, in 
the progressive stage of demanding constantly increasing efficiency. 
It is not enough that many have contributed much. The question 
is how far has each individual contributed and what have been the 
results, judged quite as much by the social ideals, the poUtical and 
industrial hves of our people as by material production? On the 
one hand, is our scheme of education adaptable enough, differentiated 
enough, to search out the greatest ability in a child in order to fit 
that child for his special place in the world? Is our training incisive 
enough so that our lessons grip in to the extent of being applied with- 
out being discounted by 90 per cent? On the other hand, do we pay 
enough attention to those elusive factors in education which are quite 
as important as the more tangible forms of instruction and which 
give the incentive for accompUshment? 

Aside from any differences of opinion as to liberal versus technical 
training, it is coming to be pretty generally agreed that it is not right 
under our conditions to allow children to go through the elementary 
grades without some kind of instruction which touches the vocational 
side of Hfe. All along the Une courses of study are tending to become 
more varied and to be closely allied to the activities of given com- 
munities. The school is no longer an impregnable fortress, but is 
broadening its sphere so that it is coming into vital relationship with 
the entire round of the interests not only of its children but with 
the interests of those adults who are pupils in evening schools and 
other forms of supplementary education. 

^ Presented at the Annual Meeting of the American Home Economics Associa- 
ation, Boston, 191 2. 

122 



1913] The Home and Social Efficiency 123 

Any student of social questions knows that we are in a period of 
industrial readjustment, of economic strain. Grave problems are 
facing us — problems of labor, of government, of immigration with the 
argument for and against its effect on the American standard — and 
in the background of all the discussion stands the American home. 
Questions of pubUc pohcy react always upon the family imit. Talk 
in as large terms as we may, there is no getting away from the family 
and that relationship which exists between father, mother, brother 
and sister. All our institutions are upheld and are conditioned by 
the general level of family life. PoUticians may talk in terms of 
pub he poUcy; business men, in terms of trade; educators, in terms 
of educational theory; economists, philanthropists, theologians — each 
from his o\\-n standpoint — but they uill all fail to hit the mark unless 
consciously or unconsciously their arguments are shot through with 
an interpretation which has come to them as the result of a wide-range 
contact with family circles. The only reason for all our effort is the 
good of the indi\-idual, the individual in association, of course. In- 
fringe in the shghtest degree on the rights of the home, and no amount 
of outside patching will make amends. The brains, bodies, the char- 
acters of our children cannot be developed to the highest point except 
by giving the widest opportunity to the home. We sometimes lose 
the issue in our intense absorption in a special line of endeavor. Every 
thing seems more important than the home. The inventor working 
to perfect a machine thinks only of the mechanism. He does not 
make the connection step by step through industry to the individual, 
then on to that individual in the natural group of which he is one. 
Those who are primarily interested in the home should, it seems, 
bring the proper perspective to bear on world issues in the Ught of 
the home. 

This paper centers about the broadest possible interpretation of 
the sphere of the homemaking or domestic science speciaUst. There 
is no calling more inclusive in its scope than that of homemaking. 
Those who stand for the home stand for the institution which is the 
great contributing institution from one generation to the next. The 
home stands supreme as the pivot around which whirls every circle 
of activity and is the gauge of any given time. All kinds of schemes 
for advancement may be put forward but unless the home is func- 
tioning efficiently, efficiency is itself impossible, absolutely. There 
is not a single institution which can make up for the incomplete home. 
The social worker is baffled again and again in situations unless the 



124 TJie Journal of Home Economics [April 

home can be stimulated to use its leverage. All of us have at one 
time or another had to do for children who have come from chaotic 
homes, and we have had to face the tragedy that no amount of after 
training can rub oS the ear marks of that early experience. Why 
is it that so many wayfarers have been in orphanages? Why is the 
infant mortality rate higher in infants' hospitals than in even the 
unsanitary home? Hasn't a member of the poorest family you know 
an advantage over the person, who though less worried by economic 
strain, has no ties of kin? Read some of 0. Henry's stories describing 
the lonely "single dwellers" in New York to sense the keenest pathos. 
A district in a city, a district of extreme congestion, many basement 
dwellings, hundreds of dark rooms, family after family living in alley 
tenements where not a ray of sunlight penetrates from one end of the 
year to the other — the clutter of the district, to say nothing of the 
filth, is repulsive in the extreme — nevertheless from this district is 
drafted a considerable proportion of the workers of the city. Busi- 
ness man after business man complains of the inefficiency of the em- 
ployee. Everything is to blame — the individual, surely; the school 
system which does not justify its expenditure if it cannot at least 
develop concentration. Trade school? There is no initiative in 
those who are trained. "In these days," says an employer, "in spite 
of our tremendous scientific plans for developing the man who will 
take responsibility and forge ahead, workmen do not take any interest 
in their work." We must admit that all of this is true in many in- 
stances. There is a lack of pride in doing a task well, a lack of that 
recurrent, stimulating satisfaction which comes from joy in a task 
and from the successful accomplishment of the task. Our training 
does not give back to us results proportionate often to the expenditure, 
and it never will unless we acknowledge that the dynamic to bring 
about a better order of things lies in the home. Consider a boy or 
girl in a city living under conditions similar to those described. From 
babyhood — what? Not even the sunlight necessary for the hot-house 
plant. Good red blood is a factor in efficiency. When consciousness 
of motives is daw^ning in the child mind only the struggle for mere 
existence is sensed. Father and mother are deadened to the point 
of accepting a treadmill succession of days; uncouth manner; lack of 
demonstrative affection (often a defence to shut out emotion which 
might make less easy the tenseness of the struggle), stand for the 
child as the accepted manner of life. The sharp words, the taunts — 
not really as bitter as they seem, let me say again — yet to the child 



1913] The Home and Social Efficiency 125 

they become the example of the way a mother and father address 
each other. Does success lie entirely in concrete training or does 
something of outlook on life enter in? Culture? The unconscious 
effects of beauty of surroundings, of the cultural elements? What 
chance have thousands upon thousands of our boys and girls to 
gain that first refining influence of the home? We shall never get 
that attitude of mind which causes a man to appreciate the signifi- 
cance of his work unless the home ceases to be stunted and unless 
culture is democratised and through the home subtly trains the 
child to appreciate values in life. We are wasting time, expending 
effort to no purpose in our attempts to get eflSciency unless we can 
bring life in its most abundant form within the comprehension of all 
workers. It is for the homemaker to strike the truth in this matter 
of efficiency, to point out the irony in expending large sums of money, 
to say nothing of the human effort involved, in our public institutions 
of learning when the whole is undercut by allowing men and women 
to become physically enervated by slum conditions so that efl&ciency 
is by that very fact shut out at the start. The possibilities of any 
system of education are limited by the physical status of the people 
to be taught and by the mental qualities of intellect and imagination 
which give the \-ision that stimulates a man to persist at his work. 
The mental and physical characteristics cannot, taking people by 
and large, be disassociated. Now one weak home on the basis of 
parents and three children, supposing the three children marry and 
each has three children who pass on the same inability, has an influ- 
ence so far reaching we do not care to think about it. The fact that 
we are so exphasizing efficiency means that we have caught the vision 
of the tremendous future we have if we can at least eliminate the 
handicaps of en\-ironment. We are inclined to talk in very scientific 
terms about the effects of environment on posterity. It is a far- 
reaching theory' — the direct effects of environment — but most of us 
can be quite content to turn our attention to the results to be gained 
by simply multiplying the number of clean, well-run homes by one, 
two or three, and by doing what we can in the way of making public 
service such that homes can develop. WTien the business man faces 
us with his inabiUty to command efficiency, let him know that the 
fault is largely his through the direct misuse of his franchise. Tariff 
is of more importance than any so-called humanitarian measure 
which too often is put in the class with good- will offerings and is not 
considered from the standpoint of business necessity. The Industrial 



126 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

Workers of the World do not talk in terms of high finance and inter- 
national relationship or involved theory. Their appeal goes straight 
out in terms of the welfare of women, children, the home, and because 
of the vividness of their argument, much as we may censure phases 
of the movement, they have made us stop and think. We are at 
fault, are we not, if when we stand for anything as vital as the home, 
we let a single opportunity go by for as telling an argimient as we 
can put forward? We should court the experience of knowing home 
conditions, the homes of the unskilled in the mining town, in the 
manufacturing community, and industrial districts of our cities, as 
well as the homes of the skilled workers and the rich in the same 
communities. We are not working for homes in any one city, but 
for the national ideal of home. We are not concentrating our atten- 
tion solely on educating the immigrant or the ignorant to an apprecia- 
tion of right living. We are trying to develop the highest conception 
of homemaking in every grade in society and I am not sure that we 
could not for a time leave the poor man out and consider the home 
standards of the more favored in society. Homemaking has to do 
not only with the physical management of the home but with those 
spiritual phases which make home. Now in a country where social 
capillarity plays as direct a part as in this country, those who are, 
so to speak, at the point to which others are striving, have a responsi- 
bility indeed. Must a family keep a maid in order not to be socially 
ostracised? Is housework so demeaning? Must young people at 
the very start Hve in a certain section w^here rents are high because 
everyone rushes to the same district, to escape the sympathy of their 
friends, or put off marriage until it is possible to live with the same 
luxury of surroundings to which they are used? How about the quali- 
ties of — just manhood and womanhood? Yet, truly, the attitude of 
mind is such in regard to some of these questions that it takes real 
character and considerable stiffness of backbone for young people to 
stand by real home values. 

Clearly, it is not enough for the person who is interested in home- 
making to know merely the technical processes of the home. The 
management of the home, on its material side, is only one branch of 
homemaking. There is the element which has to do with the involved 
problems of the housewife as a producer and consumer. Then there 
is the element which has to do with the moral factors of the home. 
Thirdly, the home cannot be detached from the community but must 
be interpreted in the light of its relation to its neighborhood, city, 



1 9 13] The Home and Social Efficiency 127 

state. WTiat is our attitude toward divorce, diminishing birthrate, 
eugenics? Have we carefully thought out the interdependence of 
the home and the community? Do we see clearly the wide influence 
of the home, the power of the housekeeper? In the field of social 
reform alone, if the housekeeper would refuse to buy a single article 
made by child labor, how long would child labor be an issue? Pure 
food would not be as rare as now if women would take a stand in the 
matter. As ci\dlization advances, grows more complex, the relations 
of individuals become more inter-related and they become more and 
more dependent on the community. Have we the argmnent gained 
from woman's contribution to the home to foretell the responsibility 
the woman's movement is to place upon woman? Aside from any 
question of suffrage it is daily becoming evident that woman, because 
of the function of the home in a commimity, is called to use her talents 
outside the home in the realm of public affairs. Woman in the home 
has made her unique contribution by virtue of her special feminine 
qualities. In the field of world affairs, I am one who beUeves that 
woman there will make her contribution along the lines of her special 
fitness, as in the home, and assmne a large responsibility in warding 
off dangers from the home and in working for constructive issues to 
upbuild the home. Woman's place in industry is not to be neglected. 
Statistics show that an increasing number of women are entering 
industry, but it is also shown that the majority of them sooner or 
later retire to home life. This situation presents, then, a double 
problem; woman must be trained to industrial efficiency, and she 
must also be trained for her ultimate place as homemaker and mother. 
Industrial occupations must be gauged by their effect on woman's 
position as the preserver of the race. Hence we homemaking spe- 
ciaUsts must know industry well. 

Now there are two ways of working for the home. First, through 
our educational system, and second through every pubUc avenue that 
gives us an approach to the home. We must clear the way so the nor- 
mal home can develop by standing for decent housing, more equitable 
wages, shorter hours of labor so that men and women shall have leisure 
to enjoy home life, as has been pointed out, and we must persist- 
ently educate public opinion by means of periodicals, clubs, popular 
lectures. If we grant that efficiency springs from the home and is 
conditioned by the home, then home training should be the correlative 
center for education and this basic teaching should be related closely 
to the pupil's experience. The result of such teaching would be that 



128 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

the children who pass through our schools would sense the humanistic 
value of their training and would get an understanding of social 
and economic relationships. As a body of persons interested in the 
broader aspects of domestic science we should endeavor to have the 
homemaking subjects wind in and out through cultural or industrial 
courses of any kind. The teaching should be virile and adapted to 
the specific needs of the persons taught as regards race, occupation, 
locality. Blanket courses of studying covering all parts of a city 
leave much to be desired in the way of effectiveness. Courses which 
teach just cooking or some phase of sewing need to be expanded. 
That instruction should be adapted to the conditions of local homes 
is obvious. We want loo per cent results if we can get them. In an 
Italian district it is ridiculous to teach nothing but American dishes. 

The variety of foods among many immigrants tends to be Umited. 
First teach children how to properly cook their own dishes. Such 
lessons will probably be used as most children in our industrial neigh- 
borhoods help in the housework. I have frequently gone into cook- 
ing classes where foodstuffs were used without any regard to local 
conditions. Teaching the children of men engaged in the heaviest 
kind of work "dainty dishes" is an absurdity. The coarser foods are 
the ones on which to concentrate. Cooking teachers should be fired 
to know their districts, there is such a wealth of wonderful material 
to be gained. They should use all ingenuity to make connections 
with the homes from which their pupils come. If teachers of house- 
hold branches would only live in their districts for a time! The sac- 
rifice is not as great as might be supposed. 

Not only should we as members of this conference use every effort 
to have household branches expanded in our regular day schools, 
but we should use every means in our power to have incorporated 
into our school systems every form of supplementary homemaking 
instruction that community needs make apparent. Have courses of 
varying lengths to meet the demand of the mother, the factory girl, 
who because of home ties desires instruction in household subjects, 
the girl about to be married. The point is to raise the efficiency of 
as many homes as possible — even one degree is something — and by 
methods that are as telling as possible. Therefore we should try 
to meet specific needs. For example, a group of mothers needs to 
know something of infant feeding. They cannot spare the time 
to attend a series of 30 lessons, but 6 or 8 lessons could be arranged. 
Now the 6 or 8 lessons constituting a "unit course" meet a definite 



1913] The Home mid Social Efficiency 129 

need and accomplish a definite result. Great possibilities lie in the 
unit course if the groups can be kept small, and the teaching made 
illustrative and practical. 

The home movement is gathering force, but much, very much, will 
depend on the women who are caught up by it within the next few 
years. We should try to attract to the work persons of large calibre. 
The home movement should be interpreted only by those who sense 
the richness of the calling, who see the possibih'ty that exists in the 
instruction — yes, of boys as well as girls. Once arouse the inborn 
appeal of the home and that has been inbedded in character which 
though it may lie dormant for years will, I have faith, later do much 
in influencing the child in relations to the home. I know a factory 
worker, a spinner, who herself has had no advantages and yet who has 
a perfectly ordered home with a certain air of refinement. One day 
I said to her: "Mary, how can you keep so neat and attractive a 
home, working as hard as you do?" She looked at me a second and 
replied: "WTien I was a girl I decided to choose an honest man and 
give my children a chance." 

For two generations, covering a period of seventeen years, a certain 
family have been a problem. The grandmother of the person in 
question was slovenly in the extreme. The mother was as slovenly 
and as bad a manager as her mother, and drank as did her husband 
also. There were four children from the union. The oldest boy, 
now 22 years of age, is constitutionally weak because of neglect in 
childhood. The next is a girl of 19 and is the one in whom we are 
specially interested. The third child suffered for years from a tubercu- 
lar bone disease and died. The youngest child is delicate and almost 
constantly under the care of the district nurse. To return to the girl 
of 19; of all the children she seemed to have the most resistant con- 
stitution. She has grown to full womanhood, a fascmatmg, witty, 
auburn-haired person. As a small child and well into the teens she 
seemed the incarnation of all that is mischievous — yet there was a 
pathetically responsive side to her nature. She with the other chil- 
dren was frequently asked to the settlement house when things were 
bad at home. From these occasional glimpses of another kind of 
living she caught some idea of standard. Two years ago she married. 
Her furniture, although bought on the installment plan, is nearly 
paid for, and her expression "same as yours" when showing me her 
household goods means volumes. Direct examples from our home- 
making classes at Elizabeth Peabody House proving the effective- 



130 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

ness of homemaking instruction, could be multiplied. I have seen 
entire family situations change because of the imtiring efforts of a 
settlement worker to rouse the mother or a child to appreciate prop- 
erly cooked food, cleanliness, order. Morality, one comes to realize, 
rests frequently on a sanitary, nutritive basis. 

From homemaking departments in public schools, philanthropic 
institutions, wherever homemaking is taught, the appeal should go 
directly to the young as well as to the more mature, to their heroism, 
to stand as defenders and upbuilders of the home. 



MANAGEMENT OF CHILDREN PREDISPOSED TO 
NERVOUSNESS.! 

A Summary. 

A few months ago. Dr. Barker of Johns Hopkins University read 
before the Public Health Conference of the physicians of Maryland 
a paper which will be interesting to all those who are directing the 
education of children, whether in the home or in the school, for, as 
Dr. Barker says, "There is a growing desire on the part of well in- 
formed people nowadays to make sure that the means of education 
they provide for their children shall be such that the nervous system 
will be protected and strengthened rather than exposed to over-strain 
and injury." 

The paper shows the thorough knowledge of pathological conditions 
which we would be led to expect in so eminent a physician and teacher 
of physicians, but it manifests also a singularly sympathetic under- 
standing of normal childhood. Here we find the speciaUst's firm, 
sure touch and also the humanitarian's broad sweep of interests. 
The child has been studied with reference to his possible need of cure, 
but even more than this, with reference to his preparation for bearing 
the inevitable stress and strain to which he will be subjected in his 
everyday life. He is to be guided and saved instead of being allowed 
to be shipwrecked and then rescued. 

The section on food, fresh air, exercise, and methods of hardening 
the body to changes of temperature, in which the foundation is laid 

1 On the Management of Children Predisposed to Nervousness. Lewellj^s F. 
Barker, M.D., Professor of Medicine, Johns Hopkins University. The Btilletin 
of the Medical and Chirurgical Faculty oj Maryland, March, 1911, Baltimore, sub- 
scription, 25 cents a year. 



1913] Management of Nervous Children 131 

for the more original part of the paper, that on "psychic hardening," 
puts the stamp of the approval of an eminent authority upon lines of 
procedure that are followed by the majority of intelligent parents who 
can control the conditions of their children's lives, and who aim to 
train and not to pamper them. 

"One fact which has become ever clearer as medical knowledge has 
advanced concerns the nutrition of the child. Faulty feeding in 
infancy and early childhood may lead to such impoverishment of the 
tissues and such stunting of growth that the ill effects can never be 
recovered from in later life. A considerable proportion of the intellec- 
tual and moral inferiorities among our people is fairly attributable 
to imperfect nutrition at this early age. Fortunately the public is 
now being so thoroughly educated to the importance of breast feeding 
for infants and of liberal and suitable diet during the early years of 
life, by family physicians and also through the excellent little manuals 
of Holt^ (2), Starr (3), Griffith (4) and others on the care and feeding 
of children that it is not necessary to dwell at length upon the subject. 
Plenty of good simple food including milk, meat, vegetables, and fruit, 
\s'ith avoidance of condiments, coffee, tea, and alcohol is approved 
by all authorities. 

"Many parents make the mistake of allowing the caprice of the child 
to influence its food. We now know the foods that are suitable for 
children and, knowing these, the children should be provided with 
them in suitable amounts and should be required to eat of them, largely 
independent of choice. The child that learns to eat and digest all 
wholesome foods and who is not permitted to cultivate little food 
antipathies makes a good start and avoids one of the worst pitfalls of 
life with which medical men are very familiar, namely, a meticulous 
anxiety concerning the effects of various foods, all too likely to develop 
into a hypochondriacal state." 

While the writer deprecates the extreme measures taken by faddists 
to harden their children, he says that "a still greater mistake is made 
by those who over-protect their children and who fail to accustom 
their bodies early to cool baths and to exercise in all sorts of weather." 
In this, as in all parts of the paper, he seems to have in mind the people 
with whom the child must live in later life, as well as the child him- 
self, for he discusses hardening as a means, not only of "giving him a 
tolerance of variations in temperature," but also of preventing him 
from "grumbling at the weather." 

* The reference numbers refer to the list of references given on p. 135. 



132 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

The "harmonious muscular development which is necessary for the 
welfare of the mind and of the nervous system" is best secured out- 
doors, "where children are led unconsciously to exercise their muscles 
more than is possible indoors." But such development must be 
secured in part through systematic, physical instruction, "particu- 
larly in cities and during the school year." A little book, entitled 
My System, by J. P. Mliller (5), is especially recommended. 

The hardening of the body is, however, more generally recognized 
as essential to health than "the steeling of the mind to bear pain and 
to ignore small discomforts." The second part of the paper, there- 
fore, which deals chiefly with the latter subject has special importance 
just now. A few extracts are given below: 

"Every child should undergo a process of 'psychic hardening' 
and be taught to bear with equanimity the pain and discomfort to 
which everyone sooner or later can not help but be exposed. 

"Physicians who work among nervous cases realize how often the 
child who has been too much protected from pain becomes the victim 
of nervous breakdown later in life. I have seen many a woman who 
could bear great sorrow or suffer without flinching the pain of child- 
birth, who still had no tolerance for the little ills of life. In such cases, 
it is the idea rather than the sensation from which the patient suffers, 
and such abnormal ideas most frequently arise in those who have 
not learned in childhood to bear pain well or to adjust themselves 
without complaint to the disagreeable sensations and experiences, 
which are essential to a normal bringing-up. 

"The boy who learns to tumble in the gymnasium, to stand the pain 
of boxing and fencing and wrestling, and to keep his temper while 
engaged in these exercises wall have subjected himself to a training 
which cannot help but stand him in good stead later on in life. One 
reason why women are more prone in later life to nervousness than 
men, may He in the lessened opportunity which girls have for psychic 
hardening in the games which they play and the life which they lead 
as children. Particular care should be taken with young girls who 
show any tendency to nervousness, to see to it that not too much 
concession is made to their likes and dislikes. Nothing can be more 
harmful to them than the gratification of caprice. Especially when a 
child shows a tendency to be nauseated by certain smells and tastes 
and to complain of noises or of sensitiveness to bright light, the family 
physician should be consulted and, providing no disease of the sense 
organs or of the brain is responsible, the process of psychic hardening 
should at once be begun." 



1913] Management of Nervous Children 133 

After giving the records of two cases of h>persensitiveness among his 
patients, one, a woman who was completely upset by the "sound of 
her husband chewing at the table, or pufiBng his cigar," and another 
of a man who, at times, was totally unable to bear strong hght, the 
writer says, "While in severe cases Uke these just referred to, the 
patients undoubtedly started in life with abnormal nervous systems, 
it is quite conceivable that a judicious hardening in early life might 
have prevented the later shipwreck. I cannot too strongly recorn- 
mend, therefore, the acquisition of tolerance of disagreeable feeling- 
tones as early as practicable in Hfe." 

♦ * ♦ * 

"Still another manifestation, common in children, and fostered too 
often by the example of the parents, is vacillation. In one form of 
functional nervous diseases, indecision is a most prominent symptom. 
Parents should see to it that children are not exposed to a pernicious 
example in this regard. While there are some children of the 'hair- 
trigger' type, who have to be taught deliberation in the making of 
decisions, there are more who have a tendency to doubt and indecision, 
and should be taught that it is better after due consideration to make 
a decision, even though it be wrong, and to stick to it, rather than to 
remain undecided." 

* * * * 

"The control of the stronger passions is for some easier than the 
mastery of ordinary irritation, and nervous children should both by 
example and precept, be taught how to stifle irritability whenever it 
arises. So few adults have learned how to meet the daily friction that 
there would seem Httle chance as yet for the nervous child constantly 
exposed to a bad example." 

The influence of purposeful adult lives upon the forming ideals 
of childhood could hardly be better expressed than in the following: 
In his book, entitled The Natural Way ui Moral Training, Patterson 
Du Bois (12) emphasizes the importance of what he calls "nurture by 
atmosphere," by which he means the indirect education of the feel- 
ings, and John Dewey asserts that "The feelings and sentiments are 
the most sacred and mysterious part of the individual, and should 
always be approached and 'influenced indirectly.' More can be 
accomplished by the setting of a good example in enthusiasms, depre- 
ciations, reverence, and admirations than by direct preaching." 



134 The Journal oj Home Economics [April 

"It is a serious mistake to lead the young child into experiences 
that belong properiy to a later age. When children under ten years 
of age are made to travel extensively, to visit museums and picture 
galleries, to attend the theatre and the opera, they are introduced to 
entertainment wholly unsuited to their time of life and which they, 
in their immaturity, are entirely unfitted to enjoy. Later on, at an 
age when they should learn to know such things for the first time, 
the attractiveness of novelty is wanting; they are cheated of the 
pleasures which normally should be theirs. As Oppenheim well puts 
it, a 'child's childishness is its greatest asset.'" 
* * * * 

"Above all as a factor making for the health of the nervous system, 
the joy of work must be referred to. It is one of the greatest pleasures 
life offers; moreover, it compels concentration of attention, and pro- 
tects from all the dangers which attend upon idleness. ' Education to 
idleness is education to nervousness.' 

"Overwork must be avoided; neither bodily nor mental fatigue 
should be permitted in excess. Regular, systematic, enjoyable work, 
suited to the interests and powers of the worker, is the best tonic I 
know of. If the w^ork can be in the country, rather than in the city, 
all the better, especially for those with nervous predisposition. The 
enjoyment of nature possible in the country, the opportunities for 
work in wood, field, or garden, and upon the river, keeping the 
worker much in the open air, exercising his muscles, drawing his 
attention away from himself and fixing it upon things outside — 
what conditions could be more favorable to the health and happi- 
ness of the nervous child? If the nervous children that we see in 
towns could be transplanted to villages and the country — away 
from the din and bustle of the city, its restlessness, its haste and 
its feverish excitements, what a host of advantages would accrue! 
The schools are growing ever better in the country; in many country 
districts they are now excellent. The movement which began with 
the New School of Dr. Cecil Reddie (15) in Abbotsholme, England, 
and which has led to the Landerziehungsheime [country home-schools] 
of Lietz (16) in the Harz and in Thuringia and of Triiper (17) near 
Jena should be followed and imitated in this country. 

"In any case nervous children should not be sent to school too early; 
preferably they should start a year or even several years later than the 
normal child. And in the schools they should never be pushed ahead 
too fast; competition is dangerous for the nervous child. The mis- 



19 13] Management of Nervous Children 135 

taken ambition of parents who desire their children to head the class 
is often responsible for serious injury to health. 

"Sleeplessness is always a danger signal. In children it is most 
often due to indigestion or to mental overstrain; occasionally to 
premature sexual excitations. If insomnia appear, and especially if it 
persists, the parent should consult a physician. 

"Medicine, psychology and pedagogy are all concerned in solving 
the problem presented by the nervous child. These sciences have 
already made great conquests; what the future may hold for them, 
who will attempt to foretell? Let us avail ourselves of the knowledge 
we have, doing what we can to dispel the scepticism of the ignorant 
and at the same time avoiding the futile enthusiasm of those who 
beHeve they know all." 

To this very valuable paper is added the following list of references: 

(i) Nervenleiden und Erziehung. H. Oppenheim. Berlin, iSgg. 

(2) The Care and Feeding of Children. L. E. Holt. New York, 1910, 4. ed. 

(3) Hygiene of the Nursery. L. Starr. Philadelphia, 1894, 4. ed. 

(4) The Care of the Baby. J. P. C. Griffith. Philadelphia, 1898, 2. ed. 

(5) My System: Fifteen Minutes' Work a Day for Health's Sake. J. P. Miiller. 
New York, 1905. English Translation by G. M. Fox-Davies. 

(6) Ten Minutes' Exercise for Busy Men. L. H. GuUck. New York. 

(7) Exercise in Education and Medicine. R. T. MacKenzie. Philadelphia, 
1910. 

(8) Physiology of Bodily Exercise. F. Lagrange. London, 1889. Also, Les 
Mouvements m6thodiques et la " m6canotherapie." Paris, 1899. 

(9) The Human Machine. A. Bennet. New York, 1910. 

do) Hysteria imd Neurasthenie. T. Ziehen. Article in Eulenburg's Real- 
Encyclopadie. 

(11) Fear. A. Mosso. English translation by E. Lough and F. Kiesow. New 
York, 1896. 

(12) The Natural Way in Moral Training. Four Modes of Nurture. P. Du 
Bois. New York, 1903. 

(13) Educational Creeds. J. Dewey. 

(14) Technisches und Psychologisches in der Beschaftigung von Nervenkranken. 
A. Grohmann. Stuttgart, 1899. 

(15) Abbotsholme. Rep. Roy. Com. on Secondary Education. C. Reddie. 
1894. Also, his book — Abbotsholme 1889-1899, or ten years' work in an Educa- 
tional Laboratory. London, 1900. 

(16) Emlohstobba. Bilder aus dem Schulleben der Vergangenheit, Gegenwart 
Oder Zukunf t. H. Lietz. Berlin, 1897. See also W. Frei's Landerziehungsheime, 
Leipzig, 1902. 

(17) Das Erziehungsheim und Jugendsanatorium auf der Sophienhohe bei 
Jena. J. Triiper. Langensolza. 1910. 



SPOILED CHILDREN.! 

A pampered, spoiled child is like a hope that will never materialize. 
The faintest wish of a pampered child is law. The supremacy of 
antique dynasties is heavy upon him. If he sleeps, the members of 
the household suspend the breath and hush the footfall. If he wakes, 
there is nothing permitted to interfere with his mshes. Does he care 
to play horse? The father bends his patient back and canters to and 
fro like a steed of the desert. Does he sneeze? Every window is 
shut, and adult cumberers of the earth long for repose. At the 
table, perhaps, he evinces a sudden desire to walk upon the \aands. 
He plants one foot in the salad and with a dimpled hand toys with the 
mashed potatoes. He is removed from his playground by force, only 
through fear that excitement will make him ill, not out of respect for 
the sensibilities of the over-fastidious guest. 

Many children are growing up into physical, nervous, and moral 
wrecks, because they are humored too much. There must not be so 
much emotional attention given to infants. Almost any baby in 
three months can be made an autocrat; and many children, before the 
end of their first year, have true nervous prostration from too much 
attention. 

Children should entertain themselves and be less entertained by 
others. This will develop their minds and rest their emotions. We 
must observe them less and talk less about them in their presence. 
Otherwise we are sure to evoke a series of most vicious emotions which 
grow into habits that influence them in a wrong direction in after 
life. 

We ought to stop trying to make young ladies and gentlemen out of 
children. To push them into responsible social life early is to develop 
emotions and cares, and subject them to tests and temptations that 
ought to be postponed for years. 

The child who can endure disappointment, who can be "crossed" 
without a tantrum, and who habitually obeys, is building a bulwark 
against "nerves;" and the one who is not frightened easily, and has 
self-control and a budding courage, has nipped many serious illnesses 
in the bud. 

^ Reprinted from National Food Magazine, 34, no. i, p. 19, 1913. 
136 



THE NEW CHILD LABOR MOVEMENT. 
William A. ]McKeever. 

Professor of Philosophy, Kansas State Agricultural College. Author of "Training 
the Boy," "The Home Training Bulletins," etc. 

What is the true purport of the new child labor movement? An 
inquiry among ordinary parents tends to show that there is grave 
danger of misinterpretation of the child labor laws. Legislation in 
defence of childhood is now common in practically all of the states. 
Thousands of boys and girls once employed in sweat shops and fac- 
tories are being set free by legal requirements from this kind of heavy 
toil, and are thus being given the first step toward normal and healthy 
development. 

Every Child Should Work. 

But this new legislation does not mean that childhood should be 
reHeved of all industrial practices. It simply means that the grasp- 
ing greed of business shall not rob the child of his inherent right to 
play, to attend school, to associate happily with others, and other- 
wise to develop the best inheritances in his nature. It means that 
the work is to be subordinated to the child, not the child to the work; 
that the industry required of the child shall not be for the sake of the 
profits, but rather for the sake of his physical growth, his moral charac- 
ter, and his general discipUne. 

And so we would remind every interested reader of the necessity 
of giv^ng the growing child the benefits of disciplinary work and indus- 
try. This country is now slowly reorganizing itself into an industrial 
democracy. The rights of the common man and the common woman 
were never before held so sacred. There is a couintry-wide effort to 
exalt common things and common practices, to give every worthy 
task and vocation an opportunity to rank up in point of worth and 
dignity. The child that is allowed to grow to maturity without being 
required to perform home tasks and duties, without being trained 
in the beginnings of one or more of the trunk lines of industry — that 
child is destined more and more to find himself poorly adjusted to 
the coming social order. Very soon it will reflect discredit, if not 
disgrace, upon the parent who fails to train his child industrially, 

137 



138 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

just as is the case today with the one who fails to train his child 
morally. 

A New Problem for the School. 

The public school must meet this new issue and do more to prepare 
the yoimg for participation in the great industrial democracy now 
slowly coming into existence in America. The school must teach and 
explain and exalt common work and ordinary industry. Pupils are 
now to be taught early in Hf e, for example, how to do plain housework, 
ordinary home chores, and how to lay hold upon the hea\der industrial 
pursuits, as the status of their years and strength may warrant. 

The teachers who have caught the spirit of this new age have hit 
upon a charming plan for making industrial teaching both popular 
and effective. They are giving school credit for home tasks in the 
same manner as they give for school tasks. The ten-year-old boy 
goes home at the end of the month with a grade card from his teacher 
showing his rank in arithmetic, reading, language and the Uke, and 
the next day he returns with a similar card from his parent showing 
his grade in tending chickens, horses or cows; in helping with the 
housew^ork, in carrying wood and kindling, in delivering milk and 
running other errands, and the like. The girl pupil carries home a 
similar score-card from her teacher and returns \\ith a like report 
from her parent. Perhaps she has a grade in dishwashing, caring 
for the baby, doing the bedroom work, darning her own stockings, 
mending her own clothes, and the like. The school grades and the 
home grades are averaged and the pupil's standing is thus made out 
and recorded. 

So the school vitalizes its teachings and awakens a vast amount of 
interest and effort in the field of common work-a-day achievements. 
As a consequence there is much comment at home and at school upon 
the several newly required tasks. There is praise for efficiency in 
home industry, and there is blame for remissness. The do-nothing 
boy, no matter how smart in mere book lessons, is shown up to a dis- 
advantage. He is ranked proportionately low in his final grade and 
is made ashamed of his unworthiness in respect to industry. 

School and Home Coordination. 

As certain as this good world moves, and has its being, there is here 
suggested a great call to the parents and teachers of America to rally 
together and cooperate in bringing up a new race of men and women 



1913] Home Economics in a Rural School 139 

— ^new in respect to their attitude toward the world's work, new in 
their sympathy and fondness for the world's great productive indus- 
tries, new in their fullness of respect and love for the toiling masses 
of humanity, and new in their quickened sense of the beautiful good- 
fellowship that is possible only to those who have been trained to 
expend some of their energies in the performance of plain, honest, 
ermobling work. 

Teachers and parents must come closer together. They must 
form home and school leagues or associations, they must assemble at 
convenient places and talk over their mutual child- welfare problems. 
It will be found profitable in every sense of the word for teachers and 
parents to meet once or twice a month at the school house for a full 
afternoon program during which the children will be turned out to 
play under the guidance, perhaps, of some able adult leader. Thus, 
through the medium of heart to heart contact, will all who are inter- 
ested in the new humanity and the new industrial democracy find 
ways and means for contributing their part toward its realization. 

THE INTRODUCTION OF HOME ECONOMICS IN A 
SOUTH CAROLINA RURAL SCHOOL. 

Anna L. Leggett. 

Winthrop College, South Carolina, is carrying on many interesting 
experiments of various kinds. One feature which especially claims 
attention is the experimental rural school, conducted on the edge of the 
campus. This school is presided over by an imusually capable woman, 
a veritable genius in directing and controlling the many lines of work 
that are carried on in an ungraded rural school. 

The various industrial departments of the college are working out a 
course of lessons, presenting the respective subjects and correlating 
them with the grade lessons. The aim is to make them practical for 
the average rural school teacher in giving the children an all-round 
education, developing personal efl&ciency by teaching hand and 
brain to work in perfect harmony. 

The head of the domestic science department is personally conduct- 
ing the cooking lessons, demonstrating their relation to the other sub- 
jects; for instance, figuring out the number of quarts of peas planted 
in the gardens, the number of quarts after the crop has been gathered, 
and how many shelled peas there will be from a quart of unshelled 



I40 The Journal of Home Economics [x^pril 

peas. The children also locate the states on the map where certain 
commodities are produced. 

Last year the children in this school prepared one hot dish each 
day for their noon recess, instead of bringing a cold lunch from home 
(many of these pupils come four miles in the stage which is provided 
for them). They had the option of bringing two cents per day or 
some material suggested by the teacher to be used for their lunch, 
such as hominy, buttermilk, potatoes, apples, and so forth. The 
majority preferred to bring the food stuffs, as ready money is not 
always available in the farmer's home. 

This year, however, the systematic study of food principles and of 
the composition of foods was taken up, and three lessons a week, one 
hour in length, were allotted to the cooking lessons for the first term. 
Two lessons per week for the second and third terms will be given. 

The children have school gardens where the material may be ob- 
tained. Cost is a great item and is very carefully considered in each 
lesson. Often the cost of the dish prepared is computed and its adapta- 
bility and suitability for home use are discussed. A report is requested 
as to whether the parents will consent to the child preparing the same 
dish at home at some convenient time. Cooperation with the home is 
emphasized whenever possible. The first lesson of this term was given 
on canning pears, which had been sent as a contribution for the cook- 
ing lessons. The children studied the composition of fruits, located 
on the map the sections of the country where fruits abound and then 
canned the pears. The other methods of preserxdng foods — pickling, 
drying, etc., were next taken up. Fruit was dried, jelly made of the 
skins and cores; cabbage from the gardens and a beet brought from 
home were pickled. 

The cooking lessons furnish subject matter for number work, and 
new words used in the lesson are taken up in spelling. Copying of 
recipes is given as a part of the written work, and the making of a 
cover for the recipe book is made a part of the occupation work in 
designing. 

Good housekeeping is taught with each lesson, but the children's 
training from last year was so systematic that very little extra time 
had to be given to emphasize this. The boys take great pleasure in 
washing the dish towels and pinning them straight on the line. The 
arranging of the kitchen cupboard is the girls' special care and delight. 

A study of potatoes, white and sweet, was made from those grown 
in the school gardens. A microscope was used to show the starch 



19 13] Length of Laboratory Period 141 

grains to the unbounded delight of the children, and the proper cook- 
ing of starch was next emphasized. 

For Hallowe'en the children popped corn and parched peanuts 
grown in their gardens. 

A Norwegian prune pudding was made in this series of lessons as 
an appropriate dish for Thanksgiving, and also as a review of the cook- 
ing of starch and dried fruit. Another attractive and inexpensive 
dish made by the children was a nut loaf. Nuts are plentiful in South 
Carolina and the children contributed some they had gathered in the 
woods, which lessened materially the cost of the loaf. 

The study of corn will be taken up as soon as the children have 
visited a mill and have seen the grinding process, as the school is 
taking up the study of Hiawatha and primitive life. 

Thus the lessons will proceed, arousing the interest in the bettering 
of home conditions especially in regard to the economical spending 
of the family income for food, shelter and clothing; learning to con- 
serve the products of the farm, thus raising the family standard, and 
dignifying woman's position in the home. 

LENGTH OF LABORATORY PERIOD.^ 

B. R. Andrews. 
Secretary of Household Arts, Teachers College. 

Some time since I received an inquiry from the principal of a promi- 
nent eastern high school to the following effect: 

I am studying the proposition of introducing single periods of forty-five or fifty 
minutes in place of the customary double periods for work in household arts, drawing 
and shop- work. I am writing to a few schools to see what experience they may have 
had. I imderstand that some have tried the plan of single periods, being induced 
to try it on accoimt of the semi-annual promotions and subject promotions. That 
is what gives the problem to me. It occurred to me that perhaps you or some of 
your associates at Teachers College may have some facts already at hand that would 
be of assistance to me, and I am writing this letter to ask if you ^nll inform me of 
anything that you may know; and, if you will kindly do so, pass on my inquiry to 
other departments of Teachers College which may be able to give me the desired 
information. I shall appreciate a reply at your convenience. 

^ Editor's Note. — The question of the length of laboratory periods is one that is 
of much interest to schools and colleges throughout the country giving courses in 
home economics. The Journal will be glad to have comments and suggestions 
from its readers as to the results in other institutions of the single and double 
period. 



142 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

This inquiry was referred to a number of instructors in our depart- 
ments of household arts and industrial arts whose replies are given 
below as of possible interest in other institutions where the question of 
the length of laboratory period in household arts is still an open one. 

Miss Amy Logan, of the Horace Mann School of Teachers College: 

In the Horace Mann School there are double periods for the cooking lessons; in 
the fourth and fifth high school year there are forty-minute lecture periods in house- 
hold management which are successful; but for practical work a one-hour period in 
the high school is all too short because of the necessary loss of time in directions 
and cleaning. With single-period lessons it seems wisest to devote one entirely to 
theory and discussion but I find the interval that elapses before appUcation dis- 
astrous, especially when in the following period of laboratory work there is no time 
for review. 

Miss Anna M. Cooley, Professor of Household Arts Education: 

It has been my experience and observation that it is almost impossible to con- 
duct classes in household arts and drawing with only fifty-minute periods. By the 
time the lesson is properly presented and the work distributed and incidental help 
given to individuals it is almost time for the work to be put away at the end of the 
half hour, and it is hardly worth while to spend but fifteen or twenty minutes in the 
actual sewing. Of course this arrangement is not true of all classes, for the time 
allowed for presentation of work would vary from day to day. I believe there is 
economy of time arrangement of double periods for work and I am conscious 
always of the great waste when we are compelled to divide our work so as to have 
only fifty-minute periods. 

Miss Helen Kinne, Professor of Household Arts Education: 

I want to put myself on record emphatically for the double period in cookery, 
housewifery, and laundering. We have been forced this year to give the cookery to 
a high school class in an hour period. It is thoroughly unsatisfactory. It must be 
evident on the surface that certain of these processes from their very nature consume 
a definite amount of time that cannot be shortened. Many typical and really fun- 
damental processes have to be omitted if a shorter period is used. Both instructor 
and pupils suffer from a sense of pressure and haste. It is almost impossible to do 
the work intelligently. An hour and a quarter is the very shortest time that is 
practicable. My feeling is so strong in regard to the matter that I am inclined to 
recommend dropping the work in these subjects if the necessary amount of time 
cannot be allotted. In home nursing, and in the theoretic work in sanitation and 
dietaries, the short period is possible. 

Mr. WilUam Noyes, Professor of Wood-Working: 

I think it would be a great mistake to shorten the periods. Better to lengthen 
them. Every change that we have made lenglhening the period has been of great 
advantage. 



NUTRITION AND DIETETICS FROM THE STANDPOINT 
OF PHYSIOLOGICAL CHEMISTRY.^ 

JuDAH Leon Jona. 

Note : Questions of dietetics are commonly discussed in their chemical relations 
and less commonly in their physical aspects. Notwithstanding the great progress 
which has been made in physical chemistry in recent years, the applications of 
methods and results to nutrition have not been very numerous. Perhaps one of 
the best known examples of physical chemistry apphed to food matters is the use 
of a method for determining the purity of milk which depends upon the variations in 
the freezing point of pure and watered milk. An interesting paper has recently been 
published by Judah Leon Jona, assistant lecturer in ph\'siology in the University 
of Melbourne, Australia, which has to do \\'ith osmotic pressure in the living body. 
In addition to reporting the osmotic pressure in a considerable variety of food 
materials and an extended study of the comparative cryoscopy of the blood of land 
mammals, Crustacea, etc., the author discusses osmotic pressure in relation to nu- 
trition, a starting point being the theory that life had its origin in the sea and that 
the body fluid of animals still retains physical characteristics of the solution in 
which life began. 

Extensive quotations from Professor Jona's paper follow. 

The primitive form of life from which all present existent form, 
of am'mal life are derived was, according to the Darwinian theorys 
a unicellular organism, analogous to the Amoeba, which, undoubtedly, 
lived in the ocean. From this form were evolved the simple coelenter- 
ates, and ultimately animals appeared which contained in their 
organization a closed cavity which contained a fluid undoubtedly 
derived from the environment, the ocean. This closed cavity and 
its contained fluid were ultimately destined to become the circulatory 
system and the circulating fluid (blood) of the higher animals. 

When these primitive animals left the sea and took to an estuarine 
life as a preliminary to living in the mud and, ultimately, on dry land, 
they took with them, contained in this body cavity, a fluid which 
had the same chemical composition as the ocean, their original home. 

In the future evolution of this type of terrestrial animal, it is 
legitimate to postulate that the composition of this fluid remained 
about the same, and thus the animal, its cells attuned to a fluid com- 

* From the paper, "Osmotic Equilibration in the Living Body," by Judah Leon 
Jona. Proc. Roy. Soc. Victoria, n. ser., 24, 191 1, no. 2, pp. 230-232, 232-235, 239. 

143 



144 ^^'^ Journal of Home Economics [April 

position, and by its terrestrial life removed from any chance of being 
exposed to any alterations in the composition or concentration of 
this circulating fluid, was given ever}' opportunity of ascending in 
the scale of evolution. 

We have here the first example of standardization in the body, 
one of the principal stepping-stones to the proper and efficient evolu- 
rion of the indi\idual and race, a process well exemplified in the high 
degree of standardization met 'U'ith in the higher animals, not only 
of the osmotic pressure of the blood, but also the chemical composi- 
tion, salt ratios, surface tension, and \-i5cosity of the blood, as well 
as standardization of body temperature, rate of heart beat, and rate 
of respiration; the higher the animal the greater is the degree of 
standardization of its various fvmctions 

With what mechanisms, then, is the animal organism endowed 
which enable it to oppose en\ironmental influences affecting the 
osmotic pressure of its blood? 

We know that one of the chief functions of the kidneys is to main- 
tain the osmotic pressure of the blood constant, and, since in the 
mammal (for we know more of mammals and are better able to study 
them) there is a constant drain of water from the blood to supply the 
sweat and saliva, both ver\' watery fluids (all other secretions being 
more or less isotonic with blood), the kidney is normally called upon 
to secrete a fluid whose osmotic pressure is generally ver}' much above 
that of the blood. In this connection the results of Sommerfeld and 
Roder^ are of interest. The osmotic pressure of the urine of a suckling 
fed on different milk diets was determined, and it was found that on 
a diet of full cow's milk the urine had .... an osmotic 
pressure, or A as it is designated, of o.736°C., and on its mother's 
milk the urine of the suckling gave a A of o.746°C. But there is 
another means at the disposal of the organism, and that is by allowing 
entr>' into the alimentar>' canal of foods whose osmotic pressure is 
not above that of the blood, or in the case of sea animals (teleosts 
upwards), where this is not possible, either the non-absorption of the 
extra saline constituents of the sea water, or if the absorption of these 
substances does take place, their elimination by the kidney. Bottazzi' 
has shown in the case of the marine teleosts that the latter process 
takes place, but whether marine mammals have adopted this prac- 
tice, or whether they simply do not absorb the excess of salt Cand 
thus of necessity do work against osmotic pressure), has not been 

^ Sommerfeld and Roder, Berl. Klin. Woch., 519, 21, p. 544, 1902. 
3 Bottazzi, Ergebnisse d. Physiol., 1908, S. 246, et. seq. 



19 13] Nutrition and Dietetics 145 

determined But iii regard to land mammals in general 

and man in particular, my o^ti observations on the osmotic pressure 
of liquid foods throw some light on the subject. 

It is generally admitted that one of the functions of the stomach 
is the establishment of osmotic equilibrium between the fluid food 
swallowed and the blood.^ This it does by adding salts, etc., to 
hNpotonic fluids, and by diluting the h>'pertonic. In the latter func- 
tion the action of the stomach is aided by the saUvary glands, which 
pour out a copious secretion of saliva. In one experiment cited in 
the appendix, 72 cc. of saliva were poured out in fifteen minutes 
during the process of che\\ing about 1 2 grams of barley sugar. 

This function is no doubt protective, for the deleterious effects of 
exposing tissue cells to the action of hypertonic or hypotonic fluids 
are well known. The swelling up of, and interference with sensation 
in, and the function of the skin after prolonged immersion in water, 
and on the other hand the 'roughness' produced when a piece of con- 
fectioner)' is retained for a few minutes between the teeth and cheek, 
are common examples. 

Of the foodstuffs ordinarily admitted to the stomach, the great 
majority are in solid or gelatinous or colloidal form, and to such sub- 
stances the considerations of osmotic pressure cannot apply. The 
actual fluid foods admitted to the stomach of man are milk, the 
ordinary' beverages, fruit juices and beef teas, meat extracts and 
soups, while in the case of the lower animals in the natural state, the 
list is very much shortened, since the ingestion of prepared foods is 
solely confined to man and the domestic animals. In tea, coffee, 
and cocoa there is usually a sugar addition which varies with the 
personal taste, but the A given by the contents of a cup of tea, as 
prepared for an ordinar}' indixidual, was found to be about o.46°C. 
The A of milk has been determined by many observers, and is the 
same as the blood, 0.57 to 0.59. Of all the fluid foods admitted to 
the stomach of man, alcoholic beverages and fruit juices alone are 
hypertonic. In fact most of the fluid foods admitted to the stomach 
are hypotonic, thus containing a water excess which the organism 
readily avails itself of for puq:)0ses of 'flushing out' the system, and 
which also allows of the addition of hydrochloric acid in the stomach. 
Moreover, it may be safely stated that in no case is a fluid admitted 
in which the h\pertonicity is due to the mineral ingredients alone, 
except under protest. The sense of taste stands at the entrance to 
our alimentary canal, and tests the food not only qualitatively but 

* Bickel, Handbuch d. Biochem. (edited by Oppenheimer) , Vol. Ill, part i. S. 86. 



146 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

also quantitatively from the standpoint of molecular concentration. 
To this function of the sense of taste we may give the name osmo- 
tactic, and it is undoubtedly to the possession by the sense of taste 
of this osmotactic character that the stomach mucosa is shielded 
from exposure to foods whose osmotic pressure is far above that of 
the environment to which the cells are normally accustomed. When, 
for any reason, a highly hypertonic fluid is admitted to the stomach, 
then vomiting (or sometimes diarrhea) is the result. This is well 
seen after the ingestion of strong salt solutions, large quantities of 
sweetmeats, or strong peptone solutions, or over-indulgence in alcoholic 
or strongly saccharine beverages. In the process of mastication and 
swallowing, the salivary glands are stimulated to the pouring out of 
a copious secretion, and the organism has developed here, too, another 
mechanism to aid in the dilution of the stomach contents — namely, 
the sense of thirst, the proper satisfaction of which, by the ingestion 
of a sufficient quantity of water, tends to the dilution and consequent 
lowering of the osmotic pressure of stomach contents. If these pro- 
tective mechanisms fail in carrying out their object, then the organ- 
ism responds by rejecting the contents of the stomach altogether by 
reflex mechanism of vomiting. 

Thus in man, at any rate, and undoubtedly in the case of the 
other mammals, the maintenance of a constant osmotic pressure of 
the blood by means of the kidneys and excretory organs is in a remark- 
able manner and to a considerable degree aided by the possession by 
these higher animals of the senses of taste and thirst. (Of man and 
mammals we can speak -with certainty, although it is legitimate from 
common experience to postulate that all vertebrates at least possess 
these senses too). The power to vomit is possessed by most animals. 
Amongst ruminants and sohpeds it is a rare occurrence, but, after 
all, the nature of the food of these animals would undoubtedly exempt 
them from the necessity of ever rejecting the contents of the stomach. 
But with man and the carnivores particularly, the nature of their 
food, particularly the liability to putrefaction and ptomaine forma- 
tion, renders the existence of the power to vomit a necessity, alto- 
gether excluding considerations of the osmotic pressure of stomach, 
contents, which pertain chiefly to man, who, by an abuse of his intelli- 
gence, perpetrates dietetic errors from which the lower animals are 
protected by their instinct, and senses of taste and smell. 

In connection with those hypertonic fluid foods which are normally 
admitted to the stomach of man, the following obser\^ations of mine 



1913] Nutrition and Dietetics 147 

are of interest. A definite volume of beer was taken which gave a 
A of 2.246, evaporated to dr}Tiess and then calcined. The ash was 
then taken up in the same volume of distilled water, and dissolved 
almost completely, lea\'ing a small residue of calcium carbonate, 
which probably existed in the beer as the soluble calcium salt of 
some organic acid. This watery extract gave a A of o.026°C.; and 
similarly with the juice of the orange — 

A of juice o . 990 

A of aqueous extract of ash o. 132 

These experiments are analogous to what occurs in the body. 
The saccharine and alchoHc constituents of the food are rapidly 
absorbed and burnt off, or stored in the body as inert substances (cf. 
glycogen), while the saline constituents are left to play their part 
in the osmotic pressure phenomena in the body. Thus we see that 
the kidney is constantly called upon (in marine forms always and 
generally in land mammals as well) to excrete inorganic salts, which 
tend to produce a rise in the osmotic pressure of the blood, and thus 
the urine is generally hypertonic. Prima facie, this means work done, 
and hence in metabolism experiments this work done should be in- 
cluded in the energy balance sheet, for in some cases the amount of 
energy thus expended may attain considerable dimensions when con- 
verted into terms of heat value or mechanical work. 

We thus see that in the evolution of the race there has been a 
steady growth of the tendency of the individual to become independent 
of its environment (and therefore not compelled to change in response 
to alterations in that environment) by means of maintaining through 
the coordinated and integrative action of all its organs, constancy 
in the action of its vital parts. 

The removal of its vital organs from the disturbances of function 
which must of necessity follow alterations in the physical and chemi- 
cal properties of their environment, which in the higher animals are 
dependent on those of the circulating fluid, was the first great advance, 
and ensured for the organism the better and more efiicient action of 
these organs, and afforded a distinct impetus to higher specialisation 
and greater independence of external environmental change. Thus, 
the beginning of the development of the firm resistant bony skeleton 
in place of the soft cartilaginous framework, and the formation of a 
high type of tissue from a simple one which this advance implies, 
most probably began to take place at a time in the history of the 



148 



The Journal of Home Economics 



[April 



race when the cartilaginous fish was lea\ing the sea and taking to 
the mud of estuaries, where it most probably also developed the 
mechanism for maintaining the salt ratios and osmotic pressure of 

its blood a constant 

Of course in considering this problem due consideration must be 
given to the method of 'give and take' which is exemplified in all 
evolutionary processes. Thus could be explained any unaccountable 
differences in vascular development or higher development in parts 
of the nervous system in some of the lower animals, and as analogies 
may be taken the loss of the ah'mentary canal in intestinal worms 
and the degeneration of the organs of smell in man when he assumed 
the erect posture. 

Osmotic pressure of liquid foods .^ 



NO. OF DE- 
TERMINATIONS. 



AVERAGE 

OSMOTIC 

PILESSUEE (A). 



Beverages. 

Coffee (sweetened) (2 tbsp. sugar in ordinary break- 
fast cup) 

Tea infusion (2 tsp., about 12 cc, tea leaves in 200 cc. 
boiling water, infused 5 minutes) 

Tea (with milk and sugar) (100 cc. infusion, 50 cc. 
water, 25 cc. milk, 10 gm. sugar) 

Tea, second infusion (200 cc. more water added to 
leaves from first infusion, allowed to stand 35 min- 
utes) 

Lemon juice and water (33 cc, juice of i lemon in 250 
cc. distilled water) 

Lemon juice and water (100 cc. diluted juice and i tsp., 
5 gm., cane sugar) 

Lime juice and soda water (commercial product) 

Beer (draught beer) A 

Beer (draught beer) B 

Beer ash extract (30 cc. of B dried and calcined, 30 cc. 
distilled water) 

Wine (75 cc. kept between 77° and 8o°C. for 35 min- 
utes and boiled 7 minutes to get rid of alcohol 

Foodstufs. 

Treacle (and water) (i part to 7 parts water) 

Peptonized milk (a commercial brand) (3 parts milk, i 
part water, peptonized 20 minutes, with i oz. cane 
sugar to I pt. milk) 



0.342 
0.050 
0-4S7 

0.025 

0. 124 

0.486 

1 . 266 
2.408 
2.248 

0.026 

3.240 

I 730 
0.654 



' Average values calculated from the fuller data reported by J. L. Jona, loc. 
cit., pp. 242-248. 



I9I3] 



Nutrition and Dietetics 



149 



Osmotic pressure of liquid foods .^ — Continued. 



NO. OF DE- 
TERMINATIONS. 



AVERAGE 

OSMOTIC 

PRESSUXE (A). 



Foodstuffs. — Contin ued. 

Peptonized milk (a commercial brand) (2 parts milk, i 
part water, peptonized 20 minutes, sweetened) 

Peptonized milk (a commercial brand) (4 parts milk, i 
part water, peptonized 20 minutes) 

\'egetable soup (carrot 100 gm., parsnip 1 10 gm., turnip 
55 gm., spring onion 47 gm., celery 25 gm., parsley 
12 gm., water, 1,500 cc, cooked 2 ^ hours, strained, 
unsalted) 

Vegetable soup (above soup with 4 per cent salt) 

Vegetable soup (above soup with 2 per cent salt) .... 

Vegetable soup (above soup mth 0.8 per cent salt) . . . 

\'egetable soup (above soup with 0.75 per cent salt).. 

Vegetable soup (above soup with 0.33 per cent salt). . 
(All salted soups tasted too salt except last) 

Beef tea (6 cc. meat extract in 1,000 cc. v/ater, un- 
salted) 

Beef tea (above with 2.5 per cent salt) 

Beef tea (above with x.25 per cent salt) 

Beef tea (above with 0.625 per cent salt) 

Beef tea (above with 0.416 per cent salt) 

(Sample with 0.625 per cent salt had satisfactory' taste) 

Beef tea (6 cc. meat extract in 1,000 cc. boiling water) 

Beef tea (salted to suit taste of "A") 

Beef tea (salted to suit taste of "B") 

Beef tea (oversalted) 

Sugar Solutions. 

Dextrose solution (salivated) (100 cc. of 10 per cent dex- 
trose solution taken in mouth in sips of 25 cc. each, 
kept in mouth § minute, with 5 minute intervals be- 
tween sips) 

Dextrose solution (ro per cent, salivated) 

Dextrose solution (5 per cent) 

Dextrose solution (5 per cent, salivated) 

Cane sugar solution (salivated) (20 gm. in 150 cc, 13.3 
percent, 100 cc. treated like dextrose solutiona bove, 
7 cc. saliva added to 100 cc. sugar solution. There 
was an after secretion for several minutes, 13.3 per 
cent) 

Cane sugar solution (salivated) 



0.628 
0-547 



0-373 
2-757 
1-536 
0-853 
0.780 
0.584 



o. 140 
1.626 
0.885 

0-544 
0.417 

o. 160 

0330 
0.329 

1 .922 



I 


1.156 


2 


1.067 


I 


0.566 


3 


0-534 



0.868 

o. 790 



Average values calculated from the fuller data reported by J. L. J( 
, pp. 242-248. 



ona, loc. 



cit 



15° 



The Journal of Home Economics 



[April 



Osmotic pressure of liquid food.^ — Continued. 



NO. OF DE- 
TERMINATIONS 



AVERAGE 

OSMOTIC 

PRESSURE (A). 



Friiit Juices. 

Lemon (140 gm. jdelding 40 cc. strained juice) 

Orange (135 gm. yielding 50 cc. strained jmce) 

Orange (225 gm. yielding no cc. strained juice) 

Orange juice ash extract (30 cc. juice dried and cal- 
cined, 30 cc. water. Small undissolved residue was 
chiefly calcium carbonate) 

Pineapple juice (fresh Queensland fruit) 

Coconut "milk" (nut yielded about 150 cc.) 

Peaches (300 gm. fruit, 5 stoneless, yielding 180 cc. 
strained juice) 

Apricots (formed pulp only, no juice obtainable) 

Plums (formed pulp only, no juice obtainable) 

Cherry plums (500 gm. fruit yielding 250 cc. strained 
juice) 

Tomato (350 gm. fruit jaelding 80 cc. juice) 

Apples (300 gm. fruit yielding 30 cc. juice) 

Gooseberries (300 gm. fruit yielding much pulp, 10 cc. 
juice) 

Cherries (250 gm. fruit yielding 105 cc. juice) 

Grapes (250 gm. fruit yielding 160 cc. juice) 



0-939 
1 . 100 
0.991 



0-133 
1.462 

0.519 
1.089 



3 


1.032 


3 


0.527 


3 


1. 194 


3 


1-352 


3 


2.244 


2 


3-251 



' Average values calculated from the fuller data reported by J. L. Jona, loc. 
cit., pp. 242-248. 



H. SOPHIE NEWCOMB MEMORIAL COLLEGE 

(See Frontispiece) 

The dining room of the Domestic Science Department of the H. 
Sophie Newcomb Memorial College, Tulane University, New Orleans, 
La., is interesting to the students and friends of the college because it is 
an example of the cooperation of its art school. It is a north room with 
old-fashioned white woodwork and walls of soft deep yellow above the 
platerail, with gray-green below which tones in well with the black- 
green of the highly finished oak furniture. This furniture was designed 
by an Art School senior and is thoroughly good. 

The electric dome, the keynote of the room, with its purple grapes 
and green leaves on a soft yellow background was not only designed 
but made in the pottery department, where the china was painted 
to harmonize with it. The fine Newcomb embroidery on Russian 
linen for table service and day service also shows the grapevine, while 
on the plate-rail many fine pieces of Newcomb pottery show their 
beautiful blues and greens and coppery tones against the plain 
paper. The large water color painting of the college grounds, which 
hangs above the mantel, is the work of a graduate student. 

The views of the old live oaks, the gray walls of the main building, 
and the drifting clouds seen through the linen scrim of the unshaded 
windows add greatly to the charm of a room which serves well its pur- 
pose for the pleasant gatherings held in it. It is dignified and satis- 
fying, a pleasure to the Art School as well as to the domestic science 
department. 



151 



SCHOOL LUNCHES AT BASEL, SWITZERLAND.^ 

George Nestler Trioche. 

In Switzerland, as in nearly all European countries, school lunches, 
when organized by the state (canton) or by the cities, are free. At 
Basel, the state and the city are all one, that is to say, the canton or 
state is formed by the city proper and a few suburban places, such as 
Riehen. This canton is called Basel Stadt (Basel City); the sur- 
rounding country forms another canton (Basel Coimtry). The fol- 
lowing information refers only to the former. The estimates of the 
canton for 19 12 state the expenditures for school lunch work to 
be as follows: 

(i) For distribution of milk and bread (to the Pestalozzi Society), 
Frs. 2700. This society is taking care of poor scholars. It buys 
bread and milk with the funds contributed by the state. 

(2) For distribution of milk and bread (to the Community of 
Riehen^), Frs. 300. At Riehen, the " Schoolhouse" distributes milk 
and bread by means of the contribution which the state places at 
its disposal. 

(3) Breakfast to poor scholars of special classes, Frs. 2000. This 
contribution will be increased. 

(4) To the Soup Commission, Frs. 7050.80. A private commission 
by the name of "Commission of School Soup Distribution" arranges 
for the preparation of the soups. The soup is cooked early in the 
morning and at 9 o'clock sent over to the schoolhouses. Every day, 
8-12, scholars of each class receive at 9 and 10 o'clock one plate of 
soup. The expenses are covered by the following receipts: State 
contribution, Frs. 7050; Collection made between all scholars, Frs. 
12,000; Sundry donations by merchants, etc., Frs. 5000; about Frs. 
24,000. Distribution of soup from the beginning of December to 
the end of March. Composition of soup : Rice, peas, oatmeal, lentils 
with a little boiled meat in it. 

(5) For the expenses of summer vacations for poor children, Frs. 

1 These particulars have been compiled from information forwarded to the writer 
by the Superintendent of Public Instruction of the Canton of Basel-Stadt. (Erzieh- 
ungs-Department, Basel-Stadt, A. No. 7021, den 19 Dezember 191 2.) 

2 This is a suburban village, which is in fact a part of Basel-City. 

152 



19 13] College Courses in Gardening 153 

7000. A private committee collects the money needed to send sev- 
eral hundred children to the country for a summer vacation; to this 
the state contributes Frs. 7000. The children are divided into groups, 
each of which is under the supervision of a teacher. 

(6) Home for children at Langenbruck, Frs. 2000. Consumptive 
school children are taken care of by a private committee which sends 
them to a sanatorium at Langenbruck. 

COLLEGE COURSES IN GARDENING. 

A Letter from England from a College Girl to Her Alma 

jMater. 

"Wouldn't it be fine to have a course in gardening given at the 
college? It is such a glorious profession for girls, and so much more 
profitable and interesting than ordinary athletic games. When I 
see how even the cottagers here use and beautify every inch of their 
land, it makes me ashamed to remember that I was nowhere in school 
or college, taught to develop the ground on which I stood. Most 
city people do the best they can with their lawns in front — but why 
are they content with lawns when they could have flowers, and why 
aren't their back yards full of small fruit bushes and vegetables and 
pretty borders of flowers instead of step ladders and wash-tubs and 
ash piles and rubbish and weeds, weeds, weeds! What a vision of 
loveliness could be made of the tract of land the college has re- 
ceived if I could be turned loose in it with a couple of dozen enthusi- 
astic girls, and as many spades and forks and rakes and barrows and 
trowels, etc., etc., etc. Why, A^-ith an hour a day for a college year 
they would transform that waste land into a paradise which would 
supply the college with all its flowers and half its vegetables. 

"With a lady gardener in charge that tract could be used for this 
purpose until the new library or whatever it is can be built. At present 
the college seems to turn out 99 per cent teachers of whom a large per 
cent chuck the whole thing and marry in a few years, and spend the 
rest of their lives wishing they had learned something along with 
general culture which would help them to be good wives and mothers 
and homemakers. Do start with gardening as requiring the least 
equipment and from it build up more fully the domestic science depart- 
ment to supplement the pedagogic department. Let the domestic 
science class five in the Bush house and run it like a house, and work 
it themselves in relays, along with their other class-room work." 



REFRIGERATORS. 

Hermann T. Vulte. 

Assistant Professor of Household Chemistry, Teachers College. 

The object of refrigeration, of course, is preservation. That will 
depend on at least three conditions — low temperature, ventilation and 
dryness. 

Low temperature can readily be secured by the melting of ice, either 
naturally, or by the influence of some chemical salt. Ventilation is 
accomplished by ordinary means. The dryness depends upon the 
rapid change of the air in the ice-box, and in a certain sense is connected 
with the question of ventilation, although attempts have been made 
on a small scale to absorb moisture by chemical substances, such as 
chloride of calcium. They are not efficient or satisfactory on a small 
scale. 

In accompanying diagram notice double wall construction on the 
sides, showing the air inlet space at A; circulating spaces indicated 
by the small arrows; direction of the air currents, and the exhaust 
hole at B; also the dead air space at the top and bottom of the box; 
drain pipe, C, carrying the water from the ice to the pan underneath 
the box. 

The entire construction of this box is in wood, interior walls being 
made of spruce or pine; the outer walls of the same material, or of 
some more expensive wood, hke oak, if desirable. The interior sur- 
faces of the interior walls are covered with sheets of rolled zinc, also 
the bottom of the box. The bottom of the ice compartment is a 
sheet of galvanized iron; tub C of sheet zinc. All of the interior spaces 
through which the air circulates are heavily covered with a good qual- 
ity of waterproof varnish. 

The theory of the working of this box is that air enters through the 
aperture A, and coming at once into contact with the ice, is chilled. 
Necessarily it is heavy when cold, easily passes out through the small 
openings in the side and down through the double wall; is delivered 
into the bottom of the box, and then, passing up through the dotted 
lines, which indicate perforated metal shelves (of zinc or of galvanized 
iron), the air current being warmed by absorbing heat from articles 

154 



I9I3] 



Refrigerators 



155 



/ 



on the shelves, gradually rises and passes out of the box at B. It is 
necessary to have small draft regulators at the points A and 5, for 
obvious reasons. 

The advantages of a box con- "^wp— « """'°" "^ miiwZIilmZl ' M 

structed in this way would be, first, I f\ 

the low cost of construction, placing 

it within the means of almost every- | / us. \ 

one; secondly, ease of keeping in 

order — metal surfaces need hardly 

any attention except washing at i I ' O 

weekly intervals, with weak soda- 

and-water solution. Drain pipe, C, 

which may become contaminated with 

refuse matter from the melting ice, I " \ 

but can easily be cleaned by using a 

vdxt — or better, a wire with brush 

end. There are no open joints in the 

interior of this box. All the edges of 

the metal surfaces can be securely 

soldered at a very reasonable cost. "^ \ '^lj' / 

The disadvantages of a porcelain 
Lined refrigerator may be summed 

up as follows: high cost; impossibility of fastening the porcelain slabs 
or plates securely to the wooden framework. These pieces of porcelain 
are necessarily small, thereby making a large number of joints. These 
joints can only be formed with substances like cement, or plaster of 
paris, neither of which is a satisfactorily adhesive substance between 
porcelain and wood. In case any one or more of the porcelain slabs 
should become detached, it is very difficult, almost impossible, to 
replace it making a tight surface. Of course the shelving can 
never be made of porcelain. Recourse must be had to the wooden 
shelf, or shelf made of sheet metal, both of which are used in the other 
type of box. 

Glass lined refrigerators have been proposed, compartments of 
which are made in one piece, without joints. These would seem to 
be ideal, except from the danger of breakage through carelessness, 
and the exceedingly high cost of the material which is practically 
prohibitive. 

In all refrigerators that are used by butchers and grocerymen in 
general, you will find that the preference is given to the wooden con- 



156 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

struction, largely on account of its cheapness, also to some extent, on 
the score of its durability and ease of keeping clean. 

There would be no reason why the wooden surface could not even 
be coated with paint, as long as the food material was not coming in 
direct contact with it. Of course the varnish coating, although more 
expensive, is more satisfactory, although I rather incline to the clean- 
liness and bright appearance of the light painted surface, for instance, 
white or some shade slightly off the white, allowing one at a glance to 
form an opinion in regard to the cleanliness of the surface. 

Any objection that might be urged against wood from the effect of 
dampness will not have much weight if the atmosphere in the box is 
kept reasonably dry. With that objection it seems to me that every 
drawback has disappeared. 

Much of the objection to the old-fashioned wooden boxes has arisen 
either because they were improperly constructed — that is, did not 
pro\dde for sufficient and rapid ventilation — or because for a long 
time the lined or filled box was used — that is, that in which the wall 
spaces were filled in wdth charcoal or some other absorbent material 
of the same nature. For a very short period of time these charcoal 
Hned refrigerators absorb deleterious odors and gases given off by the 
foods, but unfortunately they retain them and become the resting 
place of numerous colonies of bacteria, which would give rise to active 
dangers, only restrained by the comparatively low temperature within 
the box, no pro\'ision ever being made to withdraw the charcoal and 
replenish it with new material. 

As will be seen from the drawing, all of that objection has been done 
away with; fresh air is constantly circulating through the double 
walls. These are the best possible conditions that we can provide for 
apparatus of this type. 

One objection will always be offered to a box of this construction, 
the fact of its using considerably more ice than the unventilated box. 
It will be necessary to con\dnce householders that desirable low 
temperature under sanitary conditions can only be obtained by the 
expenditure of ice; and you cannot insist on that point too strongly. 



WHAT OUR FOREFATHERS COOKED AND ATE 

IN 1810.1 

What did the American people eat in the year 1810? What kind 
of food was cooked in the big open fireplaces under the swinging 
cranes, or baked in the old-fashioned brick ovens? Were the house- 
wives of the early days of the last century able to obtain the culinary 
results of the present age, and was the food either wholesome or pala- 
table? There fell into the writer's hands recently a little leather- 
covered book, which in a manner answers these questions. At least 
its 180 pages contain a great deal of information, not only regarding 
the food materials which were available in 1805, but how they were 
prepared. 

It is reasonable to believe that foodstufis were pure in those days, 
and v/e know that many kinds of food were ver}^ cheap, compared with 
the soaring prices of 1910. If materials were both cheap and good, 
one need not be surprised that the cookery was prepared in such lavish 
quantities, or that a bag of flour that would last an average family a 
week in this age was used up in one baking of pies, with other ingredi- 
ents in proportion. 

Perhaps the receipts in this little volume in the main do not differ 
greatly from formulas that may be found in similar books of today, 
though it is interesting to note that some materials considered indis- 
pensable in modem cookery are conspicuous by their absence. Flavor- 
ing extracts are not mentioned, nor are soda and cream of tartar re- 
ferred to anywhere, while baking powders were imknown. It may be 
noted, also, that housewives in 1810 were able to worry along without 
the thousand and one ready-prepared substances and food ingredi- 
ents that are obtainable today from grocers everywhere. Some of 
the food prepared after these receipts was doubtless rich — too rich, 
and too highly seasoned — but the frills and the fancy dishes do not 
appear, everything being for the most part on the order substantial. 
The cooking school was a thing of the future, and the imported French 
chef had not arrived. 

' Reprinted from Nat. Grange Ofif. Organ, 5, No. 25, p. 14, 1910. 

157 



158 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

In lieu of flavoring extracts they used quantities of rose-water, 
orange flower water, almonds, coriander seed, and the juice and rind 
of fresh oranges and lemons, and they introduced wines and brandies 
into all forms of cookery without stint. Constant use was made of 
the kitchen garden herbs, and they ran the gamut of the spices. These 
were absolutely pure, however, for the cook usually ground and sifted 
them as they were required. Even perfumes were sometimes em- 
ployed, as in "whipt cream" — musk at that. This receipt and those 
which follow are copied verbatim: 

" Whipt cream. Take a quart of cream and the whites of eight eggs, 
beaten with half a pint of wine", mix it together and sweeten it to your 
taste with double-refined sugar; you may perfume it (if you please) 
with musk or ambergum tied in a rag and steeped a little in the cream. 
Whip it with a whisk and a bit of lemon peel tied to the middle of the 
whisk, take off the froth with a spoon and put into glasses." 

There was no greedy beef trust, nor were there cold storage houses 
in 18 10, and meats cost from 3 to 5 cents per pound — ^poultry, 6 cents. 
Over one-third of the book is taken up with quaint directions for pre- 
paring all kinofds meats, fish and fowls, and with the making of soups. 
There are elaborate rules for roasting and stuffing, for broiling, boiling 
and stewing, and for making hashes and fricassees. Sweet herbs 
were introduced into nearly everything cooked in the meat line, and 
even fish; wines were used in preparing meats and high seasoning and 
spicing were the rule. Here is one of the receipts for " Alamode Beef:" 

"Take a round of beef and stuff it with half pound pork, half pound 
butter, the soft of half loaf of wheat bread, boil four eggs very hard, 
chop them up; add sage, parsley, summer savory, sweet marjoram and 
one ounce cloves pounded, chop them all together with two eggs very 
fine, and add a giU of wine, season very high with salt and pepper. 
Cut holes in your beef to put your stuffing in, then stick whole cloves 
in the beef, then put in into a two pail pot with sticks at the bottom; 
if you wish to have the beef round when done put it into cloth and bind 
it tight with 20 or 30 yards of twine, put it into your pot with three 
quarts of water and one gill of wine. A large round will take three or 
four hours to boil." 

Among the quaint receipts is one given "to dress a beefstake siiffi- 
cient for two gentlemen, with a fire made of two newspapers. Let the 
beef be cut out into slices, and laid on a pewter platter. Pour on water 
sufficient to cover them, salt and pepper well, cover with another 
platter inverted; then place your dish upon a stool bottom upwards, 



1913] What Our Forefathers Cooked and Ate 159 

the legs of such length as to raise the platter three inches from the 
board; cut your newspapers into small strips, light with a candle and 
apply them gradually, so as to keep a Uve fire under the whole dish 
till the whole are expended, when the stake will be done; butter may 
then be applied so as to render it grateful." 

Eggs were 10 or 12 cents per dozen, and they were used in combina- 
tion with all foods. As individual dishes, however, there is but one 
receipt for cooking eggs, as follows: 

"To broil eggs. — First put your salamander into the fire, then cut 
a slice round a quartern loaf; toast it bro\ATi and butter it, lay it in the 
dish and set it before the fire; poach seven eggs just enough to set the 
whites, take them out carefully and lay them on your toast; brown 
them with the salamander, grate some nutmeg over them and squeeze 
Se\'ille orange over the whole. Garnish with orange cut in slices." 

The salamander was a utensil formed with a plate of metal which 
after heating in the coals was held over the cooked dishes to brown the 
them, for, as before stated, a large part of the cooking of a hundred 
years ago was done in an open fireplace, while the ovens were the old- 
time brick affairs like many of the baker's ovens of today — the wood 
fire being built in the oven and the coals and ashes raked out when the 
prepared foods were ready for baking. 

"To fricassee a hare. — Boil the hare with apples, onions and pars- 
ley; when it is tender shred small, then put thereto a pint of red vdne, 
one nutmeg, a httle pepper and salt and two or three ancho\ies; 
stir these together with the yolks of twelve hard-boiled eggs, shred 
small; when it is served up put as much melted butter as will make it 
moist; garnish with some of the bones and the whites of the eggs boiled 
hard and cut in halves." 

In Heu of chemicals for raising all kinds of breads, cake, etc., receipts 
for such foods call for "emptins" (emptyings) — the home-made yeast 
of our grandmothers' time, which was kept in a stone crock, always 
ready for use. The only chemical mentioned in the book is pearl- 
ash, referred to in three formulas for gingerbread. Very little is said 
concerning bread and biscuit making, as everybody was supposed to 
know all about such simple matters, but there are several pages 
devoted to rusk. Here is the receipt for 

" Rusk No. 5. — One pint of milk, one pint of emptins, to be laid ov^er 
night in sponge; in morning melt three-quarters of a pound of butter, 
one pound sugar, in another pint of milk; add lukewarm and beat 
till it rises well." 



i6o The Journal of Home Economics [April 

"P. C. Rusk, No. 4," called for four pounds of flour and fifteen eggs. 
In another " six to eight pounds of flour are used with a pound each of 
butter and sugar and a dozen eggs." 

"Rusk No. 6 — Three-quarters of a pound of butter, one of sugar, 
twelve eggs, a quart of milk, as much flour as they will wet, a spoon of 
cinnamon and one gill of emptins. Let it stand till very puffy and 
light; roll into small cakes and let stand on oiled tins while the oven is 
heating. Bake fifteen minutes in a quick oven; while hot wash the 
top with sugar and whites (of eggs)." 

Invalids must have had good stomachs in those days to be able to 
eat the following "diet bread;" "One pound sugar, nine eggs beat for 
an hour, fourteen ounces of flour, spoonful of rosewater, one of cinna- 
mon or coriander; bake quick." 

Breakfast food formulas — like the snakes of Ireland — are a minus 
quantity, for the cereal fad of this age is not foreshadowed even by a 
single mention of the word oatmeal. They probably substituted pie, 
for the breakfast pie habit still survives in parts of New England today 
— and possibly elsewhere. The pastry of the times must have been 
toothsome, and a great variety of meat, fruit and even vegetable pies 
and tarts was made, the crusts oftentimes being more elaborate than 
the filHng. There are a dozen or more receipts for making these 
"pastes." No. 9, royal paste, "excellent for tarts," was as follows: 

"Rub half a pound of butter into one pound of flour, four whites 
(of eggs) beaten to a foam, two ounces of fine sugar; roll often, rubbing 
one-third and rolling two-thirds of the butter is best." 

From the quantities of ingredients required to make No. 2, the 
receipt must have been for the Thanksgi\ing and Christmas batch of 
pies. " Rub six pounds of butter into fourteen pounds of flour, whites 
of eight eggs; add cold water and make a stiff paste." No. 8, "good 
for a chicken pie," was made with one and one-half pounds of suet to 
six of flour, and a spoonful of salt wet with cream; add two and a half 
pounds of butter to be rolled in, six or eight rollings in. 

A lemon tart required over two weeks to make. The receipt begins : 
"Take six large lemons, rub them well in salt, put them in salt and 
water and let them rest two days, change them daily in fresh water 
fourteen days." After being duly salted, and properly freshened, 
they were boiled two or three hours. Six pared, cored and quartered 
pippins were boiled in another gallipot until tender; to the lemon liquor 
was then added one half of the apple, with one pound sugar, and 
boiled fifteen minutes. After preparing the royal paste described 



1913] ^^^s. Richards as a Correspondent 161 

above, laid in shallow pans, a spoonful each of the combination and 
the remaining half of the apple was dropped in the pans brushed with 
melted butter; and after sifting on superfine sugar, baked in a gentle 
oven. 

An "Apple tart" was composed of stewed apples, Madeira wine, 
sugar, rose water, orange juice and cinnamon, baked in a plain waste. 
Doctor Wiley would doubtless consider the above a "blend" and mis- 
branded. 

The long List of puddings embraces bread, flour, rice, Indian, fruit 
puddings in variety, potato, carrot, squash, "pompkin," currant, 
orange and lemon, with several "plumb" pudding receipts. One of 
the last named is as follows: 

"Take half a loaf of bread, on which pour three pints boiling milk; 
when cold add six ounces of ground rice; mix the bread and rice to- 
gether with half a pound of plums, one pound of currants, four oimces 
of beef suet cut fine, eight eggs, half gill of rose water, one gill wine; 
lemon peel, sugar and nutmeg as may be agreeable." 

MRS. RICHARDS AS A CORRESPONDENT. 

We print the following letter, a copy of which has just been fur- 
nished us, as giving some idea of the breadth of Mrs. Richards' interests. 
Many, many such letters could be brought as e\ddence of her human 
sympathy and helpfulness. — Ed. 

January 21, 1904. 
My dear Mrs. , 

I have not been as unmindful of your kindness as my silence seemed to show. 
Our classes in my subject have been very large and the fact of not getting back 
until just as term opened has hampered me so that only this week when the term 
is over and the laboratory closed am I in a condition to clear up my desk and table. 
My office has been a den, and at home my own table is piled high. So many 
interests also beg for just a few minutes' time. The Public School Conference, 
the Household Aid Co., have taken many hours. The plan of sending out hot 
dinners, the bother of a retainer of the heat, and the opening of a new lunch room, 
the cafeteria, where one helps one's self, and the thousand and one other fads 
that this city is always going into, drag one into things in spite of all resolutions to 
the contrary. 

We have kept very well. We walk around the Pond [Jamaica Pond] 35 minutes 
every morning, and then have breakfast and go to our work. Professor's book 
is really out and we are so glad. He is now going over his notes for the class. His 
latest amusement is taking photographs before sunrise. The little time-book he 
goes by did not have data for this and so he is getting it. 



1 62 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

The Institute is busy and quiet, no great excitement about anything. "Shall 
we move?" still haunts us. I think of you when I get my luncheon, as I did today, 
at our little vegetarian restaurant here by the Back Bay Post Office, a very good 
little place, but I am sure to wish them open on Friday night. 

I am busy over the new editions of my textbook and the Cost of Living and with 
my research assistant who is writing the Economics of Consumption. 

I ran away to St. Louis the last of the year to the meeting of the American Asso- 
ciation for the Advancement of Science and to see about several other things. I 
came back by way of Chicago and the School of Education which is most interesting. 
I was caught in the cold snap and got into Boston at 3:15 a.m., with the ther- 
mometer several degrees below zero, at our house 16°. We were 6 hours late. I 
went across the street to the hotel, and as my family did not expect me until the 
morning no one worried. 

I was interested to see that in St. Louis where the average working man is thrifty 
French or German, the shop windows were not filled with the tempting display 
of marked down prices and bargains and trashy goods which our eastern cities 
have gone into. The store front has to be all plate glass and color and sparkle 
to tempt the passerby, implying that she is temptable. It is this element of tempta- 
tion which comes in so strongly in our economics. But I must not go on preaching. 

I have been so glad of all that you have sent me. I hope I have not neglected 
a question of yours. I am clearing up and your letter is for the moment mislaid 
but as I have had this envelope addressed for six weeks I am going to fill it now 
and send it on its way. Your children would have been amused if they had seen 
Professor and me this morning wading in 2 to 3-foot snow drifts for our morning 
walk. Now it is rainy but we have had much snow. 

Give our love to the children. I wish I could have seen them at work. 

Sincerely yours, 

Ellen H. Richards. 

ADMINISTRATION SECTION. ' 

A report on help employed in Mount Royal College, Calgary, 
Alberta, Canada, was secured by Miss M. Garrick, housekeeper at 
Mount Royal College, in which she compared their number of em- 
ployees with those in other colleges. The summary is as follows: 



Mount Royal College, Calgary 

Alberta College (ist hall) 

Alberta College (2nd hall) 

Brandon College, Manitoba 

McDonald Hall, Guelph, Ont 

Whitby Ladies College, Whitby, Ont. . 



BESIDENTS. 



97 
107 
116 

IIO 

140 



EMPLOYEES. 



15 
II 
10 
17 

IS 
20 



EMPLOYEES TO 
BESIDENTS. 



I to 6.3 

I to 9.7 

I to 1 1 . O 

I to 8.0 

I to 7.0 

I to 7.0 



* Notes from the discussion at the Administration Section, Lake Placid, June 
1912. 



1913] Administration Section 163 

In discussing facilities for keeping food hot a suggestion was made 
that trucks loaded with dishes might be run into hot closets built in 
the same manner as the laundry drying closets, and when the dishes 
are to be used the trucks could be taken into the kitchen or into the 
dining room. It was noted that the central kitchen plant with the 
delivery of hot food in trucks to the various buildings is common among 
certain hospitals; for example, the Institute for the Feeble-Minded at 
Faribault, Minnesota and the State Hospital at Kankakee, Illinois; 
also that the system of trucks for carrying hot food and dishes during 
the serving of meals is used at Holloway College, England. In one 
institution three-compartment vegetable dishes made of aluminum 
are found to facilitate service as well as to retain heat. 

The cleaning of silver in an institution is an important economic 
problem. The plan of placing silver in an aluminum pan containing 
a solution of common salt and soda was compared with the polishing 
of silver by hand; both the time element and the question of the com- 
parative wear and tear of the chemical action against that of the fric- 
tion of polishing were considered. 



EDITORIALS. 

Under this title the first publication for the Ellen H. Richards 
Memorial Fund is now published and for sale. It will be remem- 
bered that one of the activities of the Lake Placid 
The Syllabus Conference of Home Economics was the consideration 
of Home Eco- of the nomenclature of the subject, and the American 
nomics. Home Economics Association, which grew out of 

the Lake Placid Conference, continued its work in 
this as well as in other directions. 

At the Second Annual Meeting of the Association in 1910 a Com- 
mittee on Nomenclature was appointed; it began its work at once 
and has reported to the Association at intervals. It was the conclu- 
sion of the Committee that the name "Home Economics" is the most 
satisfactory name so far proposed for the subject as a whole, although 
other terms may better fit the course offered in some particular insti- 
tution. The definition later adopted by the Association is the fol- 
lowing: "Home Economics as a distinct subject of instruction is the 
study of the economic, sanitary and esthetic aspects of food, clothing 
and shelter as connected with their selection, preparation, and use by 
the family in the home or by other groups of people." 

In accordance with what seemed the best as well as the most general 
usage, the Committee proposed that the subject of Home Economics 
be divided into four main divisions, namely, (i) Food, (2) Clothing, 
(3) Shelter, and (4) Household and Institution Management, a pro- 
posal which received the approval of the Association. 

At the Fourth Annual Meeting of the Association, the Committee 
on Nomenclature was continued under the name " Committee on Home 
Economics Syllabus." in order that it might prepare a Syllabus of the 
general subject based on the definition and principal subdivisions 
mentioned above, which should bring together and group in logical 
order the topics to be included in an ideal course of instruction. The 
plan of arranging the material finally adopted subdivides each of the 
first three of the main divisions — Food, Clothing, and Shelter — into 
(i) Selection, (2) Preparation, and (3) Use; and the fourth main divi- 
sion — Household and Institution Management — into (i) Material 
Basis, (2) Social Contacts, Activities, and Functions, and (3) Aims and 

164 



1913] Editorials 165 

Results. These headings are further di\'ided and subdivided with 
reference to economic, scientific, sanitary, esthetic, and other aspects 
under a variety of headings. 

It is believed that persons familiar with the subject will find more 
advantages than disadvantages in the attempts at uniformity which 
have been made, and it is hoped that the teacher and student will 
overlook the occasional use of an unfamiliar word or of an old term 
given a meaning somewhat dift'erent from that usually attached to it 
since in many cases no term sufficiently broad or exact seemed to be 
in general use. 

In preparing the Syllabus much emphasis has been laid upon the 
theoretical, historical, and general aspects of the different topics and 
upon the relations of chemistry, physics, mathematics, biology, eco- 
nomics, esthetics, and engineering to the different subdivisions. This 
seems desirable since these topics often receive much less attention 
than they merit even in courses of instruction designed to have a cul- 
tural value. 

Use will undoubtedly show that there are numerous omissions, how- 
ever, it is expected that additions and changes will be made in subse- 
quent editions. As it stands, the Syllabus represents not an outline 
for a course of instruction but rather a classified list of topics from 
which cultural, technical, or vocational courses can be made up by 
the teacher whether the grade of instruction be primary, secondary 
or advanced. 

As brought together in this form an attempt that has never before 
been made, the subject is seen to be far-reaching in its scope, it leads 
the student along the paths of literature, art, and general culture 
and provides as well instruction along specific lines. The conclusion 
seems just that rightly combined with languages, literature and other 
long-established subjects, Home Economics can and does provide a 
well-rounded course of instruction of full cultural value and does not 
sacrifice anything essential to a broad education. Those who have 
given the subject most attention believe that in addition it has a 
special value in preparing directly for life and its problems. 

Mrs. Richards was particularly interested in the question of nomen- 
clature and classification of the subject of Home Economics and the 
Syllabus, and as now presented to teachers, students and others, for 
use and for criticism, appropriately appears as the first publication 
of the Fund which bears her name. 

In preparing the Syllabus, a number of teachers of Home Econo- 
mics and related subjects have been consulted and valuable sugges- 



1 66 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

tions have been received. The literature of the subject has also 
been carefully examined. 

The Richards Memorial Fund Committee reports that encourag- 
ing words keep coming in from every section of the country, and con- 
tributions from schools, colleges, and clubs continue 
The Richards to be received. Many could not have their Richards 
Memorial Fund Day celebrations in December and so the stories 
of recent celebrations of the day are still reported. 
This is as it should be. Let us all work away that the Memorial 
Fund may be a generous one and worthy of her whose name it bears! 
Home Economics Day will be celebrated December 3, 1913. Let 
every school and club take notice and begin to plan accordingly. A 
few Richards Calendars, we understand, can still be secured. 

We wish to call especial attention to two articles in this number, 
that of Dr. Barker "Management of Children Predisposed to Nerv- 
ousness," and that of Prof. Wm. A. McKeever "The 
A Note of New Child Labor Movement," because they sound 

Warning. a needed warning as yet hardly heard. In this day 

of sparing the child every pain and sorrow, of insist- 
ing first and foremost on a happy, untrammeled youth, we are facing 
a real danger, that needful training and discipline will not be started 
in time to affect character, to enable the individual to "endure hard- 
ness" in the words of St. Paul, and to meet the requirements of the 
world for self-control and that habit of application which is necessary 
to success in any field of action. 

The admirable laws that have been passed in many states to pre- 
vent the exploiting of children in industry have laid a new responsi- 
bility on home and school. The hours upon which untimely and 
exhausting labor must not encroach, offer an opportunity which 
should receive the most thoughtful attention of parents and educators. 

The chairman of the Housekeepers' Section of our Association, 
Mrs. Lynden Evans, has chosen her cooperating committees, and 

they are consulting as to the best method of starting 
Housekeep- their department in the Journal. Their plans will 
ers' Section, be presented at the June meeting of the American 

Home Economics Association and will be discussed 
and voted upon. The officers of the Association realize that if they 
start this department, they will have entered upon a very impor- 



19 13] Editorials 167 

tant phase of the work requiring careful deliberation, and no further 
decision can at present be announced. 

The papers presented at the Administration Section of the Ameri- 
can Home Economics Association in June, 19 12, and which have 

appeared in various issues of the Journal, have been 
Administra- bound together as reprints and are now on sale at fifty 
tion Section, cents (50 cents) per copy. The following is a list of 

these papers: 
]Marketing facilities and their relation to the cost of H\-ing, Edward 
Ewing Pratt; The laundry problem in New York City, Helen Wood- 
ford Pratt; School lunches and medical inspection, Ira S. Wile; Prac- 
tice fields in household and institutional management, Emma H. 
Gunther; A rational method in the practice field for students in 
dietary administration, Florence R. Corbett; The diet kitchen, Mabel 
C. Little; The housekeeper dietirian in the hospital field, Mary A. 
Lindsley; The cooperation of dietitian and physician, E. Grace Mc- 
Cullough; The relation of household administration to public utili- 
ties, Martha Bensley Bruere; Scientific management in the household, 
Frank B. Gilbreth; Report of the committee on uniform account- 
ing for institutions; Waste accounting systems and basic dietary 
ration tables, Charles S. Pitcher; General development and present 
status of the school feeding movement, Louise Stevens Bryant; The 
rural school warm lunch, ]VIary L. Bull; Report of the New York 
school lunch committee; Elementary school lunches under school 
department direction, Buffalo, N. Y., Mary E. L. Small; Some data 
regarding food supply and sale in a Men's Club, C. F. Langworthy; 
Commercial laundries in New York City, Wm. C. Rogers; Institution 
laundries; Penny lunches in Rochester, N. Y., AUce M. Hotchkin; 
Educational need and value of lunches in elementary schools; Wanted, 
a test for "Man Power," Ellen H. Richards. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF CURRENT LITERATURE. 

I. Foods and Cookery. 

The Pickling and Curing of Meat in Hot Weather. G. W. Carver, Alabama Tus- 
kegee Norm, and Indus. Inst., Tuskegee Expt. Sta. Bull. 24, 1912, pp. 22. 

Food in Syria. M. Labbe and J. Ziade, Bui. Soc. Sci. Hyg. Aliment, et Aliment. 
Rationn. Homme, i, 1911, no. 3-4, pp. 371-381; Expt. Sta. Rec, xxvii, 1912, 
No. 7, p. 665. 

How to Make Bread from Soft Wheat Flours. G. A. Olson, Washington Sta. 
Popular Bull. 47, pp. 4, fig. i. 

Cost of Living in Mexico and Preparation of Mexican Dishes. P. E. Holland 
and W. L. Bonney, Daily Cons, and Trade Rpts. (U. S.) xv, 191 2, no. 199, pp. 966- 
969. 

How Bread Becomes Stale. J. R. Katz, Pharm. Weekbl., xlix, 191 2, no. 27, pp. 
618-631; Abs. Expt. Sta. Rec, xxvii, 1912, no. 8, p. 764. 

Mince Meat and Mock Mince Meat. Ptire Products, viii, 191 2, no. 10, pp. 

555-557- 

Macaroni. L. Lodian, Amer. Miller, xl, 191 2, no. 10, pp. 786, 787. Description 
of macaronis made from beans, buckwheat, whole wheat, wheat and rice, rice, 
milk (casein), chestnuts, tree pith, and seaweed. 

Tropical Fruit Recipes and Confections. Effie S. Rolfs, Proc. Fla. Stale Hort. 
Soc, xxiv, 191 1, pp. 119-138. A collection of recipes for the preparation and use 
of tropical fruits, particularly those grown in Florida. 

Vinegar and Vinegar Laws. J. O. Jordan, Afo. Bull. Health Dept. Boston, 1, 
191 2, no. 3, pp. 57-59. The outUne of a proposed government law regulating the 
sale of vinegar. 

Nuts in the American Dietary. Josephine S. Evans, Amer. Fruit and Nut Jour., 
vi, 191 2, no. 98, p. 108. A summary and discussion of data. 

Analyses of Wheats and Flours and Barleys. J. C. Briinnich, Ann. Rpt. Dept. 
Agr. and Stock (Queensland), 1910-11, pp. 58-60. 

Cooking with Electricity. Ellen A. Huntington, Deseret Farmer, vii, no. 37, 
pp. 792, 793. 

Camp Cookery in the West. C. F. Saunders, Country Life Amer., xxii, 191 2, 
no. 3, pp. 51,52, figs. 6. Camp provisions and methods of camp cookery described 
and some recipes given. 

The Truth about Vinegar. H. P. Cassidy, Forecast, iv, 191 2, no. 4, pp. 137- 
139, figs. 2. Manufacture of low grade and imitation vinegars described. 

Technical Flour Analysis and Comparative Baking Test. O. J. Freed, Oper. 
Miller, xvii, 191 2, no. 7, pp. 467-469. 

Cooking Food in Paper. J. J. A. Parker, Popular Mechanics, xviii, 191 2, no. 
I, p. 148. 

Eighteenth Annual Report of the Dairy and jFood Commissioner of the State 
of Michigan for the Year ending June 30, 191 1. G. M. Dame, Ann. Rpt. Dairy 

168 



1913] Bibliography of Current Literature 169 

and Food Comr. Mich., xviii, 191 1, pp. 192. Legislation relating to the sale of 
adulterated candies, etc. 

Commercial Table Sirups and Molasses. W. Frear, Penn. Dept. Agr., Bui. 224, 
1912, pp. 97. 

The Net Weight or Volume of Food Products Which are Sold in Packages. J. 
P. Street, Connecticut State Sta. Bui. 172, pp. 35. 

A Study of the Enzj-ms of the Egg of the Common Fowl. Mary E. Pennington 
and H. C. Robertson, Jr., U. S. Dept. Agr., Bur. Chetn. Circ. 104, pp. 8. 

A Grain of WTieat. Prof. R. Chodal, Pop. Set. Monthly, January, Ixxxii, no. i, 

P-33- 

The Manufacture of Cheddar Cheese from Pasteurized Milk. J. L. Sammis 
and A. T. Bruhn, Wisconsin Expt. Sta. Research Bull. zy. 

Seventeenth Report on Food Products and Fifth Report on Drug Products. 
J. P. Street, Conn. Agr. Expt. Sta., pp. 95-208. 

Barley Transfomed into a Liquid Bread. Charles Cristadoro, Diet, and Hyg. 
Gaz., xxix, pp. 23-25. Food value of malt extract. 

The Milk Sediment Test and its Applications, Wisconsin Expt. Sta. Circ. Infor- 
mation 41, September, 191 2. 

What Can be Done with Dried (and Smoked) Fish — One Way to Meet the 
Increased Cost of Living. Ida C. B. Allen, Country Gentleman, Ixxvii, 191 2, no. 
49, PP- 15, 16, figs. 5. 

Large Values in Food at Low Cost — How to fix Beans so They will Take the 
Place of Meat. Dora B. Haines, Country Gentleman, Ixxvii, 1912, no. 49, p. 16. 

2, Nutrition. 

Contributions to the Physiology of the Stomach, I-IV. A. J. Carlson, Am. Jour. 
Physiol., December, January, February, xxxi, pp. 151-169; pp. 175-193; pp. 212- 
223; pp. 318-328. 

The Biochemical S>Tithesis of Fatty Acids from Carbohydrate. Ida Smedley, 
Jotir. Physiol., December, 191 2, xlv, pp. xxv-xxvii. 

Relative Economy, Composition and Nutritive Value of Various Cuts of Beef. 
L. D. Hall and A. D. Emmett, Illinois Expt. Sta. Bull. ijS. 

An Objective Method of Teaching Food Values and Food Requirements. Clif- 
ford B. Farr, Arch. Pediatrics, December, 1912, xxix, pp. 927-932. (cf. Arch. 
Pediat., February, 191 2, The Comparative Caloric Value of Various Foods.) 

Pyloric Obstruction, with a Comparative Study of the Normal Stomach of In- 
fants. G. R. Pisek and L. T. LeWald, Arch. Pediat., December, 1912, xxix, pp. 
gu-927. Radiographs of stomach. 

The Nutritive Value of the Proteins of Maize. T. B. Osborne, Science, January 
31, xxxvii, pp. 185-191. 

The Theory and Treatment of Diabetes. Carl Von Noorden, Am. Jour. Med. 
Sc, January, cxlv, pp. 1-17. 

The Regulation of Body Temperature in Extremes of Dry Heat. E. H. Hunt, 
Journ. Hygiene, December, 191 2, xii, pp. 479-489. 

Proceedings of the Section on Dietetic Hygiene and Hygienic Physiology of 
the 15th International Congress of Hygiene and Demography, with Abstracts of 
Some of the Papers. Biochem. Bull., September, 1912, ii, pp. 129-150. The Physi- 



170 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

ological Significance of some Substances used in the Preservation of Food, John H. 
Long; The Influence of the Ingestion of Food upon Metabolism, F. G. Benedict; The 
Influence of Foodstuffs and their Cleavage Products upon Heat Production, Gra- 
ham Lusk; Nutrition and Bone Growth, F. H. McCrudden; The R6le of Proteins 
in Growth, L. B. Mendel; Recent American Work on the Nutritive Value and Cost 
of Food, C. F. Langworthy, etc. 

Nutrient Possibilities of the Potato. Editorial, Jour. Am. Med. Assn., January 
II, Ix, 128 (cf. M. Hindhede, Ztschr. diatet. u. physik. Thera. 1912, xvi). 

Some Experiments on the Relative Digestibility of White and Whole Wheat 
Bread. Newman, Robinson, Halman and Neville, Jour. Hyg., 191 2, xii, p. 119. 

Diet in Heart Disease. Jour. Am. Med. Assn., January 4, Ix, p. 49. 

The Influence of Fats on the Action of Narcotics. Editorial, Jour. Am. Med. 
Assn., January 4, Ix, p. 56. 

The Ferments of the Pancreas, Part I. The Generation of Trypsin from Tryp- 
sinogin by Enterokinase. J. Mellanby and V. J. WooUey, Jour. Physiol., Decem- 
ber, 191 2, xlv, pp. 370-389. 

The Influence of Standing or Lying upon the Metabolism of Cattle. Henry 
Prentiss Armsby, Am. Jour. Physiol., January, xxxii, pp. 245-253. 

The Influence of Alcohol upon Reflex Actions in the Frog. Ida H. Hyde, Ruth 
Spray and Irene Howat, Am. Jour. Physiol., February xxxi, pp. 309-381. 

The Rdle of Membranes in Cell Processes. Prof. Ralph S. Lillie, Pop. Set. 
Monthly, February, 1913, Ixxxii, no. 2, p. 132. 

The Influence of Caffeine on Mental and Motor Efficiency. H. L. HoUingworth, 
Arch. Psychol., April, 191 2, no. 22 (Columbia Contributions to Philosophy and Psy- 
chology, XX, no. 4, pp. 166). 

The Action of Gastric Juice on Zein and Gliadin, II. S. Baglioni, Atti. R. 
Accad. Lincei, Rend, CI. Sci. Fis.,Mat. e Nat., 5, ser. 19, 1910, 1, no. 8, pp. 512-517; 
abs. in Ztschr. Untersuch. Nahr. u. Genussmtl., xxiii, 191 2, no. 12, p. 696; Exper. 
Sia. Rec. 28, 1913, no. i, p. 66. 

Bob Veal and the Public. P. A. Fish, Amer. Vet. Rev., xli, 191 2, no. 2, pp. 178- 
185. Bob veal compared with market veal and with beef in respect to freezing 
point, specific gravity, percentage of water. Dietetic tests also made. 

The Antineuritic bases of Vegetable Origin in Relationship to Beri-beri, With a 
Method of Isolation of Torulin the Antineuritic Base of Yeast. E. S. Edie, et 
al., Bio-Chem. Jour, vi, 1912, no. 3, pp. 234-242. 

Effects of Fruit Juices on Metabolism. T. Laurenti, Policlin., Set. Med., no. 
13, pp. 525-568; Jour. Amer. Med. Assoc, Ixiii, 1912, no. 6, p. 452. 

Some Fundamental Principles in Studying Infant Metabolism. F. G. Benedict 
and F. B. Talbot, Amer. Jour. Diseases Children, iv, 191 2, 3, pp. 129-136, figs. 4. 

Concerning the Physiological Effect of Chicory Infusion. J. Paechtner, Ztschr. 
Untersuhc. Nahr. u. Genussmtl., xxiii, 191 2, no. 6, pp. 241-250, dgms. 6; Abs. Expt. 
Sta. Rec, xxvii, 1912, no. 9, p. 868. 

Idiosyncrasy and Anaphylaxis. Medical Review of Reviews, xviii, 191 2, no. 6, 
pp. 366-367. Idiosyncrasies with respect to different articles of diet may be 
attributable to hyper-susceptibihty to the toxic action of protein or other material. 

Feeding Children for Efficiency. W. S. Cornell, Forecast, iv, 191 2, no. 4, pp. 
125-128, figs. 2. 



1913] Bibliography of Current Literature 171 

3. Hygiene and Sanitation. 

Health Department and Housing. Charles B. Ball, Am. Jour. Pub. Health, 
Januar>', n. ser. iii, pp. i-ii. 

Room Over-crowding and the Lodger Evil. Lawrence Veiller, Am. Jour. Pub. 
Health, January, n. ser. iii, pp. 11-24. 

The Common House Roach as a Carrier of Disease. R. C. Longfellow, Am. 
Jour. Pub. Health, Januar>% n. ser. iii, pp. 58-62. 

The Bacteriological Examination of Foods with Special Reference to gelatine. 
S. C. Prescott and C. A. Magoon, Am. Jour. Pub. Health, January, n. ser. iii, pp. 
62-67. 

Progress Report of Committee on Standard Methods for the Examination of 
Air. Am. Jour. Pub. Health, January, n. ser. iii, pp. 78-87. 

Insect Porters of Bacterial Infection. Charles J. Martin, Lancet, January, 
clxxxiv, 1-15; pp. 81-89. 

Hygiene for the Normal Child. Ira S. Wile, Med. Rec, February, Ixxxiii, pp. 
199-202. 

City Smoke Ordinances and Smoke Abatement. S. B. Flogg, U. S. Dept. 
Interior, Bur. Mines, Bull. 4g. 

Household Bacteriology. Martha Van Rensselaer, Cornell Reading Courses, 
January, ii, no. 31. 

Sewage Disposal for Rural Homes. Florida Health Notes, December, 191 2, vii, 
no. 12. 

Special Plague Number. Florida Health Notes, August, 191 2, vii, no. 8. 

A Further Study of the Ventilation of Sleeping Cars (The Steel Car). T. R. 
Crowder, Arch. Intern. Med., January 15, xi, 66-84 (cf. Arch. Intern. Med., 1911, 
vii, p. 85). 

Hygiene and Sanitation of Summer Camps. Geo. L. Meylan, Am. Phys. Ed., 
December, .xvii, p. 692-697. 

Experiments on Insect Transmission of the Virus of Pohomyehtis. C. W. How- 
ard and P. F. Clark, Jour. Exper. Med., 191 2, xvi, p. 850. 

The Prevention of Infection of the Respiratory Tract in the Schools. Wm. 
Chas. White, Bull. Amer. Acad. Med., xiii, no. 6. 

Occupational Diseases. E. E. Pratt, Prel. Rpt. N. Y . Stale Factory Invest. Com., 
I, 1912, pp. 365-569, pis. 41. 

The Eradication of the Social Diseases in Large Cities. Robt. N. Wilson, Bull. 
Mass. State Board of Health, November, 191 2. 

Vegetables and Typhoid Fever. Brit. Food Jour., xiv, no. 161, p. 83, 1912. 

The Protection and Storage of Food in the Home. Miss F. I. Lansdown, Jour. 
Roy. Sanit. Inst., xxxiii, 1913, no. 12, pp. 633-636. 

The Food Problem in the Home Treatment of Consumption. Marion Fitz- 
gerald, Jour. Roy. Sanit. Inst., xxxiii, 1913, no. 12, pp. 637, 638. 

Notes on an Industrial Survey of a Selected Area in New York City with Respect 
to Sanitary Conditions in the Factories. PauHne Goldmark, Prel. Rpt. N. Y. State 
Factory Invest. Com., 1, 191 2, pp. 301-363, pis. 14, 

Decomposition and its Microscopical Detection in Some Food Products. B. J. 
Howard, U. S. Dept. Agr. Yearbook, 191 1, pp. 297-308, pis. 5. 

The Disposal of Municipal Wastes in Small Cities and Villages. R. F, MacDow- 
ell, Bull. Ohio State Board of Health, November, 1912. 



172 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

Sewage-Polluted Oysters as a Cause of Typhoid and Other Gastro-Intestinal 
Disturbances — A Study of an Epidemic and of Certain Individual Cases. G. W. 
Stiles, U. S. Dept. Agr., Bur. Chem. Bull. 156, pp. 44, pis. 4, figs. 7. 

School Disinfection. Editorial, Bull. Ind. State Board of Health, December, 191 2. 

Dental Hygiene — Its Real Significance. Bull, Ind. State Board oj Health. No- 
vember, 191 2. 

The Bacteria of Bad Business. The Matter with the Milk Man — A Study of 
Rochester's Milk Supply. Dr. John R. Williams, Worlds Work, February xxv, 
no. 4, p. 443. 

Sanitation of Bakeries and Restaurant Kitchens. C. B. Ball, Jour. Amer. Pub. 
Health Assoc, i, 191 1, no. 2, pp. 102-108. 

4. Textiles and Furnishings. 

Rooms in Paper — Problems in Construction and Design, III. Nama A. Lathe 
and Esther Szold, Man. Tr. Mag., June, pp. 431-449. 

Clothing in its Relation to Health. Ralph Oakley Clock, Diet, and Hyg. Gaz., 
January, xxix, pp. 7-12. 

Color Harmony. Lita G. A. Woodfall, House Beautiful, Januarj^, p. 40. 

Winter Draperies. Mary W. Mount, House Beautiful, January, pp. 41-42. 

Dyeing of Artificial Silks for Woolen and Worsted Fabrics. Louis J. Matos, 
Posselt's Textile Jour., January, xii, pp. 20-22. Discussion of merits of artificial 
silk. See also, p. 24. 

Jacquard Designing. PosseWs Textile Jour., January xii, 1-5, illus. 

Construction of Loop Fabrics. Posselt's Textile Jour., December, 191 2, x; Jan- 
uary, 1913, xii, pp, 27-29, illus. 

Specialization in the Woolen and Worsted Industry. L. D. H. Weld, Quart. 
Jour. Econ., November, 191 2, xxvii, pp. 67-95. 

Color Scales — What We May Expect of Them; How We Can Get It. George 
W. Eggers, School-Arts Mag., January, xii, pp. 339-343. 

Picture Framing and Hanging. Mabel J. Chase, School- Arts Mag., January, 
xii, p. 331- 

Craftsman Designs for Stenciling Simple House Furnishings. Craftsman, Jan- 
uary, xxiii, pp. 469-474. 

The Wool in your Clothing. Samuel S. Dale, Good Housekeeping, February, pp. 
220-227. 

5. Education and Social Work. 

Some Considerations Regarding the Factor of Fatigue, with Reference to Indus- 
trial Conditions. Wm. A. WTiite, Am. Jour. Med. Sc, February, cxlv, pp. 219-225. 

Child Labor in 191 2. Child Labor Bull., November, 191 2, i, pp. 1-83, illus. 
Special Articles on Child Workers in New York Tenements. 

Teaching of Domestic Hygiene in Elementary Schools. Mrs. F. L. Mather, 
Jour. Roy. Sanitary Inst., January xxxiii, pp. 618-625. 

Teaching of Domestic Economy in Secondary Schools. D. E. Crick, Jour. 
Royal Sanitary Inst., January, xxxiii, pp. 611-617. 

Pros and Cons of Domestic Service. Lady de Braken, Nat. Rev. (London), 
November, 191 2, pp. 452-461. 

The Sociological Influence of Teachers of Domestic Subjects. Mrs. M. A. Clou- 
desley Brereton, Jour. Roy. Sanitary Inst., January, xxxiii, pp. 626-632. 



1913] Bibliography of Current Literature 173 

Does Vocational Training Fail to Build Character, or Create a Conscious Citi- 
zenship? A Study in Education. Raymond Riordon, Craftsman, January, xiiii, 
pp. 449-553- 

The Intercollegiate Bureau of Occupations. Frances Cummings, Woman's Inter. 
Rev., December, 191 2, i, no. i. 

Furnishing a Practice House. Isabel Ely Lord, Woman's Inter. Rev., Decem- 
ber, 1912, i, no. I. 

Vocational Training for Women. Arthur Dean, Woman's Inter. Rev., Decem- 
ber, 191 2, i, no. I. 

Industrial Education. .Angeline Loesch Graves, The Public, xvi, no. 775. 

Practical Arts and Vocational Guidance. C. A. Prosser, Manual Training Mr"., 
xiv, no. 3, Februarj", 1913. 

Democracy and Education. Alexander Fichandler, The Public, xvi, no. 775. 

Women Workers in Factories in New York State. Violet Pike, Pre/. Rpt. N. 
Y. State Factory Invest. Com., i, 1912, pp. 269-399. 

Home Work in the Tenement Houses of New York City. 0. R. Lovejoy, Eliz- 
abeth C. Watson and Lilhan D. Wald, Prel. Rpt. N. Y. State Factory Invest. Com., 
I, 1912, pp. 571-784, pis. 29. 

Report of Committee on Markets. Amy A. Bradley, Women's Municipal League, 
Boston, Bull. J, 191 2, no. 5, pp. 24-26. Survey work with reference to market 
conditions in Boston. 

6. Miscellaneous. 

Water Power for the Farm and Country Home. D. R. Cooper, New York State 
Water Supply Com., 191 1, pp. 45, figs. 30. 

Robbing the Housewife by Means of Short Weights and Measures. J. L. Walsh, 
Forecast, iv, 191 2, no. 4, pp. 140-143, fig. 30. 

Regulation Regarding Tinning of Culinary Utensils. A. Gautier, Sec. Cong. 
Internat. Hyg. Aliment, Bruxelles Proc, i, 1910, sect. 3, pp. 57-62; Bull. Soc. Set. 
Hyg. Aliment, et Aliment. Rationn. Homme, i, 1911, no. 1-2, pp. 188-193; Abs. 
Expt. Sta. Record, xxvii, 191 2, no. 8, p. 767. 

Kitchens and Laundries — their Planning, Arrangement, Equipment, and Sani- 
tation. W. P. Gerhard, Dom. Engin., Philadelphia, Ed., xlvii, 1909, nos. 3, pp. 
62-69, figs. 16; 7, pp. 182-184, fig. i; Eastern Edition, I, 1910, no. 3, pp. 61-66, 
figs. 10; liii, 1910, nos. 2, pp. 35-39, figs. 5; 3, pp. 63-66, figs. 11; 9, pp. 221-225, 
figs. 11; liv, 1911, nos. 3, pp. 54-58, figs. 10; 7, pp. 178, 179; 8, pp. 207-210, figs. 7. 

The Uses of Peat for Fuel and Other Purposes. C. A. Davis, U. S. Dept. 
Interior, Bur. Mines, Bull. 16. 

Cost of Food. Flora Rose, Cornell Reading Courses, December, 191 2, ii, no. 29. 

The Analysis of Soap Powders, J. J. Polak, Chem. Abs., September 10, xi, 2553 
(cf. Chem. Werkblad., ix, pp. 470-472). 

Extravagance as a Virtue. Prof. Simon N. Patten, Current Opinion, January, 

P- 51- 

Comparative Measurements of the Changing Cost of Living. J. Pease Norton, 
Science, January 31, xxxvii, pp. 159-170. 

The Gospel of the New Housekeeping — How to Enjoy Life on the Budget Plan. 
Helen Louise Johnson, Harper's Bazar, January, p. 17. 

Some Problems in Market Distribution. A. W. Shaw, Quart. Jour. Econ., Au- 
gust, 191 2, xxvi, pp. 703-766. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE. 

Any books or periodicals mentioned in this department may be obtained througti 
the Journal of Home Economics at the publisher's price. 

A Laboratory Manual of Dietetics. By Mary Swartz Rose, Ph.D. Assistant 
Professor, Department of Nutrition, Teacher's College, Columbia University. 
The Macmillan Company, New York, 1912. Cloth, 12 mo., pp. viii,i27. $1 . 10 
net. 

In the preparation of this laboratory manual of dietetics the author has undertaken 
a unique piece of work, and has carried it out in a way that promises very satis- 
factory results. The work should meet with a hearty welcome from teachers of 
dietetics who have, in the unsettled state of the science, been forced to grope their 
way more or less in the laboratory. This book, being the direct result of Dr. 
Rose's experience in teaching dietetics, has much practical value, either as a manual 
to be placed in the hands of students, or as a reference book containing many help- 
ful ideas for the teacher who prefers to present her own scheme of laboratory 
instruction to her classes. 

In the preface the author states the three-fold purpose of the book: First, to 
explain the problems involved in the calculation of food values and food require- 
ments; second, to explain the construction of dietaries; third, to furnish reference 
tables which will minimize the labor involved in such work without limiting dietary 
study to a few food materials. 

This three-fold purpose is well carried out in the three parts into which the 
book is divided. 

Part I, pages i to 16, "Food Values and Food Requirements," is a brief dis- 
cussion of (a) The composition of food materials, by elements and by food prin- 
ciples; (b) The function of food, food being considered as a source of energy, as 
a building material, as a regulator of body processes; (c) The food requirement, 
which is considered first from the standpoint of the total energy requirement at 
different periods of life, and second from the standpoint of providing a balanced 
diet. This discussion of the food requirement is emphasized by various tables of 
scientific standards such as, Symond's tables of height and weight of men and of 
women at different ages; Von Noorden's allowance per kilogram; Atwater and 
Benedict's hourly factors; Atwater's estimate according to degree of muscular 
activity; Tigerstedt's estimate according to occupation; Average energy require- 
ment of children per kilogram of body weight; Average weights and heights ot 
children at different ages; Von Noorden's reductions in energy requirements in old 
age. 

Part II, pages 17 to 70, "Problems in Dietary Calculation," presents in concise 
form the solutions of twelve typical dietetics problems, as follows: 

I, Studies in weight, measure and cost of some common food materials; II, 
Relation between percentage composition and weight; III, Calculation of the 



1913] Books and Literature 175 

fuel value of any given weight of food materials; IV, Calculation of the weight 
of a Standard or loo-calorie portion; V, Food value of a combination of food mater- 
ials; VI, Distribution of foodstuffs in a standard portion of a single food material; 
VII, Calculation of a standard portion of a combination of food materials; VIII, 
Analysis of a recipe; IX, Modification of cow's milk to a required formula; X, Cal- 
culation of the percentage composition of a food mixture; XI, The calculation of 
a complete dietarj'; XII, Scoring of the dietary. 

In Problem I, the student, considering a given food, is taught to differentiate 
between the fuel values of the gram, the ounce, the pound; to compare the bulk ot 
a loo-calorie portion with its weight in grams and ounces; to determine the fuel value 
of the market units, i.e ., quart, package, etc. In connection with the shoye total 
fuel values of the various units of the food under consideration, tht fractional fuel 
values due to each food principle are emphasized. Table XIII, containing the 
above data in part, regarding 158 foods, and containing blank spaces to be filled 
in wath the results of the student's own deductions, presents an exceedingly val- 
uable piece of work. Table XIX, containing data for 332 foods similar to that 
in Table XII, should be mentioned in this connection. Problems II, III, IV and 
VI have to do with a single food material, and in all these cases the application is 
made to milk as a typQ; while Problems V, VII, VIII, are concerned with com- 
binations of food materials, the appHcation being made to a one-egg cake. Prob- 
lem IX explains the method of preparing modified milk, while problem X is an 
extension of problem V. In Problem XI the student is taught the intricacies of 
working out a complete dietary according to a proposed standard. Finally an 
interesting dietar>^ score-card is proposed in Problem XII. 

In Part III, pages 71 to 115, seven valuable "Reference Tables" arepresented as 
follows: XV, Refuse in food materials; XVI, Conversion tables — grams to ounces; 
XVII, Conversion tables — ounces to grams; XVIII, Conversion tables — pounds 
to grams; XIX, Food values in terms of standard units of weight; XX, Ash con- 
stituents in percentages of the edible portion; XXI, Ash constituents in standard 
loo-calorie portions. 

Tables XX and XXI are reprints from Dr. Sherman's "Chemistry of Food and 
Nutrition." 

The appendix, pages 116 to 120, containing a plan of a dietetics laboratory to- 
gether with classified lists of equipment, is a valuable part of this book. 

Undoubtedly, not all teachers would present the laboratory work and problems 
of dietetics from the point of view of the author, but the methods indicated are very 
suggestive and the tables in connection with Problem I seem to the writer partic- 
ularly valuable. The general division of the points in the Dietary Score-Card 
could well serve with advanced students as a basis of discussion from which each 
might evolve an original score-card. 

Finally, although any teacher is bound to work out her own methods of instruc- 
tion in class room or laboratory, yet Dr. Rose has rendered a distinct service to 
the teaching of dietetics in presenting her own very suggestive plan of laboratory 
instruction. Also she has provided the teacher of dietetics with an exceedingly 
valuable reference book in small compass. The usefulness of the book would be 
further increased by the addition of a complete bibliography. 



176 The Journal oj Home Economics [April 

Manual of Personal Hygiene. Edited by W. S. Pyle. W. B. Saunders Com- 
pany. Philadelphia. $1.00. Fifth edition, revised and enlarged 191 2. 
The demand for a fifth edition within twelve years of first publication is sufficient 
recommendation for this book of hygiene. Most important of the differences be- 
tween this latest and the fourth edition is the addition of a chapter on "Food 
Adulteration and Deterioration," by Dr. Harvey W. Wiley. Although this dis- 
cussion of pure food is very important and excellent, it and a large part of the 
previously added chapter on "Domestic Hygiene" reach quite beyond the com- 
monly accepted limits of personal hygiene. It is true that the authors of these 
two chapters that have been added to the original book have worded them so as 
to make more or less of a personal appeal; but so might almost all sanitation and 
bacteriology be presented. The field of hygiene is too vast for any satisfactory 
presentation of general hygiene from the personal point of view; and it seems to 
the writer of this review that a manual of personal hygiene is most useful if it is 
limited to the rules for healthful living which each individual may apply to him- 
self, leaving to books on public hygiene or sanitation such problems as those of 
pure food and quarantine, which require collective, communistic, and especially 
legal control. This is not a condemnation of the excellent book under consideration, 
but simply a regret that it has been expanded beyond its original and logical scope 
by inadequately extending into the enormous field of public hygiene. 

The Principles of Organic Chemistry. By James F. Norris, Ph.D., Professor 
of Chemistry in Simmons College. McGraw-Hill Book Company, New York, 
191 2. Pp. XV, 579. $2.50. 

This text bears evidence to the wide experience of the writer in teaching the ele- 
ments of organic chemistry to beginners in the subject. He has been unusually 
successful in bringing the fundamental principles of the science into sharp relief 
without sacrificing unduly the detailed consideration of compounds of practical 
importance. Although the subject is developed on broad, general lines, the author 
seems to have borne in mind, more than is customary in texts on pure organic 
chemistry, the needs of students whose major interest in the subject lies in its 
application to physiology and nutrition. The comparatively full treatment of 
fats, carbohydrates, and proteins makes the book well adapted for use in courses 
on organic chemistry for students of household economics. 

The Hygiene of Exercise. By Anna Leonard Muzzey, Instructor, Sargent 
School of Physical Education. Published by the Health-Education League, 8 
Beacon Street, Boston. 5 cents per copy. 

This is number 26 in the series of the Health Education League booklets. As 
in the previous publications of this League much valuable information and advice 
are given in this small pamphlet of 18 pages, and the facts are presented in a way 
to be remembered. No attempt is made to go into a detailed discussion of exer- 
cise, but the reasons for the need of such exercise, its influence upon and benefits 
to both mind and body are briefly and clearly stated. A part of the book is devoted 
to practical suggestions for the average man and woman in regard to hygienic 
exercise, and those activities possible to the average person, such as walking, are 
emphasized. 



1913] Books and Literature 177 

Household Science and Arts. By Josephine Morris, Supervisor of Household 
Science and Arts in the Boston Public Schools. American Book Company, 
New York, 1912, pp. 224. $0.60. 

This book which is written by a teacher of experience primarily for teachers, 
contains in addition to general directions for conducting cooking classes, about 
330 well-formulated recipes presented in good literary form. It does what every 
elementary text book of the kind should do — places more emphasis upon carefully 
supervised practice than upon precept and theor>-, as a means of leading pupils to 
habits of cleanliness, to good taste in serving food, and to good table manners. 
As the author says in the preface: "While children may understand a full statement 
of what they ought to do and of what they ought to avoid, good kitchen habits cav 
be secured only by the teacher's persistent demand for the ideal." The book, besides 
promising to be helpful to teachers, is one which pupils, even those of small means 
may well be encouraged to buy and to take home, for it contains in concise and 
convenient form directions for preparing most of the dishes that constitute a diet 
of rational simplicity and variety. 

Basic Principles of Domestic Science. By Lilla Frich. Muncie Normal 

Institute, Muncie, Indiana. Si. 50. 

A series of seventy-two consecutive lessons in cooker>' and related theory, divided 
into four semesters. It is suggestive in the variety of dishes mentioned in the 
practical part of each lesson as an application of basic principles. At times the 
relation of theory to practice is rather remote, and fails to fulfill the promise in 
the "Foreword" that "each lesson includes a page presenting the theory and a 
page outlining the practice, illustrating the principle involved." On the other 
hand, many essential points in theory cannot be paralleled by closely related 
practical work, and the author has succeeded in keeping a fair balance, a logical 
sequence and a systematic grading in manipulation. The individual recipes 
given at the close of the data for each semester are helpful, and the illustrations 
suggestive. The scientific data is not selected from the most recent govern- 
ent work and dietaries, but the material used is reproduced correctly. The book 
is equipped with a thorough index and several blank pages at the end of the work 
for each semester. It shows careful selection of material from many sources 
adapted to the demands of the class and the subject, but it leaves entirely to the 
reader the opportunity to incorporate in the lessons the outside interests which 
must form a part of every well-rounded domestic science lesson. 

Lessons in Elementary Cooking. Mary C. Jones, Teacher of Cooking in the 
Public Schools of Brookline, Mass. Boston Cooking-School Magazine Com- 
pany. Boston, 191 2, pp. VI, 266. $1.00. By mail $1.08. 
A text-book admirably suited for its purpose so far as literary style and manner 
of presentation of the subject are concerned. It is attractively illustrated, its 
recipes are skillfully selected, and it artfully introduces valuable lessons other than 
those directly involved in the subject of cookery. It treats, for example, of the 
avoidance of danger from fire, the obligation of picnic parties to leave grounds in 
good condition, and the duty of economizing food materials. There are some inade- 
quate or misleading statements which have evidently been overlooked in proof- 



1^8 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

reading and revision. On page i6, for example, fat is described as a fuel food, 
starch as a source of energy, and the proteids as tissue builders only. 

Common Sense Care of Babies. By Mary Busby Austin. Indianapolis. $0.50. 

This small book is indeed full of practical suggestions to the mother. The 
importance of cleanliness, of fresh air and good simple food for the mother is given 
proper prominence and the use of drugs discouraged. 

The care of the child is explained with excellent sense and thoroughness. But 
the adherence to the two-hour period between feedings for the first six weeks and 
the regular use of cream and top milk for normal children show that the author 
belongs to the older school of pediatrics. 

The Child's Day. By Woods Hutchinson. Houghton MiflBin Company, New 

York. $0.40. 

Here is a book addressed to the young boy and girl under twelve, it would seem, 
to judge from the style and the illustrations. It would be interesting to know 
whether such books which seem to the older mind so clear as to statement and so 
attractive in style are really read and enjoyed by those for whom they are intended. 
The function of the skin, the processes of digestion, the care of the teeth, the im- 
portance of exercise and fresh air and sufficient sleep are all treated and amply 
illustrated. 

The book closes with an excellent supplement made up of questions and answers 
on the contents of the book. 

The Family in Its Sociological Aspects. By James Quayle Dealey, Ph.D. 
Professor of Social and PoUtical Science in Brown University. Houghton 
Mifflin Company, Boston, 1912. Pp. 137. $0.75. 

This little book makes no claim to being an exhaustive study of any aspect 
of the family. It is rather a confession of the faith of one sociologist in "the 
essential integrity of the American family" and of his belief that "there is a trend 
toward a highly ethical monogamous marriage." The confession is prefaced by 
an historical sketch of the family and of the institution of marriage, which is brief 
but is given in enough detail to show where the foundations of the writer's optimism 
lie and is followed by a well selected list of reference books. That there are "social 
conditions and forces which are so retarding the progress of the modern family 
that it would be comparatively easy to depict the situation so black that only 
pessimistic conclusions could be drawn" is not denied. "Sexual vices and diseases 
seem to be sapping the physique of the race and destro3'ing mutual confidence 
and love in the domestic circle. 'Race suicide' and an alarming increase in the 
divorce rate seem to be closely aUied factors in weakening the sanctity of home ties. 
The demand for the labor of women and children in poorly paid industries is ominous 
for racial vigor, and the crowded condition of modern urban environment weakens 
the ties of kinship and makes impossible the close domestic circle of homely fellow- 
ship." 

Yet the author sees a way out of the difficulty and that, fortunately, by a path 
which leads, not backward, but forward. He does not say, even by implication, 
that "woman's place is the home" nor that higher education is disqualifying women 
for family duties. On the other hand he looks with favor upon the growing inde- 
pendence of women for he believes it to be "important that women, unhampered 



1913] Books and Literature 179 

by economic considerations, be allowed the determining voice in deciding who 
shall be the fathers of their children, in order to insure a free choice among those 
who are most vigorous physically, morally, and mentally." 

" From the sociological standpoint the mere teaching or preaching of great prin- 
ciples makes little impression on most people unless they are living under condi- 
tions favorable to these principles." That conditions are growing more favorable to 
the attainment of a high ideal of family life is the conclusion reached. "Educa- 
tion is losing its artificial character and is once more seeking to ally itself with 

the home It looks forward to the maturer life of its students and 

seeks to prepare them for civic and economic usefulness and domestic responsi- 
bilities. It trains them in personal hygiene, in sex morals, in the recognition of 
duty to state and society, and aims so to refine their personalities as to eliminate 
imconsciously the bestial elements derived from a lower civilization." The con- 
spiracy of silence among church, school and home, with reference to prostitution 
and kindred evils, is being broken up. Righteous warfare is being waged against 
low wages which force undue postponement of marriage, against rapacious land- 
lordism, against the exploitation of children in industry, and against those indus- 
tries which "in their eagerness to produce results lose sight of the human element 
and fail to safeguard the life, health and morals of their employees." "In fact, 
throughout the entire social body associations innumerable are rising up, each 
agitated about some particular aspect of the social problem, but all unitedly filled 
with the belief that society must not rest satisfied with present conditions." 

Students of home economics should read this book, which can hardly fail to 
show them that behirid the bewildering array of modern movements, reforms, and 
associations which are making so great a demand upon the sympathies of conscien- 
tious people, as to threaten them with what Dr. Crothers has called "moral bank- 
ruptcy," there are constructive forces at work which bid fair to create nobler fami- 
lies and to build better homes. 

Woman at Work. By M. MostjTi Bird. Chapman and Hall, London. 1911. 
257 pages. $1.25. 

An introductory discussion as to the position of women workers outside the home 
is good, and there follows a presentation in attractive style of the present oppor- 
timities open to English young women in manufacture, distribution, service, the 
arts, and philanthropy. The book will hold the attention of any young woman 
interested in the problems of choosing a vocation, and is the sort of reading 
to put in such a person's hands. Supplementing Perkins' "Vocations for the 
Trained Woman" it would help any American girl to find herself. The contrasts 
ofiFered by English conditions (see the section on the bar-maid, there are 27,000 
of them in England) being particularly stimulating to one vis-a-vis with the choice 
of vocation. 

The United Irishwomen, Their Place, Work and Ideals. By Horace Plunk- 

ett, Ellice Pilkington and George Russell, with a preface by the Reverend T. 

A. Finlay. Maunsel and Company, Dublin, 96 Middle Abbey Street, 1911. 

Pp. 50. 6d. (12 cents). 

This booklet of fifty pages will bring an inspiration to every home economics 
worker who has any conception at all of the national problem which the home 



i8o The Journal of Home Economics [April 

economics movement is facing. It ought to give our rural workers especially, 
courage to know that the women of Ireland are organizing for the improvement 
of country life. Cooperative societies, supplementary households, industries as 
poultry and bee keeping, market gardens, weaving, lace making, village improve- 
ment societies, progress in home economics itself, are all being sought out eagerly. 

Economic Results of Cold Storage. By James Wilson. U. S. Department, 
Agricultural Reports. Government Document, 191 1. 

A special investigation was undertaken by the Department of Agriculture in 
which detailed information regarding the cold storage industry was collected by 
means of schedules submitted to the cold storage warehousemen, and prices were 
compiled from the literature of the subject for the last thirty years, with the 
special object of securing data regarding fluctuations in price before cold stor- 
age existed or was of considerable importance, and comparing such data with 
fluctuations in recent years during which the business has grown to large pro- 
portions. 

On the basis of the information collected, such questions are considered as the 
length of time commodities remain in storage, the principal months when they are 
received, the percentage held for longer than a year, the average length and the 
costs of storage, the tendency to uniformity of prices throughout the year, specu- 
lation, and stored goods as a percentage of consumption. 

As regards delivery, "The important observation to be made is that the receipts 
into cold storage are entirely or very nearly exhausted by the deliveries within 
ten months." 

With respect to costs of storage, "It is evident that as the time of storage length- 
ens, the costs and their percentage of the wholesale price must be multiplied by the 
number of months. If the storage is for fifteen months, for instance, the cost 
per pound ranges from 5.273 cents for fresh mutton to 8.572 cents for butter, and 
is 8.898 cents per dozen for eggs; the costs for fifteen months range from 36.5 per 
cent of the wholesale price in the case of butter to 57.5 per cent in the case of 
fresh mutton. 

"Approximately the wholesale prices of the commodities mentioned are increased 
by cold storage to the extent of the percentages just given" 

Cold storage has influenced considerably the relative monthly consumption of 
commodities and has made it more even throughout the year. 

"There has also been a change in relative monthly prices, due to cold storage. 
In the case of eggs the relative price has increased in the season of natural plenty 
and diminished in the period of natural scarcity." .... 

"In the cases of both butter and eggs the annual price level has been raised by 
cold storage, for a reason apart from the costs." 

With respect to the tendency to uniform prices throughout the year, an exami- 
nation of the data collected regarding the range of prices "substantially indorses 
the other process, in pronouncing in favor of a tendency toward uniformity of 
prices with regard to butter, eggs, poultry, and fresh mutton, and of a tendency 
away from uniformity with regard to fresh beef and fresh pork." 

With regard to the extent of the cold storage enterprise, the report points out 
that "This business of storing foods has grown to such proportions that consumers 



1913] Books and Literature 181 

have a rightful concern with its management for economic as well as sanitary rea- 
sons. From the returns made to this department by the cold-storage warehouse- 
men, it is inferable that the fresh beef, fresh mutton, fresh pork, poultry, butter, 
eggs, and fish received into cold storage in a year amount to a weight of at least 
1,000,000,000 pounds and ver>- likely to a quarter of a billion more. 

"The eggs received into storage in a year are approximately 13^ per cent of the 
farm productions; the fresh beef is over 3 per cent of the census commercial slaugh- 
ter of cattle; mutton over 4 per cent of that slaughter of sheep and lambs; fresh 
pork 11^ per cent of that slaughter of hogs; and butter 25 per cent of the creamery 
production." 

From the investigation as a whole, the following recommendation is made with 
reference to publicity: 

"This is no indictment of the men who keep foods in cold storage except in so 
far a they sometimes speculate, nor need they be indicted for offenses in order 
that the public economic interest in their business may be made to appear. The 
foregoing matter, it may be supposed, estabhshes that. The man who places food 
in cold storage is somewhat in the situation of the man who forestalls the market. 
He may not attempt to do so, but the power may be a temptation. 

"The affairs of such a business as this should have publicity. The public ought 
to know how much goods are in storage from month to month and what the move- 
ments of receipts and deliveries are. 

"The food warehousemen should be required to send to Washington monthly 
reports containing the desired information. Here these reports could be promptly 
aggregated and the results could be given to the public on a previously announced 
day of the month, somewhat as the crop reports are." 

Refrigeration and Food Products. Ber. II. Intemat. Kaltekong. Wien. i. 1910. 

A number of papers were presented at the Second International Refrigeration 
Congress at Vienna of special interest to students of nutrition and related matters. 

Volume 2 contains the full papers and volume i the discussions, lists of members, 
and other general data. 

Among others the following papers may be mentioned: Changes in the Physical 
and Morphological Character of Foods (Meat, Fish, and Milk), by Biitzler; Cooling 
Houses and Other Buildings in the Tropics, by J. F. H. Koopman; Studies of the 
Preservation of Horseflesh by Cold and Its Use for Food Purposes, by A. Costa 
and N. Mori; The Effect of Low Temperatures on the Life Processes of Fruits 
and on the Rate of Fermentation of Cider, by H. C. Gore; The Refrigeration of 
Poultry and Eggs in the United States, by Mary E. Pennington; The Manufac- 
ture of Ice, by Sandras; .\n Improved Method of Packing Gutted Fish for Trans- 
port and Keeping it Fresh and Sweet for a Long Time, by A. Soelling; A New 
Application of Low Temperature to the Preparation of Concentrated Food Extracts 
or Solids, Particularly Milk Powder, by F. G. Lecomte and A. R. Loinville; The 
Preservation of Eggs by Low Temperature, by F. Lescarde; Importation and Ex- 
portation of Meat to Different Countries with Special Reference to the Use of 
Cold Storage and Frozen Meat in the Netherlands, by F. B. Lohnis; The Relative 
Value of Frozen and Refrigerated Meat for Food Purposes, Particularly with 
Reference to the Army, the Navy, and Public and Private Institutions, by H. 



i82 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

Martel; Refrigeration and Ventilation of Inhabited Places, by H. Torrance, Jr.; 
Relative Value of Frozen and Refrigerated Meat in General and Particularly for 
the Army and Large Groups, by H. Viry; Cold Storage and the Preservation of 
Fresh and Salted Meat, by L. van Wanjenbergh; Feeding the Nations, by A. de 
Wendrich; and Several Methods of Testing Cold Storage Insulation, with Com- 
parative Results, by W. M. Whitten. 

Mince Meat and Other Pure Food and Drug Topics. By E. F. Ladd and 

Alma K. Johnson. North Dakota Station, Special Bulletin 2, No. 51, 912. 

In view of the fact that so much commercial mince meat is used the report of 
work carried on with such materials at the North Dakota Agriculture Experiment 
Station is of interest. Results are reported and discussed of the examination of 
51 samples of mince meat and of miscellaneous food stuffs. 

Of the samples examined, 19 contained no meat or less than i per cent (i.e., no 
meat fiber could be detected), 18 contained less than 3 to 6 per cent meat, and 14 
less than 6 to 10 per cent. In cases of samples containing no meat fiber, "the 
flavor of meat was undoubtedly due to the presence of meat extract." 

Seven of the samples contained glucose. Commenting on the results of their 
investigations, the authors state that "to add starch or glucose, making the same 
largely a constitutent of the [mince] meat, is equally deceptive. The fruit cannot 
legitimately be tomatoes, or apple skins, or waste material generally discarded as 
articles of food." 

According to the authors' view, few of the preparations examined were entitled 
to be classed as mince meats under ordinary definitions. 

The bulletin also contains a paper on the determination of ash of vinegar, by R. 
H. Remington. 

The Elimination of Caffein: An Experimental Study of Herbivora and 

Carnivora. By W. Salant and J. B. Rieger. U. S. Department Agricultural 

Bureau of Chemistry, Bulletin 157. 

According to the authors' investigations, caffein introduced subcutaneously, by 
mouth, or intravenously, is eliminated by rabbits and guinea pigs in part unchanged, 
in the urine, into the gastrointestinal canal, and into the biles. The amount re- 
covered in the urine was in most cases approximately 6 to 10 per cent with rabbits 
and 6 to II per cent with guinea pigs. More caffein was eliminated by rabbits 
on a diet of carrots than of oats and hay, and similar results were obtained with 
guinea pigs. The reverse was noted with the elimination into the gastrointestinal 
tract, which was marked with both kinds of animals. 

"The presence of very small quantities of caffein in the gastrointestinal con- 
tents of animals at the end of 48 hours points to its reabsorption into the circula- 
tion, since destruction of caffein is highly improbable on account of its resistance 
to bacterial action." 

Cats and dogs were found to eliminate very small quantities, slightly over i 
per cent of the amount ingested. "The elimination of caffein begins soon after 
its introduction into the circulation. It was found in the urine from 15 to 40 
minutes after its subcutaneous injection and in some cases continued to be present 
for 48 hours. The greater part, however, is eliminated during the first 24 hours, 
only small quantities being found in the urine later. 



1913] Books and Literature 183 

"The data herein presented lead to the conclusion that in the carnivora larger 
amounts of cafiFein are demethj'lated than in the herbivora, and that the resistance 
to caffein is inversely as demethylation, since it has been shown that caffein is 
much more toxic for carnivora than for herbivora. The mechanism of demethyl- 
ation is in all probabiUty utilized in the body as a means of defense against the 
deleterious action of caffein, being more active in organisms for which the drug 
is more toxic." 

A bibliography is appended. 

Some Experiments on the Relative Digestibility of White and Wholemea 
Breads. By L. F. Newman, G. W. Robinson, E. T. Halman, and H. A. D. 
Neville. Jour. Hyg. (Cambridge), 12, No. 2, 1912. 

The chief purpose of the experiments reported was to study the relative digesti- 
bility of white and so-called "standard" breads. The tests were made with four 
men and were of seven days' duration. 

" With regard to digestibility, the information given by the experiments may be 
looked upon as conclusive. The four individuals who ate the breads varied greatly 
in physical type, and the two forms of bread were eaten by all under strictly com- 
parable conditions. 

"As measured by energy and protein the degree of absorption in different individ- 
uals showed marked uniformity. In the case of phosphorus one individual showed 
a degree of absorption which was considerably less than that of the other subjects. 
The results as a whole lend no support to any extreme view as to the advantages 
or disadvantages possessed by standard bread; at any rate as regards the avail- 
ability of the main, and more familiar food constituents. 

"With respect to the availability of their total energy white bread and standard 
bread differ but little. With regard to protein there is a distinct advantage 
on the side of white bread, some 35 per cent more of its nitrogen-content being 
absorbed. 

"On the other hand, the experiments lend no support to the belief that the 
phosphorous compounds of bread of the "standard" tjpe are worse absorbed than 
those of white bread, so that the former contains an appreciably larger amount, 
not only of total, but of available phosphorus. The ratio of available phosphorus 
to available nitrogen stands, in the case of the standard bread, nearer to the ratio 
present in efficient mixed dietaries, a circumstance, however, which becomes of prac- 
tical significance when only bread forms a large proportion of a person's dietary." 

The Ntunber and Varieties of Bacteria Carried by the Common Housefly 
in Sanitary and Insanitary City Areas. By G. L. Cox, F. C. Lewis, and E. 
E. GljTin. Jour. Hyg. (Cambridge), 12, No. 3, 191 2. 

Results of examinations of 450 flies caught in different parts of Liverpool are 
reported. 

More bacteria and more intestinal bacteria were found in flies caught in the 
congested and insanitary parts of the city than in the suburban areas. No patho- 
genic bacteria were found in flies caught in suburban areas. As many as 350,000 
bacteria came from one fly strugghng in a liquid. 

"Flies caught in milk shops apparently carry and contain more bacteria than 



184 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

those from other shops with exposed food in a similar neighborhood. The reason 
of this is probably because milk when accessible, especially in the summer months, 
is suitable culture medium for bacteria, and the flies first inoculate the milk and 
later reinoculate themselves, and then more of the milk, so establishing a vicious 
circle." 

Bluebottles were found to harbor more bacteria than houseflies in an eating 
place opposite a slaughterhouse. 

" In cities where food is plentiful flies rarely migrate from the localities in which 
they are bred, and consequently the number of bacteria they carry depends upon 
the general standard of cleanliness in that locality." 

Flies rarely migrate far, hence local cleanUness is of value to the inhabitants 
of any portion of the city. 

"It is clear that flies from the suburbs where infantile diarrhea is rare carry 
far less bacteria than those in the city where it is common. It was, nevertheless, 
impossible in the time at our disposal to correlate exactly the number or varieties 
of bacteria carried by flies in the city with the number of cases and deaths from 
infantile diarrhea in individual streets. 

"As the amount of dirt carried by flies in any particular locality, measured in 
terms of bacteria, bears a definite relation to the habits of the people and the 
state of the streets, it demonstrates the necessity of efficient municipal and domes- 
tic cleanliness, if the food of the inhabitants is to escape pollution, not only with 
harmless but also with occasional pathogenic bacteria." 

Fuel Oil. By J. B. Aleshire. War Department (U. S.), Report of Quartermaster 
General, 1912. p. 13. 

A brief account is given of the results of tests with two systems of oil burning 
in two of the new barracks at Fort Winfield Scott. 

The preliminary reports which have been submitted "indicate that 70 per cent 

savings in fuel can be made by the use of fuel oil The installation 

of these burners does not require the modification of the heating and cooking 
apparatus to be such that it can not with slight change be put back for the use of 
coal, and steps will be taken to investigate the advisability of the use of fuel oil 
at all posts on the Pacific coast." 

BOOKS RECEIVED 

The Batchen Fire and How to Run It. Samuel S. Wright, Fuel-Saving 

Expert. Scranton, Pa. $0.75. 
The Story of Textiles. By Perry Walton. Boston: Lawrence and Company. 
Candy-Making Revolutionized. By Mary Elizabeth Hall. New York: Sturgis 

and Walton Company. $0 . 75 net. 
Health on the Farm. By H. L. Harris, Secretary of the Georgia State Board 

of Health. The Young Farmer's Practical Library. New York: Sturgis and 

Walton Company. $1.00 net. 
Home Waterworks. By Carleton J. Lynde. The Young Farmer's Practical 

Library. New York: Sturgis and Walton Company. $1.00 net. 
Institution Recipes. By Emma Smedley. Media, Pa. $1.25. By mail $1.35. 



1 91 3] Books Received 185 

When Mother Lets Us Cook; When Mother Lets Us Help. By Constance 

Johnson. When Mother Lets Us Cut Out Pictures. By Ida Boyd. When 

Mother Lets Us Sew. By Mrs. Ralston. New York: Moffat, Yard and 

Company. So. 7 5 each. 
Method of Race Regeneration. By C. W. Saleeby. New York: Moffat, 

Yard and Company. So. 50. 
Increasing Home Efficiency. By Martha B. and Robert Bru^re. New York: 

The Macmillan Company. $1.50. 
A Book of Hand-Woven Coverlets. By Eliza Calvert Hall. Boston: Little, 

Brown and Company. $3.00. 
School Feeding. By Louise Stevens Bryant. Philadelphia: J. B. Lippincott 

Company. $1.50. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 

The School for Housekeepers conducted annually by the Household Science 
Department of the University of Illinois was held from January 13 to 23, and proved 
to be very popular, as well as helpful. Over 350 women were in 
University of attendance, almost double the registration of the preceeding 
Illinois. year. The program was varied, consisting of lectures, demon- 

strations, and discussions. No laboratory work was offered owing 
to the crowded conditions which must prevail until the completion of the addition 
to the Woman's Building. The subjects included Home Life in Many Lands, 
Landscape Gardening, Home Nursing, Physical Development of Children, Home 
Decoration, Care of Flowers, Planning Meals, Principles of Jelly Making, Cost of 
Food, Home Dressmaking, Home Millinery, and other topics. One day was taken 
up with a discussion of farm problems and many country women who were unable 
to be present for the two weeks came especially for this day. One evening meeting 
was held at which Miss Mary Snow of Chicago talked on The Responsibility of 
the Housekeeper Toward the Budget. Immediately following this two week's 
course, the department offers two extension courses at the University, one in cook- 
ing and one in sewing, open without prerequisites or fees. Twice as many applica- 
tions were received as could be accommodated. 

The Movable Schools offered by the department continue in demand. The whole 
field for extension work seems to be developing rapidly. 

Short course work at Ames began six years ago with Miss Mary F. Rausch as the 

only instructor. The following year Miss Edith C. Charlton came to assist Miss 

Rausch. In December, 1908, Miss Neale S. Knowles took up the 

Iowa State work with Miss Charlton, Miss Rausch having resigned. At that 

College. time two instructors were fully able to take care of the work. Since 
then, the demands for help have increased so rapidly that during the 
present year five regular instructors and a graduate assistant for each instructor have 
been required to take care of the work. Since September sixty-two regular short 
courses have been held, all of which except thirteen 3-day courses, were one 
week. Those in charge of the short courses are Miss Neale S. Knowles, Mrs. 
Louise H. Campbell, Miss Idaho Sutherland, Miss Jessie Austin Boyo and Mrs. 
C. B. McCoy. 

In addition to the regular short course work many engagements have been met 
with institutes, clubs and other organizations. 

At no time since the work began have the demands been so urgent, the attend- 
ance so great, and the interest so genuine. 

The Florida State College for Women gave its first short course in home economics, 

from February 4 to 15. Miss Agnes Ellen Harris, Miss Palmers, 

and Miss Clark were in charge of the work. A schedule of the 

_ ^ course which is very suggestive has been sent to the Journal. 

Doubtless copies of this schedule may be obtained from Miss 

Harris, at the College, 

186 



19 13] News from the Field 187 

A short course in home economics was held at the Maryland Agricultural College 
from January 13 to 18. This is the second year such a course has been given, and 
-_ . , as more than 150 registered it seems to show that the work is 

. . ,, , wanted in Maryland. At the end of the week a quiz on correcting 
Agricultural . , , , ,,,,,, , . ,. 

_ .. improper menus showed that the class had learned much in die- 

tetics and that the work was well understood. In addition to 
the courses mentioned in the December Journal a course in First Aid to the Injured 
was given. A popular lesson was one in beef cutting. A specially prepared print 
of the bony structure was used that showed the shape of the bone in each cut. It 
is hoped that next year a longer course can be given. 

The Michigan Agricultural College does not give a short course in the winter, 
but holds at the college what is called a "State Round-up Institute" for four days, 
__. , . the last of February. During the meetings several sessions are 

. . . given to the work of the women. The program this year included 

_, . the following topics: The physical woman, IMrs. Jas. W. Hehne; 

How can we solve the problems of the farm home? Miss Ilena 
Bailey, of the Farm Management Division of the U. S. Department of Agri- 
culture; The value of recreation, Mrs. C. L. Barber; They help everyone his 
neighbor, Miss Jennie Buell; The home education of the child, Mrs. Dora H. 
Stockman; Gardens and pets for children, Mrs. MjTa V. Bogue. Special demon- 
strations for the women were also given; Plants and flowers for the garden and 
house; Ornamental trees and shrubs for lawn planting; The use of sale patterns; 
and Roasting of meats. The classes and laboratories of the Home Economics 
Department were open to all visitors, and there were also special exhibits illus- 
trative of the work done by the students in this department. 

The Department of Home Economics, University of Missouri, is still growing 
rapidly. It has been housed for the last two years in temporary quarters, an 
old hotel building in the town having been leased and made 
University of over for the purpose. While this has in many ways been unideal, 
Missouri. it has served to give the additional room which has been very 

much needed. The total enrollment in this department for the 
first semester was about three hundred, representing an individual enrollment of 
over a hundred and fifty young women. This will be increased by about seventy- 
five new students the second semester. 

This is the second year of the short course for women. This course lasts seven 
weeks, commencing the first of January. Twenty-one young women from the 
farm homes over the state are entered in this course. 

At the annual meeting of the Missouri State Teachers' Association at Spring- 
field in November, there was formed a branch association for the teachers of house- 
hold arts and science to be known as the Missouri Association of Household Arts 
and Science. It is the plan of this association to divide the state into sections in 
order to facilitate more intensive work. Each section will have a chairman whose 
duty it will be to direct the work in her territory. It will affiliate with the Missouri 
Association of Applied Arts and Science on the one hand, and the Missouri Home- 
Makers' Conference on the other. Plans are being worked out by means of which 
it is hoped to stimulate the work all over the state. The officers for this year are: 
chairman. Miss Louise Stanley, Columbia; treasurer. Miss Anthony, Maryville; 
secretary, Miss Winona Woodward. Columbia. 



i88 The Journal oj Home Economics [April 

The New Jersey State College of Agriculture has given its first course in home 
New Jersey economics during this past winter. Tuesday, January 14, was 
State designated as a special day for the Home Economics Committee of 

College of the New Jersey State Federation of Women's Clubs, of which Mrs. 
Agriculture. Ephraim T. Gill of Haddonfield is chairman. 

During the year 1912-1913, 353 students were enrolled in the Department of 
Household Economics. The number is fast outgrowing the equipment. Mrs. Mary 
S. Woolman, who has been head of the Department of Home 
Simmons College. Economics at Teachers' College, has been appointed tem- 
porary head of the Department of Home Economics at Sim- 
mons. By reason of Professor Woolman's election as president of the Woman's 
Educational and Industrial Union in Boston, the affiliation between the two 
institutions will be strengthened. The Union offers itself as a practical labora- 
tory for Simmons students and it is expected that the opportunities for work 
there will be increased. 

Dr. Selskar M. Gunn of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology is giving 
lectures in sanitary science during the absence of Professor Sedgwick. 

A new course imder the direction of Miss Lundberg is offered to the students 
of home economics this year. By an affiUation with the settlement houses of 
the city the classes in cooking and sewing are put in charge of Simmons students. 
A senior is head of each class with a junior as assistant. The students are able to 
work out in their teaching the principles gained in education classes at the college. 

At the celebration of Home Economics Day Dean Arnold spoke to several of 
the classes of the meaning of the day, and of the value of Mrs. Richards' contribu- 
tion to home economics. 

Home Economics Day was observed December 3, 191 2. To quote "in honor 

of Ellen H. Richards, the one to whom we are greatly indebted for the wonderful 

„ „, , progress and steady growth of the household sciences and arts as 

Bellingham ^ ^, . , . . . „ ... , . 

,_. u \ -Rj a subject of mstruction m our colleges, universities, normal and 

. „' . pubUc schools, women's clubs, and other civic organizations. 

"Mrs. Richards gave her life for the betterment of every home 

in country and city. 'Her gift to her country and its future has been an 

immeasurable educational influence in sanitation and the conservation of all 

natural resources and human forces." ' 

The Home Economics Association of Philadelphia did honor to the memory of 

Ellen H. Richards on Home Economics Day, December 3. Through the courtesy 

■r.t- .1 J . t_ . of Miss Mary E. Parker the meeting was held at the William Penn 
Philadelphia ^r- , r. 1 ; , 1 , 

TT T^ High School and the department of art and home economics 

Home Econo- , . . . , , 

. , was open for inspection. A group of the students served tea 
mics Associa- , , , ... 

to the guests at the close of the meeting. 

The president of the Association, Miss Imogene C. Belden, pre- 
sided at the meeting and introduced the speaker. Miss Margaret Limerick read 
the sketch of Mrs. Richard's life based on Miss Hunt's biography, and Dr. A. P. 
Brubaker read an article from the Biochemical Magazine written by Miss Seaman. 
The latter gave a very complete account of Mrs. Richard's busy life from the 
scientist's viewpoint, and with these two very able sketches we feel that we have 



19 13] News from the Field 189 

some slight conception of what Mrs. Richards has done for the betterment of our 
American homes. 

The birthday of Ellen H. Richards was celebrated at Howard University, Wash- 
ington, D. C, by the recently established Department of Home Economics, of which 

Mrs. Helen Brooks Irvin is director. The program included an 
Howard address by Mrs. Julia W. Shaw, director of domestic science in 

University the colored schools of Washington, upon the subject The Scope of 

the Domestic Science Teacher, and one by Miss Caroline L. Hunt, 
of the OfBce of Experiment Stations, on The American Home and its Debt to Mrs. 
Richards. 

Home Economics Day, December 3, was appropriately observed at the Michigan 

Agricultural College. The exercises were in charge of the honorary society, Omi- 

-_. , . cron Nu, and took the form of an afternoon tea, with program. 

. Invitations were extended to members of the Association of Col- 

legiate Alumnae, the College Woman's Club, the senior women, 

and the faculty of the department. The program, which was 

participated in by both students and faculty, consisted of musical selections and 

papers on the life of Mrs. Richards and the progress in home economics. An old 

copy of Xenophon's Economics created much interest. 

The sixth annual meeting of the Missouri Home-Makers' Conference was held 

in Columbia, January 14 to 17 inclusive. This was conceded by all concerned to 

_^. . be the most successful meeting yet held. A greater in ter- 

,_ , , ,., , est is shown each year, as is indicated by the increased 

Makers' Conference. _ , , , „ ^, 

attendance of women from all over the state. 

The last two years especial attention has been given to the study of some of the 
industries which farm women may carry on in and about the home for profit, 
such as dairying, poultry raising, canning, and flower culture. The members 
themselves are leaders of these discussions and experts in the various lines are 
brought in to answer perplexing questions. 

This year the conference was especially fortunate in having Miss Edna D. 
Day, who, as chairman of the Department of Home Economics, University of Mis- 
souri, was the founder of our conference. Miss Day spoke on "The Problem of 
the Girl." 

One of the most interesting features of the program this year was a Child Welfare 
Exhibit under the direction of Mrs. C. W. Greene, state chairman of home econom- 
ics. This was composed of material illustrating the different phases of child life. 
There was a permanent exhibit of clothing for children of all ages, games for chil- 
dren, books for children, pictures for the home, music for children in the home and 
each day the class in dietetics prepared and displayed a balanced daily ration for a 
child of a definite age. This exhibit was supplemented each day by a talk at the 
end of both morning and afternoon sessions on the various phases of the work in the 
interest of children. The culmination of the whole program was a baby show 
which came on Friday afternoon. The babies were scored by a special score card 
prepared by Dr. C. W. Greene of the department of physiology. The mothers 
were most interested in the score made by their babies, and many easily remedied 
defects were brought in this way to the attention of the mothers. This con- 



igo Tlie JourtKil of Home Economics [April 

test was so successful in every way that an attempt is to be made to introduce 
it into all the coimty fairs in the state this summer. A copy of the score card may 
be had by sending to Miss Nelle Nesbitt, corresponding secretary Missouri Home- 
iMakers' Conference, Columbia, Mo. 

During the last week in January the Association known as Organized Agriculture 
met in Lincoln, Nebraska. Two of the nineteen associations held their meetings 
in the city, the others met at the State University Farm, three 
miles distant from the city. At this time the Nebraska Home 
_ . Economics Association held a two days' session in Home Economics 

. ,, Hall. Over 300 people attended the lectures and demonstrations. 

Mrs. A. E. Davisson was elected president of the Association for 
next j^ear. Her connection with the extension department of the Universitj' will 
be valuable in increasing the correlation between the various lines of home eco- 
nomics work throughout the state. A short course, including laborator>' work, is 
much desired and will be offered as soon as laboratory' space and the size of the 
instruction force will allow. 

A Business Woman's Exchange was opened at 1338 G Street N. W., Washington, 
on January 15. The exchange is a cooperative organization of business women, 
_^ and its object is to establish a bureau for business women where 

_ . all matter pertaining to their business interests can center. We 

_j^ , _ quote from the circular "The whole spirit of the organization is 

, cooperation, each helping the other in every possible way. W^e 

do not guarantee a position to any one under any circumstances as 
it is obvious that such a guarantee could not be given in good faith. But every 
effort will be made to find satisfactory employment for everj' competent woman 
who will keep in touch with the office and make every reasonable effort in her own 
behalf." There are two classes of membership; first class, members eligible to posi- 
tions paying $10 per week and upward; and second class, members eligible to posi- 
tions paying less than $10 per week. 

At the recent International Live Stock Show in Chicago demonstrations and 
lectures that proved a great attraction were given on the prepara- 
International tion of the cheaper cuts of meat. This feature was given promi- 
Live Stock nence and was intelligently presented by the home economics de- 
Show, partments of the Kansas and Iowa Agricultural Colleges, and 
large audiences gathered twice daily. 

The school board of Cheyenne, Wyoming, has voted to establish departments 
of manual iraining and domestic science in the schools, to be ready for the opening 

of the next school year. 
Brief Notes Saco, Maine, has manual training for the boys of the eighth and 

ninth grades. Domestic science classes have been arranged for 
the girls of corresponding grade by the Educational and Industrial Union of the city. 

Manual training and domestic science departments have been organized in the 
high school at Greenville, Texas. 

It is proposed to unite the Iowa Manual Arts Association and the Iowa Home 
Economics Association, and to hold a joint meeting on some Friday evening in 
February or March, followed by separate programs and sessions on Saturday 
morning. 



1913] News from the Field 191 

The first institute for teachers of Home Economics in Mississippi was held at the 
Industrial Institute and College, Columbus, Miss., Februan* 26-March i. 

This institute was attended by teachers in the agricultural 
Mississippi high schools of the state, and the city high schools. Representa- 

Industrial tives and speakers attended from Alabama, Tennessee, and 

Institute and Florida. The institute was held under the direction of Miss 
College. 5^Iabel Ward, Director of Home Science at this college. 

The Industrial Institute and College also offers two short 
spring courses of six weeks each. These courses are planned for the country 
teachers who wish to do school improvement work, or to offer some industrial 
training in connection with grade work. Short courses in cooking will be gi%'en 
especially for teachers who wish to do summer work in connection with the tomato 
club work now so important in the state. 

The Industrial Institute and College offers a special two >-ears' course for teachers 
and this course furnishes the teachers for nearly all the public schools in the state. 

The Extension Service of the if assachusetts Agricultural Collie has made an- 
other distinct advance by the addition of Home Economics work to 
Massachu- their courses. Miss Laura Comstock, for the p>ast four years head 
setts of the Home Economics Department in the Universit}' of Maine, 

Agricultural has been appointed to fill the new position. 
College Professor Comstock was reared on a farm in Xew York State. 

She attended counUy- and xillage schools and has taught in coun- 
tr>- schools, normal schools, and has done universitj- work. She is a graduate of 
Buffalo Normal School and of Pratt Institute, and brings to this important work in 
.■Vmherst a knowledge of rural hfe and interest in it, and the best of scientific train- 
ing. 

Miss Comstock will b^in her work at Amherst Jul}* i next with courses in the 
Summer SchooL After this is completed she will organize work with teachers in 
the public schools; gi%-e instruction in the Extension Schools; arrange the programs 
for Farmers' Week and the Simmier Com'erence; organize work in ra.nning in the 
Bo>-3' and Girls' Clubs; and give lectures and demonstrations before Granges, 
Women's Clubs, and other organizations. 

The Long Island Railroad Company which conducts two agricultural experiment 
stations on Long Island, is mal-ing some experiments, under the direction of Mr. 

and Mrs. H. B. Fullerton, of the \-alue of the fnoit that usually goes 
Conservation to waste on the average farm. From the report of the work done 
on the Farm, in 191 1 we quote the following: "By waste or surplus we mean such 

items as the following: When tomatoes are sorted for shipment 
only the most perfect are selected, any that are over-ripe, or mis-shapen or split are 
withheld. In order to keep berr>- \-ines in full bearing they must be picked every 
day but Simday. Saturday's pick, is, as a rule, too soft to ship on Monday. 
Fruit trees must be thinned in order to allow the best fruit plenty of room in which 
to develop. Nubbins of com; a small pick of p>eas or beans: green tomatoes left 
on the \-ines when the frost comes, all have a commercial \-alue when cooked and 
put in glass jais." .\t the end of the season the amount of material thus conserved 
numbered nearly 100 \-arietie5 and a total of 5507 glasses, jars and botUes. This 
we imderstand is on an average sized farm. But this experiment in order to be of 
real \-alue should report on time used in raring for these surplus crops together with 
its value per hour. 



ASSOCIATIONS. 

The second National Conference on Housing in America held in Philadelphia 
December 4-6, 191 2, was an instructive, enthusiastic and hopeful gathering. 
Philadelphia tried to be frank and honest with her delegates, 
Second Annual and on the first day gave them a tour of the worst housing con- 
National Hous- ditions in the city, and on the second day a tour of the improved 
ing Conference, housing conditions. This city is peculiarly fortunate in its 
small houses, and it was stated at the conference that it has 
the best system of these in the country. The model small house shown to the 
delegates, which rents as low as from $16 to S18 per month, contains six rooms with 
a bath, laimdry and cellar. A swinging transom window opening into the dining- 
room from the first stair landing gives light in the entry, and the stairs are open to 
the living-room. The dining-room and the living-room are connected by a small 
arch way under the second floor landing. A commodious cupboard, containing 
an electric light is placed under the stairway. Two windows in the dining-room 
open onto an open space between the two houses. The kitchen, well lighted by 
a large window and also by a glass door into the laundry is provided with wall cup- 
boards, porcelain sink, and a gas stove with a hot water boiler attached. The 
cellar stairs lead down from the kitchen. The laundry is a bright, cheerful room 
with windows on two sides and a glass door opening on the back porch. It is 
provided with two stationary tubs. A small lavatory opens on the stoop. The 
small back yard is surrounded by a tight board fence and has a cement walk with 
enough ground for a lawn or for a vegetable and flower bed. 

Upstairs is a large, bright room, above the living-room, and another even brighter 
room over the kitchen and laundry. Between these two rooms there is a passage 
and, opening off from it, a small bedroom too small for even one person, and the 
bathroom. All the rooms are well provided with clothes closets. These houses 
are in West Philadelphia. 

On St. Albans Street the parking and the small park between the fronts of the 
houses were noticeable. A small, narrow park enclosed by an iron fence runs the 
length of the block. The whole is in charge of a caretaker who receives 20 cents 
per month for his labor from each household. The houses have from eight to ten 
rooms, back yards, and rear driveway and rent from $23 to $25 per month. 

"Converted" houses or tenements, shown on Diamond Street, were in course 
of construction from "brown stone front" houses, fairly comfortable for one family, 
into three-family houses or tenements. Less than 3 per cent of the buildings used 
for living purposes in Philadelphia are tenements. The majority of these are of 
the "Converted" type, i. e., former dwellings changed into three-family houses. 
Where these are changed in accordance with the provision of the law certain set 
standards of light, ventilation and sanitation are complied with. These build- 
ings are typical of the better class of converted houses. They are to have a 
common rear yard, with grass and fountain. Each floor is an apartment, with 

192 



1913] Associations 193 

its private hall. The central room, made by partitioning the former parlor, 
must, in all such houses be handicapped in the amount of natural light. Apart- 
ments similar to these rent, depending upon the neighborhood, for sums varying 
from S25 to S45 and have from three to five rooms and bath. It appeared as if 
some of the most objectionable features of the old-time apartments were being in- 
troduced in these houses, such as narrow stairs, long dark halls and more or less 
dark intermediate rooms. 

At Mifflin Place something was shown of the work of the Octavia Hill Associa- 
tion in the reconstruction of houses. This Association is a 4 per cent philan- 
thropic stock company with a capital of $200,000 in shares of $25. It has a 
real estate investment of $168,634 and from records to date for the year 191 2 will 
have a gross revenue on this investment of 10 per cent. Altogether it owns 127 
houses for 178 families and controls 173 other houses for 390 families. Its aim 
is to improve insanitary areas by bu>nng and reconstructing old dwellings. It acts 
as agent for properties whose owners will put them in a sanitary condition, for 
which service it charges 7I per cent on rents collected. By the aid of women 
rent collectors who are also instructive sanitary inspectors, it maintains a high 
standard of cleanliness in all its buildings. Mifflin Place is a group of old build- 
ings reconstructed and repaired. The large houses facing Front Street, now tene- 
ments, were colonial dwellings, and even now contain much fine woodwork and 
carved mantels. The smaller houses, dated 1748, are said to have been servants' 
quarters. This group shows the various types of buildings commonly found in 
old Philadelphia and includes the "band-box" houses, each having one room on a 
floor and being three floors high, and the "converted" tenement houses. In all 
there are 22 buildings housing 44 families. The gross rental is $4167. The 
owner does not wish to draw a revenue from the property but permits the earn- 
ings to go into improvements or to provide for the purchase of additional houses. 
WTien the area was first purchased the lots of the houses facing Front Street 
were 200 feet deep, some of the present buildings being back yard dwellings. The 
fences were taken down and the interior court made. The Association has reno- 
vated the houses, improved the gardens, and supplied anne.x kitchens, bath- 
rooms, etc. At first, the back yards were all thrown into one, but the residents 
preferred more privacy and upon their request, small yards with substantial gates 
were fenced in at the back of each house. The rest of the center space was left for 
a playground which can be used only by the children living in these houses. A 
shelter was built, a sandbox constructed and swings put up. The residents 
keep the playground neat and once a week a caretaker puts all in order. One of 
the houses is used as a social settlement. The houses are never empty and the 
rents are always paid promptly. 

The Girard Estate is a development scheme created by the Estate of Stephen 
Girard upon a tract of land in South Philadelphia. The houses are two and three 
stories high, mostly semi-detached, with yard space equal to that of the majority 
of suburban properties. They are of diversified architecture with ample porches, 
and contain from seven to nine rooms each. A central heating and lighting plant 
provides, through underground pipes and wires so laid as to be readily accessible 
at all times, ample light and heat for all the houses. Cabinet gas ranges are in 
all the kitchens, thus eliminating all dirt from coal and ashes. The living-rooms 
are on the second and third floors. The kitchen and the bathroom walls and ceil- 



ig4 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

ings have a covering of "Sanitas" capable of being scrubbed with soap and water. 
Adjoining the kitchen is the laundry, fitted with stationary tubs, and supplied 
with running hot water from the central heating plant and unlimited in quantity. 
The houses are not for sale. The lawns and trees are cared for by a force of gar- 
deners in the employ of the Estate. There is a sliding scale of rentals dependent 
upon the season of the year and fluctuating between $27 and $35.50 in the cheaper 
houses and between $43 and $57 in the more expensive ones. Heat is supplied 
and charged for from September to June. The cost is added to the rent at so 
much per month, the maximum rent being charged in December and January. 
These average $6 per month and are supplied at less cost than if provided by 
private individuals. There are no ashes to be disposed of. Each house is pro- 
vided with two canvas bags for waste paper and this is collected every day. Once 
a week large quantities of paper which have accumulated are collected. The 
houses appear comfortable and present pleasing varieties in architecture. One 
naturally looks for a neighborhood house or recreation center of some kind, but none 
was to be seen. As the Estate is some distance from the amusement center of 
the city this seerrs a serious oversight upon the part of the management. The 
houses also are built near the street, sometimes with hardly any front ground, 
but this is a custom rather peculiair to Pennsylvania. 

The daily luncheons, with three minute reports and discussions were an interest- 
ing feature of the conference. At the last luncheon, Jacob Riis spoke of his pleas- 
ure in seeing the interest in the housing conditions and in knowing that the people 
were getting down to the beginnings of troubles. The housing and building 
inspectors took an active part in the discussions and it is hoped that a closer co- 
operation will exist between the oflicials and the social workers. The tenement 
was condemned as usual and when Dr. Goler of Rochester was asked to speak on 
the model tenement, he quickly responded that there were no model tenements 
and never would be until there were model boils and other model sore spots. 
On Friday evening a banquet at the Bellevue-Stratford was given the confer- 
ence by the city of Philadelphia. The Rt. Honorable James Bryce, British 
Ambassador to the United States, was the guest of honor. Dr. Dwight Hillis, of 
Plymouth Church, Brooklyn Heights, and Rudolph Blankenburg, the reform 
Mayor of Philadelphia, also spoke. Ambassador Bryce complimented the confer- 
ence on its interest and work in the fundamental problem of housing and the care 
of the people. He spoke of the fact that the American cities are often wonderfully 
provided with parks and boulevards, but lack the little squares, the little air and 
garden spaces where the children and working people can breathe fresh air near 
their homes and can rest and play without going long distances. Dr. Hillis empha- 
sized the humanitarian side of the work, the importance of neighborhood friendli- 
ness so that there be not such contrast between the inhabitants of the street and 
those of the alleys. 

In his farewell address, Ma3'^or Blankenburg bade the delegates God-speed in 
his hearty, fatherly German spirit and urged them to bring about new conditions 
through the reform of the municipal government, by making a government for 
all the people and by the people, or to use his good German word, just by folks 
without party lines and free from all state and national politics. 

Gwendolyn Stewart. 



1 9 13] Associations 195 

The sixth annual convention of the National Society for the Promotion of In- 
dustrial Education was held at the Hotel Walton, Philadelphia, on Thursday, 
Friday and Saturday, December 5 to 7, 191 2. A strong pro- 
National Society gram was presented and much significant work was accomplished, 
for the Promo- In opening the discussion of the problem of training teachers 
tionof Industrial for girls' work, Mrs. M. S. Woolman, president of the Women's 
Education. Educational and Industrial Union, Boston, and Miss Florence 

M. Marshall, principal of the Manhattan Trade School for 
Girls, New York, submitted among the theses the following: 

Vocational and trade schools, for girls have problems peculiar to themselves, 
and require especially trained teachers. 

The method of conducting vocational education should, of necessity, differ greatly 
between such extremes as the school in the smal! community with no special indus- 
tries and the great industrial city. One solution of the problem \vill not fit all 
needs. 

The training of young women for industry in the large industrial cities presents 
two especially serious phases: (i) giving them adequate and industrial efficiency 
with ideals of labor, and (2) making them healthful, effective women fitted for 
the duties of the home. 

To train girls to satisfactorily meet both problems takes time, and the pressure 
of early wage-earning makes short-time courses necessary because the pre-voca- 
tional preparation is not yet a good foundation on which to build; hence time must 
be taken for preparatory work. 

We are not hkely to secure the best teachers for teaching of the trades them- 
selves by drawing them from the regular public school and giving them a short 
additional training in industrial processes. 

The very best teachers and the most skilled trade workers are needed, but the 
combination is difficult to find at present. 

In training capable trade teachers, we must expect a greater per capita cost than 
we are in the habit of giving to the ordinary school teachers. 

There are many kinds of teachers needed for industrial education — pre-voca- 
tional, secondary-vocational, and trade schools — requiring, in varying degrees, 
household arts training; efficiency training in trade shops; trade academic training 
to further industrial intelligence; trade-art training for industrial purposes; train- 
ing in hygiene in order to better conditions at present interfering with the success 
of wage-earners, either at trade or at home; practical social and economic informa- 
tion, and much investigation of industry to gain a knowledge of the needs of differ- 
ent localities. 

Poor health in women who work is a menace to the future of the country. Special 
knowledge of hygienic living should be given all teachers who will work in industrial 
schools. A physician should be in constant attendance in such schools to cooperate 
with the teaching force and better prepare each wage-earner for the physical strain 
of the market. 

The idea of woman as a home-maker should be ever present when training 
teachers, but it cannot be emphasized in the short-time trade school of industrial 
cities as it can in vocational schools in other localities. 

Teachers trained in good domestic art courses, and who have taken trade exf>eri- 



196 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

ence, have been found to make good teachers for vocational schools or for the ele- 
mentary and intermediate grades of dressmaking in a trade school. 

Supervisors and directors of industrial schools should combine broadminded 
culture, knowledge of working conditions, interest in working people and their 
lives, modern, social and economic intelligence, the relation of domestic science to 
health and household arts of life, with a knowledge of trades fitting the supervisor 
to organize them and judge the value of the courses conducted in them. 



AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 
CORNELL MEETING. 

The American Home Economics Association will meet at Cornell 
University, Ithaca, New York, Friday, June 27-Friday, July 4. This 
time of year was chosen as one when the great majority of members 
are free to come, and a large attendance is expected. The general 
plan of the program is to provide for two sessions a day, leaving one- 
third of the time for the informal conferences, the walks and talks that 
are so valuable a part of the meeting. 

It is hoped that special railroad rates will be granted, but no definite 
announcement can be made yet regarding this, Cornell University 
offers its hospitality with a cordiality that few could equal. Sage 
College will be opened, and a room there will cost 75 cents a day, 
while meals at the cafeteria will cost from 75 cents to $1 a day. The 
maximum cost at Ithaca therefore need not exceed $2 a day. Those 
who wish to engage rooms may do so by writing Department of 
Home Economics, New York State College of Agriculture, Ithaca, 
New York. There are single rooms and rooms with two single beds. 
In writing please specify which you prefer. 

A detailed account of the program will be sent to all members, and 
will appear in the June niunber of the Journal. 



• THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Home, Institution, School 

EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR 

Mrs. Mary H. Abel Marguerite B. Lake 

EDITORIAL BOARD 

Benj. R. An'drews C. F. Langworthy 

Isabel Ely Lord 

COLLABORATORS 
The Officers and Members of the Council 

Vol. V JUXE, 191,^ No. 3 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Household Science Building, University of Toronto Frontispiece 

The Women's Institutes of the Province of Ontario. George A. Putnam 197 

Connecting the school with the farm home 203 

The grange and home economics. Elizabeth H. Patterson 206 

The home environment as affecting the physical and mental growth of school 

children. Sara M. Holbrook 211 

Beginnings of the modern domestic art movement, C. F. Langworthy 217 

Training high school girls for trade work, ileriel \V. Willard 21Q 

Relation between occupation and criminality of women : a summary, ^lar- 

guerite B. Lake 224 

Textile labeling law 231 

The vocational and cultural value of domestic science, ilarion Talbot 232 

Class work in the Girls' Friendly Society, Edith ]\I. Hadley 236 

Home economics work in the United States for men and boys, C. F. Langworthy 239 

Lunches in elementarj- schools 249 

Address at University of Toronto, Alice Ravenhill 250 

The Household Science Building of the University of Toronto, Annie Laird. . 257 

Editorials 261 

Bibliography of Home Economics literature 264 

Books and literature 268 

Books received 280 

Xews from the field 281 

Fourth Internat'onal Congress on School Hygiene 286 

National Conserv-ation Exposition 288 

Dry Farming Congress and International Congress of Farm Women 289 

Annual mcclini: .Vmerican Home Economics .\ssocialion 289 



The Journal of Home Economics is published five times during the year, February, .\pril 
June, October, December, by the .American Home Economics .Association. 

$2.00 A YEAR. FOREIGN $2.25. SINGLE COPIES 50 CENTS, 

HOW TO REMIT. Remittances should be sent by Draft on New York, Express Order, or 
Postal Money Order, payable to the American Home Economics Association. Currency, unless 
mailed in a registered letter, is at the sender's risk. 

CH.-\NGE IN .\D DRESS. Notice of change in address should be sent Two Weeks before 
the date of issue on which the change is to take effect. The change cannot be made unless the 
subscriber's Old .Address i? clearly indicated in addition to the New .Address. 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 
Roland Park Branch, Baltimore, Md. 

Entered as second class matter at the Baltimore Post Office. 



THE 

Journal ^/Home Economics 

Vol. V. JUNE, 1913 No. 3 

THE WOMEN'S INSTITUTES OF THE PROVINCE OF 

ONTARIO. 

Geo. a. Putnam, B.S.A. 

Superintendent, Toronto, Canada. 

So much has been written and so much money devoted to the 
establishment and carrying on of household economic schools in the 
centres of population in recent years, that it is interesting to know 
something of an organization in Ontario which has among its many 
activities recently introduced a system whereby systematic instruc- 
tion in "food values and cooking," "sewing" and "home nursing" is 
pro\dded for the women in our country districts. 

The Women's Institutes of Ontario, embracing 750 separate organ- 
izations and numbering about 25,000 members, has already accom- 
plished among the women of Ontario a great work towards personal 
efficiency, home betterment, community improvement, and the 
establishing of a better social life in our rural districts. 

The objects of the Women's Institutes of Ontario are, "the dissemi- 
nation of knowledge relating to domestic science, including household 
architecture, with special attention to home sanitation; a better under- 
standing of the economic and hygienic value of foods, clothing, and 
fuel, and a more scientific care and training of children with a view to 
raising the general standard of the health and morals of our people; 
or the carrying on of any work which has for its object the uplift of the 
home or the betterment of conditions surrounding community life." 

Some thirty years ago the pro\'inciaI government made a pro\dsion 
for instructing the farmers of the province by sending lecturers — 
practical farmers, agricultural scientists, and veterinary surgeons— 

197 



iqS The Journal oj Home Economics [June 

to address meetings held at important centers in the various electoral 
districts during the winter months, when the farmers had time to 
take advantage of the instruction given. The farmers' wives were 
interested in and profited by the instruction in dairying, poultry 
raising, growing of small fruits, bee-keeping, vegetable growing, etc. 
About fifteen years ago the women at one of the centers where the 
Farmers' Institute work has been much appreciated, asked for the 
formation of an organization to deal with the activities and interests 
of the farm and the household in which the women were specially 
concerned. Enthusaism on the part of the women and the practica- 
bility of their various activities have characterized the work of the 
Women's Institutes from the beginning. 

The Women's Institutes have shown greater energy and resource- 
fulness than the Farmers' Institutes, due partly to a better form of 
organization. While the Women's Institutes have from the beginning 
devoted and continue to devote some attention to the agricultural 
activities mentioned, their thoughts and efforts have been largely 
concerned with home-making and home-keeping matters. In the 
early days of the work, domestic science — mostly cooking — largely 
absorbed the interest of the members. The work of the Institute has, 
however, developed, and much attention has been given in the past 
few years to the subjects of child welfare, improving the sanitary con- 
ditions of the rural schools, the beautifying of the schools and grounds, 
civic improvement, medical inspection of schools, home nursing, con- 
tagious and infectious diseases, etc. 

Some of the subjects discussed by local organizations at their month- 
ly meetings are: School lunches; school sanitation and decoration; 
medical inspection in schools; the education of the farmers' daughters; 
the physical and mental development of the child; care and training 
of children in the home; teaching life truths; laws concerning women; 
health of women; noted Canadian women; the farmer's wife and her 
problems; women's work in the world; bee keeping as an occupation 
for women; small fruits; poultry raising; vegetable growing; butter 
making; the ideal home; hygiene and health in the home; house decora- 
tion; a model kitchen; diet suitable for different ages and occupations; 
eggs, their preparation and food value; meats, their composition and 
cooking; care of milk; pickles and canning; laundry work; labor saving 
devices; domestic art; first aid to sick and injured; home nursing; 
tuberculosis and its prevention; value of rest; the power and value 
of the ideal in our lives; household pests; house plants; flowers and 



1913] The Women's Institutes of Ontario 199 

shrubs that are easy to grow; famous composers; current events; our 
social responsibilities. 

Our annual convention of from 500 to 600 delegates from all sections 
of the province is an occasion of great value and inspiration. The 
program of last November will indicate the importance and far 
reaching effects of this annual gathering. 

Thursday, November 14, 191 2. 

Morning. 

Registration of Delegates and Devotional Exercises. 
.\ddress of Welcome, Mrs. F. H. Torrington. 
Reply to Address of Welcome, Miss M. V. Powell, Whitby. 
Annual Report, Geo. A. Putnam, Superintendent. 
Reports from District and Branch Institutes. 
Explanation re. Electrical Household Appliances. 

Afternoon. 

Topic: Child Welfare. 

Report of Committee, Miss A. M. Hotson, Parkhill. 

Explanation re. Child Welfare Exhibit, Dr. Helen McMurchy, Toronto. 

Address, The Physical Development of the Child (Illustrated), Dr. A. Backus 
Aylmer. 

Address, The Mental Development of the Child, Chancellor A. L. McCrimmon 
McMaster University, Toronto. 

Evening. 

Discussion, The work of the District and Branch Secretaries. 
Address, Neglected and Dependent Children, Mr. J. J. Kelso, Toronto. 

Friday, November 15. 

Morning. 

Discussion of the Work of the District and Branch Officers. 

Demonstration Lecture Courses and Systematic Study. 

Address, Women and Business Methods, Mr. Alex. Mills, Toronto. 

Question Drawer under direction of Miss M. U. Watson, MacDonald Institute, 
Guelph. 

Explanations re. Model Schoolhouse and Gardens, Prof. S. B. McCready, 0. A. 
C, Guelph. 

Afternoon. 

Question Drawer. 

Address, Contagious Diseases and New Medical Health Act, Dr. J. W. S. McCul- 
lough, Toronto. 

Address, Laws Relating to Women and Children, Mrs. H. W. Parsons, Forest. 

Discussion, Labor Saving Devices. [ D E P A RTMEK T 

• « 

Lb- 
HOUSEHOLD SCIENCE' 



200 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

Preceding the above sessions a joint meeting was held representing the Women's 
and Farmers' Institutes, Farmers' Clubs, Horticultural Societies, Fruit Growers' 
Association. This meeting was addressed by the Hon. Martin Burrell, Minister 
of Agriculture for the Dominion, the Hon. W. J. Hanna, Provincial Secretary for 
Ontario, and other prominent speakers. 

The proceedings of the annual convention together with selected 
articles of interest to women are published in an annual report sent to 
all members. Occasional bulletins are also mailed to the members. 

It is impossible to enumerate the many forms in which the Institutes 
are serving the indi\idual, the community, and the nation. Their 
field of effort is unlimited, and thoughtful, capable women of high 
ideals in localities where the w^ork has been longest established are 
most enthusiastic as to the future of the work. 

While the main efforts of the members of the Women's Institutes 
are toward instruction in those matters w^hich bear directly upon the 
acti\aties of the woman in the home, it has always been the aim of 
those in charge of the work to encourage sociability which in many 
locaUties is looked upon as one of the strongest features of the Insti- 
tute. Especially is this true in those sections w^here the coimtry is 
as yet sparsely settled. We have Institutes in a few of the newer 
sections of the country where within a radius of four or five miles there 
are not more than fifteen or twenty homes established. The Institute 
in these districts, as wxU as in some of the more thickly settled localities 
offers practically the only opportunity for social intercourse. Even 
in the more thickly settled districts where there are many social 
advantages, the members prize the social opportunities in the Insti- 
tute as highly as any other social attraction. Thimble days, travel 
days, nature study days, recipe days, and "just talk" days afford 
opportunity for healthful sociability. 

It will be seen from the foregoing that the efforts of the Women's 
Institute are largely toward efficiency in the home; the intellectual, 
physical and moral betterment of the individuals in the household, 
the encouragement of civic improvement, the establishment of a fuller 
and better community life, etc. With all this, the members of the 
Institute are given assistance towards agricultural betterment, but, 
as a great majority of the women in our new country find little time 
for agricultural pursuits, this feature of instruction is as yet of minor 
importance. The few women who are devoting their attention to 
agriculture in Canada find the occupation a paying one, and the oppor- 
tunities for women in fruit growing, vegetable growing, bee-keeping, 
poultry raising, and dairying are most attractive. 



1913I ^^ Wotnen^s histitutes oj Ontario 201 

We believe some of the following under-lying principles have been 
to a large extent responsible for the marked development and unparal- 
leled efficiency of the work undertaken in behalf of the women of 
Ontario. 

In the first place we require that those who form organizations do 
a certain amount of work upon their own initiative. Each organiza- 
tion is required to hold at least four meetings during the year, and 
many of them hold a meeting each month. At one or two of these 
meetings the members are favored with a lecturer sent from the 
Department of Agriculture. 

At other meetings addresses and papers or other forms of instruction 
and entertainment are pro\aded by the members of the local organi- 
zation with the assistance of the local teachers, doctors, dentists, busi- 
ness men, lawyers, butchers — whoever has a message of value to the 
woman of responsibiUty. While the Department of Agriculture aims 
to give the very best instruction along lines of importance to the 
woman in the home, we beUeve we are doing the greatest service by 
assisting and encouraging the people to help themselves and to develop 
and bring out the talent which can be found in every community. 

We have avoided all subjects of a political, religious or controversial 
nature, and have emphasized, as of the most importance, that which 
is the daily work and concern of the great majority of adult women in 
our homes, and it is to be noted that from 85 to go per cent of our 
homemakers have to do their own work. We believe in dealing with 
the practical and bringing to the aid of practical women scientific 
truths which bear directly upon their various activities. While the 
organization was established for the purpose of giving instruction, 
the members have come to appreciate the fact that it is only through 
their efforts to assist each other that they can derive the greatest 
personal benefit. When a band of women come together with the 
object of assisting those members in need of instruction and, also, 
with the object of doing anything and everything which means the 
advancement of the community and the betterment of cormnunity 
life, you can depend upon it that every individual will receive much 
benefit through the effort made. 

Our Institutes have, we believe, interpreted the spirit of human 
helpfulness more effectively than any other organization of which we 
have knowledge. 

The Department of Agriculture has furnished for one or two meet- 
ings at each center during the year, lecturers capable of treating such 
subjects as the following: 



202 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

Consumption and its prevention; Education of girls; Eugenics; The mother's 
everyday problems; Health a duty; What a home science training means to a 
girl; The plant and its relation to the dairyman; Medical inspection in schools; 
Diet in relation to health; Laws of health; The nervous system: its construction 
and modem abuse; Physical housekeeping; The school: its relation to the com- 
munity; Household management; Infant mortality; The care of the eyesight; 
Dairy sanitation; Buttermaking and other dairy problems; The individual and 
the commimity; Child and parent; Heredity; Marriage; Canadian laws concern- 
ing women and children ; Plain and fancy sewing; Bee keeping on the farm ; Germs 
and their relation to disease; Infectious diseases of children; Home butter making; 
A woman's part on a dairy farm ; Home treatment in mechano-therapy ; Canning, 
preserving and pickling. 

In addition to sending speakers to the Institutes occasionally, the 
Department gives a small grant of $3 to each branch Institute, and a 
direct grant of $10 and $3 on account of each branch to the district 
organization, embracing the branches in each electoral district. The 
amount of the grants for 1Q12 was $4,971- 

A recent development which promises to be of great value to the 
women of rural districts and referred to in the opening paragraph of 
this article, is that of systematic instruction by well qualified teachers 
in cooking, sewing, and home nursing. The individual Institute, in 
order to secure an instructor, is required to form a class of at least 
twenty-five, each person to pay $1 for the course. The class must also 
furnish a suitable hall or other building in which to give instruction. 
The three courses embrace the following : Cooking, fifteen lectures and 
demonstrations on various lines of cooking, including fruits, vege- 
tables, cereals, eggs, meats, bread, cakes, salads, etc. Sewing, ten 
lessons, including waists, skirts, underwear, children's clothing, dresses, 
etc. with option of adjusting patterns, cutting and fitting, household 
sewing, etc. Home Nursing, ten lessons including the administration 
of food and medicine, emergencies, bandaging, disinfectants, the sick 
room, invalid cookery, etc. 

A brief article such as this cannot convey a clear idea as to the value 
of the work which is being done by the large band of practical and 
capable Institute members in the Province of Ontario. As time goes 
on the work seems to be appreciated more and more and we believe 
there is no organization which means more for the future development 
and stability of the rural districts of Ontario. 

The other Provinces of the Dominion, seeing the practicability and 
good results of the Women's Institute work, are forming similar socie- 
ties. In British Columbia, the institutes have been established for 



1913] Connecting School and Home 203 

several years and are doing excellent work. They now have something 
over thirty branches in Alberta, and Saskatchewan and Manitoba 
have given the women in the rural districts instruction along domestic 
science lines. A few organizations have been formed in each of these 
Provinces and, with the promised assistance from the Department of 
Agriculture, it is expected that the work will advance rapidly. In the 
eastern Pro\inces no systematic effort has been made to introduce the 
institute, although a few organizations have been estabUshed, and 
the prospects are that funds will soon be available for the encourage- 
ment of the work along somewhat similar lines to those established in 
Ontario. 

At the National Congress of Farm Women, held in Lethbridge, Alta., 
in October last, an Inter-Provincial organization was formed with the 
hope of making the institute work in the various provinces somewhat 
uniform and of introducing features of work which can be followed 
efifectively in all the Provinces. 

The day is not far distant when we shall have in the Dominion of 
Canada organizations of women's institutes reaching from the Atlantic 
to the Pacific, embracing active organizations in every Province. 

CONNECTING THE SCHOOL WITH THE FARM HOME.' 

A unique scheme for promoting more sympathetic and helpful 
relations between the rural school and the farm home is reported 
from Oregon. Credit for the project is due to L. R. Alderman, state 
superintendent of public instruction, who has outlined his plans as 
follows: 

That civilization is founded on the home all will agree. The school should be a 
real helper of the home. How can the school help the home? How can it help the 
home establish habits in the children of systematic performance of home duties, 
so that they will be efficient and joyful home helpers? One way is for the school 
to take into account home industrial work and honor it. It is my conviction, 
based upon careful and continuous observation, that the school can greatly increase 
the interest the child will take in home industrial work by making it a subject of 
consideration at school. A teacher talked of sewing, and the girls sewed. She 
talked of ironing, and they wanted to learn to iron neatly. She talked of working 
with tools, and both girls and boys made bird houses, kites, and other things of in- 
terest. A school garden was planned in a city, and one of the boys was employed 
to plow the land. Seventy-five children were watching for him to come with the 

1 Reprinted from U. S. Dept. Agr. Ofl&ce Expt. Stas. Ann. Rpt. 1911. 



204 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

team. At last he came driving around the corner. He could manage a team. He 
drove into the lot, and 150 eyes looked with admiration at the boy who could un- 
hitch from the sled and hitch on to the plow, and then as he, "man fashion" — 
lines over one shoulder and under one arm — drove the big team around the field, 
all could feel the children's admiration for the boy who could do something worth 
while. I have seen a girl who could make good bread or set a table nicely get the 
real admiration oi her schoolmates. 

The school can help make better home builders. It can help by industrial work 
done in the school, but as that is already receiving consideration by the press and 
in a few schools, I shall not in this short article treat of it. 

The plan I have in mind will cost no money, will take but little school time, 
and can be put into operation in every part of the State at once. It will create a 
demand for expert instruction later on. It is to give school credit for industrial 
work done at home. The mother and father are to be recognized as teachers, and 
the school-teacher put into the position of one who cares about the habits and 
tastes of the whole child. Then the teacher and the parents will have much in 
common. Every home has the equipment for industrial work and has somebody 
who uses it with more or less skill. 

The school has made so many demands on the home that the parents have, in 
some cases, felt that all the time of the child must be given to the school. But an 
important thing that the child needs along with school work is established habits of 
home-making, and these habits can come only from real home-making. What one 
does depends as much upon habit as upon knowledge. The criticism that is most 
often made upon industrial work at school is that it is so different from the work 
done at home that it does not put the child into that sympathetic relation with the 
home which, after all, is for him and the home the most important thing in the 
world. Juvenile institutions find that they must be careful not to institutionalize 
the child to the extent that he may not be contented in a real home. In my opinion 
it will be a great thing for the child to want to help his parents do the task that 
needs to be done and to want to do it in the best possible way. The reason that 
so many country boys are now the leading men of affairs is because early in life 
they had the responsibility of home thrust upon them. I am sure that the motto, 
"Everybody helps," is a good one. 

But one says, "How can it be brought about? How can the school give credit 
for industrial work done at home?" This may be accomplished by printed slips 
asking the homes to take account of the work that the child does at home under 
the instruction of the home, and explaining that credit will be given this work on 
the school record. These slips must be prepared for children according to age so 
that the child will not be asked to do too much, for it must be clearly recognized 
that children must have time for real play. The required tasks must not be too 
arduous, yet they must be real tasks. They must not be tasks that will put extra 
work on parents except in the matter of instruction and observation. They may 
well call for the care of animals, and should include garden work for both boys and 
girls. Credit in school for home industrial work (with the parents' consent) should 
count as much as any one study in school. 

To add interest to the work, exhibitions should be given at stated times, so that 
all may learn from each other and the best be the model for all. The school fairs 
in Yamhill, Polk, Benton, Lane, Wasco, and Crook Counties, together with the 



1913] Connecting School and Home 205 

school and home industrial work done at Eugene, have convinced me most thor- 
oughly that these plans are practicable, and that school work and home work, 
school play and home play, and love for parents and respect for teachers and fellow 
pupils can best be fostered by a more complete cooperation between school and 
home, so that the whole child is taken into account at all times. 

That the plan is practicable is indicated by a report made by A. I. 
O'Reilly, principal of the Spring Valley school, near Salem, Oregon. 
Under the home credit plan there in operation any pupils who desire 
to enter the contest may do so and compete for prizes, which, in this 
instance, include three S3 prizes and three $2 prizes which are placed 
in the bank to the account of the winners. 

The plan is to offer so many minutes' credit for each little task 
which the pupils perform about the house. For example, if the boy 
or girl builds the fire at home in the morning he is given 5 minutes' 
credit; milks a cow, 5 minutes for each cow; splits and carries in the 
wood, a 12-hour supply, 10 minutes; turns cream separator, 10 min- 
utes; cleans horses, 10 minutes for each horse; gathers the eggs, 10 
minutes; feeds chickens, cows, pigs, horses, 5 minutes for each kind 
of animal. For churning butter, 10 minutes are allowed; making 
butter, 10 minutes; blacking stove, 10 minutes; making and baking 
bread, i hour; making biscuits, 10 minutes; preparing breakfast 
for family, 30 minutes; preparing supper, 30 minutes; washing and 
wiping dishes, 15 minutes for each meal; sweeping floor, 5 minutes 
for each floor; dusting furniture, 5 minutes for each room; scrubbing 
floor, 20 minutes for each room; making beds, 5 minutes a bed; sleep- 
ing in room with window open, 5 minutes; bathing, 30 minutes for 
each bath; and a number of other classes of work is included. 

The one who has the most minutes to his or her credit at the end 
of a specified time is awarded the prize. 

You can see that it is not my intention to give them full credit for the time 
necessarily spent in home work. I have learned that this world does not give us 
full credit for our time. Had I learned it when I was younger I believe I would be 
a better man to-day. I have explained and demonstrated this to my school, thus 
preparing them early to learn to give more than they get. The plan is an agree- 
ment between each pupil and me. If he fails to live up to his part of it he should 
learn that the violation of his agreement always works a hardship. Perhaps I 
am teaching some practical business law here. 

The plan of the awards starts them on a commercial future and has resulted in 
my having to tell them all about savings accounts. 

I have ii pupils and receive 33 notes each morning from the parents. 



THE GRANGE AND HOME ECONOMICS. 
Elizabeth H. Patterson. 

Chairman Home Economics Committee, National Grange. 

In November, 191 2, the National Grange held its forty-sixth annual 
session in Spokane. This organization which has stood the test of 
time for nearly half a century is the only secret organization that 
admits women on an equal footing with the men and the only one that 
aims to train and educate its members to do better their daily work. 
Among the specific objects of the Order as set forth in the Declara- 
tion of Purposes are found the following: *'To develop a better and 
higher manhood and w^omanhood among ourselves; to enhance the 
comforts and attractions of our homes, and to strengthen our attach- 
ments to our pursuits;" "We especially advocate for our agricultural 
and industrial colleges that practical agriculture, domestic science, 
and all the arts which adorn the home, be taught in their courses of 
study." These statements would not be unusual or remarkable if 
written today, but when we consider that this Declaration of Purposes 
was adopted in 1874 we at once see the great wisdom and broadmind- 
edness of Mr. O. H. Kelley and the other founders of the Order. To 
Miss Carrie Hall is due the credit for admitting women and placing 
the home and woman's interests on an equal footing with the work of 
the farm. It would not be honest or just to claim that the Grange 
has always lived up to the high ideals set forth in the Declaration of 
Purposes. It was only after Ellen H. Richards had done her won- 
derful pioneer educative work that we find a sufiicient number of 
men and women strongly enough imbued with the idea of improving 
the home by the aid of science to really crystallize this great idea 
into practical results. 

In order to understand how the Grange can do home economics 
work it is necessary to know something of its organization and work- 
ing. The unit of the organization is the local Subordinate Grange, 
meeting regularly either weekly, bi-weekly or monthly. These imits 
combine to make the county group known as the Pomona Grange 
which meets quarterly. Again the units gather together in the state 

206 



1913] The Grange and Home Economics 207 

organization which holds an annual meeting. The state masters 
and their wives compose the national organization. Therefore there 
is direct contact between the thousands of local organizations scattered 
throughout 30 states and the central national organization. 

The Grange thus becomes a great power in legislative matters. 
This power has always been exercised for legislation beneficial to 
the farm and the home. Members of the Grange have worked for 
all of the bills for vocational education, first the Davis-Dolliver bill, 
then later the Page- Wilson bill, and the bill for extension work in 
home economics and agriculture known as the Lever bill. Not only 
have members spoken before Senate and House Committees but 
strong pressure has been brought to bear on Congress by the patrons 
throughout the country. The Grange will not withdraw from this 
fight and tvoU wage it imtil we have Federal aid for teaching agricul- 
ture and home economics in all the grade schools and high schools 
in the country, as well as good courses in the state agricultural col- 
leges and normal schools to prepare teachers for this work. 

At each meeting of the Subordinate and Pomona Granges there 
is an educational program arranged by the lecturer, including papers 
or lectures on agriculture, home economics or public questions. In 
the charge to the lecturer when he is installed is the following: "In 
selecting subjects, include the household and the home, as well as 
the farm and the field; for it is in the former that the rewards of labor 
upon the latter are fully enjoyed. A well ordered household is essen- 
tial to a happy home, and without a happy home no farm is fully a 
success." Unfortunately for many years the Grange programs did 
not give to the women the best advanced thought in home economics 
to aid them in their work in the same way that it gave men the best 
thought in scientific agriculture. The women were not alive to their 
needs and did not demand it, but there has been an awakening during 
the past few years. Everywhere, all over the country, lecturers are 
placing on the programs topics that make for home improvement and 
the members are either studying to prepare papers themselves or they 
are bringing speakers from their state colleges or other experts to 
give them a lecture on some home topic. The National Lecturer has 
prepared a hand-book to aid Subordinate Lecturers and home eco- 
nomics subjects have received a large share of his attention in this 
pubUcation. Many State Lecturers also have such hand-books for 
state work and in these home topics are generally given and home 
economics books recommended. 



2o8 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

In addition to these helps the National Grange has a Home Eco- 
nomics Committee to help in creating an interest in scientific home 
study and to disseminate information and aid in this work. It also 
tries to keep informed of the status of work in different states. Five 
years ago the National Grange began systematically to try to create 
an interest in home economics by publishing in the National Grange 
Monthly a series of popular home economics papers. Many of these 
papers were written by acknowledged experts so that although they 
were popular in style the information was scientifically correct. 
They included articles on sanitation, health, dietetics and cooking. 
This series was continued for about three years and served its purpose 
in arousing recognition of the subject and enthusiasm for it. 

The Home Economics Committee of the National Grange outlined 
the home economics work of the Grange for the year 1913 and made 
various recommendations for state work. In regard to agricultural 
fairs the report says: 

The exhibits at agricultural fairs and expositions are intended not only to attract 
and interest, but to educate. This education is done not only by the excellent 
display and arrangement, but by the competition for prizes and by the intelligent 
judging. Men place products of their own skill in competition with others, always 
aiming toward the ideal, and these products are judged and scored by points. 
The judging of live stock, horticultural and agricultural exhibits, has become a 
business and the managements of fairs and expositions spend large amounts of 
money to have this work done by experts, often bringing them from long distances, 
even across the entire continent. 

The fair should aim to educate the woman for her work as the man is educated 
for his and thus improve home conditions as well as farm conditions. The woman's 
department at fairs has not kept pace with the man's. The exhibits are not gen- 
erally confined to products showing the home-maker's skill, but often the grand- 
mother's patchwork quilt, a product of bygone days, still holds a prominent place. 
Such an exhibit is of no value to the modern housewife. At many fairs women's 
products are judged by the men who know nothing about the article in question, 
can not even tell the principles involved in the production or what constitutes the 
ideal. Canned fruit and vegetables are often judged from the appearance in the 
can, with no regard to quality and flavor. It is not uncommon to find fruit and 
vegetables only sterilized, looking well but having no practical value for the table, 
and yet being awarded the prize for appearance over something of practical 
value that does not make as good a show. 

Prof. J. B. S. Norton of the Maryland Agricultural Experiment Station, a prom- 
inent member of the Grange in Maryland, who has had much experience in exhibits 
and the methods of judging, began an investigation of how the best-known agri- 
cultural fairs and expositions were judging canned fruit and vegetables. Twenty- 
eight fairs responded to his request for information. Out of these twenty-one re- 
ported that they had no regular method of judging. Four said that the cans were 



1 9 13] The Grange and Home Economics 209 

opened and tested, showing an attempt at careful judgment, and only three reported 
a regular method of scoring points. He says, "Only in a few cases are any methods 
of scoring used on canned fruits in the larger exhibition fairs, etc., and rarely is 
there any time for it, but if such exhibits are to have any real value to the exhibitors 
or the public, some intelligent methods of scoring must be used. A few domestic 
science experts and others have devised score cards for fruit products and while 
some of them are very good it would be hard to imagine a greater dissimilarity in 
both points and values than they possess." 

There should be some standardizing of these methods of scoring. We recom- 
mend that the National Grange Home Economics Committee ask the American 
Home Economics Association to cooperate in this work by appointing a committee 
to standardize score cards for exhibits in cooking, preserving and needlework. 
We also recommend that each State Grange use its influence to have such standard- 
ized score cards used in judging women's exhibits at the fairs in its state." 

The National Grange recommended that each State Master be 
requested to present the matter of the Ellen H. Richards Memorial 
Fund to his State Grange and ask that it contribute something to 
this fund. 

BECOMMENDATIONS . 

The State Grange can aid home economics work in its state in the following 
ways: 

Arrange to have speakers at the State, Pomona and Subordinate meetings who 
will awaken interest in the importance of home economics. At most of our state 
colleges are men and women who are prepared to give help along these lines and 
would be glad to come to speak and thus get in closer touch with the Grange. In 
addition to these there are many good speakers, not connected with the state 
institutions, who are interested in rural work who would be glad to talk on subjects 
pertaining to the home. Your state board of health will probably cooperate with 
you willingly to furnish instructive speakers on sanitary and health subjects. The 
American Medical Association has started a council on Health and Public Instruc- 
tion with a secretary in each state. They will send speakers on health subjects 
free to meetings. A list of speakers with subjects and when and how to secure 
them can be obtained from the American Medical Association, 535 Dearborn 
Avenue, Chicago, 111. 

In this connection, it is recommended that each State Grange Home Economics 
Committee or Committee on Education prepare a list of speakers of the state 
with their charges. These could be exchanged with nearby states when desired. 
The state lecturer can aid by including home economics topics on the programs he 
outlines. At least one topic on the home could be given each month. 

These topics should be chosen with an idea of encouraging study on the question. 
Books of reference should be mentioned. Subordinate Granges that have libra- 
ries and State Granges that have traveling libraries should include a good selection 
of books touching on all home economics questions and also all government and 
state bulletins on home subjects. 



2IO The Journal of Home Economics [June 

Get in closer touch with your state college home economics department, first 
by becoming acquainted with the professors, then by interesting them to become 
members of the Grange and show them how such a step would be of mutual bene- 
fit. When your college gives a week's short course in economics or has a farmers' 
week help to advertise it and iirge the members of the Grange to attend. Each 
Subordinate Grange could well afford to send a delegate for such a course. The 
information thus gained by an intelligent woman would be brought back to the 
Grange and be fruit for thought and consideration for the whole year. Some 
Granges are giving scholarships at their state colleges for both regular and short 
courses. This is a good plan and productive of good not only to the recipient but 
to the whole Grange. If your college is not doing much for the farm woman, urge 
them to gradually adopt the methods and work found successful in other states. 

Demand that the fairs in your state adopt better methods for judging women's 
exhibits as suggested before in this report. 

Assist your college, station and extension department to get increased appropria- 
tions from your legislatures for doing work for the women as well as for the men. 
And finally make a supreme eflfort to help push a bill for vocational education 
through the next Congress. 

NAIIONAL GRANGE ACTIVITIES. 

After considering the suggestions made by the different states as mentioned be- 
fore in this report, we recommend that the National Grange Home Economics 
Committee cooperate with the State Grange in preparing lists of available speakers 
on home economics subjects. 

That it prepare for publication a leaflet giving a list of good reference books 
on home economics subjects. 

That with the help of some of the college home economics departments, it pre- 
pare a year's outline of study in home economics. 

The National Grange Home Economics Committee of 19 13 is 
again at work. We are preparing the list of reference books on home 
economics subjects and we hope to influence state circulating libraries 
to include these books. The question of standardizing score cards 
has been taken up with the American Home Economics Association 
and work has been started on the year's outline of study. 



THE HOME ENVIRONMENT AS AFFECTING THE 

PHYSICAL AND MENTAL GROWTH OF 

SCHOOL CHILDREN.' 

Sara Moulthrop Holbrook. 

This study was undertaken in an effort to determine the home 
conditions and their influence upon the physical and mental growth 
of a group of public school children. Of the 580 children studied, 
the answers from 22 were not sufficiently full and accurate, so these 
studies are based upon the answers of the remaining 558 children. 
These have been divided into eight groups as follows: 

Jewish girls, 175; Italian girls, 58; American girls, 38. Mixed group, 
girls: Negro, 4; Irish, 4; Scotch, i; French, 2; Swedish, 3; Danish, i; 
German, 7; Hungarian, i; total, 23. Total of all, 292. 

Jewish boys, 152; Itahan boys, 54; American boys, 36. Mixed 
group, boys; Negro, 5; Irish, 2; English, i; French, i; Swedish, 3; 
Danish, 4; German, 8; total, 24. Total of all, 266. 

The children were weighed and measured at school, and their 
scholarship, age, and health records obtained from school reports. 
Other facts were obtained from the answers to the following questions; 
(i) What do you have for breakfast? Dinner? Supper? 

(2) What time do you eat breakfast? Dinner? Supper? 

(3) Do you sit down at the table for meals, and about how long 
do you take for each meal? 

(4) Are you allowed to eat candy, peanuts, etc., between meals? 

(5) What food do you like best? 

(6) Is there any common food that you very much dislike? 

(7) Do you know what makes you dislike it? 

(8) Has your mother tried to have you like it; and how? 

(9) Do you like to try new foods? 

(10) Do you often have headaches? 

(11) Do you often have the stomachache? 

(12) What is your general health? 

(13) How many are in your family? 

(14) How many boarders? 

' From a thesis presented to the faculty of the Hartford (Conn.) School of 
Religious Pedagogy. 



2XZ 



212 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

(15) How many rooms have you? 

(16) How many windows in your bedroom, and do the windows 
open on a court, or on the street? 

(17) Do you have your bedroom windows open at night? 

(18) Do you air the house each day? 

(19) At what hour do you go to bed, and at what hour do you 
get up? 

(20) Do you have a weekly tub-bath? 

Teachers filled in the answers for children who could not write 
English. Comparison was made of the answers from children of the 
same family, and the statements of the children were verified, when- 
ever possible, by questioning the parents. Most of the American 
children were from the poorer and more ignorant families, hence the 
data cannot be considered as typical of the American child, but only 
of those living in the tenement sections of our cities. 

The families included from 2 to 14 members, the American and 
mixed groups averaging 5, the Jewish 6, and the ItaUans 7. The 
percentage of families taking boarders was 10 per cent in the American 
families, 25 per cent in the Jewish, 36.5 per cent in the ItaHan, and 
40 per cent in the mixed group. The average number of rooms per 
family among the Italians was 4, among the Jewish 5, among the 
American 5, and among the mixed group 6.8. A Danish family had 
60 boarders in 13 rooms. 

In a few ItaUan and Jewish families bedrooms without windows 
were reported. About half the windows opened on courts, small 
yards, or "gang-ways," Less than a quarter of the Americans and 
a little more than a quarter of the Jews, sleep without opening their 
windows at night, as do about a third of the mixed group and almost 
a half of the Italians. Many of those who opened windows at night 
had them open only an inch or two. With four or more occupying a 
room of small size the supply of fresh air would be quite inadequate 
even if the window were open wide. "It is found that an adult at 
rest needs about 3000 cubic feet of air per hour, that the functions 
of the body may continue. Children and the sick need more than 
this. Thus a room 18 feet by 18 feet by 9 feet would furnish the 
required air for one person for one hour without ventilation. At the 
end of the hour, the entire contents would need to be changed.^ 

Comparison of these figures with actual conditions in many homes 
makes evident at least one reason for the fact that so many children 

2 Household Hygiene, by S. Maria Elliott, p. 36. 



1913] T^^ Home Environment of School Children 213 

have listless faces and do not desire any breakfast. It is very difficult 
to convince some mothers of the harmlessness of fresh air. One 
mother in discussing her little boy's frequent colds said, "It is cer- 
tainly not my fault, for I never have the window open at night, and 
I have even put his cot in a closet which runs under the stairs and 
I shut the door almost close." Less than one-sixth of the Jews and 
Italians, and one-twelfth of the Americans and of the mixed group 
fail to air their home by day, but it is doubtful if this airing is done 
at all thoroughly. 

There is practically no difference between the bedtime of the boys 
and girls, but the boys rise earlier than the girls. The average time 
devoted to sleep is from nine to ten hours, though many get far less. 
Jewish children appear to get the most and the Itahan children the 
least sleep. 

Only 5 per cent of the American girls and 1 1 per cent of the American 
boys confessed to not having weekly baths. All the girls of the mixed 
group reported weekly baths, but 1 2 per cent of the boys of this group 
did not. In the Je\nsh group, 19 per cent of the boys and 26 per 
cent of the girls could not report a weekly bath, although some said, 
"Yes, in summer, but never in the winter." Conditions in this respect 
were found worst among the Italians, only 52 per cent of the girls 
and 31 per cent of the boys reporting weekly baths. Two said they 
had never had one, and another said only when he came to America. 
The child is not wholly to blame for this lack of cleanliness. Lawrence 
Veiller, who is familiar with tenement conditions, says: "To bathe in 
a tenement where a family of six occupy three rooms, often involves 
the sacrifice of privacy and decency, which are quite as important 
to social betterment as cleanliness."^ 

Having discussed the home conditions of the children, the next con- 
sideration is their diet. The amount and kinds of food required 
depend largely on age and condition of life. The digestive organs of 
a child are very delicate, and during early life especial care should be 
taken in the matter of food. The period of life from eight to fifteen 
years is one of growth. Much more time is spent indoors than pre- 
vious to the beginning of attendance at school. 

Children show a marked desire for sweets, and this desire is much 
better satisfied by eating dates, raisins and dried fruits, than by eating 
candy or even cake. The child of the tenement frequently consumes 
large quantities of cheap, highly colored candy, which is not only 

* Civics and Health, Wm. H, Allen, p. 9. 



214 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

impure, but which has often been exposed to dust and dirt. An 
aversion to fat meats is common ^^dth children, and in such cases 
fats from other sources should be substituted. In general, children's 
preferences in the matter of diet should be considered and wholesome 
food which will be agreeable to them should be supplied in sufficient 
quantities. 

ItaHan and Jewish families appear to suffer most from irregularity 
in meal time, some of the children who sell papers not eating supper 
until nine or ten o'clock. A considerable portion do not sit down to 
meals, 6 per cent of the Italians, 4.5 per cent of the mixed group, 
4 per cent of the Jewish, and 2 per cent of the American children 
getting only what a little Danish boy called "a. handover meal." 

Where the children are supposed to sit at table the conditions are 
often such as to produce an aversion to food. One mother, referring 
to her child who was far from well said, " She don't want nothings I 
fix; she so fussy." One day at noon the family of five were found 
grouped about a table in a room with no window open. A dish of 
stew stood upon the table, and the members of the family took what 
they desired from this dish with their fingers, sharing with a large 
cat which was seated on the dirty table! 

While the time devoted to a meal varied from two to sixty minutes, 
the great majority could say as did one child, "I am a quick eater." 
In most cases, probably insufficient time is spent at meals to permit 
of proper mastication. 

From 47 per cent to 83 per cent of the children said that they are 
allowed to eat candy and peanuts between meals. The Jewish mothers 
appear to be the most careful, or rather the least careless, in the matter 
of their children's diet. 

The proportion of children who have not more than two articles 
at each meal was from 17 per cent to 64.5 per cent. While this would 
not, in itself, be conclusive e\ddence that they were poorly nourished, 
a consideration of the dietary discloses a deficiency of protein, the 
body-building food material, in many cases. Of the Italian children, 
only one-half have more than two articles for supper, and less than 
50 per cent of the boys and about 70 per cent of the girls report foods 
rich in protein for any meal. 

Three things influence children in trying new foods: the odor, the 
appearance, and the impulse of imitation. This last is frequently 
evidenced by their teasing for a taste of something that older people 
are eating, and in their desire to overcome a dislike for some article 



1913] TJie Home Environtneni of School Children 215 

of food. Over 75 per cent of the children reported liking to try new 
foods, those of the mixed group being most hesitant about it. 

In answer to the question as to the favorite food, the great majority 
e.xpressed a preference for meat. With the Jewish children however 
meat holds second place, fruit being preferred to it, while their third 
choice is eggs. Fruit and vegetables^ are close rivals to meat ^ith 
all. A great variety of foods is named, many Americans giving cake 
or pie, and many ItaUans voting for macaroni. 

In the foods which are disUked, no such uniformity in taste is 
shown. Meat is most frequently mentioned by the Jewish children 
as the food to which they have the greatest aversion, while the ItaHans 
named cabbage and macaroni.^ Only about a third of the children 
could give any reason for their aversions, the majority mentioning the 
taste, and a smaller number the appearance. Less than one-half the 
mothers have tried to have their children overcome these dislikes, the 
American mothers and those in the mixed group seeming the most 
indifferent. Many of the mothers have coaxed or punished, or have 
refused to give any other food. Several of the Italian mothers try 
by putting the food on a clean plate or one that is pretty. Many 
children, especially the Jewish, are bribed with pennies. 

Because no glaring physical trouble has been discovered by the 
teachers of these children, none of them has been examined at school 
beyond taking the eye test and being questioned as to the frequency of 
headaches and stomachaches. The figures as to ear, tonsil, and ade- 
noid troubles are far from complete therefore, but even so, there is a 
large percentage of children who are suffering from these troubles. 
More than a quarter of all the girls, except the American, have eye 
trouble. On the whole the record of the boys is better. The Ameri- 
cans show a much better physical condition than the other nationaUties. 
From 30 per cent to 58 per cent of the children complain of headache 
and stomachache. The Americans have the lowest percentage of dis- 
eased children. 

* Potatoes were mentioned more often than any one vegetable. I do not feel 
prepared to say, from my study of these children, that children like vegetables. 
These children are so very limited in their dietaries that they have comparatively 
little chance to test various vegetables, and when they do eat them they are served 
in the simplest maimer. — Author. 

' These were the only two articles mentioned by any number. A large number 
could not give any answer. Perhaps the reason for this aversion is due to the 
fact that the Italians eat so much macaroni. — Author. 



2i6 The Journal of Eome Economics [June 

The girls of the mixed group are tallest and heaviest, the Italian 
girls the lightest, and the American and Jewish girls a little heavier 
than the ItaUan. The girls of these three groups average the same 
in height. The average of weight and height of the boys' groups 
parallel each other, with the Americans first and the Italians last. 

Although many of the older children are in the Jewish and mixed 
groups, the average age in these groups is lower than that of the 
other groups in the case of the boys, and as low in the case of the 
girls. Since many of the foreign children have to learn our language 
after entering the public school, the American children might be 
expected to be ahead of children of the same age of other groups in 
scholarship. The American boys do average youngest for a given 
grade, but the American girls average oldest. The Italian and Jewish 
girls average the same, and the girls of the mixed group the youngest. 
The boys of the mixed group and the Jewish boys show about the 
same average, but the Italian boys average quite a little older. 

In determining scholarship, both standing in the grade and grading 
according to age were considered. Dr. Ayers^ gives a table of normal 
ages of chOdren in the grades which he says "has been accepted by 
common consent as the normal ages for these grades by nearly all 
the schoolmen who have interested themselves in the problem." The 
following is his table: 

Normal ages oj children in the grades. 

years 

First grade 6 to 8 

Second grade 7 to 9 

Third grade 8 to 10 

Fourth grade 9 to 1 1 

Fifth grade 10 to 1 2 

Sixth grade 1 1 to 13 

Seventh grade 1 2 to 14 

Eighth grade 13 to 15 

Judged by this standard, a very large proportion is below normal; 
many are several years below. 

Only among the Jewish children were any found above grade. The 
American had the largest proportion up to normal grade, but the 
Jewish ranked well in comparison. The Italian and mixed groups 
had the smallest proportion up to normal grade. 

In scholarship in his grade the Jewish boy leads with the largest 
percentages of "Excellent," "Very good," and "Good," and none 
was marked "Very poor." A small number were marked "Poor" 

* Laggards in Our Schools, p. 38. 



1913] The Modern Domestic Art Movement 217 

and a somewhat larger number were marked "Fair." The proportion 
of Jewish boys recei\dng above "Fair" was 55.7 per cent, of the 
American boys 46.1 per cent, of the mixed group 34.5 per cent, and 
of the Italians 32.9 per cent. The Je%nsh girls stand at the head in 
scholarship with 55.3 per cent above "Fair," while equivalent stand- 
ing was attained by only 36.1 per cent of the mixed group, 33 per cent 
of the Americans, and 23 per cent of the ItaUans. 

These studies appear to indicate that, all things considered, the 
Jewnsh children have the most favorable home conditions, and the 
Italians the poorest. The American child is second in this respect, 
and the child of the mixed group third. The Jewish child seems to 
have the most nourishing food and the greatest variety. Yet the 
Jewish child does not rank as well as the American or the Itahan in 
the health record, except as to stomachache and headache, and here 
he stands best. The Jewish children are generally heavier and taller 
than the Italian of the same age. As might be expected, the Jewish 
child excels in scholarship, but on account of lack of knowiedge of 
our language is often found below grade. The fact that so many 
of these children are below grade suggests that there must be some 
reason other than the difl&culty of our language, for among the Ameri- 
can children studied, only about 50 per cent are up to normal grade. 

The children studied are comparatively few in number and not 
from the very poorest homes, but they present a view of the situation, 
and show the need for better conditions, a need every year growing 
greater as immigration from every land crowds our country. The 
poorly nourished boys and possibly the girls of today will be the 
voters of tomorrow. This crying need cannot be neglected. 



BEGINNINGS OF THE MODERN DOMESTIC ART 
MOVEMENT. 

C. F. Langworthy. 

The Centennial Exposition in Philadelphia, with its exhibits of 
household furnishings, etc., and its historical collections showing the 
wearing apparel, decorations, and ornaments of earlier times, was 
apparently the direct cause of a revival of interest in household deco- 
ration, needlework, and other similar household arts. This revival 
was one of the factors which has been important in firmly establishing 



2i8 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

domestic art as a branch of home economics and stimulating the 
present interest in it. 

Not long after the Centennial the Society of Decorative Art of New 
York was founded with the Art Interchange as its organ. Mrs. Candace 
Wheeler, Mrs. Burton Harrison, and others, through the work of the 
Society, the columns of this journal, and in other ways, tried to arouse 
a new interest in house decoration and household industries and to 
direct the new movement along rational lines. 

Mrs. Harrison's articles contributed to the first volume of the Art 
Interchange were later republished with additions to the text and with 
illustrations, in a volume entitled Woman's Handiwork (The Woman's 
Book, 1894, vol. 2, pp. 217-274). The subjects covered in this volume 
are decorative art, appropriateness, color, design, invention of sub- 
jects, conventional representation, imitative representation, art in the 
house, couching or laid work, feather-stitch, stem-stitch, drawn work, 
point and pillow laces, walls, furniture, and china. Other papers 
included in this edition are: "The Home Grounds," by Samuel Parsons, 
Jr.; "The Flower Garden," by John N. Gerard; "House Building," 
by Helen Churchill Candee; "House Decoration and Furnishing," 
by Mary Gay Humphreys; "Women's Opportunities in Town and 
Country," by Mary Cadwalader Jones; and "Supplementary Infor- 
mation," by various writers. 

The Society of Decorative Art, through its journal, the Art Inter- 
change, with its articles and its columns for questions and answers, 
did much to mold public taste and to popularize the esthetics of 
house furnishing and decoration. 

It would be well worth while for the bibliographer of domestic art 
to examine the earlier volumes of the Art Interchange issued while 
it was still the organ of the Society of Decorative Art for data 
regarding the earher years and growth of the present domestic art 
movement. 



TRAINING HIGH SCHOOL GIRLS FOR TRADE WORK. 
Meriel W. Willard. 

Not many years ago the college preparatory course was all that 
seemed needed in a high school for girls. Teaching was a suitable 
vocation for a girl who had the brains, the time, and the money to 
carry her through college. To enter college she must have a high 
school course planned for that particular end. As the entrance 
requirements for the girls were practically the same as for the boys, 
the high school studies were in most respects the same. If a girl 
did not intend to go to college, she must, nevertheless, follow the 
course marked out. She might shift a few subjects from one year 
to another, have more or less science, or more or less language work, 
but in the main little choice was allowed. If the intellectual food 
did not suit the needs of all the food was not changed. The pupils 
might readjust their interests or leave school but the course of study 
was inflexible. 

Several years ago, however, began a revolution in the high school 
ideals. Superintendent Maxwell said recently, ''The great end and 
aim of all public education is to develop useful citizens." The 
field, too, has widened. Where hundreds of girls formerly went to 
high school there are now thousands; where only the selected few 
entered, and to a large extent finished the four years, now all sorts 
and conditions come, but only about one-half remain for the four 
years. These girls move like a great army from elementary school 
to the next step in life preparation — the new high school. The laws 
are so made that they all must attend, if only for a few weeks, until 
they have days enough to their credit to secure working papers. 

Girls in a city high school represent all types of girlhood — the 
bright, the dull; the strong, the weak; the pretty, the plain; the girl 
from the sheltered home of culture and peace, the girl from the 
crowded tenement who has no help, no quiet, not even a place to 
keep her school books; the girl who has time and money, and the 
girl who feels the pressure of want and who has only the shortest 
possible time to prepare for her vocation. 

219 



2 20 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

What can the schools do to meet and supply all these needs? Girls 
as wage-earners are factors in our city life and are easily induced to 
leave school. There are far too many unskilled workers in the ener- 
vating trades; girls should be kept in school and away from this 
kind of work. Many families must have the help of the sixteen-year- 
old girl and she should be prepared for her work, for the cares of life 
settle upon the young shoulders all too soon. All these girls have a 
right to their girlhood — they all have a right to the best and happiest 
three or four years that the schools can give. 

Many school systems are trying to solve this problem of modern 
education. In some cities there are specialized schools of various 
kinds and the pupils are classified or segregated as they choose which 
school to attend. Other cities have the composite type, in which may 
be found all kinds of work. Other cities still have only the conven- 
tional academic or classical high schools. New York City has prac- 
tically all kinds — academic, manual training, commercial and trade, 
and what is of especial interest just now, the Washington Irving 
High School, a composite high school for girls. This school attracts 
all types of girls from all parts of the great city. There are now 
over 5000 girls on its register. The view-point of these girls is 
naturally varied. The educational needs are almost as different as 
the types of the girls. They must either have careful guidance 
upon entering, or the first choice should be so general that change is 
easy if a girl slips into the wrong place. 

The ideal of the Washington Irving High School is rather unusual, 
for the intelligent and efl&cient development of every girl is consid- 
ered far more important than the attainment of high scholarship 
marks by the selected few. That teacher is called skillful who brings 
her entire class up to passing in any given subject, not through neglect- 
ing the super normal, but because every pupil is fairly worked with, 
talked to, helped, above all encouraged. Homes are visited and many 
a girl has another chance because conditions are understood. It 
means something for a girl to be early every day if she has to dress 
little brothers and sisters and take them to school before starting 
herself. More sympathy is felt for poor work in English if it is 
known that English is never spoken in the home. 

The ability to play as well as the ability to work is one of the 
habits that this school tries to develop. The capacity for true enjoy- 
ment is limited in many girls, and city girls do not know how to play 
in groups. Pleasures in the city are apt to become passive, for the 



1913] Training High School Girls for Trade Work 221 

average girl prefers going to the theatre to s\^imming or skating, 
and the dance halls and the cheap moving picture shows are near at 
hand. The school that stands for social service must compete with 
the crude pleasures of the street, and the school that keeps its pupils 
these days must oflfer attractions that arouse and interest, attractions 
that develop the taste for wholesome pleasure, a taste that once 
acquired is a life long blessing. To this end the girls in the Washington 
Irving High School dance and sing, they play basket ball and learn to 
swim, they have clubs and class parties, they dramatize plays and give 
them to appreciative audiences. Any girl who is a good story-teller 
or a writer finds her talent strengthened by much practice. Joy, 
which is a natural heritage to girls in the country town, is unknown in 
the life of most city school girls. To supply this need and to unify 
this enormous group of girls, there are every term — sometimes oftener 
— "Get-together-parties," where the entire school stops its usual work 
and everyone assists in making the good time. Each group has some 
share in the big show. It is a wonderful sight to watch 5000 girls, each 
one a part of a great play or game; the dramatic instinct is strong 
in the New York girl of today, and a "Vision of Truth" is well worth 
seeing. At one of these parties, one feels the same fusing of elements 
that is often felt in small towns when some public demonstration 
brings everyone in touch with his neighbor, but which is rarely felt in 
a great city, particularly among girls. This habit of play! Everyone 
needs to acquire it and to see the bright side of things. Teachers as 
well as trade workers are often inclined to add up their burdens and 
utter complaints instead of finding something to be glad about. 

The treasures of the city are also made real; and frequent excursions 
are taken by all departments. Is there a particular exhibit in any 
gallery, many classes see it. Is there some special work shown in 
another school or college, interested pupils go, and later discuss and 
write about it. The regular art galleries and museums are places 
that over-awe a little girl v/ho has never been north of 14th Street. 
But frequent visits make it a simple and natural thing to spend a 
free hour or two seeing world-famous works of art or the wonders of 
science. The zeal the average adult shows in sightseeing in a foreign 
city, compared to her lack of interest or knowledge of the beauties 
of her own city, is a striking illustration of the need of this kind of 
education. 

The developing and training of leaders is another aim of this school. 
This is noticeable at all gatherings, the pupils conduct everything, 



222 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

assemblies are like clubs. Parliamentary law will be an easy problem 
for any Washington Irving High School girl when she is a club officer. 
This is fine training for industrial leaders, for girls accustomed to 
command and lead in school will make good workers and dependable 
directors when they find themselves in the business world. Like any 
group of society, school girls may be classified as lifters and leaners. 
The proportion of lifters in this school is fairly high. 

The work of the Washington Irving High School is as varied as its 
social activities. Its ideal is to be truly composite — a complete 
school; one so well equipped and so elastic in its structure that any 
girl may by conscious or perhaps unconscious selection find her place 
— the particular environment that shall help her to grow to be her 
best self. 

When the twelve or fifteen hundred girls, fresh from elementary 
school, register at the beginning of every term, one wonders where so 
many girls come from and what they will all be a little later. The 
first year offers them a choice of a three or a four years' course — 
the one leading to the technical diploma, the other to the regular 
high school diploma. In either, the work of the first year is more or 
less uniform, and at the end of the year it is easy to make a change 
from one to the other. 

Pupils who elect the academic course, as about one-fourth do, have 
practically chosen their vocation, they usually come to high school 
with this decision made, and they all wish to be teachers and have 
before them the regular college preparatory work. The girls in the 
three years' course do not make their electives imtil the end of the 
first year, by this time they have found themselves and know what 
they want to do. The older girls in the several departments meet 
and talk to the younger girls about their work. An assembly is given 
by each department, the work is shown, and the course of study 
described. Graduates who are working in offices and shops come back 
and relate their experiences, the wages they receive, the hours they 
work, etc. The iB girls hear about art, dressmaking, library train- 
ing, commercial openings, and they are then quite ready to make their 
decisions. It is usually found that the commercial group is by far 
the largest, for New York is a commercial city, and there seems to be 
an endless number of positions for girls trained in public and private 
schools. The ease in securing positions and becoming immediate wage 
earners is a strong factor in the popularity of this department. 



1913] Training High School Girls for Trade Work 223 

The art course attracts many fine girls. They should naturally 
have some talent in their specialty and they also need to come from 
homes where the financial pressure is not too great. The road to 
"art" is long and the young worker is not always paid high wages. 
The work of this department is varied, and as a girl shows aptitude, 
she is allowed to specialize in certain lines. Costume illustration is 
a strong feature, and good positions are secured by the exceptional 
girls. "General Art" covers a wide field; it requires great power of 
application and real skill must be attained, for the school standard 
should be on a par with the trade standard. 

To the sewing and dressmaking come a large number of girls. It 
is a fair statement that some of the best and some of the poorest 
material in the entire school deliberately choose this department, or 
drift or drop back into it for one more trial in high school. Every 
class is a sociological problem, and several nationalities ^nll be found in 
each group. The Italian girls usually elect sewing; so do many of 
the Irish and German girls; while almost all the colored girls in the 
school are found here. From the start about one-half intend to be 
workers in the dressmaking and allied trades, although a fair propor- 
tion take the work because they want it for home use; others because 
the manual work is easy for them, and a few because the pretty 
clothes that are made attract them and appeal to their girlish vanity; 
a curious mixture of motives; but whatever the motive, they are 
interested and held in school. They develop and change in a 
remarkable way and a large percentage remains to graduate. 

The school, with its many-sided interests and different phases of 
work, is a true democracy, there is no feeling of caste. Every girl 
stands or falls through her own personality, never because she belongs 
to one department or another. Initiative is found as often in a sewing 
as in a Latin class; a play comes as naturally from an art student 
as from an academic special. When the graduates come back they 
bring stories of success from college or shop; and what is perhaps the 
best proof of appreciation and loyalty, send all their young sisters 
to receive the same life preparation. 



RELATION BETWEEN OCCUPATION AND CRIMINALITY 
OF WOMEN: A SUMMARY. 

Marguerite B, Lake. 

The report on the Relation Between Occupation and Criminality of 
Women/ being volume 15 of the Report on Condition of Women and 
Child Wage Earners in the United States, recently published by the 
Commissioner of Labor, and prepared by Mary Conyngton, takes up 
in detail many questions which have been asked repeatedly during 
the past thirty or forty years. How has the change in modern indus- 
trial conditions affected the character of the women entering the 
business world? Has it increased the amount of criminality among 
women? What effect has the occupation upon the morals of women? 
How does the morality of women today compare with that of thirty 
years ago? In this report Miss Conyngton answers these questions 
from careful investigations of the records of reformatories, jails, and 
police courts in six states of the Union which have been greatly affected 
by the entrance of women into industrial life. Although it is recog- 
nized that probably only one-third of the crime committed in any 
community becomes known and is punished, yet these records show 
unmistakably the tendency of the various classes toward disregard of 
the law. ''Given persons of approximately the same class, if we find 
that out of 100 following one pursuit 20 are in jail or prison, while 
of 100 following another occupation only 5 are under sentence, there 
is certainly groimd for considering that the first pursuit needs looking 
into." 

As regards the education of the 3229 offenders examined, it is inter- 
esting to note that the woman of any education was a rarity, that 
not one college graduate or college student was among the number, 
only two or three of the entire number had attended a normal school 
or business college, a small number had been to high school, and a 
few had received a grammar school education. The majority are 
untrained and unintelligent. The records of the 3229 offenders were 
examined in regard to occupation, conjugal condition, literacy, nativ- 

1 Report on Condition of Women and Child Wage-Earners in the United 
States. In 19 Volumes. Volume 15: Relation Between Occupation and Crimi- 
nality of Women. Prepared under the direction of Chas. P. Neill, Commis- 
sioner of Labor, by Mary Con5mgton. 

334 



1913] Relation Between Occupation and Criminality 225 

ity, and earliest occupation and occupation at time of arrest, so that 
the report is very full for the states and communities examined. In 
a table comparing the occupations of the offenders: "It is at once 
apparent that by far the largest proportion of offenders comes from 
the group engaged in domestic and personal service, and that the 
only subdi\asion under this general head furnishing more than its 
proportionate share of misdemeanants or criminals is that of servants 
and waiters." These workers, although they constitute only 24.1 per 
cent of the breadwinners, furnish 70.3 per cent of the offenders, 
nearly three times their proper share. 

These figures are striking when compared with the proportion of 
women engaged in manufacturing and mechanical pursuits which 
"group includes all the mill and factory hands, the garment and 
flower makers, the workers in fur and feathers, all the overworked 
and underpaid members of the sweated trades. It contains 24.8 per 
cent of all female workers over sixteen, or just a trifle more than 
are engaged as servants and waiters, yet it furnishes but 16.67 P^r 
cent of the offenders, against 70.34 per cent from the group of 
servants and waitresses. That is, with practically the same number 
in each group, the servants and waitresses furnish more than four 
times as many offenders as those engaged in manufacturing and 
mechanical pursuits. 

"The women engaged in trade and transportation make an even bet- 
ter showing than their sisters of the factories and the mills 

Here, too, is found the largest proportion of young women between 
sixteen and twenty-four, the age when the character is forming 
and when a girl might be expected to yield most easily to adverse 

influences, the crime age, according to some authorities 

Yet these workers furnish to the whole group of offenders studied 
only one-third of their proportionate representation. And this fact 
becomes the more striking when it is remembered that the investi- 
gation was carried on chiefly in industrial centers, where workers of 
this kind are most numerous and where their temptations are greatest. 
. Telephone and telegraph operators give about one-half 
of their proportion." 

Since this investigation was confined to limited areas where local 
conditions might easily modify results several cities were studied 
carefully — Cleveland, O., Rochester, N. Y., and Paterson, N. J. 

Of Paterson, N. J., a city of large silk manufactures, an industry 
peculiarly adapted to women. Miss Conyngton says: "It is to say the 
least unexpected that in this mill town, where those engaged in domestic 



226 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

and personal service form only 17.8 per cent of the working female 
population they should furnish over 60 per cent of this group of 
offenders, which is considerably over three times their proportion. 
Among the group of servants and w^aitresses, the situation is still 
more marked; although they form practically but one-tenth of the 
working female population, they furnish about six-tenths of the offend- 
ers having gainful occupations The great disproportion 

of servants and waitresses does not seem exphcable on grounds of 
nationahty or race; nor does the age composition of the two groups 
afford an explanation of the difference, since among the servants 
only 44.7 per cent are between sixteen and twenty-four, while among 
the silk-mill operatives 63.4 per cent are in this age period." The 
two other cities give about the same figures, those being engaged in 
domestic service and as waitresses furnishing more than 85 per cent 
of the offenders. 

Massachusetts, as one of the leading manufacturing states, was 
studied wdth the same view. Here those engaged in manufacturing 
and mechanical pursuits furnish about two-thirds of their propor- 
tionate number, the textile workers not their full proportion, while 
dressmakers, milliners, and seamstresses give only about one-seventh 
of their numerical representation; those in trade and transportation, 
one-sixth, saleswomen, one- third. "Among those engaged in domestic 
and personal service, the ratios do not differ widely from those found 
in the general table. Constituting 32.9 per cent of the women gain- 
fully employed, they furnish 67.2 per cent of the group of offenders, 
or something over twice their proportionate number. The great 
majority of these wTongdoers come from the servants and waitresses, 
who form a trifle over one-fifth of the gainfully employed women, 
but furnish three-fifths of the misdemeanants and criminals. While 
nearly 60,000 women employed in the textile mills furnish only 16.4 
per cent of these offenders, nearly 70,000 engaged as servants and 
waitresses give 60.1 per cent. Those engaged in trade and transpor- 
tation are nearly two-thirds as many as the servants and waitresses, 

yet they furnish only one-twenty-ninth as many offenders." 
* * * * 

"The statistics discussed show that by far the greater number of 
women gainfully employed who had reached the prisons and peniten- 
tiaries came there from the pursuits which have for generations been 
recognized as peculiarly woman's work, and that the newer industries 
opened to them in the last thirty years furnish very much less than 



1913] Relation Between Occupation and Criminality 227 

their proportion. Wherever the occupational distribution of these 
offenders is studied, whether as an undivided group, in single cities, 
under varying industrial conditions, or in one of the largest manufac- 
turing states of the Union, the general situation is found to be the 
same; the wage-earning domestic pursuits give far more, the manu- 
facturing and commercial pursuits far less, than their proportion of 
offenders. From place to place the proportions vary slightly, but the 
fact remains unchanged." 

And again: "Up to this point it has been found that wherever the 
facts concerning the occupations of female offenders could be obtained 
by far the larger number, both absolutely and relatively, have come 
from the traditional pursuits of womankind. The import of the 
figures seems vmmistakable, and while the number studied is not large 
it gains in importance from the fact that the locaHties considered are 
those in which the newer industries open to women are most promi- 
nent So far as statistics indicate, it may be considered 

certain that if there has been any proportionate increase in the amount 
of criminality among women since the opening up of these newer 
occupations it is not due to the occupations. The prison population 
is not recruited from the ranks of the saleswomen, the clerks and 
stenographers, the packers and shippers, and telephone and telegraph 
operators who have increased so rapidly within the last few decades." 

The testimony of officials was also taken in regard to the type of 
offenders. "At every prison, workhouse, and reformatory where in- 
vestigations were made, careful inquiry was made for the women in 
the newer occupations, the saleswomen, the clerks, stenographers and 
bookkeepers, but the reply invariably was that such women did not 
come to such places. In a few of the factory towns there was a 
variation in the reply. 'We get mostly the girls from the unskilled 
branches of mill or factory work,' would be the answer. 'We have 
some skilled workers, spinners and weavers, but they are mostly older 
women who have married and brought up children, and have begim 
drinking from one cause and another. We don't get the smart work- 
ers.' One matron who had had twenty years experience in prison 
work summed up the situation concisely: 'Wherever I've been we got 
the low-grade women, the women who did the hardest and poorest 
paid work in the community. In the last place where I was matron 
there weren't any factories, and there the women all came from the 
poorest kind of domestic service. Here there's nothing but factories, 
so they come from them.' Yet in the next town, also a factory place, 



2 28 Th€ Journal of Home Economics [June 

it seemed there was a lower grade possible. A certain probation 
ofl&cer went over his list of women in confinement or on probation, 
giving his experience with each and his estimate of her character and 
mentality. They were unskilled workers, employed in certain mills 
which did not have the best of reputations either for wages paid or 
for fairness of treatment. 'These women wouldn't be wanted in the 
better class of mills,' said the ofl&cer. 'Probably they couldn't get in 
at all. They're all dull, some of them drink, and they aren't the 
kind of women you'd want to hire yourself if you were running any 
concern. They are doing the poorest grade of work in the whole 
place, but they are hardly capable of doing anything better." 

Domestic service seems to be the occupation open to the lowest 
grade of workers, those who could not possibly secure or retain a 
place in any well-organized industry. The servant who is found in 
jail is not usually the trained domestic worker but an unskilled worker 
of the poorest type. These servants also do not come from the homes 
of the better class. "They are apt to work for people whose stand- 
ards are but little higher than their own. Their work is often carried 
on under unhygienic conditions, their hours are long and irregular, 
and their mistresses frequently 'awful nagging.' They can not do 
their work well enough to take any intelligent interest in it and the 
day becomes a lonesome and monotonous round of drudgery. They 
have no prospect of rising to anything higher, so that the spur of 
ambition does not drive them forward in the right way and there is 
no social standard of their own class to hold them back from the 
wrong. 

"Apart from these general disadvantages, domestic service has 
one or two special drawbacks tending to increase its contributions to 
the ranks of lawbreakers. The temptation to theft is constant and 
the danger of discovery less than in most other forms of industry. 
Domestic service also makes a very bad showing with 
respect to offenses against chastity, but this again is partly due to the 
fact that women can secure employment in it when they are of too low 
grade to be employed elsewhere. Nevertheless the number of better- 
class servants who had erred in this way makes it seem certain that 
there are some special temptations in this direction inherent in the 
occupation. Such temptations are not far to seek. The loneliness of 
the life leads a girl to seek company in her hours of freedom, and too 
often this company must be found and entertained on the streets. 
If the men of her employer's family have any desire to mislead her, 



1913] Relation Between Occupation and Criminality 229 

her position makes it peculiarly easy to do so, while if the girl her- 
self happens to be one of the moral imbeciles before discussed her 
position likewise gives her peculiar opportimities for spreading moral 
contagion. The isolation of the girl deprives her of the protection 
other workers find in the publicity of their lives, and the lack of social 
standing which seems at present inseparable from her occupation 
takes away a powerful incentive to right living. 

"In the case of intemperance, and its allied oflfense, disorderly con- 
duct, it seems probable that the large proportion from domestic 
service is due mainly to the grade of workers, rather than to tempta- 
tions inherent in the occupation." 

In conclusion, in regard to the relation of occupation to criminality, 
the statistical study revealed that of the more than 3000 women 
offenders examined 80 per cent came from their own homes or from 
the traditional pursuits of women, and a little less than 12 per cent 
from all other lawful occupations. That is, those engaged in domestic 
and personal service furnished more than t^^-ice their proportionate 
number, while those engaged in manufacturing and mechanical pur- 
suits gave less than two-thirds their share, and those in trade and 
transportation one-third of their proportionate representation. Appar- 
ently the newer occupations have a steadying influence in themselves, 
or they do not attract the class of women most Ukely to offend against 
the law. Therefore it seems that the majority of offenders do not 
come from domestic and personal ser\dce because these occupations 
are ones that lead women into conflict with the laws, but because 
they are the principal occupations open to the kind of women likely 
to come into conflict with the law, and also because these occupations 

have in themselves few restraining influences for such women. 
* * * * 

In reply to the question as to the increase of criminality among 
women the evidence pointed markedly to the fact that not only is 
criminality not increasing among women but that it is absolutely 
decreasing. "Moreover, the officials are also agreed that during the 
last thirty years, the period within which these fields have been 
opened up to women, and in which the great increase in women wage- 
earners has been along these newer lines, there has been no increase of 
female criminality which could be traced directly or indirectly to their 
entrance upon these occupations. The verdict of experience confirms 
the showing of the prison records, that the great mass of women 
offenders come from the pursuits in which women have long been 



230 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

engaged. The 'widening of their sphere' of industrial activity can 
not be held responsible for any marked proportionate increase of 
criminality among women." 

"Now it is the general opinion among prison workers that the 
number of female offenders is diminishing In one fac- 
tory town where a decade ago a new house of correction with a large 
wing for women was built the number of female offenders has so 
diminished that it is not considered worth while to maintain a matron, 
and the women under sentence are boarded at the house of correction 
of a neighboring community." 

"No one contends that the standard of enforcement of law has 
been lowered in Massachusetts during the last dozen years; conse- 
quently there seems no escape from the conclusion that while the 
number of women gainfully employed has been increasing every- 
where, in that state at least, the relative number of female offenders 
has diminished." 

An investigation was also made into the relation of occupation to 
immorality, and 100 women who had made a financial success of 
immorality were examined. In conclusion occupational influences 
seem to be almost nil. In 16 cases a connection could be traced, but 
in all but 5 the relation was merely incidental not causal. Want 
also seems to have played a very small part in leading women astray, 
but serves to keep them in the wrong path when once the start has 
been made. The number of cases examined was small so that the 
results must be used with caution, but they seem to confirm the 
conclusions: That there is Httle connection between occupation and 
immorality, or want and immorality; that a considerable number of 
those having any occupation came from the ranks of waitresses, whose 
occupation has often been cited as offering unusual temptations; that 
this preponderance is due to the attraction which these very tempta- 
tions possess for some of those yielding to them; that these women, 
the more intelligent class of female wrongdoers, go wrong because of 
causes operative long before they enter the industrial world. 

The lessons to be drawn from this report are obvious, however 
they may conflict with our preconceived ideas of housework as a 
business. Its loneliness, its lack of regular hours and freedom for 
evenings and Sundays, the fact that there is little chance for pro- 
motion and no class-feeling or standards to live up to, are all agamst 
it as it is at present conducted. 



TEXTILE LABELING LAW. 

Hon. Victor Murdock, Representative from Kansas, introduced in 
the sixty-second Congress a bill ''pro\'iding for the labeling and tagging 
of all fabrics and articles of clothing intended for sale which enter 
into interstate commerce, and proxiding penalties for misbranding." 
The bill would make unlawful the manufacture in any territory or 
the District of Columbia, of ''misbranded fabrics or articles of cloth- 
ing of wool, cotton, silk, hair, or fiber, in whole or part." Further, 
the bill protects every state and territory from the shipment of mis- 
branded fabrics and articles of clothing into the state or territory, 
whether from abroad or from some other state or territory. The 
bill adopts as standards "pure wool," to mean sheep's wool not 
prexiously used in the manufacture of any other article; "woolen 
goods" to mean goods or fabrics composed wholly of such wool; 
and "mixed goods" to mean goods and fabrics not composed wholly 
of pure wool, or wholly of cotton, linen, and silk respectively. Fab- 
rics and articles of clothing must be marked, tagged, or labeled in 
plain letters, and the mark, tag, or label, shall show the proportion 
of each of the constitutent fibers or other materials or substances of 
which such goods are composed; all fabrics and articles which are 
composed wholly of cotton must be labeled "cotton," etc. A mis- 
statement of the percentage is deemed a misbranding. No dealer 
shall be prosecuted when he can establish a guarantee signed by the 
wholesaler, jobber, or manufacturer. Misbranded articles may be 
seized in transportation and the samples of imported fabrics and arti- 
cles shall be examined from time to time. Articles not manufactured 
for sale do not require labeling, nor do articles which are not shipped 
from state to state or imported. Linens or trimmings for garments 
do not require separate labeling. Fabrics or clothing which has been 
once used do not require labeling. 

The proposed law places the administration of the act with the 
Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of Agriculture, and the 
Secretary of Commerce. 

This bill has the limitation of all federal legislation with regard to 
commerce in that it can reach only goods passing from one state to 
another. It leaves the whole field of manufacture of goods within 
the states for local consumption to be considered by separate stata 
legislation. It proposes the beginning in an important field of leg- 
islation. Copies of the bill can be secured from Mr. Murdock. 



231 



THE VOCATIONAL AND CULTURAL VALUE OF 
DOMESTIC SCIENCE.! 

Marion Talbot, 

Professor of Household Administration and Dean of Women of 
the University of Chicago. 

In the United States there is a strong movement in favor of what 
is called vocational education. Many people assert that present edu- 
cational methods are not sufficiently directed toward the future needs 
of children and young people and that there must be a radical change 
of methods if the future workers of the world are to be effective pro- 
ducers. On the other hand it is as stoutly maintained that making 
a child immediately productive is not the whole object of an educa- 
tional system, that life means for most people and should mean for 
all people more than mere physical existence, that there are moral, 
intellectual, social, and spiritual qualities to be trained and made 
useful, and that consequently the vocational idea must be made more 
broadly inclusive than some of its advocates have the vision to see 
is necessary. 

In this situation the teacher of domestic science has a great oppor- 
tunity and a real privilege, for it is within her power to realize both 
aims of education and to develop efficiency in the physical activities 
of living and to train in ideals of character as well as in power to 
contribute to the larger social well-being of the community. Indeed 
a teacher who is not only proficient in the technical aspects of her 
subject, but reahzes the larger implications it contains, is in a position 
to make an exceptionally great contribution towards the solution of 
the problem. A brief survey will show what the domestic science 
teacher should consciously have in mind as results to be attained. 

(i) In all forms of education the acquirement of information is 
naturally one of the first ends. It is doubtful if any one line of train- 
ing affords an opportunity for a wider range of knowledge than does 
domestic science. Useful facts and theories in every field may be 
drawn upon to serve as subject matter. Chemistry, physics, botany, 
physiology, bacteriology, languages, history, economics, civics, psy- 
chology, all may serve as sources of knowledge which come to full 

1 Prepared for the Second International Congress for the Teaching of Household 
Economy. Ghent, Belgium, June, 1913. 

232 



1913] Vocational and Cultural Value of Domestic Science 233 

value when they find expression in the development of human life. 
The experience of the domestic science teacher need be very brief to 
show her that every department of knowledge may contribute to the 
realization of her ends. As has been said by Mrs. E. H. Richards, 
"domestic science is the keystone in the arch of all the sciences." 

(2) Whatever path the child may follow in the future there will be 
need of giving the mind power of control over the body. Domestic 
science furnishes an admirable means of securing manual dexterity, 
if skill in manipulation is consciously kept in mind and the acts of 
brain and hands are properly coordinated. 

(3) Most children need to be trained in habits of order and system. 
The careful and thrifty use of applicances and materials, the planning 
of resources, economy in taking steps, may well be shown in teaching 
household operations. Such systematic and orderly habits will prove 
of great value later in life when the day 's work threatens to overwhelm 
with its complexity. 

(4) Neatness and cleanliness, or, in other words, training in hygiene, 
are matters which the domestic science teacher should have in mind. 
Children may well be taught not to handle food materials imless they 
are neat in their persons and clean in their personal habits. In this 
way tendencies may be started which will prove of great value in 
later life. There are also many opportimities for teaching the prin- 
ciples of sanitation, as for example, securing proper ventilation, the 
right use of plumbing and effective methods of cleaning dishes and 
utensils, as well as of caring for food so that it will not undergo un- 
wholesome changes or be subject to infection from insects. 

(5) Domestic science should serve as a means of developing the 
sense of beauty and fitness. The crude tastes of the child may be 
carefully directed through the agency of different household activities. 
Elaboration of food, clothing and household furnishings may easily 
be shown to be in poor taste, while true standards of beauty may be 
slowly revealed to the child through its growing opportunities to 
make aesthetic judgments and to combine the useful and the beautiful. 

(6) One purpose of education should certainly be to strengthen the 
power of observation. Domestic science deals primarily with facts 
and processes which are an intimate part of the child's experience, 
so intimate in fact that they are often passed unobserved. Using 
them as a starting point a skillful teacher may accomplish a great 
deal in awakening the child's power to observe what is going on about 
him and to seek the reasons for what he observes. He will then gain 



234 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

in power to control his en\dronment as well as to experience that joy 
in thinking which leads to the still greater joy of doing vnih intelli- 
gence and efficiency. 

(7) Throughout all the training the significance of expending time, 
money, and strength may be constantly pointed out or learned from 
well-directed efforts. There are vmnumbered chances to impress upon 
the child the importance of using himian life for the best and worthiest 
ends, acting with and for others. 

In brief, training in domestic science should be informational, physi- 
cal, disciplinary, hygienic, aesthetic, observational, ethical, and social- 
izing, or, in still briefer terms, it should be awakening and cultural as 
well as vocational. 

The object of training for household management may be otherwise 
expressed. The education of every girl should secure her best devel- 
opment as a human being w^th individual powers and aspirations, as 
a good citizen prepared to do her part in promoting the common 
weal, and as a trained worker competent to perform such service as 
will justify her existence as a member of the social group in which 
she is placed. 

Domestic science should keep all these ends in \iew in training 
the child. Vocational education will make several demands. The 
service which the girl will render in the future must be professional, 
not casual, in its nature. In other words, it must be of value. As 
housekeeper or manager, she may be paid in money; as housewife or 
philanthropist, her work must be worthy of payment. She must be 
expert or able to control, rather than be controlled. She must know 
how to grapple with problems and deal effectively with unexpected 
situations. In other words she must have executive ability directed 
by intelligence and knowiedge. 

She must be familiar with the materials which are under her direc- 
tion, such as shelter, food, clothing, and furnishings, as well as with 
the principles of sanitation, dietetics and buying. A knowiedge of 
aesthetic principles, of art and design and color, will add to her effi- 
ciency. 

Whether married or single, she is likely to have the oversight of 
children or to be more or less responsible for them. Here physiology, 
child hygiene, psychology, and the principles of education are greatly 
needed. Whether she is a householder or not, she needs to have the 
elementary principles of civics and law at her command and also be 
familiar with simpler transactions in business and money matters. 

It is interesting for one who is working with young students to 



1913] Vocational and Cultural Value of Domestic Science 235 

notice how the so-called drudgery of the home takes on a new aspect 
when the activities of the home are shown to be far-reaching in their 
effects and demanding a high order of ability and training if they are 
to be worthily performed. A cook was about to leave her situation 
in a clergyman's family to attempt to become a dressmaker. Her 
employer said to her "Don't you realize how important what you do 
is? My husband is engaged in all these difficult matters that come 
up in the church and the city, work people call upon him to help 
settle strikes, he organizes aid for the needy, and other good works, 
and when he comes home tired and worn out you have good food ready 
for his refreshment and thus help enable him to carry on his work." 
This was a new \'iew to the cook and forthwith she gave up all idea 
that her tasks were menial and insignificant. 

Many a young woman today is fretted by the prospect of a mean- 
ingless round of dishwashing, cooking and sewing, but she would 
eagerly carry on these meaningless measures if somebody would show 
her how they may be interpreted as necessary steps in expressing the 
highest social instincts and meeting the most important human needs. 
As the old English poet, George Herbert, well says: 

A servant with this clause 

Makes drudgery divine; 
Who sweeps a room as for Thy laws 

Makes that and th' action fine. 

Domestic science has suffered too long from confining itself to the 
mechanical operations of cooking and sewing. Young people have 
instinctively known that these are belated industries and have chafed 
against retaining them in the home by force of tradition against all 
the modern influences which are driving them out. The process for 
the sake of the process does not allure the young person and yet too 
often it is all that the domestic science teacher has in view or can offer. 

The suggestions which have been made in this paper may seem too 
remote and idealistic for realization in the near future. Undoubtedly 
they are for those teachers of domestic science who exaggerate the 
importance of cooking and sewing as arts and who lack the training 
and insight to realize that in themselves these household arts are of 
little educational or social value. Moreover, placing a false estimate 
upon their importance results in obscuring their true relation to the 
real values of life. It is only when the cultural and vocational value 
of domestic science and all its implications can be appreciated and 
interpreted will this important branch of study fulfil its proper mission. 



236 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

Finally it is apparent that such a view of the scope of domestic 
science imphes a much broader and more thorough training than 
most teachers at present receive. There is a growing conviction of 
the need of a thorough and broad knowledge of the different so-called 
natural sciences. It has not yet been adequately recognized that the 
social sciences have a large part to play in the proper equipment of a 
teacher who is to direct the young for life in its fullest sense. Stand- 
ards are advancing rapidly, opportunities are likewise increasing, and 
such conferences as this will aid in giving dignity and the seal of 
approval to a vocation which will not fail to reach out and help even 
the lowhest when its function is recognized to be one of interpreting 
the values of life. 



CLASS WORK IN THE GIRLS* FRIENDLY SOCIETY. 

Edith M. Hadley. 

Secretary Social Service Department, Girls' Friendly Society. 

A Httle over forty years ago, in the Diocese of Winchester, England, 
the Bishop, Samuel Wilberforce, was organizing a society for rescue 
work. In the audience was a young woman who had recently gone 
to live in a Hampshire parish. While listening the thought flashed 
through her mind, "If the power of rescue work will be so increased 
by organization, why should not work be organized to save from fall- 
ing?" This was the inception of the Girls' Friendly Society. Its 
birth might have been seen shortly after in a tiny cottage on a wild 
heath, where a little group of girls and women gathered together from 
the country side, the girls sewing and a lady reading aloud to them. 
From this small beginning has grown, under the auspices of the Church 
of England, the largest preventive organization for women and girls 
in the world. Its branches from the mother tree have spread through- 
out the English colonies, and in the United States stretch from the 
Atlantic to the Pacific coast, and from Canada to Key West. The 
last report gave the number of girls and women belonging to this 
Society in the United States as 43,200. 

The object of this Society is to maintain purity, to upbuild charac- 
ter, to help one another, secularly and spiritually, if the two terms 
can be diflferentiated. The organization follows the lines of the 
Church, being diocesan and parochial, the unit being the group of 



1 9 13] Class Work in the Girls' Friendly Society 237 

girls, with their "associate," an older woman, forming a class. In many 
instances the combination of these class groups forms the "branch" 
or parochial entity. While the object of all those belonging to this 
Society is the same, the methods of attaining it are individual, and 
may be original and independent, although in the majority of cases 
the method is class work. 

In this country, in the autumn of 191 2, through the Social Service 
Department, twenty-one dioceses reported class work bearing upon 
home economics. This does not mean that there were only twenty- 
one classes, for the diocese of New York alone reported ninety-six 
classes in fifty branches. The following enumeration taken from the 
total report shows the average type of class and lecture work : Cook- 
ing, crochet, drawn work, dressmaking, embroidery, first aid, kitchen 
gardening, knitting, linen lace, millinery, nursing, physical culture, 
sewing, and shirtwaist making. Lectures were also given on "The 
Care of Little Babies," "Hygiene," "Sex Hygiene," "Income and 
Expenditure," "Food and Cooking for Health and Economy," and 
an address was given to associates on "The Making of the Home," 
by Miss Kinne, Professor of Household Arts in Teachers' College, 
New York. In addition, Connecticut added rag rug-making and arts 
and crafts; Maryland and southern Ohio domestic science; Massa- 
chusetts lectures on "Contagious Diseases," "Household Economics," 
"Markets and Flies," and "Table Service;" and Michigan gave a 
lecture on "Montessori Education." In every diocese one is almost 
certain to find classes in kitchen gardening for the children, or "can- 
didates," and sewing, cooking and dressmaking among the older 
girls; while first aid, nursing, hygiene, moral hygiene, and dancing are 
growing in popularity. When it is considered that about 25,000 mem- 
bers attending meetings of the Girls' Friendly Society in the United 
States are girls who work in dressmaking and millinery establish- 
ments, factories, shops and ofl5ces, the majority of whom have been 
at work from the age of fourteen and have no other preparation for 
marriage and home life than is given in these groups, the value and 
opportunity may be estimated. 

The average class meets once a week for about seven months, and 
though it may seem that very Little can be gained in the all too short 
hour or hour and a half allotted, yet the work accomplished by the 
girls is remarkable. A young dressmaking girl, who is rather dull 
and slow, started to work in an embroidery class four or five years 
ago, apparently without any aptitude for embroidery, and with no 



238 The Journal oj Home Economics [June 

taste for color combination. Her first efforts were discouraging, and 
even at the end of the first year's course, her teacher almost despaired. 
But both persevered, and at present she is working upon the finest 
and most exquisite ecclesiastical embroidery. Her experience is simi- 
lar to that of himdreds of other girls. Two or three years of training 
are sufiScient to make the average girl an expert in the line of work 
she has undertaken. Many branches at the end of the season have 
exhibits of work which has been done during the year. Hats perched 
upon milk bottles, and coats, skirts, dresses and shirtwaists upon 
forms, attract the most attention, but the fine needlework and drawn 
work repay inspection, and frequently assist girls in obtaining orders, 
or in finding more remunerative positions as wage earners. 

A specific example of the manner in w^hich the classes work may 
be given in describing St. George's Branch, New York, where classes 
are conducted Tuesday afternoons for the children, or "candidates," 
as they are called, on Friday evenings for juniors, or girls from four- 
teen to sixteen years of age, and on Tuesday and Friday evenings for 
seniors, from sixteen to twenty-one on one of these evenings, and 
from twenty-one years up, on the other. The hours are from 8.00 
until 9.30, and the instruction is given to the juniors by volunteer 
workers, usually members of the Society; the seniors are taught by 
paid expert teachers. The courses include cooking, embroidery, 
drawn work, calisthenics, fancy dancing, millinery, dressmaking and 
home nursing. In most of the classes the girls are seated at long 
tables, and the teachers go from one to another, giving instruction. 
A lady, or "associate" is in charge of each class, and her opportunity 
for helping or influencing the girls, and of receiving help or influence 
from them, is only limited by personality. She may read aloud to 
them, or discuss whatever she or the girls may wish, literature, travel, 
social conditions, civics, politics, religion, morals, — but often it will 
be, not a group discussion, but a personal problem of one of the girl's 
that is brought to the associate. 

While the class work is considered of great value, even in branches 
which are unable to afiford expert instruction, inculcating as it does 
habits of neatness, cleanliness, intelligence and efficiency, the motive 
underlying the instruction is never lost sight of, — character building, 
the strengthening to resist temptation, the banding together for 
helpfulness. 



HOME ECONOMICS WORK IN THE UNITED STATES 
FOR MEN AND BOYS.' 

C. F. Langworthy. 

Nutrition Investigations, U. S. Department of Agriculture. 

We are accustomed to speak of courses of instruction as women's 
subjects or men's subjects, according to the interest they arouse, 
and usually think of home economics as belonging to the former 
group. In most cases analysis shows that the subject-matter taught 
has to do with matters common to the interests of both men and 
women, plus a larger or a smaller portion particularly interesting to 
each. To cite an illustration, the subject of physics is without doubt 
more interesting to men than to women students, yet a considerable 
part of its subject-matter has to do with phenomena as important to 
one as to the other. Though a great deal which is included pertains 
particularly to men's occupations and activities, there is a consider- 
able portion which directly pertains to women's interests, a matter 
which in this as in other subjects is not so often emphasized as it 
should be in arranging courses. 

What has been said is equally true of home economics. Though 
at first thought it might appear that the subject is concerned exclu- 
sively with women's activities, it should be apparent to all that a 
large proportion of the subject-matter which would be included in 
the ideal course is of equal interest to both men and women — for 
instance, ventilation, heating and lighting, the selection of clothing, 
the hygiene of right li\ang, and a knowledge of the relative value and 
use of foods — while a portion, its extent not yet formulated, has to 
do particularly with men's activities as related to the general question 
of food, clothing, and shelter. The ideal course of instruction will 
recognize these facts and be arranged accordingly. 

These things being so, it is natural that we should find, as is the 
case, that instruction in what may be called home economics is given 
to men in a variety of ways and under a variety of names, and very 

> Reprinted from the proceedings of the Third .\nnual Meeting of the American 
Association for Stud}- and Prevention of Infant Mortality. 191 2. 

239 



240 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

seldom under the name ''home economics." Most of this instruction 
is from the portion of the field which concerns the activities of both 
men and women. WTiere such work takes special form it is usually 
concerned with instruction in some trade, as baking and catering, or 
as a help in some other undertaking, as courses in camp cookery, 
which are useful to men engaged in many occupations. Most com- 
mon of all is the general instruction given in personal hygiene, hygiene 
of the home, and related topics. 

Much work not formally grouped under home economics but under 
some other title is available for boys in schools and for men students 
in colleges. For instance, instruction is very commonly given in 
matters pertaining to personal hygiene, including the importance of 
pure air and ventilation, personal cleanliness, and hygiene of clothing, 
and general data regarding foods, though possibly the last-mentioned 
topic is not so often included. In some colleges courses in food anal- 
ysis, including the detection of adulteration, are offered as well as 
opportunities for special work. Thus, Columbia University, New 
York City, offers such courses in its academic department. Teachers' 
College of Columbia University, New York, offers laboratory work 
in food and nutrition, in textiles, including the detection of adultera- 
tion, and in other lines, and these courses, like others in the college, 
are not restricted to women students, though in most cases the classes 
are made up exclusively of women. 

In medical schools instruction is given in ventilation, personal 
hygiene, hygiene of dwellings and environment, and other topics 
more or less concerned with the subjects usually grouped under home 
economics. Furthermore, it is very noticeable that an increasing 
amount of attention is paid to food and dietetics, and that such work 
includes not only lectures and practice in the analysis of foods with 
a view to determining their composition and purity, but also some 
instruction in the preparation of foods, naturally with special refer- 
ence to invalid dietetics. Before provision was so generally made in 
medical schools for instruction in invalid cookery students who felt 
the need of the work secured it in other ways. Thus, Miss Maria 
Parloa, who established a school of cookery in Boston about 1880, 
gave instruction in sick room cookery to Harvard medical students, 
and later some of the medical students from the Massachusetts Gen- 
eral Hospital sought similar instruction from Miss Farmer. 

Problems dealing with the purchase of food and other household 
suppUes, and much that pertains to commercial transactions are in- 



1913] Home Economics Work for Men and Boys 241 

eluded in most school courses in arithmetic, and we must not overlook 
the fact that all of this has a legitimate part in an ideal classification 
of home economics material, and would necessarily have a special 
place in home economics courses if it were not pro\ided for elsewhere. 
Doubtless because the topics appeal to them boys very commonly 
gain a better knowledge of business forms and transactions than girls, 
particularly in matters which pertain to the purchase and transfer- 
ence of property, and related questions; and in the case of advanced 
work which would include property rights, the legal status of different 
members of the family, and other questions, the advantage is with 
the men students as regards opportunity for formal instruction in 
colleges and professional schools and informal training outside of 
them. The need for similar training of suitable scope for women 
students is recognized and finds its place in an ideal classification of 
the subject-matter of home economics. 

So far as can be learned, no college in the United States offers any- 
thing like a complete course in home economics designed primarily 
for men students, either technical in its scope or professional. The 
agricultural colleges in most cases are co-educational and a consider- 
able nimiber of them offer courses in home economics. It follows, 
therefore, that in such colleges men students can readily avail them- 
selves of opportunities for home economics work should they desire 
to do so. Furthermore, in some of these colleges special courses in 
some line of home economics are offered for men students. 

To cite the instances which have been noted: The University of 
Minnesota in the high school at the Agricultural College began about 
ten years ago to teach cookery to the boys. The work extends over 
three months, but as a whole the time devoted to the subject is rather 
short, only twenty-four to thirty-six hours a year. The course is 
very popular. It includes the selection of food with a \'iew to secur- 
ing a balanced ration, necessity for cleanliness in preparation, and 
methods of cookery, especially camp cookery. Presumably, the 
work will be extended. A class in camp cookery has been established 
for university students, and this too is well attended. 

The State Agricultural College at Fort Collins, Colorado, has a 
course in camp cookery, attended mostly by engineers who expect 
to make practical use of their knowledge of this subject. 

In Idaho, both the State Normal School at Lewiston and the State 
University at Moscow give courses in cooking to boys, as does the 
home economics department of the State College of Washington, A 



242 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

course in camp cookery is given by the University of Maine for the 
special benefit of such students as expect to engage in forestry work. 
Instruction in camp cookery is also given in certain elementary and 
high schools in Massachusetts to boy scouts but no details have been 
secured of its character and extent. 

Although home economics subjects are not at present taught to 
young men at the School of Education of the University of Chicago, 
a few years ago instruction of this kind to the high school boys proved 
very successful. Boys in the elementary school of this institution 
also were taught many of the household arts, not only for the intrinsic 
value of a knowledge of such subjects, but also for the practical train- 
ing in correlated subjects. For instance, it was found that in meas- 
uring out the ingredients required for the preparation of a soup or a 
pudding, the boys (and girls) learned, incidentally, denominate num- 
bers, fractions, and proportion, not only as well as in the usual way 
from the text-book, but with greater facility. In preparing and cook- 
ing a meal boys as well as girls learned something of chemistry. The 
idea on which the work of the school was based is that the process of 
learning is of far greater value than that which is learned. 

Several requests have been received from men who wish to become 
stewards for hotels and restaurants by the Kansas State Agricultural 
College for instruction in home economics subjects, although no such 
courses are now offered. A demand for instruction in table etiquette 
led to the establishment of a novel method of imparting such instruc- 
tion. At each of five noonday meals per week three of the yoimg 
men sat at table with a teacher and each of the four took his turn in 
carving and serving. No verbal instructions or corrections were 
given, but the pupils were expected to learn by following the example 
of the teacher. Whether or not this plan will be adopted again has 
not been learned. 

Men sometimes take courses in household arts at Teachers' College, 
Columbia University, New York. One who recently took a course 
in food economics and household economics is about to institute a 
department of household economics in an educational institution in 
Philadelphia. Several medical students also have taken courses in 
practical cookery in Teachers' College. 

While none of the public schools of Oregon offers special instruction 
in home economics to boys, several of the high schools admit them to 
the cooking classes and in some cases they have taken advantage of 
this opportunity. 



19 13] Home Economics Work for Men and Boys 243 

In the state of Utah practically all of the public school boys receive 
some instruction in home economics. The Agricultural College at 
Logan, Utah, has a course in home economics to which men are ad- 
mitted. The men now taking the course expect to become stewards 
or to take up homesteads where they will be compelled to prepare 
their o^ti meals. 

At the United States Military Academy at West Point much is 
taught which pertains to home economics, though it goes without 
saying that this kind of instruction has been pro\aded with no ref- 
erence to the home economics movement. Rooms must be swept, 
bedding folded, and everything in perfect order at 6.30 a.m. Bed- 
ding and clothes must be folded according to rule and placed just 
in their right places. Both person and clothes must be immaculate 
at all times. Quarters are subject to frequent and critical inspection. 
Of necessity the cadets are instructed in the proper performance of 
these tasks and it is recognized that the training has a value in form- 
ing orderly habits as well as in securing orderly quarters. As stated 
in the Regulations for the United States Military Academy, 191 1, 
page 89, "The rooms in cadet barracks shall be arranged as pre- 
scribed by the commandant of cadets and regulations for the same 
shall be posted in each. The rooms shall be in order whenever the 
occupants are absent." 

At the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis instruction is 
given the undergraduates in the care of their quarters. The rules 
for the care and arrangement of the rooms are minutely detailed and 
penalties prescribed in the regulations of the Academy for the least 
violation. The care of a ship in all its details is part of the instruc- 
tion the midshipmen receive on the training ship, and practical work 
in "ship housekeeping," if one may so designate it, involves cleanli- 
ness and order and much that can be called home economics, though 
this grouping is without doubt far from the minds of those who give 
and those who receive the instruction. 

Inspired doubtless by the courses at West Point and Annapolis, 
many of the private military schools give their students instruction 
indirectly, in what is really home economics, as the care of rooms, 
equipment, and person. 

The plan of organization and course of instruction for the "Boy 
Scouts of America" provide for a certain amount of teaching of home 
economics subjects. In pioneer days boys received much training 
in the various home activities, assisting in the duties of the farm and 



244 ^^^ Journal of Home Economics [June 

the farm home and thereby obtaining a practical knowledge and 
mental training which comes from the handling of tools and the doing 
of work as well as a physical development which is commonly sought 
by the boys of the present day in athletics or other ways. Special- 
ization in industries and the growth of cities have so restricted boys' 
opportunities for acquiring the varied training which comes from the 
performance of such tasks that the value of a movement which aims 
to supply the deficiency seems evident. The organization is thor- 
oughly described in the ofl&cial handbook by Ernest Thompson Seton.^ 
There is no intention of quoting here any of the details of the organ- 
ization except such as have a direct bearing on home economics. 
The boys are taught in instructions for camping what equipment 
should be provided, the kinds and quantities of provisions needed 
for a definite period, the selection of a camp site, the construction of 
beds, use of lights, importance and ways of obtaining a good water 
supply, construction and maintenance of fires, and camp cookery. 
Among the other activities taught the boy scouts which might prop- 
erly be considered as having a more or less direct relation to home 
economics are first aid to the injured, building a log cabin, making 
a tent, and tying knots. 

Philanthropic societies in some instances give instructions to boys 
as well as girls in cookery and in plain sewing, such as would be of 
use at the summer camps maintained by these societies. The Young 
Men's Christian Association in several cities gives similar instruction 
in its boys' clubs for the benefit of those boys who have an outing 
in camp. 

Another movement which should be mentioned here is the estab- 
lishment of the George Junior Republic. This is a self-governing 
community of boys and girls at Freeville, New York. The young 
citizens work at various occupations, receiving pay in the aluminum 
coin of the Republic, which they spend as they please in providing 
for themselves food, clothing, shelter, and amusements. On leaving, 
all money of the Republic possessed by the citizen is redeemed in 
United States currency. This system provides valuable training in 
household economics, even if the term is not used in connection with 
the work. Among the industries of the Republic is a bakery in v/hich 
the young citizens bake not only all the bread and pastry used by 
the Republic, but also a product called "Republic Ginger and Choc- 
olate Wafers" for the market. There is also a thoroughly equipped 
steam laundry, a store, carpenter shop, blacksmith shop, print shop, 

'Boys Scouts of America. New York, igio. 



1913] Home Econotnks Work for Men and Boys 245 

barns, butcher shop, dairy, and various farm buildings. It is obxdous 
that the knowledge of home and farm activities gained by "doing" is 
varied and extensive. 

In some industrial schools the care of the rooms is part of the stu- 
dent's work and of necessity instruction is given in the proper methods. 

At the New York Parental School at Flushing the boys receive 
instruction in baking, laundering, and tailoring, as well as in carpen- 
tering, plumbing, printing, and farming. Each of these activities is 
followed commercially. For instance, all the laundering and baking 
for the Brooklyn and Manhattan Truant Schools, the laundering for 
the New York Board of Education Building and the Girls' Technical 
School, and the laundering of the hammocks of the New York School- 
ship is done by the boys in the Parental School, the combined value 
of the products of laundering and baking for the year 191 1 being 
over $18,000. 

The cottage system is in vogue at the Parental School and the boys 
learn to do housework and do all of it in their respective cottages. 
They also receive considerable instruction in table manners (^.e., the 
use of napkins, knives, forks, spoons, etc.), and in the proper hand- 
ling of their food. 

Many of the vocational schools throughout the country give in- 
struction in home economics subjects, but it is difficult to draw the 
line between such instruction and the teaching of certain trades, as 
for example cooking, baking, and tailoring. It is also difficult to 
draw a sharp line between home economics subjects and the kind 
of instruction given to men and boys in relation to personal hygiene, 
etc., at various factory welfare institutions. 

There are in the United States trade schools for bakers and for 
men cooks, as there are indeed for a great variety of occupations, the 
object being primarily the acquisition of skill in manipulation as a 
means of earning a living. No attempt has been made to collect 
information regarding such schools, though it would be interesting 
to do so. Such schools are nearly always private enterprises. There 
are, however, three similar schools maintained by the army, and one 
by the navy. 

The United States army has at Fort Riley, Kansas, at Washington 
Barracks, Washington, D. C, and at the Presidio, San Francisco, 
California, schools for the training of bakers and cooks for the army. 
The curriculum is practically the same at all of these schools, so a 
description of the one at Fort Riley will suffice to make clear the aims 
and methods of all three. 



246 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

The course of study for student bakers at the ^Mounted Service 
School, Fort Riley, usually covers a period of four months, although, 
in certain cases this time may be extended or ciirtailed one month. 
Students are selected from the enlisted men at the different army 
establishments by their commanding officers ■Writh a \-iew to fitness 
and willingness to take up the work. 

For a few weeks after arrival each new man works with a member 
of the graduating class. Among the duties to which the men are 
assigned are the making of straight doughs, sponges, yeasts, and 
ferments. They learn to operate bread-making machines, to build 
and maintain fires, and to use ovens and pans. Various field expe- 
dients, including the handling of field ovens, are taught, as well as the 
duties of sales clerk and super\ision of the bread room and of the mix- 
ing room. The practical work also includes the making of white, 
rye, and graham bread, roUs, buns, and doughnuts. Each student 
has entire charge of the regimental field baker}- for four days of each 
month and is marked and graded on the quality of the product on 
those days. Each member of the graduating class takes charge of 
the bakery for three successive days as chief baker, during which 
time he controls aU help, makes out all reports, and keeps all accounts 
required of a chief baker. 

In addition to the practical work, a study of the official text-book, 
the Army Baker, is required, and five hours per week are spent in 
the study of such arithmetic as is of use in handling bakers' accounts, 
vmless the student shows on examination that he already knows 
enough arithmetic. 

While not specifically mentioned as part of the curriculum, the 
care of the person and aU clothing, utensils, and equipment used by 
the student is no small part of the training received by the students. 

Upon completion of the course the students are rated according to 
ability as chief bakers, assistant bakers, and non-graduates, a total 
of 450 points being required for graduation out of a possible 600, made 
up as follows: 200 points for practical work in the post bakerj^, 100 
points for practical work in the field bakery', 50 points for cleanliness 
and work as mixing room orderly, 100 points for recitations, and 150 
points for examination. 

The course of study for student cooks at the same school, as in 
the case of the student bakers, requires from three to five months, 
usually four, and the students are selected in the same way. Xew 
arrivals are at first assigned as assistants to first and second cooks at 
the several organization kitchens. They assist in the preparation 



1913] Home Economics Work for Men and Boys 247 

of meals and in the cleaning of kitchen utensils and eqiiipment. 
After about a month these students are promoted to the grade of 
second cook and after two months to that of first cook. First and 
second cooks alternate in the preparation of meals, the one not on 
duty as cook attending afternoon recitation and fresh beef inspec- 
tion the following morning. Field expedients are used in the prepara- 
tion of one meal each week. One week's instructon is given in bak- 
ing pies, sweet doughs and cakes in the field pa5tr>' kitchens. In 
the last month of the course students act as mess sergeants and are 
required in that capacity to demonstrate ability to pro\-ide good 
meals on the ration allowance. 

Theoretical work includes a study of the official text-book and the 
school regulations. The theory and practice of cooking are taught 
for two months, and dressed beef inspection and cutting the beef 
carcass are taught for two months. Instruction in arithmetic is prin- 
cipally in the handling of accounts and the determination of the cost 
of rations. Graduates are rated according to ability as mess sergeants, 
first cooks, and second cooks. 

The men taking both the courses are required to keep their quarters 
and equipment in order and are taught how to do this if they do not 
know already. 

That the acti\-ities of the army training schools for bakers and cooks 
are not limited strictly to the army is shown by the statement in a 
recent report' of the commissar\' general, which notes that during 
the year 191 1 the commandant of the United States Marine Corps 
made application for authority to have enlisted men of the Marine 
Corps take a course in the schools at Washington Barracks and the 
Presidio of San Francisco, which request was granted, as was also a 
similar request from the State of Ohio for permission to allow enlisted 
men of the naUonal guard of that state to enter the training school 
for bakers and cooks at Washington Barracks. 

A school at the United States Xaval Training StaUon, Xe'VNport, 
Rhode Island, similar in scope to the army school, trains cooks and 
bakers for the na%y. According to data received from the school the 
average number of students in attendance varies from sLxty to sev- 
enty, di\ided into four classes — commissar}' stewards, head cooks, 
cooks of lower rating, and bakers. For commissary stewards the 
course covers six months; for all others four months. 

In the class for lower cooks men are received who have just enlisted 
in the na\y and whose knowledge of cooking, particularly of navy 

' Report of Commissary General (U. S. Army). 191 1, p. 7. 



248 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

methods, is very slight. There are also a few men in this class who 
have enlisted in other ratings and after having seen a little of navy 
life have decided that they would prefer to become members of the 
commissary department. The men are taught the principles of 
cooking and the customs, rules, and regulations in vogue aboard ships 
of the navy. 

The head cooks' class is composed of men who have had several 
years' service as cooks in the navy or who have qualified in the lower 
cooks' class and shown themselves competent to take charge of a 
ship's galley. The men are supposed to be proficient cooks before 
they enter this class, and the instruction given them is principally 
along the lines of organization of the galley force, proper supervision 
of the men under them, cleanliness and neatness in the preparation 
of food, and care of galley and of person. 

The commissary steward class is composed of men who have be- 
come experienced navy cooks or who have had experience as stewards 
in restaurants or in hotels. They are taught the principles of the 
navy ration, the organization of the force under them, and all other 
matters pertaining to the general mess aboard ship, over which they 
have direct charge. 

The bakers' class is composed of men who in civil life have had 
experience as bakers or of navy cooks who have shown an aptitude 
for baking and a liking for it in preference to general cooking. Baking 
in its various branches is thoroughly taught, as are also the custom 
and routine aboard ship. 

In addition to instruction in the preparation of food both on shore 
and at sea, the students receive incidentally much teaching of clean- 
liness and order as applied to their persons, and to all equipment and 
utensils used by them. 

In such a summary one must not omit to mention the fact that 
many boys receive at home from their mothers instruction in many 
things pertaining to housekeeping and the care of the home, and gain 
a knowledge as useful as many a school could impart, which proves of 
great value to them in after life. 

Further search will show that there are many other instances of 
the teaching of home economics subjects to men students and to 
boys. What has been brought together will, it is believed, serve to 
show that the work, though scattered and often incidental, is never- 
theless fairly considerable in amount. It is also apparent that there 
is need for extending it if education is to provide all that it might 
in training for life and its opportunities. 



LUNCHES IN ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS. 

All the arguments that have won the fight for providing whole- 
some, well-planned meals served at cost to high school children apply- 
equally to similar provision for elementary school children. Oppor- 
tunities for education and habit formation are greater with the younger 
children, because they are younger, and because there are many more 
of them. 

School lunches help to reduce the large amount of truancy caused 
by the long uncontrolled noon recess. A light, well-planned meal in 
the middle of the day has an immediate effect on the children's power 
of attention and their resistance to fatigue. That this makes the 
remainder of the session far more efficient is the universal testimony 
of teachers wherever the lunches have been tried. 

The elementary school lunch is established in 41 cities of the United 
States, 200 English cities, 150 German cities, 55 Italian cities, and 
1200 French communities. Some of the results are as follows: 

(i) Nourishing food increases the mental efiiciency of the children. 

(2) Lunches prepared and served under school supervision make for 
the formation of good habits of diet. 

(3) Super\ised meals eaten in the group cultivate between teachers 
and children, and among the children themselves, a spirit of friendli- 
ness, of courtesy, and of democracy. 

(4) The school lunch forms a natural basis for the study of hygiene 
and physiology. It furnishes a working laboratory for domestic 
science classes, and for general instruction concerning the pure food 
movement, food costs, food values, and the relation of food to working 
efficiency. 

(5) The establishment of the school lunch leads to increased interest 
in school activities among the parents. Mothers seek to adapt the 
school menu to their household needs, come into close contact with 
the school dietitian, and the resultant friendship makes for cooperation 
between the school and the community. 

Although a large proportion of our school children, 10 per cent by 
conservative estimate, are suffering from mahiutrition, the relief of 
this condition is not the primary aim of those who are advocating 
school meals. It is their conviction that if the school is to assume 
responsibility it must be because of purely educational considerations. 
School feeding finds its justification in the fact that we cannot sepa- 
rate bodily and mental welfare; a well nourished mind is impossible 
in a poorly nourished body, and physical health is essential to the 
full mental and moral development of our children. 

249 



ADDRESS AT UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO.^ 
Alice Ravenhill. 

"To the thoughtful, the broad-minded and the far-sighted, today's 
ceremony is much more than the formal acceptance by the University 
of a magnificent gift; it is more than the pubHc recognition of the 
importance and national worth of a group of subjects which, for gen- 
erations, has occupied the lowly position of the proverbial Cinderella 
in the eyes of even advanced social reformers and educationaUsts, for 
this function attests to the forging of another link in the chain of 
imperialism by which our great empire is united for the advancement 
and protection of its people. Thus intimately to associate imperial- 
ism with the right conduct of life in the homes of the empire is no 
exaggerated figure of speech, no fiction of the imagination. It is 
quite legitimate to describe household economics equally with imperial- 
ism, as utiUtarian in its objects; for its aim is to promote the welfare 
of our race, its spirit is democratic, and its methods peaceful. Impe- 
riaUsm recalls to the individual the responsibilities attaching to the 
goodly heritage he enjoys; so also does family life. It exacts from 
one and all service on behalf of his fellows; so also do domestic duties. 
It defines the lines along which concerted effort must be made to 
strengthen the weakest links in the chain, and ever keeps in view 
advantageous extensions of beneficial influence, reform and practice. 
Should not similar efforts characterize the intelligently conducted 
home? It has for too long been the custom, more or less contemptu- 
ously to condemn as wholly utilitarian the right conduct of human 
life in the home; which seems suggestive that the true significance 
of the word has been lost sight of. It was coined by John Stewart 
Mill to denote that system which makes the happiness of man the 
criterion of right. Without accepting the moral standard set up by 
this theory, it is nevertheless permissible to point out that the word 
itself may most fitly be employed to dignify, not to disparage, domes- 
tic duties, of which the ideal must ever be the happiness of mankind; 
that happiness which coincides with healthful development and ability 
to exercise to the highest capacity the mental and physical powers 

^ From the address delivered at the opening of the Household Science Building, 
University of Toronto, January 28, 1913. 

250 



19 13] Address at University of Toronto 251 

with which the human race is endowed. If the definition of "utility" 
as the "quaUty of being serviceable or conducive towards some 
end or purpose" be accepted, then its application to a sphere of life 
which absorbs the energies of go per cent of our women is an honor 
to be coveted, not a sUght to be resented. The association of the 
spirit of democracy with either imperialism or domestic efficiency is 
not so famiUar but that it may be of interest to point out the con- 
nection, for it assists us to take that "broad view of things" (in this 
case of woman's work in the home) which Lord Haldane once de- 
scribed as the product of true education. 

Until the race has attained a more perfect practice of social obhga- 
tions control, even coercion, by the aid of legal enactments is compul- 
sory. In the first instance, these laws were promulgated and imposed 
by leaders more far-sighted and influential than their fellows. As 
civiUzation progressed, it was found that if public opinion and conduct 
were to keep pace with legislation, power to make these laws, through 
duly elected representatives, must be entrusted to the people whom 
they so intimately concern. 

In England public health laws date from the latter part of the 
first half of the nineteenth century and the reform bill became law 
in the preceding decade. But to legislate in advance of the opinion 
and ideals of the masses has again and again proved futile; and the 
task of arousing the pubhc conscience devolves usually upon a few 
observant and enthusiastic individuals. Thus it was the sagacity, 
perseverance and tact of philanthropists which first drew public atten- 
tion to the appalling need for sanitary legislation. 

Xenophon very rightly drew attention to the fact that men and 
women live in reciprocal dependence. Civilization is the product of 
their imited efforts to utilize the experience of the past in the service 
of the present. Hence, woman's long dissociation of herself from this 
pressing matter of securing improved conditions of life for the com- 
munity; her failure to support pubhc measures by intelHgent domestic 
reforms, seem to account, in part, for the perpetuation of many con- 
ditions which menace and hamper the public weal. It is true that 
the power to enforce conditions which permit homes to be healthy 
rested for more than half a century entirely in the hands of men; but, 
meanwhile, the small group of women who were aUve to their responsi- 
biUty for the utihzation and maintenance of better conditions within 
their homes, sought vainly for the cooperation of their mostly indif- 
ferent sisters, so that the general level of domestic procedure remained 



252 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

much where it was. Instead of the audible shaking of the "dry 
bones" of tradition which should have been heard throughout the 
nation, there appears rather to have been a further entrenchment of 
suspicious housewives behind the shelter of great-grandmotherly 
methods, suited to and praiseworthy in their time, but calling urgently 
for re\dsion in the light of modern knowledge. With what result? 
The spirit of social reform wandered over practically all other kinds 
of human activities, over every sphere of occupation in which men 
and women are engaged before it finally concentrated upon the most 
vital of all callings, that of maker of human homes. The home was 
considered too private for oflficial invasion by forces doing battle in 
the professional and industrial world. What concern with the home 
had such measures for social or sanitary betterment as building regu- 
lations, the registration of births, deaths and marriages, poor law 
reform or organized education? Such ideas sound strangely anti- 
quated to twentieth century ears. But have we even yet wholly out- 
grown the characteristics attributed to our last century compatriots 
by H. G. Wells: "It was an age full of restricted and undiscipHned 
people overtaken by power, by possessions and great new freedoms; 
imable to make any ci\dHzed use of them whatever." 

The erection and equipment of this fine building, its highly qualified 
staff, its eager students, and its proud connection vaih a university 
of world'-^dde fame, are conclusive evidence of a complete change of 
attitude on the part of a satisfactory proportion of Canadian men 
and women. Today's function marks a forward stride in civilization. 
It sets the seal of university recognition upon a branch of special 
departmental studies designed to prepare women for the pecuhar 
calling it is their privilege to follow. For the last half century women 
have been afforded more or less opportunity for participation in the 
courses for men; only, however, by very slow degrees and associated 
with many misgivings, have such special courses as those pursued by 
women in this building won their way to even tentative recognition 
by universities, much less to an equivalent position with the older 
faculties of law, medicine and divinity. 

For this state of affairs there are more reasons than the empirical 
methods hitherto accepted in the regulation of household affairs, 
which obscured the fact that, in common with other arts, those prac- 
ticed in kitchen, nursery and laundry, are based upon scientific foun- 
dations. Woman's innate conservatism and her slow appreciation of 
the interdependence of public health, national eflSciency, and domestic 



1913] Address at University of Toronto 253 

standards are in part the cause. Then the excesses of the Restoration 
after the repressions of the Commonwealth appear to have fostered an 
exaggerated emotionalism in women, who, in previous centuries had 
prided themselves upon their skill in the arts and crafts, which increas- 
ing differentiation of labor has gradually justifiably removed from 
the home. They sunk into mere puppets for men's amusement, 
abandoning then: honorable role of "loaf givers" to the community. 
Domestic matters were relegated to the untrained and most ignorant 
members of the family group and the results of defective performance 
were referred rather to the insignificant character of the duties than 
to the imperfect quality of the agents entrusted with their execution. 

It is one feature of untrained minds that little or no thought is 
given to the immediate consequences of any line of conduct. The 
absence of mental discipline in what, for two or more centm-ies, passed 
muster as female education, or of any exercise of the reasoning powers, 
doubtless contributed to blind women's eyes to the fact that the life 
of civiUzed man is built upon the part played in every detail of exist- 
ence by this all-pervading law of cause and effect. It can hardly 
be said that all women are even yet alive to this fact, in spite of 
fifty years of effort to popularize the overwhelming evidence of its 
verity by societies for this purpose. The world at large had for so 
long a period seen in man the one inteUigent working machine of the 
social community, and women were so habitually classified as butter- 
flies, bluestockings, or drudges, that it is of quite recent years only 
that woman has slowly become recognized as the chief propelling force 
in the evolution or devolution of the race. 

There is also a widespread conviction that the whole duty of woman 
is fulfilled when she has acquired more or less skill in the arts of 
cooking, cleaning, sewing and washing; whereas these arts represent 
but a limited practical application of the broad conception which 
must be held of, and of the deep insight which must be gained into, 
the full scope of this comprehensive subject: — the right conduct of 
human life in the home. 

Certain well substantiated facts which materially influence the 
quahty of humanity must become common property if human poten- 
tiahties are to be realized. The connection, for instance, between 
polluted water supphes and typhoid fever, cholera or dysentery; 
between flies, dust, infantile diarrhoea and other infections; between 
defective diet and dyspepsia; between mismanaged lives and nervous 
breakdowns, call for no profound study in order to be understood and 



254 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

acted upon. All housekeepers should be interested in improved 
methods for the production, preservation, transportation and distrib- 
ution of foods; as well as in the measures taken to check adulteration, 
to control sophistication or to enforce cleanHness. 

Would tuberculosis still be so prevalent if homes were less dark, 
better ventilated, cleaner and not over heated? Is it not a serious 
reflection upon women that anemia, pneumonia, influenza, not to 
mention general slackness and debility, claim sufferers in almost every 
house? What proportion of mothers are training their children in 
habits which shall, at least, minimize the risk to others of infection 
from recent cases of "carrier" diseases? To what extent are house- 
wives realizing their responsibility for the persistence of debility and 
intemperance, owing to monotonous or ill-prepared food? Should 
they not all be aware of the close and unholy alliance between alcohol 
and degeneracy; of the relation between mismanaged children and 
juvenile crime; of the pernicious and enduring results of insufficient 
sleep in childhood? Should they not set themselves to stem the 
rising tide of materialism and frivoHty, of low morality, of luxury and 
false standards in recreation, of graft and greed in public life? Good 
intentions alone, interest unsupported by well corroborated facts, will 
not meet the case. Let me remind you of Charlemagne's words, 
when expostulated with upon his expenditure for the establishment of 
schools: "Although right doing is better than right thinking, yet must 
a knowledge of what is right precede right action." 

While thus briefly indicating my conception of the claims and scope 
of this subject, I do not for one moment desire to belittle the practical 
side of housecraft as usually defined, neither do I propose that every 
housekeeper should follow out a course of study in which any attempt 
is made to embrace all the material necessary to a full comprehension 
of the root causes of all the conditions enumerated above. My pur- 
pose is to show that, when the group of sciences and arts upon which 
household management is based, is passed in review, it becomes 
obvious that only the resources of a university are equal to providing 
opportunities for the study which must be undertaken, and of the 
research which must be carried out, before anything worthy of the 
designation "Household Science" can be established. 

Some may question the existence, or even the possibility of the 
existence of such a science. It is true that this is probably the first 
generation which has attempted any systematic investigation of this 
particular subject; but the innumerable difficulties encountered in the 



19 13] Address at University of Toronto 255 

prosecution of these tentative researches suggest the likelihood that 
they will engage the attention of many succeeding generations. Many 
more highly qualified chemists must descend from the rarefied 
atmosphere of their laboratories into the turmoil of empiricism which 
confuses and befogs the domestic reformer, before a tithe of the prob- 
lems by which work in kitchen, laundry and storeroom is confronted, 
can hope for solution. The physicist has given more thought to the 
household application of his subject matter; water, electricity and gas, 
for instance. But the case rate of anemia and pneumonia testify to 
the still unsolved problem of domestic heating and ventilation; neither 
have the eyes of the average woman been opened to the properties 
and possible control of the four "elements" of the ancients, as utilized 
in every household. 

Should not the biologist, out of his sound knowledge of the laws 
which govern the \ital functions, insist that women should recognize 
their share in their application to the rearing of children and the 
maintenance of health in maturity? Is it allowable that in years to 
come the great spenders of the community should remain superbly 
indifferent to, because ignorant of, the principles of economics and the 
art of domestic finance? 

There is little doubt that failure to take into account the fact that 
most reforms, if not all, filter from the higher to the lower strata of 
society, is answerable for a part of the slow advance since our pioneer 
women introduced the idea that training in the household arts was 
necessary half a century ago. The start was made with the children 
of the poorest class, whose difl5culties of practice would appall the 
stoutest heart and, for many years, the instruction of these immature 
little students was, in England at least, entrusted to women incompe- 
tent to attain the standard of general knowledge required of public 
school teachers. 

The courage and energy to readjust long accepted practice in the 
light of modem science is more likely to be foimd among those, for 
instance, who can perceive that the result of Darwin's teaching must 
permeate our whole conception of life and its duties. Evolution 
teaches that life is a thing of constant and perpetual change; that its 
quality depends upon its inherited nature as well as upon its capacity 
for adaptation to its surroundings; that the higher its manifestation 
the more prolonged is its period of immaturity, therefore the judicious 
care of childhood and youth calls for some acquaintance ^^^th the 
agencies which advance or hamper normal growth and development. 



256 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

If physiology be taught from this point of view, that of laying stress 
upon the series of changes in structure which justify the statement 
that not a single tissue or organ in the young child corresponds in 
its minute details with those normal to the adult; if the influence of 
this immaturity and of the coincident irregularity in the growth of 
parts be emphasized, a flood of light is thrown upon nursery perplex- 
ities and school problems, to the enormous gain of the adolescent, 
and to the immediate assistance of the parent and teacher. Eugenics 
is still running the gauntlet of satirical misrepresentation and exagger- 
ation, but it claims the examination of those capable of avoiding 
pitfalls, for it is concerned with a law of nature, inevitable, invariable, 
namely that certain effects, now more or less tabulated, are bound 
to succeed certain given causes. The whole fabric of civilized life is 
weakened or solidified by observance of this teaching, which consti- 
tutes a fundamental element in the practical application of theoretical 
hygiene. The student of ethics must be led also to link his theories with 
their application in the formation of habits of body as well as of mind. 
The physical organization of life, the right regulation of its rhythms, 
the cultivation of physiological righteousness and the development of 
a sanitary conscience, bulk largely in consistent training for collective 
life and in power to render service to the race. The character of a 
people's ideals, formed and fostered in the family circle, must be 
guided and stimulated by its students of psychology and ethics. 

Human life, too, is conditioned at every turn by the economic 
relations of society. There is, therefore, urgent need for our econo- 
mists to extend guidance to us on the subject of the economics of 
time, of energy, of health, as well as of money and labor. It cannot 
be denied that though, owing to machinery and improved methods 
the productive power of labor is enormously increased, yet the actual 
production falls far short of its potential capacity. More than one 
factor must be taken into account, but among the most important is 
the unsatisfactory quality of much human material. The man behind 
the machine is no negligible quantity. "What worth," said Lord 
Rosebery, "is an empire without an imperial race?" And so we find 
ourselves led on from the theoretical study of psychology to its eco- 
nomic applications in connection with temperament and the utiliza- 
tion of energy as well as of cash. The conservation of nerve force 
in the performance of daily routine calls for consideration. What 
useless frittering away of strength goes on in well-nigh every house- 
hold! How relatively few women posse?s "economic consciences." 



1913] Household Science Building, University of Toronto 257 

It is a stern but unpalatable duty to attempt to estimate the annual 
waste of money on so-called "bargains" or, worse than this, on patent 
drugs and so-called special "foods." These are but the most obvious 
illustrations of the average woman's profound economic ignorance. 

No less important is it to enlist the assistance of experts in pre- 
paring those who assume the charge of households to a better con- 
ception of their responsibility for the education of its young inmates. 
Nowhere is the formation of character so active, nowhere is the 
standard of conduct more influential, nowhere are the seeds of intel- 
lectual thoroughness, of moral \igor, of practical efficiency, sown 
with such prospects of fertility as in the homes of a nation. Within 
their precincts the rising generation should learn its first lessons in 
mechanics, in physics, and in chemistry, by observing how these 
forces can be used to minimize labor, to foster convenience, and to 
banish disease. Such a liberal education frees the worker from the 
slavery of unintelligent convention and outworn tradition; it links 
him with daily human interests; it introduces him to the joy of 
service." 

THE HOUSEHOLD SCIENCE BUILDING OF THE 
UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO. 

Annie L. Laird. 

The Household Science Building of the University of Toronto, the 
gift oi Mrs. Lillian Massey Treble, was formally opened on January 
28. The building was stated to be "the finest individual gift that 
the University has ever received." Sir Edmund Walker, chairman 
of the Board of Governors of the University, was chairman of the 
evening. Following President Falconer, Miss Alice Ravenhill, for- 
merly lecturer in hygiene at University of London, King's College 
for Women spoke.^ 

The following detailed description of this building is given as 
being of interest to those who are building or planning to build 
similar ones. 

Realizing that we are influenced to a considerable extent by our 
surroundings, the architects have definitely aimed to give this build- 
ing an uplifting and elevating effect upon those within its walls. 
The entrance hall, with its dado of white Italian marble, its Ionic 

'This address is found on page 250. 



258 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

pillars of the same material and marble mosaic floor and leading from 
it, the main staircase, of the same beautiful marble, are impressive. 
On the ground floor there are the large lecture hall with panelled 
walls, its comfortable seats raised in tiers, and convenient arrange- 
ments for experimental lectures; the library with the waUs lined with 
book cases, its well-lighted tables and inviting chairs made especially 
attractive by the cheerful glow from the fireplace; and connected 
with the library, a museum, which is also used as a reading room. 
There is also a faculty room with beautifully panelled walls, a fire- 
place at one end, a large table and comfortable arm chairs; two 
student's common rooms (one for household science students and 
the other for all the women students who come to the building for 
gymnasium work), fitted with tables and chairs; and a room for house- 
hold art. These rooms are all finished — either panelled or with a 
4 foot 6 inch dado — in fumed quarter-cut oak and the furniture is 
of the same material finished in the same tone of brown which 
harmonizes with the marble of the corridor. Throughout the ground 
floor and in all the corridors semi-direct lighting is used, and the soft 
diffused light from bowls and hanging lamps of Greek design made 
of camia glass enhances the beauties of the building. 

The gymnasium, which is open to all women students of the Uni- 
versity, extends through two floors — the basement and ground floors. 
The swimming pool is a few steps down from the floor of the gym- 
nasium. Surrounding the pool are classic pillars which support the 
roof, and on one side of the room there is a row of dressing rooms, 
each with a shower bath. The partitions are of white marble. There 
are also the necessary shower baths, dressing rooms and lockers for 
the gymnasium, and a drying room and hair-drying room in con- 
nection with the swimming pool. 

The second floor of the building is devoted to food work. Here 
are five food laboratories where one hundred students may at the 
same time study foods and their preparation. The attempt has been 
made to make these laboratories as sanitary as possible. The floors 
are terrazzo, the waUs, up to the tops of the doors tile, and the rest 
of the wall and the ceilings a cement which gives a hard, smooth finish. 
The desks are of oak with Tennessee marble tops, and are fitted with 
drawers (with movable partitions), a small cupboard and swing seat. 
Sinks are placed conveniently and coal, gas, and electric stoves will 
be used. There are also built-in cupboards to accommodate the 
serving dishes, which are different in color for each laboratory, and 



1913] Household Science Building, University of Toronto 259 

the necessary utensils and other equipment. The study of foods in 
the laboratory should lead up to the actual preparation and sening 
of meals, and in connection with this work there are a large dining- 
room and two small suites, each containing dining-room, pantry 
and kitchen. The walls of the large dining-room are panelled in 
oak. At one end is a built-in sideboard and at the other a big fire- 
place. The electric candelabra of old silver have dull gold shades, 
and the soft electric Ught together with the glow from the fire is very 
effective. There is a large round table in the center of the room. 
The linen used in all the dining-rooms has the initials U.H.S. embroid- 
ered in the comer, and the china of the large dining-room has on it 
in the form of a medallion, the crest of the University. Pantries, 
in which the china, linen and silver are stored, connect this dining- 
room with the laboratories on either side. 

The small suites of dining-room, pantry and kitchen have been 
planned so as to make it possible for students to prepare meals under 
home conditions. One suite is on the second floor and the other on 
the third. Adjoining these, rooms have been provided in which some 
of the teachers, and the students who are working in the home suites 
may live. The dining-rooms are finished in fumed oak and have 
a small brick fireplace. They are furnished with rug, sideboard, 
dining table and chairs, and the necessary linen, china, and silver- 
ware. The pantry and kitchens have tiled walls and are furnished 
as in a home. On the second floor are also the oflice of the household 
science department, staff rooms, and store rooms for supplies and 
equipment. 

The north wing of the third floor is devoted to household manage- 
ment. There are two laboratories in which cleaning agents and their 
effects on different materials are studied, a laundry and a home-nurs- 
ing room. The laimdry, where practical application is made of the 
knowledge gained in the laboratory, is fitted with white porcelain 
tubs, a steam boiler, steam dryer, ironing boards, ironing stove, elec- 
tric and gas irons, etc. There are also convenient cupboards. The 
home-nursing room has four hospital beds and affords excellent op- 
portunity for class work. 

The south wing of the third floor is devoted to food chemistry and 
contains the office of this department, a lecture room with adjoining 
preparation room, and laboratories. The laboratories, which are 
especially equipped for the work, provide accommodations for over 
fifty students at one time. In one of them provision has been made 



26o The Journal of Home Economics [June 

for research work of advanced students. Conveniently placed are 
the storerooms for glass and chemicals, and the balance room, and 
there is also a polariscope room. In the same wing are two private 
laboratories, one for the members of the staff in food chemistry and 
the other for the household science staff. The walls of all the lab- 
oratories on this floor are of tile and cement, as are those of the second 
floor, but the floors are of citrous tile instead of terrazzo, and the desk 
tops of the household management laboratories of alberene stone 
instead of marble, while those of the food chemistry ones are of white 
wood with a black stain ironed in. 

In planning the appointments of the entire building the nature 
of the work was kept carefully in view, and the aim has been to make 
everything not only durable, but convenient and easily cared for, 
while at the same time the artistic effect has been considered. The 
doors are plain, the panelling simple but dignified, the cupboards 
are without the usual mouldings, and grooves and square corners are 
avoided wherever possible. 

One cannot but be impressed, not only with the beauty and dignity 
of the building, but also with its utility and the fact that it is admira- 
bly adapted for the purpose for which it is designed. A bronze tab- 
let in the main entrance hall reads as follows: 

This tablet is erected by the Board of Governors to commemorate the liberality 
of Mrs. Lillian Massey Treble who presented this building to the University of 
Toronto in order to promote the work of Household Science and thereby to further 
the education of women. 




Food Cheniistrv Laboratory 




I'ood Laboratory, Household Science Building, Toronto, Onl. 



EDITORIALS. 

In the city of Washington last September, in connection with the 
Fifteenth International Congress of Hygiene and Demography, was 
held a great exhibit to illustrate the subject of per- 
Permanent sonal and public hygiene. It drew crowds of people 
Exhibits of who looked with interest at models of outdoor sleep- 
Home Ego- ing porches; studied charts showing the bearing of 
nomics. immigration on insanity; read the lists of causes of 

infant mortality, and the data concerning insect dis- 
ease carriers or death in dangerous occupations. By many this re- 
markable exhibit was considered as important as the 600 papers pre- 
sented by specialists which gave to visiting scientists the latest word 
on the prevention of disease. 

But great as was the good done by this exhibit, the newspapers at 
the time commented on its restricted value. Only for a few crowded 
days, only for such inhabitants of Washington as could be aroused 
by newspaper comment and for visitors who could make the journey 
to the capital at this special time, was the lesson available. 

The 600 papers presented during the congress have been published, 
and, in journals and bound volumes, put at the disposal of the read- 
ing world, while this ingenious and interesting collection of models 
and pictures and charts was dispersed in a night. Parts of it will 
later be shown in other cities, but they will not possess the unique 
value which they had in their entirety and in connection with other 
exhibits. 

The great expense connected with the installation of such an exhibit 
confines its benefits to large towns and special occasions, but this 
objection does not apply to smaller permanent exhibits that are quite 
within the reach of even small communities when once the importance 
of the graphic method of teaching is realized. To all it makes its 
appeal, but for the imeducated its use may be said to be indispensa- 
ble. The nurse lecturing on pure milk for the baby must illustrate 
to a live mother with a live baby, and she must pasteurize the milk 
and wash the nursing bottle in the sight of her hearers or the lesson 
is not half learned. Only by the help of eye and hand can the major- 
ity of us so grasp a fact that we can use it. 

261 



262 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

All continuous exhibits, as permanent art galleries, museums and 
libraries, have an educative power vastly greater than the occasional 
show. They feed the longing of students; they broaden the view of 
the average man; and they are there to be consulted whenever need 
or suggestion causes us to turn to such a source. In the same way 
a permanent exhibit, bearing on all phases of hygiene and the arts 
of daily life, accessible at stated times, would bear fruit in a hundred 
ways helpful to the community life. Our people must become edu- 
cated along these lines, and very soon, else great harm will result. If 
this end in practical helpfulness is in view, such a collection may be 
started along any line that appeals to local interest or pride. A town 
of 1500 inhabitants had as its cultural center a memorial library 
building with an unused room. To this a few enthusiastic townspeo- 
ple began bringing relics of the past, and this proved to be the nucleus 
of a valuable historical museum, illustrative of the life lived in the 
region by the early settlers of two or three generations past. Tools, 
dishes, agricultural implements, spinning wheels, furniture are there, 
together with the daguerreotypes of many of the men and women 
who used them. Most of the utensils are strange to the children 
of this generation, who are full of questions regarding their use. 
Here is preserved an object lesson in the manner of living of our an- 
cestors, and one result has been that this year the village school has 
made a study of early times in the locality and at the June commence- 
ment season there will be heard essays on the subject and illustrations 
will be brought from the museum. It will be extremely easy for 
the traditional two or three good-doers of a town to build on this 
foundation of interest in long past household and industrial habits 
an exhibit of modern methods in care of the sick and of infants, in 
good and bad methods of cookery, nutritional needs for different 
ages and occupations, good and bad plans for house interiors, the 
kitchen in which steps are wasted as compared with the kitchen in 
which steps are saved. Placards could tell of the best ways of laun- 
dering clothing, as approved by our technical schools, almost sure to 
be followed by a demonstration. Following the lines of the fly 
campaign which has accomplished so much, the graphic method 
could be applied to the combatting of other household pests. This 
would lead to a knowledge of the Farmers' Bulletins, issued by the 
different departments of our government and still unknown to the 
great majority of our people. Most fascinating of all material for 
placards will be found the family budget and its ideal division to 



1913] Editorials 263 

cover the needs of different groups. We love to create. Here is a 
field for practical and artistic gifts, an object far-reaching in its 
power for good. Let us have reports of the starting of the Local 
Permanent Exhibit. 

A request has been made for galley proof of the Bibliography of 
Home Economics Literature published in each issue of the Journal, 
for use in card catalogues. To meet this demand 
Bibliography the Journal will supply to Ubraries or to individuals 
for Card the galley proof of each issue at the nominal price of 

Catalogues. fifty (50) cents per year. This is an excellent way 
to put within the reach of all, in a permanent form, 
this very valuable Bibliography which is too apt to be lost in the 
back files of the magazine. 



BIBUOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS LITERATURE. 

I. Foods and Cookery. 

Experimental Studies on Milk. Edwin H. Schorer, Jour. Infect. Diseases, xi, 
1913, pp. 295-337. 

Soy Bean Curd, an Important Oriental Food Product. H. D. Gibbs and F. 
Accamili, Philippine Jour. Set. (A), vii, 191 2, pp. 47-54. 

Soy Bean and Condensed Milk. Med. Rev. of Rev., xviii, 1913, p. 513. 

TaettCj the Primitive Norse Storage Milk and Associated Milks; their Signifi- 
cance as a Nutrient. O. J. Olsen-Sopp, Chem. Ahs., vii, Februarj' 20. 1913, p. 659 
(cf. Centr. Bakt. Parasiienk, II Abt., Ref. 33, pp. 1-54). 

Sterilization, Boiling and Pasteurization of Milk. John Lovett Morse, Jour. 
Atner. Med. Assoc, 55, March 22, 1913, pp. 875-878. 

Bulgarian Bread, a Little Known Dough Fermentation. Pure Prods., viii, 1913, 
pp. 384-385- 

A Chronicle of the Tribe of Com. E. M. East, Pop Set. Mo., Ixxxii, March, 
1913, pp. 225-237. History of Maize, illustrated. 

Food Uses of the Peanut. Mrs. W. N. Hutt, Atner. Fruit and Nut Jour., vi, 

191 2, pp. 108-109. 

A Study of Nuts with Special Reference to Microscopic Identification. W. J. 
Yoimg, U. S. Dept. Agr., Bur. Chem., Bui. 160. 

Pine Nut Oil. MaxweU Adams and August Holmes Jour. Indus, and Eng. 
Chem , V, April, 1913, pp. 285-287. 

Studies on Chicken Fat. Mary E. Pennington and J. S. Hepburn, U. S. Dept. 
Agr., Bur. Chem., Circ. 103. 

Gas and Electricity for Cookery. F. S. Toogood, et al., Jour. Gas Lighting, 
cxx, 191 2, pp. 279-280. 

Flours and Foods for Diabetics. Dangerous Products Sold Under Misleading 
Claims. Jour. Amer. Med. Assoc, Ix, March 22, 1913, pp. 922-924. 

Food — Its Preparation and Distribution at Our State Institutions. Ann. Rept. 
State Charities Com., iii, 2, 191 1, pp. 52-57. 

Federal Inspection of Food in Canada. A. McGill, Proc. and Trans. Roy. Soc, 
Canada, 3 Ser., v, 191 1, pp. 71-84. 

Cooking in Country Schools. Mary I. McFadden, Amer. Jour. Ed., xlv, Feb- 
ruary, 1913, pp. 319-321. 

Traveling Kitchens. Capt. N. Dunbar Walker, Jour. Roy. Army Med. Corps, 
XX, March, 1913, pp. 248-274. Army equipment, illustrated. 

A Few Adulterants of Whole Pepper. A Troccoli and G. Verona-Rinati, Chem. 
Ahs., vii, March 20, 1913, p. 1067 (cf. Zeit. Nahr. Genussm., xxiv, p. 737). 

Preparation of Various Foodstuffs (especially Wheat and Rice); Its Efifect upon 
their Content of Organic Phosphoric Compounds and its Relation to Disease. 
E. S. Edie and G. C. E. Simpson, Brit. Med. Jour., i, 1911, 1421-1422. 

Salt Rising Bread. H. A. Kohman, Sci. Amer., March 8, 1913. 

The Prospect for Electrical Cookery. Jos. P. Baker, Good Housekeeping, April, 

1913, PP- 547-550- 
264 



IQ13J Bibliography of Current Literature 265 

2. Nutrition. 

Infant Feeding. J. L. Morse, N. Y. Med. Jour., xcvii, March 8, 1913. 

The Caloric Estimation of Percentage Mixtures of Milk. F. G. Oppenheimer, 
Med. Rev. of Rev., xviii, 1913, p. 645. 

The Scientific Basis for the Artificial Feeding of Infants. John Howland, N. Y. 
Med. Jour., April 5, 1913, pp. 715-717. Harvey Soc. Lecture, March 29. 

Practical Points in the Management of Breast Feeding. Eric Pritchard, Arch. 
Ped., XXX, March, 1913, pp. 164-179. 

One Hundred Infants from Birth to the End of the First Year. Chas. Herrman, 
Arch. Fed., xxx, February, 1913, pp. 97-111. Showing influence of good feeding, 
with charts. 

Effects of Heated and Superheated Milk on Infant's Nutrition. H. L. Coit, 
Arch. Ped., xxx, Februarj', 1913, p. 122. 

Metabolism of Lactating Women. Edw. Mellanby, Proc. Roy Soc, London, 
(B), Ixxxvi, 1913, pp. 88-109. 

Disturbances of Gastric Secretion from the Viewpoint of Therapy. H. Strauss, 
Posl Grad., xxviii, March, 1913, 238-244. 

Protein Milk as a Correction of Digestive Disturbances. H. B. Wilcox and 
M. C. Hill, Amer. Jour. Diseases of Children, v, April, 1913, pp. 297-308. 

Protein Metabolism in Infants Fed on Protein Milk. B. R. Hoobler, Amer. 
Jour. Diseases of Children, v, April, 1913, pp. 308-313. 

The Metabolism of a Dwarf. F. H. McCrudden and Graham Lusk, Jour. Biol. 
Chem., xiii, Januar>', 1913, pp. 447-455. 

The Creatine Content of Muscle under Normal Conditions. Its Relation to the 
Urinary Creatinine. V. C Myers and M. S. Fine, Jour. Biol Chem., xiv, February 
1913, pp. 9-26. 

The Chemistry of Gluconeogenesis. II. The Formation of Glucose from Valeri- 
anic and Heptylic Acids. A. I. Ringer, Jour. Biol. Chem., xiv, February, 1913, 
pp. 43-49. 

Protein Metabolism from the Standpoint of Blood and Tissue Analysis. VI. 
On Uric Acid, Urea and Total Non-Protein Nitrogen in Human Blood. Otto 
Folin and W. Denis, Jour. Biol. Chem., xiv, Februarj', 1913, pp. 29-42. 

The Rate of Protein Catabolism. E. P. Cathcart and H. H. Green, Biochem. 
Jour., vii, January, 1913, pp. 1-18. 

The Influence of Febrile Temperatures on Protein Metabolism. Gratiam and 
Poulton, Quart. Jour. Med., 1913. 

Studies on Water Drinking. XIV. The Digestive Efl5ciency of Saliva as In- 
creased by Dilution with Water. Olaf Bergeim and P. B. Hawk, Jour. Amer. 
Chem. Soc, xxxv, April, 1913, pp. 461-476. 

The Effect of Extensive Resection of the Small Intestine. J. M. Flint, Bui. 
Johns Hopkins Hosp., xxiii, 1913, pp. 127-144. 

Studies of Intestinal Intoxication. El. Metchnikoff and Eng. WoUman, Chem. 
Abs., vii, April 10, 1913, p. 1217 (cf. Ann. Inst. Pasteur, xxvi, pp. 825-851). 

The Quantitative Regulation of the Diet in Diabetes. P. J. Cammidge, Brit. 
Med. Jour., ii, 191 2, 951-953. 

Diabetic Standards. Elliott P. Joslin, Amer. Jour. Med. Sci., cxlv, April, 
1913, pp. 474-487. 



266 The Journal oj Home Economics [June 

The Consumption of Sugar in the Normal and Diabetic Heart. F. P. Knowlton 
and E. H. Starting, Jour. Physiol., xlv, 1913, pp. 146-163. 

The Nitrogenous Constituents of Lime Juice. C. Funk, Biochem Jour., vii, 
January, 1913, pp. 81-86. 

Oats in Human Nutrition. Pluchet and Neviat, Chem. Abs., vii, I9i3,pp. 1061 
(cf. Bull. Soc. Nat. Agr., France, Ixxii pp. 586-591). 

An Experimental Study of Alcohol on the Germ Cells and the Developing 
Embr>-os of Mammals. Stockard and Craig, Chem. Abs., xii, 1913, p. 1059 (cf. 
Arch. Entwickl. Org. xxxv, p. 569). 

The Etiology of Beri-Beri. R. P. Strong and B. C. Crowell, Jour. State Med. 
(London), xxi, March, 1913, pp. 129-150. 

Third Contribution to the Etiology of Beri-Beri. W. P. Chamberlain, E. B. 
Vedder and R. R. Williams, Philippine Jour. Set. (B), vii, 1913, pp. 39-52. 

Feeding in Relation to the Teeth. Geo. C. Kusel, Arch. Fed., xxx, January, 

1913, PP- 34-43- 

Creatine and Creatinine in Animal Metabolism. W. H. Thompson and T. A. 
Wallace, Brit. Med. Jour., ii, 191 1, pp. 1065. 

Nutritive Effects of Beef Extract. W. H. Thompson, Wm. Caldwell and T. 
A. Wallace, Brit. Med. Jour., ii, 191 1, pp. 13-9- 

The Essential Constituents in Food. E. F. Armstrong, Chem. World, i, 1913, 
pp. 147-149- 

The Physiological Significance of Some Substances Used in the Preservation 
of Food. John H. Long, Science, xxxvii, March 14, 1913, pp. 395-404. 

The Regulation of Neutrality in the Animal Body. L. J. Henderson, Science, 
xxxvii, March 14, 1913, pp. 389-395. 

The Nutritive Value of the Proteins of Maize. T. B. Osborne, Science, xxxvii, 
January 31, 1913, pp. 185-191. 

3. Hygiene and Sanitation. 

Theory and Principles of Street Cleaning. S. WTiinery, Amer. Jour. Pub. 
Health, iii, March, 1913, pp. 209-216. 

A Unique Organization of Milk Dealers. Frederic D. Bell, Amer. Jour. Pub. 
Health, iii, March, 1913, pp. 248-254. Object, to improve the milk supply. 

Mosquito Catching in Dwellings in the Prophylaxis of Malaria. A. J. Orenstein, 
Amer. Jour. Pub. Health, iii, February, 1913 (new ser.), pp. 111-123. 

Rural Sanitation. Henry C. Ogden, Med. Rev. of Rev., xix, March, 1913, pp. 
204-206. 

The Division of Food Inspection and Its Work. Mo. Bui., Dept. of Health, 
New York City, February, 1913. 

Revitahzing Devitalized Children. Walter W. Roach, Amer. Jour. Pub. Health, 
iii, February, 1913 (new ser.), pp. 138-139. By fresh air in school rooms. 

Water and Water SuppHes. R. O. Clock, Dietet. and Hyg. Gaz., February 1913, 
pp. 57-66. 

Methods Employed and Results Obtained in Improving the Milk Supply of 
Springfield, Mass. J. A. Gamble, Amer. Jour. Pub. Health, January, 1913, pp. 
72-77. 



1Q13] Bibliography of Current Literature 267 

Chicago Housing Conditions. VII. Two Italian Districts. Grace Peloubet 
Norton, Amer. Jour. Soc, rviii, January. 1913, 509-542. 

A Bacteriological Study of Shell, Frozen and Desiccated Eggs. G. W. Stiles 
and C. Bates. U. S. Dept. Agr., Bur. Chem., Bui. ij8. 

Bacteria and Ice Cream. B. W. Hammer, Iowa Sta. Btd., 134, 1913, pp. 278- 
302. 

Occupational Diseases. H. B. Blakey, Bui. Ohio Bd. of Health. 3, 1913, no. 3. 
pp. 172-179- 

A Construction Program for Housing Reform. Mildred Chadsey, Chief Sani- 
tary Inspector, Cleveland, O., Bui. Ohio Bd. of Health, 3, 1913, no. 3, pp. 157-165. 

Methods of Water Purification for Large Cities. Rudolph 'Henng, Jour. Amer. 
Med. Assoc, be, February 8, 1913, pp. 411-415. 

The Composition of the .\tm05phere. with Special Reference to its Oxygen 
Content. F. G. Benedict, Carnegie Inst, of Washington Puh.. p. 166, 191 2. 

Inspection of Meat and Other Foods. J. C. Dawes, Sanit. Rec, 1, 1913, pp. 186- 
187. pp. 213-214. 

Warmth, the Real Evil in Breathing Impure Air. Leonard Hill, Min. Eng. 
World, xxx\'ii, 1913, pp. 713-714. 

4. EDUC.A.TION .\ND SOCIAL WORK. 

The Reduction of Infant Mortality in New York City. S. Josephine Baker, 
Amer. Jour. Diseases of Children, v, February, 1913, pp. 151-161. 

Statistical Comparison of the Mortality of Breast-Fed and Bottle-Fed Infants. 
Wm. H. Davis, Amer. Jour. Diseases of Children, v, March, 1913, pp. 234-248. 

Health Expenditures of the Federal Government. Editorial, Jour. Amer. Med. 
Assoc, be, March 22, 1913, pp. 904-906. 

Domestic Life and the Consumption of Wealth: the Economic Method of Le 
Plag. Mabel Atkinson, Soc. Rev., January, 1913, pp. 17-28 

The Institutional Character of Pecuniary Valuation. C. H. Cooley, Amer. Jour. 
Soc, January, 1913, pp. 543-555- 

Domestic Economy of Finnish Workmen. J. H. Snodgras, Daily Cons, and 
Trade Rpts., xv, 1912, pp. 1231. 

The Mental Defective and Society. W. L. Stowell, Arch. Pediat., xxx, March, 
1913, pp. 203-209. 

Eugenics or Race Betterment. \'ictor C. Vaughan, Mich. Pub. Health Bui., 
January-March, 1913. 

The Value of Human Life. C. V. Chapin, Amer. Jour. Pub. Health, iii, Feb- 
ruary, 1913 (new sen), pp. 101-106. 

Education for Parenthood. Helen C. Putnam, Bui. Amer. Acad. Med., xiv, 
February, 1913, pp. 55-66. Value of home economics. 

Different CivTlization Levels in Modem Society. Maximilian P. E. Groszmann, 
Bid. Amer. Acad. Med., xiii, 1913, no. 6. 

Medical Inspection of Schools from the Point of View of the Health Officer. 
J. F. Edwards, Bui. Amer. Acad. Med., xiii, 1913, no. 6. 

Medical Inspection in Schools from the Standpoint of the liducator. Thomas 
A. Storey, Bui. Amer. Acad. Med., xiii, 1913, no. 6. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE. 

Any books or periodicals mentioned in this department may be obtained through 
the Journal of Home Economics at the price listed. 

The Physiology of Protein Metabolism. By E. P. Cathcart. Longmans, Green 
and Company, New York. 1912. $1.25. By mail of the Journal, $1.35. 

The author states that it has not been his purpose to cover the whole literature 
of protein metabolism but rather to provide a discussion of the more important 
results published during the last decade and their bearing upon the work of earlier 
investigators. " The majority of recent writers," he states, "have devoted their atten- 
tion to the study of metabolism of particular constituents of the protein molecule; 
an attempt has been made in this monograph to avoid laying undue stress on the 
fate of these since it is felt that a truer picture of the real course of protein metab- 
olism can thus be drawn." 

There are chapters on the following subjects: Digestion and absorption of 
proteins; protein regeneration; feeding experiments with biuret products of diges- 
tion; deaminazation; influence of the food on the composition of the tissues; pro- 
tein requirements; theories of protein metabolism; starvation; and work, which 
includes such questions as the influence of work on the output of nitrogen, the 
difference between voluntary and involuntary muscle contraction, and carbohy- 
drates and fats as protein sparers. 

An index and bibliography are provided. The book as a whole is an important 
addition to the literature of protein. 

The Condition of Nourishment of Pupils in Munich Public Schools. By 
K. Oppenheimer and W. Landauer. Miinchen. Med. Wchnschr., 58, 1911, no. 
42, pp. 2218-2220; 59, 1912, no. 13, pp. 705, 706, dgm. I. 

The first of the articles included reports on a study of the physical condition of 
school children in two public schools in Munich, viz: a district populated mainly 
by day laborers, and one including some families in more comfortable circumstances. 
Age, weight, height, chest, upper arm measurements and general condition, were 
noted, and the relation between height and body weight of each child calculated. 
Comparing these figures with those commonly accepted as standard for children 
of various ages, the authors found that the children in both the schools investigated, 
notably in that in the poorer section, were decidedly below normal, on the average. 

The second article included is an answer to criticisms called out by the deduc- 
tions that the children here studied were necessarily undernourished. The authors 
suggest that a distinction be made between quantitative and qualitative under- 
nourishment and discuss the most satisfactory means of determining general physi- 
cal development from physical measurements, and similar topics. ^ jggj j 

268 



1913] Books and Literature 269 

The Effect of a Strictly Vegetable Diet on the Spontaneous Activity, the 
Rate of Growth, and the Longevity of the Albino Rat. By J. R. Slonaker. 
Leland Stanford Jr. Univ. Pubs., Univ. Ser., 1912, pp. 56, pi. i, figs. 15. 

Using two groups of young rats the same age and as nearly as possible of the 
same parentage, the author studied the effects of a vegetable diet in comparison 
with the same diet plus animal food. According to the author's conclusions, the 
omnivorous feeders were more active and voluntarily did much more work than 
the rats on a vegetarian diet, the average ratio of efficiency being 7.5 :i. 

"The effect on general conditions of the body was most overwhelmingly in 
favor of the omnivorous. The vegetarians were frail, weak, and showed extreme 
lassitude and indifference. The omnivorous were the reverse in all these respects. 

"The average life of the omnivorous was 1,020 days, that of the vegetarian 555 
daj-s. This was a ratio of 1.84 :i." 

Revitalizing Devitalized Children — An Open Window Experiment. By 
Walter W. Roach, A.M., M.D. Reprinted from American Journal of Public 
Health, 3, 1913, no. 2. 

This reprint is "a comparison between the progress of pupils taught in an 
open-window class-room and that of the pupils of a parallel grade taught in an 
ordinarily ventilated and heated class-room in the same school building." The 
experiment was conducted during the winter session of 191 2. Desk chairs were 
used that could be easily moved aside for physical exercise. Woolen blankets, 
sweaters, woolen caps and hoods and knitted woolen gloves were provided for 
use in extremely cold weather. At the beginning of the experiment the children of 
both rooms were examined as to weight, height and chest measurement, and at 
the end of twelve weeks they were again exammed. Those in the open air aver- 
aged a gain of two pounds, while those in the warm room, which was however 
well ventilated, averaged only one pound gain each. The work of the fresh air 
children also showed improvement. While in a marked degree these results are 
very interesting and point to the value of the fresh air school-room yet the e.xperi- 
ments were conducted for such a brief period of time that they cannot be con- 
sidered conclusive. It is understood that these e.xperiments will be continued. 

School Feeding: Its History and Practice at Home and Abroad. By Louise 
Stevens Br>'ant, of the Psychological Clinic, University of Pennsylvania. J. B. 
Lippincott Company, Philadelphia, 16 full-page illustrations and 6 charts in 
text. Octavo 233 -|- Index 12. $1.50. By mail of the Journal, $1.62. 

Public interest in the welfare of school children has made rapid advance along the 
line of settling problems leading to the prevention of physical deterioration. This 
splendid book on School Feeding by Mrs. Bryant presents an epitome of the prog- 
ress which has been made in relating nutrition to education. The scope of the 
book includes the history and the present status of the School Feeding Movement 
in Germany, France, and England, and takes up in detail the results and the inves- 
tigations of the Interdepartmental Committee on Physical Deterioration which 
first convinced England of the necessity of considering means for safeguarding the 
physical health of public school children. A chapter is given to a thorough discus- 



270 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

sion of the provision of meals in the public schools of Great Britain after the passage 
of the Provision of Meals Act in 1906, which transferred the obligation of feeding 
hungry children from public or private charities to the local educational authorities. 

Similarly, chapters are devoted to an analysis of the Cantines Scolaires of France, 
and various regulations which relate to the supplying of school meals in such Ger- 
man municipalities as Stuttgart and Charlottenburg. 

The plan and legislation upon which they were based in Switzerland, Italy, Aus- 
tria, Sweden, Norway, Belgium and Denmark receive brief but adequate description. 
Two long chapters deal with the problems of elementary lunches in elementary 
schools in New York, Philadelphia, Boston, Cincinnati, and St. Louis, together with 
an extensive discussion of the cost and mode of administration of meals in open- 
air schools. 

The fifteen pages which are given to the Investigation of Underfeeding among 
American School Children give sufficient evidence to indicate the necessity and 
importance of school feeding for the purpose of safeguarding children from the mal- 
nutrition generally resultant from poverty and ignorance. For those who are not 
aware of the evidences of malnutrition in childhood, there is offered a concise dis- 
cussion of the problem showing very clearly the relation of malnutrition to physical 
and mental defects. The two concluding chapters deal with the Food Needs of 
Growing Children together with a discussion of the caloric value and methods of 
preparation of school menus. 

A most valuable feature of the volume is the thirty-two pages of annotated 
bibliography which is well prepared and practically complete to the date of 
publication. 

A series of appendices present the English Provision of Meals Act of 1906 and the 
circulars issued by the London Board of Education, as well as regulations of the school 
breakfasts in Stuttgart. The remainder of the appendices are devoted to menus 
of dinners supplied at Bradford, England, and the Philadelphia schools, giving the 
per capita amount of the ingredients together with the per capita amount of pro- 
tein and fat that is provided. 

The book is carefully prepared, written in a most readable manner and supplies 
a wide range of information which is essential for the development of school feeding 
in this country. It may be unhesitatingly recommended as an authoritative volume 
which has a large measure of usefulness before it in educating the public to the im- 
portance of school feeding. 

The Milk Question, By M. J. Rosenau. New York: Houghton, Miflflin Com- 
pany, 1912, pp. 310. $2.00. By mail of the Journal, $2.16. 

This book is a simple and effective statement of an old question of vital impor- 
tance, but one very generally misunderstood and largely misrepresented. The 
author is eminently fair in all his statements and makes a strong and effective 
plea for the truth. In the opening chapter under general considerations he pre- 
sents his subject to the reader in such form that it cannot fail to attract. In the 
following chapters he then gives the necessary chemical and dietary data, dis- 
cusses lactation, and makes a comparison of the various milks. The question of 
dirty milk and its dangers as a breeder of disease is treated fully, and also the diseases 
caused by impure milk, showing that all the blame must not be attached to the 



1913] Books and Literature 271 

milk, but much of it to human carelessness. The manner and cost of obtaining 
clean milk are discussed, and the card system of inspection explained. In conclusion 
the author shows how the consumer can help in obtaining clean milk, and the 
amount of responsibility that rests upon him. The book is a valuable contribu- 
tion to the subject not only of milk but of foods and sanitation. 

Proceedings of the American Association for Study and Prevention of Infant 
Mortality. Third Annual Meeting held at Cleveland, Ohio, October, 2-5, 1912. 
Published by the Association, Medical and Chirurgical Faculty Building, Balti- 
more, Marj-land. 

This report, in addition to the list of officers, reports of the secretary and treas- 
urer, and the general discussions and transactions, contains in full the very inter- 
esting papers that were presented at the meeting. The papers are printed under 
the sections under which they were delivered, and a partial list of them is given, 
as showing the valuable and broad work which the Association is doing. "The 
Aseptic Rearing of Children," Jacques Bertillon, M.D.; "The Federal Children's 
Bureau," Julia C. Lathrop; "Eugenics: The Rearing of the Human Thoroughbred," 
H. E. Jordan, Ph.D.; "Better Parents of Better Children," Helen C. Putnam, 
M.D.; "Education of Boys and Men for Home-Making in Part-Time and Con- 
tinuation Schools," C. A. Prosser; "Home Economics Work in the United States 
for Men and Boys," Dr. C. F. Langworthy (see page 239 of this issue); Papers 
imder the Section on Eugenics, Papers under the Sections of Birth Registration; 
Midwifery; Housing; Nursing and Social Work, among them being "Caroline Rest 
and School for Mothers," Miss F. Freese, R.N., and "The Public Health School 
Nurse and Infant Mortality," John H. Lowman, M.D. The volume contains 
also interesting reports of the affiliated societies, the Constitution of the Association 
and a list of the members. 

Institution Recipes. By Emma Smedley. Published by the author, Media, Pa. 
$1.25. By mail of the Journal, $1.35. 

The increasingly large number of those who believe that food cooked in large 
quantities may be appetizing, attractive and varied, will welcome the second edi- 
tion of Miss Smedley's Institution Recipes. The writer has made no attempt to 
adapt her book so that it may be used in families, but, as the title indicates, has 
made a collection of recipes for large quantity cooking. 

The book bears throughout the stamp of efficiency. For each recipe, the quanti- 
ties to be used are stated in large units, and the exact number of people served is 
indicated. To further simplify the work for the one who is preparing the food, 
recipes are planned to serve one hundred or one hundred and fifty people, so that 
modifications to suit larger or smaller groups may be accurately made with a mini- 
mum of trouble. The worker who is obliged to vary her quantities will find the 
table on pages 5 and 6 helpful, and also the table of proportions on page 7. Direc- 
tions are concise, clear and explicit, and there is an entire absence of involved sen- 
tences, or misleading statements. Nearly two hundred pages are given to the 
recipes themselves. They are grouped according to subjects and present a wide 
variety of ways of serving the staple articles of diet. Eighteen pages, for example, 



2 72 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

are given to the cooking of meats, and the chapter includes in addition a few pages 
of valuable suggestions in regard to the buying and handling of meat. About sixty 
pages are given to salads, sandwiches, desserts, sauces for puddings, cake, and 
frozen desserts, and a glance over these pages is enough to show that this book of 
institution recipes tells how to prepare in large quantities the salads and desserts 
which are the joy and pride of the housekeeper in her own home, and which, in 
addition to a dietetic value of their own, go a long way toward making an attractive 
menu. 

Many new recipes have been added in this edition, and are included in the com- 
plete index at the back of the book. 

Miss Smedley's receipes have been thoroughly tested in the Johns Hopkins 
Hospital Training School, and more recently in the different lunch rooms of the 
Philadelphia high schools, of which she now has entire charge. 

Miss Smedley has made this second edition of her book especially valuable through 
the addition of matter describing briefly, but quite in detail, the luncheon system 
which is in use in all the Philadelphia high schools. On page 207, she states what is 
served at a t>T)ical lunch both for pupils and teachers. Complete menus for a 
week are given, and also a week's menus for institutions providing the three daily 
meals. At the end of the book are sixteen pages, which are worth much to any 
Board of Education as giving all directions for inaugurating such a system. The 
chapter on Equipment would simpUfy immeasurably the inauguration of a new 
and up-to-date luncheon system. 



Birmingham Studies in Social Economics and Adjacent Fields. H. The Pub- 
lic Feeding of Elementary School Children. By Phyllis D. Winder, Birmingham 
Women's Settlement. New York: Longmans, Green and Company, 1913. 
$0.75, By mail of the Journal, $0.81. 

A review of the general situation and an inquiry in the Birmingham experience. 



Publications of the Society for Social Reform: School Feeding in Greater 
Berlin. By Helen Simon. (Schrif ten der Gesellschaft fiir Soziale Reform. Die 
Schulspeisung in Gross Berlin). Herausgegeben von dem Vorstande. Hest 8 des 
IV. Bandes, der Gonze Riehe 41. Hest. Jena: Verlag von Gustav Fischer, 
1912. Preis: -|- 50 Pfg. 



The Care Committee : The Child and the Parent. By Douglas Pepler. London: 

Constable and Company, Ltd., 191 2. 2 s. 

A small volume containmg the history of the Provision of Meals Act to the 
children of poor parents; and an account of the children's care committees, their 
work and organization, with particular reference to the place of the voluntary 
worker and the duties of an official. 



1913] Books and Literature 273 

A Book of Hand-Woven Coverlets. By Eliza Calvert Hall. Little, Brown and 

Company, Boston, 191 2. 16 colored and 48 half-tone illustrations. Price $3. 

By mail of the Journal, $3.24. 

That this book is the work of an enthusiastic admirer and collector of handmade 
American coverlets is apparent throughout. Her belief that they represent an 
important phase of artistic expression also permeates the volume. On an early 
page she says, for example, that "The colonial coverlet is to American art what 
the prose works of Increase Mather and the verses ot Anne Bradstreet are to Amer- 
ican literature." There are many charming descriptions given of the different steps 
in the making of the coverlets, some of them probably imaginary, others based on 
old records regarding the home preparation of the linen and wool threads, the 
dyeing, and the weaving. 

The British, Dutch, Scandinavian, and French settlers in the American colonies 
all brought the art of home weaving to this country, but it was perhaps most highly 
developed among the Scandinavians and the French Huguenots. Interesting 
specimens of home weaving are to be found throughout all the states of the northern 
and middle Atlantic seaboard and also in the southern mountain states. The de- 
signs are for the most part strictly geometric but often very intricate. Some of 
the weavers used to work with no written guide, others from brief notes, and still 
others from designs or drafts set up in such a way that they rather resembled a 
musical staff. There were at least six methods cf writing drafts and these rather 
indicate the nationality of the weaver who employed them. The art of weaving 
seems to have been more or less inherited, some families being especially gifted. 
Practically all of the designs were named by the weaver, who sometimes put his 
or her name into the margin along with the date of making, and the same design 
often appears under different names in different localities. The book includes a 
list of several hundred of these names, some of them flowery, leafy, or poetic; 
some prosaic or grotesque; some purely fanciful; and some evidently given to 
celebrate a contemporary event. In only a few cases does the name at all suggest 
the design. The quaint and homely recipes for dyeing the wool by means of wild 
plants make the chapter on colors especially charming. The methods, though 
crude and empirical, gave results which, according to the author, rivaled those of 
Oriental rug makers in softness and durability of tone. The coverlet designs may 
include several contrasting colors, two or more tints of the same color, a single color 
combined with white, or simply one color softened by the linen warp threads. 

Early in the nineteenth century the professional weaver began to make his 
appearance. Housekeepers still prepared the wool, but let the professional make 
it up as he (or she, as the case might be,) was of course better able to handle the 
intricacies of the double weaving which now became popular. This type of weav- 
ing corresponds roughly to machine-made Marseilles coverlets and allows of very 
elaborate designs. The famous "E pluribus unum" quilts, with their patriotic 
emblems, mottoes, etc., perhaps represent the acme of the art. 

The oldest specimens of hand-woven coverlets now in existence hardly go back 
more than one hundred and twenty-five years. By the time of the Civil War 
hand weaving had sunk practically into disuse, though the simpler forms survived 
to a limited extent in the remoter districts of the southern mountains. The schools 
and other institutions interested in developing handicraft among the southern 
mountaineers of today have reintroduced both single and double weaving in those 
sections of the country. 



274 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

The illustrations of the book, both half-tone and colored, are accompanied by 
notes regarding the history of their subjects, and give an excellent idea of the 
character of the designs. Though perhaps one may not agree with the author 
that the best of the coverlets "are to the textile world what Raphael's 'Transfigur- 
ation' is to the world of art," one leaves the book in full sympathy with her feel- 
ing that they represent one of the most common and enduring forms of artistic 
expression known to American women in colonial and early republican times. 

Household Textiles. By Charlotte M. Gibbs. ^\^litcomb and Barrows, Bos- 
ton. $1.25. B3' mail of the Journal, $1.35. 

This is an instructive book for the housewife, and an aid as reference book for 
the college student. There is an introductory chapter on the early development 
of the textile art, and in this as in the chapter on spinning and weaving, the status 
of the textile art in earlier stages of culture is so presented that the achievements 
of the primitive tribes of Egypt, India and Mediaeval Europe furnish an interest- 
ing groundwork on which to build an intensive study of the modern textile art. 
After a classification of the textile fibers in most common use, the detailed study 
of these follows, covering the history of the cultivation and distribution of the 
fiber; its relative importance in modern industry; the physical and chemical 
structure and characteristics; and the processes involved in the making of cloth 
from the preparation for the mill to the woven fabric. 

The subjects of bleaching, dyeing, printing, and finishing are treated in a popular 
and intelligible manner, a fact which makes the book welcome to the average reader. 
The discussion of the methods of adulteration and imitation with some simple 
tests easily applied, aim to instruct the non-scientifically trained reader, as do also 
the chapters on the hygiene of clothing materials, on labor conditions and efforts 
to improve them, and on the arts and craft movement. The subject of design 
and color in textile fabrics is treated from the standpoint of principles involved, 
and is illustrated with applications of the same. Miss Gibbs has given us a timely 
book well illustrated. 



Dressmaking Self Taught. By Edith Marie Carens. Carens College of Dress- 
making, Jacksonville, Fla. $1.00. By mail of the Journal, $1.08. 

This book is composed of a series of twenty lessons describing in detail the mak- 
ing of garments, plain shirtwaists and tailored skirts, undergarments and wash 
dresses, and also more elaborate dressmaking, tailored coats and suits. There 
is an introductory lesson in hand sewing accompanied by diagramatic illustrations. 

The system of instruction in cutting patterns is one of modification of commercial 
paper patterns to suit the individual, and the suggestions in cutting and fitting are 
therefore valuable to the learner at home who has no knowledge of any drafting 
system. Preceding each lesson are good directions for taking measures, and fol- 
lowing each are found constructive advice in technique, rules to remember and 
questions suggesting applications of the lesson. The book is written in a popular 
style and is of value to the teacher and also to the home dressmaker who wishes 
to become a professional. 



1913] Books and Literature 275 

The Story of Textiles. By Perry Walton. Boston: Lawrence and Company. 
1912. Pp. 274. 

In the foreword the author states that the different branches of textile industry 
have from time to time been treated, yet the origin and growth of the industry 
as a whole has never been written. "This book, of which some explanation is 
necessar>', is an effort to fill this gap. Although a complete history has not been 
the aim of the writer nor the desire of the publisher, the purpose has been to pre- 
sent to those interested in the textile industry a bird's-eye view of the leading 
facts which have marked the progress of the industry up to the firm establishment 
of the manufacture of textiles on American soil, together with such intervening 
facts as are necessarj' to give one a comprehensive view of the subject." The book 
is interesting, well written, and is often entertaining. A brief survey of the begin- 
ning of textiles is followed by the history of the factory system from an account 
of John Wincombe's factor>' in his Newbury home in 1515, where he is described 
as having "kept one hundred looms in his house, each managed by a man and 
a boy," with a short account of the invention of textile machinery and a brief 
mention of the men to whom the textile industry owes the basic inventions which 
have revolutionized it, through the era of invention down to the present day. 
The textile industry in .\merica is treated quite fully, beginning with American 
industry- before the Revolution, American industry after the Revolution and before 
Slater, era of Samuel Slater, era of Lowell, .Appleton, Moody, Jackson and Boott, 
and concludes with a short summary of the various textile centers of the United 
States. There are many interesting illustrations. 

Dyes and Dyeing. By Charles E. Pellew, formerly Adjunct Professor of Chemistry 
at Columbia University. McBride, Nast and Company, New York, 1913. Pp. 
viii + 264. By mail, $2.00. 

"The book is intended for the use of craftsmen and others who are trying to dye 
and stain textiles by hand on a small scale, rather than for professional dyers or 
dyeing chemists who are interested in factory dyeing conducted on a large scale." 

Teachers of art and of textiles will find Dyes and Dyeing a textbook which is 
very reliable and at the same time extremely readable. The book commands 
absorbing interest because it combines in one volume some generally unknown facts 
about the art of dyeing in ancient times; a study of the various natural dyes which 
are most commonly used by different peoples, and their method of application; an 
exposition of the discovery, properties and uses of the manufactured dye stuffs 
now so widely used. Popular distrust of coal tar colors should be dispelled when 
craftsmen and even the courageous housewife follow the simple directions given in 
such chapters as, The Theory and Practice of Color Dyeing; Dyeing Feathers; 
Leather and Leather Dyeing; Tied and Dyed Work. There is a clear and adequate 
treatment of the five chief classes of dyes used by professionals today, with lists of 
tried and tested dyes, together with the addresses of the distributors from whom 
they may be obtained. There is a timely treatment of the subjects of silk dyeing, 
silk weighting, tests for silk adulteration, and of imitations and artificial silks. 

The various interesting methods suitable for craftsmen by which dyestuffs are 
used to form patterns on cloth are treated under the headings of Tied and Dyed 
Work, as practiced in different parts of the world; Stencils and Stenciling, as prac- 



276 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

ticed by the Japanese, with directions for improved technique of American students; 
Batik or Waxed Resist, which is an interesting form of the Japanese textile art, and 
which can be performed easily by students of applied art in schools. 

The book is well illustrated both in color and in black and white. It is to be re- 
commended to craftsmen, to students, and to teachers of textiles. 

Colour Harmony in Dress. By G. A. Audsley. New York: McBride, Nast and 
Company. $0.75. By mail of the Joiurnal, $0.81. 

Most writers on topics of dress are satisfied, when discussing the difficult ques- 
tion of color, to give arbitrary, and usually quite empirical tables of colors suited 
to women of different physical types. Mr. Audsley has done much better by his 
readers. He has a scientific knowledge of his subject which enables him to base 
his instruction on "the teaching of the natural phenomena of colour and colour 
combinations which no individual opinion can possibly affect or dispute." The 
chapter on "Harmony of Colour" discusses, in a simplified form, the laws of har- 
monious color; in the brief chapter on "Simultaneous Contrast" the effect upon 
the eye of the association of colors is taken up; the long chapter on "Colour in 
Dress" presents extensive lists of colors for types and gives the laws of their choice. 

Mr. Audsley 's little book will interest every v/oman who gives intelligent thought 
to the problems of dress; it will be of particular service to teachers of domestic art. 

Household Statistics — An Historical and Methodological Investigation. By 
G. Albrecht. (Haushaltungsstatistik — eine literarhistorische und methodologische 
Untersuchung. Berlin; 1912, pp. viii + 126, fig. i) 

This is a rather technical statement of the significance, nature, and methods of 
the statistics of household economy. The first half of the book gives an historical 
sketch of the development of the subject from the unsj'stemized work of Young, 
Davies, Edens, et al., through that of Ducp^tiaux and Le Play, to the systematic 
application of the account book method by modem scientific statisticians, and 
includes an extensive bibliography of the historical material. The second half of 
the book deals with the principles by means of which uniformity in household 
statistics may be secured; discusses the nature, choice, and utilization of material; 
and gives a few typical tables, charts, etc. 

The Evolution of the Country Community — A Study in Religious Sociology. 
By Warren H. Wilson. Boston, New York, and Chicago: The Pilgrim Press. 
1912, pp. xvii -|- 221. $1.25. By mail of the Journal, $1.35. 

The purpose of this book is indicated in the preface written by Prof. Franklin 
Giddings, who points out that for the solution of the problem of maintaining the 
good life in our rural communities a thorough understanding and analysis of its 
factors and conditions are essential. 

This social unit has "suffered in nearly every imaginable way from the rapid 
and rather crude development of our industrial civilization," and many of the 
difficulties now apparent are due to anomalies between its economic, social, and 
ethical standards which in many instances belong to different phases of agricul- 
tural development. Four such phases may be traced in the history of agriculture 
in the United States, each producing its typical effect on the individual, family, 
and community life The first is that of the pioneer and is marked by intense 



1913] Books and Literature 277 

individualism induced by solitary conflict with the forces of nature, isolation, and 
lack of permanent dwelling place. After the pioneer phase came that of the land 
farmer who cultivated the soil for immediate utility. He had little community 
consciousness; the central part of his social life and responsibility was his family 
or household group, and in a conflict between its interests and those of the com- 
mvmity he would favor the former. By 1890 agricultural development had in its 
economic aspects mainly passed out of the land farmer phase, but the ethical 
standards of most rural communities changed less rapidly. The third phase, that 
of the land exploiter, bridges over the industrial revolution between the methods 
of the land farmer and the modem husbandman or trained economist in agriculture. 
To the exploiter the immediate money value is the only one apparent, and he 
ruthlessly exhausts the soil and the other natural resources of the country for direct 
pecuniar}' advantage. Fortunately, the exploiter tends to work his own destruc- 
tion, and in his place is appearing the husbandman, the t>'pical cultivator of the 
fourth and as yet incomplete phase of our agricultural development. The aim 
of the latter is by the application of scientific principles to adapt his crops to the 
specific nature of his land and to get the largest product consistent with the proper 
conservation of soil value. This type of agriculture requires both trained leaders 
and intelligent workers, and tends to change the social unit from the household 
group to the community itself. More than this, now that land has become limited 
in amount "the very fact that one-third of the people must feed all the people 

imposes ethical and religious considerations upon the farmer This 

means that with the growing consciousness of scientific agriculture there will arise, 
indeed is now arising, a new ethical and religious feeling among country people." 

"The power of the community to attract and hold individual lives, supplying 
them with the vital necessities for which the individual craves, is dependent in 
America upon educational institutions more than any other factor." At the close 
of the land farmer period, country schools failed in their community work in so 
far as they encouraged pupils to leave the country, and neither produced leaders 
nor trained average workers for rural life. This was partly due to poor equipment 
and the lack of professional standards among the teachers, but mainly to a total 
lack of understanding of the needs of the community. The present tendency 
toward centralizing rural schools and the introduction of vocational courses in 
agriculture, manual training, and domestic science, indicate a conscious effort to 
adapt the school system to present requirements. 

The lessened influence of the country church may be explained in a similar way. 
The "old-fashioned literary interpretation of God and biblical ministry" were 
suited to a community in which the ethical and social ideals centered in the house- 
hold group of the small land owner, but make less appeal to one which consciously 
or unsconsciously is struggling to readjust its ethical standards to changed eco- 
nomic and social conditions. If the church is to be a stimulus under such condi- 
tions, its business is to preach cooperation as an ethical principle, "to organize 
cooperative enterprises, economic, social, and educational, and to school the people 
in the joy, and educate them in the advantages of life together," and it should 
be a leader in the organized recreation which inevitably develops wherever indus- 
try is organized. \\Tiere a church has thus responded to the vital needs of a 
community, such questions as church consolidation, means of attracting worship- 
pers, etc., are settled with little effort. 

The book gives many specific examples of these, the main points of its argument, 



278 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

and signifies the author's belief "that a population can be improved by social 
service, that the community is the unit by which such service should be rendered 
in the country, and that by the vision and inspiration of the church in the country 
this service is conditioned." It suffers at times from a phraseology so technical 
as to be slightly bewildering to the lay reader, nevertheless he joins with Professor 
Giddings in welcoming it as a " fine product of studies and labors at once scientific 
and practical." 

The Advance of Woman, from the Earliest Times to the Present. By Jane 
Johnstone Christie. J. B. Lippincott, Philadelphia 19 12. $1.50. By mail of 
the Journal, $1.62. 

As Alice Henry says in a review in the Survey, this book seems to have been writ- 
ten with the Bible at one side of the desk and Ward's Sociology at the other. It 
assumes to trace the history of woman through periods of time regarding which 
we have very little information. One might take issue with some of the positions 
taken as regards man as ruler, woman's degradation, man a social coward, etc. With 
regard to the fundamental point that progress will only come as men and women 
join in working for it, and that real home life depends upon unity of purpose and 
ideals, all will be in hearty agreement. In a word the book makes an unnecessary 
amount of ado about things regarding which we cannot be at all certain. We do 
know the present and can see something of the future. Woman's advance and 
man's advance are bound to turn upon this ideal, personal \mity in family life 
referred to above. A book which would outline methods of progress rather than 
berate humanity for past errors would be double the value of this book, although 
it is decidedly worth reading. 

Report of the Women's Institutes of the Province of Ontario. Toronto: 
Ontario Department of Agriculture, 191 2. 

This report gives in detail the proceedings of the tenth aimual convention of 
the Ontario Women's Institutes. An interesting account of these Institutes by 
the superintendent appears in this issue of the Journal. In addition to the report 
of the work of the Institutes in the counties of the province, some of the papers 
are printed in full, the following being of particular interest: " Electricity on the 
Farm and in the Home;" "Young Women and the Twentieth Century;" "The 
School: Its relation to the Community;" "What Can We Do for the Boys?" "St. 
John's Ambulance Association;" "Water Supply for Country and Village Homes;" 
"How to Keep Well;" "The Value of Cheese in the Diet;" "Domestic Science;" 
"Medical Inspection in Rural Schools;" "Rural School Houses and Their Equip- 
ment;" "The Doctor in the School;" "Hygiene for Rural Schools." This report 
contains many suggestions for club study, and valuable reports as to the success 
of such studies in various communities. 

School Janitors, Mothers, and Health. By Helen C. Putnam. American 
Academy of Medicine Press, Easton, Pa., 1913, pp. ix, 201. $1.00 post-paid. 

This book brings together three series of papers published during the years 1909- 
191 2 in the Child-Welfare Magazine and two addresses delivered before scientific 
societies. The subjects of the series are: Prevention of School Fatigue; Mothers' 
Clubs and Clean Schoolhouses; School Janitors and Health — and of the addresses: 



19 ij] Books and Literature 279 

Practical Asp)ect8 of Biologic Science in School Administration; The Problem of 
Janitor Service; and The Training of Janitors in Sanitary Care of School Premises. 

Dr. Putnam writes upon the care of children in the home and in the school with 
the authority of a practicing physician and upon the sanitary condition of school 
buildings from the point of view of a person who has made extensive personal inves- 
tigations. What she says on either subject is to be considered authoritative and is 
likely to prove widely helpful. There is more or less repetition, doubtless owing 
to the serial form in which much of the material was originally published. For- 
tunately, this will not lessen the usefulness of the book as an outline for class or 
dub study. The main contention of the writer, that a working knowledge of 
hygiene and sanitation should be demanded of school janitors, is well upheld and 
it is to be hoped that the publication of the book will help to impress parents and 
teachers with the menace to health due to ignorance on the part of those who are 
responsible for the daily care of school buildings. 

In her plea for better care of public buildings. Dr. Putnam writes: " It is certain 
that if in vocational or technical or continuation or trade schools were courses for 
janitors and their superintendents, intelligent interest and efficiency would be 
secured and public health improved. Every large city has several hundred janitors 
of schools, apartment houses, office buildings, theaters; as well as Pullman porters, 
train and street car conductors, hotel managers. We need to introduce educational 
and health standards in this important occupation. No good home maker has the 
dirty floors and atmosphere with which we shut up children and instructors." 

The Kitchen Fire and How to Run It. By Samuel Seward Wright. Published 
by the author, Scranton, Pa. 191 2. Pp. 97. $0.75. 

A manual designed for the housewife giving directions for the care of the stove and 
the saving of fuel, with special reference to the management of drafts. Special 
appliances for use with coal and gas stoves are described and pictured and the 
names of their manufacturers are given, but the author assures us that he has no 
financial interest in any of them. 



BOOKS RECEIVED. 

Chemistry of Food and Nutrition. By Henry C. Sherman, Ph.D. New York: 

Macmillan Company. 1912. $1.50. By mail of the Journal, $1.62. 
A New Book of Cookery. By Fannie Merritt Farmer. Boston: Little, Brown 

and Company. 1912. $1.60. By mail of the Journal, $1.75. 
Handbook of Home Economics. By Etta Procter Flagg. Boston: Little, 

Brown and Company. 1912. $0.75. By mail of the Journal, $0.81. 
The New Hostess of Today. By Linda Hull Lamed. New York: Charles 

Scribner's Sons. $1.50. By mail of the Journal, $1.62. 
Principles of Human Nutrition. By Whitman M. Jordan. New York: Mac- 
millan Company. 1912. $1.75 net. By mail of the Journal, $1.90. 
School and the Home. By Adolph A. Berle. New York: Moffat, Yard and 

Company. 
Training the Boy. By William A. McKeever. New York : Macmillan Company. 

1913. $1.50. By mail of the Journal, $1.62. 
Vocations for Girls. By Mary A. Laselle and Kathering Wiley. New York: 

Houghtor, MiCain Company. $0.85. By mail of the Journal, $0.92. 
Woman in the Making of America. By H. Addington Bruce. Boston: Little, 

Brown and Company. 1912. $150. By mail of the Journal, $1.62. 
Woman and Social Progress. By Scott Nearing. New York : Macmillan Com- 
pany. 1913. $1.50. By mail of the Journal, $1.62. 
Divorcing Lady Nicotine. By Henry Beech Needham. Chicago: Forbes and 

Company. $0.35. By mail of the Journal, $0.38. 
Women as World Builders. By Floyd Dell. Chicago: Forbes and Company. 

$0.75. By mail of the Journal, $0.81. 
The Man and the Woman. By Arthur L. Salmon. Chicago: Forbes and Com- 
pany. $0.75. By mail of the Journal, $0.81. 
Making the Farm Pay. By C. C. Bowsfield. Chicago: Forbes and Company. 

$1.00. By mail of the Journal, $1.08. 
The Table for Two. By Eldene Davis. Chicago : Forbes and Company. $1.00. 

By mail of the Journal, $1.08. 
Constructive Rural Sociology. By John M. Gillette. New York: Sturgis and 

Walton. $1.60. By mail of the Journal, $1.75. 
Annual Report of the State Board of Health of Maryland. For the year 

ending December 31, 1910. Baltimore, 1912. 
Report of Milk Inspector. For the year 1911-12. Health Department of the 

city of Boston. 191 2. 
City Smoke Ordinances and Smoke Abatement. By Samuel B. Flagg. U. S. 

Department of the Interior, Bureau of Mines. Bui. 49. 191 2. 
Second Annual Report, 1911-1912, of the Committee on School Lunches of 

the Home and School League. Philadelphia. 1913. 
Mutton and Its Value in the Diet. By C. F. Langworthy and Caroline L. 

Hunt. U. S. Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin 526. April 19, 1913. 
The Distribution of Incomes in the United States. By Frank Hatch 

Streightoff, Ph.D. New York: Columbia University, Longmans, Green and 

Company, Agents. 

280 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD. 

A mass meeting for homemakers was held in Boston on March 7, under the 
auspices of the Massachusetts Federation of Women's Clubs and of the New Eng- 
land Home Economics Association, the Twentieth Century 
New England Club acting as hostess. Mrs. Stannard, president of the New 
Home Economics England Home Economics Association presided, and intro- 
Association duced as the first speaker Mrs. Julian Heath of New York who 

gave a clear account of the history and aims of the Housewives' 
League. To give an idea of the wide interest the League has aroused, Mrs. Heath 
stated that on one day her mail may contain over six hundred letters representing 
ever>' part of the country, ever>- industry and every walk in life. It is so far organ- 
ized that though not yet two years old, it is already an economic factor in the com- 
munity. The tradesmen are ready to welcome an intelligent buyer,and the League 
stands for "The Fair Deal" on both sides. Mrs. Heath was ready to answer the 
many questions about details of the work in various cities. 

The next speaker was Miss Sarah Louise Arnold, of Simmons College, who con- 
sidered the subject of Housewives' Centres, saying that this is a much needed insti- 
tution and something sure to come in the future. "Society today is made up of 
widely different groups of very different needs and experience. In a small town or 
village the problem is simpler than in the cities. The library might be made useful 
as such a continuation school. On stated days books, e.^ibits of devices, etc., 
might be prepared, and an interpreter ready to assist all visitors. In every com- 
munity, its needs, natural leaders, suitable meeting places, etc. must be studied to 
get valuable results from such work. The community requires education first 
in order to establish the habit of mind and desire to make use of such a center. 
In Boston, the Louisa Alcott Club has long been such a center for a crowded 
neighborhood." 

The last speaker of the afternoon was Mr. George B. Purrington, manager of the 
Charles River Cooperative Society who gave a history of the Society and explained 
the practical working. Although but two years old, the value of the experiment is 
already demonstrated. 

A spirited discussion followed these papers in which all the speakers participated. 

A meeting of the Teaching Section of the New England Home Economics Associa- 
tion was held at the Brookline High School on March first. The speakers were 
Miss Flora E. Anderson, Newton Technical High School,whose subject was" Certain 
Aspects of the School Luncheon Problem;" Miss Charlotte M. Bragg, of Wellesley 
College, who spoke on "College Entrance Requirements in Home Economics;" 
Mrs. E. H. Hawes, Washington Allston School, Boston, who described a model 
house for home economics teaching and work actually undertaken in it. The 
homemaking class at this school is fortunate in an unusually practical course of 
study. 

An informal discussion followed. 

t8x 



282 The Journal oj Home Economics [June 

A committee of the New England Home Economics Association is arranging a 
Home Economics Exhibit, to be held at the new building of the Elizabeth Peabody 
House, Boston, early in May. It is hoped that this may be the first of a series of 
annual exhibits and conferences at which the housewife may gain help and inspira- 
tion for her work by seeing how others are meeting her problems. The plan is to 
get the cooperation of other organizations working on similar lines in order that 
work may not be duplicated. The following exhibits are expected. Foods; clothing; 
house decoration; market supplies; books for the homemaker; child welfare; 
textiles; electric equipment for the house; laundry appUances; kitchen equip- 
ment, etc. 

A series of conferences on various aspects of the work illustrated by the exhibits 
will be held at which free, informal discussion will be welcomed. 

In order to meet the expenses of the exhibit, it is planned to serve afternoon tea, 
and to sell home made cakes and candies. It is expected that the Home Economics 
Section of the Women's Clubs wiU take charge of this department. 

The annual meeting will be held at Warelands, Norfolk, Massachusetts, early in 
June. This will give apportunity for the study of a model milk farm, and of a 
delightful old time country' home, as well as give the members of the Association 
a charming outing. 

At the annual election of officers held April first the following were unanimously 

elected: President, Miss Emma S. Jacobs, 3509 nth Street; vice-president, Mrs. 

H. J. Patterson, College Park, Md.; recording secretary, Miss 

Washington ^^^^^ j Ridgway, Grafton St., Chevy Chase, Md.; treasurer, 

. Miss Marion L. PoUard 2801 i8th Street; corresponding secre- 

*" " . tary. Miss Ellen Marshall Rugg, 1813 Newton Street. 

At the open meeting the subject of Textiles was further devel- 
oped. The papers and discussions were most interesting and helpful. A motion 
was made to appropriate the sum of $5 for relief work among the flood sufferers. 
One of the members and her family have suffered to a great extent. Another 
motion was made to appoint a committee to make investigations, gather samples 
and report on the dress goods and fabrics sold in this city. This committee will 
make an effectual campaign within the year and put its data into available shape. 
All this will be done in an effort to bring about legislation in the interest of "pure" 
textiles as a companion to "pure" food. The motion was the outcome of the study 
of textiles during the past winter. 

An Exposition was held in San Francisco, May 22 to 24, exhibiting the work of 
boys and girls of San Francisco. The division in the exhibit included industry, 
arts and crafts, home economics, art collections, music, com- 
merce, animals and the garden. The plan of the Exposition 
■^ was to include anything that a San Francisco boy or girl can 

^ ' do or make. The exhibits were arranged according to the age 

of exhibitors under 13 to 16 years, 16 to 18 years, and under 20 years. The Director 
of the Home Economics Department was Mrs. Mildred N. Fen ton of the Mission 
Grammar School. 



1913] News from the Field 283 

The University of Texas gave a One-Week's School of Home Economics at the 

University from February 10 to 15. This is the first time any work in this line 

has been given by the University. The course was enthusi- 

, ,, astically received and well attended. The following lectures 

jrtQ or T fi p 

. were given: Municipal housekeeping; Civic sanitation; The 

, ^ house behind the man; What to wear and how to wear it; 

of Tf'Xfl.^ 

The blot on the brain — Who is to blame? The conservation of 

the child, by Dr. Carolyn Geisel; The modem household; The household and com- 
munity (State Legislation regarding family, women, children, health, municipal 
housekeeping, and public servace); Household, income and expenditures; Division 
of income expenditures for necessities. Factors determining per cent to be expended 
for food, shelter, and clothing; Division of income (continued), expenditures of 
choice. Factors determining per cent to be expended on education, travel, philan- 
thropy, securities through saving; Household budgets and accounts, by Dr. 
Benjamin R. Andrews. Art in the home (Color — A force in material expression) ; 
Art, industry' and education; Art in the home, Principles of color, harmony and 
their application to interior decoration and costume; Use and abuse of historic 
period in modem furnishings; Principles of color and form applied to dress; Meaning 
and function of arts and crafts, by Frank A. Parsons. Lectures and demonstra- 
tions: The principles of cookery; Milk and eggs; Fish, fowl, and flesh (Illustrated 
by charts and experiments); Vegetables and grains; Products of the flour barrel; 
All sorts and conditions of kitchens, by Miss Anna Barrows. Nutritive value of 
foods; The importance of the menu, by Miss Anna Richardson. Some problems 
of house building; Sanitary problems of the home; The house and how to plan 
it, by Prof. Mary E. Gearing. Food for the growing child; The problems of the 
lunch basket, by Miss Jessie Rich. Relation of the home to the state, by Gov- 
ernor Colquitt. Home and education, by Lieut. Governor Mayes. Relation of 
home to society, by Mrs. Percy V. Pennj^iacker. Our food supply; Insanitary 
conditions of production (An illustrated lecture), by Dr. Abbott. Ruskin's 
teachings on the home and home economics, by Dr. L. W. Payne, Jr. 

The president of the State Conference of Charities and Corrections called a 
conference for the purpose of preparing a constructive reform program to go before 

the legislature. This meeting was held January 28 and 29, and 
Texas Social was attended by about two hundred people representing twenty 
Welfare organizations. The following resolutions which were made have 

Conference. since been passed by the legislature and signed by the governor: 

Strengthening the juvenile court law by providing probation 
ofl&cers and enabling counties to appropriate funds for this purpose; establishing 
a state industrial school for delinquent girls; authorizing and empowering counties 
to establish where necessary county hospitals and dispensaries with visiting nurses; 
requiring the erection of sanitary school buildings; defining and punishing family 
desertion and non-support; giving married women the same control of their sepa- 
rate property as that exercised by men; restricting the hours of labor of and pro- 
viding seats for working women; the suspended sentence; and the indeterminate 
sentence with parole. 



284 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

The fifth annual meeting of the Homemakers' Conference was held in connec- 
tion with Farmers' Week at the New York State College of Agriculture at Cornell 
University, Ithaca, New York, February 1 1 to 15. The program, 
, which was an interesting one and well carried out was as follows: 
Introductory talk on foods, by Miss Clara Browning, Instructor 
in Home Economics, New York State College of Agriculture; 
The boys and girls, Miss Flora Rose, Professor of Home Economics, New York 
State College of Agriculture; The economy and preparation of left overs, Mrs. 
Ida S. Harrington, Assistant in Home Economics, New York State College of 
Agriculture; Septic tank for the home, Mr. Howard W. Riley, Professor of Farm 
Mechanics, New York State College of Agriculture; Demonstration bread making, 
by the Rural School pupils; Milk in the diet, Miss Rose; Care of milk in the home, 
Mr. Harold E. Ross, Assistant Professor of Dairy Industry, New York State 
College of Agriculture; The farm house, Mrs. Helen Binkerd Young, Assistant 
Professor of Home Economics, New York State College of Agriculture; Home 
Economics at Cornell, by Miss Rose and Miss Martha Van Rensselaer, Professor 
of Home Economics, New York State College of Agriculture; Carving a chicken, 
Miss Mary Yates, Lecturer, Toronto, Canada; Garden flowers: what they are 
doing, Mrs. Anna B. Comstock, Lecturer in Nature Study, New York State 
CoUege of Agriculture; Pictures for the home, Mr. W. C. Baker, Assistant Professor 
of Drawing, New York State CoUege of Agriculture; Labor saving in housekeeping, 
Miss Van Rensselaer; Helps for home study. Miss Caroline Webster, Library 
Organizer, Department of Education. Albany, N. Y., and Miss Mary P. Parsons, 
Department of Education, Albany, N. Y.; Care and preservation of eggs, Mr. 
Earl W. Benjamin, Instructor in Poultry Husbandry, New York State College of 
Agriculture; Bread making. Miss Rose; The housewife and the cost of living, Mrs. 
Julian Heath, National President Housewives' League, New York City; Dressing, 
trussing and carving a chicken, Mr. Benjamin; Appreciation of books. Miss Alice 
G. McCloskey, Associate of Rural Education, New York State College of Agri- 
culture; Home-made sweets with demonstration, Mrs. Harrington; Scientific Man- 
agement, Miss Van Rensselaer; The art of furnishing, Mrs. Young; Household 
accounts, Miss Fleming; The housekeeper and the cost of living, Miss Van Rensse- 
laer; The relation of appetite to digestion, by Miss Rose. 

The growing number of women who enter trade occupations in Amsterdam 
caused the municipality to establish a woman's labor exchange in 1909. In the three 
_. , years that it has been operating it has increased in importance 

^ , until now the director and her nine assistants, also women, can 

_j, , scarcely cope with its business. The bureau is divided into differ- 

, „ ,. , ent departments, such as shoemakers, servants, extra helpers, and 
in Holland. ., . .. ,', ',. 

various other occupations. Recently a department has been organ- 
ized for office personnel — stenographers, typewriters, clerks, etc. 

To give an idea of the extensiveness of the operations of this bureau and its 
growing popularity, 1192 girls found employment through its mediation in the 
month of January, 191 2, while 1755 were so placed in the same month this year. 
Last year a total of 18,231 women found employment through this bureau. No 
fee is charged for service rendered by the bureau in this connection, while advice 
and assistance to working women in general are freely given at all times. (From 
Daily Cons, and Trade Rpis., U. S., 16, 1913, no. 71, p. 1515.) 



1913] News from the Field 285 

Menominee, Michigan is to have, for the beginning of next year, a new build- 
ing for training in domestic science and art, manual training and physical culture. 
The plans, as adopted by the board of education, provide, for 
Menominee, the domestic science and art department, a sewing room, fitting 
Mich. room, kitchen, dining room, laundry and all necessary cup- 

boards, cabinets and pantries. The physical training depart- 
ment consists of a gymnasium, running track, dressing rooms, shower baths, 
rest-rooms and all conveniences usually found in this connection. 

The purpose of the new school is to provide more and better practical training 
for those who must begin life without advanced education. The boys are to be 
helped to become better wage earners, home providers and citizens, the girls to 
become better homemakers. housekeepers, home nurses and helpmates. The 
physical training department will form a nucleus about which to make the school 
a social center to counteract undesirable attractions, through contests and enter- 
tainments, literar>' and g>Tnnastic. 

In both domestic science and manual training emphasis will be placed on the 
two upper grammar grades and the first two high school years. Special classes 
will be offered for those pupils who are one or more years behind their grade. The 
records of attendance and falling out of school indicate the need of special training 
for these people for their life work. The falling off in attendance up to the middle 
of the sixth grade is not alarming, but as compared with the attendance of the 
sixth grade that of the seventh shows a shrinkage of one-fifth, that of the eighth 
two-fifths, and that of the beginning of first year high school a shrinkage of five- 
eighths. 

A special course has been organized in advance for those who expect to attend 
high school for only two years. The student may decide later to remain the four 
years and fill out his course with regular academic subjects for graduation. This 
course consists of a combination of domestic science and commercial work for the 
girls or manual training and commercial work for the boys. 

A college preparatory course is also offered in both manual training and domestic 
science and art in accordance with the requirements of the University of Michigan, 
and other universities of the north-west. — Manual Training Magazine. 

The report blanks provided in Adair County, Missouri, have spaces on one 

side for the grading in school subjects by teachers. On the other side they have 

n X TM I spaces devoted to "industrial work," where the parents grade 
Report Blanks T . . , , • , , • . , . f . , 

, „ their girls on sweeping, dusting, baking, sewing, washing dishes 

-jy. . and ironing. Boys are marked by their fathers on feeding stock, 

milking, currying horses, providing fuel, and feeding poultry. 

Blank spaces are left for other sorts of home work. In a note addressed to teachers 

and parents. Superintendent Sipple says: "Pupils get credit for the work they do 

at home. Home grades should be considered by the teacher in making the final 

grade and to determine promotion." — Journal of Education. 



FOURTH INTERNATIONAL CONGRESS ON SCHOOL 

HYGIENE. 

Congress to be held at Buffalo, New York, August 25-30, 1913. under the patron- 
age of the Honorable Woodrow Wilson, and the presidency of Dr. Charles W. 
Eliot of Harvard University. 

Secretary-General, Dr. Thomas A. Storey, College of the City of New York, 
New York City. 

PROGRAM 

General topics to be considered. — (I) The hygiene of school buildings, grounds 
material and up-keep; (II) The hygiene of school administration and schedule; 
(III) Medical, hygienic, and sanitary supervision in schools. 

Special sessions and discussions on the following problems. — (I) The relation 
between school hygiene and home conditions; (II) The relation of school hygiene 
to school progress; (III) The teaching of hygiene; (IV) Rural school hygiene; 
(V) School children as carriers of disease; (VI) Eye diseases among school children; 
(VII) Hygiene of the defective child; (VIII) The relation of athletics to health; 
(IX) The hygiene of play; (X) Vital statistics; (XI) The relation of spinal curva- 
ture and flat feet to the health of the child; (XII) Ventilation. 

Symposiums. — School feeding, arranged by the committee on school feeding of 
the American Home Economics Association; Oral hygiene, arranged by the National 
Mouth Hygiene Association; Sex hygiene, arranged by the American Federation 
of Sex Hygiene; Conservation of vision in school children, arranged by the Society 
for the Prevention of Blindness; Health supervision of university students, arranged 
by Mazyck P. Ravenel, M.D., Professor of Bacteriology, Director of State Hygienic 
Laboratory, Chairman Hygiene Conunittee, University of Wisconsin; School illu- 
mination, arranged by the Illuminating Engineering Society; Relation between 
physical education and school hygiene, arranged by the American Physical Educa- 
tion Association; Tuberculosis among school children, arranged bj' the Society for 
the Study and Prevention of Tuberculosis; Physical education and college hygiene, 
arranged by the Society of Directors of Physical Education in Colleges; The Binet- 
Simon test, arranged by Professor Terman, Stanford University; The mentally 
defective child, arranged by Henry H. Goddard, Vineland, N. J. 

Special papers will be read on: School clinics, School decoration, Drinking facili- 
ties, Rural districts. Fields for games. Rest rooms. Summer camps, Village schools, 
School nurses. School architecture, Prevention of epidemics. Lunch rooms, Libra- 
ries, Open air schools. 



286 



1913] Intertuitional Congress on School Hygiene 2S7 

Section on School Feeding, 
preliminary program. 

A. Conference on school feeding. 

In the conference it is proposed to discuss School Feeding in two general groups 
of papers: first, those dealing wnth the nutrition of children as an educational and 
a national interest; second, those dealing with the practical problems arising in 
administering school lunches in different places. 

/. Nutrition and malnutrition of school children. — (i) Historical summary and 
present status of the school feeding movement; (2) Medical inspection and the 
nutrition of school children; (3) Nutrition of anemic and tubercular children; (4) 
Malnutrition and mental defectives; (5) Special studies in the correlation of mal- 
nutrition and disease; (6) Nutrition of children and national conservation. 

//. System of school feeding. — The following topics will be considered in several 
short papers after which the meeting wiU be thrown open for round table discussion 
by representatives from the different countries: (i) School lunches in cities: How 
best administered and by whom? (2) Lunches in rural schools; (3) Lunches in 
high schools; (4) Relation of menus to standard dietaries; (5) Distribution of cost 
over administration, service and food; (6) Training of the school dietitian; (7) 
Educat onal and social possibilities of school feeding; (8) Economic principles 
underlying the movement. 

B. Plan of exhibit on school feeding. 

The exhibit wiU consist of charts and photographs illustrating the movement, 
together with a demonstration of material equipment, and so forth, as foUows: 

I. Charts showing: History and e.xtent of movement; Results of experiments on 
growth, general health and attendance; Relation of malnutrition to disease and 
physical and mental defects; Food needs at different ages; Food value and cost of 
school lunches compared with lunches bought by children elsewhere. 

//. Photographs from different countries showing: Children at meals; Kitchens 
and dining rooms; Fixed and movable equipment; Vans and vessels for transpor- 
tation; Utensils and servang dishes, particularly if specially designed. 

///. Material for demonstration: Record blanks; Tickets; Serving dishes, etc.; 
Menus, dietaries and recipes; Municipal and state regulations regarding adminis- 
tration, duration of meals, character of food used, etc.; Books and pamphlets on 
school feeding; Advertisements of books on school feeding. 

The exhibit will be open daily from August 25 to August 30. Demonstrators 
for the Section will be needed and cooperation is hereby solicited for this most 
important part of the work. 

Following are the names of some of the persons and organizations who are being 
invited to coof>erate in the conferences and exhibits on School Feeding as outlined: 

United States. — Ahce C. Boughton, Louise Stevens Bryant, Dr. William H. 
Bumham, Kate Carman. Elizabeth E. Farrell. Alice M. Hotchkin, CaroUneHunt, 
Dr. Woods Hutchinson, Isabel Hyams, Mabel Kittredge, Dr. C. F. Langworthy, 
Mary H. Moran, Mary C. Small, Dr. Mary Schwartz Rose, Emma Smedley, Dr. 
Ira S. Wile, Superintendents of Schools and Committees on School Lunches in 
the forty-one American cities having school lunches. 



288 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

England. — Dr. Ralph Crowley, Marion Cuff, Margaret McMillan, Donald 
Peppier, Phyllis D. Winder, British Institute of Social Service. 

Germany. — Dr. Gastpar, Anna von Gierke, Dr. Kaup, Helene Simone. 

France. — Dr. Courgey, Dr. Dufestel. 

Italy. — Alessandro Schiavi, Dr. C Tonzig. 

Switzerland. — Dr. Erisman. 

Austria. — Dr. Leo Burgerstein, G. Timeus. 

Scandinavia. — Alida Jackobson. 

The Committee will be most grateful for the names of any other persons or 
organizations who might be interested or persuaded to take part. 

THE NATIONAL CONSERVATION EXPOSITION 

The National Conservation Exposition which will be held in Knoxville, Tennessee, 
during September and October though national in scope, will have as its prime 
object the preservation of the natural resources of the southern states, through 
improvement in the methods of production and consumption so as to eliminate 
unnecessary' waste. The principal lines along which exhibits are to be made are 
forestry, scientific agriculture, the development and increased use of waterways for 
both power and navigation, the conservation of mineral wealth and the protection 
of human life in mines, the preservation of fish and game, and human efficiency, 
including child welfare, home economics, rural life improvement, and good roads. 
A National Advisory Board at Washington, composed of leading authorities upKin 
all these subjects, and headed by Gifford Pinchot, President of the National Con- 
servation Association, is directing the plans for all exhibits dealing with conserva- 
tion. Mrs. Mary Hinman Abel, of the American Home Economics Association, 
is the member of the Advisory Board who represents home economics. 

The exposition grounds have already been laid out and occupy over loo acres. 
Several of the buildings, including those to be devoted to forestry, liberal arts, and 
live stock are completed, an agricultural building with an auditorium is nearly com- 
pleted, and other buildings, including an AU-Southem States building, are in the 
architect's hands. 

The Kentucky board is to represent the exposition in that state and to assist in 
securing participation in the exposition by the state and by such public and private 
organizations and individuab as are interested in any form of conservation. Similar 
boards are being organized in the other southern states. Among other state chair- 
men are Dr. Edwin A. Alderman, President of the University of Virginia, U. S. 
Senator Ellison D. Smith, of South Carolina, Dr. William Bullock Clark, State Geolo- 
gist of Mar>dand, and John H, Wallace, Jr., Commissioner of Game and Fish of 
Alabama. 

Home economics is recognized as so important an element in greater human 
efliciency that the Exposition is devoting special place to it, and it is the plan to 
encourage the advancement of this subject by exhibits such as a model small dwell- 
ing properly furnished and cared for, labor saving devices in the home, demon- 
stration meals publicly prepared and served by the domestic science students of 
agricultural colleges and high schools, demonstrations of ways of selecting and 
cutting meat, demonstrations of proper methods in marketing, samples of methods 
of domestic bookkeeping, and lectures on domestic science and economics. 



1913] Cornell Meeting 289 

EIGHTH INTERNATIONAL DRY-FARMING CONGRESS 

AND INTERNATIONAL CONGRESS 

OF FARM WOMEN. 

The International Congress of Farm Women, which is the Rural Home Section 
of the International Dry-Farming Congress, will be a part of the program of 
the eighth international meeting of the latter association, which is to be held at 
Tulsa, Oklahoma, October 22 to November i, 18 13. 

The Dry-Farming Congress has conferences on agricultural education, farm 
management, agricultural forestry, scientific research, agricultural colleges and 
experiment stations, and similar topics; but the one which is of greatest interest 
to home economics workers is the International Congress of Farm Women. To 
this Section farmers are urged by the Congress to bring their wives, women farm 
owners are asked to participate, and agricultural colleges and other schools are 
asked to send their home economics workers, their field directors, and their exten- 
sion workers in order that the character, extent and results of the home economics 
movement may be brought directly to the attention of rural housekeepers. Rural 
home nursing, sanitation, the preparation of food, housekeeping methods and eflB- 
ciency, and other home problems will be discussed. 

ANNUAL MEETING OF THE AMERICAN HOME ECO- 
NOMICS ASSOCIATION— JUNE 27-JULY 4, CORNELL 
UNIVERSITY. ITHACA. NEW YORK. 

The Annual Meeting, as before announced, will be held at Cornell 
University, Ithaca, New York, June 27 to July 4. The program of 
the Association has been planned so that there will be no sense of 
hurry, and there will be only two sessions a day. It is not yet 
possible to give the program in full, but some of the topics to be 
discussed are: The Social Side of Home Economics; Vocations and 
Culture; The Girl in Industry; Preparing the Girl for Industrial 
Vocations; The Basic Work in Science; The Basic Work in Art; An 
Experiment in Teaching Economics; Some Results Found in Study of 
the Factors of Bread Making; Problems in the Preparation and Use of 
Foods; The Relation of House Planning to Home Economics; The 
Problems of Rural Life; and "The Best Way Yet," a discussion of 
housekeeping, equipment and methods. The School for Rural Lead- 
ership will be in session at the same time and offers many interesting 
programs. 

The Tnmk Line Association has given a rate of one fare and three- 
fifths. This includes New York State except west of Buffalo; Pennsyl- 
vania except west of Warren, Oil City, Franklin, and Pittsburgh; 
West Virginia, District of Columbia, Northern Virginia, Maryland, 



290 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

Delaware, and New Jersey. The same rates have been granted for 
New England. Please read carefully the following directions: 

(i) Tickets may be purchased at any time from June 24-29, inclu- 
sive. 

(2) Buy regular ticket to Ithaca and ask for certificate. Do not 
accept a receipt. Certificates are not obtainable at all stations, but 
any agent can tell you wher^ they may be purchased. 

(3) On arrival at Ithaca, deposit your ticket and 25 cents at once 
with Miss M. B. Lake. The special agent will come on June 30 to 
validate certificates. 

(4) The reduction will not be given imless 100 certificates are 
presented. Everyone is therefore urged to get the certificate, even 
where the saving is small, as it helps others. If less than 100 certifi- 
cates are turned in, the 25 cent fees will, of course, be returned. 

The cost of living at Cornell will be moderate. The charge for a 
room will be 75 cents a day. The cafeteria of the Home Economics 
building will be run for the benefit of the Association, the cost of meals 
being from 75 cents to $1.00 a day. 

All who wish to engage rooms are asked to do so as early as possible, 
for the convenience of those in charge of Sage College. For reservation 
address Department of Home Economics, Cornell University, Ithaca, 
New York, telling when you expect to arrive and whether you wish a 
room alone. 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Home, Institution, School 

EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR 

Mrs. Mary H. Abel Marguerite B. Lake 

EDITORIAL BOARD 

Benj. R. Andrews C. F. Langworthy 

Isabel Ely Lord 

COLLABOllATORS 
The Officers and Members of the CouncU 

Vol. V OCTOBER, 1913 No. 4 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Sixth Annual Meeting of the Amerciafi Home Economic- Association Frontispiece 

Home economics from a man's point of view, Thomas Nixon Carver 291 

Temperature and humidity in certain Xew York hospitals, Alice L. Lake . . . 301 

Caroline Rest. Francina Freese 304 

The Xeed of the Immigrant, Mabel H. Kittredge 307 

President's Address, Sarah Louise Arnold 317 

Editorials 326 

Bibliography of Home Economics Literature 330 

Books and Literature 335 

Books received 344 

News from the field 34S 

Proceedings of the sixth annual meeting of the American Home Economics 

Association 350 

Proceedings of the Institution Economics Section 378 

American Home Economics Association at Richmond 381 

Second International Congress for the Teaching of Housohold Economy, 

Ghent, Belgium, Louise Stanley 382 

Fourth International Congress on School Hygiene 385 



The Journal of Home Economics is published five times during the year, February, April 
June, October, December, by the American Home Economics Association. 

$2.00 A YEAR. FOREIGN $2.25. SINGLE COPIES 50 CENTS. 

HOW TO REMIT. Remittances should be sent by Draft on New York, Express Order, or 
Postal Money Order, payable to the American Home Economics Association. Currency, unless 
mailed in a registered letter, is at the sender's risk. 

CHANGE IN ADDRESS. Notice of change in address should be sent Two Weeks before 
the date of issue on which the change is to take effect. The change cannot be made unless the 
subscriber's Old Address is clearly indicated in addition to the New Address. 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 
Roland Park Branch, Baltimore, Md. 

Entered as second class matter at the Baltimore Post Office. 



TH E 

Journal ^/Home Economics 

Vol. V. OCTOBER, 1913 No. 4 

HOME ECONOMICS FROM A MAN'S POINT OF VIEW.^ 

Thoaias Nixon Carver. 

Director of Rural Organization Service, U. S. Department of Agriculture. 

I sometimes think that if I could write a book — that is, a good 
book, I should write it on the subject of the child as an article of 
consumption. I have not in mind any such cynical idea as the pro- 
posal of Dean Swift, to serve up Irish babies on English breakfast 
tables as a means of restoring the prosperity of Ireland. But I have 
in mind, first, a rather nice distinction in economic theory, and sec- 
ond, an incident which came under my observation about two years 
ago. Economic theorists make the distinction between producers' 
goods and consumers' goods and they base this distinction upon the 
question whether the goods under consideration satisfy wants directly 
or indirectly. All goods which satisfy wants directly are called con- 
sumers' goods, but all goods which satisfy them indirectly, by ena- 
bling us to get the things we really want, are producers' goods. The 
child as an article of consumption, therefore, merely means that the 
child is a source of direct rather than indirect satisfaction. The 
incident referred to was as follows: A small boy, about three years 
of age, was playing in the street with some other children of about 
his own age and apparently having a glorious time. He was out in 
the open air and getting exercise of various desirable kinds. A very 
proper and well-dressed maid came out and said " Come, Johnny, 
you must now come and take your walk," and so Johnny went walk- 

1 Presented at the Sixth Annual Meeting of the American Home Economics 
Association, Ithaca, 1913. 

291 



292 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

ing demurely down the sidewalk with this very proper maid, taking 
his morning exercise. That sight, I think, must have been very 
pleasing to the parents of the child. They undoubtedly got a great 
deal of direct satisfaction from the extreme propriety of the occasion. 
The properly dressed maid with the properly dressed child, walking 
properly down the street served as a sort of stamp, or trade-mark, 
or badge of respectability. The child seemed therefore to be an 
article of consumption. 

I have no objection to children being considered consumers' goods; 
there is really something to be said in favor of that idea. But there 
is such a thing as over-consumption — as gluttonous and ostentatious 
consumption. It is when consumption ministers to greed or vanity 
that it becomes objectionable. 

If the child is really considered as an article of consumption, in 
the proper sense, it will help to solve some rather important domes- 
tic problems. You have doubtless heard of the efficiency engineer 
who saw a father amusing his child by tossing it with his own arms. 
It occurred to the engineer that there was a considerable waste of 
energy in his crude and primitive manner, and that he could invent 
a simple machine by which a father could toss the child tvace as 
high and many times as fast wath less expenditure of energy. The 
difficulty with this scientific gentleman was that he did not know what 
economy is for. He did not realize that we do not ordinarily try 
to economize in consumption, we try rather to lengthen out the 
processes of consumption in order to get more enjoyment. Processes 
of production which we do not generally enjoy" are the ones which we 
try, or generally try, to shorten up. If tossing the baby is simply 
an act of production, it would be wise economy to invent a large 
milk shake machine to do the tossing, but if it is an act of consump- 
tion there is no more logic in trying to simplify it than there would 
be in a machine to macerate our food for us and save the work of 
our jaws and teeth. 

This efficiency engineer is not perhaps so extreme a case as we 
sometimes think. I have read books which make seriously the sug- 
gestion that it is a wasteful process to bring up children in separate 
households. Why, it is argued, waste energy this way when they 
could be brought up much more economically in large institutions 
and thus leave the parents with more energy to spend on things in 
which they are more interested. But obviously, if children are ob- 
jects of consumption, the process of bringing them up is a source of 



1913] ^ Mail's Point of View 293 

direct enjoyment. That is the last thing in which we want to econo- 
mize time and energy. The only reason why we should want to 
economize energy is in order to have more energy left for some other 
purpose which we consider more important. What would the father 
do with the energy which he saved by a baby-tossing machine? He 
might use it in tossing a baseball; but here again, it looks like a very 
wasteful process to throw a baseball by human muscles when a ma- 
chine can be invented which will throw it much more accurately and 
swiftly. The answer of course is that if people can get enjoyment 
out of the work of playing baseball they do not want to economize 
in that work and turn it over to machines. What would the parents 
do with their surplus energy if the children were turned over to a 
public kindergarten? They might, of course, have more time to 
spend on politics. Here the same question is raised again. Why 
not turn politics over to a few experts and leave the rest of us more 
time to do the real work of life? If we like to play politics there 
would be no economy in simplifying the process. If we dislike poli- 
tics, it would be good economy to turn the government over to a 
few special experts. Or the suggestion may be made that if we could 
get rid of the work of caring for children we could have more time 
for pleasure or culture. But again, why not turn pleasure and culture 
over to a few experts and leave the rest of us more time for honest 
work? Let us not take anything for granted if we are going into 
this question at all. If we get more pleasure from the care of our 
households and our families than from these other things, it would 
be very much more sensible to economize energy in politics, or pleas- 
ure, or cultiire, and leave us opportunity to put all our time on our 
households. But, of course, if on the other hand, the care of families 
and households is irksome and we would rather be spending our 
time in pleasure and culture and other outside interests, then we 
need an economist to show us how to save energy for these purposes 
which we consider more important. 

I would like to suggest, as a hypothesis, which you need not accept 
at once, that the dominant ambition of every man and woman ought 
to be the ambition to build a family. I use the word "build" advis- 
edly. I do not mean spawning. There are too many people spawn- 
ing today. Instead of encouraging spawning by pensioning mother- 
hood, some parents ought to be fined. But family building is quite 
a different thing. Incidentally, let me suggest that the question of 
the endowment of motherhood has been worked out long ago. It is 



294 ^^^ Journal of Home Economics [October 

all summed up in the single formula, "with all my worldly goods 
I thee endow." That is the only scientific way ever discovered for 
the endowment of motherhood, that is, where it really works; where 
the words really mean what they seem to mean. If the ambition 
to build a family were the dominant ambition, the man who pro- 
nounces these words would really mean what he said. Thereafter he 
is a mere tentacle thrown out to draw in subsistence for the building 
of the family. His business from that day forth is the endowment 
of motherhood and nothing else. He may go into a profession or 
into business or other gainful occupation, but these occupations are 
the subordinate ones. They are the means and not the end. These 
gainful occupations are the means of foraging, the ways by which 
he, the tentacle, brings in sustenance for the imit, which is the family. 

This hypothesis has a great many interesting possibilities. If every 
man who pronounces those words "with all my worldly goods I thee 
endow," takes them seriously and makes that his chief business, and 
if the woman who allows those words to be pronounced regards her- 
self from that day forth as consecrated to motherhood and nothing 
else, it would change a great deal of our social and political think- 
ing and many of our social problems would solve themselves auto- 
matically. 

In the first place no one would then talk of economizing energy 
by turning over the care of children or the household to a few experts. 
Rather than do that we should turn politics, culture and pleasure, 
and even business, over to a few experts in order to economize energy. 
Again, it would change our ideas of social classes. Now by a social 
class I mean a group of people whose interests in some way conflict 
with those of other groups. A physiological difference does not make 
a social class. It is only a difference of interests that makes a social 
class. If men and women have large conflicting interests then men 
and women are of different classes. Since no class can be trusted 
to legislate in the interests of another class whose interests conflict 
with its own, the conclusion is fairly obvious as to the extension of 
the ballot. But if they have no conflicting interests, then they are 
not separate classes, and the reason disappears. Now if the domi- 
nant ambition of both men and women were the building of families, 
there would be no conflict of interests. Here instead of forming two 
classes, men and women would form but one. If, however, such a 
productive ideal or ambition as this is lost sight of, and the chief 
purpose is pleasure, or luxurious consumption or the gratification of 



1913] -4 Man's Point of View 295 

vanity in any of its forms, then men and women have conflicting 
interests. With expensive tastes and a limited income, what the 
man consumes the woman must do without. And what the woman 
consumes the man must do without. There is a direct conflict of 
interests. And where you have such a conflict as that, you are likely 
to have injustice, because one class will not safeguard the interests 
of another when their interests conflict. 

Or suppose the dominant interest is culture. Now there is real 
culture and there is what ordinarily goes under the name of culture. 
The latter is conmionly identified with expensive tastes. People who 
possess this culture generally are merely people with expensive tastes 
and limited incomes. Among such people there is undoubtedly a con- 
flict of interest between men and women. The man knows that if he 
marries he must give up some forms of expenditure, and the result is 
he frequently does not marry or he postpones it. In the second 
place, if he does marry, the conflict of interests is so acute as to result 
in a somewhat higher divorce rate among such people than among 
others. In the third place, with this psychological background there 
is a perfect realization that every new mouth that enters the family 
has to be fed and reduces the income which can be devoted to the 
gratification of the tastes of the parents. One result is no new mouths 
come into the world to be fed, or a very few at most. And the con- 
flict of interests goes further than this, the rank sense of injustice 
which women feel when their interests as consumers are not safe- 
guarded by their rival consumers — men, accounts for a good deal of 
the feminine unrest of the present day. 

Thus far I have simply tried to show that the natural and logical 
result of the dominance of the ambition for family building would 
be to put men and women into one social class rather than two, 
whereas, when the dominant ambition is one of graceful consumption, 
of culture or achievement in other lines than family building, the 
conflict of interests places them in two social classes instead of one, 
and all of these results follow logically as a matter of course. I 
have not yet undertaken to show that one group of results is bet- 
ter than another or that family building ought to be the dominant 
ambition. 

Of course real culture does not consist in expensive tastes and does 
not increase the cost of li\ang. What is culture except the develop- 
ment within one's self of resources which will satisfy and therefore 
do not require outside and expensive means of gratification? Is there 



296 The Journal oj Home Economics [October 

any better ideal of culture than that degree of seK-development which 
makes one independent of outside conditions in his enjoyment of 
happiness? An old school of philosophy is summed up in the advice 
"Live according to nature." Living according to nature meant some- 
thing rather definite to those old philosophers. Obser\dng that na- 
ture is bounteous in the supply of some things and niggardly in the 
supply of other things, this advice would seem to mean that we 
should gratify a taste for those things whereof nature was bounteous 
rather than for those things whereof nature was niggardly. The 
great elementary wants are capable of being pretty fully satisfied 
without any great drain upon the resources of nature. But things 
which minister to vanity are, and must from the very nature of the 
case be, scarce. Anything which is not scarce but abundant, can 
never gratify vanity. If it is abundant, everybody can have it, which 
does not distinguish one at all. But if it is scarce and very few can 
have it, then it distinguishes its possessor and ministers to his vanity. 
Much of our modern ideas of culture are merely methods of gratify- 
ing vanity by the cultivation of the habit of looking for the things 
which are scarce rather than for things which are abundant. A 
sounder idea of culture, which would cultivate a taste for things 
which are abundant rather than for things which are scarce, would 
enable a cultured person to live more economically than an uncul- 
tured person. 

If we had that kind of culture you would not find conflict between 
men and women, grouping them in separate classes, or one sex insist- 
ing that it is being classified, set ofif to itself and discriminated against. 
If you hold strictly to the ideal of family building as the dominant 
ambition, you cannot talk in such language as this and keep your 
faces straight. But when you forget that ideal and begin to think 
of wealth as means of consimiption, and of gratification as the chief 
business of life, then there is a conflict of interest between men and 
women, and that conflict of interest produces a good many of our 
SK)cial problems. 

In a talk which I gave very recently I got over into the field of 
scriptural exegesis and suggested that the old story of the talents 
had a real meaning because talents in the original sense were money. 
But that story is utterly absurd if you think of money or wealth as 
a means of gratification. If your idea of wealth means gratification, 
how absurd it would be to take away the one little means of gratifi- 
cation from one man and give it over to another man who had ten. 



1913] -^ Man's Point of View 297 

There is no meaning to it at all if you put it that way. But suppose 
you reverse your whole idea of wealth, erase that idea entirely from 
your mind, and think of wealth as a means of production, a tool for 
the building of a community. Then consider that one man was given 
a tool which he did not use. He hid it away and it was wasted. 
Another man used his tools so productively that they doubled; he 
added to the capital of the community. Obviously it is a waste of 
tools to leave them in the hands of people who do not use them, 
they must be taken out of their hands and put into the hands of 
people who do use them. Thus interpreted the story has a pretty 
clear and definite economic meaning, and that happens to be the 
meaning of the New Testament. There never was in the New Testa- 
ment a condemnation of wealth or OTMiership, but the selfish con- 
sumption of wealth is always and everywhere condemned. 

One of the results of the prosperity which has come to us in modern 
times is the forgetting of that elementary principle. Our religion 
fitted us well for the conditions of poverty in which it found us; it 
gave us the discipline which was necessary to sustain us under hard- 
ship and poverty, the courage and the fortitude to withstand the 
temptations of poverty. The thing that we now have to work out 
is a religion, or an interpretation of the religion that we have, which 
will give us the strength to withstand the temptation of prosperity. 
The old Indian's remark that the Indian never was born who could 
withstand prosperity might almost be extended to include the white 
man. The facts that we have mentioned demonstrate the failure of 
our rehgion to train us for prosperity if with prosperity comes this 
ideal of selfish consumption, and the consequent conflict between 
man and woman who are in competition as consiuners. If they have 
forgotten the real ambition of hfe and are pursuing these false ambi- 
tions, the failure of religious people to build families will result in 
the failure of the religion itself. 

If as the result of a sound and wholesome religion poor people 
grow out of their poverty, it is because they have the discipline which 
is necessary to bring them out. Dr. Crothers tells me that out in 
western Canada it is not uncommon to see a man on Sunday after- 
noon put on his Salvation Army uniform and get into his motor car 
and motor down to the Salvation Army meeting. They are only a 
little in advance of the rest of the world in Canada. You cannot 
keep people poor who have the right kind of religion, but the test 
of their religion will come when they have become rich and prosper- 



298 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

ous. The question then is, will their religion protect them against 
the temptations of their prosperity? If so, it may have a permanent 
existence; if not, the religion will die out with the people who possess 
it. If the members of the Salvation Army, when they become pros- 
perous, cease to build famihes, why of course their tjpe of reUgion 
will disappear Tvith these people, following the example of every other 
progressive iy^& of religion. 

Suppose you could imagine trees having morals and religion. In 
a thicket of young pines the struggle for existence is very intense. 
It is said by foresters that if you cut a half inch oS of a young pine 
the chances are that it wiU never catch up, because it will get a little 
less light than its neighbors, and the next year it will be more than 
a half inch behind. It will continue losing ground until eventually 
the others will crowd it out. Now suppose you can imagine these 
trees having religion and that some of them have a religion which 
rather depresses and keeps them down, or gives them a false idea 
which restricts growth in some way, whereas other trees have a reli- 
gion which stimulates growth. Which of those two religions would 
prevail eventually? Why, the one that belonged to the trees which 
themselves survived. The one which belonged to the trees which 
were tending towards elimination would be eliminated mth the trees 
that possessed it. I do not see but that we are all under the same 
ultimate law. The people who have the rehgion, or the morals, or 
whatever you choose to call it, which preserves the ambition of the 
family builder, and keeps that in the foreground, and makes all others 
subsidiary to it, will, I predict, eventually own the earth. Every 
religion which fails to do that will be eliminated. 

Now I do not know that this proves anything definitely. It ap- 
pears that the people who get the discipline, moral training, or reli- 
gion, or whatever it may be which causes them to build families, will 
survive longer, multiply faster, and grow more powerful than others 
and will eventually own the earth, at least in a larger degree than 
other people. Does that prove anything? I think we can say this 
much at least; whether it is desirable or not it will be; that is what 
will happen; the people who possess a discipline which fits them for 
growth and adds to their strength and prosperity will grow strong 
and prosperous and others will not. That is a mere statement of 
fact. Does that statement of fact justify it? It might be that we 
would regret that the particular trees in this thicket sur^dved and 
the others disappeared. We may like the others better. Still we 



1913] --i Man's Paint of View 299 

would have to admit the fact that the trees that had sur\-ived did 
sur\-ive, and the others did not. There is a certain cosmic force 
about a principle of that kind. Whether we like it or not something 
of that kind is likely to happen among human beings and ci\n']iza- 
tions. We may admire the reckless spendthrift or the selfish con- 
sumer; we may imagine that if we had created a universe we would 
have made it very much better; we would have made it so that the 
likable spendthrift woiild have flourished, and the unlikable puritan 
would disappear. However, we did not happen to be present, and 
we did not make those suggestions to the Creator when the universe 
was created- It is this kind of a world, and what wiU be, wiU be. 

Xow just at this point I would like to suggest an interpretation 
of the philosophical dictum that ''That is good which is capable of 
becoming universal.'' This, it seems to me, has been misinterpreted. 
We sometimes interpret it as meaning that that is good which we 
would like to see made universal. I do not think it means quite that. 
That is good which is capable of becoming universal whether we 
like it or not; that is good which is capable of fordng itself on the 
world and making itself universal in spite of our likes and dislikes. 
I know that this wiU be attacked on the groimd that nature does not 
know anything about right and wrong, and good or evil; science is 
imable to discern a moral order, etc. Suppose we face about and 
say that whatever the order of the universe is, that is the moral order. 
That whatever natiu^e or the universe tends to produce inevitably 
as the normal working of cosmic economic law is good whether we 
like it or not. If the universe is in conflict with our idea of what is 
good and nice, instead of saying: So much the worse for the universe, 
I think it would be more modest to say: So much the worse for our 
ideas. Xow apply that to the thicket. Instead of saying: The laws 
of forest growth are all wrong; there is nothing moral about them. 
Let us not assume that we know how forests ought to grow. Let 
us take a more modest \-iew and say that whatever the forest laws 
are we must conform to them. And likewise with the human forest, 
whatever the laws of growth are for human beings we must accept 
them as right. Whatever the order of this kind of a universe Ls, it 
is the di\-ine order; whatever we discover in the laws or the uniform- 
ities of this imiverse are merely the imiformities in this div-ine will. 
If we have such an idea as this, I think we will be prepared to accept 
at least the conclusion that whatever tends to succeed in such a 
universe as this is that which should succeed. That is right and 

LCL::Li.wLL SCiEiNCE 



300 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

good which tends to become universal. After all, I suppose a religion 
or a scheme of morality is a kind of a means of defense just as teeth 
and claws, hoofs and horns. That group which has the best system 
of morality, a system which makes it most efficient in growing, in 
adjusting itself and holding its own against the hostile forces of the 
universe, will prevail; while that group which has a system of moral- 
ity which does not fit it to survive in the universe does not have a 
good system. Our Ukes and dislikes must be brought into conformity 
with these observed uniformities which we call laws. 

Now what about the people who have the family building ambi- 
tion, and what about these people who have this other idea of pleas- 
ure which seems to interfere with that ambition, which class is likely 
to survive and prosper? Suppose we do as they used to do in the 
old spelling school, "choose" sides. We wiU get the two sides as 
nearly even as we can at the start. You start your community on 
the present ideals and I start mine on the family building ideal. Your 
community pursues this idea of pleasure, which means the develop- 
ment of expensive tastes which interfere with family building, and 
produces social classes among men and women. I succeed in getting 
my community to follow the other ambition, where ever>' man and 
woman regards it as his or her largest ambition to build a successful 
family and let pleasure and all these other things become subsidiary 
to that. And suppose, further, that I could succeed in holding my 
community for a good many generations steadily to that ideal, and 
that you succeeded in holding your community for an equal number 
of generations steadily to your ideal. Which of our communities, 
at the end of a thousand years or more, would, in all probability, 
have wiped the other off the face of the earth? I think mine would. 
What will be, will be. If I am right then the fact that my community 
would be in existence and yours not, would be the final proof, it 
seems to me, of the superiority of this ideal over yours. 

That brings us back to the question, what is the important thing? 
What do we want to economize in? Do we want to economize in 
these things that are essential to family building, turn them over 
to experts and to institutions in order that we may pursue culture 
or politics, or any of these other things? Or wouldn't it really be 
less suicidal even to turn politics or culture over to a few experts so 
that we could have more time to look after our families? 



TEMPERATURE AND HUMIDITY IN CERTAIN NEW 
YORK HOSPITALS. 

Alice L. Lake. 

Department of Nursing and Health, Teachers College, Columbia University. 

In spite of the general uncertainty which prevails in regard to many 
problems of ventilation, it is generally agreed that the maintenance 
of proper air conditions in respect to temperature and humidity is 
of prime importance. Careful determinations of the actual condi- 
tions in regard to temperature and humidity of hospitals, schools and 
factories equipped vdih various systems of ventilation, have, however, 
been very rare. At the suggestion of Prof. C. E. A. Winslow, and 
imder his general direction, an attempt has been made by the writer 
to determine the conditions existing in the principal New York hos- 
pitals so far as was possible in the short time available. 

Six hospitals designated, respectively. A, B, C, D, E, and F, were 
chosen for study and eight visits were made to them, some at night, 
during the period between November 14, 1912, and January 24, 1913. 
In hospitals A, C, and D, all the observations were made between 
4 and 6 p.m. In hospital B some were made at that time and some 
between 11 p.m. and 2 a.m. In hospitals E and F the observations 
were made between 5 and 7 p.m. and 2 and 5 p.m. respectively. 
Temperature observations were made in the adults' ward, in the 
children's ward, and in the operating room, eight to seventeen ob- 
servations being made on each \asit. In the study of the relative 
humidity of the air 75 individual records were obtained of the per- 
centage of saturation. Five sets of observations were made by means 
of the Quinn psychrometer and three sets by means of the standard 
U. S. Weather Bureau sling psychrometer. The heating and venti- 
lating systems varied in the hospitals selected. The tables which 
summarize the observations show in each case the systems which 
were followed in the different hospitals. 

The table which follows shows the number of times certain different 
temperatures were observed in the sLx hospitals, the temperature 
range under consideration being from 50° to 88°. 

301 



302 



The Journal of Home Economics 



[October 



Distribution of temperature in six hospitals. 



■ 






NUMBER OS TIMES FOLLOWING 








TEMPERATURES WERE 




venthating 

SYSTEM. 


HEATING SYSTEM. 


observed: 




% 


o 


NO 






o 


oo 

00 








o 




NO 


>o 


i 




00 


Adult's ward: 




















Hospital A 


Windows 


Direct and indirect 






5 


6 








Hospital B 


Exhaust 


Direct 


2 




2 


5 


I 


I 




Hospital C 


Exhaust 


Direct 


I 




I 


3 


I 






Hospital D 


Plenum 


Direct and indirect 






I 


3 


I 






Hospital E 


Exhaust 


Direct 










3 


2 




Hospital F 


Plenum 


Direct 






4 


lO 








Children's ward: 




















Hospital A 


Windows 


Direct and indirect 






2 










Hospital B 


Exhaust 


Direct 




I 




I 




I 




Hospital C 


Exhaust 


Direct 








I 








Hospital D 


Plenum 


Direct and indirect 










2 






Hospital E 


Exhaust 


Direct 










I 






Hospital F 


Plenum 


Direct 








I 


I 






Operating room: 




















Hospital A 


Windows 


Direct and indirect 








2 


I 




Hospital B 


Exhaust 


Direct 








I 








Hospital C 


Exhaust 


Direct 










I 






Hospital D 


Plenum 


Direct and indirect 










I 


I 




Hospital E 


Exhaust 


Direct 












2 


2 


Hospital F 


Plenum 


Direct 








I 









The table below summarizes the observations on the humidity of 
the air in the six hospitals and shows the number of times different 
percentages of saturation were observed, the range being from 15 to 
60 per cent. 

Relative humidities in six hospitals. 





VENTILATING 
SYSTEM. 


HEATING SYSTEM. 


NUMBER OF TIMES PERCENTAGES 
OF SATURATION GIVEN BELOW 

WERE observed: 


HOSPITAL. 


0. 

M 
1 





1 

2 
3 
4 
2 
2 
2 


•* 
? 

to 

2 

I 
I 

7 
8 
8 


to 

4 
2 


4 
I 

3 


I 

I 

I 


1 


Hospital A 

Hospital B 

Hospital C 

Hospital D 

Hospital E 

Hospital F 


Windows 

Exhaust 

Exhaust 

Plenum 

Exhaust 

Plenum 


Direct and indirect 

Direct 

Direct 

Direct and indirect 

Direct 

Direct 


2 

I 
I 


4 
4 

2 

I 


I 

I 



1913] Temperature and Humidity in New York Hospitals 303 

From the above statistics it appears that 47 out of 75 tests showed 
a temperature of 60° to 69°, while only 32, or less than half were be- 
tween 65° and 69°; 4 had temperatures below 60°, of which 3 were 
taken at night and i was a roof ward; of the 24 above 70°, 10 were 
in operating rooms, 5 in children's wards, $ in Hospital E, i in a closed 
room, I in an accident ward, and 2 in adult wards. Hospitals A and 
F were very uniform in temperature; B, C, and D (with the excep- 
tions noted above) were also under control; E was overheated through- 
out (B with the same heating and ventilating systems was under 
control). The children's wards, with the exception of 2 in A, and i 
in B, were warmer than the other wards, varying from 67° to 76°. 
The operating rooms in use were from 71° to 88°, while those not in 
use (2) were down to the average. 

It seems from these records that the control of temperature in a 
hospital is more a question of management than of the system em- 
ployed. A uniform temperature was maintained in Hospital A with 
window ventilation alone and in Hospital F with a pleniun system. 
Hospital C with air supplied by windows and exhausted by fans and 
Hospital D with a plenum system showed wide variations. Hospital 
E seems to be consistently overheated and although there are only 
10 records, the impression of others who had visited this hospital 
corroborates the view that this condition is a general one. Temper- 
atures between 79° and 80° such as are maintained in this hospital 
are certainly imdesirable. The high temperatures in the children's 
wards and operating rooms of almost all of the hospitals are note- 
worthy. There is, of course, good reason for warm operating rooms 
but it seems questionable whether temperatures between 70° and 80" 
should be maintained in children's wards. 

The night temperatures were taken in but one hospital, B. The 
children's ward here showed 57° with a day record of 76°. For the 
sake of those children who persist in sleeping uncovered, if for no 
other reason, such variations are undesirable. 

The necessity for careful placing and regulating of thermostats is a 
point which should be kept in mind. One ward wdth hot radiators 
registered 76°. An operating room with a temperature of 88° reg- 
istered 98° on the thermostat placed against a wall back of which were 
the steam pipes of the sterilizer in the adjoining room. 

For humidity the maximum recorded was 54 per cent relative 
humidity and the minimum 16 per cent, both in A. On another day 
the same wards registered 44 per cent and 27 per cent respectively. 



204 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

Operating rooms showed a very low humidity, corresponding to their 
high temperature, but one, and that not in use, registering over 24 
per cent. Of the 12 operating room records, 5 were from 25 to 30 
per cent, 6 were from 30 to 34 per cent, i was 40 per cent. Of the 

75 total records taken, 67 were between 20 and 45 per cent. 

As practically all of the hospitals rely to some extent on windows 
and transoms for fresh air and the outside humidity was from 38 to 

76 per cent, there was necessarily a wide range inside. Is this an 
advantage to the sick or is it a disadvantage? Is it for the best good 
of patients to be subjected to such heat and dryness in operating 
rooms as is evidenced above? Or should steps be taken to install 
humidifying rooms in the ventilating systems, and to use plenum as 
well as exhaust fans for operating rooms at least, in order to control 
the himiidity as well as the temperature? Only artificial humidifica- 
tion can solve this problem. Whether air supply is brought in through 
windows or through ducts the warming of the air to the temperature 
of the room has the same drying effect. 

CAROLINE REST. 
Francina Freese, R.N. 

Caroline Rest, a home and school for mothers, maintained by the 
New York Association for Improving the Condition of the Poor, is 
located twenty miles from New York City in one of the most beautiful 
parts of the famed Westchester Hills. The grounds are spacious, 
and the building, opened in 1909, is well adapted to the work for 
which Caroline Rest was planned. The work began in 1907 in a 
small cottage which still stands on the grounds, and the new building 
was erected as soon as the experimental stage was over. It was 
built and endowed by Mr. George H. F. Schrader, now of Fal- 
mouth, England, as a memorial to his mother, Caroline Schrader, 
and bears her name. 

Caroline Rest is under the management of the Fresh Air Depart- 
ment of the New York Association for Improving the Condition of 
the Poor, and its cases are chosen from appUcants to their ReUef 
Department, the Superintendent of Relief ha\'ing sole control of the 
selections. The length of the stay is three weeks. 

In specifying the aim of Caroline Rest, Mr. Schrader said, "The 
object is the restoration to health and strength of needy mothers 



1 9 13] Caroline Rest 305 

who have recently given birth to babies and who, or whose babies, 
seem likely to be thus restored by means of fresh air, nourishing 
food, and care." Consequently the work has been planned espe- 
cially for mothers, but all kinds of cases are received. Children 
convalescing from acute illnesses are received alone, overworked young 
women and post-operative cases are welcomed, and we have even had 
one grandmother with her grandchild whose card bore the words "In 
need of instruction." The mothers may bring all the children they 
have and the husbands are inv'ited to visit the Rest on Sunday and 
to take dinner with their wives. 

Children over five are put in charge of nursemaids, sleep in a large 
well ventilated dormitory, and spend every pleasant moment out of 
doors. Children between two and five years of age are also in charge 
of a nursemaid. The mothers are required to assist the maid when 
food is served and at the bathing hour. Children under two are 
left absolutely in the mother's charge except at her meal times, and 
the class or lecture hour when the nurses take charge of them. 

The " two-to-fivers" sleep in iron cribs placed beside the mother's 
bed. The infants are pro\ided with basket beds and they too sleep 
in the mothers' dormitory. 

The dormitories, all opening onto a large balcony, have five or six 
beds each. As all clothing worn at the Rest is pro\dded there and 
the clothing worn to the Rest is locked away, the mothers need little 
room for their belongings other than the one drawer of the "built- 
in" dresser provided, where are kept soap, pins, toothbrush, etc. They 
must make their own beds and keep this one drawer in order. 

The infants must be bathed the first thing after breakfast. Then 
comes the class in modified milk for all mothers whose infants 
are bottle fed. Immediately after this, nourishment in the form of 
milk or hot gruel is served for the mothers and while they are as- 
sembled for this the superintendent gives a short talk on one of the 
following subjects: infant feeding; advantages of breast feeding; 
proper food for the child after weaning; summer care of sick babies; 
cleanliness; fresh air; sunshine; food and drink, exercise and rest; 
common accidents of childhood; dangers of the "pacifier," good 
and bad nipples; and, a few contagious diseases and how to recognize 
them. 

Lessons in sewing and cooking come in the afternoon, four classes 
in each week. For this work the mothers are divided into groups 
and the instruction is largely personal. If the garment made in the 



3o6 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

sewing class is completed during the visit, the mother may have it, 
the child wearing it home. 

The cooking work consists of instruction in the following: manner 
of purchasing foods and care of the same; care of cooked foods; some 
idea of a well balanced diet; variety in daily diet; hot and cold 
weather dishes; need of fruit; use of dried fruits and their prepa- 
ration; mUk, its value and ways of introducing it into the diet; and 
making of typical dishes to illustrate nutritive foods at low cost. 

The work in sewing covers: the use of paper patterns; method 
of putting a garment together; hemming; adjustment of sleeves; 
finishing the bottom and neck of a garment; and button-holes and 
the sensing on of buttons. 

Two evenings each week some Httle entertainment is furnished for 
the mothers, it may be dancing in the reception room, or music, or 
games, or the mothers may pro\dde their own entertainment. 
They love to sing and a few of them play the piano. The infants 
are weighed weekly; the other children and the women at the begin- 
ning and at the end of the visit. 

It is still a matter of debate whether instruction of these mothers 
is productive of the best results when given in the home or when 
given in a school of this sort. 

The success of school instruction depends absolutely upon the way 
the "follow-up work" is done. If the women are led to believe that 
interest ceases when they are put aboard the train for home, and 
nothing is done for them until they report to the same agency for 
reHef before the advent of the next baby, they will not profit much 
by their instruction in the school. They need help so that they 
may apply the principles taught in the school to their everyday Uves; 
they wall find points that have not been made clear to them and 
will want to ask questions. Without careful "follow-up work" the 
educational value of the work done at Caroline Rest is practically 
lost. 

With such "follow-up work" carefully and conscientiously done, 
such schools as this cannot help being productive of great good. The 
stay in the country, the surroundings, and the care they receive 
restore the health, and without the responsibility of caring for the 
children every moment of the day and night, the mothers have more 
time to absorb what they are taught and to appreciate what is done 
for them. 



THE NEED OF THE IMMIGRANT.^ 

Mabel Hyde Kjttredge. 
Association of Housekeeping Centers, New York City. 

The success of our effort toward solving the need of the immigrant 
depends entirely upon our knowledge of the men and women with 
whom we have to deal. We must realize that the education of these 
foreigners must keep pace with the larger ideas of living that the scien- 
tists and the social reformer are constantly working out. The well- 
meaning altruistic men and women of this country have been too con- 
tent to decide what is best for the foreigner who comes to our shores, 
and then having decided and having worked out their knowledge 
into laws, wonder that the result is disappointment. Sitting around 
large mahogany desks, in skyscraper office buUdings, many a com- 
mittee has met to discuss the housing problem. In a recent report 
was given the result of such a committee meeting as follows: "To what 
extent," was asked, "are the tenants responsible for bad housing?" 
And the answer was, "They are not responsible at all, the man who 
owns the property is the responsible person." 

Let us imagine making the owner responsible and putting the ten- 
ants one side as rent payers only, merely the recipients of such house 
improvements as the awakened conscience of the owner and law may 
create. Is the result satisfactory? The New York Tenement house 
department has worked for years for these better laws. From the 
committee room the fight has gone to Albany. "Our immigrants 
must have better homes," has been the splendid, passionate appeal 
of these men and women for years, and at last fight after fight has 
been won; fights for open plumbing, running water in each apartment, 
decent sinks, more space, 400 cubic feet of air to each person, all these 
measures have been adopted at Albany, and the committees meeting 
around the mahogany tables have rejoiced that at last the Italian, 
the Russian, the Pole, are to reahze in some measure comfort and 
health. Have we considered the fact that these dazed people have 
no knowledge of how to use the comforts we are giving them? 

' Presented at the Sixth Annual Meeting of the American Home Economics Asso- 
ciation, Ithaca, 19 13. 

307 



3o8 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

Only the other day I heard a visiting housekeeper of the Civic 
League for Immigrants tell how confused a Polish Jewess felt as she 
stood before one of these sanitary sinks; finally she took out the 
strainer and threw it away. "Why did you do that?" asked the visitor 
from the Civic League for Lnmigrants. "Because," answered Mrs. 
Milewsky, " the potato peeUngs wouldn't go down." Why should Mrs. 
Milewsky know what to do with modern plumbing? She was a 
peasant, and in her land the peasants throw dish water and potato 
peeUngs out of the front door. Such common implements as dust 
pans, such a common duty as how to sweep in a New York tenement, 
are new to our immigrants. They have been used to one-story cot- 
tages and stone floors. When they have cleaned house they have 
simply opened the door and swept out the dirt. I believe sometimes 
these people must long just to see once how it ought to be done when 
one lives on the sixth floor instead of in a cottage; how it ought to be 
done to please the housekeeper, the tenement house inspector, and 
the street cleaning department. They hate to be scolded by this 
army of people who seem to have their welfare at heart, but they have 
never seen just how the garbage can, the ash can, the refuse bag, are 
used. Telling? That is not enough to make them know. We have 
to have models put before us before we see clearly. Christianity 
itself had to give the world a model of a man; all the laws in the Bible 
could not make us know how to be perfect. An artist copies, copies, 
copies before he begins original work; a musician is filled with the 
good music that others have created before he thinks of writing one 
line of his own. Why do not we realize this same truth in the home- 
making, housing problem? Why should we think, for example, that 
the Ruthenians, filled with such superstitions as that a pregnant 
mother must not bathe, that if the top of a child's head is washed 
before the second birthday he will be bewitched, why should we think 
that such foreigners as these will appreciate and put to good use our 
bath tubs? We have to do more than put a bath tub in such a 
home. We have to make these people see the benefit of bathing, 
and the result of dirt. 

Recently I visited Ellis Island. There was the Italian woman in 
her bright-colored shawl, yellow and pink handerchief on her head, 
white stockings and short skirts. By now that dress is changed. A 
coat has taken the place of the shawl, the hair is up, the full short 
skirt has been exchanged for a tight one. Why? Because in her 
Sunday paper that Italian woman can see pictures of how she ought 



19 13] The Need of the Immigrant 309 

to dress. A ride in the elevated, or the subway, and the immigrant 
man, be he ever so simple, can know what the American men wear, 
from imderwear to the latest collar. These same people want a home 
to copy as well as garters and neckties. 

I should like to begin this educational work on Ellis Island. I 
should like to have at least two model homes there; one a simply 
furnished tenement flat, the other the small one-family house. It 
would be something for these people to do while waiting, to study 
these homes, getting first vivid impressions and right ideas of the 
housing problem that is waiting for them. One million a year land 
in our countrj^; sLx hundred and fifty thousand come through the 
port of New York; three hundred thousand stay in New York and 
go from Ellis Island to New York tenements. How dazed they must 
feel as they put their bundles down in a New York flat, with its blue 
walls, its small and probably dirty \\'indows, and its tiny little rooms. 
How they must wonder what ought to be done with it, and how the 
living arrangements can be worked out. The Italian home across 
the hall will be the first pattern. 

A home I know well is a fair sample : a four room flat, rent nineteen 
dollars, nine in family. It is furnished with cheap elaborateness, 
ideas gathered from Fourteenth Street stores because no other ideas 
were at hand. The chandelier is draped with tissue paper, the shelves 
are hung with ruffles and covered mth paper napkins; over the doors 
are ruffles; around the bath tub the stiff white ruffle is hung. The 
beds of brass, with a picture of the Madonna inserted in the back, 
are covered with cheap lace and blue counterpanes, and on the wall 
of this house I counted over fifty picture post cards pinned into the 
plaster, and very dusty. In this, as in the home of every ambitious 
foreigner, is the plush parlor set. This family of nine has a boarder 
to help pay the rent. He is a night worker, and in the day time can 
always be seen asleep in one of the beds. All five children, after 
school, help the mother at flower making. They receive eight cents 
a gross for the flowers, and the tiny red leaves and yellow stamens are 
everywhere. There are windows enough, but they are tight shut. 
There is a bath tub, but the clothes wringer and last winter's sleds 
are always kept in it. This is not the home of a very poor family: 
the father earns twelve dollars a week, two girls are in a factory, and 
the flower making brings in a certain income. The trouble is they 
haven't been shown how a tenant may be responsible with the owner 
of the building to make this flat a sanitary, orderly place in which 



3IO The Journal of Home Economics [October 

to live. And so the home is over furnished and unhealthy, the 
children are growing up with wrong ideals, and the newly arrived im- 
migrant across the hall has a bad model to copy. 

Besides the Ellis Island model homes, I should like another such 
home in every neighborhood, and in this sample house instruction 
should be given every day and every evening. There are a few such 
models in New York, in the Association of Practical Housekeeping 
Centers. Here the American stove can be taken apart and studied, 
and those who have never used anything except wood are taught how 
to buy and use coal. Hygiene, sanitation, food values, are here 
studied in a natural way. Dinners are given, the foreign girls them- 
selves making out the menus, doing the marketing (always with a 
teacher) and cooking; and in one lesson learning more about plumb- 
ing, dish washing, garbage cans, etc., than could be told to them with 
all the printed matter in the world. 

Domestic scientists work out wonderful things in college laborator- 
ies, but it seems sometimes as if they were traveling one road and the 
immigrant woman the other, and that these two roads never meet. 
It is so easy to become absorbed in science and to fee) that we have 
arrived when we discover that every child needs at least 1600 calories 
a day, and that if well-selected this nourishment can be bought for 
about twenty-one cents per person. It is so easy, on the other hand, 
to become confused, discouraged and nervous when one comes here 
"green," with no knowledge of English, and with philanthropists, 
inspectors and city officials constantly calling and only telling this 
poor dazed woman what is expected of her. If one has never seen 
how a thing ought to be done the telling means so little. 

In the Fourth International Congress on School Hygiene held in 
Buffalo this August, every subject for the good of the people finds a 
place and is talked about. But so much of this knowledge is never 
understood by the people for whom it is intended; the health commit- 
tees, the housing committees, the committees that have to do with 
oral hygiene, and school hygiene, and sex hygiene, and conservation 
of vision, of all these things they are ignorant. They have no stand- 
ard to copy, and they misuse the advantages when they are put 
within their reach. 

It seems as though we hand out our improvements to the immi- 
grant, but we do not, so to speak, make him one of the committee. 
We do not even take the trouble to meet him and know him and 



1913] The Need of the Immigrant 311 

understand how to obtain his cooperation. We cannot give him what 
he is not ready to receive. 

I have been interested lately in the work of the Bureau of Safety, 
Relief, Sanitation and Welfare of the United States Steel Corpora- 
tion. They spent last year $5,450,000 in improving the condition of 
the workmen and on safety devices. "But we saved," said the sec- 
retary of the Sanitation Committee to me, "7000 lives;" and when I 
asked him why he did this, he answered, "Because it is good busi- 
ness." I suppose there is no welfare work which is more intelligently 
done than this. They have so clearly grasped the realization that 
only as the immigrant cooperates can any appreciable good be ac- 
compHshed. The one thing this Steel Corporation wants to do is to 
save their workmen's lives. 

They first undertook to make perfectly safe their great plant em- 
plo>Tng thousands of men. Every dangerous wheel was covered, 
safeguards were everywhere, safety precepts were printed in seven 
languages, such precepts as these: 

Remember it is better to cause delay than an accident 

Let every employee make himself a committee of one to prevent some one acci- 
dent 

Safety — ^Think before you act 

Do not work with unsafe tools 

Safety committees may overlook something — See for yourself that all is safe 

Notice Danger signs 

Careful men are usually efficient — careless men are not 

Do not fool with electricity — it is dangerous 

Look out for overhead loads 

Look out for signs 

Every sign means danger 

Stop, look, listen 

and so on with at least thirty more precepts. And yet men were 
hurt, accidents occurred, valuable workmen were lost and families 
were left without support. I heard a mining capitalist say once that 
after all in this Hne had been done, he stopped his welfare work, and 
at once his men began to disregard warnings and accidents became 
frequent again. 

But the Welfare Bureau of the Steel Corporation realized it must 
go on and find out the root of the trouble. It must go on until the 
immigrant workman himself would help the Bureau in protecting his 
own life. They studied the mind of the strong, fearless foreigner, 



312 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

and discovered that it was considered the manly thing to jump on 
freight cars while in motion, that it was a sign of fear to wait for the 
car to stop. It was the ethics of these men to be careless of overhead 
loads and safety devices. Every man who was half a man was not 
going to be afraid of getting hurt. This spirit was too strong, in the 
men for any Bureau to talk down, the wives must be made to help. 
Moving pictures were therefore introduced, showing vividly accidents 
occurring from carelessness. The women saw in these moving pic- 
tures the machinery and its dangers, they saw the dangers of elec- 
tricity and the horrors that came from disregarding the warnings of 
the company. "We wanted one thing from these pictures," the sec- 
retary explained, "we wanted to make the women see so that they 
would warn their husbands each morning as they left home. The wife 
of a man has a power that we haven't." With all the precautions 
taken by this great corporation, hundreds were injured every year. 

Miss Ida Tarbell, in a recent letter on this subject says: "Studying 
these accidents, the man in charge concluded that the cause lay out- 
side of the shop. It lay in the fact that the men had not had proper 
food and comfort at home. They started out on their day's work 
unfit to protect themselves." Back, you see, to the immigrant's 
home. And so model homes are being established everywhere by the 
Welfare Department of the Steel Corporation, and the instruction of 
the women is a part of the welfare work. Not because these steel 
men are philanthropists, but because it is good business to save the 
life of the workman who has learned his trade; it is good business to 
keep him healthy, and all the power and all the money of the Steel 
Corporation cannot do this without the help of the women. 

How much better these women would work, what a dignity it 
would give their labor, if they could only realize that no business in 
this world can succeed \^ithout their cooperation. Home duties are 
not mere duties in the background any longer. Each one is a means 
to an end; every move is of importance, the way the dishes are washed, 
the beds made, the dinner cooked, may win or lose the game. 

In a recent report of the National Housing Association it was a 
cause for congratulation that "At the first Conference the vast major- 
ity of the delegates were health officers and social workers whose duty 
had forced them to see the awful results of bad housing; at the second 
Conference, newcomers were largely representatives of business cor- 
porations, manufacturers, architects, builders. The vital importance 
of good housing has begun to impress those whose interest is excited 



1913] The Need of the Immigrant 313 

by practical proposals." Surely these practical people will soon real- 
ize that there is a vital importance in still further increasing this rep)- 
resentative gathering. It must include those who live in the houses. 
These foreign people know, after they have been here a while, the 
harm done by bad housing conditions. We cannot work out the 
housing problem without first getting help from the men and women 
who know by experience. They are more interested in the law that 
requires a sleeping room to be no smaller than 6 by 10 than the 
architect or health officer can possibly be. They have seen girls go 
wTong because of the lack of privacy in these small rooms. The 
immigrant wants just what we want: a decent home for his family, 
a healthy home and purity for his girls, and if we will only take the 
trouble to know him better, then take the trouble to show him, his 
wife and his daughters what ought to be, they will all help us to get 
it. We need the foreigner to build our subways and our skyscrapers, 
but we need the foreigner's wife and children to help us in working 
out the science of the home. They care enough, but do not know 
enough, and the fact that they do not know enough is our fault. 

Of course the real need for the immigrant is education, and we all 
know that education is most successful when given to children. A 
most interesting address was given recently on the subject of educa- 
tion by one who showed in every word that he looked far into the 
future, and in saying what I do now about education I shall more or 
less quote from this speaker. 

Education must give general efficiency, and if we can get that 
efficiency we have succeeded in educating the child; but surely if, 
after eight years of teaching, we have an inefficient child, if we have a 
negative rather than a positive personality, we have failed in what we 
have imdertaken to do. If, when a boy leaves school, he is not able 
to go into business and after a few years, is not able to support at 
least himself and three others, we have failed to give that boy in 
school the elements of education that he needs in order to Uve his 
life. For if a man is not able to support himself, a wife, and at least 
two children, there is certainly a lack somewhere. 

Our children in the public schools should be taught to read the 
newspapers intelligently, and how many of them can? In order to 
read the newspapers they must know something about the poUtics of 
other countries, they must know intelligently the politics of this country, 
they must understand references to historical events, and they must 
know about laws and what it means to keep and break a law. If we 



314 The Journal of Home Economics [Octobe^ 

are going to pretend to educate children we must educate them in 
health and that means cheerfulness. If a boy and a girl are to be 
made eflScient to meet life they must be made healthy, and we cannot 
make them healthy except by education in the things that make for 
health. 

The School Lunch Committee of New York City, of which I am 
the chairman, next year will serve luncheons in seventeen public 
schools. We shall be feeding daily probably five or six thousand chil- 
dren. This is good as far as it goes, but this is not education, and this 
work has no lasting effect unless the child's mind is trained in the sub- 
ject of food, food values, cooking of food and cleanliness, at the time 
he is being fed. It is all very well to work out on paper the menus which 
will give each child the needed amount of protein, fat and carbohy- 
drate, but unless we are changing at the same time the living condi- 
tions of that child, the effect of that one meal will be over in a few 
hours and will be hardly worth the trouble it took to cook it. I be- 
lieve that this educational work can go on at the same time that the 
luncheons are served. For example, the luncheons can be prepared 
by the school children, the details of preparation given by the domes- 
tic science teacher; the menu of every lunch given in every school 
should be on the black board of each school; the food values and the 
price of each dish given and explained to the children. As it is now, 
a child is given pea soup. It learns to hke this kind of soup. It is 
not taught the food value of peas, and how these can can be substi- 
tuted for meat when the price of meat is impossible. A girl is not 
even told how pea soup is made so that she can go home and explain 
to her mother that she had a good soup at school and wants it at home. 
At the present time when we ask that the girls in our pubHc schools help 
in the preparation of the food so that the educational advantage can 
be theirs, we are told that time cannot be spared from lessons. In 
other words, it is more important for a girl to learn her geography 
lesson and lose her health than it is to learn how to cook and how to 
change the living conditions of herself and her family. 

It seems that we constantly forget the one point that we are try- 
ing to make our children generally efficient citizens, and that health 
makes for general efficiency more than anything else, that home- 
making makes for health, and that good cooking with careful prepara- 
tion of food and ideas of order mean good homemaking. If our 
children are to have the right ideas of life they must be educated 
in our public schools to use their hands more, they must have some 



1913] The Need of tJie Immigrant 315 

respect for manual labor. You know the story of a man who was out 
of a job and, apparently, sincere in his desire to work. He went to 
a friend and said he was willing to do anything. He was asked if he 
could use a pick and shovel, and he replied that he could not. He was 
asked if he could use a hammer and saw, and he replied in a surprised 
tone, "No, I am an educated man, I have been through college." 
That is exactly the idea that is constantly being made apparent. 
A girl came to me only the other day who had been accustomed 
to using her hands but who had gotten the false idea of education, 
and with no prospect of other work, had thrown up her present job 
and had come to me to say that she was made for better things than 
working with her hands. 

Our public schools must teach the children of the immigrant that 
there is nothing in the world finer than to be able to use one's hands 
efficiently. Scrubbing, cleaning, dish washing, carpentry work, all 
these things should have first place in the school curriculum, and 
they shoiild also have the first place of respect in the mind of each 
child. Experience shows clearly that this is possible. For twelve 
years, in New York, I have been teaching housework to the children 
of immigrants. Some of those girls have married principals of our 
pubUc schools, many have married well-to-do business men, but not 
one has lost her respect for housework. 

It has interested me to read Professor Scudder's account of his idea 
of efficiency, and for what he gave diplomas in his school. For example, 
he said he had one girl who could not learn algebra, she did not have 
a mathematical mind; but she could cook a dinner for ten people 
for one dollar and get into that dinner all the required nourishment. 
He gave credit for her knowledge of cooking in place of her lack of 
algebra. Another girl in his school was a very poor speller. If she 
were relying on marks in spelling she could not get her diploma, but 
he believed, as he believes in all cases, that she might be able to prove 
her efficiency in other ways. She did. This poor speller could go 
out in the woods after a rain storm and make a fire with wet wood and 
cook a dinner perfectly. She also, from being a delicate, moody girl, 
had made herself into a healthy, cheerful girl, by her study of dietetics 
and by teaching herself to sleep in the open air winter and summer. 
Surely Professor Scudder was right when he said that this girl, who 
by her own effort had grown healthy, was more deserving of a di- 
ploma than if she had learned to spell and continued to be a weak 
negative indi\idual. 



3i6 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

Anyone who has worked very much with the little children of the 
street knows how few are affirmative characters and how many are 
negative. Their whole habit of mind is negative. There is so little 
in our school training that teaches boys and girls what to do when 
they are up against something hard. In school they seem part of 
the big machine; at home they have very little chance to develop 
their individuality. The homes are small, the families are large, and 
one gets discouraged in trying to do more than just get along; and to 
just get along means doing what the crowd wants to do. When these 
boys and girls go into factories, again each becomes part of a big 
machine; one girl makes the collar of a coat, another girl makes the 
button holes, another girl takes out the bastings, no girl ever makes 
the whole coat or feels the least interest whether at the end the coat 
is satisfactory or not. 

It seems as if the business world must always be this impersonal 
kind of a machine, but surely we can put something more vital into 
our pubUc schools. There we have the youth, there we have the en- 
thusiasm of childhood, there we have all the wonderful energy that 
loves to clean and scrub and work hard. It is just as natural for 
every h'ttle girl to want to keep house as it is for every little boy to 
want to use a hammer and saw, and when we put these little girls 
down at the school desk and teach them that education means not 
using that love of homemaking but "learning the book through," 
we lose after a few years this wonderful force, and when, after a time 
the homemaking must come, it is taken up as a drudgery and not a 
pleasure. It seems, sometimes, as though the natural things immi- 
grant children want to do are really the right things. They want to 
play, and in their play they want to use their imagination. If we 
would only make this possible, it seems as if we should do more than 
we do now with some of our lesson books. The boys want to make 
things, the girls want to cook, the little girls want to play at being 
mother, the little boys want to use the strength of their hands and the 
strength of their muscles. All these things, if directed, make for 
efficiency. Could we not get some of this vital force of childhood into 
our public schools? 



PRESIDENT'S ADDRESS.^ 

Sarah Louise Arnold. 

You have given me great pleasure this week, the opportunity of 
taking hold of hands wnth you, of learning about the work which you 
have been doing, of looking into your faces and sharing your enthu- 
siasm. We all are feeUng that it is good for us to be here. 

Tonight I shall speak particularly to the younger members of our 
Association — to you who are entering upon your life work. You are 
discovering and weighing the results of our earlier efforts. You, we 
trust, will succeed where we have failed, will build upon our founda- 
tions, will reach the Promised Land which we have dimly seen, afar 
off. Our hope is in you. 

And first, as my text, let me recite to you the familiar lines from 
Emerson : 

Daughters of Time, the hj^ocritic days, 

Muffled and dumb, like barefoot dervishes, 

And marching single in an endless file, 

Bear diadems and fagots in their hands. 

To each they ofTer gifts after his will, 

Bread, kingdoms, stars, and skies that hold them all. 

Education is intended to teach us, among other things, to choose 
between the thing which is worth while and that other thing which is 
better worth while. These are sad hours when 

I, in my pleached garden, saw the pomp. 
Forgot my morning wishes, hastily 
Seized a few herbs and apples; and the Day 
Turned and departed, silent. I, too late, 
Under her solemn fillet saw the scorn. 
We sit down at set of sun 
To count the things which we have done. 
And, counting, find — 

the cheapness, the littleness of our choice. Any backward glance will 
show us the meagerness of our earlier understanding. The great 

1 Delivered at the Sixth Annual Meeting of the American Home Economics 
Association, Ithaca, 1913. 

317 



3i8 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

tragedy of human existence is the bartering of the birthright for the 
mess of pottage. Yet this tragedy is constantly being enacted, unless 
we see far and wide, back into the past, forward into the future. We 
desire and pray to be so blest with \dsion and understanding that we 
may choose the precious gifts borne by the marching Days, and 
secure in our own lives the goods which we wish to bestow upon others. 

I hold in my hand the Syllabus of Home Economics that has been 
prepared for us. I regard it with great respect and appreciation. It 
recites our definition of home economics. The book is filled, as you 
know, with very caiefully assorted and classified subjects of study, 
each arranged under its proper head. Our definition outlines the sub- 
jects of instruction which belong to us who are concerned vnth. the 
food, clothing and shelter of the human race. 

I want to say to you that we are not only concerned in the subjects 
of instruction, but we are also concerned in the application of that which 
we teach in our American homes. We are immensely concerned, there- 
fore, to teach the right thing and in the best possible way. To that end 
we should know more than we teach, in order that everything that we 
teach should be seen in its perfect perspective. You and I must 
know and understand the life in the home. 

A few days ago I talked with one of the ablest physicians that 
the country knows. He has been particularly known of recent years 
because he has devised the following up of the patients after they 
leave the hospital, to see that they really find their way to recovery. 
Now we all know that the hospital was designed to make people well, 
but we also know that the physician is supposed to discharge his 
patient when he crosses the threshold of the hospital and goes home. 
This physician was a philosopher; he had always been sorry that 
his chosen profession of medicine seemed to find no place for the 
appUcation of philosophy, no chance to discern what life was meaning to 
the patient, and what all his experiences were for. All at once it came 
to him that as a physician he could not succeed except as he under- 
stood the daily Ufe of his patient. So he went home with the poor 
man who had been in the hospital for weeks, perhaps having some 
capital operation, weak and frail, and hopeless, sick and miserable, 
even when he left the hospital. He went home to the family that had 
been without income for months; he saw the children there, clinging 
to the skirts of the mother, as hopeless and ddB'nhearted as the sick 
father who was coming home. And then, instlad of simply saying 
to the man, "Take so many eggs every day, and drink so much milk, 



1913] President's Address 319 

and go to some place where you will have absolutely fresh air and rest 
for a few weeks, " he found somebody who concerned himself in the 
interests of the family. He learned how really to make that man 
well; he discovered that it was not all a question of diet or medicine, 
not a question of diagnosis, not a question of mere physical recovery. 
He had to learn much before he could rightly diagnose his patient's 
case or prescribe the possible remedy. 

Now, home economics, like medicine, exists not alone by itself, but 
it is related to something else. We teach home economics, not simply 
because the subject is interesting and good in itself, but because it is 
vitally related to human welfare. You and I will amount to very little 
in our discussion of home economics and in our study of the cause, if 
we sit at our library table to prosecute our inquiries and make our 
tabulations, and separate our thought from the daily experience of 
the home with all its tremendous needs. 

So the question that I really want to put before us this evening is 
this : What is the human appeal in home economics? Why are we here 
at all? From what experience have we come? How is the thing which 
we get here going to help somebody else? What sorts of persons are 
we to help, and how are we to help them? What human need shall 
we find crying for relief? What must we know besides our subject if 
we are really to be of use doing our work? What does home eco- 
nomics mean to you? Why are you studying it, and how do you 
expect the world to be even a least little bit better because you have 
undertaken that work? 

I want to suggest to you, first, that your imderstanding of home 
economics is dependent, and absolutely dependent, upon your home 
experience. We represent here, perhaps, typical groups of American 
homes, those which provide the finest opportunity to the children who 
are trained in them. For they doubtless represent homes in which 
the children have shared in the family responsibilities, they have not 
been left to the care of servants, neither have they known extreme 
want. These homes have been homes of intelligence, of truth, of 
loyalty, where the working hand in hand with mother and father, sister 
and brother has developed the virtues which belong to our American 
people. 

Now, out of that home has come an indispensable teaching, which is 
the bed rock of all our education. Only as we have knowm this teach- 
ing shall we be able to,interpret rightly the lives of others, coming 
from widely difi"ering homes. If yb\i^%C^ through your own cxperi- 




320 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

ence all that goes to make up the abundant life of the home, you will 
be able to teach it to others. Without that experience you will go 
halting, stumbling, and will fail to reach your goal. I knew a young 
teacher who said that Tennyson wrote nonsense when he wrote the 
song of the brook, "for every fool knows that a brook cannot sing." 
Upon inquiry I learned that she lived on a Dakota prairie, that she 
had never sat beside a brown mountain brook as it leaped over the 
rocks and sang as it fell. The brook was not in her life — therefore, she 
could not hear it sing in the poem. 

A friend has told me of her early experience in her home on a Maine 
farm, how once a year the mother laid aside her heavy cares, let the 
men eat a cold dinner, and took all the children to the hills where they 
might together share the joys of a day out of doors. That same mother, 
early one June morning, waked her little girl, so that she might go with 
her at sunrise out under the pines on the hillside to hear the thrushes 
sing. "I shall never forget that morning," said the child. "We lis- 
tened there under the pines to the song of the thrushes and it seemed 
to me that the very doors of heaven were opened for me by my 
mother." 

No such gift could come into the hfe of the child except as the mother 
opened the door. The mother with the seeing e3^e and the under- 
standing heart shared with her children her vision of things which were 
true and beautiful. You and I came out of homes like that. Our 
understanding of human life and experience is largely built upon the 
patterns that were set for us in the home. 

When, therefore, you and I discuss home economics, we are con- 
stantly measuring life by our experience. We are thinking of things in 
the terms of that experience, and we expect the children with whom we 
deal to come out of a similar experience. But let us stop to think. 

Turn to the tenement house and see what it has to bestow upon its 
child. I once visited a school in a large city, not in the poorest district, 
and noted with interest a Httle pale-faced girl who was keenly intent 
upon her work. "Come, Mary," said the teacher, "let us see your 
slate." The child came slowly to the desk, a white-faced little girl, 
with tangled pigtails tied with cotton rags, her dress hanging in 
strings, her shoes loosely tied and ill-fitting at best. Around her 
neck, on a twisted, torn cotton string hung a key. As I looked at the 
slate, I asked about the key. " It is the key to my house," said Mary. 
"I wear it all the time. My mother, she goes out washing. She 
isn't there when I wake up in the morning, and there is no one in the 



1913] President's Address 321 

house at noon. So I don't go home at noon, and I let myself in at 
night -u-ith this key." 

The fire out, the cold meal set on the stove hearth, no light in the 
crowded room, no mother to hear the little feet as they mounted the 
stairs I Imagine the tiny tot, cUmbing those four flights to the cold, 
dark, lonely room, to wait for her mother. I thought as I looked in 
the child's face, ''How little I know of experiences like hers! How 
much I should have to learn before I could teach her as I ought! " 

May it not be possible, then, that when we are teaching such chil- 
dren, and those whose experience is far more pitiable, we are speaking a 
foreign language, that we cannot teach them except as we understand 
their experience? Our words are filled w^th content by the things 
which we have known. Their knowledge has been of a different sort. 

At the South Station in Boston the other day I saw a large group of 
mothers, young and old, with gay handkerchiefs on their heads, freshly 
scrubbed dark faces, children gathered close to them, a few bags or 
squares of brown cotton, holding their earthly possessions, having no 
converse with those about them. They were strangers in a strange land, 
ha\ing come out of a strange experience into the new country with its 
curiously different ways. You and I have much to learn before we can 
teach home economics to these children, can really make them under- 
stand the American home. We must first learn to understand the 
human experience out of which these children have come. 

I am glad to point to the fine and sturdy work which is being done 
here at Cornell University. This morning I attended a conference 
which ]\Iiss Van Renssalaer was conducting, dealing with the actual 
life of the rural home. The teachers who gathered at this conference 
were discussing real conditions. They know the life of the farmer's 
wife, bringing her water from the distant well to do the family washing, 
feeding the men who came to do the haying, caring for the milk and 
butter, taking a hand in the stress of farm work, rearing the children, 
doing the se\\-ing, the washing, the ironing, serving as nurse, and often 
as physician. How essential that the one who helps the home on the 
farm should understand the home on the farm! When the home 
economics train goes out from Cornell into the farming district, it 
carries not only books and charts, illustrations for the demonstration 
lecture, but it carries women who know the Ufe of the farmer and desire 
with all their hearts to help the earnest women there to lift their '' bet- 
ter up to best." 

Turn away from the farm to the fresh new apartment house in the 



322 The Journal oj Home Economics [October 

city street, six, seven, eight, nine, ten stories high, scant of space, with 
no inch of foot room outside, each door opening from halls where one 
may meet strangers — and 3'ou have another problem of the American 
home. How shall one who knows only the life of the generous country 
house, u-ith its ample space and its abundant provision for all human 
needs, understand the problems of the apartment dweller? 

Here, under our eyes, is the birthright exchanged for the mess of 
pottage. Follow the apartment house children through the next 
generation and the next, migrating from one "fiat" to another, as soon 
as the paper is torn from the wall, having no permanency of association, 
no room for play, no sense of belonging, taking no root anywhere, 
and you will all at once confront a problem which has ceased to be 
personal; it is civic. It concerns us all. For through the apartment 
we are losing out the stuff of which the American home has been built. 

Again turn to the city, and enter the lodging house, which cannot 
be called a home, yet which shelters, merely shelters, numberless girls 
and boys who have come from the country home, lured by the so-called 
advantages of the city. On every side of this land we shall find home- 
less boys and homeless girls who have drifted in from the cotmtry with 
the illusion that they are to attain in the city the thing called educa- 
tion. When shall we have learned that education is bigger than the 
school? When shall we have learned that we cannot hand over in- 
struction in music, mathematics, and what not, making no provision 
for the life which is more than meat? Shall we not find just here that 
again we have bartered the birthright for the mess of pottage, seized 
the few herbs and apples instead of the kingdom which might have 
been ours? Yet this thing is being done over and over again by the 
thousands of girls who go to Boston, New York, or Chicago as students, 
lodging themselves in a hall bedroom, taking their meals in a restaur- 
ant, or cooking their potatoes or their coffee over the gas in their 
rooms, without the conveniences involved in laundry and the common 
home table, giving essentially precious things for the new and often 
bitter experience in the city. You and I are living in the city and 
seeing it going on, and yet are not knowing what is happening. These 
girls with their shining faces, coming from their country homes and 
knowing so little about city life, will write back to their fathers and 
mothers that they have "found a home." What is home economics 
doing to make life right for these girls under urban conditions? 

And shall we forget the thousands upon thousands of homeless 
and motherless children who are cared for in the institutions called 



1913] President's Address 323 

"Homes?" I saw recently a printed appeal to give money for some- 
thing. The person who sent it was cunning enough to strike at once to 
the heart of the reader, for on the cover of the appeal was the photo- 
graph of a motherless family, a little girl of about twelve years, holding 
a baby in her arms with other little ones grouped around her. This 
little mother-sister was mothering all the babies of the group clustered 
about her. Abbott Thayer, in his well known picture called "Caritas," 
in the Boston Museum of Fine Arts, represents a woman with arms 
extended, sheltering on each side a child clinging to her flowing robes. 
Her own child on the one hand, looking so confidingly up to her, and 
the other, the ^nstful waif, who half fears and yet wholly knows that 
because she is the mother she has love and protection, not for her own 
alone, but for all who need her. 

Shall not home economics, then, discover how best to provide a 
home for these motherless boys and girls? Can our work be complete 
before they have secured their real rights? 

For the time being we must give instruction in home economics 
through the school. This is because the school, as the agent of the 
community, must help the children where they most need help; and 
just in proportion as the home is meager or Umited the school must 
contribute the instruction which the home should have given. 

It seems clear to me that for the time being we have a double mis- 
sion to perform. The little girl from the tenement home, who wore 
the rusty key about her neck, must somehow learn what a home may 
mean, or her own children mil be born into a home of the type of that 
from which she comes. First, then, we must teach the children of 
today so that they will be enabled to bestow upon their children a home 
of a finer type than that from which they have come. Our work will 
not be complete imtil this instruction is handed back to the homes. 
Let us hope that it is only for the time being that the schools must 
carry this responsibihty. We are dealing now with a transition period. 
We should look for\vard to the day when, through the help which home 
economics can give, the home will resume its rightful function and give 
to its children the fundamental teaching of which we have spoken. 
Let us do all that we can to reenforce the poor and meager homes 
until there shall be no poor and meager homes amongst us. The 
poor bewildered mothers in the tenement houses or upon the farms 
must be heli)cd where they need help today. Their children should 
be so taught that their homes will be more happy, more wholesome, 
and more efiicient than their mothers' homes have been. 



324 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

Now this cannot be done unless we see our schools from a different 
angle. We must think of education as a preparation for life. A part 
of this preparation may come from the book, another part must come 
through experience, through training. If the home does not give the 
appropriate training the school must temporarily take its place. We 
must insist that a liberal education should secure as one element the 
knowledge and power which make it possible for the youth to fulfil his 
responsibility in the home. Exactly as we now say to the boy, 
"Unless you can read you cannot vote; you must remain in school 
until you have this power," we should say to the girl, "You cannot 
undertake the responsibilities of home-making and home-keeping 
until you are prepared to carry them. You cannot leave school until 
you have at least secured the elements of this training. If from 
your own home you have received this instruction, well and good. If 
not, you must come to us to be taught; so that in your home the com- 
munity will find the essentials of the American home. We shall not 
be satisfied if your children are sewed into their clothes to stay there 
from November until June; we shall not be satisfied if your back door 
spreads disease through the neighborhood; we shall not be satisfied if 
all of your children die in infancy because you have not learned how to 
feed and house them. For your sake and for our sakes, you must 
secure this instruction. " 

The time will come and come soon, when we shall be absolutely 
sure that the sanity and safety of our state institutions depends upon 
the sanity and safety of our homes. Then the state will say to all of 
its girls, "Your life does not belong to yourself as an individual; it 
belongs to all of us, aU together. We need you at your best; we need 
you to be wise and strong and good, for the sake of all of us. You have 
a great contribution to ma,ke to the general welfare and the common 
good. " 

By that time the college will reflect and will say, "I, too, will help; 
I will let no girl go out of my doors who does not see with the utmost 
seriousness that she has responsibilities, not only for the care of herself, 
but for the care of others. I will see that she is so wisely taught and 
so carefully reared that she will clearly recognize her chief duty, her 
highest opportunity, the opportunity in which her greatest privilege 
abides. She will learn through her teaching how essential is the wise, 
well-trained, and great-hearted mother, who is able to meet the respon- 
sibilities of wifehood and motherhood, and in whom her children may 
safely trust." 



1913] President's Address 325 

We shall learn, by and by, that the mastery of the problems of the 
home is one of the tests of the Uberal education. 

Not long ago, in Chicago, having lost my train, I went, in the free 
horn- gained thereby, to look at pictures. I stood for an hour before 
a picture which I shall never forget — a marsh, across which a dike led 
toward a distant knoll. It was t%A'ilight. Dimly seen under the great 
willow tree by the knoll was a low, broT\Ti house. A man bent under a 
hea\y load, was making his way across the dike. Low in the twilight 
sky a star was shining. In the window of the little brown house under 
the tree, a light burned clearly. 

I love to remember the picture, and to think that just as surely as 
the mariner on the sea sends his bark safely across the waves to the 
haven because of that star in the sky, just so surely these boys and 
girls of ours ■vsill at last reach the desired haven because of that very 
light in the window of the home. 



EDITORIALS. 

The new volume of the Woman's Who's Who in America is gathering 
into its net the names of women who shall be considered representative. 
What are the requirements? A college degree makes a very good start 
off; next in order comes some record of literary effort, no matter how 
feeble; to have appeared on the printed page is all important. Next 
to literary prowess ranks acti\'ity on boards of charity, civic leagues, 
etc., while membership in all manner of societies with official positions 
therein, brings up the rear. But in this list of achievements there is a 
significant omission; no mention is found of the ancient and honorable 
profession of homemaking! 

The leisure that has come to women of the well-to-do classes in this 
generation has enabled great numbers of them, those of average as well 
as those of mo re than average abUity, to take part in the world of affairs, 
especially in unpaid social ser\ice, and in most cases this has been 
greatly to the advantage of the community. The daily press, the 
magazines, biographical and obituary notices, are quick to notice and 
record these pubKc aspects of the life of the interesting sex whose do- 
ings a generation ago were very little open to the eyes of men. Now 
are we to conclude that women have suddenly become valuable to the 
world; that these women, singled out as great or near-great, are the 
superiors of their mothers and grandmothers and of their sisters of 
this generation who are wholly concerned with the home? 

It is easy to say that everyone knows the value of the wiie and 
mother, that it is a primal fact, that it goes without saving. By no 
means. We Hve in a time of unsettled standards, of constant readjust- 
ment of values. The young, especially, are greatly influenced in their 
choice of a career and their later satisfaction in it by the honor in which 
it seems to be held. 

Has "she who looketh well to the ways of her household" come to 
be infected with the prevalent unrest? Yes, and with some reason. 
Her grandmother's life was much more toilsome and monotonous than 
is hers, but it was the life of all women whom she knew, she had no friends 
who were living "the wider life," there were no tantalizing visions of 
the part she might play in the great world. 
326 



1913] Editorials 327 

Now all is changed. A woman \\Tites from a country village: 
"Sister Sarah is working in New York among Italians for the 
S. P. C. C, she writes such interesting letters. But don't expect 
anything from me, it's the same old round, the housework and the 
children. " One can read between the lines the longing and the bitter- 
ness, and yet this is a woman of the well-to-do classes, one who can 
look into the sweetly serious eyes of a child, her own child, and help a 
man to his career and his happiness. As the world goes she is a for- 
tunate person and has a great opportunity. Such women are like the 
dwellers in the Happy Valley of whom the poet vainly enquired the 
way. " Where is the road to Arcady? " They shake their heads, they 
live in Arcady and know it not. But if they know it not, if the lovely 
hills that enclose their Valley seem a prison, there is a reason and an 
explanation, and what is it? 

There are, it is true, great hearted women whose eyes are not holden, 
who see the possibilities and the blessings of such a lot, who have drunk 
from the deep primal springs of human life, who, because of their 
experience, can feel themselves akin to "the mighty toiling women of 
the past " on whom our ci\'ilization has been built. And now and then 
the ideaHty of youth reveals to us the very core of the truth. A little 
twelve-year-old Italian girl was waiting with her tiny charge for a 
street-car transfer. "Isn't the baby heavy?" asked a stranger. With 
an ineffable look at the dark head cuddled in her neck, she replied, 
"Oh, he's not heavy; Tony's my brother!" 

But all the same, Tony is too heavy for the little mother and for 
the big mother as well, notwithstanding their love. While we see no 
abatement in the praise of the home as the greatest institution of 
society, "the unit measure on which the state has been built from the 
earliest times," yet there is too much truth in the remark made by the 
mother of four unusually fine children that the man and woman who 
undertake to raise a family are penalized on every side. Even the 
happiness of the home circle does not always repay for sacrifices that 
stunt the mother's development and prevent the father's advancement 
in his profession. They have made a supreme gift to the community 
in these well-endowed and well-trained young citizens, but if the man's 
powers have been crippled by lack of vacation or extra study since 
the money must go for the little shoes and coats, he is as relentlessly 
dropped to a lower rung of the ladder in his calling as if his earnings 
had been spent on bachelor luxuries; and when the mother of the family 
goes out among other women she has a staunch heart indeed if no 



328 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

regrets arise at failure to meet the prevailing standards as to dress, 
conversational agility, and public renown in the clubs. 

Society is not paying its debt to the woman of the household. Help 
should flow through the various channels and flow freely. Will such 
help make the task of the homemaker too easy? Whatever the educa- 
tional and social helps offered her, it is still she who must choose, 
utilize, coordinate; it is she alone who must create the atmosphere in 
which immortal souls are to grow and bloom. 

And not until full help and sympathy is offered her will she see her 
great opportunity and happily meet it. 

The June meeting at Cornell University was a notable one: first, 
because of our hosts whose hospitality was unbounded. The new 
Home Economics building was placed at our dis- 
The Cornell posal; Sage College housed our members; Dean 
Meeting. Bailey, of the College of Agriculture, welcomed us 

and spoke twice for us; Acting President Crane 
gave us an address of welcome and presided on Wednesday 
evening; Ex-President Andrew D. White twice spoke for us, and 
ended our deliberations on July the Fourth by an address at the 
raising of the flag. 

Miss Van Rensselaer and Miss Rose were everywhere and always 
pro\'iding for our comfort and convenience. Behind us and around us 
everywhere was the e^ddence of their strong wholesome work. We 
cannot thank them enough for the countless services they rendered us. 

Again the environment gave us perspective. The noble University, 
the hospitable College of Agriculture, the prosperous Department of 
Home Economics, reenforced and encouraged us. 

Then, further, the attendance was large. From north, east, south 
and west our members came, 243 of them. They came early and stayed 
through. They did take hold of hands. They were devoted and en- 
thusiastic and "they helped every one his neighbor." 

Then Mrs. Dewey and Mrs. Abel came and stayed. Mrs. Abel 
presented the need of a housewives' department in the Journal, but 
said she could not undertake to edit it without the assurance of a year's 
contributions plus $500 for expenses. In one day the $500 was pledged 
for our work. Our Journal, if you please. 

Then the program showed us the reach of home economics. We 
saw something of the reach of our domain. The speakers showed us 
home economics as taught and applied on the farm, in the tenement, by 



1 9 1 3 ] Editorials 329 

the district \isitor, or the trained nurse. The Institution showed us 
how it studied its problems, and the teacher displayed hers. Many- 
said, "I had not reaUzed how far our work reaches." 

And then we had a good secretary who was untiring and the help of 
those who have never failed us yet, and many new yoimg members, and 
the representatives of the homes. President Vincent generously helped 
us by his stirring address, and Professor Carver led us straight to funda- 
mental doctrine in his address on "The Family. " 

Those who could be there came away with glad and helpful memories. 
Let us do as well or better next year. Come one, come all. 

The Editorial Board washes to call attention to the advertising 
section of the Journal, with the suggestion that the firms advertising 
be given an opportunity when goods are purchased. 
Journal The Journal undertakes to restrict its advertising 

Advertise- matter to products of known quality, and believes 

ments. that it will be of assistance to teachers and house- 

keepers if it is recognized that the standard in this 
matter is as high as in all other things. It is a rule of business to 
mention the Journal in writing to advertisers. 

The illness of some of some of those who had been counted upon 
to co-operate and help has hindered the rapid progress which was 

expected. Nevertheless the plans for the house- 
The keepers' section of the Journal are being perfected. 

Housekeepers' At the earliest possible date the section will be 
Section started. All who have promised to contribute 

material are urged to send it to the editor as soon 
as possible. All who have suggestions to make are reminded that 
they will be welcome. The cordial support of home economics' 
workers is needed to insure the success of the new project. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS LITERATURE 

I. Food. 

The Coating and Polishing of Rice. L. A. Congdon, iV. Dak. Exp. Sta., Spec. 
Bui. 2, 191 2, no. I. 

The Quantitative Separation and Determination of Subsidiary Dyes in the 
Permitted Food Colors. W. E. Mathewson, U. S. Dept. Agr., Bur. Chem., Circ. 

113- 

The Identification of Small Amounts of Dyestuffs by Oxidation with Bromine. 
W. E. Mathewson, U. S. Dept. Agr., Bur. Chem., Circ. 114. 

Determination of Fat in Bread. G. Grujic, Orig. Com. 8th Internat. Congr. Appl, 
Chem. {Appendix), 26, 1913, pp. 1-3. 

Graham Flour. J. A. LeClerc and B. R. Jacobs, U. S. Dept Agr., Bur. Chem., 
Bui. 164. 

Adulteration of Jams. E. Marriage, Jour. Roy. Soc. Arts, 61, 1913, pp. 371- 

384. 

"Springers" in Canned Foods, Causes and Prevention. H. A. Baker, Dis- 
cussions, 8lh Internal. Cong. Appl. Chem., 27, 1913, pp. 155-156. 

Sweet Potato Investigation. T. E. Keitt, S. Carolina Agr. Exp. Sla., Bui. 
165, pp. 3-44. (Analyses, food value, etc.) 

Factors Influencing the Change in Flavor in Storage Butter. L. A. Rogers, 
U. S. Dept. Agr., Bur. Anim. Indus., Bui. 162. 

Cheese. A. McGUl, Lab. Inland Rev. Dept. (Canada) Bid. 247, 1913. (Analyses 
of 141 samples.) 

Vegetables — Their Food Value and Preparation. Elizabeth Jefferson and Mary 
Edmonds, Ohio State Univ., Agr. Col. Ext. Bui., 7, 191 2, no. 10. 

The Chemical Composition of Cooked Vegetable Foods (III). Katherine I. 
Williams, Jour. Indus, and Eng. Chem., 5, 1913, pp. 653-656. 

Peppermint Oil. Yemosuke Shinoski, Jour. Indus, and Eng. Chem., 5, 1913, 
pp. 656-666. 

Preserves and Pickles. Sophie B. Hurd, published by author, Oneida, N. Y., 
1912. Price, 25 cents. (Forty recipes are included.) 

Oysters and How to Cook Them. The Oyster Growers and Dealers Associa- 
tion of North America, New York (N. D.), p. 24. 

Carbonated Beverages and Ice Cream. Maine Slate O^ff. Insp., 45, pp. 181-192. 

Mushrooms and Toadstools. W. A. Setchell, Cal. Sta. Circ. 84, p. 4. 

Some Useful Native Plants of New Mexico. P. C. Stanley, Ann. Rept. Smiths' n* 
1910-1911, pp. 447-462. 

Increasing Use of Corn Foods. Anier. Food Jour., 8, 1913, no. i, pp. 5, 6, 
figs. 3. (With a description of the manufacture of flaked com breakfast foods 
and other com products.) 

Candy — Cheap and Expensive. C. H. LaWall, Amer. Jour. Pharm., 85, 1913. 
no. I, pp. 13-18. 



1913] Bibliography of Current Literature 331 

Mutton and Its Value in the Diet. C. F. Langworthy and Caroline L. Hunt, 
U. S. Depl. Agr., Farmers' Bui. §26. 

Raisins, Figs, and Other Dried Fruits and their Use. C. F. Langworthy, 
U. S. Depl. of Agr., Yearbook, 1912, Separate 610. 

Hardening Liquid Fats by H\'drogenation. Sci. Amer. Sup., 75, 1913, no. 1935, 
p. 71. (Products used as commercial lard substitutes.) 

2. Nutrition. 

Studies on the Intermediary Metabolism of .\mino-acids. H. D. Dakin, Jour. 
Biol. Chem., 14, 1913, pp. 321-333. 

The Receptive Relaxation of the Colon. Henr>' Lj-man, Ayner. Jour. Physiol., 
2,2, 1913, no. i,pp. 61H55. 

The Effect of Adrenal Secretion on Aluscular Fatigue. W. B. Cannon and L. 
B. Nice, Amer. Jour. Physiol., 32, 44, May, 1913. 

Some Points to be Considered in the Planning of a Rational Diet. Susannah 
Usher, Univ. III. Bid., g, 1912, no. 32, p. 15. 

The Well Fed Child. A. F. Benedict, Bui. Amer. Acad. Med., 14, no. 3, pp. 
230-236. 

Studies of the Inorganic Metabolism in Pneumonia, with Especial Reference 
to Calcium and Magnesium. Peabody, Jour. E.xpt. Med., 17, 1913, pp. 71-82. 

Artificial Activation of the Growth in Vitro of Connective Tissues. A. Carrel, 
Jour. Expt. Med., 17, 1913, pp. 14-19. 

Diabetes Mellitus. A. J. Hodgson, Jour. Can. Med. Assn., 2, 1913, pp. 874- 
891. (A re\-iew, especially of diet.) 

The Biochemical Relation between Pyruvic Acid and Glucose. H. D. Dakin 
and N. W. Janney, Jour. Biol. Chem., 15, 1913, pp. 177-181. 

The Chemistry of Glucogenesis. V. The R6le of Pjtuvic Acid in the Inter- 
mediary Metabolism of Alanine. A. I. Ringer, Jour. Biol. Chem., 15, 19 13, pp. 
145-153- 

The Interconversion of a-Amino-Acids, a-Hydroxj'-Acids and a-Ketonic Acids. 
Part II. H. D. Dakin and H. W. Dudley, Jour. Biol. Chem., 15, 1913, pp. 127-145. 

On Fat Absorption. II. Absorption of Fat-like Substances other than Fats. 
W. R. Bloor, Jour. Biol. Chem., 15, 1913, pp. 105-119. 

The Relation of Diets and of Castration to the Transmissible Tumors of Rats 
and Mice. J. E. Sweet, E. P. Corson-WTiite and G. J. Saxon, Jour. Biol. Chem., 
15, 1913, PP- 181-193- 

The Necessity of Certain Lipins in the Diet During Growth. E. V. McCollum 
and M. Da\'is, Jour. Biol. Chem., 15, 1913, pp. 167-175. 

The Metabolism .After Meat Feeding of Dogs in which Pancreatic External 
Secretion was Absent. F. G. Benedict and J. H. Pratt, Jour. Biol. Chem., 15, 
1913, pp. 1-35. 

Experiments on the Minimum Nitrogen Content of the Normal Diet in Rest and 
at Work. U. Folena, Ann. ig. sper., n. ser. 22, 297, Chem. Abs., June 20, 1913, 
2056. 

The Food Requirements of Children. Chalmers Watson, Brit. Med. Jour., i, 
1913, 603-605. 



332 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

The Effect of Food on the Breaking Strength of Bone. E. A. Burnett, Neh. 
Agr. Exp. Sta., Bui. 107, Part II. 

On Glyoxalase. H. D. Dakin and H. W. Dudley, Jour. Biol. Chem., 14, 1913. 

pp. 423-431- 

Studies in the Purine Metabolism. I. On Uricolysis in the Human Subject. 
A. E. Tajdor and W. C. Rose, Jour. Biol. Chem., 14, 1913, pp. 419-422. 

The Utilization of Ammonia in the Protein Metabolism. A. E. Taylor and 
A. I. Ringer, Jour. Biol. Chem., 14, 1913, pp. 407-418. 

Studies on the Formation and Excretion of Formic Acid. H. D. Dakin, N. W. 
Janney and A. J. Wakeman, Jour. Biol. Chem., 14, 1913, pp. 341-355. 

Muscular Work: A metabolic Study with Special Reference to the Efficiency 
of the Body as a Machine. F. G. Benedict and E. P. Cathcart, Pub. Carnegie 
Institution of Washington, no. 187. (In press.) 

Sugar and Its Value as Food. U. S. Dept. of Agr., Farmers' Bulletin, §35, 1913. 

The Rate of Protein Catabolism. Cathcart and Green, 5z"oc/zc?«./oMr., 7, 1913, i. 

Metabolism of a Child with Complete Absence of the Bile from the Intestines. 
W. S. Parker, Amer. Jour. Dis. Child., May, 1913, p. 386. 

The Problem of School Limches in Trieste. G. Timeus, Expt. Sta. Rec., 28, 
1913, no. 6, p. 566. (From Rapporto sanitario del Comune di Trieste.) 

Order Forbidding the Use of Polished Rice in all Public Institutions, etc. N. 
W. Gilbert, Off. Gaz. (P. I.), 10, 1912, no. 20, p. 968. (An executive order regard- 
ing the use of polished rice in the Philippines.) 

3. Hygiene and Sanitation. 

The Life Insurance Company as a D3Tiamic in the Movement for Physical 
Welfare. E. L. Fisk, Pop. Set. Mo., April, 1913, pp. 381-387. 

The Movement for a National Department of Health. Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., 
60, 1913, no. 18, pp. 1382-1385. 

A Health Program for New York State. W. H. Allen, Survey, 29, 1913, no. 
24, pp. 838-839. 

Modern Steam Sterilization. Max Rubner, Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., 60, 1913, 
no. 18, pp. 1344-1348. 

Duluth Sets Good Housing Standards. Survey, 29, 1913, no. 25, p. 859-860. 

Cold Storage Food. Survey, 29, 1913, no. 20, pp. 680-681. 

Interstate Conference to Fix Milk Standards. Survey, 29, 1913, no. 24, p. 836. 

Municipal Meat Inspection. David S. White, Bui. Ohio Bd. Health, 3, 1913, 

2, pp. 101-109. 

The Control of Communicable Disease by the Municipality. E. F. McCamp- 
bell, Ph.D., M.D., Bui. Ohio Bd. Health, 3, 1913, 4, pp. 225-234. 

Responsibility of the Health Officer. H. T. Sutton, M.D., Bui. Ohio. Bd. Health, 

3. 1913, 4, PP- 235-240. 

Open-Air Schools. Thomas W. Grayson, Bui. Amer. Acad. Med., 14, 1913, 3, 
pp. 217-222. 

The Useful Bacteria. Editorial. Bui. Ohio Bd. Health, 3, 1913, 2, p. 137. 

The Desirability of Teaching Preventive Medicine in the Higher Institutions 
of Learning. Henry B. Hemenway, Bui. Amer. Acad. Med., 14, 1913, no. 3, pp. 
210-216. 



1913] Bibliography of Current Literature 333 

Medical Inspection of Schools. Edward W. Goodenough, Bid. Amer. Acad. 
Med., 14, 1913, no. 3, pp. 223-229. 

Insects and the Transmission of Disease. C. K. Brain, F. E. S., Bui. Ohio Bd. 
Health, 3, 1913, 2, pp. 110-127. 

Contaminated Vegetables. The Use of Night Soil in the Vegetable Garden as 
a Possible Disseminator of Disease. J. D. Long, Surgeon, U. S. Public Health 
Service, Bui. Ohio Bd. Health, 3, 1913, 4, pp. 249-250. (Reprinted from Public 
Health Reports, 1913, p. 592.) 

The Significance of Occupational Diseases. E. R. Hayhurst, Bui. Ohio Bd. 
Health, 3, 1913, no. 6, pp. 515-519. 

Classification of Diseases of Occupation. Bui. Ohio. Bd. Health, 3, 1913, no. 6, 
PP- 519-522. 

On the Question of Food Poisoning Bacteria. G. Mayer, Jour. State Med., 21, 
1913, pp. 98-102. 

Open-Window Schoolrooms. A. G. Rice, Boston Med. and Surg. Jour., 1913, 
p. 168. 

A Study of the Bacteria which Survive Pasteurization. S. H. Ayers and W. T. 
Johnson, Jr., U. S. Dept. Agr., Bur. Anitn. Indus., Bui. 161. 

Public Health Legislation in Alaska. House Bill 80, Territory of Alaska, first 
session. (Cf. Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., 61, 1913, p. 42.) 

European Municipal Market Conditions and Management. Mrs. E. Black, 
New York, 1912, pp. 32, figs. 12; Cong. Rec, 49, 1913, no. 41, pp. 2221-2224. 
(Results of an investigation undertaken for the New York Terminal Market Com- 
mission.) 

Report of the Commission to Investigate the Subject of the Cold Storage of 
Food and of Food Products Kept in Cold Storage. Mass. State Pub. Doc, 191 2. 

The Possibility of Tin Poisoning from the Use of Coffee from Tinned Con- 
tainers. H. Strunk, Veroffentl. Mil. Sanitdtru.'., 1912, no. 52, pp. 1-25; abs. in 
Zentbl. Biochem. u. Biophys., 13, 1912, no. 14-15, p. 639; Expt. Sta. Rec, 28, 1913, 
no. 6, p. 565. (Coffee infusion allowed to remain 8 to 98 hours contained no tin.) 

Experiments in Salt Pickling. R. Hottinger, Ann. Escola Polytech., Sao. Paulo, 
II, 1911, pp. 119-125; abs. Expt. Sta. Rec, 28, 1913, no. 6, p. 564. (Experiments 
in pickling meats and other products indicate that salt does not prevent microbic 
contamination.) 

Seasonal Variation in the Bacterial Content of Oysters. F. P. Gorham, Jour. 
Amer. Pub. Health Assn., 2, 1912, no. i, pp. 24-27. 

Report on Bakeries and Bakers in New York City. G. M. Price, Prel. Rpt. 
N. Y. Stale Factory Invest. Com., i, 191 2, pp. 201-268, pis. 11. (With bibliography 
and summary of bakery legislation.) 

Common Drinking Cups and Roller Towels: An Analysis of the Laws and Regu- 
lations Thereto, in Force in the United States. J. W. Kerr and A. A. Moll, U. S. 
Public Health Bui. no. 57. 

Dangerous Practice in the Feeding of Infants. New Hampshire State Bd. 
Health, Quart. Bui., October, 191 2, p. 65. (Note on keeping warm milk in vacuum 
bottles.) 



334 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

4. Education and Social Work. 

Home Labor Saving Devices. Mrs. J. A. Widtsoe, Dry Farming Cong. Bid., 6, 
1912, no. 3, pp. 105-112. 

Labor-Savers in the Laundry. L. Ray Balderston, Country Gent., 77, 1912, 
no. 20, p. II, dgms. 5. (With reference to farm laundry problems.) 

Handwork in Rural Schools. Louise Wetmore, Jour. Agr. and Hort., Montreal, 
16, 1913, no. 12, pp. 252-253, figs. 7. (Directions and suggestions for school work.) 

Proceedings of the middle Tennessee Home-Makers' Association, December 5-7, 

1911. Proc. Middle Tenn. Farmers Inst., 10, 1911, pp. 121-159; in Tcnn. Bien. 
Rpt. Dept. Agr., 1911-12. (Household Efficiency, by Catherine A. Mulligan; 
Home Conveniences, by Mrs. J. T. Stratton; How to Make the Farmer's Home 
More Comfortable, by Mrs. R. W. Nichol; and The Rural School, the Social 
Center of Country Life, by Mrs. C. Wilhams.) 

Proceedings of the Middle Tennessee Home-Makers' Association, December 3-5, 

1912. Tenn. Agr., i, 1913, no. 9, pp. 487-509, figs. 3; in Tenn. Bien. Rpt. Dept. 
Agr., 1911-12. (Cooperation Between City and Country Women, by Mrs. A. 

5. Cooke; The Care of Children in the Home, by Mrs. T. G. Settle; and School 
Lunches, by Delia Stroud.) 

Home Economics: A Bibliography for High Schools. Department Home Eco- 
nomics, State College of Washington, Pullman, Wash., 1913, pp. 23. 

The Teachers' Work in the Field of Public Health. E. F. McCampbell, Bui. 
Ohio Bd. Health, 3, 1913, no. 6, pp. 483-489. 

Certain Facts in the Field of Sanitary Engineering which the Teacher and 
Public Should Know. W. H. Dittoe, Bui. Ohio Bd. Health, 3, 1913, no. 6, pp. 

489-499- 

Housekeeping Centers in Settlements and Public Schools. Mabel Hyde Kit- 
tredge. The Survey, 30, 1913, no. 5, pp. 188-192. 

Course of Study in Industrial Education, including Domestic Science, Manual 
Training and Agriculture for the Schools of New Mexico. Manette A. Myers, 
N. Mex. St. Dept. Ed., 1913, pp. 51. 

Special Report on Agriculture and Domestic Science made by the State Board 
of Regents. Charleston, W. Va., Dept. Schools, 191 2, pp. 75. 

Educational Contests in Agriculture and Home Economics. George I. Christie 
U. S. Dept. Agr., Of. Expt. Sta., Bui. 255, I9i3,pp. 47. 

Household Science at St.-Mary-of-the-Woods. Amer. Food Jour., 8, 1913, no. 

6, p. 168. (A brief accoimt of the recently established domestic science and art 
course.) 

Basic Dietary Ration Tables and Waste Accounting System. C. S. Pitcher, 
Institution Quart. (III.), 4, 1913, no. i, pp. 129-143. (Advantages derived from 
the use of basic dietary ration tables and the waste accounting system.) 

Division of Household Science: Annual Report for the Year 191 1. Jeanette C. 
van Duyn, Union So. Africa Dept. Agr. Rpt., with App., 1910-11, p. 663. 

Course in Domestic Science, Domestic Science Division, School of Agriculture, 
University of Minnesota. Juniata L. Shepperd, 2. Cong. Intcrnat. Hyg. Aliment. 
Bruxelles Proc. 1910, sect. 7, p. 142. 

Higher Education in Home Economics in the United States. C. F. Langworthy 
and Marie T. Spethmann, 2 Cong. Internal. Hyg. Aliment. Bruxelles Proc, 1910, 
sect. 7, pp. 113-114. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 

Any books or periodicals mentioned in this department may be obtained through 
the Journal of Home Economics at the price listed. 

Food and Flavor. By Henr>' T. Finck. New York: The Century Company. 
$2. By mail of the Journal, $2.16. 

Why is the acute obsers^er of food customs in different lands, the critic of kitchen 
pedantry, the zealous conser\-ator of food resources, always a man? Brillat de 
Savarin, to begin no farther back, is the type, he whose charming essays and 
Physiologie du Gout, make the mouth water; Count Rumford who introduced the 
potato to Germany and evolved the kitchen range; Sir Henry Thompson who has 
enriched our culinary literature with his book, Food ?.nd Feeding; Edward Atkinson 
who gave us our first type of fireless cooker, are all examples. One of the latest 
books in this line is Mr. Finck's Food and Flavor which is announced as "A gastro- 
nomic guide to health, wealth and wholesome pleasures," thus striking at once the 
note of humorous extravagance always found in these authors. 

M . Finck holds that we are obsessed with the one idea of nutriment in our 
food, disregarding the extreme importance which he believes should be assigned 
to its savoriness and the effect of enjoyment in eating on the flow of the digestive 
fluids. He arraigns this country imder the heading " Ungastronomic America," 
averring that we have low standards as to quality in food materials, that we do 
not demand and therefore do not get fresh vegetables and fruits and prime meats; 
that we do not realize the importance in flavor however low in nutrient content 
in order to vary the cheap basic foods of which the diet must be composed. His 
views on cold storage fowls, fish, oj-sters "fattened" in brackish water, ham pre- 
served in "liquid smoke," are vigorously expressed. He calls loudly for a halt in 
the present destruction of our shell-fish by discharging sewage into rivers and 
harbors, and urges that our lakes and ponds be stocked with fish and our parks 
with deer and that they be fed and protected as they are in Germany. 

As to the poor cooking found everywhere in our country he charges it to lack of 
interest and sentiment and considers it as disgraceful as a crude taste in music or 
painting. He fully believes that every housewife should master the art whether 
to teach or to practice it because it is too important to be trusted to incapable 
hands or to wholesale methods. He overlooks the fact, however, that the aver- 
age home cook in America does with flour and similar cereal products the kind 
of thing that only the first-class cook, as a rule, attempts in so many other 
countries. As a proof of her success witness the corn bread, spoon bread, beaten 
biscuits, popovers, biscuit, bread, rolls, cakes and so on. They compare favor- 
ably with the kind of thing the foreign professional cook can make and many 
of them are finding their place in the classics of cookery. 

This interesting book is one of the few that gives full and extended praise to the 
work done by our Department of Agriculture in its Farmers' Bulletins devoted to 
food and its preparation, but from the standpoint of the student the book is some- 
what marred by a false idea of relative values as to food nutrients. 

335 



336 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

Increasing Home Efficiency. By Martha Bensley Bruere and Robert W. 

Bruere. New York: The Macmillan Company. 1912. $1.50. By mail of the 

Journal, $1.62. 

"The budget is to the housekeeper what a set of blue prints is to the builder." 
At last we have a book devoted to the "middle class" housekeeper and her problems. 
Such a book as this would not have been written even five years ago, for it is sig- 
nificant of a new home building that a book on efficiency contains not a single cook- 
ing recipe, and we do get much information about income and expenditures, of 
trusts and pensions. 

The basis of efficiency is found just where it has always resided, not in the wonder- 
ful skill of the housekeeper but in the wages of the "breadwinner." Dr. Chapin's 
estimate of $900 for "decency" is raised to $1000 and a budget of $1200 is pro- 
nounced as the lowest sum for "efficiency," for the normal family, a distinction 
well worth emphasizing. This is an income to live on, not to save on, another fine 
point worth a chapter of elucidation. In place of saving (on low incomes) we have 
a new contribution to the discussion of the problems of the middle class family in 
the suggestion that old age, sickness and accident insurance pensions be provided 
for this group as well as for the "working class." Moreover, budget making is 
declared to be a government task quite as important as the preparation of vitality 
statistics. 

A valuable warning is given the parents who make untold sacrifices that their 
children may obtain an education in the trade or profession which they feel their 
natural talents indicate, quite irrespective of the fact that the world is perhaps 
already amply supplied with trained service in that field, as witness the oversupply 
of M.D.'s. The chapter on training the " Consumer" really treats of the "Spender" 
as Nearing and Richardson have more correctly defined the housewife. It is sur- 
prising to find this old phraseology still current. 

Altogether this is a work which the husband and wife struggling to stretch $1000 
to $3000 across the expansive wants of a normal family of five cannot afford to 
pass by. 

The New Housekeeping. Efficiency Studies in Home Management. By 
Christine Frederick. New York: Doubleday, Page and Company. $1.00. 
By mail of the Journal, $1.08. 

Mrs. Frederick in her book has written on household efficiency from the inside 
giving in a very personal way a discussion of standards in housekeeping as Mrs. 
Bruere gave from the outside in her book. Increasing Home Efficiency. 

In sixteen chapters Mrs. Frederick discusses motion study, floor plan of the kitchen 
and routing the kitchen tasks; the family budget is treated together with the wage 
schedule and the servant problem. The relation of the individual efficiency to 
the efficiency of the household and the standardization of equipment and 
method, forms an introduction to the discussion of the need of legislation in regard 
to enforcing a one-price plan which shall be the same in all sections of the country. 
She makes a strong stand for educating the housewife to demand good quality, full 
weight, and standard purity in all that she purchases for the home, rightly insisting 
that such instruction must come through the home economics movement in educa- 
tion. This book may be considered as supplementary to such books as Mrs. 



1913] Books and Literature 337 

Brudre's and Miss Ravenhill's Household Administration in the Twentieth 
Century. 

The book contains a few good illustrations and points out the lines of investi- 
gation which a housekeeper may follow in attempting to do her o^\ti work without 
very much outside assistance. 

Law of the Household. By Mrs. Eunice Beecher. Boston: Small, Maynard and 
Company. $2. By mail of the Journal, §2. 15. 

Mrs. Beecher has put into concrete form what has long been needed, an outline 
in which she systematized the labor in large private homes. We have so many 
unwritten standards in this country that any attempt to systematize the problem 
is most welcome and this will be found to be a very suggestive book for the mis- 
tress of a large establishment, and invaluable for the woman who is acting house- 
keeper. 

Mrs. Beecher in her introduction points out that this volume has been evolved 
after years of e.xperience and that it was intended primarily for the use of mem- 
bers of her own family who are estabhshing their homes. It provides a working 
outline for each worker for the day as well as for the week. 

Household Bacteriology for Students in Domestic Science. By Estelle D. 
Buchanan, M. S. and Robert Earie Buchanan, Ph.D. New York: The Mac- 
nullan Company. 1913. $2.25. By mail of the Journal, S2.43. 

Since the days of Pasteur who rejuvenated the wine industry of France by his 
fundamental experiments in bacteriology, and of his successor at the Institut 
Pasteur, Duclaux, who applied the principles discovered by Pasteur to many of 
the great practical problems of wine manufacture, the role of microorganisms in 
many of the familiar processes of every day life has been more and more appre- 
ciated. The view that bacteria are chiefly instrumental in the production of disease 
and that they play nothing but a malicious part in the world, while a prevalent 
one, is not borne out by a thorough study of their various activities. Their im- 
portance in the world's economy is but little appreciated however, and this excellent 
text-book of E. D. and R. E. Buchanan is a welcome addition to the literature of 
the subject. The name Household Bacteriology is a little misleading and does 
not give the public an adequate idea of the scope of the volume. It is in reality a 
textbook on the principles of bacteriology with a special reference to the function 
of microorganisms in nature as exemplified in the changes occurring in the soU, in 
milk, in cider and vinegar, and in relation to plant life in general. 

The chapters devoted to such subjects as alcoholic and lactic acid fermentation 
are especially to be commended, as well as that treating of the decomposition of 
proteins. As far as possible the changes inaugurated by microorganisms are e.x- 
plained by the chemical reaction involved, the most important method of elucidat- 
ing the complexities of the subject. The latter part of the volume is devoted to 
the pathogenic bacteria, and the descriptions of the typhoid bacillus, tubercle bacil- 
lus, diphtheria bacillus and other pathogenic organisms, while brief, are in the 
main correct. The concluding chapters of the book deal with the bacterial con- 
taminations of water and milk and the methods for their examination. 



338 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

This volume of the Buchanans is carefully written and can be highly recom- 
mended. We have but one suggestion to offer in the nature of a criticism, and this 
concerns the historical introduction which is extremely meagre and does not pre- 
sent clearly the important points in their chronological development. Consider- 
able injustice is done Robert Koch, we believe, in the failure to mention his impor- 
tant contributions published from 1878-1882, which first established our ideas as to 
the relationship of bacteria to disease on a firm basis by the production of anthrax 
in animals by pure cultures. Furthermore, no mention is made, at least in this 
portion of the book, of the poured plate method of separating organisms which 
was devised by Koch and without which the science of bacteriology could not have 
developed. 

Finally it should be noted that the text-book is not merely useful to industrial 
bacteriologists but contains a great deal of information which is valuable for the 
student of medicine. 

The Home School. By Ada Wilson Trowbridge. Riverside Educational Mono- 
graphs. Boston: Houghton, MifSin Compan3\ 1913, pp. 95. $0.60. By 
mail of the Journal, $0.65. 

The home school, as described in this book, is not so radical an educational 
departure as we are led to expect from the opening chapters which deal with the need 
for a new t^^pe of school. It is a step forward, to be sure, but the next step, and 
not the step after the next. It is an experiment which might well be tried imme- 
diately in any city or large town and which doubtless ought to be tried in all fac- 
tory districts. 

The Home School at Providence, of which the writer has been in charge since 
its opening two years ago, and which forms the subject of the descriptive chapters of 
the book, is primarily a continuation school for working girls. Such girls as a 
group have two educational needs — the need for instruction which will help them 
to advance in their work and the need for training in housecraft. The latter is 
met by this school whose training differs from that of the usual domestic science 
course in being given under home conditions. The work of the school, which is 
conducted in a five-room flat and is a part of the public school system, is carefully 
outlined by the author and the housekeeping notes used in the classes are given. 

Perhaps the most original feature is found in the emphasis placed upon the 
home as a place where "the enlarging activities and responsibilities of women" 
are to be housed. Hope for the rapid growth of home industries by which women 
may earn money without going out into factory or office is drawn from experi- 
ence. "There is demand for all the bread and cake baked at the Providence 
Home School and a little svmi realized from this was turned over to the superin- 
tendent at the end of the first year." The girls "have sold jelly made from wild 
barberry, and outings are planned for gathering the wild grapes and apples for 
jelly." "In every locality there is material that for one reason or another offers 
special economic possibilities either from the standpoint of use or art. In Cali- 
fornia, for example, there are the fruits not suitable for shipping which may be 
purchased for very little. In Florida there are the 'drops' in the orange and 
grapefruit groves which may be had almost for the askinjg, yet it is often impos- 
sible to buy good home-made orange or grapefruit marmalade. And although 



1913] Books atid Literature 339 

the giiava grows easily and abundantly in Florida, the 'guava-paste' one buys is 
made in Cuba or Honduras, and in the tourist season it is sometimes impossible 
to get good home-made guava jelly. The kumquat is abundant, and the preserved 
fruit a great delicacy, but no housewife has yet been enterprising enough to put 
this on the market for the benefit of the tourists. In the South there are many 
rarities and novelties in fruits and made delicacies which offer an opportunity for 
the development of home industry, particularly in those sections visited by tour- 
ists. A few successful home schools would help to show what can be done with 
home market gardens, the cultivation of flowers for selling, home baking, needle- 
work, and art work of all kinds." 

Since the time is ripe for the establishment of home schools, this little volume 
is likely to find a host of readers. For this reason, its errors in fact (very few, to 
be sure) like that which makes "the eggplant a wholesome substitute for meat, 
cheaper and more healthful;" and its few errors in judgment like that involved 
in the instruction, "often shake the duster out of the window or door," when the 
window or door is that of an apartment in a crowded district, are greatly to be 
regretted. It is unfortunate too that the writer should have described the school 
in a spirit of "throwing down the gaimtlet to the laboratory method of training 
girls for the vocation of home makers and mothers," instead of allowing her help- 
ful and inspiring record of achievement to stand for itself, as a contribution toward 
the solution of one small part of the education of young women. 

The Three Gifts of Life. By Nellie M. Smith. New York: Dodd, Mead and 
Company, $0.50. By mail of the Journal, $0.55. 

The Three Gifts of Life is one of the most satisfactory books that has ever been 
published in regard to the problem of what and how to teach the girl in regard to 
her responsibility for race progress. The introduction by Thomas D. Wood, of 
Columbia University, is not the least valuable part of the book. 

Miss Smith presents the facts of life in simple language, full of concrete illustra- 
tions so that the girl of the grammar grade will find it both interesting and easy to 
imderstand. The discussion of the meaning of life is taken through the plant 
world and lower animal world up to human life and the responsibility that rests 
upon the girl in choosing that which wiU make for better race development. It 
tells in a direct, unsentimental way, how the girl may influence other girls and 
men to be their best selves by always holding the ideal that women can help race 
progress by seeking the best in themselves, and demanding the best in men. 

No girl should be allowed to go away to school till she knows the simple facts 
that are contained in this book so that she may better meet the problems and 
temptations that may come to her. 

Primer of Hygiene. By John W. Ritchie and J. S. Caldwell. Yonkers-on- 

Hudson: World Book Company. New World Science Series. $0.40. By mail 

of the Journal, S0.48. 
Primer of Sajiitation. By John W. Ritchie and J. S. Caldwell. Yonkers-on- 

Hudson: World Book Company. New World Science Series. $0.50. By 

mail of the Journal, $0.60. 



340 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

Primer of Physiology. By John W. Ritchie and J. S. Caldwell. Yonkers-on- 
Hudson: World Book Company. New World Science Series. $0.60. By mail 
of the Journal, $0,70. 

These three books are intended for use in school below the high school grade. 
They are good in so many ways that it is to be regretted that they are not good 
on every count. The Primer of Hygiene is the best of the three. It is direct, 
simple, and well illustrated. 

The Primer of Sanitation discusses in great detail the methods of infection and 
the means of prevention, but some of the illustrations are not sufficiently labeled. 
On page 9 neither the text nor the illustration sufficiently emphasizes the danger of 
the child eating from the spoon which has been used by a sick man. So many dis- 
eases are discussed in detail that the omission of gonorrhea and syphilis cannot 
escape attention. 

In the Primer of Physiology, the division of the body is discussed in detail as 
to the problem of reproduction, but although twenty-five pages are given to the 
subject of tobacco and alcohol no mention is made of the need of care in regard to 
personal hygiene of the most important organs of the body. Except in this regard 
there seems to be no hesitation in discussing the whole problem of ill health. 

The three books are a distinct contribution to a more sane method of teaching 
personal hygiene. The use of black type for the heading of each new subject is a 
help to the student. 

Studies on the Feeding of School Children. By A. van Voorthuysen. 
Nederland. Tijdschr. Geneesk., 2. 191 2, no. 3, pp. 165-177. Abs. in Zentbl. 
Expt. Med. 2, 191 2, no. 15, pp. 695, 696. Expt. Sta. Rec. 28 (1913) no. 7, p. 
664. 

To study the effect of abundant and insufficient food, weighings were made at 
intervals of 98 children who were given the school lunch in addition to the food 
received at home. 

The investigation showed, according to the author, that the children of the 
poorer people dependent solely upon the food received at home gained in weight 
very slowly, whUe the children receiving the school lunch in addition gained more 
rapidly. The author is of the opinion that, in general, the ordinary food is defi- 
cient in fat and protein. He considers that 60 grams protein per day is not too 
much for a child, and that dietary conditions can be improved by adding protein 
to the ration. 

Our Children's Health at Home and at School. Edited by C. E. Hecht, M.A., 
National Food Reform Association, 178 St. Stephen's House, Westminster, 
1912, pp. 467. s sh. 

This is a report of a conference on diet and hygiene in public secondary and 
private schools held at Guildhall, London, May 13, 1912, and has the strong and 
also the weak points of this form of publication. While it lacks unity and con- 
tinuity and involves many repetitions of material, it has the advantage of pre- 
senting the views of a large number of educators as given by them at the confer- 
ence. The book is divided into three parts. The first contains the report of 
proceedings; the second, a reproduction of the exhibits shown at the conference, 



1913] Books ajid Literature 341 

which consist largely of bills of fare of schools; and the third, the comments of the 
press on the conference. 

The special subjects of the conference were, diet in public secondary and priv^ate 
schools, diet as a factor in physical, intellectual, and moral efficiency; existing 
methods, the main lines of reform in school diet; instruction in the elements of 
physiology and personal hygiene; problems in institutional feeding; and training 
in institutional management. 

Among the papers presented were the following: "Diet as a Factor in Physical, 
Intellectual, and Moral Efficiencj'," by Clement Dukes; " Diet in Boarding Schools," 
by IMiss M. E. Robertson; "Diet in Preparatory Schools," by W. H. Prosser; 
"The Importance of Adequate Meals and Suitable Dietary in Securing Efficiency 
and Good Scholarship," by Alfred A. Mumford; "Main Lines of Reform in Feed- 
ing at Public Secondary and Private Schools," by J. Sim Wallace (this paper dis- 
cusses the value of foods with particular reference to their effects on the teeth) ; 
"The Teaching of Elementary Physiology and Personal Hygiene in Public Sec- 
ondary and Private Schools," by Mrs. Alice M. Bum (with an outline syllabus); 
"The Teaching of Health (Personal and Social)," by Dr. CecU Reddie; "Problems 
in Institutional Feeding," by ^Vlrs. Stanley HazeU; and "Training in Institutional 
Management," by Miss Marie Michaelis. 

Food Consumption and Female Labor from the Standpoint of Household 
Economics. (Hauswirtschaftliche Nahrungsmittelkonsumtion und Frau- 
enarbeit.) By Renetta Brandt- Wyt. Munich and Leipzic; Duncker and 
Humblot, 1912, pp. iv+123 M. 4.70. ($1.18). 

This book aims to arrange historical and statistical data regarding the consump- 
tion of food and the labor of women, not, as is usually the case, from the point 
of \'iew of the political economist or the general sociologist, but rather from that 
of the consumer. It also seeks to explain the effect which the transfer of women's 
productive activity from the household to the industrial world has upon the eco- 
nomic status of the family. The material presented deals chiefly with German 
conditions and shows a scholarly knowledge of such topics as the statistics of food 
production and household budgets, the position of women in different industries, 
the servant problem, and the question of wages. Perhaps the most interesting 
chapter for the general reader is the first which discusses consumption in families 
and groups of different stages of social development, among them the syssitia or 
common tables of Sparta and Crete, and the Zadruga, a peculiar form of com- 
munity life which stUl survives in certain Slavic villages in the Balkan regions. 

Home Economics Recipes. By Mary Beals Vail. University of California 
Syllabus Series 35, 191 2, pp. 22. $0.25. 

This syllabus, designed for class room instruction, contains recipes and direc- 
tions. It is one of a series published by the University of California for class room 
use. 

Other numbers in this series of interest to the student of home economics are: 
Syllabus No. i — Introduction to Economics — Topical Outline and References, pub- 
lished in 1905, revised, 1910; Syllabus No. 4 — Poverty, and Modem Constructive 
Philanthropy, 1906; Syllabus Xo. 10 — The Household as an Economic Agent — 
Record Sheets for Statement of Cost of Living, revised, 191 2; Sj'llabus No. 19 — 



342 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

Laboratory Instructions in Physiological Chemistrj^, 1910; Syllabus No. 24 — Hy- 
giene — The Biological Interpretation of Public Health, 191 1; Syllabus No. 29 — 
Biochemistry — Syllabus and Laboratory Directions, 191 2; Syllabus No. 33 — Notes 
on Dental Pathology and Therapeutics, 191 2. Mention may also be made of 
Syllabus No. 34 — Agricultural Education — Lesson Exercises. 

Housekeeping and Cooking Lessons for Rural Communities. By Amelia A. 
Cooke. Hampton Leaflets, 6, 1913, no. 9. pp. 38. 

General directions in the care of the house are given as well as recipes for pre- 
paring a number of dishes, the bulletin as a whole being designed for instruction 
in rural communities, where equipment is limited. 

This publication is one of a series designed especially for work among the 
negroes, and valuable not only for this but also for general use. Earlier pamphlets 
are: Hampton Leaflets, n. sen, 5, 1909, Nos. 2, Culture and Marketing of Pea- 
nuts, by J. E. Davis; 3, The House Fly as a Carrier of Disease, by W. L. Under- 
wood; 9, Hookworm Disease and the Negroes, by C. W. Stiles; 11, Oystering in 
Hampton Roads, by J. E. Davis; 12, Common Sense in Negro Schools, by G. S. 
Dickerman; 6, 1911-13, Nos. i, Sewing Lessons for Rural Schools, by Ellen Taylor; 
2, Housekeeping and Sanitation for Rural Schools, by Ellen Taylor and Sarah 
J. Walter; 3, Canning Fruits and Vegetables, by Mildred E. Moulton; 4, Manual 
Training in Rural Schools, by J. H. Jinks; 6, Correlation of Industrial and Aca- 
demic Subjects in Rural Schools, by Ella G. Agnew; 8, Community Clubs for 
Women and Girls, by Jane P. Barrett, Caroline D. Pratt, and Ida A. TourteUot; 
II, Approved Methods for Home Laundering, by Mary B. Vail. 

Food and Diet. A price list of public documents relating to food and diet, issued 
by the Scientific Bureaus of United States Government. Price List 11 (of Supt. 
of Docs.), 3d edition, Washington: Government. 1910, pp. 48. 

United States Public Documents relating to Health and Hygiene, including 
Water Pollution and Purification, Food and Diet, etc. Price List 51 (of 
Supt. of Docs.), 3d edition. Washington: Government. 1912. 

Both these pamphlets are price lists of government publications for sale by the 
Superintendent of Documents, Washington, D. C, which, like other similar lists, 
are useful as bibhographies and for the information they contain regarding the 
method of procuring government bulletins and other documents. 

English Cookery Books to the Year 1850. By Arnold Whitaker Oxford. Henry 
Frowde: Oxford University Press, London, Edinburgh, New York, Toronto, 
Melbourne, and Bombay. 1913, pp. 192. 5 shillings. 

According to a review of this book in the British Medical Journal (1913, No. 
2735i P- 1166), Englishwomen, although they have "never enjoyed much repute 
as first-class cooks, .... have always been regarded as notable house- 
wives, and even the great ladies of the past did not disdain to take an active inter- 
est in all that concerned the health and comfort of their families and dependents. 
The position of mistress of a large household was no sinecure in the good old days, 
when the chatelaine, besides superintending and taking part in the housework, 
was usually her own baker, brewer, laundress, and dressmaker, and not infre- 



1913] Books and Literature 343 

quently was called upon to act as doctor and chemist as well. Nearly every 
family possessed a number of homely remedies, many of which had been handed 
down from mother to daughter for generations, and the relation between good health 
and good food was fully recognized by everj^ good housekeeper. It is not sur- 
prising, therefore, to find that many ancient cookery books include, besides the 
usual receipts, full directions for making up different medicines and the treatment 
of a variety of diseases." 

The author gives title pages of volumes and a short synopsis of the contents, 
his list beginning with the Boke of Cookery published in 1500 and ending with 
Common Sense for Housemaids published in 1850. 

He also gives extracts on domestic economy. 

The volume is a sequel to Notes from a Collector's Catalogue, by the same 
author, which was published some time ago, and also contains interesting data 
concerning old cookery books. 

English Life and Manners in the Later Middle Ages. By A. Abram. 
London and New York: 1913, pp. xv + 352, illus. 77. 

Although the material on which the author bases his statements regarding 
English life in the thirteenth, fourteenth and fifteenth centuries has been drawn 
mainly from original documents, this book is far from being a compilation of dry 
facts. On the contrary, it presents the everyday life of the times with unusual 
vividness and discusses so many everyday subjects that one gets something 
approaching a complete picture of conditions. The headings of the chapters include 
such topics as characteristics of town life, the position of women, family life, "mete 
and drinke," the mirror of fashion, houses, public health, education, traveling, 
etc. The quaint illustrations, all of them dating from the period described, add 
greatly to one's knowledge and understanding of the work, manners, furniture, 
and clothing of the times. A list of authorities quoted is given in the appendix 
and suggests many unusual references for those interested in the history of home 
and social life. 

Household Account Books of Two Parsonages of the Leipsic District During 
the Last Century (Die Wirtschaftsbucher zweier Pfarrhauser des Leipziger 
Kreises im vorigen Jahrhundert) . By G. Brand. Leipsic: Duncker and Hum- 
bolt. 1911, pp. vii+125. 

This study is based on accoimt books kept in the families of three clergymen 
who were settled in two villages near Leipsic. One family was that of the parson 
at Beucha, the accounts of which run from 1814 to 1817; the second was at Brandis, 
1846 to 1848; and the third at Beucha, 1870 to 1879. As the families were con- 
nected and as the towns were near together, the books give an unusual chance to 
compare living conditions during three successive generations. The material has 
been carefully worked in comparable tabular form and is accompanied by a dis- 
cussion of living conditions, as revealed by the accounts and by other family data. 
From it one gains somewhat of an insight into the domestic life of German pro- 
fessional families in moderate circumstances living in the country during the 
three periods, but the book is perhaps less valuable as a contribution to social 
history than as an example of painstaking utilization of unusual statistical mate- 
rial. 



BOOKS RECEIVED. 

Nutrition and Diet: A Text-book for Secondary Schools. By Emma Conley. 
New York: American Book Company. Pp. 200 and Index. $0.60. By mail of 
the Journal, $0.65. 
Injurious Insects: How to Recognize and Control Them. By Walter C- 
O'Kane. Pp. xi + 389. Illustrated. New York; The Macmillan Company, $2- 
By mail of the Journal, $2.16. 
Successful Houses and How to Build Them. By Chas. E. WTiite. New 

York: The Macmillan Company. $2. By mail of the Journal, $2.16. 
A Book of House Plans. By W. H. Butterfield and H. W. Tuttle. New York: 
McBride, Nast and Company. Pp. 153. Illustrated. $2. By mail of the 
Journal, $2.16. 
A Book of Distinctive Interiors. By William A. VoUmer. New York: Mc- 
Bride, Nast and Company. Pp.128. Illustrated. $1. Bj' mail of the Journal, 
$1.08. 
Furnishing the Home of Good Taste. By Lucy A. Throop. New York: Mc- 
Bride, Nast and Company. Pp. iii + 219. Illustrated. $2. By mail of the 
Journal $2.16. 
Five Books on Sex Hygiene. By Dr. E. B. Lowr>^ Chicago: Forbes and Com- 
pany. 
Herself, Talks with Women Concerning Herself. Pp. 221. $1. By 

mail of the Journal, $1.10. 
Himself, Talks with Men Concerning Themselves. By E. B. Lowry 

and R. J. Lambert. Pp. 216. $1. By mail of the Journal, $1.10. 
False Modesty. Pp.110. $0.50. By mail of the Journal, $0.55. 
Truths, Talks with a Boy Concerning Himself. $0.50. By mail of the 

Journal, $0.55. 
Confidences, Talks with a Young Girl Concerning Herself. $0.50. 
By mail of the Journal, $0.55. 
Common Diseases. By Woods Hutchinson. Boston: Houghton, Mifflin Com- 
pany. $1.50. By mail of the Journal, $1.62. 
The Preliminaries. By Cornelia P. Comer. Boston: Houghton, Mifflin Com- 
pany. $1. By mail of the Journal, $1.08. 
Some Points in the Making and Judging of Bread. By Isabel Bevier. Pp. 

44. Urbana: University of Illinois, Bulletin 10 (March 17, 1913), no. 25. 
Raisins, Figs, and Other Dried Fruits and Their Use. By C. F. Lang- 
worthy. Pp. 17. From Yearbook of Department of Agriculture for 1912. (Year 
Book Separate 610) 

A Little Talk About the Baby. Pp. 14. Women's Institutes of Alberta. Pub- 
lished by Superintendent of Fairs and Institutes, Edmonton, Alberta. 

344 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 

The Ellen Richards Research Prize of $1000 offered for 1913 for the best thesis 
written by a woman, on a scientific subject embodying new observations and new 
conclusions based on independent laboratory research in bio- 
The Naples logical (including psychological), chemical or physical science, 

Table Associa- has been awarded to Miss Ida Smedley, D.Sc, 1904, Lon- 
tion For don University, 2 Carlyle Mansion, Chelsea, London, S.W., 

Promoting England. 

Laboratory A brief synopsis of Miss Smedley's training and work follows. 

Research by Studied at Newnham College, 1896-99; Central Technical 

Women. College (London Univ.) 1 899-1903; Davy-Faraday Research 

Laboratory of the Royal Institution; London School of Medi- 
cine for Women, 1899-1900, 1903-05. 

Scholarships and fellowships: Gilchrist Scholarship, 1896-99; King Edward VI 
High School Exhibition 1896-1900; Babhurst Scholar of Newnham College, 1901- 
03; Beit Medical Research Fellow 1909-1913, renewed for 1912-13. 

Original work: Eighteen papers published in the best journals. 

Prize paper written and work done in Bio-chemical Laboratory of the Lister 
Institute of Preventive Medicine from 1909-13. 

Has been Demonstrator in Chemistry, Newnham College 1903-04, and Assist- 
ant Lecturer in Chemistry in the University of Manchester from 1905 to 1909. 

The subject of the winning thesis was: "An Investigation into the Methods 
of Formation of Fatty Acids from Carbohydrates in the Organism." 

Ten theses were submitted in competition. 

The French Society of Alimentary Hygiene (the official title of which is La 
Societ6 d'Hygiene Alimentaire et d'Alimentation rationnelle de I'Homme) has re- 
cently conferred the well-merited honor of associate member- 
A. H. E. A. ship upon Dr. C. F. Langworthy, Chief of the Nutrition Inves- 

Officer Honored, tigations of the U. S. Department of Agriculture. This Society, 
which was established eight or nine years ago upon lines sug- 
gested by Prof. W. O. Atwater, the organizer of the Nutrition Investigations and 
one of the chief leaders in such work in this country, has always freely acknowl- 
edged its indebtedness to the officers and publications of the U. S. Government 
and still counts on their cooperation. It has recently been endowed and plans to 
enlarge its work; one subject to be included is work with a respiration calorimeter 
of the type first constructed under Professor Atwater's direction at Wesleyan 
University, and now installed in the laboratory of the Nutrition Investigations at 
Washington; another line of work is to be the development of international cooper- 
ation such as was first suggested by Professor Atwater. Dr. Langworthy's official 
position and especially his unusual knowledge of the men and methods in nutri- 
tion work fit him exceptionally well to aid in carrying out such plans, 

345 



346 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

A diploma has Just been awarded to Dr. Langworthy for a collection of mate- 
rial illustrating nutrition and home economics, prepared for the International 
Hygiene Exhibition, Dresden, 191 1. 

The material was brought together and arranged at the request of the Office 
of Experiment Stations and included bulletins, charts, and other printed mate- 
rial issued in connection with the Nutrition Investigations of the Office, photo- 
graphs illustrating this work, and catalogues, syllabuses, and other printed mate- 
rial, and photographs showing the character and extent of the instruction in home 
economics in the agricultural colleges and other educational institutions in the 
United States and the publications and other work of the American Home Eco- 
nomics Association. 

The spring meeting of the Connecticut Home Economics Association was held 
May 24, at the Connecticut Agricultural College, Storrs. Two new offices were 
elected to take the places of the retiring vice-president and 
Connecticut secretary. Present officers of the Association are as follows: 

Home Econom- President, Miss Mabel L. Gessner, New Haven; Vice-Presi- 
ics Association, dent. Miss Mar>^ E. Andrew, New Haven; Secretary-Treas- 
urer, Miss Emilie Haslam, Stamford; Corresponding Secretary, 
Miss Leda G. Prindle, Hartford. 

The Michigan branch of the American Home Economics Association held its 
third annual meeting May 24, at the Michigan State Normal College, Ypsilanti. 
After an inspiring address of welcome by President McKenney of 
Michigan Home the Normal College, an interesting program was carried out. In 
Economics Asso- the absence o." Miss Pope, of Manistee, her paper on "Differen- 
ciation. tiation Between Elementary and Secondar>' Instruction in Home 

Economics" was read b}^ Miss Field of Grand Rapids. Miss 
Agnes Hunt read a paper on "Experimental Problems in Foods by College Students," 
the results of work done by senior women at the Michigan Agricultural College. 
Miss Lorena Rose, dietitian at the Kalamazoo State Hospital, gave a paper on 
"Institutional Management." The Richards Memorial Fund was presented by 
Dean Gilchrist of the Michigan Agricultural College, and plans were made for a 
canvass o the state in the interests of this important work. 

The guests of honor and special speakers of the occasion were Prof. Isabel Bevier, 
of the University of Illinois, who gave an address on "Opportunities and Obliga- 
tions of Home Economics;" and Dr. J. H. Kellogg, superintendent of Battle Creek 
Sanitarium, whose subject was, " Cooperation Between Teachers of Home Econom- 
ics and the State Board of Health." 

The social features of the meeting were de'ightful, beginning on Friday with a 
dinner for the members of the executive board, an afternoon tea at th^ home of 
Miss Fuller, the president of the association, and including also the May morning 
breakfast of the Young Women's Christian Association, and the luncheon given 
by the Household Arts Department. 

The officers of the Association are: President, Miss Agnes Himt, Michigan Ag- 
ricultural College; vice-presidents. Miss Lauretta Morrisey, Grand Rapids, and 
Miss Charlotte Kecne, Detroit; secretary-treasurer, Mrs. Martha H. French, Ypsi- 
lanti; representative councillor, Miss Grace Fuller, Ypsilanti. 



1913] Xeu's from the Field 347 

The Grand Rapids Home Economics Association has taken an active part in 
the "clean-up" work in that city, in connection with other civ-ic organizations. 

The Association has also been most energetic in an effort to 
Grand Rapids secure protection for all foodstuffs, particularly for those which 
Home Econom- are not washed before being eaten, and is insisting that all 
ics Association, bakery goods and confections be protected not only in the 

stores but while in the process of deliver>'. 

The ^lassachusetts Agricultural CoUege has recently inaugurated home eco- 
nomics work in connection with the Extension Serv-ice under the direction of ^Sliss 

Laura Comstock, formerly head of the department of home 
University of economics at the University of Maine. The work which she 
Maine. is lea\-ing has groum under her direction so that now it requires 

three persons in the immediate department. ^Miss Cornelia 
Palmer, who has been for the past two years in the department, has been asked 
to take Miss Comstock's place and she will be assisted by Miss Anna Keeler and 
^liss Dorothea Beach. The department is looking forward to increasing its use- 
fulness in the state by the enlargement of its teaching force. 

Fourteen young men registered in home economics in the Domestic Science 
Department at Cornell University during the last school year. The course for men 
was identical with the survey course given to the girls taking the 
Cornell arts course who are not specializing in home economics, but 

University. who ■5\ish enough time in this work to make them better ac- 

quainted vdth their possible domestic conditions. The first 
request for such instructions came from forestry students who said they would 
have something to do with prox-iding meals for large numbers. Therefore a course 
was offered with the result that fourteen of the men students have taken it this 
year. They had two lectures and one laboratory period per week. Their instruc- 
tor says that they gave good attention and were much interested in the course. 
They gave especial attention to camp cookery. They did not take the sanitation 
and household management which is given to the girls in the same course, although 
another year this work will be open to them if they desire it. 

A Conference and Exhibition on Work and Play for Children will be held by 
the Federation for Child Study at 2 W. 64th Street, New York City, Wednesday, 

November 19, to Saturday, November 22, 1913, inclusive. 
Conference on The program includes the names of Dr. FelLx Adler, leader of 
Work and Play the Society for Ethical Culture, New York City; Mr. Chas. R. 
for Children. Prosser, Secretary, Society for Promotion of Industrial Education; 

Mr. Austin T. Levy, manufacturer of woolen goods in Rhode 
Island; Dr. Leonard P. Ayers, director of the Department of Education, The Sage 
Foundation; Prof. WiUiam Noyes, Teachers College, Columbia University; Prof. 
Frederick G. Ronser, Teachers College, Columbia Universit)', and president of the 
Vocational Guidance Association of New York; Prof. O. B. Martin, in charge of 
Boys and Girls Clubs, Department of Agriculture, Washington; !Mr. Owen Lovejoy, 
of the National Child Labor Committee, New York; Miss .Vlice Barrows, director 
Vocational Education Survey of the Public Education Association of New York 
City; Miss Jane Day, Public Education Association, New York; Mr. Frederick W. 
EUis, director of Social Research of the New York Neurological Institute. There 



348 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

will also be Demonstrations of children's songs, games, and dances that relate to 
industry or grew out of it, and exhibits of toys and musical instruments. 

Through the insistance of the Ohio Farm Women's Clubs, and Mrs. Foulke 
and Miss Mason of The Ohio Farmer, the following sets, comprising a total of 
465 books, have recently been added to the traveling library 
Home Econom- department of the Ohio State Library, for the use of clubs and 
ics Books in women generally over the state. Food and Diet, Alice P. Nor- 

Ohio Traveling ton; Principles of Cooker}', Anna Barrows; The House, Isabel 
Library. Bevier; Household Bacteriology, Elliott; Textiles and Cloth- 

ing, Watson; Care of Children, Dr. Cotton; Household Man- 
agement, Terrill; Home Care of the Sick, Pope; Chemistry of the Household, 
Dodd; Furnishing a Modest Home, Daniels; Bacteria, Yeasts and Molds, H. W. 
Conn; Human Foods, Prof. H. Snyder; Domestic Service, Lucy M. Salmon; House- 
hold Economics, Helen Campbell; Food and Dietetics, Dr. Robert Hutchinson; 
How to Keep Household Accounts, Haskins; Progress in the Household, Lucy 
M. Salmon; Chemistry of Cooking and Cleaning, Ellen H. Richards; Cost of 
Shelter, EUen H. Richards; Cost of Food, Ellen H. Richards; Cost of Cleanness, 
EUen H. Richards; Woman Who Spends, B. J. Richardson; Cost of Living, Ellen 
H. Richards; Drinking Water and Ice Supply, T. M. Prudden; Domestic Water 
Supplies for the Farm, Fuller; Food and Food Adulterations, Dr. H. W. Wiley; 
Chemistry of Daily Life, Lasser and Conn; Human Nutrition, Jordan; Wliat One 
Woman has Done for Farm Women, Jennie BueU. 

At a recent meeting of the General Education Board in addition to the appro- 
priations to colleges the following appropriations were made: For demonstration 
work in agriculture in the Southern States (including the boys' 
Appropriations com club work), $180,000; for the promotion of girls' canning 
of the General and poultry clubs throughout the South, $75,000; for agricul- 
Education tural demonstration work in five coimties of Maine, $14,500; 

Board. for beginning agricultural demonstration work in New Hamp- 

shire, $7500; for professors of secondary education in the several 
state universities of the Southern states, $30,550; for state supervisiors of negro 
schools in several Southern States, $20,000; to three schools for negroes, $25,000. 

A department of domestic science and art has recently been established at the 
convent school for the higher education of women, St.-Mary-of-the-Woods, Indiana. 
The large number of students who have taken up this work 
St.-Mary-of- shows clearly that the new course was desired. The work is 
the-Woods, in charge of Miss Rose Trimpay. There are general courses, 

Indiana. advanced courses in invalid cookery and in infant diet, and a 

special course in serving. Laboratory work and class room work 
have their place in the curriculum. 

"The theory and practice are closely interwoven throughout the entire course. 
The work is performed in an ideal kitchen laboratory, equipped with all the appli- 
ances necessary to perfect results." 

Courses in sewing, which include designing and the making of entire outfits 
of wearing apparel, etc., form a part of the household economics work. 



1 9 13] News from the Field 349 

In accordance with plans devised by Jeanette C. Van Dujti, lecturer and in- 
structor in household science, who received much of her training at [Nlacdonald 
College, Quebec, a household science division has been organ- 
Household Sci- ized as a part of the work of the Department of Agriculture 
ence in South of South Africa. Its purpose is to attend to inquiries regard- 
Africa, ing household matters and to disseminate information by means 
of lectures and demonstrations, "with the object of making 
known the benefits to be derived from the study of this subject, as well as the 
importance of j^oung women being trained along this line." It is also the purpose 
of the diNision to encourage women's organizations and to provide as a part of 
its equipment standard works, periodicals, and magazines, a. well as various 
labor-saving appliances. 

A Household Science Congress was organized in conjunction with the Dry 
Farming Congress, October 19-20, 1911, and was the first meeting of its kind held 
in South Africa. It proved to be a great success and was weU attended by both 
town and coimtry women. According to a report of the work, "some very val- 
uable papers were read and instructive lectures delivered on subjects pertaining 
to the home by various delegates from different parts of the Union, while dis- 
cussions followed after each paper in which everyone was invited to take part. 
The keen interest and enthusiasm displayed by the women at the Congress were 
indeed evidence of their great appreciation of this new movement, .... 
[Miss Van Dujti feels] convinced that the benefits which will accrue from such an 
organization wiU be manifold not alone to the indi\aduals, but to the whole coimtry. 
It is, therefore, very encouraging to note that the sum of £50 has been placed 
on the estimates for the purpose of carrying on this work 

"It is most gratifying how rapidly this movement has spread throughout the 
coimtry, and the support given by the people has been most encouraging. Every- 
one is strongly impressed with the urgent need that some provision be made for 
the training of girls in household matters, and daily we receive inquiries regarding 
the proposed School of Household Science." jVIiss Van Duyn states "that the 
Household Science Committee have proved themselves most earnest and ardent 
workers, and have spared no efforts in trying to push the scheme ahead. The 
women of South Africa are beginning to realize the importance of this Science in 
the home, and sooner or later such an Institution wiU inevitably have to be estab- 
lished. That this project may materialize in the near future is sincerely to be 
hoped." 

The Beta Chapter of Omicron Nu was installed at the New York State Normal 
College the last of March. 

A month later Gamma Chapter was installed a' the Iowa 
The Honorary State College of Agriculture and Mechanical Arts. This is the 
Home Econom- largest of the three chapters, and consists of eight faculty 
ics Society: and twenty student members. 

Omicron Nu. Alpha Chapter, which was organized at Michigan Agricul- 

lural College a year ago with a charter membership of seven- 
teen, has at present twenty active members, since those of the Class of 191 2 have 
left college. The object of the so:iety being to promote home economics and 
scholarly work among its students, those only who maintain high scholarship and 
show promise of future achievement are eligible to membership. 



THE ANNUAL MEETING OF THE AMERICAN HOME 

ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION, CORNELL UNIVERSITY. 

ITHACA, N. Y., JUNE 27-JULY 4, 1913. 

The sixth annual meeting of the American Home Economics Asso- 
ciation was held at Cornell University, Ithaca, N. Y., Friday, June 
27, to Friday, July 4, 19 13, inclusive. This was the first summer 
meeting of the Association and therefore the first meeting of such 
length. 

The meeting was the largest and the most enthusiastic ever held 
by the Association. The unlimited hospitaHty of the Home Eco- 
nomics Department of Cornell gave the note for the whole confer- 
ence. The sessions were held in the Assembly Hall of the beautiful 
new Home Economics Building, the xdsitors ate in the cafeteria of 
the same building, and the majority of them were lodged at Sage 
College. The fact that for the first time the Administration Section 
forsook the beauties of Lake Placid to meet with the Association, 
made the meeting of wider interest and richer content. 

The weather was as warm as the Cornell welcome, but despite the 
heat, the attendance at meetings was uniformly good. It ran as 
follows: First session, 112; second session, 181; third session, 146; 
(reception and Sunday meeting not counted); fourth session, 208; 
fifth session, 177; sixth session, 186; seventh session, 189; eighth 
session, 192; ninth session (first of Institution Economics), 190; tenth 
session, 105; eleventh session, 150; twelfth session, 93. The official 
registration was 243, but of course this does not show everyone in 
attendance. An analysis of the registration does, however, show 
some interesting facts. There were representatives from thirty of 
the states of the United States, the District of Columbia, from the 
provinces of Canada, and from France, Scotland and Russia. The 
local attendance was as always largest. New York showing 97. Mas- 
sachusetts came next with 22, Pennsylvania showed 20, Illinois 13, 
Michigan 11, Indiana 6, Iowa 6, Connecticut 5. There were 9 from 
Canada and 3 from foreign countries. 

The sessions were so arranged that no day held more than two, 
and they rarely exceeded the planned two hours. This gave ample 
opportunity for private conferences, and for the meetings of groups 

350 



1913] Sixth Annual Meeting of the Association 351 

ha\'ing special interests. Among the groups that met in this way- 
were the Home Economics Section of the National Education Asso- 
ciation Committee on the Reorganization of Secondary Education, 
the teachers in elementary schools, rural extension workers, research 
workers, and women's club workers. Each of these groups held 
more than one meeting, and there was one in session on Friday after- 
noon, July 4, when the Association meetings had been formally closed. 
The meeting of special groups is so valuable a part of such a con- 
ference that undoubtedly more and more provision will be made for 
their sessions. 

The alumni of many schools of home economics — Chicago, Drexel, 
Mechanics, Pratt, Simmons, Teachers College — lunched together by 
special arrangement. The roof garden over the cafeteria was an ideal 
meeting place in the late afternoon and evening. The Frigga Fylge, 
the woman's club of the School of Agriculture, added much to the 
pleasure of the American Home Economics Association, as well as 
something to the building fund of their Recreation Hall, by serving 
tea and ices afternoon and evening. 

The exhibits included the new collection of portraits of men and 
women who have contributed to home economics, made for the Asso- 
ciation by Dr. C. F. Langworthy; an exhibition of some of the exten- 
sion work of Cornell University, material from the U. S. Department 
of Agriculture; and some design and handwork from Pratt Institute. 
There was also a full exhibition of the printed matter of the Associa- 
tion and that sold by it, in the office of the Journal of Home Eco- 
nomics. The new "farm car" of Cornell was on exhibition not far 
away. 

Special trips were arranged by land and water, so that everyone 
had the opportunity to see something of the beauties of Ithaca and 
its surroundings. There were walks as early as 6.30 a.m., a lake 
trip, a trip to the George Junior Republic, and many other pleasures. 

The meeting as a whole showed a breadth of interest and a unity 
of spirit remarkable in any Association. 

Proceedings of the Meeting. 

Friday, June 27, 2 p.m. The President, Miss Sarah Louise Arnold, 
presided, and opened the session with a few welcoming words. The 
following reports were then presented: 



252 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

Report of the Secretary January i to June 27, 191 3: The time which this report 
covers being but six months, and those the six months before an annual meeting, 
the greater part of the activities of the Secretary have concerned that meeting. 
It is therefore made the first subject in this report. 

Sixth annual meeting. — For the first time the meeting of the whole Association 
is held in the summer and in the country, since one may justly term the Cornell 
campus country. Heretofore, the American Home Economics Association has met 
during the Christmas holidays, in a city, with crowded sessions and with no oppor- 
tunity for leisurely private conferences. The Lake Placid Conference had offered 
all the delights of one of the most beautiful places in the coimtry, and the infor- 
mal conferences combined with the formal meetings, laid the firm foundation of 
the home economics movement. The Administration Section has continued its 
meetings there, but the whole Association has never had such a meeting. So this 
present meeting was planned to be a leisurely one, that might be justly considered 
a holiday as well as a professional duty. There are eight days of meetings, and 
no more than two general sessions in one day. Each session is planned to last 
two hours, allowing time for discussion. All members are urged to call private 
conferences as they wish, in the free mornings or afternoons, and the Secretary 
will arrange for a room for any such conference. It is hoped that this plan will 
meet the approval of those in attendance. The Council will be very glad to 
receive, through any of its members, expressions of opinion regarding the plan, 
whether favorable or unfavorable. 

One word should be added about the program. Less time than usual is given 
to technical papers in home economics and more to the broader relations and cor- 
relations of the work. It has seemed wise to the Program Committee, at this 
time when the home economics movement is growing with imprecedented rapidity, 
to bring out the fact that the interests of the family and the home are common 
to every class and type, and that those who are directing the "art of right living" 
can do so effectively only when their vision includes the widest reaches of human 
life. 

One further word about the hospitality we are receiving. The Cornell Depart- 
ment of Home Economics, which to all of us means Miss Van Rensselaer and Miss 
Rose, have taken much of the burden of the meeting, and Cornell University has 
offered its buildings, printed our program, and generally done much for us. 

Affiliated societies. — The following societies, whose interests coincide in some 
points with those of the American Home Economics Association, were asked to 
send representatives to this meeting: American Kindergarten Association, Ameri- 
can Library Association, Association of Collegiate Alumnae, American Association 
for the Study and Prevention of Infant Mortality, National Congress of Mothers, 
National Association for the Study and Prevention of Tuberculosis, National Child 
Labor Committee, National Conference of Charities and Correction, National 
Consumer's League, National Grange, National Housing Association, National 
Society for the Promotion of Industrial Education, General Education Board, 
General Federation of Women's Clubs, National Kindergarten Association, Effi- 
ciency Society. 

The secretaries of the following societies replied cordially, but were unable to 
send representatives: General Education Board, National Housing Association, 
Eflaciency Society. 



1913] Sixth Annual Meeting of the Association 353 

The following are to be represented at this meeting by delegates as named: 
National Society for the Promotion of Industrial Education, IMr. Dexter S. Kim- 
ball, of Cornell University; American Association for the Studj' and Prevention 
of Infant Mortality, Miss M. Adelaide Nutting, of Teachers College, Columbia 
University; Association of Collegiate Alumnae, Mrs. Elizabeth L. Clarke, of Wil- 
liamstown, Mass. 

The Efficiency Society asks that the aimoimcement be made that their member- 
ship is now open to women. If anyone who is interested will leave his or her name 
at the registration desk, information will be sent later. 

The Girls' Friendly Society of America asks the cooperation of this Association 
in its work for girls, and this will be given as asked in detail. The Association 
has also been asked to assist the Y. W. C. A. in reorganizing their work in home 
economics. 

Letters urging the sending of delegates were also sent to eighty-four institu- 
tions of college grade where home economics is taught. 

National Education Association. — The Association has cooperated with the Man- 
ual Training Section of the National Education Association in the preparation of 
a home economics meeting at their Salt Lake City meeting in July. Several 
members of this Association will attend as delegates. 

The American Home Economics Association will be represented at the Inter- 
national Congress of School Hygiene, to be held at Buffalo in August, by Miss 
Mary E. L. Small, supervisor in the Buffalo public schools, and Miss Helen Hol- 
lister, of Mechanics Institute. It was the plan that our president, Miss Arnold, 
should in person present a paper at the American Library Association Conference, 
now in session at Kaaterskill, on the aid the public library may give the house- 
keeper. Miss Arnold was detained at Simmons, but wrote fully regarding the 
subject to the President of the American Library Association. 

Bulletin. — The Bulletin is the official means of commimication with all members, 
and it is hoped that every member will soon acquire the habit of reading every 
word of each number with care. 

There is no question of the importance of the present moment in the home 
economics movement. The Council of your Association is giving time and thought 
to many important problems. Their work is of little avail without the cooper- 
ation of every member, and the last word of this year's Secretary's report shall 
be — "Cooperate." 

Isabel Ely Lord. 



354 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

Report of the Treasurer, January i to June i8, igij, Inclusive. 

STATEMENT OF RECEIPTS AXD DISBURSEMENTS. 

Receipts. Expenditures. Balance. 

Association $729.21 $550.12 $179.09 

Journal 2,964.47 1,951.49 1,012.98 

Administration Section 110.76 6.00 104.76 

Ellen H. Richards Memorial Fund 68.26 32.91 35-35 

Permanent Association Fimd 150 . 00 150 . 00 



)4,o22.7o $2,540.52 $1,482.18 
2,540.52 



Balance, Cash on hand $1,482 . 18 

Balance, Interest-bearing a/c, Harford Nat. Bk., Bel Air, Md $500.00 

Balance, Check a/c, Harford Nat. Bk., Bel Air, Md 313 • 78 



$813.78 
Balance, Second Nat. Bk., Washington, D. C 518 . 40 



?i,332.i8 



Permanent Association Fund, Emigrant Indust. Sav. Bk., (New York 

City) 150.00 



Total Cash on hand $1,482 . 18 

ASSOCIATION. 

Receipts: 

Balance from 1913 $11.71 

Dues collected 71 7 50 $729.21 



Expettditures: 

Meetings $7430 

Managing Editor's oflSce, 1/5 199 .90 

Bulletins 146.66 

Officers' expenses 129.26 550.12 



Balance $1 79 .09 

JOURNAL. 

Receipts: 

Balance from 1912 $556 . 69 

Reprints 1 73 • 93 

Subscriptions 2,043 • ^5 

Advertising 190 . 00 

Forward $2,964.47 



1913] Sixth Annual Meeting of the Association 355 

Journal Receipts, forward $2,964.47 

Expenditures: 

Journal printing $982 . 00 

Editor's office 70 . 25 

Managing Editor's office, 4/5 799 .60 

Miscellaneous 9964 1,951 49 

Balance $1,012 .98 

ADMINISTRATION SECTION. 

Budget allowance $40 . 00 

Receipts 70.76 $110.76 

Expenditures 6 . 00 

Balance $104. 76 

ELLEN H. RICHARDS MEMORIAL FUND. 

Receipts: 

Contributions $26 . 65 

Books sold 18.51 

Slides rented 2 . 76 

Syllabus, Sold $53 .09 

Cost 32.75 20.34 $68.26 

Expenditures: 

General 32.91 

Balance $35-35 

PERMANENT ASSOCIATION FUND. 

Balance from 1912 $150.00 

No expenditures 

Balance $150.00 

ASSETS AND LIABILITIES. 

Total Cash on hand $1,482 . 18 

Assets: 

Unpaid dues $78 . 00 

Unpaid subscriptions 638.00 $716.00 

Liabilities: {unpaid bills in hand) 

Williams & Wilkins Co., June Journal $398.08 

Charles H. Wibon, rent and tele- 
phoning 3.75 

Wm. H. Pierce & Co., picture 4 . 50 

Teachers College, lantern shdes 10.80 

\\'. Roe, express .60 

W. Roe, express 1.72 419.45 

296 55 

Total assets $1,778.73 

C. F. Langworthy. 



356 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

Nominating Committee: The Nominating Committee recommends the election 
of the following officers for the year 19 14: 

President, Sarah Louise Arnold, Dean, Simmons College, Boston, Mass. 

Vice-Presidents, Martha Van Rensselaer, Cornell University, Ithaca, N. Y.; 
Abby L. Marlatt, University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wis.; Benjamin R. Andrews, 
Teachers College, New York City. 

Secretary, Isabel Ely Lord, Pratt Institute, Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Treasurer, C. F. Langworthy, 1604 Seventeenth St., Washington, D. C. 

For members of the Council, to serve five years: Mrs. Mary Hinman Abel, Mrs. 
Alice P. Norton, Miss EUen C. Sabin, Dr. Henry C. Sherman, Prof. William Morse 
Cole. 

Nominating Committee, to serve five years: Miss Bertha N. Terrill. 

L. A. NiCHOLASS, 

for the Committee. 

Syllabus Committee: Miss Bevier, the Chairman of the Si^Uabus Committee, is 
helping on the home economics work in California this summer, and has asked 
me to act in her place and make a report of the results accomplished. The most 
important thing that the Syllabus Committee has to report is something which 
you all know, namely, that the Syllabus has been completed and printed, 
and is now ready for your use and criticism. The latter the Committee particu- 
larly solicits in order that the second edition, which we confidently expect will 
be required, may be an improvement on the first. 

It is needless to say that it is a difl&cult thing to gather material for such a pro- 
ject and classify, digest, and edit it; and no one realizes more than the Committee 
that the work so far done does not represent the ideal. And yet we believe that 
nothing has been brought together before in print, in which so many things re- 
lated to home economics are classified in logical order. It seems certain that 
out of the material presented, it will be possible to select more intelligently that 
which is needed for courses of instruction suited to the needs of any particular 
institution, for a classified survey of a whole field surely means that one can the 
more readily choose the part which best meets his requirements. 

The Committee realizes that, as a whole, the work it undertook is only begun; 
and it hopes that the Association will continue it with power to work on the gen- 
eral project, and that the members of the Association will cooperate and aid the 
work by suggestions and in other ways. 

One thing has been very pleasant about this Syllabus work, and that is the 
ready response to requests for assistance. Portions of the Sj'llabus have been 
submitted, as the work progressed, to a large number of persons and their sug- 
gestions and criticism requested. It is much harder to give constructive than 
destructive criticism; it is easy to find flaws and difficult to carefully revise and 
edit. Yet many took the time and trouble to do this; and instead of tearing 
down, as they could so easily have done, they strengthened and built anew. From 
several members came suggestions so valuable and so important that without 
them the Syllabus would have lacked much of what it now contains. The Com- 
mittee is more grateful than it can say to all who made its task easier and the 
result better. 



1913] Sixth Annual Meeting of the Association 357 

You will recall that before the Syllabus was begun, definitions of fundamental 
terms were proposed and adopted by the Association. These terms included 
"home economics," "food," "clothing," "shelter," and "home and institution 
management." The material included in the Syllabus has been gathered together 
and classified around these terms and their logical subdivisions. 

Now, the question is, WTiat shall we do next to carry the project further? In 
response to many requests for them, a nmnber of suggestions have come. Several 
members are of the opinion that we should now do our best to collect bibliograph- 
ical data regarding each one of the topics included in the Syllabus, taking the 
more important topics first. It may not be out of place to say that one of our 
members is now working on a book which, if published, as we all hope it will be, 
will include a good bibliography, as well as an exhaustive discussion of the origin 
and development of our culinary and table customs. This is one step, and a long 
one, in the right direction. The next thing after bibliographical work is to write 
a monograph of everj' one of the topics the Syllabus contains. That is an ideal 
that we think we may hold before us, though it does represent a vast amount of 
work. One of the Committee made the suggestion that we should at once en- 
deavor, from the material we have brought together, to outline courses of instruc- 
tion suited to various needs. This, too, would be valuable work. If it were done, 
it would enable us to grant a request such as was made the other day for an out- 
line of a course of instruction suited to rural school work in home economics in 
the South — a course not only for the five or six months of the school year, but 
for home work for the rest of the year as well. This would mean a program of 
work for every day in the month and every month in the year which could be 
put into the hands of a very large number of teachers in rural schools in the South 
and which would, with modifications to suit local conditions, be useful elsewhere. 
It was necessary to say that owing to lack of opportunity and funds, no way seemed 
clear to do this work, valuable as it would be. It would seem that the American 
Home Economics Association could take it up if it were subsidized, and let us 
hope that funds may sometime come for such work. 

All of the projects suggested seem to the Committee to be good and it remains 
for the .\ssociation to decide what it can do and how it can do it. 

The easiest of these projects is the bibliographical work. It would be a simple 
matter, when anyone finds an article which is valuable, on a home economics 
topic, to make a complete bibliographical reference to it and send it to the chair- 
man or to the secretary of the Syllabus Committee. Duplicates could be weeded 
out and the rest retained and classified. It is surprising how a bibliography grows. 
A bibliography of flour and bread, begun several years ago, now contains a thou- 
sand or more entries. It has grown quite largely from the titles found in general 
work with books and periodicals. This bibliography is neither complete nor well 
balanced; but it would serve the Committee as a basis for work on bread and 
breadstuffs. We have also as a part of our nutrition work in the Office of Experi- 
ment Stations, a similar bibliography of general home economics topics and par- 
ticularly of nutrition, and have now from 3 to 4 thousand entries. A large amount 
of this material represents older rather than recent work. The pages of the Ex- 
periment Station Record would furnish thousands of additional nutrition titles, 
and this periodical is carefuUy and fully inde.xed. Such material, it is needless 
to say, is accessible to the Committee or to the individual members, if they wish 
to use it for a bibliographical project. A plea for a complete bibliographical 



358 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

reference may not be out of place here. Of course this is something which is, 
in part at least, a matter of opinion. Some are inclined to believe that in citing 
from a periodical or a book, the best plan is to use a form of abbreviations for 
titles, consisting of initial letters, as "J. A. C. S." {Journal of the American Chem- 
ical Society). Obviously this necessitates the continual use of a code and this is 
too troublesome to make it satisfactory. Self-evident abbreviations are much 
more satisfactory. "Jour. Amer. Chem. Soc." is plain to anyone who knows 
English, and one who did not could make a better guess than he could from the 
letters only. Some believe that in citing a reference, it is enough to giv'e the 
year of publication and page; others, that only the volume of the periodical should 
be given; some believe in the use of Roman and others of Arabic figures to desig- 
nate the volumes; and so it goes with each detail. All this ground was gone over 
very carefully in preparation for making the Index Catalogue of the Library of 
the Surgeon General's Office, one of the finest and most extended works of refer- 
ence which we possess — a mine of information for the student of nutrition and 
dietetics, as well as the student of medicine. Dr. Billings and his associates can- 
vassed the whole situation, and as a result prepared a system which consists of 
a self-e.xplanatory abbreviated title with the year, volume, number, and pages; 
these data following the full title of the article and the author's name. They also 
prepared and published a very complete volume of titles and their abbreviations. 
This collection of titles covers almost all possible words in many languages which 
would be used in the titles of periodicals pertaining to medicine or related sciences. 
When the Experiment Station Record was started, it (unconsciously, perhaps, 
at first) followed very much the same system. Later an attempt was made to 
follow it more carefully, and abbreviations for a very large number of agricultural 
and related titles were prepared. The system was simplified by leaving out of 
the reference, articles, conjunctions, and prepositions, where possible — a change 
which seems permissible. The abbreviated title of the journal is followed by the 
volume number, year of publication (in parentheses), serial number, and pages 
covered; e.g., "The Free Energy of Chemical Substances," by G. N. Lewis {Jour. 
Amer. Chem. Soc, 35 (1913), No. i, pp. 1-30). Besides the publication noted, 
the Index Medicus, the nutrition publications and other publications of the Office 
of Experiment Stations, and many others (surely the largest group in the United 
States doing such work with anything like uniformity) use this or practically the 
same system. In connection with home economics bibhographical work in our 
Journal and other publications, we recommend that this system be adopted. Noth- 
ing could be more simple. You have it all there, and there is a minimum chance 
for confusion or error. 

This matter is mentioned here because it is of special importance if we are to 
undertake extended work in bibliography. It also has a direct relation to our 
Journal work and if the system were followed by all our contributors, it would 
save the editors a tremendous amount of work. 

This is all that needs to be said about the work of the Syllabus Committee at 
this time. We leave to you the problem of determining the lines of work to be 
followed. The Committee recommends the sort of work we have mentioned, 
and under any circumstances, it will work to the best of its ability, counting on 
your help. We believe that the most satisfactory method of continuing the work 
is by means of collecting bibliographical data for the various topics contained in 
the Syllabus, and we also recommend monographs on these topics, and to those 



1913] Sixth Annual Meeting of the Association 359 

especially interested in the educational side of home economics, the compiling 
of outlines for courses of instruction. C. F. Langworthy, 

Acting Chairman. 

Committee on Textiles: No report presented. Miss Agnes H. Craig, Chairman. 

Committee an Publicity: No report, except one of progress. IMr. Maurice Le- 
Bosquet, Chairman. 

Committee on Institution Economics Section: WTien the Lake Placid conference 
on home economics was organized into a national association, we thought our 
work at Lake Placid, in this special line, was finished. But after only one year's 
interval, at the urgent request of Miss Nutting of Teachers College, a section for 
the study of the administration of large numbers met at the Club. 

Institution economics includes practically ever>'thing in home economics and 
a good deal besides, since the larger the numbers to be cared for, the more com- 
plex the work, the greater is the need for details, system and standards. For 
three years we have been feeling our way, realizing there was a great mass of 
much needed pioneer work before us and not satisfied with the progress made. 
One hopeful sign has been the attendance of men who are in charge of large insti- 
tutions where several thousand inmates are cared for, who have showTi much 
interest and eagerness for help, especially in the problems of food, the methods 
of specifjdng, contracting, storing, distributing, consuming and accounting of 
supplies. In the preparation and serving of food there is equal need of standards 
and written practice instructions. 

The demand for practical knowledge on questions of shelter and construction 
is illustrated in the experience of an enterprising hotel manager from the northern 
part of the state, who started out with his architect and sister, a practical house- 
keeper, to visit the leading hotels in the state with a view to incorporating their 
best features in the new house he was planning to build. In one large hotel very 
recently completed, which stands for the most modem improvements and methods, 
he found that the architect had allowed a certain amount of space for the kitchen 
which he thought would be ample, without regard to the placing of equipment or 
any knowledge of its relative arrangement for right and left service. The result 
was that there were three places where the paths of waiters crossed and the crash 
of colliding trays was a common incident, causing constant friction and waste 
with demoralizing effects throughout the service. 

Many subjects have been touched upon in the three section meetings already 
held; nomenclature, the training and the detail work of the dietitian in relation 
to both hospital needs and school lunch rooms, laundry management, linen sup- 
plies, organization of service and time studies, floor materials, decoration, accounts 
and records with the general financial management of institutions and the use of 
graphic charts, per capita costs, the control of insect pests, marketing and cost 
of living, the training for institution management and practice fields for experi- 
ence after theoretical training has been received. 

There is a wide field for that kind of genius which has been defined as "an 
infinite capacity for taking pains," in all this work and the adoption of the 
principles of scientific management in their higher ethical form, offers our best 
hope of continued progress. Annie Dewey, 

Honorary Chairman. 



360 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

Committee on Homemakers' Section (read by the Secretary) : A year ago I was 
asked to act as chairman of a Committee on the Homemakers' Section of the 
American Home Economics Association and began to work with the idea of divid- 
ing the country into sections, and of holding meetings in various localities for 
the presentation of papers and for discussions. My letters to members in different 
parts of the country whose names were given me, brought either a negative re- 
sponse or the reply that the work should be undertaken later. In the fall a con- 
ference was organized in Chicago which was attended by very few except those 
officers of the Association who were already interested in the project. 

After much consideration and consultation with others I have to recommend 
that the Committee on the Homemakers' Section undertake only one thing at a 
time. The first undertaking which seems to be feasible is to make a department 
in the Journal of Home Economics. The material required for it should be 
supplied by articles and information sent to the central committee formed of mem- 
bers in different localities and cities. These articles could then be edited by the 
Committee and forwarded to the editor of the Journal of Home Economics 
to be edited and used at her discretion, and articles or information sent in which 
did not seem suitable for the Journal could be used by the Committee at its 
discretion in the daily press or wherever else it would awaken interest in our move- 
ment or spread knowledge of our methods. 

We suggest a department in the Journal of Home Economics containing three 
short articles under three general headings — namely, 

1. Economics of the Home 

Home Making a Vocation 
Labor in the Home 
Cost of Living 

2. Efficiency in the Home 

The Economic Value of Efficiency in the Home 
Labor Saving Methods and Devices 
Hygiene and Home Life 
Home Management 

3. Buying for the Home 

Ejiowledge of Textiles — their Quality and History 
Knowledge of Foods — their Quality and History 
Knowledge of Markets and Marketing 
Needs of the Consumer 

What is an economic investment in household equipment and what is the 
limit beyond which such investment becomes a wasteful tying up of 
income? 
The department should be worked out to emphasize the idea of developing the 
possibilities of home-making as a vocation through training and education and 
then insisting upon the recognition of the economic value of such knowledge and 
training; in other words, contributing to the discussion of standards in home- 
making which will lead to its recognition as a vocation. 

We must insure greater publicity in order to make the work of this Association 
known more widely and bring together the home makers already interested but 
who are widely scattered, and not organized for mutually helpful work. 

This will acquaint us with those interested in our subject in different parts of 
the country, and the next step — that of conferences — will follow. The best time 



19 13] Sixth Annual Meeting of the Association 361 

for conferences for the home maker is not at the time which is convenient for 
professional workers, a fact which must be considered. We should plan for a 
conference at Chicago one year from this month at the time of the Biennial Meet- 
ing of the Federation of Women's Clubs. 

We have a group of Home-Makers in Washington who are ready to cooperate 
with us, a movement in New York undertaken by Mrs. Shailer, which however 
cannot really take form until fall, and the same condition existing in Chicago. 
These we can regard as evidences of what may be accomplished elsewhere. 

If the conference approves we will put our plans in action. 

Bonnie W. Evans (Mrs. Ljiiden Evans), 

Chairm^in. 

Committee on International Congress on Home Economics, Ghent, Belgium, June, 
J913: As reported by this Committee at the meeting in December, the main work 
of the Committee has been to get papers to send to the Congress. There w£is 
not time to get these papers to Ghent for the preliminar>' proceedings, but they 
will be presented at the Congress. The schedule of papers planned is as follows, 
the name of the author being given where it was found possible to obtain a paper: 
"Household Science in Elementary Schools," Miss Irene McDermott, Pittsburgh; 
"Household Science in Secondary Schools," Miss Florence Willard and Miss 
Muriel Willard, Washington Ir\-ing High School, New York; "Home Economics 
in Institutions for Higher Learning," Miss Abby L. Marlatt, University of Wis- 
consin; "Professional Education in Household Arts," not secured; "Professional 
Education in Household Science," Miss Charlotte Ebbets, Simmons College; 'Home 
Use Classes in Cities," ^Irs. Margaret Stannard, Garland School of Homemaking; 
"Extension Work for Country Districts," Miss Martha Van Rensselaer, Cornell 
University; "Housekeeping Centers in Settlements and Public Schools," Miss 
Mabel H. Kittredge, Association of Housekeeping Centers, New York; "Home 
Economics for Men," Dr. C. F. Langworthy, United States Department of Agri- 
culture; "The Basic Work in Pure Science, in Preparing Teachers," Dr. J. S. 
Snell, Macdonald College, Quebec; "The Basic Work in Art, in Preparing Teach- 
ers," Miss Mary J. Quinn, Pratt Institute; "The Basic Work in Economics," 
not secured; "The Reasons for Including Home Economics in Education of Girls," 
Miss Isabel Bevier, University of Illinois; "The Vocational and Cultural Value of 
Domestic Science," Miss Marion Talbot, University of Chicago; "The Help the 
Home Can Give the School," not secured. 

The following papers were obtained, as some compensation for the gaps in the 
schedule: "A Library of Social E.xperiment," Mrs. Mary Hinman Abel, Editor, 
JouRNALof Home Economics; "A Permanent Exhibit of Home Economics," Mrs. 
Mary Hinman Abel, Editor, Journal of Home Economics; "Home Economics 
in a High School," Miss Lillie C. Smith, Brookline, Mass. 

The following members of the Association, who are planning to attend the Ghent 
Congress, have been asked to serve as the official delegates of the American Home 
Economics Association: Miss Anna M. Cooley, Teachers College, Columbia Uni- 
versity; Mrs. Charlotte Ware, Warelands Dairy School, Highland Lake, Norfolk, 
Massachusetts; Miss Louise Stanley, University of Missouri; Dr. A. C. True, 
United States Department of Agriculture. 



362 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

The United States Commissioner of Education wrote asking the name of some 
one who would attend as a representative from the United States, and the names 
of the American Home Economics Association delegates were sent him. 

It is to be regretted that our ov\ti annual meeting comes too near the time of 
the Ghent Congress to permit members to attend both, but the American work 
will be much more largely represented at this meeting than it ever has been before 
on the other side of the Atlantic. 

Isabel Ely Lord, 

Chairmmi. 

Committee on Legislation (report presented by Dr. B. R. Andrews): The Com- 
mittee on Legislation offers the following resolutions with regard to federal legis- 
lation, and the following statement as to state legislation: 

Resolved, That the American Home Economics Association express its approval 
of the principle of federal aid in education and especially makes the following recom- 
mendations : 

First, That the adoption of Senate Joint Resolution 5 is urged, providing for 
a commission to examine into a plan for national aid for vocational education, 
in order that there may be a wise investigation of the relation of the federal go\^- 
emment to the various city and state systems of vocational education and the 
possibility of cooperation between the federal government and local government. 

Second, That the Lever-Smith bill for extension education (House of Repre- 
sentatives No. 1692 and Senate No. 46) providing for federal aid to indi\adual 
state colleges for extension work in agriculture and home economics is approved 
as the immediately necessary and desirable step in making generally available 
knowledge as to agricultural and industrial processes by which wealth is created 
and equally as to household management and homemaking by which wealth is 
conserved and used. The Association especially urges the principle of combining 
home economics with agricultural and industrial extension education and would 
view with great regret any separation of these essentially unified activities. 

Third, The Association recognizes the great value of the activities now con- 
ducted by the United States Department of Agriculture especially in its Division 
of Nutrition Investigations of the Office of Experiment Stations in their relation 
to the home and especiallj^ urges that the Department of Agriculture provide as 
rapidly as possible for the broadening of these investigations which serve the farm 
and other homes of our country, so that problems of clothing and shelter shall 
receive attention equally with those of nutrition. 

Fourth, The Association approves the principle embodied in the Smoot Bill for 
federal aid to State Agricultural Experiment Stations for research in home 
economics. 

State legislation, — The Committee on Legislation urges workers in home eco- 
nomics to acquaint themselves with the provision of their individual states as to 
state aid for home economics education. A state program in this respect may 
include some or all of the following provisions: 

1. A state grant toward the salary of vocational teachers in high schools or in 
the grades. 

2. A state system of normal training classes in high schools for the preparation 



1913] Sixth Annual Meeting of the Association 363 

of rural teachers with stringent provision that the course of study shall include 
agriculture and domestic science as a prerequisite to the granting of state aid. 

3. A system of special schools of home economics to be organized by counties 
or districts as the county schools of agriculture and domestic economy in Wis- 
consin and the district agricultural high schools of Virginia, Georgia, Alabama 
and other states. 

4. A system of super\'ision of countr>' schools as regards vocational training, 
as instanced in the Minnesota system of state high schools, with aid for vocational 
departments, with the provision that rural schools in the adjoining territory may 
become associated with the central high school for instruction in home eco- 
nomics and other vocational subjects. 

5. A state requirement that domestic science shall as soon as practicable be 
taught in all schools. 

6. State super\-ision by the appointment of a state official to encourage the 
introduction of home economics in schools. Massachusetts has a woman super- 
visor for evening schools in household arts, and Arizona has appointed a woman 
as state superNnsor of industrial education. 

It is urged that state home economics associations, college clubs, and other 
organizations consider the problem of state legislation regarding home economics 
during the next year and that reports be made to the Committee on Legislation 
of this Association. 

Helen Kestne, 
CJtairman. 

Committee on the Graduate School of Hotne Economics. — Mrs. Alice P. Norton, 
chairman, reported verbally for this Committee. The account of the School of 
191 2 has already been pubhshed, and the plans for the School of 1914 are not 
yet completed. 

Committee on Ellen Richards Memorial Fund: The Committee charged with the 
establishment of a Home Economics Fund for Research and Publication as a 
memorial to the late Ellen H. Richards, reports substantial progress and feels 
increasingly assured of ultimate success. The gross receipts to date have been 
$3142, including general subscriptions of $2659, sales of Richards calendars, S310, 
and special gifts for publishing Syllabus of Home Economics, $173. There have 
been canvassing expenses of $403, calendar expenses of S297, and the Syllabus 
printing bill of $250 is still to be met. There is a net balance from general sub- 
scriptions of S2254, and the Syllabus Fund will net not less than $250. The net 
contributions in sight at present equal therefore S2500. 

First, the Committee wishes to emphasize the need of such resources as this 
Memorial will afford in the development of home economics as a scientific and a 
popular welfare movement. We are each of us working as individuals in our 
separate schools and institutions; this Association and its Journal serve as a clear- 
ing house for our own needs, adequate as far as it goes. Progress in science is a 
matter of wider cooperation, however, and at present there are three striking 
needs most inadequately provided for, which the Richards Fund for Research 
and Publication will meet. 



364 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

1. The encouragement of better prepared advanced scientific workers in home eco- 
nomics. — Our field of applied science has reached the time when it must go ahead 
by establishing facts, by encouraging research, by promoting rationally directed 
inquirj' as to the home, the institution and the community. Many colleges and 
imiversities are asking for leadership in organizing graduate study in home eco- 
nomics, which means science in the self-conscious stage of truth-seeking and truth- 
applying. It is a strategic time, for imless home economics develops within itself 
this power of scientific self-propulsion, of conquering its field of facts and experi- 
ence, it will make no lasting contribution to better living conditions. The Rich- 
ards Fund wiU make possible occasional scholarships, fellowships, and prizes, for 
the encouragement of advanced students of exceptional merit, and, by multiplying 
influence through equipping the trained leader, will thus help most fundamentally 
to secure rapid and certain progress. 

2. The publication of the results of scientific study. — Our Journal serves this end, 
but it sorely needs resources just now to enable it to publish longer articles in the 
form of separate scientific monographs, as has been demonstrated in bringing out 
the epoch-making Syllabus of Home Economics which has just appeared as the 
first publication of the Richards Fund, and as is further emphasized by other 
needed material which is now pressing for publication. 

J. The popularization of home economics. — Re-writing scientific results in the 
housewife's vocabulary for her especial application and getting the rules and 
procedures based on established fact into her hands, is the third need in home 
economics today. The Joxirnal Board's special fund of $500, to establish a 
Housekeeper's Section of the Journal, so promptly raised here in the Cornell 
meeting, is essentially a contribution to the Richards Memorial Fund. Populari- 
zation must proceed by publishing brief bulletins for home and club, and for wide- 
spread circularization of cards of directions for household processes to be hung in 
kitchens; and ultimately a housewife's encyclopedia as authoritative as is the 
Standard U. S. Pharmacopoeia. The Richards Fund here has a gigantic task, 
first undertaken by Ellen Richards herself in applying science to the home, and 
which we must carry out if we are not recreant. 

In these three ways, by encouraging scientific workers, by providing funds for 
larger scientific publications, and by issuing popular rules and procedures for the 
home woman, the members of this Association, by establishing the Richards 
Memorial Fund, are engaged in a service of heroic magnitude, and one absolutely 
essential to the realization of the home economics idea. 

What is each member's opportunity? Fundamentally, to raise $100 which is 
a member's share, pro rata, of the hundred thousand dollar memorial fund. This 
need not be done in a week, or a month, or a year; but let it be done. By cooper- 
ation of friends, of clubs and schools; by an entertainment, festival, pageant, recep- 
tion, candy or cake sale; by a personal subscription of one to ten dollars a year 
continuing as many years as may be desired — we have aU of us done as much for 
less worthy causes; by a plea to a man or woman of wealth for a generous sub- 
scription to this service of generosity; by securing sales for fifty, one hundred, 
or two hundred copies of the Syllabus of Home Economics, which is in effect a 
contribution to the Fund; by some plan for high school or college students of home 
economics to recognize this woman through whom and by whom there arose this 
opportunity to study home economics, perhaps by a sale or a special exhibit with 



1913] Sixth Annual Meeting of the Association 365 

an admission fee charged, as tableaus on some interesting subject, as early ^\meri- 
can Homes, or of Home Life in Various Lands; or by some undertaking which 
will grip the dub women and home women of your community — perhaps, a "baby 
show" with scorings as to health, a bread contest, an exhibit of costumes of other 
days, a series of lectures or demonstrations, or sales arranged at regular club meet- 
ings — in some one way or another, or in many ways, achieve this end of contrib- 
uting a member's share to this fund, which is to be at once a Memorial and a 
powerful agency for home betterment. 

Ever>- school and college whose students are organizing may have an Ellen 
Richards Home Economics Club and such a club may work for this Fund, not 
for a little while, but through one or more years. 

Everj' school and college should observ'e December 3, 1913, the anniversary' of 
the birth of Ellen Richards, as Home Economics Day with a suitable program. 
Suggestions will be made in a program printed later. Home Economics Day is 
a good day for securing contributions for the Fund. Interest your local club in 
obser\-ing the day. 

First, then, we ask each member of the Association to consider himself beholden 
to raise out of his or her circle of influence one hundred dollars for the Fund. 

Second, and quite as essential a part, the Committee asks your earnest cooper- 
ation in organizing the canvass; by city, state, country, or in whatever way possi- 
bilities open up. In one city, a plan for a benefit performance under the patronage 
of leading club women has been broached; in another a public scientific lecture 
on a subject of public interest; one state home economics association is taking 
steps to organize its territory'; in another state, one worker has canvassed every 
high school having home economics; opportunities to address city and state feder- 
ations of women's clubs have been secured; local associations are becoming re- 
sponsible for raising a definite sum, and $1000 or more may ultimately be secured 
from such an associated effort; wherever possible members are urged to form 
groups of two or three or more and by cooperation carry on a wider-reaching and 
more prolonged effort. 

Finally, it is requested that members communicate with the committee offering 
suggestions and reporting results, that each may benefit from mutual experience. 

WTiat has been done is an encouragement to entire success. The Publication 
and Research Fund is an agency vitally needed in home economics today. Let 
us honor our leader gone, by eyes forward to these tasks which challenge us today. 

Benjamin R. Andrews, 
Chairman. 

Editorial Board of the Journal. — In making the report for the Editorial Board, 
Mrs. Abel, the Editor, said in part: "In endeavoring to cover its chosen ground, 
the JouRNAX has first to report as to its success in furnishing to teachers of borne 
economics and to institution workers a scientific and professional journal open to 
the discussion of their most vital interests. VVe are glad to tell you that our scien- 
tific friends in other lines assure us that the Journal of Home Economics has 
to a great extent reached that ideal; of your own hearty approval and continued 
interest you have given us many proofs. You have been patient with our mistakes 
and you have kept in mind the fact that we have had no money to pay out for special 
articles that would have added to the interest and value of our pages. 



366 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

"The reason for turning our attention, first of all, to the needs of the teacher is 
worth recalling. When the Association was founded, Mrs. Richards, who saw all 
things ahead for us, said: 'This is going to be a great movement, and it will grow 
very rapidly: before we know it there will be a call for outlines of courses for teachers 
and we must be ready to furnish them, for the movement must not start in a poor 
way.' She threw her splendid intelligence and energy into that line, and year after 
year the Lake Placid Conference, and afterwards the American Home Economics 
Association, worked on the best courses in home economics from bottom to top for 
our schools. We felt then that it was the first thing to do, and we are not through 
with it. Courses must be watched, they must be kept up to the mark and intelli- 
gently e.xtended so that there is no falling down anywhere along the line. 

"There has been another reason why the Journal has hitherto addressed itself 
so largely to teachers and must continue to do so. The teacher knows her problems 
and she has been trained to discuss them. This she does in the pages of the Journal 
and so also does the institutional worker and they thus furnish the large part of our 
material. 

"The housekeeper, on the other hand, does not know her problems so well and has 
not been trained to discuss them and to exchange views with others; therefore she 
has been, as far as our Journal is concerned, almost inarticulate, and we have not 
had the money to hire people to speak for her. 

"This brings us to the most serious criticism that has been made against the 
conduct of the Journal, that 'it exists to help teachers to teach more teachers to 
teach stiU more teachers,' that in fact it works for the next generation, for the daugh- 
ters and granddaughters of the present housekeeper, neglecting wholly the needs of 
that important person today. 

"In reply we can say that while we have endeavored to put into every number 
of the Journal several articles which the practical housekeeper could read with great 
profit, we are fuUy aware that all our promises in this regard have not been fulfilled, 
and the chief reason is, as we have intimated, that well written and helpful articles 
on housekeeping problems have not been offered us in any great number. 

"Now what are the housekeeper's problems? I do not hesitate to say that of 
all the citizens of our country there are none so ill-adapted to their environment as 
is the average housekeeper to hers and it is because that environment has changed 
so and is constantly changing. . Compared with her grandmother she leads per- 
haps an easy life, but her grandmother was adapted by training from childhood to 
her simpler life and duties. Think of the things the housekeeper of today has to 
choose from; the different variety of furniture and equipment, the variety in clothing, 
the immense range in foods. The power of choice is in the hands of the woman of 
today, and the power is a very disturbing thing. 

"For instance, in equipment, the cook stove in its changing forms has always 
been a serious question. But now she must not only understand its mechanism but 
be able to compare it with many other ways of applying heat, and she must know 
the comparative value of several fuels. What part of her work shall be done in the 
house and what out of it? How adjust to the lack of good household help? How 
apply the new principles of efficiency to her equipment and to her labor throughout 
her varied day? How divide up her income? And with the children come all the 
problems of the inexperienced mother. 



1913] Sixth Annual Meeting of the Association 367 

"But when the Jourxax of Home Economics seriously considers taking up the 
practical questions of daily procedure in the house it has to decide whether it is 
equipped to treat them in the only way that is really helpful. Back of every such 
question lies a scientific or economic principle, or a group of them, whose application 
must be found and explained, ^^'e must be able to trace back to laboratory work, 
or to undoubted practical obser\'ation, or additional work may have to be asked 
from competent people. And not until a subject has been treated in this way can 
decisions be reached and the chapter be closed until new work is reported. 

"The scientific method, as we understand it, is not confined to the laboratory-. 
Whoever intelligentlj' observes, collects, arranges and files data, and then draws con- 
clusions by careful comparison of them is using it. Let us illustrate the lack of this 
method by what our correspondent writes in the 'woman's column.' She says 
'a slice of lemon boiled with the clothes on washing day will make them beauti- 
fully white.' To state It more accurately she thinks she has reached this by the use 
of a piece of lemon of imstated size, boiled for a time not stated, with an amount of 
clothing, weight not stated. Unfortunately, she does not know the value of the 
control or check test in drawing a true conclusion. This would have led her to 
omit the lemon in the boiling of the clothes on an equally sunny or cloudy day 
and with all other conditions e.xactly the same, and then, with the help of other 
good observers, to have compared the two results. Perhaps this would have shown 
that the supposed fact is not a fact after all. 

"Thus, whether the result be positive or negative, the observer would be started 
on the scientific method, without which no problem can be truly solved. 

"There is no doubt that the number of intelligent women who wish to meet 
the vexed questions of their daily life with an open mind and by the most modem 
methods has grown rapidly in our country. The Journ.'VL Board would feel it a 
great privilege to be able to cooperate with them . 

"We have decided to make the attempt if we can see our way to the financial 
help necessary. And in this, as in every other venture that the Journal has made, 
we shall depend on the help and sympathy of the members of the American Home 
Economics Association." 

After the reports Miss Martha Van Rensselaer and Miss Flora 
Rose welcomed the Association and described both the new Home 
Economics Building and the home economics work of Cornell Uni- 
versity. During the session the President called on Mrs. Elizabeth 
L. Clarke, delegate from the Association of Collegiate Alumnae, for 
a few words to the American Home Economics Association. 

Meeting adjourned. 



368 TJie Journ-al of Home Economics [October 

Friday June 27, 7.30 p.m. 

The President, Miss Sarah Louise Arnold, presided. The first 
speaker was Mme. Alice Geubel de la Ruelle, inspector of labor in 
France, and sent by the French Republic to this country to study 
industrial conditions and industrial education for women. Mme. de 
la Ruelle spoke on "The Working Girl in France" most interestingly. 
Dr. Thomas Nixon Carver, Director of Rural Economics, United 
States Department of Agriculture, then gave a most stimulating 
address on "Economics in the Home from a Man's Point of View."^ 
The President called on members of the audience for comment as 
follows: 

Professor Wilcox: We all of us have thought, no doubt, that there is certain 
tautology in the phrase "home economics. ' ' The word "economics" means literally 
the care of the home, and it is only as the word developed out of the old original 
Greek meaning in modem times that it took on a signification which made it 
necessary to prefix it by the word "home" in order to bring it back to what was its 
original meaning. The subject of economics of course originated in the eighteenth 
century when our thought was very much more materialistic than it is today. 
The underl>ing thought of the French or the American Revolution was the under- 
lying philosophy of the earliest economist, and it was the philosophy of the adult 
man ver>' largely, who was the unit of which society was made up. When Buckle 
said, for example, that the proper study of mankind is man, I take it that he 
meant that the proper study of mankind was the individual adult male of the 
species. That is what Bolingbroke's philosophy was, and that was very much 
what the earliest economics of Adam Smith was. Now in the nineteenth cen- 
tury, particularly the latter half, it seems to me that our whole way of looking 
at things was changed very largely as the result of the studies of the biologist or 
student of plant and animal life, among whom Dean Bailey deserves to be reck- 
oned as one who has revolutionized in various ways our point of view. The in- 
spiring and uplifting address that we have had from Professor Carver this evening 
is a most interesting application of that type of thought. It is showing that the 
unit of society is not the individual adult man, but rather the group or family. 

I think we shall have to come aroimd to the point of view that culture and 
family building are not as antagonistic as we have thought today. We shall have 
to realize that culture comes more in and through family building than in any 
other way. I feel this in my own experience more and more through the years 
that what life brings to each of us emanates more and more from the family and 
through one's own realization that he lives not for society, but that the best way 
he has of expressing his relations to society is through his relations to his own 
family. Further I believe we are bound to come around to a right view of eco- 
nomics as it is being brought nearer and nearer to its etjTnological meaning. 

* See page 291. 



1913] Sixih Annual Meeting of the Association 369 

Professor James George Needham, Cornell University: May I express my sympa- 
thy with your work and my appreciation of the interest your cause has in the 
cause I represent, namely, plant biology. 

The first application of biology is surely to living in this world, and 
this comes nearer to being represented by home economics than by any other 
interest whatsoever, and next unto it probably agriculture in the broadest sense, 
consisting in getting our living out of the life of the world. And then I put 
down as third in the list that which is often spoken of as important, the applica- 
tion of biology to medicine. It is certainly far more important that we keep in 
good working order and doing something, than it is that we should be patched 
up now and then. I am wonderfully interested in your work and in the entire 
system of the cause you represent. 

Meeting adjourned. 

Saturday, June 28, 10 a.m. 

General subject, "The Social Service Side of Home Economics." 
Presiding oflScer, Dr. C. F. Langworthy. Miss Mabel Hyde Kittredge, 
of the Association of Housekeeping Centers, New York City, read 
a most interesting paper on "The Need of the Immigrant,"- and 
Miss Josephine J. Eschenbrenner, Membership Secretary of the Na- 
tional Child Labor Committee, an excellent paper on the problem 
of child labor in this country. There was much discussion, of which 
brief extracts are given. 

Miss Arnold: I want to thank Miss Kittredge in behalf of all of us for her clear 
and able presentation of the big problem which seems to me one of the largest 
problems in home economics. The committee in arranging the program hoped 
very much to tie together the two words that give the title of the Association. Most 
of us have seen strenuous effort put into the formation of school programs and very 
great care on the part of the teacher to formulate a series of Teaching Exercises in 
Home Economics. In some cases we have been like the institution that is forget- 
ting the purpose for which it is called into existence. 

We should be most sorry if in our work we forget the men, women and children 
in the homes for which we are striving to do our work after all. And we hope very 
much that this reminder will caU attention to the dire needs of many homes for 
which we are doing our work. There is the home in the tenement; there is the home 
in the country-; there is the home everj'where that needs help. There is the home 
spelled with the capital H, which is the institution. 

I am going to repeat a story which Miss Barrows told me about a tenement home. 
She went in to see the mother while the children were away at school. The mother 
was holding one baby in her arms, and another baby was clinging to her skirts. 
After listening to what the young lady had to say, the mother opened a can of sal- 

*See page 307. 



370 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

mon with a stove hook, set both babies beside it on the floor, and they plunged their 
little fat hands into the can of salmon and then squeezed it into their mouths. That 
was their dinner. When the other children came home from school it was the 
dinner for the others. 

Now, in just a few short years those girls grow up and establish just such another 
home unless we can bring them with us, take hold of hands with them and teach 
them. We can do this only by knowing and understanding their surroundings. 
We need to know how to speak the language of their experience, knowing not the 
words only, but understanding the content that they put into their words, their 
experiences. 

One of our functions is to reinforce the present home as it is, and to that end we 
must know what the home is. Another of the necessities is to insure that the 
home of the next generation is to be better, and it will never be better unless 
the children secure from our instruction a very clear notion of the home that is 
within their reach, and yet is better than the home from which they come. 

Dr. Ira S. Wile: The only thing I would suggest is changing the title of Miss 
Kittredge's excellent paper from "The Need of the Immigrant" to "The Need 
of the People" because conditions which have been cited in our immigrant homes 
are in nowise different from those in only too manj' American homes. 

We have three t>T3es of service for the immigrant. One of these is not suggested 
at all in the paper, and that is the fact that the first immigrant is of the male 
type. The women do not come until the males are settled, and the needs of the 
male immigrant are satisfied only through boarding systems. Consequently the 
exploitation by boarding houses is one of the reasons for their low standard of 
existence. Then we have the newly-wed immigrants who are coming over to 
start a new establishment for themselves on the plan that !Miss Kittredge suggests 
in the community life, whether in a large city or a small one. The establishment 
of home conditions naturally depends upon several factors. In the first place it 
does not matter so much what they want as what they can get. They can only 
secure housing accommodations according to the amount of their income, or to 
the amount they can secure by raising their income by taking a boarder, or put- 
ting the children to work before they should. Now it is possible to teach these 
two groups. It is hard to teach the old dog new tricks, but you can teach the 
average foreigner because it is something new to him. The average foreign woman 
comes to this country with her foreign ideas. She is not inclined to feel that any 
one is looking out for her; that is not the foreign way. She views with suspicion 
the multiplicity of agents who come to visit her, to whom she has to tell her pri- 
vate affairs until they become public affairs, and she does not know a friend from 
a foe, so it takes a little time to gain her confidence. But in the end it can be 
gained by tactful work. 

Dr. Lajtgworthy: Professor Carver told me that he could not be present this 
morning. We had hoped that he would contribute to the discussion and regret 
that he is unable to do so. Speaking of rural conditions and rural homes he said 
something that I think has a general application to the whole question of better 
homes. He said that we were teaching the farmer to make money, and as soon 
as he made money he would inevitably leave the country because the country 



1 9 13] Sixth Annual Meeting of the Association 371 

was not as comfortable as it should be, and we could not hope to keep the farmer 
wnth means in the country home until the country offered such a home as we would 
ourselves wish to live in, and until country life was the kind of life that we would 
like to follow ourselves. It can be made all this if we apply to it the knowledge 
we now possess or can acquire. Miss Kittredge speaks of teaching the girls to 
recognize not only the dignity of the housework but the willingness to do it. Is 
there not a parallel there? Can we hope that girls and women will turn to house- 
work with pleasure unless we can lighten its burdens and make it an interesting 
occupation, or profession, if you will, instead of hard labor? This we can do by 
apphing knowledge to household tasks. Labor-saving devices, household con- 
veniences, cooperative enterprises, and the general adoption of the right methods 
experts now possess would go far to make this dream come true. We have faith 
in the future and believe that the unsolved problems will yet be solved, and that 
rural life and home occupations will again come into their o\vn with full recogni- 
tion of their possibilities and opportunities. 

Mrs. A bel: As to training the boy and girl in the home by means of housework, 
it is as a previous speaker has hinted, one of my hobbies. I feel that what has 
been our great need is to move out of the house the heavy tasks that are done there 
at a great disadvantage, I mean, for instance the laundry and the baking. Even 
then we should be behind where all foreign households have been for I do not 
know how long I knew Germany very weU twenty-five years ago, when there 
was little or no laundry work or baking done even in the poorest houses in the 
city, and little in the country towns. We all feel, do we not, that some of these 
heavy tasks could go out to the great advantage not only of the household but 
also with respect to the perfection of the product? My greatest interest in the 
matter is that there would then be left in the household an amount of work which 
would not require the servant in the moderately well-to-do house which now 
employ's one or two. The woman of the household when she rises to the dignity 
of all her tasks by learning to do them in a perfect way, helped by scientific hands, 
will be able to use this perfectly wonderful educational plant, the house and its 
occupations, in teaching the foundational things to little children and in a way 
which is not possible if her hands are always heavy with burdens which might 
be taken from her. Xow, we are not disembodied spirits; we cannot learn except 
by the use of things, and through certain media, and 1 cannot imagine any edu- 
cational plan so fine for teaching to very little children all the elemental things, 
for instance, that underlie hygiene, neatness, order, obedience, faithfulness, thought- 
fulness for others, all the things that underlie a civilized and refined life, as that 
which the average household has to offer. But this does not seem to me to be 
possible in the presence of servants. If in the average household the amount of 
work to be done could be so decreased by taking out the heavy tasks, as is the 
case in European countries, and if the equipment of the household could be im- 
proved as it doubtless will be very soon when we all use the things already invented 
and which are rapidly finding their way in, if the mother of the family can be 
trained to do this work well, and if she gives it the dignity it merits, then we shall 
have an educational plant for the training of little children such as has never yet 
been known. 

Meeting adjourned. 



372 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

Saturday Evening, June 28. 

The Home Economics Building was formally opened this evening, 
a reception being given by the Department of Home Economics to 
the American Home Economics Association and the Cornell faculty. 
Informal addresses were made in the Assembly Hall by ex-President 
Andrew D. White, Acting-President T. F. Crane, Dean Liberty Hyde 
Bailey, Miss Van Rensselaer, and Miss Rose, after which the guests 
were received in the practice apartment. The opportunity to see 
the beautiful building in gala dress was much appreciated. 

On Sunday at 3.15 President George E. Vincent, of the University 
of Minnesota, spoke to the Association in Sage Chapel on "Vocations 
and Culture." Dean Liberty Hyde Bailey introduced President Vin- 
cent. The latter spoke with the vitaHty, the definiteness and the 
inevitable right word that President Vincent has taught us to expect. 
Later in the afternoon there was a sunset service out of doors with 
special music. 

Monday, June 30, 2 p.m. 

General subject, "The Industrial Side of Home Economics." Pre- 
siding officer, Miss Isabel Ely Lord. 

The first paper was by Miss Mary Quinn, Pratt Institute, on the 
"Basic Work in Art, in Preparing Teachers of Home Economics." Mr. 
C. E. Prosser, Executive Secretary of the National Society for the 
Promotion of Industrial Education, gave a most interesting address 
on "The Girl in Industry." This was followed by a paper by Miss 
Mary E. Parker, of the William Penn High School, Philadelphia, on 
"Preparing the Girl for Industrial Vocations." 

There was discussion of the papers from which a few extracts are 
given : 

Miss Sarah L. Arnold: One difficulty we have experienced is that we can not 
find teachers for the schools where girls must be taught in preparation for trades. 
It did not matter very much whether they were to be taught dress-making, but it 
was agreed by those who were associated with Mr. Prosser in Massachusetts that 
it was essential that the women who went to teach in these schools should be those 
who understood the principles of industry, who should know what a da^^'s work 
meant, and who should understand the homes from which they were to work 
later. Home economics has not yet met the demand for teachers who can teach 
home economics to the working girl. We are trying to do it, and each one of us 
is trying to work out some key by which it will be done, but the people will not 



1913] Sixth Anniud Meeting of the Association 373 

have confidence that we have been so schooled in household economics that we 
can go into the work rooms or the industrial schools and teach, unless we our- 
selves have more industrial training. It is perfectly clear that the young woman 
who is to teach in the industrial schools should be put through a course of indus- 
trial apprenticeship. 

Dr. Ira S. Wile continued the discussion. He said: We must recognize the origin 
of this problem. Dr. Prosser prophesies that in ten years we will have all chil- 
dren going to school imtil sixteen. In the first place the country as a whole has 
not adequate educational laws; you can not tell, then, about educational guidance 
unless you can compel children to be where you can give them the education and 
the guidance so that the necessity for compulsory education maj^ be realized. I 
am not quite so optimistic as Dr. Prosser. I wish I were, but I cannot say it will 
be in ten years when I realize not only the fact of the term of years which a child 
must go to school, but also when I consider that some states only have four or 
five months in their school year. 

You cannot guarantee that any child is going to remain in a vocation simply 
because you put him there. WTio is to choose? Is the child capable of deciding 
what his life work shall be? How many of you knew at fourteen or sixteen what 
you wanted to do later? How many times have you changed your mind about 
it since foiu-teen or sixteen; how many are sure what you will be doing five j'ears 
from now? We have the same problem in industrial education. We must not 
hold up that beautiful emblem of income, and gauge vocational work by money. 
The thing to teach to all is the joy of living, the value of honest work, the joy of 
doing something and doing it well and taking an interest in it, and whether we 
do it on the productive side or the distributive side it does not matter at all. 

Meeting adjourned. 

Monday, June 30, 8 p.m. 

General subject, "The Extension Side of Home Economics." Pre- 
siding officer, Miss Martha Van Rensselaer. The speaker of the eve- 
ning was Professor Otis W. Caldwell, of the University of Chicago, 
whose able address was on " Home Economics and Rural E.xtension." 
The chairman then called on extension workers present to speak 
briefly, each on her own work. There were speakers from thirteen 
states and one Canadian province, as follows: Washington, Louisiana, 
Montana, Nebraska, New York, Vermont, New Jersey, Iowa, Ohio, 
Pennsylvania, Georgia, Maine, Maryland and Quebec. Delaware and 
Florida also had extension workers at the annual meeting. 

Meeting adjourned. 



374 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

Tuesday, July i, io a.m. 

General subject, "The Educational Side of Home Economics." 
Presiding officer, Mrs. Mary Hinman Abel. Papers were presented 
by Miss Anna W. Williams, Kansas State Agricultural College, on 
"Some Results from a Study of the Factors in Bread Making;" Miss 
Cora E. Gray, University of Illinois, on "Problems in the Preparation 
and Use of Foods;" Professor J. F. Snell, MacDonald College, on 
"The Basic Work in Science, in Preparing Teachers of Home Eco- 
nomics;" and Miss Sarah J. MacLeod, Pratt Institute, on "An 
Experiment in Teaching Economics." In the discussion which fol- 
lowed, the following persons spoke: Dr. A. C. Blood, Simmons Col- 
lege; Miss Josepliine T. Berry, University of Minnesota; Dr. J. F. 
Snell; Miss Flora Rose; Mrs. AHce P. Norton, University of Chicago. 

Meeting adjourned. 

Tuesday, July i, 8 p.m. 

Presiding officer, Acting-President T. F. Crane, Cornell University. 
The first address of the evening was by Mr. H. F. J. Porter, Secre- 
tary of the Efficiency Society, who gave an interesting account of 
the aims and the work of that society. The main feature of the 
evening's program was the President's address, by Miss Sarah Louise 
Arnold, an address which summed up the purposes and possible 
results of this meeting.^ 

At the close of Miss Arnold's address Mrs. Abel presented the 
report on the Journal of Home Economics, already given. ^ Miss 
Arnold then called on the Secretary, who asked those present to make 
pledges toward the $500 fund necessary to start the new Home- 
makers' Department in the Journal. Pledges were made at the close 
of the meeting, and in twenty-four hours the whole sum was given 
or pledged by members present. No better proof of the vitality of 
the Association has ever been given than the ease with which this 
sum was raised. 

Meeting adjourned. 



''See p. 317. 
*See p. 365. 



1913] Sixth Annual Meeting of the Association 375 

Wednesday, July 2, 10 a.m. 

General subject, "The Housekeeper's Side of Home Economics." 
Presiding Officer, Dr. Benjamin R. Andrews. After a brief report by 
the Secretary regarding the special Journal fimd, Mrs. Abel gave a 
further statement of the help asked from the Association in the estab- 
Ushment and maintenance of the Homemakers' Department in the 
Journal. 

Dr. Andrews then introduced Mrs. J. George Frederick, author of 
"The New Housekeeping," who spoke in a most stimulating way on 
"Efficiency in the Household." 

Dean Liberty Hyde Bailey, who had been unable to be present at 
the session on this subject, then addressed the Association on exten- 
sion work. He spoke especially of home economics work at Cornell 
University, and said in part: 

If we are trjang to work educational processes out of the daily lives of the peo- 
ple, why then, of course, we must organize educationally the affairs and interests 
of women in the same way as we have the affairs and interests of men, but in a 
larger way. I do not like to think of home economics as resting merely upon the 
affairs of women; it rests still deeper than that, it rests upon the affairs of the 
home. As I tried to say here once before, there are some of us still old-fashioned 
enough to think that the home is an institution worth preserving, and all the 
enterprises that grow out of it, so that the home economics education is founded 
on the fundamental necessities of the race. It needs no apology and no explana- 
tion, except to persons who wish to have more information about it, so that in 
this institution we never asked permission to put it in. We merely put it in, and 
we have been confident from the first to the last that the work would prove itself 
in time. It has proved itself more rapidly than in the beginning I anticipated it 
would. Now the point I wish to leave is the point with which I began, and that 
is that this home economics work in the College of Agricialture at Cornell (and I 
hope it is the same all over the country) is not a concession to public demand; 
it lies in the nature of the case. If we are to have a real democracy', why then 
we must democratize for an educated people to the last of the folk in the homes 
and on the farms. I do not see how it is possible to have real democracy until 
we have a thoroughly developed home economics education. 

A discussion on the "Best Way Yet" was to follow Mrs. Frederick's 
paper, but there was very brief time for it, and therefore it was decided 
to hold a special session in the evening for the discussion of this 
interesting topic before the regular meeting. 

The final address of this session was a most valuable one by Miss 
Helen B. Young, on "The Relation of Home Planning to Home 
Economics." This was illustrated by lantern slides. 



2^6 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

The sessions beginning Wednesday evening, July 2, through Friday 
morning, July 4, were under the charge of the Institution Economics 
Section and are separately reported.^ 

The annual elections were held on Thursday, July 3, officers being 
elected for the calendar year 1914. The report of the tellers, Mrs. 
B. H. Hyde and Miss C. A. Mulligan, was read at the evening session, 
as follows: 

The total number of votes cast was 59. Officers received the vote 
and were duly elected as follows: 

President, Sarah Louise Arnold, 59. 

Vice-Presidents, Martha Van Rensselaer, 59, Abby L. Marlatt, 57; 
Benjamin R. Andrews, 58. 

Secretary, Isabel Ely Lord, 57. 

Treasurer, C. F. Langworthy, 58. 

For members of the Council, to serve five years, Mrs. Mary H. Abel, 
Mrs. Alice P. Norton, Miss Ellen C. Sabin, Dr. Henry C. Sherman, 
Prof. Wm. Morse Cole, 57 each. 

Nominating Committee, to serve five years. Miss Bertha M. Terrill. 

There was but one scattering vote. 

The final general session was held at 12 noon on Friday, July 4, 
when the flag of the Home Economics Building was raised. The 
President, Miss Arnold, presided, and asked for the report of the 
Committee on Resolutions, which was submitted. 

Report of the Committee on Resolutions: The members of the American Home 
Economics Association have enjoyed the hospitality extended by Cornell Univer- 
sity at their sixth annual meeting, therefore it is 

Resolved, That we express to Cornell University our deep appreciation of its 
generous hospitality extended to us through the Department of Home Economics 
of its College of Agriculture. 

Resolved, That we give special thanks to Acting President Crane, Ex-President 
Andrew D. White, Dean Liberty H. Bailey, and other members of the Cornell 
faculty, for their cordial welcome and their expressions of sympathy with our 
subject and aims. 

Resolved, That we acknowledge a special indebtedness to the Department of 
Home Economics of the College of Agriculture; to Miss Van Rensselaer, Miss 
Rose, and their associates for the untiring efforts which have made possible the 
perfection of arrangement so noticeable at this meeting; and to the young women 
of the Frigga Fylge Club who have given of their personal services untiringly. 

Resolved, That we extend our thanks to those not members of our Association 
who have contributed so much of value to our program: Mme. Alice Geubel de 

*See p. 378. 



19 13] Sixth Annual Meeting of the Association 377 

la Ruelle, Envoy of the French Republic; Dr. Thomas Nixon Carver; Miss J. J. 
Eschenbrenner; President George E. Vincent; Mr. C. R. Prosser; Prof. Otis W. 
Caldwell; Mrs. J. George Frederick; ^Mr. H. F. J. Porter; Mrs. Annie L. Hansen, 
and ^liss Emma Winslow. 

Resolved, That the Association e.xpress its gratitude for the assurance of sym- 
pathy with its aims and the expressions of the spirit of cooperation offered in the 
greetings of delegates to this meeting from associations with kindred aims. 

Resolved, That we express our thanks to members of the Cornell Faculty and 
others for the enjoyable excursions that have been arranged, and to the many 
who have extended social courtesies. 

Josephine T. Berry, Chairman, 
Catharine A. Mulligan, 
C. F. Langworthy. 

Special resolutions were presented at previous sessions as follows: There has been 
one thought so often and so universally voiced throughout the days of this con- 
ference, that your committee finds itself under obligation to give it expression in 
advance of its formal report to be presented Friday. 

The members of the Association recognize everywhere the wisdom and imtiring 
efforts of Miss \'an Rensselaer and Miss Rose in providing for their comfort and 
pleasure. They deeply appreciate their unselfish service, and wiU carr>' with them 
the inspiration of the fuller revelation of the power and personality of these women. 

Resolved, That we extend to Dean Liberty H. Bailey the sincere thanks of the 
entire Association for the inspiration and encouragement gained from his philo- 
sophical analysis of the present and his vision of the future of home economics 
in education and in the national life. 

Resolved, That the .American Home Economics Association wishes to assure the 
Honorable Andrew D. White that it appreciates fuUy the honor conferred by his 
presence and participation in its meetings. 

Josephine T. Berry, Chairman, 
Catharine A. Mulligan. 
C. F. Langworthy. 

Mme. Alice Geubel de la Ruelle oflfered her formal thanks to the 
Association and to Cornell University for the hospitality oflfered her 
as an ofl&cial of the French Republic. 

Dean Liberty Hyde Bailey read one of his own poems. The main 
address was made by ex-President Andrew D. White, of Cornell Uni- 
versity, who said in part: 

My office today is a very simple one. It is simply to spread before you, or 
rather call your attention to, the flag of our country. I need not tell you how 
poets and orators, historians and philosophers, men and women of light and lead- 
ing in every field have looked with joy and hope to the American flag. Devotion 
to the flag, devotion to a symbol, devotion to anything which represents even 
in the most humble and plainest way the great ideas on which a nation is founded, 
becomes in some sense, and justly, a part of the religion of that country. 



378 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

There have been in the minds of some thinking men from time to time doubts 
as to whether the devotion to the sign, to the symbol, to the emblem, did not too 
much outweigh that which sign and symbol and emblem represented and covered. 
But as we review the history of the development of our race we shall see that after 
the sign, symbol, the banner or flag has been not merely to help but to necessitate. 

There are great triumphs to be won in the development of the human race, and 
my hope is that this flag will symbolize to the world a triumph such as shall rise 
at least above all others to the honor and to the glory of our country. Everyone 
of us has as his duty to make the reputation of his country better and better, the 
reputation of his country, of his republic, which is to be a real republic, not merely 
one of political intrigue, merely of pretenses and reform. An anarchial jumble of 
propositions of reforms and of progress amounts to nothing. If that is the case 
it will go down as other republics and as other anarchies have gone down. Then 
let us hope for something better. No country has ever made provision for the 
education of its citizens as has our o^vn. All that must covmt for something. That 
we do our duty, that and that alone is the way in which the American flag shall 
be truly lifted and honored in the eyes of the nations. Those of you who in your 
Christian churches, and indeed in the Jewish synagogues, read the poetry of that 
race from which so much of our religion has come, will remember one of the most 
noble psalms in which this line occurs, a very noble and beautiful line, worthy to 
be repeated in every prayer and in all praise always: "In the name of God I will 
lift up my banner." 

Miss Sarah Louise Arnold then adjourned the sixth annual meeting 
of the American Home Economics Association. 

Isabel Ely Lord, 

Secretary. 

INSTITUTION ECONOMICS SECTION. 

The sessions from Wednesday evening until Friday noon were in 
charge of the Institution Economics Section, and the same live inter- 
est that has characterized the meetings of the Institution Section for 
the past three years was manifest here at Cornell. 

At the Wednesday evening meeting, Miss Arnold introduced Miss 
Maria ElHott of Simmons College, who, as a pupil and friend of Mrs. 
Richards, gave the following tribute to the two members of the "Old 
Guard" present — Mrs. Dewey and Mrs. Abel: 

"Among the beautiful pictures that hang on memory's walls for 
a few in this large company are bits of mountain heights and forest 
aisles in the Adirondacks. Chmbing the heights in the early morning 
or following the woody trails at dusk is a woman whose very name 
to this audience is an inspiration and a blessing — Ellen H. Richards. 
Much of her spirit of inspiration she drew from these seasons of 



1913] Institution Economics Section 379 

communion with the grandeur and grace of nature's handiwork. But 
she was seldom there for long, or alone. She knew, as no one else 
could know, how much she needed the ever-ready help of two other 
women — staunch supporters and sympathetic friends. Her child, 
the American Home Economics Association, is glad to follow her 
still, in recognizing the hearty cooperation, sane guidance and gentle 
patience of Mrs. Dewey and Mrs. Abel, two members of the "Old 
Guard" as Mrs. Richards loved to call the founders of the Lake 
Placid Conference. We are blessed in having you two with us this 
week and \\'ish to express to you our confidence and love." 

The first paper of the evening was given by Dr. Ira S. Wile of 
New York City, on "Standards of Living." He was followed by 
Mrs. Annie Dewey, Lake Placid Club, New York, on "Organiza- 
tion, Man Power and Rewards," after which Mrs. Dewey explained 
charts on organization of college dormitories, women's clubs, and 
other institutions. She also showed the series of blanks and printed 
directions to employees of the Lake Placid Club which showed the 
careful organization that is so suggestive to institution directors. 

A third paper scheduled for this evening, but given on the one 
previous, was read by Mr. H. T. J. Porter, Secretary of the Efficiency 
Society, New York City, in which he emphasized the importance 
of eflScient organization in institutions, noting illustrations from those 
in the industrial world. 

The Thursday morning session, with Miss Van Rensselaer as chair- 
man, was divided between the reports on Laundry Management 
and Lunch Room Management. Miss S. Maria Elliott, of Simmons 
College, as chairman of the Laundry Committee, gave a report of 
the year's work. She outlined the study that has been made on 
cooperative laundries, and reported in detail on the work of the 
Cooperative Laundry at Chatfield, Minn. She also told of the efforts 
that are being made to standardize marking of linen sent to laundries.^ 

The School Lunch Section was in charge of Miss Mary E. L. Small 
of Buffalo, New York. She introduced Miss Boughton of Philadel- 
phia, who explained the work of the Committee, and announced the 
section on School Feeding at the International Congress of School 
Hygiene to be held in Buffalo, August 25 to 30. Miss Small said that 
as it was felt that the subject of school lunches both in the high 
schools and elementary schools has been dealt with comprehensively 
at the past two meetings of the Association, the main point to be 

^This report will be published in the December Journal of Home Economics. 



380 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

considered at this meeting was the training of the person in charge 
of the school lunches. Miss Lillian Kemp of Drexel Institute gave 
a paper on "The Training of the School Dietitian," outlining the 
work as given at Drexel Institute. This was followed by a paper 
on "Teaching of Meals in Regular Class Work," by Miss Margaret 
L. Durdan, Buffalo, New York. 

The question of furnishing meals free to children suffering from 
malnutrition was discussed fully, and a report of this discussion will 
be printed with the papers. 

Before the Thursday evening meeting an informal discussion on 
the subject of equipment for large numbers in institutions was held, 
Miss Van Rensselaer acting as chairman. The question of bread 
mixers with electric motors was discussed, both from the economical 
and sanitary viewpoints. The most satisfactory kind of dishwash- 
ing machines was next taken up, and experiences were quoted regard- 
ing machines showing least breakage of dishes. Suggestions were 
also offered as to the successful use of soap preparations in these 
machines. Dr. Andrews referred to the Industrial Code of the State 
of Wisconsin drawn up for the bakers of that state as a source of 
information for equipment for large kitchens. 

The major part of the evening was given over to papers showing 
the work of the Visiting Housekeeper or Domestic Educator. This 
community worker who deals with groups of people in their homes 
has many problems allied to the institution worker. The papers 
that were given were: "An Experiment: The Visiting Housekeeper's 
Work in Detroit," Mrs. Bessie Bishop Bothwell, Visiting House- 
keeper, The Associated Charities, Detroit, Mich. "Two Years of 
Work as Domestic Educator," Mrs. Annie L. Hansen, North Amer- 
ican Ci\'ic League for Immigrants; "Home Economics in Social Work," 
Miss Winifred S. Gibbs, Super\isor, Home Economy Department, 
The New York Association for Improving the Condition of the Poor; 
"PossibiUties in the Work of the Municipal Visiting Housekeeper," 
Miss Emma Winslow, lately Visiting Housekeeper of the Young 
Women's Christian Association, Cleveland, Ohio. 

The Friday morning session, in charge of Dr. Wm. Morse Cole, 
Chairman of the Committee on Institutional Accounts, was devoted 
to business administration and the subject was "Unit Costs." Mr. 
Freeman, the first speaker, showed how unit costs have been used in 
many cases of manufacture as tests of efl&ciency, and reports on 
studies made on unit costs in hospitals were given by Mr. English. 



1913] Richmond Meeting 381 

A fuller report of this interesting discussion will be printed later 
with the papers. Mr. K. C. Livermore, Professor of Farm Manage- 
ment of New York State College of Agriculture, gave a paper on 
"Institutional Farm Management." 

The Institution Section will carry forward its work through the 
coming year with committees actively at work on Dormitory, Lunch 
Room, and Laundry ^lanagement; Organization and Efficiency in 
Administration; Training in Institutional Management; Institutional 
Accoimting; Dietary Administration, and so forth. The names of 
the members of these committees may be obtained from the secretary 
of the Institution Economics Section, Miss Emma H. Gunther, 
Teachers College, New York City. 

Emma H. Gunther, 

Secretary. 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 
AT RICHMOND. 

The American Home Economics Association held a meeting in 
cormection with the Southern Education Conference at Richmond, 
Virginia, in April. The meeting was held in the auditorium of the 
Jefferson Hotel, and was attended by some fifty members of the 
Conference. Dr. B. R. Andrews of Teachers College, Columbia Uni- 
versity, \dce-president of the Association, presided and made the 
opening address in which he outlined briefly the history of the Asso- 
ciation and the educational work which home economics is attempt- 
ing to accomplish. Miss Isabel Ely Lord, director of the School of 
Household Arts and Sciences at Pratt Institute, Brooklyn, and secre- 
tary of the Association, was the second speaker. Miss Lord described 
the practice house which has recently been added to the equipment 
at Pratt Institute, and which consists of a residence located near the 
Institute and used as a residence school, students living there in 
groups. 

The third speaker was Dr. C. F. Langworthy, chief of Nutrition 
Investigations, Department of Agriculture, and treasurer of the Asso- 
ciation. Dr. Langworthy spoke of the Syllabus of Home Economics 
which has recently been published by the Richards Memorial Fund of 
the American Home Economics Association. Informal discussion 
followed the speeches. 

Although the work is widespread in the Southern States and 



382 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

meetings of local organizations numerous, this meeting was the first 
formal gathering of home economics workers in the South, and as 
such seems especially significant. It is hoped that next year under 
the auspices of the national organization and the Southern Educa- 
tion Conference there will be a larger meeting. 

SECOND INTERNATIONAL CONGRESS FOR THE 

TEACHING OF HOUSEHOLD ECONOMY, 

GHENT, BELGIUM. 

The Second International Congress for the Teaching of Household Economy 
met at Ghent, Belgium, Jtme 15-18, 1913. This meeting followed immediately 
upon that of the International Association of Women Farmers, and it was most 
interesting to note how closely these two movements are allied in the continental 
coimtries. As is usual at such meetings not the least stimulating feature was the 
opportunity of coming in contact with so many earnest workers interested in 
furthering the same movement, people from different countries, speaking several 
languages, in many cases havang different problems, but all with one idea in com- 
mon, that of spreading the gospel of "right living." Nationality and class dis- 
tinctions were forgotten, and each was eager to discover anything that would be 
of help in meeting a particular problem and at the same time to give the benefit 
of her experience to others. 

The program committee is to be commended upon the excellent way in which 
the preliminary work was handled. Realizing that the actual time for the proceed- 
ings would of necessity be too short for a full discussion and that many who could 
contribute much of value would not be present, the program was arranged months 
in advance and specialists in various lines of work were asked to contribute. These 
articles were published a sufficiently long time in advance to enable those inter- 
ested to read them and become familiar with the main facts under discussion. In 
some of the sections, in order to make the subject stiU more clear these resolutions 
were printed and distributed upon the day when they were to be offered. While 
this plan made possible a much more valuable body of subject matter it had the 
defect of making the meetings themselves both formal and set in character. 

The program was divided into four sections as follows: I, Home Economics 
Instruction in the Primary and Family School; II, Home Economics Teaching for 
Adults in conjunction with the Secondary Schools; III, Training of Teachers for 
Home Economics Work; IV, Progress of Home Economics Teaching in the dif- 
ferent Countries and the Importance of this teaching from a Social Point of View. 

It is impossible in so short a space to give a full account of the program. Those 
who are interested in the details are referred to the preliminary reports and the 
verbal proceedings.^ 

To the American teachers probably the most interesting feature of the meeting 
had to do with the development of the work in the several countries. In America 

' These five volumes may be obtained by sending five francs ($2) to the Secre- 
tariat General du Dixieme Congres de I'Enseignement Manager, 19, Rue Williams, 
BruxeUes, Belgique. 



19 13] Congress for Teaching Household Economy 383 

we are so isolated that we know comparative!}- little of what the European coun- 
tries are doing along these lines. It was interesting to note the stimulus that 
had been given to the development of the work by the meeting at Friburg in 
1908,^ and also to see how the work of the schools has been supplemented 
by other forces, agricultural and social. They have realized in Europe, as we have 
only commenced to realize, that the solution to all these problems lies in educa- 
tion, and especially home education. As Miss Bertha Trussel' expressed it "Home 
economics teaching has made much progress in Switzerland since the time of the 
last Congress. It now seems that in the teaching of this subject lies the solution 
of such important social problems as the prevention of infant mortality, tuber- 
culosis, and drunkenness." 

France, Switzerland, and Belgium are the three coimtries from which the work 
has spread, and in many other countries where the work has been recently intro- 
duced it has been avowedly patterned after that in one of these coimtries. They 
have also supplied many of the teachers who have introduced the work into new 
fields, for it is only after the work has taken hold and the demand for teachers is 
felt that the special schools for training teachers have been established. In all 
of the countries reporting, from Xonvay and Sweden to Italy, and from England 
to Roumania, there has been a remarkable development since 1908, probably due 
in part to the stimulus given to public sentiment by the last congress held in 
Switzerland at that time, and in part to the general awakening of the people to 
all social problems. 

The discussions of aU the sections overlapped. It was probably the first sec- 
tion upon which the most of the interest centered. It is in the primary grades 
that the work is first introduced, and it is often given here when not elsewhere in 
the course. This is what would be expected when the work is given from a social 
point of view. It must be given where it wiU reach the greatest number of pupils. 
The actual age varies in the different countries according to the school laws, but 
in general it is offered for the last two years of compulsory attendance so that it 
reaches all of the pupQs and at a time when they are most likely to be interested 
in it. The ages of the children are given as from eleven to fourteen years. In 
some places work is offered before this time, but in general it is conceded to be 
better to have the school concentrate upon the practical work during the last 
two years, and to make an effort to obtain the cooperation of the home during the 
earlier years. While the children seem younger than those in our sixth, seventh, 
and eighth grades the courses seem to correspond to those offered there. 

Though this primary course is definitely required of the girls in some localities, 
in some it may be optional. In other places, to the primary course with or with- 
out home economics, is added a two year course with the special needs of the girl 
in view. These are called schools of the fourth degree, and the work in them 
varies, depending upon the amount of previous work and the future needs of the 
girl. These schools correspond in general to our continuation schools. Schools 
which correspond more closely to our ideas of continuation schools have been 
established in many places, and the extension of such schools is urged. Miss 

2 First International Congress for the Teaching of Household Economy, Fri- 
burg, Switzerland, 1908. 

' Volume IV of preliminary publication. 



384 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

VViltop-Konig* describes them as they exist in Holland. Classes are arranged 
which meet only for certain hours on definite days and the work can be adapted 
to the needs and conveniences of the various working classes, and in some cases 
to the mothers in the homes. This attempt to meet the needs of the mother, 
together with the visiting of the teacher in the home, has done much to strengthen 
the bond between the school and the home and to secure the cooperation of the 
mother in the training of her children. 

In England girls must attend school until they reach the fourteenth year, 
although those who attain to a certain standard of excellence are allowed to leave 
before, in the twelfth or thirteenth year. By introducing the home economics 
work in the eleventh year all of the students get at least a part of the training. 
Since those who leave early get only a portion of the course Miss Calder of Liver- 
pool, suggests that all the domestic science be given in a special six months' course 
devoted entirely to this work and made compulsory for every girl. 

For the rural localities where the work is badly needed and where it is not 
possible to support a fuU time school there are the so-called ambulatory or mov- 
able schools. These schools remain in the different localities varying lengths of 
time, usually about three months, and bring to the girls the training otherwise 
unattainable. In Holland^ these courses are conceded to be institutions of great 
importance for popularizing home economics in the country and for increasing 
prosperity and public health. In Yorkshire, England, such a school has been 
held in a furniture van fitted up as a small kitchen. This goes from place 
to place, stopping at some central point for four consecutive weeks. The financ- 
ing of such schools varies in the different countries. Generally they are sup- 
ported wholly or in part by the state working through the boards of education 
or agriculture. 

As the work is being given more and more in the public schools the demand 
for properly trained teachers arises, and practically all of the countries have met 
this need by the establishment of normal schools. This training differs greatly 
in the various countries. The time spent in such training varies from a few months 
to two, or possibly three, years, depending upon the standards of the people and 
the amount of previous training of the students. Some of the schools require a 
normal school certificate for entrance. In general a larger proportion of time is 
spent on practical and less on theoretical training than in our own country. The 
tendency in the development of the training school is to lengthen the course. This 
is seen particularly when a comparison is made between the countries where the 
work has been recently established and those where the work is of longer stand- 
ing and has become more static. The teachers previously trained meet this pro- 
gressive spirit by forming study clubs for improvement. 

Closely allied with the normal schools are frequently professional schools. In 
some of these the professional training is for the preparation of dietitians and 
housekeepers, while many have attached departments where young women of the 
lower classes may train themselves for cooks, waitresses, and ladies' maids. 

* Martine Wiltop-Konig, Professeur a la Nouvelle Ecole M6nager d'Amsterdam. 
Sec. I. 

^ M. E. Liliman-Bosch. Amsterdam. Les cuisines volants et les cours volant 
d'enseigment menager. 



1913] [International Congress on School Hygiene 3S5 

In comparing the work in Europe with the work in America it seems that though 
the work in this country is developed along broader lines, in Europe the work is 
being better adapted to the needs of the people. This is indicated in Section 2, 
Resolution 4: "The organization of training in domestic economy shall be based 
upon local necessity and upon the particular requirements of each category of 
pupils in such a manner as to make the best use of every material and pedagogical 
means at hand." Section III, Resolution 35: "Teachers of domestic economy 
shall be recruited, as far as possible, in the districts in which they will be called 
upon to teach." 

At the final meeting two interesting sets of resolutions were offered, the first 
of which was presented by the International Committee and related to the Inter- 
national OfBce for Instruction in Home Economics at Friburg. This office was 
established by the Congress, but the work has been greatly crippled by the death 
of the former director shortly after his appointment. A new director, M. L. 
Genoud, has been appointed and the work promises to be most interesting and 
valuable. A visit to this office at Rue des .\lpes, Friburg, Switzerland, is one 
that will be of value to anyone interested along these lines. In this office is a col- 
lection of home economics periodicals and the texts used in the various coimtries. 
American and English texts are conspicuous by their absence. The writer had 
the pleasure of leaving the first Journal of Home Economics there, and we may 
well be proud that there was nothing there that can compare with it. 

The last of the resolutions offered was the natural result of trying to compare 
courses under so many different nomenclatures. This resolution was offered by 
a committee of teachers from Holland: "It is recommended to issue before the 
next congress is in preparation, an exact compendium, provided with notes of 
explanation, of the system of education (elementar}'^, secondary, and of higher 
and technical instruction) in the different countries, stating the ages at which the 
average pupils enter and leave the schools, so that everybody in drawing up the 
reports may know how educational matters are arranged abroad in order that 
the confusion of denomination and signification — from which at this congress 
difficulties repeatedly arose — may be prevented in future." 

Let us do our part in the support of the International Office and in helping in 
the compendium for which the need is expressed above, and when the Congress 
of 191 5 is held let us see to it that America is more largely represented than in 

1913- 

Louise Stanley. 



FOURTH INTERNATIONAL CONGRESS ON SCHOOL 

HYGIENE. 

The Fourth International Congress on School Hygiene, the first meeting of this 
Congress on American soil, was held at Buffalo, New York, August 25 to 30. The 
meetings were held under the patronage of President Wilson, and the general ses- 
sions were presided over by Charles \V. Eliot, president emeritus of Harvard Uni- 
versity. The meetings were full of interest and were attended by delegates from 
fifteen foreign countries in addition to those from the United States and Canada. 
The program was divided into three sections, (i) The Hygiene of School Buildings, 



386 The Journal oj Home Economics [October 

Grounds, Material, Equipment and Up-Keep; (2) The Hygiene of School Admin- 
istration, Curriculum and Schedule; and (3) Medical, Hygienic and Sanitary Super- 
vision of Schools. The sections were subdivided as follows: Section i: School 
buildings and their equipment; Open-air schools; The ventilation, heating and 
cleaning of school buildings. Section 2: Status of school hygiene and methods of 
instruction in city, village and countr>' schools; Instruction in hygiene; Fatigue 
and nervousness in school children; Mental hygiene and the hygiene of the mentally 
abnormal child; Play and athletics; School hygiene in relation to the home and the 
community. Section 3: Medical inspection; School nurses and school clinics; 
The exciting and contributory causes of disease and physical defects in school 
children; Crippled children; The conservation of vision; Symposium on health; 
supervision of coUege and university students; Symposium on oral hygiene; Sym- 
posium on school feeding; Symposium on school illumination; Symposium on sex 
hygiene; S>Tnposium on tuberculosis among school children; S>Tnposium on child 
labor; S>Tnposium on mental hygiene. In addition to the above sessions there were 
general open meetings, conferences, clinics, and consultations. 

The exhibits from the various states and from Mexico and Sweden were most 
interesting. There was a good showing of illustrative material for use in teaching 
home economics, the exhibit attracting the most attention being the charts pre- 
pared by Dr. C. F. Langworthy, shown as they are used in the Buffalo schools, 
set in a deep frame and hinged, so that only one chart is shown at one time. 

The symposium on school feeding was arranged by the School Lunch Committee 
of the American Home Economics Association. Miss Caroline L. Hunt presided 
at the sessions and Mrs. Lucian Hovre and Miss Euphemia Diem were the vice- 
chairmen. Mrs. Louise Stevens Bryant, secretary of the session was imable to be 
present on account of iUness, and Miss Alice C. Boughton acted as secretary. The 
following papers were read: "History and Present Status of the School Feeding 
Movement," Louise Stevens Br>'ant, Philadelphia (read by Dr. Lucas); "Medical 
Inspection and the Nutrition of School Children," Ira S. Wile, New York; "Mal- 
nutrition and Mental Defectives," Helen MacMurchy, Toronto; "Special Studies in 
Correlation of Malnutrition and Disease," John Aulde,M.D., Philadelphia; "Train- 
ing of School Dietitians," Caroline L. Hunt, Washington; "Administration of 
School Lunches in Cities," Alice C. Boughton, Philadelphia; " Relation of Menus 
to Standard Dietaries," Mabel Hyde Kittredge, New York; "The Educational 
and Social Possibilities of School Feeding," Mary E. L. Small, Buffalo; "Warm 
Lunches in Rural Schools," Mary L. Bull, St. Paul; "History and Development of 
Lunches in High Schools," Julia Pulsifer, Boston; "High School Lunches under 
School Board Control," Emma Smedley, Philadelphia; and the following paper 
was read by title: "Cantines Scholaires," by Leon Meyer, Medical Inspector, 
Schools of Paris. 

There were many social features to the Congress, evening receptions at the 
Twentieth Century Club, the University Club, the Buffalo Club; an automobile 
trip followed by tea at the country clubs; a trip to Niagara Falls; a luncheon for 
the School Lunch Session at the Chapter House, the club house of the women 
teachers association of the public schools, and many informal entertainments at 
private homes. 

The next meeting of the Congress will be held at Brussels, Belgium, in 1915. 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Home, Institution, School 

EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR 

Mrs. Mary H. Abel Keturah E. Baldwin 

EDITORIAL BOARD 

Benj. R. A^^)REWS C. F. Langworthy 

Isabel Ely Lord 

COLLABORATORS 
The Officers and Members of the Council 

Vol. V DECEMBER, 1913 No. 5 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

"American cooken^. By an American orphan" Frontispiece 

^fan power, organization and rewards, Annie Dewey 387 

Preparation for industrial vocation, ]\Ian,' E. Parker 3()7 

Standards of living, Ira S. Wile 409 

Home economics in social work, Winifred S. Gibbs 428 

Two years as a domestic educator in Buffalo, X. Y.. >[rs. Annie L. Hansen 433 
Home economics work in the General Federation of Women's Clubs, Helen 

Louise Johnson 437 

The training of the school dietitian, Lillian A. Kemp 442 

Report of the committee on laundry management of the Institutions Eco- 
nomics Section 445 

"American cookerj'. By an American orphan."' Benjamin R. .\ndrews. .. . 454 

Editorials .' 455 

Bibliography of Home Economics Literature 459 

Books and Literature 464 

Books received 474 

News from the field 475 

Changes in the publications of the United States Department of .\griculture 483 



The Journal «\ Home Economics is published five times durint' the ye:ir, tebruarj-. .April, 
June, October. December, by the .American Home Economics .Association. 

$2.00 A YEAR. FOREIGN S2.25. SINGLE COPIES 50 CENTS. 

HOW TO REMIT. Remittances should be sent by Draft on New York. Express Order, or 
Postal Money Order, payable to the .American Home Economics Association. Currency, unless 
mailed in a registered letter, is at the sender's risk. 

CH.AXGE IX .ADDRESS. Notice of change in address should be sent Two Weeks before 
the date of issue on which the change is to take effect. The change cannot be made unless the 
subscriber's Old Address is clearly indicated in addition to the New Address. 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 
Roland Park Branch. Baltimore, Md. 

Entered as second class matter at the Baltimore Post Office. 



"'ri^pfsm^mfm 



? 1-3 



-- c = > 



2 c - 3 



4) — 

- - = ^ ?^ t*"= 






'-^' O .i C ~ :- — . _ ■S' tri'^ _ • 



2 ■? '■S ! 



'-5,2 = 









S rr' ^' -. rt rt « 






lie 

r3 = 



4. O i 



~ aj M 

•ii = ft, 

- o = 

=». ^ 

o 






c ■— t- .!2 



s 'S ^ - = ij --^ 

c •- „ — . <t w a 
J3 =» is « '^ '9 

'■■ — i, C fc 

ifi ^ c .= *^ 

"' C « n!^ 

ii 9 o V 



£ i. = 



to I 



c e: « 



-S 3 



■i - a -'. 






= 1^5-^ 

fe -3 s -, a> 
O i' <^ ^ fe 



- ^ c.^ ^t: = 



h =•= 



- o 






^^^ 

c--^ 



C 5. •- 

« T 



C ij 3 






■" 4) j^ 5> * 

tc •», ~ =: cu 

rt "3 Ji W "1 



>^ 




c 


c: 






w 


o 




^ 


^ 


02 


o 
o 


C 




u 


b. 


o a 




O 


B^ < 


^ 






< 


< 

n 




H-t 


fc« 




25 






a 




^; 


»p^ 




< 



•o PC ec 

e ■<: ft. 
6 H c 



< f f 




5 & 



THE 

Journal ^/Home Economics 

Vol. V. DECEMBER, 1913 No. 5 

MAN POWER, ORGANIZATION, AND REWARDS.^ 
Annie Dewey. 

Lake Placid Club. 

The tremendous development in eflSciency during the last few years 
has been almost wholly concentrated on industrial and commercial 
enterprises. The recent reading of a dozen or more books and pam- 
phlets on these new methods of management, suggested bringing 
together in concise form such principles as seemed readily adapt- 
able to our institution economics and other organizations which are 
not primarily for profit-making. 

Every human being is a self contained motor which derives its own 
power or energy from the food eaten. The forces in a man, which 
really control the human machine, are his will, his desires, and his 
motives. Like electricity, this man power is not a visible force and 
the term efficiency which is used for the electric current has been 
transferred very generally to human achievement. 

An ordinary machine like the steam engine uses only 6 to 10 per 
cent of the total heat value of the fuel for external work, while an 
electric motor frequently utilizes 90 per cent of the energy supplied 
to it. The human mechanism is superior to other machines because 
it is intelligent and self-directing and by properly exercising these 
powers it can increase the amount and effectiveness of its work. 

This man power may spend itself in mere muscular or brute force 
which shovels ore and loads pig iron, or it may take higher forms of 

^Presented at the Sixth Annual Meeting of the American Home Economics Asso- 
ciation, Ithaca, 1 9 13. 

387 



388 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

energy in which the brain is the central power house, sending out cur- 
rents which direct the building of bridges, railroads, tunnels and canals. 
Muscular effort may be stimulated by the lash, while the higher brain 
power is dependent on ideals, one single creative thought sometimes 
having greater value than all the labor of centuries. It is the in- 
visible which makes the nation. The educated, trained men who pos- 
sess this brain power as a rule do not have the normal appetite of 
the man who works out of doors with his hands and imder our usual 
living conditions, for their comfort and convenience require their 
fuel in more expensive forms — sixty cents or more a day for raw food 
materials, with houses and general living conditions to correspond, 
while the peons digging the great drainage canal in Mexico lived on 
three cents a day. Italians, Bohemians and many foreigners are 
satisfied with ten to twenty cents, while our average American work- 
man demands at least twenty-five cents a day for food alone. With 
the lower or muscular form of energy, it is quantity of work which 
counts; with the higher brain power it is quality for which men pay 
the price. Between the two there is a wide field where both physical 
and mental are equally necessary, but with all grades, the whole out- 
put is controlled by that invisible, intangible, indescribable ego-will 
(or ego-won't) which is largely a matter of inheritance but may be 
cultivated and developed with right environment. 

Many experiments have been made by physiologists who were 
studying the endurance of the human animal and by engineers who 
wished to determine what fraction of a horse-power a man-power was 
(i. e., how many foot pounds of work a man could do in a day) but 
so far no law has been discovered which is an accurate guide to a maxi- 
mum day's work for a first class workman. On some kinds of labor 
a man would be tired out in doing one-eighth horse-power while on 
others he would be no more tired by doing one-half horse-power of 
work. Finally, by graphic charts, representing each element of the 
work in curves which gave a bird's eye view, a world old law govern- 
ing the tiring effect of heavy labor on a first class man was re-dis- 
covered and applied to this particular case and, says Mr. Taylor, "It 
is so simple in its nature that it is truly remarkable that it should not 
have been discovered and clearly understood years before." It cor- 
responds to the work of the cart horse rather than that of the trotter 
and requires that a man should be under load for only a definite per- 
centage of the day, and must be entirely free from load at frequent 
intervals, that is, rest must adequately balance exertion. 



1913] Man Power, Organization and Rewards 389 

Muscular energy no longer counts for much, for man has learned 
tx) make the forces of nature work for him at a fraction of the cost of 
human energy. Some startling figures are given by a leading effi- 
ciency engineer, Harrington Emerson,- in comparing man power with 
machinery. "A man with a spade requires 560 seasons to turn over 
one square mile of land, 640 acres. With team and plow he can do 
it in 4 seasons whDe 12 men with three mechanical tractors and 51 
plows in a gang can do the same work in 36 hours. Under these 
conditions, at $2 a day, man-power costs, per horse-power, $54,000 
per year of 7500 hours. In a small gasoline engine it costs $300 a 
year per horse-power; for large power installations, from $20 to $200 
a year. Therefore man-power (thus applied) costs from 130 to 1350 
times as much as uncarnate power. Thirty men, as men work, will 
yield one horse-power of energy each hour, but so will one to five 
poimds of coal. A ton of coal may be assumed to have the energy 
of five men for a whole year. On an average each adult man may be 
supplemented by twenty-two mechanical slaves whose keep is less than 
i-4ooth of his own value at $2 a day." 

With men as with machines, unless every need and law is lived up 
to, they will refuse to work efficiently, often refuse to work at all. 
Therefore the first essential which makes possible the development 
of this power, in whatever form, is health — physical, mental, and 
moral — which depends on heredity, training and environment. By 
intensive agriculture, by perfecting seed and enriching soil, man has 
succeeded in raising five times as many potatoes per acre as the aver- 
age for certain states and ten times as many as the average for the 
United States. With selected seed, fifty bushels per acre of wheat 
is considered as easily attainable where the actual yield has been only 
fourteen bushels. WTiether potatoes or wheat, whether a grain of 
corn or a giant oak, each produces its kind, the value depending on 
soil and seed, but more than all else on the man who plants under- 
standingly and believes in the possibilities of the crop. This germ 
of power, which exists in every human being, may be cultivated with 
even greater results. Its native soil is the home and on the living 
conditions and habits of life formed there depend the fuller devel- 
opment of this power which controls all other forces and is our most 
valuable possession. 

Statistics show that in institution homes for children, however 

*TweIve Principles of Efficiency. New York, 1913. 



39© The Journal of Home Economics [December 

perfect the care, infant mortality is greater than in individual homes. 
It may be true that the instinctive love of parents for their young, and 
the personal influence, have some power like sunshine which nour- 
ishes and develops vitality, but the home which cares for health, for 
physical power only, has failed in its highest mission. It is in the de- 
velopment of character, in habits of industry, truth, and sincerity, 
in that mental and spiritual energy which enables man to harness the 
forces of nature and to control them, to master his own passions and 
weakness, to guide, instruct and lead others, that his highest power 
can be attained. 

Organization. 

A new science of management, a new philosophy of labor has arisen 
which its advocates believe is destined to revolutionize our indus- 
trial system, with results as great as those which followed the trans- 
ition from hand to machine production. Its growth has been a 
natural evolution. Conservation of natural possessions suddenly 
called attention to the limitless waste of human material going on 
everywhere in the world. Out of this grew the movement towards 
vocational guidance and this gave rise to scientific management in 
commerce and industry. 

It aims to secure: 

(i) The greatest degree of prosperity for both employers and em- 
ployees. 

(2) High wages for workmen, with low labor cost for employers 
sharing the benefit of lower cost of production with the consumers, 
the whole people, who really pay both wages and profits and in the 
end gain most from industrial improvements. 

(3) The development of the science of the work, standardizing 
both equipment and working conditions. This means knowing in 
advance "what work is to be done, how it shall be done, when it shall 
be done, and what it shall cost. The whole realm of science is brought 
to the aid of the humblest workman and the man is considered be- 
fore the dollar." 

(4) Scientific selection of workmen with reference to their mental 
aptitudes, recognizing that no man will be skilled, contented, or happy 
at work for which he is not fitted. Pleasure in work, psychical in- 
fluence, should make a man want to do a thing as it should be done. 

(5) The elimination of wastes of aU kinds, materials, time and 
human energy. 



19 13] Man Power, Organization and Rewards 391 

(6) Bringing together the best workers and the science of the work, 
with constant help and watchfidness of optimistic, tactful and de- 
termined leaders, possessing high ideals and sense of justice, who in- 
spire the spirit of cooperation which makes both men and management 
move as one irresistible body. The executive sounds the keynote 
for his department. His power of getting work out of people, his 
business efl5ciency, depends on his power of supplying them with 
ideals. If he is ineflScient his whole staff is demoralized. 

(7) A definite task and a definite premium or bonus for all who, 
by special skill, perseverance, and intelligent following of instructions, 
accompUsh results greater than the average laborer. 

For success in adopting this new theory of production, the organi- 
zation must be exactly adapted to the needs of the special work and 
one can not serve as a model for another where conditions vary. 

The first essential in a good organization is a definite plan or ideal, 
then competent and forceful men, each selected solely with reference 
to his aptitude for the work required, whether as head or subordi- 
nate. There should be a logical, convenient arrangement of equip- 
ment, and proper environment not merely as a question of pleasant 
surroimdings for employees but as a financial investment which pays. 

The anatomy of an organization should be charted graphically show- 
ing the logical divisions of authority and expense. This should be 
done at the start. "If a man does not know where he is going, how 
can he choose the best road?" 

The work should be analyzed, simplified, and each position clearly 
defined as to its duties, responsibilities and relations to other parts 
of the work. There should be standardized conditions and written 
standard-practice instructions. Oral orders cause confusion. Any 
large undertaking run without such instructions has Uttle chance 
for progressive advance. The specifications of the purchasing de- 
partment of the U. S. Navy are probably the most complete and modern 
directions ever printed, and cover every detail from construction of 
the ship's hulls to a dish cloth. Thousands of leaflets, planned and 
perfected by graduates of Annapolis, have been printed. 

Every large organization should have a well equipped employment 
department in charge of expert character analysts who know the qual- 
ifications required for each kind of work and who select for each posi- 
sition the best obtainable human material. "The cause of waste," 
says Dr. Katherine Blackford, "lies in ignorance of human aptitude 
and the requirements for different kinds of work. A man is valu- 



392 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

able in proportion to the thought, the psychical inspiration, and the 
happiness he puts into his work. A man doing work he does not 
love lacks enthusiasm, spontaneity, interest and concentration — 
therefore efl&ciency." Those who are familiar with Dr. Blackford's re- 
markable success in formulating and applying the principles of sci- 
entific character analysis, know that she has laid tribute on many 
sciences. To her everything about a man indicates his character, 
since the body is the soul's equipment, without which the mind could 
not function. Blondes and brunettes, convex and concave faces, 
eyes, hair, the hand, handwriting, language, voice, gesture, walk, all 
have meaning, since expression tells what a man has done with his 
inherited qualities and what habits he has acquired. 

The great factors in organization are the materials, methods, ma- 
chines, money and men. Recognizing that the men are by far the 
most important, many investigations have been carried on in the 
Harvard psychological laboratory in recent years, the problem being to 
analyze definite economic tasks with reference to the mental qualities 
which are necessary or desirable for them, and to find methods by 
which these quahties can be tested. In "Psychology and Industrial 
Efficiency" Prof. Miinsterberg describes many well planned experi- 
ments for testing such quahties as attention, memory, imagination, in- 
telligence, judgment, space-sense, time-sense, abiUty to learn, etc. In 
judging the power of quick perception by quick response, the time 
between the mental stimulus and the reaction can be measured in 
thousandths of a second. Some typesetters never get beyond the 2500- 
em class, others with no more personal effort can set 5000 ems. 

In the use of a well-known type setting machine iL was "oirnd that 
speed depended on the abiUty to remember a large number of words 
before they are set, rather than on quickness of finger action, the same 
being true of typewriting. With the aid of the ergograph and graphic 
charts, progress in learning telegraphy and typewriting is traced, 
each stroke of a key, each completion of word or line, each glance at 
copy being recorded in exact time relations. Even mental fatigue 
can be accurately tested by use of the kymograph and graphic records. 
The need now is to secure definite norms and standards. In select- 
ing human assistants, education, training, and physical strength are 
not so important as the inner attitudes, proclivities, and character, 
which after all determine the man or woman. 

The psychologic element enters into almost every act of life. A 
large department store in which the expense of delivery was much 



1913] Man Power, Organization and Rewards 393 

too heavy, instructed its hundreds of saleswomen, after every sale 
of moderate sized articles, to ask, "Will you take it with you?" in 
place of "May we send it to you?" This simple suggestion materi- 
ally reduced the cost of delivery the foUo-^dng year. Experiments 
with motormen, and with ship and telephone service, show that those 
who are most successful in passing the tests, feel a distinct joy in the 
experiment while the others pass through painful moments of physi- 
cal discomfort. 

The cost of misfits (from office boy to president), of men who are 
physically, mentally, morally, and industrially unsuited to their work, 
is far greater than is usually realized, A man at 100 per cent effi- 
ciency doing 3000 hours of normal work would take 3000 hours, cost- 
ing S2100 for example, but a man of 30 per cent efficiency would take 
10,000 hours, costing $7000, the loss due to inefficiency being $4900 
on one man. At 80 per cent efficiency the loss is $525 per man. Effi- 
ciency tests among wage earners in the same plant, under the same 
conditions and foremen, have shown variations between 30 and 120 
per cent. By eliminating the men of lowest power, by defining 
clearly the ideals and duties of the work, and by character analysis, 
it is possible to increase efficiency 50-100 per cent. 

Prof. Miinsterberg suggests that, as many factories already employ 
scores of scientifically trained chemists and physicists, so profession- 
ally trained psychologists might become economically an important 
factor in a business organization. Increase in industrial efficiency 
is in the interest of both employers and employees, whose time can 
be reduced, wages increased, and level of life raised, with cultural 
gain to the economic life of the nation, as soon as every one can be 
brought to the place where his best energies may be unfolded and his 
greatest personal satisfaction secured. 

Economic experimental psychology offers no more inspiring ideal 
than this adjustment of work by which mental dissatisfaction, de- 
pression and disco\iragement, may be replaced in our social commu- 
nity by overflowing joy and perfect inner harmony. 

The ideal employment department will keep accurate records of 
the performance of every man and should establish a minimum wage. 
The cooperation of every worker, no matter how obscure his position, 
should be secured and interest in the welfare of the work as a whole 
be instilled. He should be familiar with the qualities considered 
ideal for his job, and should be inspired to strive for their attainment. 
Treat a man as a mere cog in the wheel and he will very likely be con- 



394 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

tent to do as little work as possible and still draw his pay, with no 
thought of bettering conditions in his department. 

Suggestion boxes are desirable, asking workmen to write out any 
improvement for the benefit of the work as a whole. Marshall Field 
& Co. have found it extremely profitable to oSer their employees $i 
for each suggestion that is finally adopted. Many systems, good 
in theory, have failed when forced upon the workers, and conditions 
have been made worse than before the systems were attempted, while 
with cooperation they might have succeeded. Changes are seldom 
resented when advice is asked and the foreman is made to feel that 
he is responsible for them. 

Recognizing efficiency as a world wide need and ideal, and accept- 
ing the general methods of scientific management, Mr. Harrington 
Emerson, in "The Twelve Principles of Efi&ciency," has developed a 
system of organization with high ethical and altruistic ideals, adopting 
the line and staff model which the Prussian army used so success- 
fully in 1870. These principles almost without exception, may well 
be applied to our institution economics or other enterprises, whether 
for profit or philanthropic purposes. 

These twelve principles of efficiency are: 

(i) Clearly defined ideals. 

(2) Common sense. 

(3) Competent counsel. 

(4) Discipline. 

(5) The fair deal. 

(6) Records — reliable, immediate, adequate, and permanent. 

(7) Despatching. 

(8) Standards and schedules. 

(9) Standardized conditions. 

(10) Standardized operations. 

(11) Written standard practice instructions. 

(12) Efi&ciency rewards. 

When this new science is understood, public sentiment, the whole 
people, will insist that justice shall be done to them as consumers, as 
well as to the producers of wealth. It will demand the highest effi- 
ciency from both employers and employees. It will no longer tolerate 
attempts to drive men into harder work for lower pay, neither will 
it tolerate tyranny on the part of labor which demands shorter hours 
and one increase after another in pay, while at the same time it be- 
comes less efficient. The sole aim should be the attainment of justice 
for all, through impartial scientific investigation of all the elements of 



1913] Man Power, Organization and Rewards 395 

the problem. Scientific management makes a complete change in 
the mental attitude of both capital and labor toward each other and 
toward their duties and responsibilities. It means intimate and 
friendly cooperation, the development of each man to his highest 
power. It would increase both the necessaries and comforts of life, 
shorten hours of labor, add opportunities for education, culture, and 
recreation, and would eliminate most of the causes for dispute and dis- 
agreement between men and management. 

Many criticisms are made of the new methods: that the system is 
top-heaxy, requires too many high priced supervisors and pushes the 
laborer beyond endurance; but, leaving these aside, there is still enough 
in its ideals — the fair deal, cooperation, records, standards, directions, 
stopping waste, fitting aptitudes to opportunities, and fair rewards — 
to warrant the belief that its general adoption would develop the 
working man to his greatest efficiency and prosperity. 

Rewards. 

How shall the worker whose labor exceeds the minimum stand- 
ard wage, be rewarded? 

(i) Profit sharing has been tried and proved unsuccessful. Em- 
ployees overestimate profits by not considering fixed expenses, de- 
preciation, and general financial conditions of the coimtry. It is 
vmfair to share profits and not share losses. 

(2) Piece wages are a premium on quantity rather than quality of 
work and require careful inspection. Piece rates are likely to be cut 
because increased output is due to expensive machinery, not to work- 
man's skill. Piece work is a premium on strenuousness, which means 
greater effort, while efficiency means less effort for the same result. 
Piece wages are opposed by labor organizations. 

(3) The premium or bonus system of wage payment theoreti- 
cally shares the result of increased efficiency among employer, em- 
ployee, and consumer, and is the best yet devised. 

The Government has standardized the dollar, so that commer- 
cially there is exchange and equivalence, but in industrial equivalency 
we are still in the dark ages, though many methods have been 
evolved for paying variable wages for varying efficiencies. One sys- 
tem, probably the latest, has been tried and tested on a gigantic scale, 
one corporation ha\'ing paid, in 1908, over $600,000 in premiums 
under this plan which has been called the individual effort system. 



396 The Journal oj Home Economics [December 

It is based on the idea of buying labor or service on specification, there 
being a basic price with a premium for results superior to the speci- 
fication, as in buying coal on specification. Overtime is considered 
a great evil as no man working persistently overtime can attain high 
average efficiency. Experiments have shown that fully 50 per cent 
more work can be turned out per man and machine if all the methods, 
machines, and men are toned up. 

Until time and quality specifications or some form of equivalency 
is established for different kinds of work, the score card may serve 
as a temporary expedient, being in fact a brief statement of specifi- 
cations and the ideals required for the job. Some sixty or more qual- 
ities which contribute to the success of the world's workers, vary in 
importance as the work varies. In addition, each human being, each 
individual motor is governed by his will, his ego or spiritual keynote, 
which sets a limit to his powers and is the ultimate measure of his 
capacity. It is this invisible quality for which we most need a meas- 
ure, for it is the main spring of human action which gives the power 
to conquer difficulties, to use obstacles as stepping-stones, to hold to 
ideals. Some day science will doubtless give us this unit, perhaps in 
a form as simple as the thumb print which may identify the criminal 
or the pulsations of the heart which may prove whether the witness 
speaks truth or falsehood. 

"The day wage system is doomed, for the whole tendency of the 
times, the whole teaching of the ages, demands a definite equivalent 
for labor; and our ability to measure accurately both quantity and qual- 
ity is one of the measures of civilization." It is unjust that the reward 
of excellence should be denied the worker. Men are no more alike, 
nor more equal than are the stars and planets, than are men and women ; 
and nature never intended they should be alike. For generations 
there will still be many of the world's incompetents, and the sugges- 
tion that the government establish a minimum wage at which employ- 
ment in national works, reclamation of arid lands, harbor dredging, 
canals, and highways would be always open, would do away forever 
with the disgrace of the bread line. 

The introduction of machinery for hand labor was from the very 
start opposed by the massses, as taking bread from the mouths of 
their children; but industrial history shows that in the end, the whole 
people receive the greater benefit coming from industrial improve- 
ments. 

It is not through ignorance, revolution, fanaticism, and destruc- 



1913] Preparation for Industrial Vocation 397 

tion that man rises to fuller powers and richer life. The things of the 
spirit, the in\-isible forces which make men great, are developed by 
education, evolution, soimd judgment, and constructive measures. 
The supreme factor in such development is the home. As Mrs. 
Richards said years ago, "The future of America does not he in rail- 
roads, in machines, in commerce, in agriculture. The future of our 
repubUc will be determined by the character of the American homes." 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

RiCHABDS, Mrs. Ellen H: Wanted, a test of man-power. 
Emerson, Harrington: Twelve Principles of Efficiency. 

Efficiency as a Basis for Operation and Wages 
The Creation of an Organization with Special Refer- 
ence to Personnel. 
Blackford, Dr. Katherlne M. H. : Scientific Selection and Assignment of Men 

in the Creation of an Organization. 
Gavitt, H. I. : Training Workmen in Habits of Industry and Cooperation. 
Griffith, J^vmes B.: Administration and Industrial Organization. Vol. i Cy- 
clopedia of Commerce, Accountancy, Business Administration. 
Goldmark, JoSEPmNE: Fatigue and Efficiency. 
Meade, E. S.: Modem Business. Economics. 
MUnsterberg, Hugo: Psychology and Industrial Efficiency. 
Taylor, Frank W.: Scientific Management. Shop Management. 

PREPARATION FOR INDUSTRIAL VOCATION.^ 

Mary E. Parker. 
William Penn High School, Philadelphia. 

This paper does not deal with the problem of the girl of fourteen 
who cannot go to the high school, but with the girl of eighteen who 
is able to complete the four years' course in the new technical high 
schools such as we have in Philadelphia. It will discuss the prepara- 
tion for the trades and industries and will attempt to answer the 
question, "Is the average modern technical high school for girls real- 
ly a vocational school, and to what extent does it prepare for indus- 
trial vocations?" 

It is generally assumed that a technical high school for boys gives 
the sort of training which has immediate economic value, and many 
parents are hoping that a course in a similar school for girls will enable 

^ Presented at the Sixth Annual Meeting of the American Home Economics 
Association, Ithaca, 1913. 



398 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

the graduate to enter at once upon self-maintenance at a fair wage. 
In any attempt to prepare for industrial life, the technical high school 
for girls has a much more difl&cult problem than the similar school 
for boys. Boys are to be prepared for certain definite, and often 
local vocations in which their service is to be to a greater or less degree 
permanent. Most of the girls, however, are to go only temporarily 
into a much more limited number of vocations, and ultimately into 
one distinctly domestic. Since our pubUc schools owe their finan- 
cial support to the accepted principle that the body politic taxes itself, 
not primarily to serve the individual, but to further the best perma- 
nent good of the social organism as a whole, it follows logically that 
the public school should give to its girls that sort of training which 
will broaden their lives and also make them capable of the highest 
degree of permanent economic efficiency. The years of a girl's eco- 
nomic independence are few in comparison with the years in which 
she will probably spend the large proportion of her own family 
income for the necessities of food, clothing, and shelter; and this fact 
looms so large that, fortunately or unfortunately, according to the 
point of view, in many individual cases it overshadows the need for 
an immediate means of self-support. 

It is the purpose in this paper to discuss the question of the prepa- 
ration of the high school girl for industrial life not in an abstract or 
general way, but definitely in the Hght of our experience in the William 
Penn High School for Girls in Philadelphia, and so I must be more or 
less personal, and will frankly tell of our difficulties as well as indi- 
cate some of the encouraging features of our work. On general prin- 
ciples, the optimistic and constructive attitude of mind is the more 
productive, but there are times when frank recognition of difficulties 
is salutary, particularly when people are at work on what is still a 
new problem. 

The William Penn High School is, in the pedagogical parlance of 
the day, of the type called "cosmopolitan." The nucleus of it was 
the large and successful Commercial School for Girls, but when the 
school was entirely reorganized and moved into its great new build- 
ing, other courses were added. Now it sends, each half year, a num- 
ber of girls to the city Normal School; each year its college entrance 
class is larger and a steadily increasing number of girls elect the Home 
Economics course, from which it has just graduated its first class. 
Since, however, the Commercial School was for years highly success- 
ful in fitting its graduates for self-support and placing them at once 



1913] Preparation for hidustrial Vocation 399 

in good positions, the enrollment of the school at present is over- 
whelmingly commercial, and the girl who looks forvN'ard to immedi- 
ate self-support as soon as she graduates sees in the commercial sub- 
jects a preparation for a vocation in which the supply never seems 
to equal the demand, a vocation which, even before she receives her 
diploma, offers to her a fair wage. Such a course is, in the strictest 
sense of the word, "vocational," and sends a girl out ready to earn 
at once a fair livelihood. 

In the definitions of vocational education which accompany some 
of the recent legal enactments, courses in cookery and seeing are 
grouped with vocational subjects, probably on the ground that home- 
making is in truth a very definite vocation and should be recognized 
as such; but it seems ad\'isable not to use the term in connection with 
the technical courses in public high schools for girls, but to use, in- 
stead, the words "Home Economics." A good many parents may 
be somewhat in doubt as to the exact meaning of "Economics," but 
at any rate it suggests getting the most out of what one puts in when 
one has to do with home-making. The popular meaning of "voca- 
tion," on the contrary, is pretty clear to the average person; and the 
word stands for the kind of daily activity which brings to the worker 
the wherewithal to live. The natural inference, then, is that a course, 
calling itself vocational, prepares directly for specific vocations out- 
side the home. There is in that term at least an implicit promise 
which cannot be fulfilled, that is to say, the average technical high 
school for girls does not prepare its graduates for immediate self- 
support on a scale such as to make it rank with the commercial course 
in vocational value. Accordingly, as each half year has brought its 
entering class of five himdred or more, we have met them all and told 
them of the possibilities there are in the various fields, but if a girl 
decided to elect this course, we have said, without any attempt at 
concealment, that a girl who feels that she must support herself as 
soon as the four years' course ends could not expect to earn a wage 
which would be equal to that earned by her friend who had elected 
the commercial course. She has been told, however, that if she could 
give two additional years to study or a kind of apprenticeship, the 
vocational possibilities would be more varied and the remuneration 
more generous. 

Our course is rather more academic than is generally given in schools 
called technical, but it does not seem that an increase in the amoimt 
of technical work would by any means solve the problem. The most 

! DEPARTMENT 
Lb- 

t r \ r L I , / I I ^ C r* 1 IT W P fi! 



400 The Journal oj Home Economics [December 

difficult elements of the situation would still remain, and it is a high- 
ly significant fact that our teachers of technical subjects, who are 
themselves experienced, intelligent women, with a broad outlook up- 
on life, strongly oppose any increase in the amount of technical work 
because such increase would necessarily mean a curtailing of the aca- 
demic work. For genuine permanent efficiency, they feel that it is 
a kind of penny-wise economy to develop a high degree of tech- 
nique at the expense of a girl's general education. Furthermore we 
are agreed that the difficulty Hes not so much within the school as 
without. It is a difficult thing, in a four years' high school course to 
make education the exact thing which the industrial world wants, 
and it is not easy, on the other hand, to prove to the industrial and 
professional world the value to them of the thing which we think worth 
while for the girl. In some vocations it is hard to persuade people 
that a girl of eighteen has sufficient maturity to undertake work for 
which we think she is trained. The most difficult element of the 
problem still remains in the fact that few girls of eighteen are actually 
mature enough to fill the positions which are desirable, offer a fair 
stipend, and involve corresponding responsibility. 

At the very core of the matter lies our chief difficulty. The body 
politic taxes itself that its daughters may have that education which 
shall best "fit them for life," and for the majority of them this should 
include preparation for permanent economic efficiency in the home. 
On this account it is pretty generally agreed that the school supported 
by pubhc taxation ought to teach the needlecrafts and the wisest 
use of food materials; but right here we are met by the obstinate fact 
that there are in average communities only a few really desirable op- 
portunities open to girls of eighteen who have had such training. The 
high school graduate who wishes to specialize in dressmaking is not 
mature enough to enter upon a position in charge of other workers or 
to take alone the responsibility of handUng other people's materials, 
but she is too mature and too intelligent to accept the monotonous, 
highly specialized work, long hours, uncongenial surroundings, and 
small pay of the workshop, which would, in passing, irk far less the 
girl of sixteen, unless she has some rather unusual mental qualities. 
It is a well recognized fact that, the greater the need for immediate 
financial return, the smaller is the power to see future possibilities 
and the greater the impatience with present conditions; and we have 
felt that one of our chief duties to the few girls who went out from 
the school at the close of the last school year with the purpose of fol- 



1913] Preparation for Industrial Vocation 401 

lowing the dressmaker's trade, was to develop a mental attitude which 
should enable them to take long \'iews of their lives and work. If a 
girl can look upon a day's work as a necessary stepping stone, if she 
knows how to discriminate between having proper initiative, and 
being obnoxiously presuming, and if she has native ability, then our 
training will stand her in good stead. Our girls apparently, do appre- 
ciate this fact, and are wiUing to take what is open to them, knowing 
that if they make good, better things will come. 

Most pleasant relations have existed between the school and the 
great John Wanamaker store. The General Manager of the Phila- 
delphia store, with heads of several departments, has given our plans 
most courteous and considerate hearing; the director of all the John 
Wanamaker workrooms in Philadelphia and New York has visited 
our class rooms; they have offered to admit our girls under special 
arrangement, watching them closely and keeping a careful card cata- 
logue record of their progress; and yet all we can look for is an initial 
wage of S6.00 with an annual increase of a dollar a week until $9 a 
week is reached. They were particularly interested in some of our 
color work, and were very ready to admit that a girl who had had our 
training in dressmaking and in appUed art ought to prove a valuable 
worker. But even with this favorable consideration the initial wage 
is low, and it yet remains to be seen how well the plan will work. 

Private shops offer no better inducements, and probably the most 
promising immediate opening is the opportimity to assist a good dress- 
maker who goes from house to house by the day. Work of this kind 
carried on independently, a little later, will probably attract a good 
many girls, but this, too, has its drawbacks and only a girl in this free 
country of ours who is of large caHbre and unusual independence will 
accept with equanimity the social position which results. As a good 
dressmaker said to one of our own department last month, speaking 
of her next engagement, "I always go to the table ^v-ith the family 

when I go there, but Mr never lets me forget that I am the 

family seamstress." 

Some of the responsible positions in the dressmaking trade are very 
good, but they are not numerous enough to be seriously considered, 
and are generally filled by experienced women who have proved their 
worth to their employers. Our only hope is that our girls, too, may 
prove their worth, and do so in a shorter time on account of the train- 
ing they have had. In fact, every technical high school has highly 
encouraging successes to prove what can be done, but it does not seem 



402 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

probable that the number is sufficiently large to warrant us in hold- 
ing out the hope that such good fortune will befall every girl. 

Looking now to the vocations open to a graduate who has special- 
ized in cooking, we find that she is admirably qualified to earn for 
herself at once a weekly equivalent of more than the business girl 
receives, if she will go out as cook or housemaid, but one does not 
need to say that this is absolutely out of the question. 

In Liverpool I was interested in a school of domestic science which 
took the girls, as soon as they left school at fourteen, and gave them 
a good solid year of practical work in cooking, sewing, laundry, and 
housewifery. It was the first city I visited in a year devoted to the 
study of this very problem, and here seemed to be at once a highly 
promising situation. Very hopefully I asked the question as to what 
the girls did, who went out from schools of this type, and could scarce- 
ly believe my ears when the answer came, "Some stay at home, but 
most of them become typewriters." It happened that the little girls 
worked there during the school day and went to evening schools for 
commercial branches. They were wise enough to see that there was 
no place for them in the commercial world until they were at least 
sixteen, and wise enough also to see the ultimate advantage of a year 
spent at the Princes' Road School. A Roman Catholic school doing 
splendid work in the same city made a similar report and the Mother 
Superior said, "We do succeed in turning a few of the little girls into 
domestic service, but most of them go either into offices or factories. 
It is such a pity, for our housekeepers need them and they themselves 
would be so much better off." 

Any form of domestic service for high school graduates is at present 
hopelessly out of the question, in fact one teacher has been sharply 
criticised by other teachers in the school, for encouraging a very 
gentle, fine young girl to go to a simple, small seashore bungalow 
to take the entire responsibility and do the work for a woman artist 
and her Uttle boy. This girl is thoroughly interested in her cook- 
ing, has much executive ability and initiative, and wishes to get prac- 
tical experience so that after a little more study she may become a 
professional caterer on a small scale — a field which several public 
spirited women of wealth have assured us is most promising in Phila- 
delphia. 

Some of our girls would be competent to fill a position as assistant 
to a dietitian in a hospital, but when graduates of the higher tech- 
nical schools can be found who are glad to accept the subordinate 



1913] Preparation for Industrial Vocation 403 

position, it is not strange that authorities have more confidence in 
them. Some could do exceedingly well under guidance in dietary 
work among the very poor, and some of them know their work well 
enough to teach cooking or sewing, but standards have been set and 
girls w^ho have had two more years of training are none too good for 
our great public schools. 

Yet the wish that they were older than eighteen was expressed in 
the case of two or three girls who applied for positions in the Phila- 
delphia High School lunch rooms. 

So much for our problems. It remains to make clear first what 
our high school does to give the girls a general education, and then, 
what we are doing to increase their efl&ciency along lines which ought 
to prove of distinct economic advantage to them later as they be- 
come self-supporting. 

The girls who graduate from the home economics course have had 
four years of excellent work in EngHsh, two of work in a foreign lan- 
guage, two of mathematics, three of laboratory science, one of physi- 
ology, three of history and municipal civics, one half year of economics, 
and one half year of home management, with a brief study of the 
training of children in the home. They have the essentials of a good 
education, and their fathers and brothers are surprised to find them 
entering intelligently into discussions of current topics and municipal 
problems. They have had enough instruction in cooking to enable 
them to prepare all the staple articles of a varied dietary, and they 
can serve semi-formal limcheons to "paying guests" who recognize the 
pupils' economic efl&ciency. They have catered for receptions and teas, 
served luncheons for the faculty and scores of outside guests, and 
sold many articles of food which they have made in class. In fact 
during the first half of last year, forty girls in the home economics 
course earned enough from their class work to pay over forty-five 
per cent of the total cost of the department of five hundred and 
fifty pupils. 

They can prepare suitable and appetizing food for the sick, plan 
a balanced menu for a given sum of money, and in small groups, with- 
out the supervision of any teacher, do the marketing, cookii^g, and 
serving of luncheons for "paying guests." They can test the foods 
which come into their homes, and buy their food materials with dis- 
crimination. They can design their own dresses, make a rather pro- 
fessional water color sketch of a dress, draft their own patterns, modi- 
fy comm^ercial patterns, and dress themselves attractively, modishly, 



404 TJte Journal of Home Economics [December 

and ^ith individuality at a minimum of expense. They can make their 
own hats, and do a score of useful and valuable things which can be 
done only by a girl trained in the courses of color and design. Each 
girl knows how to do her part in her own home and out of it to foster 
the health of the community, and she has had careful instruction, not 
only in personal hygiene, but in sex hygiene, and has been told in a 
frank, smiple, and wholesome way the things which a girl ought to 
know in order to make and keep her a healthy woman. 

The girls who intend to take up the dressmaking trade have been 
taught the fundamental principles of good dressmaking. They have 
designed their own dresses, drafted their own patterns, modified com- 
mercial patterns, handled materials of different texture, requiring 
different manipulation and diflterent line, and kept strict account of 
the cost of the different items. They have made a cotton dress, a 
tailored shirtwaist, a woolen dress, a set of fine underwear, a Peter 
Thompson suit, a silk or messaline dress, and a graduating dress. Our 
girls, of course, made their own dresses for graduation, and very chic 
and dainty creations their friends thought they were — simple, suit- 
able, inexpensive, but well made and exceedingly pretty. They have 
been required all along to depend largely on themselves; no work is 
taken home for mother to help out with, and we have discouraged 
any tendency to dawdle over work. One of our girls, who has one 
year more in school and had been honored with an invitation to be an 
usher at the Commencement exercises, came, after recitations were 
over, with material for a dress, saying that the other girls were going 
to "dress up," but that she had no dress suitable; her mother thought 
she could not afford to have one made, but had given her three dol- 
lars for material if she would make it herself. In two days and a half 
with almost no help from the teacher, she made herself a charming 
white dress with a blue messaline girdle. Another girl — a complete 
failure in commercial subjects — came to us absolutely hopeless in 
bookkeeping and stenography, and in one-half year of four broken 
short periods a week acquired a degree of skill which enabled her, dur- 
ing a part of the summer vacation, to earn ten dollars, making sim- 
ple dresses for her friends. No doubt a great many other girls 
could do that, but the fact remains that this particular girl has 
"touch," and, for one reason or another, has friends who believe in 
her and she created her own market. Probably few girls, however, 
have her initiative and general capability. 



1913J /V^oratfBM fm Imhairiai Vacatigm 405 

k^ schooL In Be^ggram, vlme probabfy tedada 

gais is better oigumBed tliui anyvliete dse, I vas _ : ur. 

aany offidai report as to tdhe en m l uyn i a it of the giris " 

professioDal 9diools» and vlioft tihe qpaeslbkn wasa^^ 

"MatDj teadi in sdioob fibe tihis^ msuty sKay at boc 

answer vas ghi«n in tdie Fuis Ecoks Professkwie . 

gadiered would lead one to bdMfc>e that the most ?- _. .^ 

which give indostdal tiainbig belong to one of two ^ i.»^, 

tfaosewhifchgnre a gooifiyShaie of general worib and 2.f -i- 

ties for tcchnkal woit: aftoer gndoalion, as is done 

fore^ schools^ or tiiose wUdk take the goA of finn: 

twelve, and fflve her a Biofflaun off general woA. izi ^ ^ 

of intfwsifc^ technical work. 

Jndfflng from present infriOTnatian^ it woold see: 
school lor gpis^wiudi rea% deserves the name v: 
of preparii^ gids for immedote self^DBuntenanrc 
Irdi^ Sdiool of Xeir Ycsk Gty. Hiat k one : 
great metrapofis; there is no other New York ir 
fevexydoobtfal whether this sdMiol^with all ite 5;. .1 

as a tnrpe or model which wcwid be acrgptalJe^aE ^> 

i^ in the majoratf of American towns and cities. 
smggytisti^'e, but it meets Cfwwfitinns wiiidi aie by ~ : ~ . - 

Jexsey Otp„ in her new h%;h school, is woddiqg out an innter^t- 
ing and very soggestive phtt-Hdhat of s^^iiqg nnder the samf? - 
^hort indostrial comae of two years and the r^golar ooraae . 
years. The principal is hqping that this ^hort csrarse wjl i,..-;..-. 
girls to the school wbo woold not otherwise come at all, and ir r 
of fearing, as riaiq^ do, that giris 11^ coold as wdl lernam ie: r 
fooDT }reais will be c«»tent with half that tfan^ he espeets, as : 
it, to'^ve^'gidsootof itfortbefoUcomse. la Phiifcwiiri^ 
very fikely in many odier cxtxes^, sodi apbn b not jost now i-: 
A short irtdostrial comse woidd probably grealfy iDDorease the K 
of the enterir^ class aiid as it is^ over a thoiosand g^ each yci, - 
to be aocomrnndated for the first tggmoBBtsideldltfc main bMphdfc^ 

Tbe a|ipeal of the mitiaiiied gU of fenrteen who has to go tK» work 
at once, or can at best stay in school onfy m&til she is gahteCT>„ is very 
stTOi«. It b probably trw, that she win not lemamln^ in any m- 
dostry^ b«it yet she may, and whether she does or not„ her lack of 



4o6 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

efficiency may cost her her health, her character, or her very Hfe. 
There is great human value as well as economic value in the work of 
the city trade schools for girls, such as are found in New York, Bos- 
ton, Milwaukee and Worcester, and on the other side of the Atlantic 
at the Borough Polytechnic, Bloomsbury and other Trade Schools 
in London, the great Lette Verein in Berlin, and the Professional 
School for girls in Rome. The trade school for girls has its ardent 
supporters, and its keen critics as well, and there are some who be- 
lieve that the most valuable contribution which is being made today 
to the solution of the whole problem is that made in Los Angeles and 
some other western cities, and in Fitchburg, Massachusetts, where 
we find what is virtually a six years' high school course, taking girls 
at twelve instead of fourteen years and at once beginning specialized 
work. This is distinctively the English and European plan, and has 
many advantages. It seems undemocratic in that it causes early 
differentiation into classes, but it is splendidly democratic in that it 
gives the girl an early start on the road to efficiency of the kind she 
needs. Industrial communities ought to give, whether in interme- 
diate high schools, short industrial courses, or trade schools, some 
form of industrial training which will enable girls of sixteen to enter 
industry at a better wage than they receive at present. Granting 
this, we still have to face this question, "If a trade school with a 
modicum of general work in addition to the technical work can send a 
girl out to earn a fair wage at sixteen, why cannot a technical high 
school, with a four years' course, do a great deal more for the girl in 
preparing her for industrial vocations, and placing her at once?" 

The most serious difficulty in average com.munities seems to be that 
of finding proper positions for the graduates. If our technical high 
schools were to devote themselves rather exclusively to the prepara- 
tion of girls for the trades, the mediocre girl who could succeed in 
getting through would not be assured of more than a very low stand- 
ard wage. For the girl of exceptional ability, and by that I mean 
artistic, creative, executive, and business ability, there will always be 
immediate opportunities and her school training will help her toward 
rapid advance. There are too few really good dressmakers, and there 
are too few good workers in the establishments, but the girl of eight- 
een is not capable of taking the place of the one,and the place of the 
other is not to her in any sense attractive. She will not go into serv- 
ice as cook, and the positions through which she can work up to the 
level of the trained worker who has had a longer period of instruction 



1 9 13] Preparation for Industrial Vocation 407 

in the preparation of food are difficult and thoroughly uncongenial 
in the majority of cases. 

The critic may ask, "Must we admit then, that the technical high 
school is a failure?" By no means; but the contribution of a good 
Home Economics course in high schools throughout the country is 
rather to the solution of the general educational problem than of 
the specifically industrial problem. With so much of the inertia of 
tradition and the reactionary spirit arrayed against vocational edu- 
cation, some of us hesitate to put in a plea for anything which does 
not bear very directly, and equally obviously, upon the vocational 
purpose, for fear of being considered half-hearted, insincere, and try- 
ing to compromise mth "the old school"; but the fact remains that 
given two candidates of equal skill, the one whose personality is the 
richer and whose outlook is broader is the one who generally wins out, 
simply because the industrial world as well as the professional world 
wants, in its positions of responsibility, those who have a reserve 
upon which they can draw in the unexpected emergency and who 
promise possibilities of growth as responsibilities increase. Per- 
haps, after all, we shall serve the cause of industrial education better 
if we hold pretty firmly to those things which we think are really 
good, and catch as much as we can of the best spirit of industry, its 
energy, its directness, and its definiteness. 

Courses such as are given in the technical high schools are proving 
that they have certain real values. They have kept under the in- 
fluence of the school girls who would otherwise have been in the fac- 
tory, on the street, or vaguely drifting from one dance and card party 
to another; they have aroused to enthusiastic effort girls who have 
been apathetic or frivolous; and many a girl is finding herself in just 
this work. The girls are gaining a poise, a self-reliance, and a power 
of initiative which is recognized by teachers outside of the depart- 
ment, and marvelled at by their own mothers. It is making the girls, 
while economically dependent, more appreciative of the sacrifice which 
their education is involving, and is helping them to make positive con- 
tribution, right now, to the family welfare. It is showing girls the 
value of money and helping them to spend with good judgment. All 
this has a definite though indirect value to them economically, what- 
ever they may do; and their technical work, moreover, is bound to 
help them a long way to industrial efficiency. 

In our zeal for the poorer classes we should not overlook the fact 
that between the very rich and the struggling masses is a great com- 



4o8 The Journal oj Home Economics [December 

pany of skilled workmen, fairly well salaried people, and others in 
comfortable circumstances, whose daughters for one reason or another 
are not going to college, but who, for two or three years to come, will 
not need to make any considerable contribution to the family ex- 
chequer. Such parents are glad to have their daughters engaged in 
work which has such strong interest for them, and is of present as well 
as future practical value. They are glad to have their growing girls 
occupied in school work which does not require an exhausting amount 
of home study. They take pride in their growing efficiency in the 
home and they are willing to postpone, often it may be at some sac- 
rifice, the income-bearing time in order that the girls may study two 
years more, or to encourage a girl, who is working on a low wage, to 
look upon her vocation as a kind of necessary apprenticeship. 

If there were absolutely no preparation for industrial vocations 
in these technical high schools they would still have abundant reason 
for being. They do, however, contribute a great deal through their 
technical courses toward industrial efficiency, and the chief element 
of difficulty lies in the fact that the vocations for which they are pre- 
paring do not afford a sufficient number of desirable positions which 
a girl of eighteen is mature enough to fill. 

Serious thought upon this question is a very recent thing, and it will 
take probably at least a decade of experimentation to find out the 
way in which the high school for girls can best give both a fair gen- 
eral education and an adequate preparation for self-maintenance. All 
of us who believe in vocational education need to have, not only faith 
in what we are trying to do, but a critical spirit to discern where we 
mistake or even fail. We must keep an open mind to see the good 
in what others are doing and we must be vigilant to the utmost to 
discover how the work we give may have real significance and value 
to the girl who must "pull her own weight" as soon as she leaves the 
public high school. 



STANDARDS OF LIVING.^ 

Ira S. Wile, M.S., M.D. 

New York. 

If imagination travels back into the middle ages when each noble 
in his castle ruled mightily and spent his time in praying and fight- 
ing while his wife diligently did sew and spin, embroider and man- 
age the household, the day of chivalry would appear a time of joy. 
If the mind reverts to the single room hovels in the \dllages along the 
crooked streets over which projecting stories almost meet, and real- 
izes the fight against famine and pestilence, the scene presents a 
cheerless picture. From the time the shutters opened in the morn- 
ing until they were closed at night, life was constant warfare. The 
pause in the day's occupation was not the children's hour, but the 
ringing of the Angelus. The watchman with his ready light sounded 
the curfew, placed the chains upon the ends of the streets and rest 
came upon the multitude. 

Were we to go back into the days of Greece or Rome or ancient 
Egypt, we should still find the divisions of the higher classes and the 
lower classes whose standards of living differed according to their rela- 
tion to the laws and economic and social principles of their age. Thus 
we may state that standards of Uving vary with the age and genera- 
tion of man. The standards of the stone age, the bronze age, and 
the iron age vary as much as their implements, their clothing, and 
their shelter. 

From the historical standpoint, one perceives that standards of living 
may be di\'ided into physical standards, social standards, and spiritual 
standards. Individual progress in well-being conditions social progress 
and makes it possible. Social standards react upon the development of 
civilization and are potentials for a higher standard of personal living. 
Social progress represents the progress of humanity and receives its 
impulse from above and works down through the mass to the multi- 
tude, leavening their lives with comfort, peace, and contentment. It 

1 Presented at the Sixth Annual Meeting of the American Home Economics 
Association, Ithaca, 1913. 

409 



4IO The Journal of Home Economics [December 

is obvious that all standards of living must depend in part upon 
variations in climatic conditions as well as upon the nature and extent 
of general education together with the difficulties and magnitude of 
industrial problems. Social usage determined by a sense of morality 
has its marked effect upon the standards of any age and generation. 

In considering standards of living we must recognize that there 
are natural variations depending upon nationality. The standards of 
Abyssinia, Holland, Italy, and England differ from those of the United 
States, with its cosmopolitan population, according to the national 
characteristics which have been developed through the ages by the 
reaction of the people against their environment. 

The development of printing, from the crude block printing of the 
Chinese, to the press of Gutenburg, to the modern complex Hoe ma- 
chine that is utilized for getting out our daily papers, indicates a 
marked factor in raising the standard of living. The progress, fiom the 
days of the tallow dip made in the home, to the use of kerosene, then 
gas, and now electricity, suggests a rise in the standard of living due 
to man's genius and accomplishment. The substitution of the motor 
car for the horse or the ox team, the change from the caravan to the 
locomotive indicate the wide step in advance that has been taken 
in standards of transportation during the past few generatioms. 

In the consideration of standards of living, one must dififerenti- 
ate those which are existent as opposed to those which should exist. 
The standards that are held by the highest in intelligence and moral- 
ity, those few great souls with vision, represent goals which should be 
reached by all. Unfortunately, in discussions upon this topic people 
usually concern themselves merely with minimum standards, those 
standards that seem essential to keep body and soul together and 
nothing more. Standards level upwards. The luxuries of yesterday 
are the necessities of today. The exhibition of comforts that money 
will purchase determines the social standards of those lacking in 
worldly goods. 

It is but natural that aspiration, imitation, and emulation should 
serve as incentives to raise the lower standards to the higher levels. 
Thus we find that the garden patch and the family pig have given 
place to the piano and the phonograph. Horses are succumbing to 
automobiles and mortgages. The telephone and the telegraph, the 
railroads with their luxurious accommodations, the trolley car, the 
folding bed, the gas stove, the fi:reless cooker, have all woven their 
places into the intimate fabric of human life so as to raise the stand- 



1913I Standards of Limng 411 

ards of all kinds of people. Home cookery has declined and the bakery 
is baking our bread. The laundry is relie\-ing our washtubs. The 
factory and the shop are doing our spinning and making our cloth- 
ing. The difficult adjustments made necessary by the change from 
an agricultural form of life to an industrial Kfe have complicated our 
social and economic system and altered greatly the standards of Uv- 
ing within the home as well as without the home. 

In the general term "standards of living" we have many connota- 
tions. There are the standards we maintain for ourselves; there are 
the standards that we would exact from our neighbors. We have 
legislated against out-houses and pig sties. We forbid our neighbor 
to persist in those practices which he thinks may aid his own family 
life if we feel that they interfere with the standards of Uving of 
the group. We have city standards, state standards, and national 
standards, all depending upon a recognition that the standard of hv- 
ing of the group demands an alteration of personal standards and home 
standards. We have standards of taste in art, in music, and in liter- 
ature. We have standards of weights and measures, arbitrary though 
they are and differing shghtly among the nations of the world. We 
establish standards of living for jails, hospitals, and asylums. We de- 
clare standards of living for schools and convalescent homes. We even 
have a standard year, that in itself has some variations. Thus it 
is noteworthy that standards of living must be considered for a given 
time, a given place, and a given class of people. There is no abso- 
lute standard of living save as an ideal; and when the highest stand- 
ards of today are realized, they will fall short of the standards that 
will then be used. 

Contentment is possible with low standards. High standards may 
be achieved with simplicity and economy. The standards of living 
may be based upon social efficiency, but these standards are the result 
of a reaction to an everchanging environment and mental horizon. 
With boundless wealth and low intellectual and moral basis the stand- 
ards of living may not rise to great efficiency. With great mental- 
ity and limited means the ideals of high standards may exist but their 
realization may become impracticable. With degrading moral fiber, 
despite intellectual acumen and exhaustless wealth, the social effici- 
ency of a high standard of living may fail to be realized. 

Standards of living naturally vary within the same grade of income. 
Such variations depend upon the size of family, but for our pur- 
poses we shall consider Carroll Wright's normal family of a father 



412 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

and mother and three children, with none of the children over four- 
teen years of age. The increase of the size of the family with the 
same income may readily cause a decline of the physical standards 
and limit its mental and moral development. The occupation of 
the head of the family will affect the standard as may readily be un- 
derstood from a consideration of what is demanded of the day labor- 
er, the tradesman, the physician or the minister. The location of 
the home has its power in determining many phases of all the stand- 
ards, in so far as it bears direct relation to rental, cost of food, and 
the standards of clothing. Knowledge and judgment determine the 
standard of living in so far as they render the possessors thereof more 
or less capable of choosing and maintaining a standard that is com- 
patible with their means and position in hfe. 

Even the esthetic standard for which there often seems to be no 
fundamental basis, manifests itself in curious changes of physical, 
mental, and moral standards. The thick lips, the blackened teeth, 
the rings in the nose and the ears, the bracelets and the anklets 
reflect distinct evidences of an underlying social standard. The 
general aspirations of the individual, whether socially inclined or 
otherwise, suggest various distributions of the same income so as to 
bring about a high or low standard of living. From the point of view 
of rural or urban localization there must certainly be established en- 
tirely different standards on the basis of the same income. 

There are some basic factors in the standards of living, among which 
we may enumerate cleanliness, order, simplicity, and the satisfac- 
tion of physical necessities, together with time and opportunity for 
recreation, improvement, and soul satisfaction. 

According to the U. S. Census of 1910 there were over forty-nine 
million rural dwellers and over forty-two million urban dwellers. 
The arrangement of this population is of value in considering this 
problem. Over six million children under five years of age live in 
the country and a little over four million dwell in the city. The ur- 
ban communities have 53 per cent of the population in the active 
period of life, between fifteen and forty-five years, while the rural 
communities have only 49 per cent during these years. This dis- 
parity is due in part to immigration and the movement from the 
farm to the city during the most active period of life. These seem- 
ingly insignificant figures have much to do with the consideration of 
the different standards existing in the rural sections, free from con- 
gestion, as compared with those existing in cities where congestion is 
necessary. 



1913] Standards of Living 413 

In the words of Prof. Albion A. Small, "No man can live, bring 
up a family, and enjoy the ordinary human happiness at a wage less 
than one thousand dollars a year." That wages in themselves are not 
the only elements entering into a standard of living was recognized 
by the Committee on Standards of Living and Labor of the Thirty- 
ninth National Conference of Charities and Correction, which stated: 
"The welfare of society and the prosperity of the state require for 
each individual such food, clothing, housing conditions, and other 
necessaries and comforts of life as will secure and maintain physical, 
mental, and moral health. These are essential elements in a normal 
standard of li\nng, below which society cannot allow any of its members 
to live without injuring the public welfare. An increasing percentage 
of our population derives the means to maintain this normal standard 
through industry. Industry therefore must submit to such public 
regulation as will make it a means of life and health, not of death or 
inefficiency. 

"This regulation has to do ^vith hours, safety, over-strain, and other 
conditions of the day's labor; with premature employment, unem- 
ployment, incapacity, and other factors which shorten or impair the 
length of the wo^fng life; with wages as the basis which work affords 
for a normal standard of home life; with unwise taxation and other 
community conditions which in our industrial centers exploit wages; 
with insurance against those risks of trade— death, injury, occupa- 
tional disease — which break in upon working years and wipe out earn- 
ings; and with protection against poverty in old age when produc- 
tive labor is ended." 

The standards of living and the cost of living are not identical 
though they are closely interrelated. The high cost of living depends 
principally upon the question of supply and demand of commodities. 
Other factors entering into the high cost of living are personal wages, 
drink, luxury and extravagance, together with such social factors as 
governmental extravagance, the cost of war, and the army and navy, 
not forgetting the burden of crime, pauperism, and insanity, and the 
wastage from unemployment and preventable accidents and diseases. 

The standards of living represent the crystallization of social ideals 
as limited by knowledge, strength, opportunity, and worldly goods. 
The standards are being raised through education. The papers and 
magazines and colleges are talking to thousands of people, whereas 
a generation ago such educational factors as lyceum lecturers appealed 
only to the hundreds. There is some truth, however, in the proverb, 



414 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

"The rich man's wealth is his strong city; the destruction of the poor 
is their poverty." 

To give a definition of a standard of living we may quote Dr. Devine : 
"A standard of living, whatever physical comforts it includes at a 
given period of life, must be understood to imply the income which 
will take the individuals of the normal family safely through the 
vicissitudes of life without reliance upon charitable assistance, al- 
though not indeed, necessarily, without mutual interchange of many 
courtesies and favors from friends and neighbors." Incidentally 
this definition was made in 1904 when six hundred dollars per annum 
was regarded as sufiicient to maintain a minimum standard of living 
in a city. I prefer to take the concise definition of Dr. Harrington, 
''A normal standard of living may be defined as that which permits 
each individual to live as an eflScient, healthy human being — morally, 
mentally, and physically." 

In Alaska the average native home has but one room, and the sani- 
tary arrangements are primitive in the extreme. On the seacoast, 
garbage and rubbish are thrown into the sea, while in settlements 
located on rivers, they are thrown into the rivers. During the winter 
months all refuse is allowed to accumulate, and in the spring, if the 
village school-teacher can force the natives to bestir themselves, it 
is cleaned up and somehow disposed of. To quote Dr. Krulish, "It 
is in the crowded, unventilated homes, where all eat out of the same 
dish, drink from the same teapot spout, use the same towel, and ex- 
pectorate on the floor, that the principal danger of contagion exists 
and that tuberculosis and trachoma are most frequently contracted." 
This gives an unpleasant picture of living standards but it indicates 
that more than an income is necessary to determine physical standards. 

In 1672 Petty estimated the money value of victuals used by a nor- 
mal family in Ireland at 35 dd per week. It is obvious that we can- 
not gain any insight into the standards of that time by the mere con- 
sideration of the money expended for food. De Tocqueville, refer- 
ring to America, stated: "Carefully to satisfy all, even the least wants 
of the body, and to provide the little conveniences of life is upper- 
most in every mind." Further, "The passion for physical comforts 
is essentially a passion of the middle classes. The love of well being 
is now become the predominant taste of the nation; the great cur- 
rent of man's passion runs in that channel and sweeps everything 
along in its course." 

We appreciate the fact that life has become more complex and that 



19 13] Standards of Living 415 

industrialism has complicated our present existence. It is needless 
to tell a group of workers in home economics that salaries increased 
about twenty per cent from 1897 to 1910, while the food, rent, cloth- 
ing and fuel that could have been supplied for $759 in 1897 would 
have cost S1032 in 1910. This does not indicate just exactly the 
degree of consequent variation in the standard of living. It is ob- 
vious, however, that if the price of commodities necessary for physi- 
cal well-being is increased disproportionately to the salary increase, 
a state of poverty will be brought about for those who never suf- 
ered from it before. This type of poverty brings a lowering in stand- 
ards for which society is responsible. As Mr. Frank Tucker, of the 
New York Provident Loan Association, has written: "Society, which 
pays the bill for poverty, has the right to say whether poverty that 
is preventable shall continue to exist .... We shall be led to 
inquire the price that society pays when the work of women and chil- 
dren is necessary to supplement the wages of the father. We shall 
be led to inquire the price that society pays when a portion of it is 
housed below the standard, is fed below the standard, is clothed, is 
warmed, has its rest and pleasures, is protected against sickness and 
accident, below the standard; is ignorant through lack of education 
because its services are exploited for the selfish purposes of others, 
or because of the unenlightened attitude of some who conscien- 
tiously (perhaps) maintain that labor is a commodity to be paid for 
according to supply and demand, without regard to the essentials of 
a normal standard of Uving and the cost of those essentials." 

The interrelation of food to general welfare is well voiced by 
Adam Smith in stating, "A plentiful subsistence increases the bod- 
ily strength of the laborer, and the comfortable hope of bettering 
his condition, and of ending his days, perhaps, in ease and plenty, 
animates him to exert that strength to the utmost." The general 
variety of food is greater in this country than in most others. The 
increase in knowledge of sanitation, the improvement in cold stor- 
age facihties, and the general importation of new and valuable foods 
have all served to increase the cost of living when food purchases are 
standardized wholly by the palate rather than by the pocketbook. 
Food esthetics and the increased use of sealed packages have not 
necessarily served to better dietetic standards proportionately to 
their cost. General investigations of family budgets have shown 
that the food supply varies greatly according to the rental and the 
financial stress of the family. The fall in expenditure for foods alters 



41 6 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

the nature, though not always the caloric value, of the nourishment 
provided. The limitations in the quantities purchased owing to 
lack of ready available funds may probably be regarded as a reason 
for a ten per cent loss in food purchases even when a knowledge of 
economic dietetics is present. The families who spend the most for 
rent among the lower income groups expend the least for food. Meat 
cost per capita rises with the income while the expenditure for bread 
and cereals declines. 

The Russians are large meat eaters and small consumers of vege- 
tables and cereals, while this is reversed by the Italians. To maintain 
a standard of nourishment. Underbill five years ago estimated that 
twenty-two cents per day per man was required. Today twenty- 
five cents per day per capita may be regarded as a minimum in New 
York City. Naturally in Japan, where a mechanic may earn thirty- 
seven and a half cents a day, the consumption of food is at exceed- 
ingly small cost. The absolute value of a wage must be appreci- 
ated in terms of its relative purchasing power. The rice, the soy, 
the tea, the vegetables and the fish may be purchased at exceedingly 
low prices judged from our high wage standpoint but are relatively 
dear to the Japanese laborer earning from twenty to forty cents a day. 

It is needless to present family budgets as the index of prosperity 
nor need one show the various type of each commodity which is pur- 
chased in large quantities in each income group. Suffice it to say 
that the American wages are high, but so are food products. The 
purchasing power of a dollar depends largely upon the one who is 
spending it. The dietary of the average American family is more 
varied than that of families of corresponding financial status in 
any other part of the globe. Another index of the dietetic stand- 
ards is implied in the increased use of alcoholic beverages in the 
United States. The per capita consumption of wines, malt, liquors 
and spirits has risen from 6.43 gallons in i860 to 23.01 gallons in 
1908. ^ 

According to the Investigation of the Cost of Living in American 
Towns, wages in the United States are two and a half times those in 
England and Wales, while the rent in the United States is a little over 
twice that of England and Wales, and the food budget for a week for 
British American families would have an index of 143 in the United 
States as compared with a similar budget in England and Wales. In 
the language of the report the margin over the expenditure for food 
and rent is "curtailed by a scale of expenditures, to some extent neces- 



1913] Standards of Living 417 

sarily and to some extent voluntarily, adopted in accordance with a 
different and a higher standard of material comfort." 

In the lower income groups there is insufficient money to purchase 
clothes at an advantage and the exploitation which results does not 
tend to make clothing a large factor in estimating the physical stand- 
ard of living. 

Furniture is frequently purchased on the installment plan with an 
added overcharge for the convenience. This produces a state of 
chronic indebtedness which to some may indicate a low moral stand- 
ard. Practically, however, the installment business has made possi- 
ble the acquisition of well furnished homes that otherwise would be 
impossible. The real index of the standard would be represented in 
the character of the furniture purchased, its gaudiness or simpHcity, 
its comfort and durability. The essential furniture that is purchased 
consists of a stove, a table, a few chairs, cooking and table utensils, 
a bureau, beds, a clock, possibly a rug, generally a mirror, and, un- 
fortunately, at times horrible ornaments and pictures. 

The standard of thrift is often measured by the amount of insur- 
ance which is carried. Industrial insurance may not always be re- 
garded as an index of thrift as much as the embodiment of a fear 
against burial in the Potter's Field. The desire for a decent and re- 
spectable burial appears to have a strong effect upon insurance 
and the bulk of industrial insurance goes to the undertakers. 

The problem of standards for shelter does not depend wholly upon 
the income but upon the size of the family, the dietetic taste, the oc- 
cupation, and the social desirabiUty of the family as tenants. For 
example, negroes in the North pay disproportionately high rents for 
the same accommodations as their neighbors, simply because they 
are negroes. A large family may pay a disproportionately low rent 
because of the necessity of expending money for food. Rental has no 
lower limits and any shack or hovel may be tenanted. The cost of 
rent falls rapidly after the expenditure for food has been reduced to 
its minimum. Shelter standards in cities may in part be gaged by 
the presence of a private bathroom or a private toilet. In New York 
City, among those whose income is between four hundred and five 
hundred dollars, only thirty-two per cent have private toilets and 
only four per cent have a private bathroom. These standards again 
must include room congestion, and assuming a standard of one and 
one-half persons per room, or four rooms for six people, fully forty- 
four per cent of the families with an income under eleven hundred 



4i8 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

dollars exceed this standard. The real standards of home condi- 
tions shoidd be indicated in terms of light, air, cubic capacity 
and the number of rooms. There should be access to running water, 
a separate bath, and a separate toilet. Social welfare demands a 
sanitary home, reasonable fire protection, and privacy, all at a cost 
not to exceed twenty per cent of the family income. 

While sixty-six per cent of the population of the United States live 
in rural communities and only thirty-four per cent live in large cities, 
the country life is not free from low sanitary standards. Sixty per cent 
of the wells of the farms in the United States and Canada are polluted 
with house and barnyard drainage. The disposal of human and animal 
waste is not regulated by high sanitary standards. Such low sani- 
tary conditions include the lack of protection for manure heaps, ex- 
posure to flies, closed windows, common dippers, careless dish wash- 
ing and tuberculous cattle. These represent unsanitary conditions 
which interfere with the healthful progress in the rural districts despite 
the fact that their general mortality rate is lower than that of the city. 
The principal causes of death that are more common in the country 
than in the city are typhoid fever, malaria, influenza, dysentery, 
apoplexy and paralysis. It is noteworthy that the main causes of 
death are from unsanitary conditions, due to a lack of high standard 
in public health matters. 

A decrease in disease tends to increase total wages and a general 
decrease in illness would tend to lessen the baneful effects of the high 
cost of commodities. This is particularly important when we recognize 
that fully six hundred thousand people die annually in the United 
States from preventable causes, w^hile fully two miUion suffer from un- 
necessary illness each year. The economic wastage may be estimated 
at three billions of dollars per year. Over forty-two per cent of 
the deaths each year might be postponed. It has been suggested 
that the standards of living may be partially indicated by the death 
rate. Assuming this for the moment, it is interesting to notice the 
average death rate per thousand population from 1906 to 1910: 
U. S. 15. 1, Denmark 13.7, England and Wales 14.7, France 19.2, 
Hungary 25, Italy 21.5, Russia 30.9, Spain 24.3, Norway 13.8, New 
Zealand 9.7. 

The effect of education upon standards of living is variable. If 
education be of any value there must be plenty of it. It is striking 
to realize that educational standards are still low. The average length 
of the rural school term in the United States is only one hundred and 



19 1 3] Standards of Living 419 

thirty-eight days, while for the cities it is one hundred and eighty- 
four days. Some states in the Union keep their rural schools open 
for only four to six months. In this connection one may consider 
the extent of illiteracy as indicating, in part, the standard of intelli- 
gence in the United States. The average of illiteracy in 1910 for per- 
sons of ten years and over was 7.7 per cent. In the urban districts it 
was 5.1 per cent but in the rural districts it was 10. i per cent. The 
distance of schools from the homes prevents the attendance of young 
children at rural schools, while the industrial activity, in the years 
over fifteen, lessens the attendance of children at school in the city. 
In his Utopia, More provided that each year twenty families should 
return to town after two years in the country. Everyone had to learn 
agriculture plus some special trade. There were six hours work 
each day and everyone was working. While this theoretic scheme 
is no longer practicable, it is important to arrange the adjustment of 
work in all our schools to the lives and needs of our children, whether 
in the city or in the country. Through this vast educational plant 
it will be possible to raise the standard of living as far as its mental 
aspects are concerned. General education represents the crux of 
this problem. 

Certain tendencies appear to suggest that for many famihes the 
home is practically resolving itself into a place designed merely for 
eating and sleeping. The developmental possibilities of the old type 
home have apparently been temporarily put aside. Recreation itself 
appears to be becoming a lost art in many homes. Home occupations 
do not receive their due recognition as a means of educational play. 
There are no longer the commons and the bowling greens for free play, 
but the play instinct of our children in the cities is being dulled through 
transferring its field of activity to the hot, dirty, and dangerous streets. 
The entire movement for recreation indicates that the spontaneous 
play of boys and girls now needs stimulation and supervision in order 
to have the spirit of the club and the gang directed into healthful chan- 
nels. There is greater organization of communal recreation in the 
form of libraries, dance halls, festivals, and pageants. On all sides 
commercialism has seized hold of recreative opportunities and life is 
besieged with the movies, the dance halls, the saloons, the theatres, 
the meeting halls, and the billiard parlors. All these types of recre- 
ation exert their specific degrading influences upon the mental and 
moral welfare of the community and are potent factors in affecting 
physical standards through their general cost. Adequate forms of 



420 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

recreation, at any cost, may exhibit compensations in the form of an 
exhihrating joy that sustains, or a mental attitude that brightens and 
encourages a family to struggle against impending oppressive forces. 

There is a general recognition of the benefits to be derived by giving 
special attention to the social welfare of workers and thus we find 
movements for industrial betterment extending throughout the urban 
and rural sections. Both in the country and in the city, we find an 
unusual variety of institutions seeking to better the general welfare 
of employees. One may fiind clubs, physical culture organizations, 
libraries, lecture systems, training schools, and musical organizations. 
Of greater value in raising standards are the institutions of profit- 
sharing and cooperative organizations. There is found the establish- 
ment of improved dwellings, the inauguration of lunch rooms and 
recreation rooms, the provisions of medical and nursing attendance, 
and provident banks and loans. Regardless of the fact that, in ori- 
gin, these are economic devices to promote business efficiency, they 
serve to improve personal and family standards. They fail, however, 
when considered as substitutes for wage increases. Similarly we find 
in our educational institutions the development of medical inspection 
and school nursing together with dental clinics and school lunches. 
Municipalties are inaugurating campaigns for infant hygiene, pre- 
natal care, and visiting nurses, together with a more adequate super- 
vision and control of midwifery and the careful investigation and con- 
trol of food suppHes. 

The marital condition of the country bears a distinct relation to 
the general contentment and standards of efficiency. For persons 
over fifteen years of age, 55.8 per cent of the men, and 58.9 per cent 
of the women are married; 4^ per cent are widowers and 10.6 per cent 
are widows. In the rural districts 37^ per cent of the men and 26.6 
per cent of the women are single, as compared with 40 per cent of the 
men and 32.8 per cent of the women in the city. The reasons for this 
marked difference are apparent in that women marry at an earlier 
age than men, particularly in the rural sections. The large number 
of widows in proportion to the widowers is due principally to the fact 
that the widowers remarry more quickly. 

The moral standards of the community are largely dependent upon 
monagamous married life. The standards of morality are therefore 
affected by all the problems concerned in the state regulation of mar- 
riage and divorce which is at present assuming prominent positions 
in the public mind. Law and inclination must not clash too radically 



19 13] Standards of Living 421 

when the basis of marriage is to be affection. State registration of 
marriage is an economic measure and in no way related to the broad 
general problems of public morality. 

The existence of the social evil is a constant drain upon the resources 
of the country as well as a blight upon its physical, mental and moral 
progress. Morality by legislation is difficult to secure. Morality by 
education, understanding, and self-control will present the determin- 
ing motive in the future. To this end education in sex hygiene is 
becoming imperative in the city and in rural sections. It should be 
embraced in a home economic movement. 

The decrease in the number of children is in part due to the fact 
that children no longer form an industrial asset as in the days of hand 
agriculture. At the present time machinery has displaced many 
workers so that the work of the world no longer requires the hands of 
frail children. At the same time the exploitation of children continues 
because Mammon and his disciples find it cheaper to sap youthful 
vitahty than to arrange their work upon the humane basis of employ- 
ing only the more mature individuals over the age of sixteen. The 
decline in the birth rate throughout the world exists correspondingly 
in our own country and we are dependent upon our proUfic immi- 
grants for the maintenance of the rule of four children for race growth. 

The standard of living for children is constantly being raised. Every 
child is entitled to a home, and institutionalism for children is rapid- 
ly disappearing in ^\ase communities. The movement to bring to- 
gether the homeless child and the childless home is tending to supply 
each with what it most requires for a proper fulfillment of its inherent 
powers. Large factors in the so-called decline of our morals, if such 
be admitted, are the lessening of the home influences, the removal of 
industries from the home, and the growth of the shop and the factory 
with their early apprenticeships, without counterbalancing educa- 
tional forces. 

The churches themselves have assumed a movement upward and 
are recognizing the relation of Christianity and the social crisis. Their 
efforts are no longer wasted in pitiful pittances and in individual 
doles. They are at last recognizing the possibilities of accompUsh- 
ment in constructive efforts for social regeneration. In their treatment 
of their own ministers they are recognizing the importance of estab- 
lishing a minimum wage and are seeking to stop the unwholesome 
practice of pauperizing the ministers of the gospel by making them 
dependent upon donations and free-will offerings that do not afford 



422 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

them the opportunity to attain a position of maximum efficiency. The 
church itself is being spiritualized and its influence for moral service 
is being enhanced. The old attitude of the church is gi\dng way to 
a plane of rational equality and cooperation between the church and 
the parishioners. 

The adulteration of foods and clothing were reported in the days 
of Pliny and earlier in Babylon and Egypt. The weighting of silk 
and leather, the selling of cotton for wool, are but modern extensions 
of the days of strawless bricks, small loaves of bread and short weights. 
The making of licorice peUets of lamp black, carpenter's glue and glu- 
cose; or of serving lemon pie made of glycerine, glucose, oil of lemon, 
starch, coal tar dye, and benzoate of soda are only modern variations 
in the light of chemical developments. 

The facts of combinations of capital and labor are but transmuta- 
tions into organization of the difficulties of the patricians and ple- 
beians, the Helots and the Spartan citizens, and an expansion of the 
movement of trade guilds. The harshness of modern competition has 
manifested itself in every standard of human life, and its solution is 
one of the most difficult problems of the future. High finance, specu- 
lation, and manipulation, together with gambling of all kinds, exer- 
cise an unfortunately potent influence upon the welfare of the com- 
munity through their relations to the development of panics. 

The main factors in standards of living may be divided into per- 
sonal elements and social elements. Among the personal factors we 
may enumerate as foremost health, intelligence, self-control, and am- 
bition. Among the social elements we may include education and 
training, wages and hours of work, regularity of employment, sani- 
tation, recreation, and the prevention of accidents and disease. The 
importance of personal health is so obvious as a fundamental of main- 
taining high standards for one's self and one's dependents that it may 
be dismissed by its mere mention. 

The value of knowledge and of the development of the facts, proc- 
esses and ideals to be secured through education is known to all. In 
the working out of individual problems the importance of intelligent 
action is paramount. The lack of progress in maintaining high stand- 
ards of physical education may be placed at the doors of an education 
that has not kept pace with the necessities of the times. Greater 
stress must be placed upon education for home making and the do- 
mestic arts and sciences in vocational training, and upon agriculture, 
not merely in colleges and high schools, but in that branch of the edu- 



19 13] Stajidards of Living 423 

cational system which reaches the bulk of the children of this day 
and generation. 

The development of character requires the creation of the power of 
self-control which shall determine for the individual an ability to con- 
ventionalize himself in the interests of the public welfare. The moral- 
ity of our age must depend upon the power of inhibiting pernicious 
acti\'ities. Law serves to create moral force but its punitive powers 
do not develop morality. Self-control as a result of education is the 
foimdation of a wholesome morality of the higher standard. 

It must always be borne in mind that individual standards may 
be placed upon a low plane for variable periods of time under the goad 
of ambition and thrift. Many voluntarily assume inadequate physi- 
cal standards, even tending toward moral degeneration, in order to 
save for the purpose of purchasing a home, providing for the future, 
or establishing themselves in business upon a better footing. 

The social standards of living over which individuals have little 
influence, save in their capacity as citizens, involve the ever-present 
questions of street improvements and cleanliness, a pure food supply, 
free baths, parks, sewerage systems, tenement house laws, sanitary 
control of industry, the establishment of hospitals and dispensaries, 
medical inspection, visiting nurses, visiting housekeepers, vaccination, 
quarantine, fumigation and allied civic works. The principle of social 
or civic consciousness tends to leaven the mass with a consequent re- 
adjustment in the standards of living. The result evidences itself 
in better standards for the group, though at times with additional 
hardship for some constituent members of it. The increased cost of 
living is felt temporarily by the multitude but their standard of liv- 
ing is bettered. This phase of social development is preeminent in 
the numerous broad social problems which rise from time to time 
such as the questions of old age insurance, workingmen's insurance, 
employer's Uabihty, and fire protection. 

The importance of fire protection in relation to living standards 
has been given inadequate attention. The average fire loss in the 
United States from 1905 to 1910 amounted to $218,000,000 per year. 
In addition to this there were 3000 deaths, not to mention the num- 
erous temporary and permanent injuries. For the past ten years 
the fire loss has amounted to S2.58 per capita. This loss, which is 
eight to ten times as great as the fire loss in any European country, 
is not entirely met by insurance. Insurance merely represents pay- 
ing one man's loss with another person's money. The money now 



424 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

being spent for fire insurance must be taken off from the sum that 
would be available for food, rent, clothing and similar necessities of 
life if fires could be prevented. A fire loss at the rate of $3000 per 
hour certainly affects the standards of living particularly when the 
devastation involves homes. Fire insurance is a factor in the cost 
of production of most commodities. 

The essential education and training which can be supplied only 
by community work, indicates the need of hygienic training, commer- 
cial education, industrial training, and vocational guidance in so far 
as may be necessary to develop into social citizens the children of 
this generation. Adult education, university extension, women's 
institutes, farmers' conferences, lecturers, and traveling exhibitions 
form vital elements in the campaign for education which is to inspire 
the adult population. 

The standards of general well-being are powerfully influenced by 
an education which considers the practical problems of life. I have 
little sympathy with that portion of the community which regards 
women merely as the spenders. The time has come for recognizing 
women as the originators and conservers of the home. The educa- 
tion of our girls must take into consideration the needs of reconstruct- 
ing homes or directing them along the lines of greater efficiency. 

Poverty educates through the process of elimination. The poor 
find a certain level in purchasing because their funds permit them to 
buy naught else, but rational education tends to raise both the per- 
sonal and ci\dc standards of living. Through education public 
sentiment is created that tends to better housing facilities and 
recreational facilities. Intelligent action upon pending legislation, 
as for example minimum wage laws, can be secured only through 
raising the standard of social education. The politician recog- 
nizes the value of political education and campaigns in order to 
educate the voters. Our training systems must profit by this ex- 
ample and afford an opportunity to citizens, voters or non-voters, to 
learn their duties in reference to the general welfare. The deterior- 
ating influences of child labor should be expounded as a gospel. 
The few families who actually need the paltry two or three dollars 
a week which the child under sixteen can earn in industry might well 
be pensioned through a scholarship plan, in order to safeguard po- 
tential citizens. As a matter of fact only in rare instances are chil- 
dren's earnings required to prevent actual family suffering. 

Chapin in his study of 391 families in New York City found only 



1 9 13] Standards of Living 425 

48 with an income above $1100, while 25 were below $600 per annum. 
I believe that I am conservative in stating that 45 per cent of the 
workers in this country receive only bare living wages or less. The 
actual number of hours which people may safely work, naturally 
depends upon the nature of their occupation. A careful considera- 
tion of the relation of fatigue to efficiency has come before the 
public, during the last few years, as never before, The trend of 
industry is to reach the level of an eight-hour day. The Biblical 
injunction, "Six days shalt thou labor" is slowly becoming crystal- 
lized into industrial laws. 

The opportunity for self-betterment, rest, recreation, and advance- 
ment is slowly being given to the masses who have been submerged 
in the maelstrom of industrialism. The theoretic wage is not to be 
confused with actual earnings. According to the reports of trade 
unions, organized workers lose on the average 20 per cent of their 
possible incomes through unemployment. Twenty -five per cent of 
the unions reporting to the Wain^Tight Commission represented the 
actual earnings of their members as less than $700 a year, while only 
14 per cent had an average earning above $1000. In the language 
of the Wainwright report, "The effect of unemployment upon the 
incomes of skilled and organized workmen, in years of business pros- 
perity, is serious enough to force nearly one-quarter of those whose 
earning power, if fully employed, warrants a fair standard of living, 
into a class of men no longer able to maintain themselves and their 
family according to the normal demands of health, working efficiency, 
and social decency." 

In New York State, considering the wages of farm labor, we find 
that the average wage paid to men employed by the year amounts 
to $266.21 with board or $374.81 without board. This is a possible 
explanation of the scarcity of farm labor, together with unsteady 
employment, long hours, the hardship and monotony of the occupa- 
tion, the lack of promotion, and the lack of normal recreation. Prac- 
tically three-fourths of the males in industrial sections of the United 
States earn less than $600 per annum. Under such circumstances 
it is difficult to define the middle class. Mrs. Bruere, who regards 
$1200 a year essential for social efficiency and the maintennce of a 
moderately high standard of living, in defining the limits of the middle 
class, states that she eliminates "Those households whose incomes 
are less than $1000 a year because they are on an economic level 
where no amount of brain and muscle can lift them up to the point 
of social efficiency." 



426 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

A living wage certainly is a primal requisite for establishing high 
social standards of living. Such wages are due the workers in all 
occupations. The wage must possess a purchasing value that enables 
the wage earner to secure a normal standard of physical living, to pro- 
vide for education, to safeguard against illness, to secure care for the 
weak and the invalids, and at the same time permit the accumulation 
of a surplus for the unemployable years of life. 

While the problems of unemployment involve such personal char- 
acteristics as laziness, physical disability, and mental weakness, the 
mainspring of this action is wound up in the economic machinery. 
According to the census in 1900, 25 per cent of the workers in manu- 
facturing and mechanical pursuits in New York State were unemployed 
part of the year and 27^ per cent from three to six months. The 
fluctuation in employment from seasonal variations in industry dif- 
fers from month to month. It is noteworthy, however, that 25 per 
cent to 30 per cent of families applying for relief at the hands of charit- 
able institutions do so because of lack of employment of the wage 
earner. This in itself is indicative of the relation of unemployment 
to living standards. Lee Squier, in treating of old age dependency, 
estimates that there are 1,250,000 former wage earners who have 
reached the age of sixty-five years in want, and are now supported 
by public and private charity at an annual cost of $220,000,000. The 
general effects of unemployment upon living standards may be sum- 
marized as forcing wives to work, pushing children out of schools and 
into industry, without the adequate physical strength or the neces- 
sary vocational training. Many of these children are forced into 
blind occupations, with the result that they are always unskilled 
laborers. With continued unemployment comes demoralization and 
drink, undernourishment and physical deterioration, pauperism, 
vagrancy, desertion or non-support, discouragement, and possibly 
suicide. These reactions conduce to low standards and are distinctly 
anti-social. 

The relation of public health legislation and sanitary ordinances 
is manifest in increasing the expectation of life. The most recent 
life table measuring the health conditions in a large city is that pre- 
pared in New York City based upon the mortaHty for 1909 to 191 1 in- 
clusive. Co'nparing results with a similar life table prepared in 1882 
by the late Dr. John S. Billings, we find that thirty years ago, a child 
under five years could expect to live 41 years while a child at that age 
at the present time may look forward to a future life time of almost 
52 years, an increase of almost eleven years. The persons of 25 to 



1913] Standards of Living 427 

30 years had an expectancy of life of 32.6 years as compared with the 
present expectation of 34.3 years. On the other hand persons between 
40 and 45 years had an expectancy of 23.9 years as compared with 
only 23.4 at the present time. At all ages above 40 there is a con- 
stantly decreasing length of expectancy. The increased mortality 
above 40 is thought to be related to an increase in the consumption 
of liquors and nitrogenous foods. Possibly another factor is the 
saving of a number of weaklings through the period of maturity so 
that they more quickly succumb during the period of greater stress 
upon the heart and circulation. 

The general increase in industrial accidents, with probably 20,000 
preventable fatal accidents annually, is a large factor in increasing 
the burden of many famihes, as well as in lowering their established 
standards of Hving. The proper procedure to prevent this unfor- 
timate efifect depends not so much upon legislation for the purpose 
of establishing liability as upon legislation to prevent the fatal occur- 
rences. The installation of safety devices and the education of em- 
ployers and employees in methods of industrial hygiene and accident 
prevention represent fields for active educational propaganda. 

The provision for public recreation in the form of parks, play- 
grounds, municipal dance halls, public theatres, and libraries, is neces- 
sary to raise the general standards of living, physical, mental and 
moral. Moving pictures may tend to offset the saloons. In New 
York City, their weekly earnings are fully $70,000, gotten from the 
million people who patronize them. The low priced theatres, satis- 
fying the dramatic instincts of 700,000, take out of their incomes $315,- 
000 each week, while the high priced theaters, reaping their rewards 
largely from families of higher income groups, have little effect in 
lowering standards even though $190,000 is taken from the incomes 
of their 158,000 patrons. 

In the rural districts, standards of living are affected by the in- 
creased value of land, with a diminished percentage return upon the 
products of the land. The farms that have been robbed of their 
fertility, the exodus to the cities, the installation of machines instead 
of hand power, all have had a marked effect upon rural standards. 
The rural community spirit has been at low ebb and today the rural 
schools, the magazines for rural readers, the country roads, the country 
church, the husking bees, rural sanitation and the rotation of crops are 
all in a great interrogatory muddle, the clearing of which will serve 
to enlighten the rural population, stimulate social ideals, and raise 
rural standards. 



428 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

In this broad general resume of the living standards of this 
country there is no note of pessimism. We have only given recog- 
nition to the great advances that have been made and, after 
listening to complaints regarding present conditions, have had our 
ear to the ground for the promises of the future. All the standards 
of living may be raised and are being raised. The strength of the 
lever that is lifting humanity slowly but surely upward depends upon 
education, on personal, individual training, and social enhghtenment. 
By raising the standards of intelligence, by increasing interest in the 
problems of home economics, by revolting against barbaric sur- 
vivals which complicate our living, by emerging from a period of in- 
dividualism to one of social consciousness, we are leading a march- 
ing army onward towards higher things. Society is being educated. 
The great work of the future is in the hands of the teachers in our 
schools and colleges, in the homes and on the farms, in the shops and 
factories, in our reform institutions, in our churches, and in every 
field of human endeavor. A standard of living should move paral- 
lel to the standard of general education and social ideals, and in these 
lies the hope of the future. So in the words of the proverb, "Take 
fast hold of instruction; let her not go; keep her; for she is thy life." 

HOME ECONOMICS IN SOCIAL WORK.^ 

Winifred S. Gibbs. 

Supervisor, Home Economy Department, New York Association for Improving 
the Condilion of the Poor. 

For many years the policy of so-called relief associations has been 
more and more educational. From the beginning, relief workers 
have realized that to feed people was not enough unless they were 
helped at the same time to feed themselves. With this end in 
mind the first "Organized Charity" made its plan. Help was given 
to the needy families with a general idea of their special needs in mind, 
but owing to pressure of work it was not easy to meet all the details 
of these needs. From these beginnings relief societies became more 
and more specialized in their work, and among the first special workers 
to be added were visiting nurses. The great service that these nurses 
could render was plain to everyone, but it was not until 1906 that the 
possibilities for home economics in the social field were fully realized. 

^ Presented at the Sixth Annual Meeting of the American Home Economics 
Association, Ithaca, 1913. 



1913] Home Economics in Social Work 429 

Dean Arnold of Simons College said to the writer several years 
ago that she was eager to have this idea brought home to her students. 
She said truly that most teachers of home economics now realized 
the value of their subject from a pedagogical standpoint, but that 
they did not yet comprehend the breadth of the work in which they 
might engage. It was vdth. this idea in mind that the New York 
Association for Improving the Condition of the Poor, decided to send 
a special worker into the field, that is, among its own families for the 
purpose of giving instruction in the best use of home resources. It 
is, of course, vitally important to make this work bear proper relation 
to the general reUef poUcy of the Association for Improving the Con- 
dition of the Poor, and it is therefore the aim of workers of the Depart- 
ment to cooperate as much as possible with the workers of the Relief 
Department. 

The plan of the work is as follows: The teacher who is to work in 
the home makes a rapid survey of conditions herself, noting special 
needs and general needs and planning her campaign accordingly. It 
it usually first necessary to bring a housekeeper to the realization of 
the need for having a system. These women have more or less un- 
trained minds and because of general discouragement, insufiicient 
food, etc., have low physical and mental vitality. Because of this 
low vitality they are very likely to say, "What is the use of trying to 
make our few pennies buy anything but bread and tea?" It is, there- 
fore, the first care of the teacher to show that these few pennies prop- 
erly spent may do a great deal in conserving the health and general 
economic standing of the family. 

After the woman has become interested in systematizing her house- 
hold, she is then led, step by step, into making plans to bring about the 
desired results. Lessons are planned first in keeping accounts, these 
accounts being used as a basis for further lessons. The first account 
book of the housekeeper is usually a very crude affair, but comparison 
of its items with those that might be purchased for the same money 
is very illuminating to the woman. After the revision of the accounts, 
and after taking care that the woman understands all details of buying, 
the next introduction is in the matter of planning the meals. Here 
there is much to be done, as very few of the women understand the 
necessity for giving special thought to this matter. The children, 
from the very small babies up, are given exactly the same food as that 
of the elders. There is, of course, some slight excuse for this when 
one considers the crowded lives of these women, but after a Uttle 



43© The Journal of Home Economics [December 

instruction it is usually easy to convince them that the necessary 
changes are so simple as to be quite within their possibilities. 

When the family dietary is sketched and outlined, the woman is 
questioned as to her knowledge of the preparation of food, and where 
this is deficient, cooking lessons are given, always using utensils at 
hand and basing all cooking lessons on the dietary that has already 
been planned to meet the family needs. 

By way of illustration, the work done in three typical families will 
be cited, first, where results are satisfactory, second, where conditions 
are typically bad and are now in progress of improving, and third, 
in a typical Italian family. 

The work done in the first family was under a Teachers College 
student who is on the writer's staff of teachers. These students are 
trained in methods at the College and then come into the field of the 
Association for Improving the Condition of the Poor to put these 
methods into practice. The family consisted of the man, woman, 
grandmother, girl aged 6, and boy aged 4; the income was $15 a 
week. This family was self-supporting but had no idea of proper 
management. The budget after the student finished her work was 
as follows: 

Income Expenditures 

$60.00 Rent $12.00 

Food 24 . oo 

Fuel and light 6 . 00 

Clothing 1 2 . 00 

Insurance 1.60 

Total $60.00 Total $55.60 

The family consisted of 3.5 units, using a working man as a unit, 
and after instruction the rate upon which the family was fed was 
lowered to 25 cents per unit per day. This meant that there had been 
a saving of $1.50 a week, and that the food, instead of being bought 
in a haphazard way and consisting of various indigestible foods, was 
planned so as to meet all the needs of this nearly normal family. 

The family in the second class presents one of the most discouraging 
problems. The budget at present is as follows: 

Income Expenditures 

$72.00 Rent $14.00 

Food 18.00 

Fuel and light 2 . 00 

Clothing 7 . 00 

Carfare and lunches 7 . 20 

In.surance i . 60 

Total $72.00 Total $49.80 



1913] Home Economics in Social Work 431 

The units here are 3.9, and the rate at which the woman was feeding 
her family was 18 cents per capita. This is, of course, too low, and a 
glance at the budget will show that a large proportion of the income 
is unaccounted for. The woman's food budget shows delicatessen 
food, seven cans of condensed milk a week, an entire lack of fruit and 
vegetables, and meat items that include the most unsuitable cuts, 
which were made indigestible by frying them in quantities of grease. 

It is quite easy to see that there is much to be done. When this 
Department began work on the case, the first thing that was done was 
to cut off the milk supply which the Association for Improving the 
Condition of the Poor was furnishing to the family. It may be said 
in passing that this is one of the ways in which the home economy 
work can do much to help relief work by getting a clear view of con- 
ditions and by cutting off all unnecessary relief, such as the above. 
The New York Association for Improving the Condition of the Poor 
has already found that this work makes possible a decided saving of 
relief fimds. 

To retm-n to the case in hand: The first lessons will be given in revi- 
sion of the budget, substitution of bottled milk for condensed milk, 
etc. The instructor will then proceed to emphasize the need for 
saving money and will bring up all other items necessary to be con- 
sidered in promoting a decent standard of li\Tng. 

The following outline will show the work done in the Italian family. 
It consisted of a widow and five children. Antoinette, the oldest, 
was a suspected tuberculosis case. She was taken from work, and the 
family was put on an adequate reUef basis. Lessons were planned to 
teach Antoinette, while she is at home, the use of American foods and 
the proper feeding of the family. The lessons include the following 
topics: I, Eggs and custard, oatmeal, soup; 2, Beef tea, rice, pudding; 
3, Primes, rice and tomatoes, chuck steak, cornstarch pudding; 4, 
Special diet for the baby who is nursing at 13 months; 5, Diet for the 
family, baked bananas, graham drop cakes, salmon loaf; 6, Split 
peas and bacon; 7, Diet written out for the baby which is to be 
taken to the Milk Station weekly and watched during the summer; 8, 
Ice cream, cornstarch pudding and broiled meat cakes; and 9, Family 
budget. In connection with lesson 4, the mother was advised to wean 
the baby and it was put on regular diet for a child of its age. The 
family was now put on an $8 a week pension, and the weekly budget 
was to be kept by Antoinette, under the supervision of the teacher. 



432 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

The budget as it now stands is as follows: 

Rent $8.00 

Food 19.00 

Fuel 1 . 00 

Light 1 . 00 

Clothing 6.00 to $8.00 

Total $35 00 

The total number of units in the family is 3.6 and the daily average 
food expenditure 25 cents. Two bottles of milk are supplied per day 
by the Association for Improving the Condition of the Poor. Mean- 
time, the visiting nurse has found, on further examination by special- 
ists, that Antoinette is probably not tuberculous and that she can 
soon resume her work. 

Nothing has been said about a certain distinct class of cases, that 
is, those cases that are frankly said to be "below the poverty line", 
where relief is necessary and where instruction must be given in the 
proper use of relief. Where the family is depending on the Associa- 
tion for Improving the Condition of the Poor, fully or in part for food, 
it is the aim of the Society as far as possible to have this relief planned 
to meet the actual needs of the family. The woman is told that she 
will receive nothing unless she is willing to cooperate by using the 
food that is sent, and by learning how to prepare it properly. It is 
quite easy to gain this cooperation as the woman's interest always 
responds to tactful advances. 

It is believed that the work which has been described has a future 
and that the coming years will see its workers increasing in numbers 
on the staffs of large and small organizations for systematic distribu- 
tion of relief. 

The development of this work includes the following plan: All 
home teaching will be grouped under one head. When the Home 
Economy Department begins work on a case, the very practical 
teaching of the staff of Visiting Housewives will be the first thing 
introduced. After these women have brought about order in the 
home by means of demonstration, the Diet Teacher, Sewing Teacher, 
and Budget Teacher will next be called in. The Sewing Teacher will 
be held responsible for basing her lessons on the actual clothing need 
of the family, and the lessons will be planned by the Supervisor so 
that the expenditure for clothing will bear a proper relation to the 
income and also to other items in the budget. In this way it is hoped 
that the condition of the family will be bettered, both hygienically 
and economically. 



TWO YEARS AS A DOMESTIC EDUCATOR IN 
BUFFALO. NEW YORK.^ 

Mrs. Annie L. Hansen. 

North American Civic League for Immigrants. 

The Buffalo Committee of the North American Civic League for 
Immigrants opened an office and started its general work for the edu- 
cation, protection and assimilation of the immigrant, in 191 1. At 
a meeting held early in the year it was decided to take steps to deal 
more personally with immigrant women. The committee rightly 
reaUzed that if we are to have good citizens we must have good homes; 
right living induces right thinking and right doing. So the staff of 
Domestic Educators started to work, going into the homes of the im- 
migrants, at first in a social way, and gradually, as suspicions and 
distrust were laid to rest and a friendly feeling was estabUshed, start- 
ing a regular routine of instruction. All the newly arrived immi- 
grants are reported to us day by day from the government hsts at 
Ellis Island. 

Before approaching the homes, we called upon all the agencies 
working in the immigrant districts and established a system whereby 
we all cooperate. Through these agencies, the Educators have 
gained their introduction to many of the homes. Especially are we 
fortunate in having the support of the parish priests, who in some 
instances have given the use of their school rooms and even of the 
rectory to the Educator. One Hungarian priest announced in his 
church that any woman needing a friend to advise her upon any 
subject should call upon the Domestic Educator. 

The lack of fresh air is the first thing to be noticed on entering the 
homes, and so ventilation has to be taught, and proves one of the 
hardest subjects; but when once thoroughly tested is usually adhered 
to. The Educators are often called upon in this connection to help 
re-arrange furniture so as to place the beds in the tiny rooms as 
far as possible out of the draught from an open window. In many 
cases we have been able to persuade a family to put a bed lounge 
into an almost imused front room and so avoid overcrowding in bed- 

^Presented at the Sixth Annual Meeting of the American Home Economics Asso- 
ciation, Ithaca, 1913. 

433 



434 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

rooms. One Ruthenian woman accepted lessons in ventilation in 
fear and trembling, and chiefly, because Father Semtrotowich ad- 
vised her to; but after finding that her children improved in health 
with proper ventilation, and her husband became strong and well 
after an attack of pneumonia, she became a missionary of ventila- 
tion, and is a tremendous power for a good health standard in the 
Ruthenian community. 

The great majority of immigrants come to us from country dis- 
tricts and have been accustomed to peasant labor and mode of liv- 
ing; naturally modem methods of sanitation are as foreign to them as 
is our language. Unless we wish to see the immigrant colony de- 
velop into a germ breeder for the whole community, we m.ust teach 
these people simple rules of sanitation. In home after home, it has 
been found that the sink was used for garbage and toilet purposes as 
well as for what it was originally intended. One immigrant woman 
removed the strainer which covers the drain pipe of her sink because 
she found the potato peelings would not go down. In the kitchens, 
garbage pails and toilet articles are left uncovered and unemptied 
for days at a time, especially in winter. The personal help which is 
necessary to drive home to the women the lessons of sanitation is not 
easy or pleasant to give, but it is absolutely essential that the Edu- 
cator give a practical demonstration. We may have to threaten to 
appeal to the law in the shape of the Board of Health, but this is un- 
usual, for generally the home will be kept sanitary if the family is 
impressed with the economic side of it. 

With ventilation introduced and a sanitary standard formed, the 
Educator may turn her attention to the general domestic hygiene of 
the family. So numberless are the lessons in household work that 
it is impossible to go into them in a short paper. Sweeping, dusting, 
dishwashing, washing, and ironing are some of the things demon- 
strated. We try to induce each woman to follow a system in doing her 
household work, which we plan for her; also to complete her daily 
work before going to the front fence or into the alley or street to gos- 
sip. One of the hardest things to overcome in teaching hygiene is 
shiftlessness and lack of thoroughness. It is easy to get a woman to 
see the need for cleaning the stove and floor, but not at all easy to get 
her to clean out cupboards and corners. The Educator has to con- 
stantly demand thoroughness in all things. Some women have a feel- 
ing that cleanliness is a condition only for the rich and that if one is 
poor it follows as a natural course that one is dirty. One Italian man 



1 913] Two Years as a Domestic Educator 435 

said, "Some people are born clean, some dirty, and my wife was bom 
dirty. She's happy, so why bother her?" We did bother her, never- 
theless, and after months of patient work and much personal service, 
this woman was gradually brought to where her home, her children, 
and she herself were clean, and for twelve months she has kept on 
without backsliding. The first work done in that home was the clean- 
ing of two windows, so that the family might see outside better. The 
woman's cooperation dated from that morning. Personal cleanliness 
is harder to teach than anything else, because the immigrant standard 
in this matter is so low. In order not to cause offense, the Educator 
has to impress upon the women the fact that the American climate 
demands more attention to details of the toilet than the old country. 
The first lesson is generally given in the form of a bath for the baby 
or for all the young members of the family, A bath for a baby has 
softened many a mother's heart and gained her confidence. We have 
found it necessary also to teach sex hygiene to the older girls, or to 
teach the mother and then induce her to teach her girl. One never 
knows how far-reaching the simple lessons in hygiene may be. After 
several calls when we talked about the weather, the need of the 
street being paved, etc., one woman allowed me to wash and curl the 
hair of her two Uttle girls. While this was in progress she became 
confidential and told me how her husband frequented the saloon, etc. 
Most of the immigrants are willing to take advice about food, be- 
cause a chance to learn how to prepare American dishes appeals to 
them. It is, however, more difficult to get them to correct errors in 
the diet to which they are accustomed than to introduce new food- 
stuffs. We have had women tell us that no one in the family would 
eat cereals or drink cocoa. When the same things were properly pre- 
pared every member of the family enjoyed them. Perhaps the chief 
things to teach the immigrant in regard to food are the benefits to be 
derived from a mixed diet, and the danger of stimulants, especially 
for children. When teaching a woman what kinds of food to pur- 
chase and demonstrating how to prepare them, the Educator also 
teaches how to keep the food in a cleanly manner. Dietetics seems 
to be the easiest of all subjects to teach to immigrants. Many a 
woman, who could not be persuaded to keep clean or to ventilate her 
home, has learned how to feed her family. This may be because the 
immigrant expects new food in a new country, and because it is easier 
for the Educator to demonstrate in this subject, with no knowledge 
of the language which the woman speaks. 



436 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

The most appealing work of all is the child welfare work. Immigrant 
children are very fascinating and a mother is always pleased by 
attention paid her children. The argument that the children will 
wish to be Uke American children and that the mother ought to care 
for them like American children usually prevails. It is interesting 
to see the new immigrant girl gradually throw oflF, one by one, the 
heavy, strange old country garments and try to copy the American 
girl, and at this period many good lessons in baby welfare work and 
child hygiene can be given the mother. The Educator has found it 
necessary to teach simple home nursing to the immigrant mothers. 
Lessons in baths, packs, poultices, the cleansing of cuts and sores 
and the care of simple burns and scalds have been given. Many 
little emergency boxes have been introduced into homes in the im- 
migrant districts, when the mothers have been persuaded that it is best 
to be prepared for accident and not to have to send to the drug store 
after it happens. Upon our advice and with a knowledge of how to 
use them, the women keep in their boxes hydrogen peroxide, a simple 
ointment, castor oil, sweet oil, boracic acid, bandages made of old 
linen, etc. 

Advice to prospective mothers takes a good deal of time. If the 
woman will have a doctor, then the case is turned over to the district 
nurse, but if she insists upon a midwife, as 90 per cent of the immi- 
grants do, then prenatal and postnatal instruction is given by the 
Educator. 

In this connection our advice is often asked about the clothes needed 
for the expected baby, and so instruction in buying, cutting out, and 
sewing little garments is given. In some famiUes sewing has been 
the only instruction given and many women have come to the of- 
fice and asked to be shown how to remodel and cut out garments. 
Darning and mending have had to be taught and women induced to 
mend clothes immediately after ironing and before putting away, 
instead of leaving it until the clothes are needed for wearing. When 
I went into this work I expected to teach many things but never mil- 
linery; yet that and many other unexpected things had to be done. 

We have established in the center of the Polish community where 
there are 88,000 Poles, a Domestic Educator's headquarters. There 
we have had two classes for girls every afternoon during the year — 
one in sewing with a lesson in hygiene and a story at the end, and one 
in food principles and cooking. We take only those girls who, on 
account of religious restrictions, are not allowed to go to public schools. 
The PoUsh schools teach no sewing or domestic science. Then for 



1913] Home Economics Work in Women's Clubs 437 

women we have had a class in cooking one morning a week, and one 
in dressmaking, the latter being taught by one of Buffalo's best dress- 
makers who has given up one morning each week for this purpose. 
We have found that the lessons learned at the Center have been car- 
ried home and put into practice there. On one occasion, one of the 
Charity Organisation workers said she knew we had taught the women 
at the Wednesday class how to prepare rice and canned salmon, be- 
cause on the following Friday she had found it in so many homes. 

We of the North American Civic League for Immigrants know 
that instruction of the kind which has been described is needed in 
almost every immigrant home, and we believe it should be done on 
a large scale, imder state or ci\ic control. We believe that every 
immigrant w^oman should receive the Domestic Educator as natur- 
ally as she now receives medical examination at Ellis Island or sends 
her children to school. America has hundreds of thousands of im- 
migrants li\dng in communities apart, li\'ing lives which are from a 
moral, sanitary, hygienic and economic standpoint as foreign to Amer- 
ican standards as they were in the peasant communities from which 
they came. We have a tremendous problem to deal with, and for 
our own protection, if for no other reason, it behooves us to deal with 
it quickly and thoroughly. 

HOME ECONOMICS WORK IN THE GENERAL FEDERA- 
TION OF WOMEN'S CLUBS. 

Helen Louise Johnson. 

Chairman Household Economics Department. 

To most of the readers of the Journ^vl the work done in home eco- 
nomics by the General Federation of Women's Clubs is well known, but 
in order to realize the very rapid development of this movement in 
this special organization a few mile stones should be noted. 

Among the congresses held in Chicago during the Columbian Ex- 
position in 1893 there was one which resulted in the formation of the 
National Household Economics Association. Its aims are especially 
interesting because, although furnishing a very good foundation for 
future work, they show the limited scope of the home economics 
field at that time. As declared in the constitution, they were: 

I. To awaken the public mind to the importance of establishing bureaus of in- 
formation where there can be an exchange of wants and needs between employer 
and employed in every department of home and social life. 



438 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

2. To promote among members of the Association a more scientific knowledge 
of the economic value of various foods and fuels, a more intelligent understanding 
of correct plumbing and drainage in our homes, as well as need for pure water and 
good light in a sanitarily built house. 

3. To secure skilled labor in every department of our homes and to organize 
schools of household science and service. 

For ten years this National Household Economics Association held 
annual meetings in large cities forming state organizations and through 
these the clubs worked. Its last president was Mrs. Linda Hull 
Larned of Syracuse, who had felt for some time that the best work 
would be accompHshed by merging the Association and the clubs. 
At its annual meeting in Toledo in 1903, the National Household 
Economics Association passed its work on to the General Federation 
of Women's Clubs and the first report of a home economics committee 
was made at the biennial in St. Louis in 1904. At that meeting one 
session was devoted to the subject under the leadership of its chair- 
man, Mrs. Arthur C. Neville of Wisconsin, assisted by Mrs. Mary Hin- 
man Abel, Mrs. Adelaide Hoodless and Mrs. Nellie Kedzie Jones. 
It was at this time that a special appeal was made to the Federated 
Clubs to assist in introducing the teaching of domestic science in 
every school in the land where girls were pupils. This is still being 
asked and needs to be asked, in spite of the enormous spread of the 
teaching of these subjects within the past ten years. 

This brief resume has been given as an introduction to the program 
of work outlined for the home economics department in this tenth 
year of its existence as a distinct department of the clubs. When the 
biennial occurs in June, 19 14, in Chicago, it will be but a little 
over twenty years since that first Household Economics Association 
was formed in that same city, and just ten years since home economics 
became an accepted part of the club activities. At this writing there 
are forty-five states which have actively working, progressive home 
economics committees, or departments. The states of Alabama and 
Nevada alone do no work of this character under separate depart- 
ments, although they have educational and public health departments 
where some home economics subjects are considered. 

The present home economics committee of the General Federation 
consists of eighteen members, including chairman and vice-chairman, 
twelve of whom are trained home economics teachers actively en- 
gaged in home economics work in different parts of the United States. 
The state chairmen in many cases are lecturers, supervisors, and 
teachers of this subject; but it is fair to say that some of the most 



1913] Home Economics Work in Women's Clubs 439 

valuable work has been done by those who have not had normal 
training or teaching experience along these lines. It is very inter- 
esting to analyze the committees of the General Federation, for they 
represent its working force. It is often said in criticism of clubs that 
only idle women belong to them. Of this committee, thirteen are 
busy working women with their hands quite full without this added 
labor to which much time must be given to accomplish results; and 
the proportion is about the same on the other committees. Until 
one works with the General Federation it is impossible to realize the 
amount of work done by this organization and what it means in our 
home lives. 

The facts in relation to the state chairmen have been given, not 
because splendid work is not being done in states whose club leaders 
do not represent those trained in its principles, but to emphasize the 
change of view point in ten years. There is still frequent need to 
say that home economics is not merely cooking and sewing; there is 
occasion to convert some doubting ones who cannot believe it has 
content worthy of recognition in many schools. That the meaning 
of home economics — its scope and content — has won recognition in 
the clubs is shown by the first recommendations made by the home 
economics committee when it came into office. They were as follows: 

That every opportunity be used and a united effort made to more definitely es- 
tablish the meaning and scope of home economics in order to create a common 
understanding that it is not limited to the activities of the household but compre- 
hends those economic and social studies which place its higher forms on a cultural 
study basis. 

The uniform adoption by the clubs of the name home economics, that being the 
name decided upon by the joint committee of the National Economics Associ- 
ation and American Home Economics Association as the one best fitted to desig- 
nate the whole group of several subjects included under this generic title. This 
committee was composed of heads of college departments and experiment stations 
with the leaders of the home economics movement. 

An intelligent cooperation with those endeavoring to establish or carry on work 
in social centers, whether in urban, suburban or rural communities. It is our be- 
lief that this should be done with the assistance of the Grange or Farmers' Insti- 
tutes in those places where a separate plan would mean duplication of effort. 

A reaching out along every line of endeavor to give intelligent assistance 
to the women and homes of the rural districts, with a desire to inspire the forma- 
tion of rural clubs and those composed of young women, in all parts of the country, 
who may most easily be approached and interested through the subject of home 
economics. 

The discouragement of those lectures, associations and exhibits which are rather 
commercial than educational. 

The establishment of such ideals in food, clothing, and shelter as will serve to 



440 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

free both the home and the individual from the costly demands of those fads and 
fashions which are not expressions of ourselves or our needs, but seem to indicate 
an unthinking or foolish tendency to copy others. 

Cooperation with those working for college entrance credits in home economics 
in order that we may strengthen and deepen the high school work and introduce 
the proper and needed forms of home economics work into the grammar grades of 
every school and every state in the country. 

In September it was decided that in cooperation with the public 
health department an educational campaign for the securing of a uni- 
form food law should be entered upon, and a more active movement 
made for the establishment of entrance credits in home economics. 
Already the request for the uniform adoption of the name "home eco- 
nomJcs" in place of the many different titles given to the work had met 
with results. Almost invariably, where this has been requested uith 
an explanation of the reason, the state federations have been glad to 
change the name of their state department if necessary. Then it is 
only a matter of time until the clubs composing the federation follow 
suit. 

The following recommendations have now been made for the work 
for this year, with a hope to show some results at the June biennial. 

To adopt the name "Home Economics" for the state departments working along 
these lines, as well as in the clubs. 

To educate public opinion and arouse interest in the need of a uniform food law. 

To urge the granting of entrance credits in home economics by those colleges not 
already giving them. 

To endeavor to have cooking and sewing given in all elementary schools and made 
compulsory in the grades. 

The last two recommendations are of the greatest moment to 
the American Home Economics Association. There is no question 
but that entrance credits in home economics are needed for the secur- 
ing of the teaching of these subjects in the lower grades. But the 
difficulty lies in exactly the place where difficulty has been experienced 
in the workings of the present pure food law — in lack of uniformity. 
If there were a prescribed high school course in home economics as 
definite as that in high school mathematics or English, it would be 
comparatively easy to secure credits for work of the right sort. But 
there is not a uniform prescribed high school course. There is much 
done in many places in the name of home economics which does not 
deserve credit, and which the college is right in not recognizing. 
Nevertheless we cannot have cooking and sewing made compulsory 
in the elementary school in all places until high school work is given 
established value in entrance credits to colleges. It is a difficult 



19 13] Home Economics Work in Women's Clubs 441 

situation in our Eastern States, but needs agitation if for no other 
purpose than to give opportunity to show the scope, meaning and ac- 
tual content of proper home economics teaching. We need the sym- 
pathetic cooperation of school superintendents and principals, the 
support of state superintendents and commissoners of education. 
Most of all we need to get together and decide what should or should 
not be taught in these different schools as definitely as we prescribe 
chemistry or many other things. This committee is working in coop- 
eration with the Entrance Credit Committee of the National Eco- 
nomics Association in endeavoring to secure this needed thing. 

The following account of the work of the Household Department 
of Wisconsin Federation of Women's Clubs, gives an idea of the char- 
acter of the club work: 

Believing that the study of the rights of the child is one of the most important 
problems of the day, the members of the Household Economics Committee have 
suggested this as one of the subjects for study and discussion during the coming 
year. For the purpose of rendering all possible assistance to the clubs, the members 
of the committtee offer the following suggestive outline, with a number of references 
under each topic which may be helpful in furnishing material for club papers. 

For those who may be especially interested in the new administrative problems 
of the home which are presenting themselves to the women of today, we submit an 
outline with bibliography. 

For those who are interested in the more specialized or technical subjects, we sug- 
gest certain topics which are of general interest. We also add a bibliography. 

The members of the committee earnestly urge every club to devote one or more 
meetings to a study and discussion of one or more of these subjects. We would 
urge that a few of the leading books which deal with home economics subjects be 
placed in the city libraries. Also, that the university and other lecturers in house- 
hold economics be secured whenever possible to lecture along their special lines 
of work. We would suggest also, that the clubs make free use of all the various 
government bulletins. Lists of the free publications and a price list of those docu- 
ments for which a nominal charge is made, may be obtained by writing to the 
Superintendent of Documents, Washington, D. C. 

The Wisconsin University Extension Department is planning to give during 
the coming year correspondence courses in home economics subjects, especially 
those dealing with the food and clothing problems. We feel that this will be very 
valuable for the women of the state. Further information regarding these courses 
may be obtained by writing to the Extension Department of the University. 

The committee will be very glad to furnish upon request more detailed out- 
lines and further information regarding bibliographies and to render every possi- 
ble assistance to the clubs of the state. 

The committee consists of: Miss Peari MacDonald, Chairman, Milwaukee 
County School of Agriculture; Miss Abby L. Mariatt, College of Agriculture, Madi- 
son; Mrs. Frances Boughton, Menomonie; Mrs. Henry Sullivan, Milwaukee; Mrs. 
Dave Jones, Sparta. 



THE TRAINING OF THE SCHOOL DIETITIAN.' 
Lillian A. Kemp. 

Drexel Institute. 

The training of the school dietitian is a subject which makes a 
strong appeal to all who are interested in the school feeding move- 
ment, as so much depends upon the person bearing this title and the 
character of her work. 

Ten years ago the school dietitian was practically unknown; today 
there is a constant and ever increasing demand for the capable, well 
trained woman who can efficiently direct the system of food adminis- 
tration in the school dining hall. This position requires a woman 
especially qualified and well trained, one with definite ideas concern- 
ing her field and with ability to execute them. It is an ideal pro- 
fession for a woman, demanding personality and enthusiasm, which 
are as essential here as in the home. 

A woman of mature years and general experience is undoubtedly 
the best person for a position of this character. The course which 
Drexel Institute has offered for some time has brought together in 
each succeeding year, women from twenty-one to forty-five years of 
age — •teachers, bookkeepers, secretaries, nurses, housekeepers, and 
others who wished a change in occupation. This group has also 
included many who, for the first time, faced the necessity of self- 
maintenance. While it is difficult, in view of other qualifications, to 
fix an age limit, it seems advisable that the minimum be twenty-five 
and the maximum forty-five years. Exception should be made, how- 
ever, in favor of candidates of marked executive ability and accept- 
able personality. 

We are all aware of the tendency among our younger graduates 
to use the position of school dietitian as a stepping stone to something 
easier or, as they think, more attractive. These weaken the system, 
reflect upon the school from which they have been graduated, and 
limit the possibilities of efficient work. For this reason it devolves 

^Presented at the Sixth Annual Meeting of the American Home Economics 
Association, Ithaca, 1913. 

442 



1913] Training the School Dietilian 443 

upon those directly responsible for training school dietitians to create 
an interest in all phases of the work and to impress them with the 
seriousness of the undertaking. The work is worth the best that is 
in one and should be entered upon as a profession. The many re- 
sponsibilities of such a position are easily realized, and its educational 
possibilities are scarcely limited. 

Assuming that the prospective dietitian possesses the necessary 
quahfications, viz., executive ability, perseverance, and enthusiasm, 
let us consider the most important factors in her period of training. 
This brings us to a point where we should decide which is more ad- 
vantageous, the training offered by a normal course, which covers 
a period of from two to four years, or by the housekeepers' course, 
covering in most schools not more than one year when the students 
speciahze for the field of administration. In Philadelphia some of 
the school lunch room positions are occupied by graduates of the 
housekeepers' course, others by women well qualified to teach. The 
former have the advantage of T\nder practical experience, the latter 
of a better foundation of science. 

Since the majority of the graduates of the housekeepers' course 
at Drexel Institute become school dietitians, I shall give a brief 
outline of their training. During the first semester the students 
concentrate on lecture and laboratory work, and are given oppor- 
timities for observation at Drexel and in other lunch rooms of the 
city. As soon as they are fully acquainted with departmental routine 
they are assigned special duties, such as planning menus, serving 
during lunch hour, and the care of institutional kitchen and store 
rooms. During the second semester it is a desirable privilege to be 
sent as student housekeeper to high school lunch rooms one day each 
week where practice can be had under expert supervision. 

The theoretical training of the school dietitian should consist of 
lectures on food production and manufacture, household sanitation, 
bacteriology, household chemistry, physiology, dietetics, institutional 
management, business customs and accounts, as well as minor sub- 
jects related to the work. The practical course should include food 
preparation in both small and large quantities, daily and weekly 
marketing, scientific laundry work, and the opportunity to manage 
the dining room in connection with her own training school. 

Skill in the preparation of food materials is of primary importance. 
This is gained only by repetition of processes until perfect confidence 
insures excellent results. This enables the student to develop meth- 



444 The Journal oj Home Economics [December 

ods best suited to large quantity work and thereby make herself 
more capable of directing others. She should have the opportunity 
of preparing a great variety of foods, at least everything included in 
the daily school lunch menu, and when the results are unsatisfactory 
she should repeat the process until the finished product meets all 
requirements. The advantage of repetition under these circumstances 
is three-fold — the student works with more ease and rapidity, has 
more self-confidence and produces a better article. The school dieti- 
tian may not be required to either market or purchase for her depart- 
ment but it is well to give thorough training along these lines. She 
must be capable of judging how it is done even if she does not have 
to do it. She should fijrst of all be instructed in the general prin- 
ciples of buying and the handling of institution supplies; she should 
visit the wholesale and retail markets of the city or town, and later 
actually have the opportunity of buying for lunch room and food 
laboratories for at least one month. Here she can put her business 
training into practice by keeping a cash account and filing bills and 
receipts. 

Concerning institutional management so much has been said and 
so little done that I approach this feature of my subject with some 
hesitancy. Our accumulated experience is still insufficient to furnish 
the needed confidence. Theoretical instruction without sufficient 
practice is of little value. The latter can be provided in part by 
using the lunch room of the school where she is trained as a labora- 
tory. In this way the student becomes acquainted with the prob- 
lems of institutional administration and solves them as they occur. 
Undoubtedly we are under obligation to furnish this practice, other- 
wise we are doing an injustice to the student, to the public, and to 
ourselves. Adding three months to the usual period of training may 
not seem desirable, particularly to the mature candidate, but wisely 
conducted, the advantages of such a course are many. If, therefore, 
the graduate could be placed as assistant to the manager of a large 
dining hall, where under direction she could systematically deal with 
every feature of the position, she would have the best possible prep- 
aration for independent work. Her compensation, other than a small 
salary or possibly only maintenance, would be the justifiable courage 
and confidence she would acquire to undertake the solution in her 
own position of the problems which are certain to confront her. 



REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON LAUNDRY 

MANAGEMENT OF THE INSTITUTION 

ECONOMICS SECTION. 

During the past year the laundry committee was increased in num- 
bers and efficiency by the addition of Miss Juniata Sheppard of 
Minnesota and Mr. Edgar A. Fisher of Indiana. 

Among the many possible lines of work two were chosen and these 
have been carried on to a limited extent. The committee was be- 
sieged for information as to the possibilities and cost of the com- 
munity laundry under rural conditions. They found themselves un- 
able to answer these questions and therefore set to work to find out. 
Investigations were set on foot and certain results are available. 

"The women have nursed wash-tub backaches for so many years 
since flail-threshing, scythe mowing and cradle-harvesting spine-pains 
for men passed into the past that the two ails have entirely lost step." 
No one will deny the necessity of lessening the labor of the farmers' 
wives, wherever it is possible to do so without lessening the efficiency 
of the home. The water supply on many farms is not what it should 
be for ease and convenience in laundering, and the clothes are gen- 
erally very dirty. 

The question of establishing the laundry in connection with the 
cooperative creamery was gone into in detail. In the creamery there 
is an abundance of hot water and steam for power machines and 
for sterilization. The water and steam should be piped to a sep- 
arate section or detached building to ensure sanitary conditions. 
Then it is surely practicable to use this surplus power when the 
family washing needs to be done and the housewife needs leisure. 

As Minnesota has led the United States in this experiment her 
experience is most instructive. The first cooperative rural laundry 
in the United States was established in Fillmore County, at Chat- 
field, Minn. It began work December 2, 1912.^ 

A short summary of this report is enhghtening: As is generally 
known "when women get interested in a thing and unitedly ask for 

1 For complete account see The Farmer, St. Paul, January 18, 1913, also The 
Country Gentleman, Philadelphia, June 14, 1913. 

445 



446 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

it, it comes." The final pressure brought to bear on the decision 
for or against this cooperative laundry was a farmers' picnic. We 
all know the custom of gi\ang the men "a square meal" before pre- 
senting some request. This time the men turned the tables and 
invited the women to vote with equal power with the men on the 
question "Laundry or no Laundry." At Chatfield there was already 
a "very profitable" creamery, paying "substantial dividends to its 
stockholders at the end of each year." For four or five years these 
dividends were retained as a sinking fund for emergencies. The 
report says: "The farmers never missed their money and the sum 
gradually assumed a respectable growth in the bank." With this 
money the company financed the cooperative laimdry to the amount 
of $5000. A separate building was erected and rented to a separate 
company, and a 10 h.p. gasoline engine was installed at a cost of 
$2000. A complete laundry equipment was put lq for $3000. To 
obtain this, shares were taken by town and farm purchasers, more 
than half, however, being farmers. 

Washing and ironing are done every day. Clothes brought on 
Monday can be returned on Wednesday. General family washing or 
flat work is charged at 5 cents a pound, including ironing by mangle. 
For ladies' wear, which requires hand ironing, an extra charge of 
from 2 to 6 cents per piece is made. Starched pieces come under 
separate charges — shirts, 8 to 10 cents; cuffs and collars, 2\ cents 
each. It is expected that the charge for the family wash may be 
reduced to 3 cents per pound, so that the total charge to the average 
family shall not exceed $2 per month. 

The farmers pay each month by having the bill for their laundry 
deducted from their creamery check. At regular periods a settlement 
is made, 6 per cent on the investment is deducted from the profits, 
and the remainder is rebated to the patrons in proportion to the 
amount of their washing bills, whether they are stockholders or not. 
The town patrons have collection and delivery charges with a con- 
sequent reduction in rebate. 

During the first month, December, 191 2, 50 farmers submitted an 
aggregate of 130 washings at a total cost of $127.27. The cost per 
washing was about 98 cents. A rebate of 10 per cent was granted 
making the average cost per washing about 91 cents. The second 
month the farm customers jumped to 71, and their washings to 156. 
In the short month of February there were 75 farm homes represented 
with 147 washings. The town people sent many more. "The labor 



1913] Report of Committee on Laundry Management 447 

force numbers six person exclusive of the manager." An experi- 
enced foreman from a city laundry is paid $25 per week; his M-ife, 
an expert laundress, gets $10 per week, and four girls receive 15 cents 
an hour. 

The laundry is lighted from a gasoline plant which also furnishes 
heat for the hand irons. "When the washing comes in the pieces 
are separated according to color." Ordinary flat work is washed 
separately and is divided into light and heavy. 

The manager does not consider the scheme an experiment, but 
believes that every successful creamery should have a laundry in con- 
nection. Under date of June 20, he says: "We are now building an 
addition so as to be able to accommodate our increasing patronage. 
Last week we washed and ironed 125 large family washings at a cost 
of about $1 per washing; we also did a large amount of bundle work. 
We are convinced that there should be a cooperative laundry in every 
prosperous and progressive community." 

The introduction of the parcel post, however, may change the 
situation, as the regular laundries, somewhat startled by the co- 
operative proposition, are making strenuous efforts to get the rural 
patronage. 

Certain general facts obtained through individual canvass show 
the conditions among Minnesota farms. 

Information received from Miss Mary L. Bull, instructor in the 
Extension Division of the University Farm, St. Paul, follows: 

1 . The use of electricity in the farm homes is rare. 

2. Some do use the small engines used on the farm for other pur- 
poses and some use water power; not nearly so many, however, 
as might. 

3. A comparative few have gasoline irons, and a few use alcohol, 
but I cannot say as to charcoal. 

4. Some use vacuum cleaners. 

5. Quite a good many use bread mixers. 

6. The use of gasoline gas for light is more general than I had 
supposed. 

The following information was obtained from representatives of 
the most progressive of the farmers' families of Minnesota in meetings 
assembled. 

Of the 136 families living on farms: 20 families use gasoline engines 
for laundry work; 104 families have hand washers and wringers; 4 
families send all laundry work to steam laundry; 53 families send 



448 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

collars and cuffs to steam lamidry; 13 families send all flat work to 
steam lamidry; 11 families have a woman come to the house and 
do lavmdry work; i family has a wringer only; i family has neither 
washer nor wringer. 

The following information was obtained from students in the High 
School at St. Anthony Park, Minnesota: 

Of the 173 families living in cities or towns: 10 families have water 
power washers and wringers; 2 families have gasoline power washers 
and wringers; 4 families have electric power washers and wringers; 
18 families send all laundry work to steam laundry; 51 families send 
all flat work to steam laundry; 78 families send all coUars and cuffs 
to steam laimdry; 51 families send all shirts to steam laundry; 20 
send part (kind not stated) to steam laundry; 23 families have a 
woman come to house to do washing; 10 families have a woman at 
the house part of the time; 6 have no washer, wringer or help. 

Miss Jessie Hoover has canvassed the States of Idaho, Montana, 
Washington and Oregon. 

The questionnaire sent by her to the Masters of the State Granges, 
to the State Dairy Commissioners, and to the managers of the 
Farmers' Cooperative creameries follows, with a digest of the an- 
swers received incorporated in it. 

Investigation of the feasibility of combining cooperative laundries with farmers' 
cooperative creameries. 

The follovsdng is a statement of the results of the tabulated information received: 

Name of the creamery furnishing information 

Location: Idaho, Washington, Oregon, Montana 

1. Do you maintain a laundry in connection with your cooperative creamery? 
All answered "No." 

2. Have you studied the success of creameries where laundering is done? 
2 answered "Yes," others "No." 

3. How many farms send milk or cream to you? 72,030. 

4. Have you a high pressure steam plant for your creamery, if so how many 
pounds pressure can you maintain? 100-150. 

5. Is this steam constantly in use? (i) If not could it for little or no addi- 
tional expense be utilized for other purposes, as in the laundry for sterilization, 
boilers for clothes, starch cookers, dry rooms etc.? All answered "Yes." (i) 4 
answered "Yes", others "No." 

6. Is the cream brought to the creamery in the ordinary farm wagon? i said 
"No." In the ordinary milk can? "Yes." Tightly closed? "Yes." 

7. In your opinion would it be possible to take bags, baskets with oil cloth 
covers, or boxes of laundry on the same wagon with milk cans? "Yes." 



1913] Report of Committee on Laundry Management 449 

8. Can the dean clothes be returned to the farm home in the same manner? 
I said "No," others said, "Yes." 

Would your patrons be willing to avail themselves of such an opportunity? 
"Cannot say." If so do you think that the work of the farm home would be 
greatly lessened? "Yes." 

10. Do you think such a plan would help to make the creamer>' a financial 
success? 2 said "Xo," 2 in doubt, others "Yes." Could it be carried on with 
economy to the farmer? 2 in doubt. 

11. Is there any demand for "rough dry" washing, letting the housewife do 
the ironing'? "Yes." 

12. Could a separate room be devoted to the laimdry or could the steam be 
piped to a separate building which might be used as a laundry, thus avoiding 
unsanitary conditions? i answered "No", others "Yes", separate building. 

13. Are the employees in your creamery kept busy constantly at all seasons 
of the year? "Yes" and "No". If not could you utilize such persons to nm the 
laundry machinery? i "No." 

14. If the School of Agriculture of your state should train young women in the 
chemistry of textiles, and laundry processes would you be willing to employ them 
to manage a cooperative laundry? i in doubt, others "Yes." If so what wages 
could they reasonably e.xpect? "Cannot say." 

Name of person furnishing information 

Remarks: Of all the creameries canvassed only one was universally negative. The 
answer in this case was "No time to play." In general great interest is shown. 

In reply to these letters the committee foimd that there are a 
nimiber of farmers' cooperative creameries. Up to the present time 
no farmers' cooperative laundry in the four states mentioned has 
been found but certain creameries in the states of Wisconsin and 
Kansas have added the cooperative laundries. Miss Hoover's pur- 
pose in this particular investigation was twofold: first, a desire to 
relieve the farm home of the drudgery of what someone has termed 
"blue Monday;" second, to find definite employment for students 
graduating from the shorter courses of the agricultural colleges (such 
students not having had sufficient training to become teachers and 
many of them not desiring to be domestics). A third purpose might 
be added that in many cases the cooperative creamery has not proved 
a financial success and this seems to be one method of reaching that 
end. 

In order to show the interest which has been taken in the cooper- 
ative laimdry investigations of the extreme northwest the following 
letters are quoted: 

Dairy Commissioner of Idaho: I was glad to get your letter of recent date with 
reference to the utilizing of waste steam from creamery plants for steam laundry 
purposes. I see nothing objectional to this, providing it is piped to a place remote 



450 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

from the creamery, so that the unsanitary conditions that result from our average 
laundry will not have its effect upon the dairy products prepared in our cooper- 
ative creameries. Any assistance I can give you along this line of research I shall 
be only too glad to give. 

Dairy Commissioner of Montana: I do not see anything wrong with the list of 
questions that you have got for the creameries, and shall be pleased to have you 
take this matter up with the Montana creameries. With best wishes for your 
success in the matter. 

Dairy Commissioner of Oregon: I am certainly in favor of anything along this 
line. We all know that a great burden of unavoidable work usually falls upon 
the housewife located upon the farm and the dairy farm is no exception in this 
case and anything that can offer a relief from some of these burdens must neces- 
sarily be hailed with approval by all parties interested in these questions. I see 
no reason why a cooperative creamery might not operate this way as indicated 
by these questions. In fact, after reviewing them thoroughly it seems to me that 
question number 7 is the only one contained therein that might be objectionable. 
However if in all cases closed baskets were used for the transportation of soiled 
clothing I do not believe there would be any objection to transporting them with 
the milk. 

. The country creamery has been built up and grown to its present 
status for the reason that from the economical standpoint it is a money saver as 
well as a labor saver. This, we might say, is due to aU our later day improve- 
ments including many conveniences which we find in the country home at present 
and which at one time were looked upon as accessories to city life. So let us look 
forward to the day when the city laundry may be made to reach the country home 
and I congratulate you upon this step and hope to see it carried forward. 

Dairy Commissioner of Washington: To combine these with cooperative cream- 
eries, would, it seems to me, be a doubtful experiment unless two separate build- 
ings were erected, both however, operated by the same power as a matter of eco- 
omy and then the greatest care must be exercised in the drainage and sanitary 

conditions With these latter precautions I think the matter might 

be worked out economically on behalf of the farmers. 

Master of the State Grange of Washington: This is indeed one of the most impor- 
tant and advanced ideas and such a laundry should be established in every 
creamery located in the rural districts. In many places in Kansas these rural 
laimdries are in operation and give universal satisfaction. 

Master of the State Grange of Idaho: I would like to see some such plan carried 
out as suggested in your letter of the 22nd. However, creameries are pretty 
scarce in our vicinity. We are hoping to see such establishments erected in the 
near future. I have been thinking about this laundry business for some time, 

especially when having to help out on wash day I hope to live 

to see the day when conditions will be changed. 

Miss Hoover says that she will send out letters and questions to the 
other western states sometime during the summer and hopes to be 
ready with further information along this line next year if the Asso- 
ciation so desires. 



1913] Report of Committee on Laundry Management 451 

Naturally the next step in the project is to plan an inexpensive 
and satisfactory equipment for such purposes. 

The second line of work investigated by the committee and fairly 
summarized was uniformity in charges and uniformity in marks among 
the commercial laundries. 

This work, instigated by Mrs. Dewey, aimed to prevent the multi- 
pUcity of laundry marks and their prominence. 

Certain suggestions were made and these were sent to representa- 
tive laundries for study. 

The verdict seems unanimous — there can be no uniformity in price, 
for there is no uniformity in the amount of soil, and only in a very 
few articles any uniformity in size and style of the piece. Wages 
differ and the nmning expenses vary greatly. Charges are now stand- 
ardized as closely as possible. This appUes only to the large com- 
mercial laundries. The small plants are independent and a law imto 
themselves. 

Uniformity in marking involves two elements — the place and the 
symbol. Most of the better plants already have uniformity of place. 
Uniformity of symbol seem to some most undesirable as it eliminates 
the possibility of identification when complaints occur. 

The following may serve as a basis for simplicity and uniformity 
in marking garments : Garments which button either in front or back, 
mark on inner button side, midway between top and second button; 
garments which button with bands around the waist, mark on in- 
side of band near button. 

These two simple directions will cover the majority of underclothing, 
but on delicate garments with ribbons in place of openings, owners 
should mark tapes and sew on directly under left arm opening, unless 
they do not object to ink there, which will probably show through. 

A uniform symbol system might be worked out on some such basis 
as the Cutter alphabetic order table for libraries, which, with an index 
for both names and laundry pieces, would be simple enough for gen- 
eral use and might thus secure uniformity. 

There is a fair degree of uniformity among the largest laimdries but 
the smaller plants and indi\adual launderers consult their own con- 
venience or have not yet reahzed the needs and dissatisfaction of their 
patrons. 

It may be possible for the readers of this journal to propose an 
acceptable system. 



452 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

The following list combines the different practices of several promi- 
nent laundries, at present, and is published here for examination and 
criticism. 

Undershirts — wrong side, back of neck, middle. 

wrong side of inner lap between first and second button. 
Underdrawers — wrong side, button lap, top. 

wrong side, button lap, between first and second, 
wrong side, button lap, near button. 
Night shirts — wrong side, button lap, lower edge. 

wrong side, middle of neck, under collar. 
Night dresses (open) — wrong side, button lap, lower edge. 

(closed) — wrong side, button lap, under upper button, 
wrong side, near shoulder, 
wrong side, under left arm hole. 
Chemises — wrong side, under left arm hole, 
wrong side, on shoulder, 
marked tape under left arm opening. 
Drawers — wrong side, behind button. 

wrong side, button side, at top. 
Corset covers — wrong side, below last button. 

wrong side, button side, lower edge, 
wrong side, under left arm hole, 
marked tape under left arm hole. 
Shirts — wrong side, back of neckband, above button hole, 
wrong side, back of neckband, right of button hole, 
wrong side, button lap, between first and second button. 
Skirts — wrong side, near button on band, 
wrong side, right side of button. 
Shirt-waists — wrong side, below last button. 
Collars — wrong side, middle button hole, above. 

wrong side, right side of middle button hole. 
Cuffs — wrong side, middle. 

wrong side, right side of center button hole, 
wrong side, end, near tab. 
Aprons — wrong side, button side, end of band, 
wrong side, near beginning of strings. 
Table cloths — wrong side, near end of hem, any comer. 
Napkins — wrong side, near end of hem, any comer. 

wrong side, near comer, not near monogram. 
Sheets — wrong side, near end of small hem. 

wrong side, left hand lower comer, small hem. 
Pillow slips — wrong side, near opening, 
wrong side, right of seam, 
wrong side, left of seam. 
Blankets and Bed Spreads — wrong side, near comer. 



19 13] Report of Committee on Laundry Management 453 

Towels — wrong side, end opposite to monogram. 

wrong side, lower border, smoothest part, near comer, 
name woven in if possible. 
Hose — wrong side, at top, near seam. 

marked tapes sewed on, or fine tagged laundry safety pins. 
Handkerchiefs — marked tape sewed through thickest part of hem, removed before 
delivery, 
marked tape through thickest part of hem and tied loosely, re- 
moved, 
very fine tagged safety pins put through thickest part of hem. 
no mark, washed in net bags. 
Coats — wrong side, center of back of neck. 
Combinations — wrong side, center of back of neck. 
Dresses — wrong side, button side, at waist. 
Vests — wrong side, on strap. 
Neckties — wrong side, middle of back. 
Pajamas — same as underwear. 

The "Trademark," or variation in mark, serves as a ready means 
of recognition and proof both to patron and to laundryman. It is 
the small concern, the "hand laundry," the "one-day-service" plants, 
that make most of the trouble in the multiplication of marks. They 
have so little to lose that they will not study the convenience of the 
patrons to the extent necessary to bring about uniformity or a diminu- 
tion of marks. 

The system of marks recommended by the committee is open for 
your inspection and suggestion. ^ 

S. Maria Elliott, Chairman, 
L, Ray Balderston, 
Jessle M. Hoover, 
Juniata Sheppard, 
Edgar A. Fisher, 

Committee. 



* Suggestions concerning this subject may be sent to Miss Emma Gunther, 
Teachers College, Columbia University, New York City. 



"AMERICAN COOKERY. BY AN AMERICAN ORPHAN 

1819." 

Benjamin R. Aistdrews. 

The Journal presents elsewhere, through the courtesy of Miss 
Anna Barrows, a photographic reproduction of the title page and 
a typical page of recipes from "American Cookery, or the Art of 
Dressing Viands, Fish, Poultry, and Vegetables; and the best mode 
of making Puff-pastes, Pies, Tarts, Puddings, Custards and Pre- 
serves; and all kinds of Cakes from the Imperial Plum to Plain Cake; 
Adapted to the Country and all grades of life." By an American 
Orphan. Brattleborough (Vermont), 1819. The book came to Miss 
Barrows from her grandmother to whom, while a young girl, it was 
a gift, probably in the year of its pubHcation. Mrs. Lincoln of Boston 
owns another copy which her publishers picked up in England some 
years ago and presented to her. The recipe which our quotation 
gives for "Syllabubs" ought to be famous, especially the recipe at 
the top of the page — "To make a fine syllabub from the cow: Sweeten 
a quart of cider with double refined sugar, grate nutmeg into it, then 
milk your cow into your liquor, when you have thus added what 
quantity of milk you think proper, pour half a pint or more, in pro- 
portion to the quantity of syllabub you make, of the sweetest cream 
you can get all over it." Though the reader of today perceives at 
a glance the difficulty in securing the necessary bovine cooperation 
in concocting this early American nectar of the gods, yet each 
reader will register a vow that when he owns a farm he will main- 
tain a special cow and private cider press devoted solely to the pro- 
duction of "syllabubs." 

In another edition of the "Orphan's" cookbook is another recipe, 
which deserves fame, on "How to broil a steak with two Newspapers" 
— so that even our latest paperbag cookery had a fore-runner in this 
old time practitioner of the gentle art of cookery. 

In passing, one might suggest the value of old books like this in 
giving a background to our home economics teaching of today. In 
looking over old book collections and in visiting second-hand book 
stores, let us have our craft in mind. 

454 



EDITORIALS. 

Secretary Houston of the Department of Agriculture, on October 
I, sent out an inquiry addressed to "the housewives in the homes 

of official crop correspondents," asking suggestions as 
The Depart- to ways in which the Department of Agriculture might 
ment of Agri- serve the American home. The Secretary, in his cir- 
culture and cular, (50,000 copies of which were sent out), stated 
the Home that he had received a letter which said: "The farm 

Woman. woman has been a most neglected factor in the rural 

problem and she has been especially neglected by the 
National Department of. Agriculture." "This letter was written," 
the Secretary continues, " not by a woman but by a broad-minded man 
so thoroughly in touch with the domestic and agricultural needs of the 
country that his opinions have great weight." 

This action on the part of the new Secretary cannot but be grati- 
fying to all workers in home economics who have appreciated the 
value of the services which the Department of Agriculture is already 
rendering to the home and who have been anxious to see this service 
extended in needed ways. One must take issue, however, with 
the Secretary's informant as to the neglect of the farm women in the 
past by the national Department of Agriculture. The long list of 
Farmers' Bulletins dealing with topics of food and nutrition is a service 
such as no other national government has offered to its home women. 
Teachers of household science have recognized the value of tliis serv- 
ice from the first. The late Professor Atwater, formerly director 
of the Office of Experiment Stations in the Department of Agriculture 
and the first American authority in the field of nutrition, established 
this strikingly useful series of popular bulletins for home betterment; 
to him also we owe, in large part, the recognition of household sci- 
ence today as a subject worthy of investigation and study. Pro- 
fessor Atwater, it should be remembered, suggested the first con- 
ference on household economics at Lake Placid fifteen years ago; 
and the ten national gatherings there, as well as the later meetings 
of teachers and other workers in household science, have always 
recognized the value of the services rendered to the home by the 

455 



456 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

Department of Agriculture through its investigations and popular 
publications. This was illustrated at the last meeting of the 
American Home Economics Association at Cornell University in 
June, when among the resolutions with regard to legislation the 
following minute was adopted: The Association recognizes the great 
value of the acti\aties now conducted by the United States Depart- 
ment of Agriculture, especially in its Division of Nutrition Investi- 
gations of the Office of Experiment Stations in their relation to the 
home, and especially urges that the Department of Agriculture pro- 
vide as rapidly as possible for the broadening of these investigations 
which serv^e the farm homes and other homes of our country, so that 
problems of clothing and shelter shall receive attention equally vnth. 
those of nutrition. 

The Journal of Home Economics would simply express again the 
appreciation of its readers for the aid already rendered by the Depart- 
ment of Agriculture and their gratification that the new Secretary 
has under consideration an extension of its services to the home 
women of the country. 

The possessor of a household purse however shallow belongs to a 
guild whose combined outgo must be reckoned in billions. It is the 
woman whose choice dictates the furnishings and 
The Press fittings of the house, the items that make up the 
as a House- biUs for food and clothing and the thousand outlays 
hold Aid. classed in the expense account under sundries, that 

pitfall of the inexperienced manager. And so well 
recognized is this power of the household buyer that a newspaper 
which rehes on income from its advertisers cannot hope for success 
unless it can prove that it is a "family paper" and read by women. 

But there yet remain many untried ways by which the daily news- 
paper might tighten its hold on the woman reader. For instance, it 
could take more seriously those crises in the household which are 
ever recurring and far more important than the need of a waist pat- 
tern or a recipe for a pudding. The housewife needs, most of all, 
help in making connection with those who do various kinds of work 
by the hour, day, or week and still more with those who might be 
induced to undertake it, and her present failure to make this con- 
nection is partly owing to the fact that she does not know how to 
write an advertisement. How should she know? It is a business of 
itself which has been found worthy of careful study. 



1913] Editorials 457 

The advertising manager might well consider that this part of his 
field is badly organized at present, that few women, comparatively, 
attempt to find their household help by advertising because of pre- 
vious failures, and that when they do advertise, they state their re- 
quirements badly, often omitting essential points. 

The trained staff of any newspaper could change this state of things 
in a twinkling. An English journal has done it during the last year. 
The London Daily Mail prints a form to be filled out by the would- 
be employer and it covers all requirements and pri\ileges; the kind 
of house, \i not a flat, whether with or wathout basement; number in 
the family; kind of work; what other helpers are employed; whether 
an inexperienced worker would be trained; wages; outings allowed, 
etc. To quote, "An expert will then draft from the particulars given 
a comprehensive advertisement. The Management do not feel that 
they can conscientiously accept payment for advertisements that have 
no prospect of success." There is a uniform charge of two shillings 
(fifty cents) for all advertisements. The \\Titer was told by house- 
holders that this help had delivered them from the inteUigence oflSce, 
whose methods seem to be as objectionable in English cities as they 
are •with us, and numerous letters published by the Daily Mail go to 
prove that the new plan is a great success. 

To increase its hold on the serving class and to insure that the 
paper is frequently read, the Daily Mail offers bonuses from time to 
time equal to a month's wages to all maids who answered an adver- 
tisement on a certain day some months previous and have kept the 
situation then obtained. This plan has all the charm of a lottery 
and the dates seem to be followed with great eagerness. 

Why should not the housekeeper bring this assured success in 
efficient advertising to the notice of the most enterprising newspaper 
of her city or village? 

The program for the second annual observance of Richards Day, 
or Home Economics Day, on December 3, 1913, was printed in the 
September Bulletin of the American Home Eco- 
Richards nomics Association, and a copy has been sent to the 

Day. heads of home economics departments in all schools, 

normal schools, and colleges. Any person who has 
not received a copy may have one on request. 

All schools are asked to arrange an observance, either on the day 
suggested or some other convenient day, with at least a talk or ad- 



458 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

dress in commemoration of the services of Mrs. Richards as founder 
of the home economics movement. Every school and college, it is 
hoped, will plan at this time or later during the year, a candy sale 
or other means of contributing to the Richards Memorial Fund. In 
many instances this has been found an easy method of providing a 
school contribution of from $io to $50 in amount. Let each of our 
thousand institutions take such action, those who were successful 
last year repeating their plans, and thus the growing Richards Memo- 
rial Fund will press on to complete success. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY FOR HOME ECONOMICS LITERATURE. 

I. Foods. 

Chemical Changes Produced in Cow's Milk by Pasteurization. Philip Rupp, 
U. S. Dept. Agr., Bur. Anim. Indus., Bui. i66. 

Scientific Standards for the Government Regulation of Foods. J. R. Murlin, 
Pop. Sci. Mo., Ixxxiii, 1913, no. 4, pp. 344-355. 

Diabetic Foods. J. P. Street and L. B. Mendel, Conn. Agr. Expt. Sta. Rpt., 1913. 
Parti. 

Diabetic Foods Offered for Sale in the U. S. J. P. Street, Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., 
Ix, 1913, pp. 2037-9. 

A New Method of Keeping Bread Fresh and Its Significance to the Night Work 
of the Bakers. J. R. Katz, Chetn. Abs., vii, 1913, no. 18, p. 3169. 

Ground Cloves. A study. A. McGiU, Inland Rev. Dept., Ottawa, Can., Bui. 252. 

(.\nalysis and suggested standards.) 

The Chemical Composition of Cooked Vegetable Foods. Part iii. Katherine 
J. Williams, J our. Indus, and Eng.Chem.,v, 1913, no. 8, pp. 653-656 {cL Jour. Amer. 
Chem. Soc, x.xvi, 1904, no. 3, and xxix,, 1907, no. 4.) 

The Properties of Watered Milk. E. W. Long and C. E. May, Jour. Indus, and 
Eng. Chem., v, 1913, no. 7, pp. 573-575- 

Some Industrial Uses of Sugar. Rolfe, Chem. News, cvii, 1913, p. 217. 

Some Points in the Making and Judging of Bread. Isabel Bevier, Univ. of III., 
X, no. 25, March, 1913. 

The Scientific Advancement of the Canning Industry. R. T. Mohan, Sci. Amer. 
Sup., Ixxvi, 1913, no. 1959, pp. 40-43, figs. 11. 

(Historical review and extended description of methods.) 

2. Nutrition. 

The Carbohydrate-Sparing Action of Alcohol. O. Toegel, E. Brezina and A. 
Durig, Chem. Abs.,vn, 1913, no. 14, p. 2413 (from Biochem. Zeilschr., 1, 1913, pp. 

296-345- 

Metabolism after Meat Feeding of Dogs in which Pancreatic External Secretion 
was Absent. F. G. Benedict and J. H. Pratt, Jour. Biol. Chem., xv, 1913, no. i, 

PP- 1-35- 

On Fat Absorption. II. Absorption of Fat-Hke Substances Other than Fats. 
W. R. Bloor, Jour. Biol. Chem., xv, 1913, no. i, pp. 105-117. 

The Chemistry of Gluconeogenesis. V. The R61e of Pyruvic Acid in the Inter- 
mediary Metabolism of .\lanine. A. S. Ringer, Jour. Biol. Chem., xv, 1913, no. r., 
pp. 145-152- 

The Biochemical Relation between Pyruvic Acid and Glucose. H. D. Dakin 
and N. W. Janney, Jour. Biol. Chem. , xv, 1913, no. i, pp. 177-180. 

459 



460 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

The Necessity of Certain Lipins in the Diet During Growth. E. V. McCollum 
and Marguerite Davis, Jour. Biol. Chem., xv, 1913, no. i, pp. 167-175. 

The Relative Physical Advantages of School Lunches in Elementary and Second- 
ary Schools. Ira S. Wile, Bui. Am. Acad. Med., xiv, 1913, no. 2, pp. 145-155. 

The Treatment of Diabetes ^MeUitus. EUiott P. Joslin, Boston Med. and Surg. 
Jour., clxix, 1913, no. 10, pp. 348-352. 

A Formula for the Determination of the Surface Area of Infants. John Rowland 
and Richard T. Dana, Am. Jour. Dis. Child., xvi, 1913, no. i, pp. 33-38. 

The Further Study of the Anatomy and Physiology of the Infant Stomach, Based 
on Serial Roentgenograms. Godfrey R. Pisek and Leon T. Le Wald, Am. Jour. 
Dis. Child., vi, 1913, no. 4, pp. 232-245. Illustrated. 

The Influence of Activity on the Metabolism of the Child. Schlossman and 
Murschhauser, Am. Jour. Dis. Child., vi, 1913, no. i, pp. 15-23. 

The WeU-fed Child. A. L. Benedict, Bui. Amer. Acad. Med., xiv, 1913, no. 3, 
pp. 230-236. (Feeding the School Child.) 

Food for Babies. M. A. Asserson, N. Y. Med. Jour., xcviii, 1913, no. 4, p. 182. 

On the Formation of Fat from Carbohydrates. Sergius Morgulis and Joseph H. 
Pratt, Amer. Jour. Physiol., xxxii, 1913, no. 3, pp. 200-211. 

The Gastric Secretion of Infants at Birth. Alfred D. Hess, Am. Jour. Dis. 
Child., vi, 1913, no. 4, pp. 264-276. 

The Influence of Fever upon the Elimination of Creatinine. V. C. Myers and 
J. O. Volovic, Jour. Biol. Chem., xiv, 1913, pp. 489-508. 

Studies on the Theory of Diabetes. I. Sarcolactic Acid in Diabetic Muscle. 
R. T. Woodyatt, Jour. Biol. Chem., xiv, 1913, pp. 441-451. 

On Glyopalase. H. D. Dakin and H. W. Dudley, Jour. Biol. Chem., xiv, 1913, 
pp. 423-431. 

Utilization of Ammonia in Metabolism. A. E. Taylor and A. I. Ringer, Jour. 
Biol. Chem., xiv, 1913, pp. 407-418. 

Dietary Studies at the Peoria State Hospital; The Commeal from the State 
Institutions; The Influence of Molds on Commeal, Wussoiv and Grindley Report 
Illinois Pellagra Commission, Springfield, III., State Repl., 191 2. 

Studies on Water Drinking. XIV. The Digestive Efl&ciency of Saliva as In- 
creased by Dilution with Water. O. Bergeim and P. B. Hawk, Jour. Amer. Chem. 
Soc, XXXV, 1913, no. 4, pp. 461-476. 

What to Eat. Mary Hinman Abel, La FoUette's Weekly, v, 1913, no. 35. 
Reprinted from Ladies' World. 

On Age and Metabolism and on the Significance of the Excretion of Creatine. 
R. A. Krause, Quart. Jour. Expt. Med., vii, 1913, no. i, pp. 87-101. 

The Comparative Value of Various Sugars in the Feeding of Infants. Chas. 
C. Haskell, Arch. Ped., xxx, 1913, no. 8, pp. 572-588. 

The Feeding and Medical Treatment of School Children. A. M. Carr-Saunders, 
Quart. Jour. Roy. Econ. Soc, xxiii, 1913, no. 91, pp. 355-366. 

Enzymes as Synthetic Agents in Carbohydrate Metabolism. J. H. Priestly, 
Sci. Prog., viii, 1913, no. 29, pp. 113-121. 

Beri-beri and White Flour Bread. H. Snyder, Northwest Miller, xcv, 1913, no. 
lOi PP- 565, 566, figs. 2. (A defense of white flour.) 

Food and Diet, I and II. Alice Ravenhill, Brit. Columbia Dept. Agr., Buls. 46, 
1912, pp. 31, figs. 3; 47, 1913, pp. 29, figs. 5. 



1913] Bibliography of Current Literature 461 

3. Hygiene and Sanitation. 

New Methods of Ventilation. James Keith, Lancet, xii, 1913, no. 2, Sept. 20, 
pp. 8S0-885. Illustrated. 

School Sanitation. L. R. H. Gantt, So. Carolina Med. Assn. Jour., May 29, 1913. 

Teaching of First Aid in Schools. Charles A. Kinch, Bui. Am. Acad. Med., xiv, 
1913, no. 3, pp. 237-239. 

What Can be Done to Prevent Milk Poisoning. William N. Bradley, Arch. Ped., 
XXX, 1913, no. 7, pp. 519-529. 

The Question of Food-poisoning Bacteria. G. Mayer, Jour. State Med., xxi, 
1913, pp. 98-102. 

The Financial Stimulus in City Milk Production. H. A. Harding and J. D. 
Brew, N. Y. Agr. Expt. Sta., Bui. 363, April, 1913. 

The Control of Bulk Milk in Stores. E. Kelley, U. S. Dept. Agr., Bur. Anim. 
Indus., 2Sth Ann.' Rept., 1913, p. 237. 

Open Air Schools for the Prevention and Cure of Tuberculosis Among Children. 
B. S. Warren, U. S. Fub. Health Bui., ?to. 58. 

Tuberculosis and the Schools. Arthur Tracy Cabot, Bui. Mass. Bd. of Health, 
vii, 12, Dec. 1912. Reprinted from the Atlantic Monthly, November 1912. 

The Bacteriology of Eggs and Egg Products with Special Reference to Bacillus 
coli. O. Maurer, Kansas State Bui., 180, pp. 333-344. 

The Croton Bug (Ectobis Germanica) as a Factor in Bacterial Dissemination. 
W. B. Harms and Yargon Nelson, Amer. Jour. Pub. Health, iii, 1913, no. 9, pp. 
929-935. 

WTiat State Control Over Streams Has Done in Pennsylvania in Seven Years. 
Samuel Dixon, Amer. Jour. Pub. Health, iii, 1913, no. 7, pp. 680-686. 

Relation of Water to Chronic Intestinal Tract Infection. N. S. Hill and L. R. 
WTiitcomb, Amer. Jour. Pub. Health, iii, 1913, no. 9, pp. 915-928. 

Farm Water Supplies. S. C. Prescott, Amer. Jour. Pub. Health, iii, 1913, no. 9, 
pp. 892-902. 

Foods and Their Relation to Public Health. P. B. Tustin, Dietetic and Hygienic 
Gazette, xxix, 1913, no. 9, pp. 399-400. 

Burning Rubbish in a City Furnace. Independent, Ixxv, 1913, no. 3382, pp, 
753-754- 

4. Textiles and Clothing. 

Pure Fabrics as WeU as Pure Foods. M. I. McDonald, Housewives^ League 
Mag., February 1913, pp. 7-9. 

Improved Process of Silk Weighting. Posselt's Textile Jour., xiii, 1913, p. 52. 

The Manufacture of Elastic Bands. Samuel Brown, Textile World Rec, xlv, 
1913, no. 5, pp. 90-93. 

Distinguishing Linen and Cotton in the Same Fabric. Robert Dantzer, trans, 
from French, Textile World Rec, xlv, 1913, no. 4, pp. 76-79. 

What a Wool-Sorter Most Know. Posselt's Textile Jour., xii, 1913, pp. 163-164. 

Distinguishing Kapok from Cotton. Textile World Rec, xlv, 1913, no. 5, pp. 
109-110. 

Comparative Fastness of Dyeing Wool and Cotton. Textile World Rec, Ixv, 1913, 
no. 5, pp. 107-108. 



462 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

Materials Used in Sizing. Starches and other Agglutinants. W. F. A. Ermen, 
M.A., Posselt's Textile Jour., January, 1913, pp. 8-^, February, 1913, 36-37, March, 
1913, April, 1913, 92-94. 

Fabric Analysis. Ascertaining Raw Materials in the Construction of Fabrics. 
Posselt's Textile Jour., January, 1912, x, pp. 7-8; February, 1912, x, 33-34; March, 

1912, X, 60-61. 

Modem Shoe Polishes and Dressings. J. T. Donald, Jour. Sac. Ghent. Indus., 
xxxii, 1913, pp. 459-460. 

The Nature and Structure of Cochineal. Henry Kraemer, Amer. Jour. Pharm., 
Ixxxv, 1913, pp. 344-363- 

5. Education and Social Work. 

Eugenics: With Special Reference to Intellect and Character. Edward L. 
Thomdike, Pop. Set- Mo., Ixxxiii, 1913, 2, pp 125-139. 

Practical Work in Science Teaching. Dexter S. Kimball, Science N. S., xxxviii, 

1913, no. 970, pp. 144-149- 

Home Economics at the New York State College of Agriculture. Martha Van 
Rensselaer, Cornell Reading Courses, ii, 37, April, 1913. 

A School that Teaches How to Live. Booker T. Washington, The Tuskegee 
Student, xxv, 1913, no. 14, p. i. 

The Higher Education for Cooks. Wm. M. Roberts, The Hotel Monthly, xxi, 
1913, no. 244, pp. 32-34. 

Education for Motherhood. Ellen Key, Atlantic Monthly, cxii, 1913, nos. i 
and 2. 

Books for Farmers and Fanners Wives. H. O. Severance, Univ. Mo. Bui., Libr., 
Ser., I, 1912, no. 4, pp. 24. (Suggests titles on home economics, animal husbandry, 
dairy husbandry, rural economics and sociology, and other farm topics.) 

Inquiry into the cost of living in Australia. G. H. Knibbs, Ojj. Yearbook Aust., 
V, 1912, pp. 1167-1184. 

Industrial Education in the Philippine Islands. Frank R. White., Vocational Ed., 
ii, 1913, no. 4, pp. ; 5, pp. 378-401. 

The New Education. Arthur D. Dean, Craftsman, xxiv, 1913, no. 5, pp. 463- 
471. 

Cost of Living in the United Kingdom. Labor Gazette of the British Board of 
Trade, xxi, 1913, no. 8, pp. 282-283. 

High Food Prices. Outlook, cv, 1913, no. 4, pp. 149-150. 

United States Inspected and Passed. Samuel H. Adams, Survey, xxx, 1913, no. 
23, PP- 695-698. 

Continued Rise in Living Expenses. J. L. Griffiths, Daily Cons, and Trade 
Rpts., [U. S.], 16, 1913, no. 201, pp. 1190-1191. 

Working-class Households in Reading. A. L. Bowley, Jour. Roy. Statis. Soc, n. 
ser., Ixxvi, 1913, no. 7, pp. 672-701, fig. i. 

Prices and Consumption of Food in Holland. F. W. Mahin, Daily Cons, and 
Trade Rpts. [U. S.], xvi, 1913, no. 201, p. 1191. (Data on bread.) 

Cost of Living in England. A. E. Ingram and W. C. Hamm, Daily Cons, and 
Trade Rpts. [U. S.], xvi, 1913, no. 209, pp. 1373-1375. 

(Data on rents, food, fuel, and clothing in two large cities.) 



1913] Bibliography of Current Literature 463 

Prices of Principal Commodities [m. Peru]. L. G. Dreyfus, Jr., Daily Cons, and 
Trade Rpts. [U. S.] xvi, 1913, 154, pp. 52-53. 

The .\rt of Right Living. Alice Ravenhill, Brit. Columbia Dept. Agr. Bui. 1, 1913, 
pp. 23, figs. 7. 

Approved Methods for Home Laimdering. Mary B. Vail, Hampton Leaflets, 6, 
1913, no. II, pp. 40, pis. 5. 

Inquiry into the Cost of Living in Australia. G. H. Knibbs, Off. Yearbook 
Aust., 5, 1912, pp. 1167-1184. (Data collected regarding household expenditures 
and similar topics are reported and discussed with reference to the cost of lisang.) 

Books for Farmers and Farmers' Wives. H. O. Severance, Univ. Mo. Bui., 
Libr. Ser., 1, 1912, no. 4, pp. 24. (This bibliography suggests titleson home eco- 
nomics, animal husbandry, dairy husbandrj', rural economics and sociology, and 
other farm topics.) 

Open Air Schools for the Prevention and Cure of Tuberculosis Among Children. 
B. S. Warren, U. S. Pub. Health Bui., no. 58. 

6. Miscellaneous. 

Investigations of the Efficiency of Soaps and Washing Materials. E. Luksch, 
Chem. Abs. vii, 1913, no. 14, p. 2490, (from Seifensieder Ztg. xl, 1913, pp. 413- 
414; 444-445. 

Microscopic Structure of Coal and its Constituents. J. Lomax, Jour. Gas Light- 
ing, cxxi, 1913, p. 601; Jour. Soc. Chem. Indus., xxxii, 1913, p. 276. 

Concealing the Radiator, Ludwig Deubner, House and Garden, October, 19 13, 
pp. 213-215; (What they do in Germany to render the radiator an attractive piece 
of furniture). 

The Farmhouse. Helen Brinkard Yoxmg, Cornell Reading Courses, ii, 39, May, 

1913- 
A Household Ice Making Machine that uses Gas. Gas Age, xxxii, 1913, pp. 74- 

75- 

Rooms in Paper. Problems in Construction and Design, The Bedroom, Nama 
A. Lathe and Esther Szold, Manual Training Mag., 15, 1913, i, pp. 31-43- 

Concerning the Easy Chair. James Thomson, Craftsman, xxiv, 1913, no. 5, pp. 
544-546, (Principles of construction, illustrated). 

Inexpensive Home-made Milk Refrigerator. A. F. Hess, Jour. Outdoor Life, 
July, 1913. 

The Use of Brains in Housework. Anne L. Wing, Home Progress, iii, 1913, no. 
3, pp. 79-83. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE. 

Any book or periodical mentioned in this department may be obtained through 
the Journal of Home Economics at the price listed. 

Principles of Educational Practice. By P. Klapper, Instructor of Education, 
College of the City of New York. New York: D. Apple ton and Company, 
pp. 485. $1.75. By mail of the Journal, $1.89. 

A treatise on education whose distinctive feature is the adaptation of methods 
of teaching and of school administration to modem social conditions. According to 
the author, any system of education which makes "the child the center of gravity" 
must be in unstable equilibrium and subject to continual change. He finds proof 
that the child, rather than the teacher or the curriculum is today the chief object 
of concern in the fact that " we welcome any plan to form special classes according 
to ability, gifts, or handicaps of the children" and in the tendency to "reorganize 
the seventh and eighth grades so as to prepare those children, who leave school, for 
their specialties in business or industry and the others, who continue the academic 
studies, for their work in the high school." 

Teachers of home economics will find particularly interesting the chapters on 
industrial training and social adjustment. Manual or vocational education is con- 
sidered as a means of securing (i) psychological development, (2) sociological 
adjustment, (3) economic betterment, (4) educational efficiency, and (5) ethical 
gains. Under the first heading, the author deprecates the imdue emphasis placed 
in some schools on technique, "the abstract principle rather than the concrete re- 
sult." "A sewing syllabus should not introduce the subject with exercises in ele- 
mentary stiches. When a child is most anxious to achieve a result it should not 
be required to sew together bits of cloth in order to learn the kinds of stitches and 

the elementary technique Let the little girl begin sewing by making 

something she needs, then teach the necessary stiches in the course of actual cre- 
ation." 

Evidence that training in the practical arts is to be a means of sociological ad- 
justment is found in the reorganization (above referred to) of the work of the seventh 
and eighth grades to make it meet more closely the needs of the 95 per cent of pub- 
lic school pupils who do not reach the high schools. "What a blessing education 
would be if only 50 per cent of these two years were devoted to elusive 'culture' 
and the rest of the time to acquiring a mastery of the elements of millinery, dress- 
making, household economy, stenography and typewriting, bookkeeping, or any 
one of a host of occupations that will enable a child to find its niche in the indus- 
trial world in which it must live." 

The economic justification for industrial training on the ground that "respect 
for machine products, machine pottery, machine glassware, machine furniture, is 
continually growing less" and that there is consequently an increasing demand for 
skilled workers will be questioned on the ground of fact and also of relevancy. The 
existence of occupations which call for no skill and demand no preparatory training 

464 



1913] Books and Literature 465 

is recognized as a social misfortune, but it is a question whether improvement in 
this respect is coming, or could come, through a return to handicraft. What is 
most needed is a larger number of opportunities for work which call for and develop 
all the powers of the worker and it is unfortunate to overlook the possibility 
that these opportunities may come through improvement in factory methods and 
as the result of a more intelligent use of machinery. 

Other subjects treated are Self-Activity and Mental Development; Instincts; 
Imitation and Emulation; The Doctrine of Interest and Effort; Perception; Ap- 
perception; The Thought Processes of Conception, Judgment and Reason; For- 
mal Discipline; and the Education of the Emotions. Attention is given also to 
the use of school houses for social centers, eugenics, and the problems of adoles- 
cence. The Settlement Movement is credited with having made "a vital con- 
tribution to the progress of education." 

Five Books on Sex Hygiene. By Dr. E. B. Lowry. Chicago: Forbes and 
Company. 
Herself. Pp. 221. $1 By mail of the Journal, $1.10. 
Himself. By E. B. Lowry and R. J. Lambert. Pp. 216. $1. By mail of 

the Journal. $1.10. 
False Modesty. Pp. no. $0.50. By mail of the Journal, $0.55. 
Truths. S0.50. By mail of the Journal, $0.55. 
Confidences. $0.50. By mail of the Journal, $0.55. 

"False Modesty" is an earnest and forceful plea for the general dissemination of 
information upon various subjects and details often grouped together as sex hy- 
giene; and for intelligent community action regarding some of them. That 
mothers should teach their daughters, and fathers their sons, the meaning of the 
reproductive structures and their hygiene, the author agrees, in common with 
most other teachers. Yet the community has much to do, not only in the city, 
where the problem of providing for the social life of homeless youth is so great a 
one, but also in country districts, where sequestration often makes wrong-doing 
easy. Woman's inhumanity to her fallen sister is earnestly deplored. Teaching 
the science of motherhood at some appropriate point in the girl's formal educa- 
tion is recommended; such details as the following being suggested: Care of the 
reproductive organs and effects of irregular habits, improper diet and clothing 
upon them; care of children and adolescents; and school hygiene especially as re- 
lated to the girl's health. 

In "Confidences", a book written for the little girl, the point of departure is the 
assumption that any normal girl will look forward to marriage and the possession 
of healthy children of her own. The mysteries of reproduction are gradually 
unfolded to her in a series of stories concerning flower babies (explaining cross 
fertilization), bird babies, mother's baby (explaining names and functions of 
reproductive organs and menstruation). Practical lessons of personal hygiene are 
enforced which will lead to carefully "building the nest" (development of repro- 
ductive organs), and concluded with the wise advice to "go to mother with all 
questions, for she will always tell you anything you want to know." 

"Truths" is similarly written for the young lad. The stories are of flower pollen, 
fish milt, fertilization of the egg of the frog, other animals, and the human species; 
man's responsibility for and chivalry towards women and girls is urged because 



466 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

they are the future mothers; warnings are given against the venders of fake advice 
and patent medicines and against abuse of the reproductive organs because of the 
impairment of the vigor of manhood wliich may result and the dangers which 
may threaten the future home. 

"Herself" is a manual of sex hygiene for women. It begins with an account of the 
anatomy and physiology of the female reproductive organs more simply written 
than those to be found in most text books. Menstruation, diseases of the repro- 
ductive organs (including the "black plague"), self abase, embryology, inheritance 
of disease or that due to maternal impressions, the various causes of "race suicide," 
the law which prohibits a physician from giving information as to the prevention 
of pregnancy, other practical questions of eugenics, the divorce question, "white 
slavery," and the instruction of children upon sex matters, are some of the topics 
which are most ably discussed. 

"Himself" deals with many of the same and similar topics, and is written for men. 
Each of these books is characterized by a broad-minded, sane point of view, and 
by that rare but priceless quality in the reformer — moderation. 

The Protein Element in Nutrition. By D. McCay. London: E. Arnold. 
1912. Pp. XV + 216. pis. 8. IDS. 6d. 

This volvune which is one of the International Medical Monographs, presents 
an exhaustive summary of the author's ver>' extended investigations and the work 
of others bearing upon the importance of protein in the diet. The material is dis- 
cussed with reference to low protein theories with which the author does not agree. 

The following chapter headings show the scope of the work: The food of man- 
kind, tropical food materials and their digestibility, the protein metabolism of 
mankind, the protein requirements of mankind, the merits and demerits of dietaries 
poor in protein, the effects of a low protein dietary in the Tropics, and the effects 
of the level of protein metabolism on the physique and general efficiency of different 
tropical tribes and races. 

Some of the author's extensive investigations with native races in India have 
been published in full during the last five years. The results of later work on the 
effects of Bengal food materials on pigeons are briefly summarized in the present 
voliune. The author concludes that none of the Bengal foodstuffs caused poly- 
neuritis, neither the dais used in Bengal nor the Indian or country rice. "It is 
evident therefore, that the absence of the beri-beri vitamin in their dietary is not 
the explanation of the poor physique of the Bengalis." 

With reference to his purpose and conclusions, the author states that in the 
present volume he has made use "of the observations and investigations of a great 
many of the more important recent publications on the subject, and has attempted 
to show that the weight of evidence is entirely against the great reduction of the 
protein content and caloric value of the dietaries of mankind so strongly advocated. 

"Recent investigations by different research workers have shown that it is pos- 
sible to reduce very considerably the quantity of protein necessary to maintain 
an animal in nitrogenous equilibrium, when the particular nitrogenous compounds 
required by that animal are given only in the food. In fact, at the present time, 
no one denies the feasibility of maintaining either man or animals in a condition 
of nitrogenous equilibrium on quantities of protein very much below the standards 
set up by the old masters in the science of nutrition. 



1913] Books arid Literature 467 

"If we knew exactly how much and what particular nitrogen compounds the 
body requries in each specific state of nutrition, it is rational to expect that it would 
be possible to maintain the body in health, vigor, and efficiency on quantities of 
protein very much less than those hitherto considered necessary; but, as we do not 
know what form of nitrogen combination nor how much of any particular unit is 
requried in the different states of bodily nutrition, it is surely only rational that, 
in order to insure a sufficiency of those elements absolutely essential, a liberal stan- 
dard of dietary should be recommended. . . . 

"It seems, therefore, only reasonable to lay down such a standard of protein in 
the feeding of man as will at least give to the body the opportunity of obtaining 
the particular combinations it requires in any given state of nutrition. 

"This deduction is fully borne out by a careful consideration of the information 
available from dietary studies carried out in many different countries, and particu- 
larly by the investigations made in India to determine the effects of different de- 
grees of protein interchange on several tribes and races living imder exactly the 
same conditions, except as regards diet. An absolutely dispassionate survey of 
the physical development and general capabilities of the races and people of India 
points undoubtedly to the conclusion that, other factors being eliminated, those 
who obtain a liberal supply of absorbable protein in their daily food are superior 
in every respect to those whose dietaries exhibit any marked degree of lowering 
of the average protein standard. 

"The general conclusion arrived at, from a broad consideration of all the facts 
available in the present state of our knowledge, is that the views held by the older 
writers on nutrition are soimder and more in accord with the findings of careful sci- 
entific study than are those of the newer school." 

Photographs of Indian natives who are accustomed to low and abundant pro- 
tein rations, elucidate the text; and an index is provided. 

The New Hostess of To-day. By Linda Hull Lamed, with illustrations by 
Mary Cowles Clark. New York: Charles Scribner's Sons, 1913 Pp. xxiii-f- 
428. $1.50. By mail of the Journal, $1.62. 

This book is an old and valued friend, the companion of some of our lighter 
moments in the past returned to us in fresh attire. Many of us have no moments 
so light as some of those for which the book is intended, when Beef Poeled with 
Mirepoix or Biscuit Glace Diplomale is served but we are glad that such moments 
come to others and that when they arrive there is available so well-planned, so well- 
written a book as the New Hostess of To-day, so presentable in appearance and 
so explicit in its directions. Like its predecessor, The Hostess of To-day, the book 
is chiefly helpful for those who entertain. 

Modern Theories of Diet and Their Bearing upon Practical Dietetics. 
By A. Br>'ce. London: E. Arnold, 191 2. Pp. xv -H 368. $1.82. 

On the basis of personal observation and study the author discusses the theory 
and practice of vegetarianism, low-protein dietaries, and purin-free or uric-acid-free 
dietaries; and dietetic theories associated with mineral salts, water, raw food, cur- 
dled milk, fasting, and other systems. General questions of metabolism are also 
discussed. 



468 TJie Journal of Home Economics [December 

Some statements from the concluding chapter — the practice of moderation — 
follow: A consideration of the argmnents advanced for and against the dietetic 
systems considered "wiU suffice to reveal the only principle which is of universal 
application in the selection of a diet. It is obvious to the scientific mind, at the 
very outset, that there can be absolutely no justification for the claims made by 
each set of propagandists for the wholesale adoption of their tenets and practice, 
because the personal factor which is of such vital importance in all human affairs 
is overwhelmingly so in the question of diet. . . . 

"It has been held that popidar taste is an infallible indicator of the best and most 
suitable nutritive items in a nation's bill of fare, and doubtless there is a period 
in the history of every country, before it has emerged from its primary isolation 
and come into contact with other nations, when this may be true. In such circum- 
stances the selection of food is dictated less by choice than by necessity, and as the 
resources of most countries are strictly limited — and this remark applies with 
especial force to the most robust and vigorous peoples living in temperate climates — 
the choice is by no means boundless. It has been claimed that racial features have 
thus been molded, and that the character of a people owes its origin in great meas- 
ure to its food. But, there is absolutely no authority for the statement that the 

character of a man is influenced by what he eats Diet does not 

alter the character of personality, but in large measure the personality decides the 
most suitable diet." 

As the author notes, the one thing upon which the believers in low-protein diet, 
in a flesh-free diet, and in a purin-free diet agree "is the diminished amount of food, 
and so the only conception which appears to unite them is the fundamental doc- 
trine of moderation, which has not only been taught from time immemorial, but 
is actually practised by all sensible men at the present time." 

The author states that he does not doubt "that most of the systems detailed 
may be made to answer the nutritive and dietetic requirements of every day life 
for individual cases, and, as has been proved by experience, some of them may even 
be suitable for considerable sections of people." He does not think, however, 
"that any one of them has succeeded in demonstrating its rights to the proud posi- 
tion of the universal food of mankind in the temperate zone." He is personally 
inclined "to favor the claims of the low-protein systems as on the whole the most 
satisfactory sytem of the dietetic problem, but probably more reflective people will 
acquiesce in the proposition that the healthy man can live on any system of diet 
by attention to moderation, regularity, and variety, but the unhealthy man must 
look to the dietetic expert to guide him in the selection of the best system or kinds 
of food to suit his case." 

The volume contains a bibliography and ah index. 

Food in Health and Disease. By N. S. Davis. Philadelphia: P. Blakiston's 
Son & Co., 1912. 2. ed., pp.xii -|- 449. figs.5. $3.50. 

In this volume, which is designed as a practical book on dietetics, the author 
discusses the general principles of diet in health and disease and the general ques- 
tion of feeding the sick and diet in different diseases. 

It is stated that in preparing the second edition much of the material has been 
re-written and additions have been made to almost every subject discussed. 



1 9 13] Books atid Literature 469 

Beverages, Past and Present. By E. R. Emerson. New York and London: 
G. P. Putnam's Sons. igoS. Vols, i, pp. vi -f- 563; 2, pp. iv + 514. $5.00 

•\s noted in the subtitle, these volimies present an historical sketch of the pro- 
duction of beverages and a study of the customs connected with their use. 
The subject matter is arranged geographically. 

The Treasure Cookery Book. By M. M. Mitchell. London, New York, 
Bombay, and Calcutta: Longmans, Green & Co. 1913. Pp. x + 516. $1.35 net. 

This is a well-written, substantial English cook book by the instructress of 
cookery in the Polytechnic, London. The writer says that it has been "written 
especially for those who require good, wholesome, middle-class fare as economical 
as is consistent with good results. More elaborate dishes suitable for special 
occasion are included, while those who have of necessity to live on smaU incomes 
will be able to select dishes to suit their means." Besides a very large number of 
recipes, it contains rather more material than the average cook book on the sub- 
jects of food, marketing, simple meals, household utensils, and housekeeping. In 
this country it will be especially welcomed by those who wish information about 
those foods and methods of cooking which are typically English. 

Lessons in Cooking (Theoretical and Practical) for the Sicl^ and Con- 
valescent. Dept. Int., Govt. Hospital for the Insane. Washington, D. C: 
Govt. Printing Office. 1913. Pp. 32. Price 5 cents. 

The principles of nutrition are briefly discussed and lessons given which include 
recipes and directions for preparing a considerable number of invalid dishes. The 
bulletin was prepared for the use of the cooking class of the Nurses' Training School 
at the Government Hospital for the Insane, Washington, D. C. 

The Manufacture of Preserved Foods and Sweetmeats. By A. Hausner. 
Trans, by .\. Morris and H. Robson. London: Scott Greenwood and Son. 1912. 
2. Eng. ed. Pp. viii -|- 238 -|- 24, figs. 28. $1.82. 

This is the second English edition of this work and the author states that it has 
been thoroughly revised. 

A Brief Course in Domestic Science. By Catharine A. Mulligan. University 
of Tennessee. Nashville: J. W. Brister. 1913. Pp. 54- 

This bulletin, which was prepared under Professor Mulligan's direction, con- 
tains practical lessons of value to teachers in village and rural schools. It aims 
"to impress the teachers with the possibilities through domestic science, of raising 
the standard of the individual pupil, the home, the school, and the community; 
and of increasing the health, happiness, and prosperity of the home, the school, and 
the community." 

The course is given in three parts. The first part includes lessons in the study 
of various foods; in the planning and preparations of school lunches and school 
socials; and in serving a meal. The second part is made up of a series of outlines 
for talks on sewing, laundering, textiles, soil, sanitation, etc. The third part 
contains recipes for everything studied in the first part. 



470 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

Home Economics: A Bibliography for High Schools. State College, PuUman, 

Washington. 1913. Pp. 23. 

This pamphlet was prepared by the Department of Home Economics of the State 
College of Washington. The fact that home economics is such a new subject makes 
it impossible to arrange a imiform study by the use of text-books. The need of some 
degree of "uniformity of content and instruction," in the schools of the state of 
Washington, led to the arrangement of this bibliography. 

The classification is as follows: Food and Nutrition, Textiles, Clothing, and 
House Furnishing, Sanitation, Home management. Two additional lists include 
supplementary reading and Government Publications. Following the lists, is an 
outline for a high school course in home economics. 

The state superintendent of public instruction says, "The bibliography of Home 
Economics, prepared by the Department of Home Economics of the State Col- 
lege of Washington for the use of high schools of the state, will be of definite serv- 
ice in unifying the instruction in this new field. I am glad to recommend it to 
superintendents, to principals, and to teachers of the subject." 

Composition of Food Materials, By C. F. Langworthy. U. S. Dept. Agr., 

Office Expt. Stas. Charts 15 (21 x 27 in.), revised. Washington: Govt. 

Printing Office. $1 per set. 

The first edition of the food and diet charts prepared by the Department of 
Agriculture having been entirely exhausted, a new edition has been prepared. 
Advantage has been taken of this opportunity to make a few minor corrections and 
to substitute new data for the composition of grape juice based upon more recent 
analyses of American products. The factors which have been proposed from time 
to time for calculating fuel values have varied somewhat, modifications having 
been suggested as investigations have progressed. The figures for fuel values per 
pound, included in the charts originally, were gathered from a variety of sources. 
For the sake of imiformity they have all been recalculated in the new edition, using 
the factors, 4 calories per gram for protein and for carbohydrates and 9 calories 
per gram for fat, and 454 grams per pound, the result in every case being expressed 
to the nearest five. It should be borne in mind that the values are not necessarily 
more accurate than those originally included, since the differences are all within 
the possible limits of error inseparable from the use of any such factors. 

The titles of the charts are as follows: Chart I, Milk and Milk Products; Chart 
II, Eggs and Cheese; Chart III, Meat — Fresh and Cured; Chart IV, Fish, Fish 
Products and Oysters; Chart V, Butter, and other Fat- Yielding Foods; Chart VI, 
Cereal Grains; Chart VII, Bread and Other Cereal Foods; Chart VIII, Sugar and 
Similar Foods; Chart IX, Roots and Succulent Vegetables; Chart X, Legumes and 
Com; Chart XI, Fresh and Dried Fruit; Chart XII, Fruit and Fruit Products; 
Chart XIII, Nuts and Nut Products; Chart XIV, Composition, Functions, and 
Uses of Food; and Chart XV, Dietary Standards. 

Thirteen of the charts, printed in color, show graphically the composition of 
common food materials, while the remaining two contain dietary standards and 
tabular data regarding the functions and use of food. 

The new edition was issued at the request of the Superintendent of Documents 
and the charts must be obtained by purchase through this official, as the entire 
edition was turned over to him, the Department of Agriculture receiving none for 
distribution. 



1913I Books and Literature 471 

The Story of a Loaf of Bread. By T. B. Wood. New York: G. P. Putnam's 
Sons, 1913, pp. vi + 140, figs. 17. $0.40; leather, Sr. By mail of the 
Journal, $0.45 or $1.05. 

Wheat growing and marketing, milling, baking, the composition of bread, the 
relative value of difiFerent kinds of bread, and similar topics are discussed in this 
popular summary which is written in a way to make it readily understood by young 
students. 

Recipes for the Preparation of the Dasheen. By R. A. Young, U. S. Dept. 
Agr., Bur. Plant Indus. Circ. 127, pp. 34-36. 

Recipes are given for cooking dasheen in a variety of ways. 

As the author points out, this vegetable, which tastes somewhat like a potato, 
resembles it in composition and can be used in similar ways, is a staple article 
of food for millions of people in tropical and subtropical countries. In general 
it is used in the different ways in which the white potato is used. It may also be 
candied like the sweet potato. The flesh of the conns and large tubers is fre- 
quently somewhat gray or violet when cooked, but this does not affect the flavor. 

"When uncooked dasheens are being scraped or pared they should be handled 
in water to which a teaspoonful of sal soda to the quart has been added, in order 
to prevent irritation to the hands." 

Illinois Fanners' Institute, Department of Household Science. Edited by 
Mrs. H. A. McKeene, 111. Farmers' Inst., Dept. Household Sci. Year 
Book 1912. pp. 252, figs. 27. 

In addition to the proceedings, reports, and similar data, the volume contains a 
number of addresses and miscellaneous papers, including among others, Educa- 
ting girls for the Home, by Villa M. Sprague; Household Economics, by Mrs. 
A. P. Norton; Household Appliances and Conveniences, by Mrs. L. M. Cutting; 
A Balanced Ration, by Mrs. E. F. Ford; The Social Eflaciency of the Home, by 
Bertha Miller; How School Work Can be More Closely Related to Home Needs, 
by Miriam Besley; and Training the Girl to Help in the Home, by W. .\. McKeever. 

A number of menu suggestions are presented, and a study of food values, pub- 
lished by the Illinois State Food Commission, is reprinted. 

The Nutrition Coefficient of Antwerp School Children. By M. C. Schuyten 
Paedol. Jaarboek. 8, 1912-13, pp. 13: Bui. Sec. Chim. Belg., 26, 1912. No. 
II, pp. 503, 504., Abs. Expt. Sta. Record, 29, 1913, No. 4, p. 364. 

The author considers that Oppenheimer's formula for determining the nutri- 
tion coefficient is theoretically correct and that it gives a good idea of the general 
condition of nutrition. 

Nutrition depends upon the kind of food ingested and the degree of assimilation. 
The author studied the effect of attendance at school on this coefficient, with chil- 
dren 3 to 15 years of age, and concluded that the coefficient decreased until the 
age of 7 years and then became either irregular or stationary. 

The Composition of Dififerent Varieties of Red Peppers. By L. M. Tolman 
and L. C. Mitchell, U. S. Dept. Agr., Bur. Chem. Bui. 163, pp. 32. 



472 The Jonrnal of Home Economics [December 

So little data has been readily accessible regarding difEerent kinds of red peppers 
that this bulletin is very timely. 

The investigations reported were imdertaken to determine the normal com- 
position of the best known commercial varieties of red peppers in order to ascer- 
tain the characteristic properties of each part and thus secure information which 
would lead to the detection of the presence of abnormal amounts of seeds and stems. 

The study embraces nearly all of the commercial varieties of red pepper, includ- 
ing the African and the Japanese cayenne or chillies, the Hungarian paprika, and 
the Spanish pimenton, or pimiento. 

Cayenne or chilli is a small fruited pepper, a variety of Capsicum frulescens, in- 
digenous to tropical America, but now grown or cultivated in nearly all tropical or 
subtropical countries. This pepper is characterized by the small size of the pods 
and their extreme pungency. The leading commercial varieties for 191 1, accord- 
ing to the authors, were the African and the Japanese. 

Paprika, according to the authors, "Is a large fruited pepper, grown in Hungary, 
a variety of Capsicum annuum, a species of Capsicum, which is a genus of the family 
Solanaceae. When powdered, it has a deep red color and a sweetish, mildly 
pungent flavor. Its origin is somewhat obscure, but it apparently originated in 
America, whence it can be traced from Spain, through Greece and Turkey, to Hun- 
gary. It has been variously designated as Turkish pepper or paprika, Hungarian 
pepper or paprika, or garden pepper." 

With reference to the proper terminology, the authors note that pimenton, or 
pimiento, is the accurate name for the large fruited pepper, a variety of Capsicum 
annuum, grown in Spain. The succulent pericarp of it is much used for stuffing 
olives and for other purposes, while the dried pod is ground as a spice. " 'Pimenton' 
should not be confused with 'pimento' or 'pimenta,' which is applied to Jamaica 
pepper or allspice. 'Pimenton' is the definite term used to designate the Spanish 
product, when ground." The analytical data reported show that it is not practical 
to have a single standard applicable to all sorts. Each sample should be judged 
by comparison with known types. 

Graham Flour — A Study of the Physical and Chemical Dififerences between 

Graham Flour and Imitation Graham Flours. By J. A. Le Clerc and B. 

R. Jacobs. U. S. Dept. Agr., Bur. Chem. Bui. 164, pp. 57. 

Results based on the e.xamination of many samples of such flours found on the 
market and in the miUs, as well as of samples prepared in the laboratory of the 
Bureau of Chemistry, are reported concerning the physical and chemical differences 
between graham flour and imitation graham flours. 

The report which contains a large amount of valuable data is summarized as 
follows : 

"Although a large percentage of the so-caUed graham flour on the market is made 
by mixing inferior grades of flour with bran, there are a great many millers who 
still make graham flour in the original way, namely, by grinding either on stones or 
on rolls the whole kernel of wheat without bolting. 

"True graham flour always shows relatively larger amounts of intermediate 
products, such as coarse and fine middlings of good grade, while imitation graham 
generally contains but small amounts of these same products and when these are 
present in large quantities they are of inferior grade. True graham contains a 



1913] Books and Literature 473 

larger amount of combined bran and shorts, of combined coarse and fine middlings, 
and a smaller amount of flour passing through the ioq sieve, than does imitation 
graham. The ash, fibre, and pentosans are present in larger amount in true than 
in imitation graham. The middlings of the true graham are of a higher character 
than those of imitation graham. This refers to both coarse and fine middlings. 
The bran of imitation graham is very often clean and free from adhering endosperm, 
while the bran of true graham usually contains a relatively large quantity of such 
endosperm. This is more or less true also of the shorts. 

"One does not depend entirely upon the quantity of these intermediate prod- 
ucts to determine whether or not a flour is genuine, but one must always deter- 
mine their quality as well and relation to each other in appearance and composi- 
tion, so that it is necessary to make a microscopic examination of the products of 
separation besides the chemical analysis." 

It was not difficult to distinguish the imitation from the genuine graham in the 
83 samples examined. 

Definitions of milling and chemical terms used in the bulletin are given. 

Microbiology for Agricultural and Domestic Science Students. Edited by 
C. E. Marshall. Philadelphia: P. Blackiston's Son and Company. Pp. 
xxi -(- 724. $2.50. By mail of the Journal, $2.70. 

The principal divisions of this volmne are morphology and culture of micro- 
organisms; physiology of microorganisms; and applied microbiology, in which 
section such subjects are included as microorganisms in water, microbiology of 
sewage, microbiology of milk and milk products, and microbiology of special in- 
dustries (among others, dessication, evaporation, and drying of foods, heat in the 
preservation of foods, the preservation of food by cold, and the preservation of 
food by chemicals). Microbiology of the diseases of man and animals is also 
considered. 

The different sections have been contributed by a number of collaborators. As 
stated in the introduction, "Agriculture and domestic science call for the treatment 
of the subject in such a manner as to make it basic to the interpretation of such 
subjects as air impurities, water supplies, sewage disposal, soils, dairying, fermen- 
tation industries, food preservation and decomposition, manufacture of biological 
products, transmission of disease, susceptibility and immunity, sanitation, and 
control of infectious or contagious diseases. A strong effort has been made to 
provide the fundamental and guiding principles of the subject and to show just 
how these principles fit into the subjects of a more or less strictly professional or 
practical nature. Here the instructional work of the microbiologist stops in most 
educational institutions and the instruction of the practical or professional man 
begins." 

The Lunch Room. By P. Richards. Chicago: Hotel Monthly, pp. 190, figs. 
13, dgms. 40, charts 15. $2. 

This volume takes up plans, equipment, management, and accounting of lunch 
rooms, and the sale of foods (coffee, tea, etc.), and gives a collection of bills of fare. 
Dishes considered particularly suited to lunch-room trade make up the bulk of the 
volume. 



BOOKS RECEIVED. 

The Housekeeper's Handy-Book. By Lucia Millet Baxter. New York, 

Houghton Mifflin Company. $i net. By mail of the Journal, $i.io. 
The Home Candy Maker. ByM. A. Pease. Elgin, Illinois. $i net. By 

mail of the Journal, $i.o8. 
The Etiquette of Today. By Edith B. Ordway. New York: Sully and 

Kleinteich. $0.50 net. By mail of the Journal, $0.55. 
Food in Health and Disease. By Nathan S. Davis, Jr., A.M., M.D., Phila- 
delphia: P. Blackiston's Sons and Company, 1912. $3.50 net. By mail 

of the Journal, $3.65. 
Harper's Household Handbook. By M. M. Williams. New York: Harper 

and Brothers, net $1. By mail of the Journal, $1.08. 
The Gardener and the Cook. By Lucy H. Yates. New York: McBride, 

Nast and Company. $1.25 net. By mail of the Journal, $1.35. 
Shelter and Clothing. By Helen Kinne and Emma M. Cooley. New York: 

Macmillan Company. $1.10 net. By mail of the Journal, $1.20. 
Laboratory Work in Applied Chemistry, for Students in Domestic Science. 

By A. Henwood and F. H. Griffin. Philadelphia: The Institute Press, 

Drexel Institute. 1912, pp. 62, $1.50. 
The Task of Social Hygiene. By Havelock Ellis. New York: Houghton 

Mifflin Company. $2.50 net. By mail of the Journal, $2.65. 
The Mary Frances Cook Book, or Adventures Among the Kitchen People. 

By Jane E. Fryer. Philadelphia: J. C. Winston Company. $1.20 net. 

Ey mail of the Journal, $1.28. 
Books of Etiquette: Boys and Girls and Manners. By Florence Howe Hall. 

Boston: Dana, Estes and Company. $1.35 net. By mail of the Journal, 

$1.45- 

Colonial Homes and Their Furnishings. By Mary H. Northend. Boston: 
Little, Brown and Company. $5 net. By mail of the Journal, $5.25. 

Reclaiming the Old House. By Charles E. Hooper. New York: McBride, 
Nast and Company. $2. By mail of the Journal, $2.20. 

The Healthy Baby : the Care and Feeding of Infants. By Roger H. Dennett, 
M.D. New York: The MacMillan Company. $1. By mail of the Journal, 
$1.12. 

'The Use of Corn, Kafir and Cowpeas in the Home. By C. F. Langworthy 
and Caroline L. Hunt. Pp. 12. U. S. Dept. Agr., Farmers' Bulletin 559, 
October 16, 1913. 

Medical Milk Commissions and Certified Milk. By Ernest Kelly, In Charge 
Market Milk Investigations. Bureau of Animal Industry. September 
17, 1913, pp. 38, pis. s, fig. I. U. S. Dept. Agr. Bulletin i. $0.10. 

Vitrified Brick as a Paving Material for Country Roads. By Vernon M. 
Peirce, Chief Engineer, and Charles H. Mooreficld, Senior Highway En- 
gineer, Office of Public Roads. Office of Public Roads, Sept. 17, 1913, pp- 
34, pis. ID, figs. 3. U. S. Dept. Agr. Bulletin 23. $0.10. 

474 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD. 

The Washington Home Economics Association held its first meeting of the season 

at the Washington Public Library, on the afternoon of October 7. The topic 

Th W h* under consideration was "Markets and Marketing." Mr. Her- 

„ bert A. Smith of the Department of Agriculture was asked to 

ton Home , . , . , , , , ^. ., ^ 

P . speak on cooperative buymg as demonstrated by the Cml Serv- 

. . . . ice Council of which Mr. Smith is the founder. After the busi- 

ASSOCifltlOQ* 

ness of the association was completed, Mr. Smith's accounts 
proved so interesting and instructive that the session was practically given over 
to him. The Civil Service Council (originally an association of men and women 
in the Govenmaent and District service) have experimented in cooperative buy- 
ing with such success that a cooperative grocery has been opened to all and has 
run most successfully for two years. The objects sought by this association are : 
first, the elimination of unnecessary charges upon the consumer; second, the as- 
surance of fair dealing; third, the supply of foods that are wholesome, pure, and 
produced under good sanitary working conditions. The Council believes that 
cooperation offers the most feasible means of accomplishing these ends. The cus- 
tomary methods of doing retail business involves elements of cost which thrifty 
people would be glad to escape. These include bad debts, delayed pa>Tnents, 
extravagance in delivery systems, and what may be called advertising charges. 
The Council assures fair dealing; it offers itself as an open door; it does not pretend 
to have solved the problems confronting the consumer; it has not arrived; it is only 
setting out; but it has worked out a method of business which reduces the cost of 
distribution to a minimum. In the open discussion which followed Mr. Smith's 
talk, the President of the Housekeeper's Alliance, Mrs. Alice E. Whitaker, told of 
two or three unsuccessful cooperative concerns in Washington. The account of 
these hoaxes was interesting in contrast to the open and successful operations 
demonstrated by the Council. 

The first autumn meeting of the Executive Committee of the New England Home 

Economics Association was held at Elizabeth Peabody House, 357 Charles Street, 

-J T7 1 H Boston, on Saturday, October 18, with Mrs. White, the presi- 

dent, in the chair, and many other members present. Sub- 

. committees on College Credit, Rural Schools, Grammar School 

Courses of Study, Dietetics, and Housekeepers Problems were 

duly appointed, the Chairmen to confer with the Executive 

Committee in a special meeting, within two weeks. The first regular meeting was 

held November 25. The general policy for the year is to define the place of woman's 

work. The general subject, the "Economic Value of Woman's Work in the Home." 

Effort is being made to secure a home-room where members may go for help in 

solving their problems. There is a great deal of enthusiasm among the members 

and we have every promise of a very successful year. 

475 



476 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

Ten years ago the teachers of cooking in the Philadelphia public schools banded 
themselves into an organization which developed into the Home Economics Asso- 
ciation of Philadelphia. We are proud that we have weathered 
Home Econom- all storms or rather all "periods of calm." This year we have 
ics Association strengthened our efforts by adopting a new constitution, pat- 
of Philadelphia, temed after the constitution of the American Home Economics 
Association. 

To quote from our constitution: "The councilors shall be the representatives 
to all organizations with which we are affiliated, and the chairmen of standing com- 
mittees." 

Mr. John B. Leeds is our representative to the Home and School League, an or- 
ganization whose name alone makes known its purpose; and Miss Alice A. Johnson 
is the representative to the American Home Economics Association. 

Our standing committees are specially well equipped with efficient chairmen. 
An enumeration will give an idea of the scope of the work to be undertaken this 
year: School Feeding, Miss Emma Smedley; Pure Food, Miss Sydney Evans; 
Household Science, Miss Grace F. Blood; Household Arts, Miss M. Jane Garrett; 
Current Topics, Miss Hannah Hill. 

To quote again from the constitution: "Each committee shall have its ofl&cers 
consisting of chairman and secretary, and shall be responsible for the program of 
at least one meeting each year." 

The Home Economics Association of Greater New York held its first meeting 
of the season on Thursday afternoon, October 2, at the Washington Irving High 

School. Mr. Frank Alva Parsons, President of the New York 
Home Econom- School of Fine and Applied Arts, was the speaker of the after- 
ics Association noon, and gave a most interesting talk on "The Relation of Art 
of Greater New to the Household Problem." His address was given in the model 
York. apartment, which was crowded almost to discomfort. Before 

Mr. Parson's talk, tea was served in the demonstration dining- 
room by the high school students, under the direction of Miss Willard, a normal 
graduate of this school. A large number of the faculty of this School were present, 
and all the senior normal students attended. 

The Home Economics Department at the University of Maine, Orono, is making 
rapid strides in growth and development. Much of its present status and efficiency 
is due to the splendid work of Miss Laura Comstock, who or- 
University of ganized the department and carried it through its infancy to 
Maine. a position of importance. In June, Miss Comstock severed 

her connection with the University, in order to work in a still 
broader field. The present staff consists of Miss Cornelia Palmer, Miss Lilian 
Randall and Miss Dorothea Beach. 

The opening year presents problems characteristic of growing institutions and 
welcomed because of the life and growth thus indicated. 

A niunber of changes have been necessary in rooms and equipment in order not 
only to accommodate the home economics work but to make more room for the 
various other branches in the College of Agriculture. 



1913] News from the Field ^yy 

"The Maples," formerly used as a dwelling, has been remodeled for the use o^ 
classes. Here is now situated the new kitchen laboratory, increased one-third 
in capacity together with the supply and store rooms and department ofEce. These 
are on the first floor. On the second floor, are the rooms for practical housework — 
a small suite consisting of kitchen, dining-room, bed-room and bath. Here also, 
are another office and a rest room. On the third floor is one large art room with a 
smaller supply room. The art room is fitted up with drawers and lockers for the 
use of the students and the walls are covered with burlap for e.xhibiting purposes. 
The sewing and handiwork, laundry, and lectures, are stQl given in Winslow Hall. 

The large increase in the proportion of students taking the four year home eco- 
nomics course this year, gives great satisfaction to the faculty. This shows a 
growth in the right direction and a discerning attitude toward the importance of 
the work. 

The Home Economics Club of Grand Rapids gave a reception on the afternoon 

of October 22, at which Mrs. Mary Schenck Woolman was the guest of honor 

TT -p About one hundred guests called during the receiving hours. 

, ci h f '^^^ guests were received by Miss Lauretta Morrissey, President 

r^ J T. 3 J of the Home Economics Club, Mrs. Woolman, Miss Isabel Ely 
(irand Rapids, t , r t^ t • 11 ,. . 

Lord of Pratt Institute, who was here attending the Vocational 

Guidance conference, and Miss Rawson. 

The Iowa Home Economics Association held its annual meeting in Des Moines, 
November sixth and seventh, at the Young Women's Christian Association Building. 
.. TT The following program was carried out as preWously arranged: 

p. . Methods of Teaching, Miss Grace Schermerhom, Director of 

. Practice Teaching, Iowa State CoUege; Address, Prof. Ruth 

WardaU, Director Home Economics, State University; Educa- 
tive Value of Pictures, Mrs. E. B. Wilson, Teachers' Institute Lecturer; Home 
Economics in relation to Normal Training High Schools, Mr. Fred Mahannah, 
State Inspector of Home Economics in High Schools; Some City Problems which 
Home Economics should Help to Solve, Miss Carolyn Grimsby, Municipal Courts 
of Chicago, formerly with School of Civics and Philanthropy, Chicago; Question 
Box, Professor Young, Teachers' CoUege, and Miss Charlie Tidd, Director of Home 
Economics, Des Moines College; Business Meeting, conducted by Miss Neale S. 
Knowles, President of the Association. 

On the afternoon of November 6 the home economics teachers of Des Moines 
invited all present at the meeting to a reception in the Young Women's Christian 
Association parlors. 

The chief purpose of the Association is to create greater interest in the subject 
of good home making and general community improvement, and to establish a more 
hearty cooperation between teachers, club women, and all other earnest women. 
Every woman in the state is urged to become a member and to help make this 
the strongest association of its kind in the United States. 

By paying the yearly dues of $1, any Iowa woman may become a member. 
Send name and address to Miss Nellie Finger, Indianola, Iowa. 



478 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

The Wisconsin Journal of Education gives this statement concerning the appoint- 
ment of Miss Emma Conley as State Inspector of Domestic Science of Wisconsin. 
"No better appointment has ever been made by State Superin- 
Appointment of tendent Gary than that of Miss Emma Conley of Fond du Lac, 
Miss Conley. who comes to the position of State inspector of domestic science. 
Miss Conley was for many years a teacher in the Fond du Lac 
public schools, later receiving her technical training at the University of West 
Virginia from which she has an A. B. degree. Miss Conley has also done post- 
graduate work at the University of Minnesota. She has been known to Wisconsin 
educators mostly in connection with her work in the Marathon county training 
school and also at Stout Institute. Last year she was head of this department in 
the Oshkosh normal. The domestic science teachers of the state wiU welcome Miss 
Conley to this position and they should all be considered as fortunate in having a 
super\asor of her quahfications and attainments." 

Dr. William A. McKeever, former Professor of Philosophy in the Kansas State 
Agricultural College, is now Professor of Child Welfare in the University of Kansas, 
Lawrence. Our readers may be glad to know that this new 
Dr. Wm. A. position will allow more time and opportunity for doing the real 
McKeever. child welfare work in which Dr. McKeever is so much interested. 

This is probably the first chair of the kind in the United States. 
Dr. McKeever will continue to issue the Home Traini^ig Bulletins charging as 
hitherto, two cents for samples, and one cent each for quantity orders, as a means 
of helping out the expense. So far the nine numbers listed below have been issued : 
The Cigarette Smoking Boy, Teaching the Boy to Save; Training the Girl to Help 
in the Home; Assisting the Boy in the Choice of a Vocation; A Better Crop of 
Boys and Girls; Training the Boy to Work; Teaching the Girl to Save; Instruct- 
ing the Young in Regard to Sex; and The Boy's Vacation Enjoyment. The next 
bulletin will probably treat the subject. Teaching the Child to Play. 

The American Public Health Association held its forty-first annual meeting at 

Colorado Springs, September 9 to 13. In addition to the seven general sessions 

there were eighteen sessions held by the various sections, such 

American Pub- as: Laboratory, Public Health, Vital Statistics, Sanitary Engi- 

lic Health Asso- neering and Sociology. 

ciation. Some idea of the scope of the work will be given by the fol- 

lowing subjects: Rural Health Work, Methods of Fly Fighting, 
Occupational Diseases, Milk and Water — ways of making them fit to drink, or pre- 
venting contamination. Infectious Diseases, Sanitation, Sewage, Securing Funds 
for Public Health, and Economic Aspects of Health. 

These and many other subjects were discussed by prominent physicians, health 
commissioners, and philanthropists from nearly every State, in the Union. The 
unusual entertainments extended to the association included a ride through the 
Garden of the Gods and a jungle party and barbecue at the mouth of the Cheyenne 
Canon. 



1913] Xeu's from the Field 479 

This Congress, which was held in Brussels July 23 to 26, 1913, was organized 
under the direction of the Belgian ministers of Foreign Affairs, the Interior, and 

Justice. An international committee of organization, composed 
International of representatives from fifteen or twenty countries, drew up the 
Congress for general outline of the program. The work was divided between 
the Protection two sections, one on morally neglected children, and one on child 
of Childhood. hygiene and training, and included discussion of such topics as the 

competence of children's courts, abnormal children, means of 
securing uniformity in statistics of infant mortality, popularizing knowledge of child 
hygiene, the protection of children outside of the home, alcoholism, and the forma- 
tion of an international bureau for the protection of childhood. 

An International Congress for the Fight Against the Deterioration and the 
Adulteration of foodstuffs was held at Ghent, August i to 3, 1913. This was one 

of the notable gatherings at the Ghent "Exposition de la Fal- 
Congress at sification des Denrees Alimcntaires." The work was divided 
Ghent to Oppose into four sections, namely: Chemistry, Hygiene, Consumption — 
Food Adulter- Educational and Popular work, — and Legislation. 
ation. The topics for consideration at the congress included protection 

of foods from dirt; regulation of the production and sale of mineral 
waters, aerated waters, ice water for household uses, etc., the production and sale 
of milk and milk products; organizations of buyers and consimiers; the hygiene of 
factories and shops for manufacture and sale of foodstuffs; regulations for the wash- 
ing of drinking glasses used in hotels and other public places; and similar topics. 

An Enghsh-speaking Conference of the National Association (Great Britain) 
for the Prevention of Infant Mortality and for the Welfare of Infancy, was held 

at Claxton Hall, Westminster, on August 4 and 5, 1913. The 
The Prevention Right Honorable John Bums is president of the Association and 
of Infant Mor- it is under the patronage of their Majesties, the King and Queen, 
tality. The subjects for the Administrative section of the Conference 

were: The Responsibility of Central and Local Authorities in 
the Matter of Infant and Child Hygiene and the Administrative Control of the Milk 
Supply; and for the Medical Section: The Necessity for Special Education in 
Infant Hygiene, Medical Milk Problems, and Ante-natal Hygiene. 

Valuable papers were presented at all of the Sections, the United States and Can- 
ada as well as Great Britain, being represented among the contributors. Stat- 
utory administrative authorities, medical ofi&cers of health, members of the med- 
ical profession actively engaged in clinical practice, and a number of voluntary 
associations were represented at the Conference by numerous delegates. The latter 
associations included, among others, St. Pancras School for Mothers, Women's 
National Health Association of Ireland, Leeds Babies' Welcomes, London County 
Council, Glasgow Infant Health Visitors' Association, Birmingham Infants' 
Health Society and School of Mothercraft, and the National League for Physical 
Education and Improvement. The Conference Committees included a represen- 
tative committee of the American Association for the Study and Prevention of 
Infant Mortality. 



480 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

The program included, among others, the following papers of special interest to 
Home Economics workers: The Health Authority's Work in the Home, by Dr. 
Charles A. Hodgetts (Ottawa); The Problem of the Institutional Child, by Dr. 
H. L. K. Shaw (Albany); The Teaching of Infant Care in Elementary Schools, by 
Dr. Christopher Addison, M. P. (London); The Education of the Girl in Relation 
to Infant Mortality, by Dr. Caroline Hedger (Chicago) ; The Necessity for Special 
Education in Infant Hygiene, by Dr. L. E. La Fetra (New York City); The New 
Zealand Scheme for Promoting the Health of Women and Children, by Dr. Truby 
King (Dunedin) ; The Necessity for Special Education in Infant Hygiene, by Dr. 
C. Paget LaPage (Manchester); The Essential Factors in Scientific Substitute 
Feeding of Infants, by Dr. Henty L. Coit (Newark, N J.); The Simphcity and 
Advantages of Percentage-Feeding, Maintenance of the Proteid Ratio, and Esti- 
mation of Caloric in Ordinary Practice, by Dr. Truby King (Dunedin) ; The Use of 
Desiccated Milk, by Dr. A. E. Naisch, (Sheffield) ; The Economical Consideration 
of Uses of Dried Milk and Patent Foods, by Dr. Eric Pritchard (London) ; and Milk 
in the Poor Home, by Dr. G. R. Piser. 

The efforts of the Housekeepers' AUiance are to be centered upon the establish- 
ment and maintenance of a School of Housekeeping where anyone who desires may 

receive instruction in all branches of housekeeping. Besides 
Washington this work the already active reference circle of permanent and 
Housekeepers' auxiliary helpers is to be continued, and the nucleus of a house- 
Alliance, hold bureau of information further developed. The former work 

of committees on investigating laundresses' homes, on market 
inspection, and on securing wrapped bread for the District of Columbia wiU undoubt- 
edly be continued. 

Teachers CoUege has just published for free distribution a four page pamphlet 

giving the floor plans of Household Arts Building, Teachers 

Teachers CoUege, Columbia University. It includes cuts of the various 

College. floors with accompanying descriptions. Apply to publication 

bureau. Teachers College, Columbia University, which will also 

send a Ust of technical bulletins published on home economic subjects. 

The National Society for the Promotion of Industrial Education held its 

Seventh Annual Convention this year in the city of Grand Rapids, Michigan, Oc- 

_,, _, ^, , tober ig to 2C. In connection with this meeting, the Vocational 

The National „ ., ^ . . . .„ , , , ,. , , . •. 

o . X jr it Guidance Association wiU hold a convention and complete its 
Society for the . . ., , . , , , , .• r 

T> i. ^ organization. About a week is to be devoted to the meeting or 

Promotion of , . . , . . , . . t j 

T J X . , these two associations and a very notable body of men and 
Industrial .„ , , „ , . , »,.,•.••. 

p, J women wiU undoubtedly be in attendance. An exhibition is to 

be given of the products of manual training schools throughout 
the country in one of the numerous buildings in Grand Rapids devoted to display- 
ing furniture, and the United States government is sending a very extensive exhibit 
of the things made by the natives in the schools of the Philippine Islands. On 
Sunday morning, October 19, prominent speakers from aU over the United States 
are to occupy twenty or more of the pulpits of the Grand Rapids churches. On 



19 13] News from the Field 481 

the Tuesday following, the Vocational Guidance Association will hold its first ses- 
sion and complete its organization begun a year ago. 

On Thursday the National Society for the Promotion of Industrial Education 
will have its first session. The most notable meeting will be held on Thursday 
evening, when Hon. \Vm. C. Redfield, president of the society, and Secretary of 
Commerce, will be the principal speaker. Other speakers on that occasion will 
be Gov. Woodbridge N. Ferris, of Michigan who came into prominence as the suc- 
cessful teacher in an institution devoted to industrial education, and Laura Drake 
Gill, of the University of the South, and widely known to club women as a brilliant 
speaker. Other prominent speakers on other occasions will be Ida M. Tarbell; 
John Dewey, Professor of Philosophy, Columbia University; David Snedden, 
Commissioner of Education for Massachusetts; C. R. Richards, director of Cooper 
Union, New York; Frank M. Leavitt, of the University of Chicago; C. A. Prosser, 
Secretar>' of the National Society for the Promotion of Industrial Education; W. 
Stanwood Field, director of Evening and Continuation Schools in Boston; Owen R. 
Love joy, secretary National Child Labor Committee, New York; Prof. George H. 
Mead, of the University of Chicago, and Dr. Leonard P. Ayres, director of the 
Educational Department, Russell Sage Foundation, New York. 

The Bureau of Insular .\ffairs, War Department, has issued a review of educa- 
tional affairs in the Philippines. An abstract of this review is given to show the 

importance of Home Economics and related subjects. 
Educational "In discussing general Philippine conditions before a distin- 

Progress in the guished audience in one of the great universities of this country 
Philippines. a few months ago, a lecturer, in referring to the school system 

there, spoke of it as constituting 'the greatest primary school sys- 
tem in the world,' not in respect of the greatest number of pupils in attendance nor 
in respect of great amounts of money expended but great in that it meets the needs of 
the people and is instrumental in bringing about decidedly better economic and 
social conditions among them. 

"Conditions in the Philippines demand early specialization. In the prescribed 
course of study this specialization is introduced in the first year of the intermediate 
courses, of which si.x are provided: the general course; the course for teaching; the 
course in farming; the trade course; the course in housekeeping and household arts; 
and the course in business. To delay specialization until the secondary course is 
reached, would result in sending out from the public schools the vast majority of 
the pupils without any special preparation to fit them for useful careers in the more 
or less humble stations in life to which the great majority of this or any other 
country must be confined. 

"It is planned to establish at least one school offering the course in farming in 
each division. At present six such schools are in operation, while one additional 
school offers more extensive instruction in agriculture. 

"There are 259 intermediate schools offering the general course; 96, the house- 
keeping and household arts course; 49, the teaching course; 40, the trade course; 
6, the farming course; and 2, the course in business. 

"All of the Insular schools which include the Philippine Normal School, the Phil- 
ippine School of Arts and Trades, the School of Household Industries, the Philippine 
School of Commerce, and the School for Deaf and Blind, are fulfilling the purposes 



482 The Journal oj Home Economics [December 

for which they were established and are turning out large numbers of young men 
and women every year to take conspicuous places in community activities. 

"The com campaign conducted by the Bureau of Education was the most im- 
portant of the special features of the work of the past school year. Two contests 
were arranged, one for the production of the best ears of com, and the other for 
the most com on a given area. In addition to this, demonstrations were given in 
practically all of the municipalities of the Islands in the use of com as a human 
food. 

"The campaign received the enthusiastic support of the people and officials 
alike, and has resulted in an immense amoimt of good in disseminating knowledge 
of the most advanced methods of com production, and the use of com as himian 
food. 

"One of the main purposes of this campaign was to impress upon the Filipino 
the fact that corn is a food for human consumption, with the hope that the culti- 
vation of corn might be increased. Some idea of the extent of this campaign can 
be gained from the fact that 30,327 boys were enrolled in the contests; 6,660 girls 
were taught com recipes; 235 demonstrations were held; and 247,048 people were 
served. Approximately one-half million people attended the demonstrations. 
The recipes used called for the use of utensils and ingredients found in the average 
Filipino home. 

"The program for industrial instruction for the public schools has been carefully 
worked out and includes most of the important Philippine industrial activities. 
It covers seven years of work — the four years of the primary course, and the three 
years of the intermediate course — and provides instruction in agriculture, domes- 
tic science, needle work in its various forms, weaving of Philippine fibers, and work 
in wood, iron and clay. 

"The director's report shows that during the past year 19,958 boys were taking 
the trade and shop work; that 100,648 boys were engaged in gardening and farm- 
ing; 12,969 girls were taking the gardening work; and that 83,193 girls were study- 
ing housekeeping and household arts. Among other crafts and industries we 
find 12,993 girls learning lace making; 12,625, embroidery; 6,660, cooking; 10,456 
boys and 3,031 girls making hats; 29,527 pupils were studying mat making; and 
73,835 working on baskets." 

In this connection attention is also called to the notice sent out by the U. S. Civil 
Service Commission. "The last exanimation before appointments are made of 
those who wiU attend the 1914 session of the Vacation Assembly at Baguio, the 
summer capital of the Philippines, as a preparation for their work with the Bureau 
of Education, is announced, by the United States Civil Service Commission, for 
December 30-31, 1913, in various cities throughout the United States. 

"From the eligible list thus secured appointments will be made during the com- 
ing Spring for service in the Philippine Islands, beginning with the opening of 
schools next school year. The service requires: Women for Home Economics, 
men for agriculture. Manual Training, High School Science, Mathematics, English, 
History, and Supervisors of school districts. For information relative to the na- 
ture of the service and the examination, address Bureau of Insular Affairs, Wash- 
ington, D. C." 



CHANGES IN THE PUBLICATIONS OF THE UNITED 
STATES DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE. 

Home economics workers will be interested to know that the Secretary of 
Agriculture has announced new plans of publication work for that department. 
The changes that affect the publications in which they are most likely to be 
interested are the following. There has been in the past an independent series 
of bulletins and circulars in each of the thirteen publishing bureaus, divisions, 
and offices of the department. Such series have included technical bulletins 
on Animal Production, Plant Production, Nutrition, Chemistry, etc. These 
series have been discontinued and will be superseded by the Journal of Research 
to contain scientific and technical matter, and by a departmental series of 
bulletins, written in popular language for selected and general distribution. 
By this plan the confusion that has resulted from the multiplicity of series 
of publications will be avoided, and the saving of a considerable sum will be 
effected annually. 

Under the new plan the department will discontinue the general distribution 
of scientific or technical matter of little or no use to the lay reader, and will 
supply technical information only to those directly interested and capable of 
using such material and of understanding the results of research work couched 
in scientific terms. At the same time there will hereafter be distributed a 
larger amount of information in popular form which the average reader can 
immediately apply to his own direct advantage, and thereby increase the agri- 
cultural productiveness, aid in the rational utilization of agricultural products, 
and benefit the health of the nation. 

The highly scientific matter, heretofore published indiscriminately in bulle- 
tins and circulars, will hereafter be published only in the newly established 
Journal of Research, which will be issued about once a month. This Journal 
will be royal octavo, of the scientific magazine type, and contain 75 to 100 
pages per number, 12 numbers constituting a volume. Such matter in the 
Journal as seems to merit additional circulation may be issued in the form of 
reprints or separates. For the present at least, the Journal will include only 
the results of research carried on by the various bureaus, divisions and offices, 
but it may be extended to include the scientific research work of the state agri- 
cultural experiment stations. Extensive scientific articles, embodying a com- 
plete report of research investigations, will be considered as monographs, and 
may be published as supplements to the Journal. 

The Journal will be distributed free to agricultural colleges, technical schools, 
experiment stations, libraries of large universities and certain government de- 
positories and institutions making suitable exchanges; also to a restricted list 
of scientific workers. Home economics students should be able to consult this 
in their school or college library. Copies of the Journal will also be sold by 
the Superintendent of Documents Government Printing Office, who will also 

483 



484 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

receive subscriptions for this publication, the price being $2.50 per volume of 
12 numbers. 

The Monthly Crop Reporter will no longer be published. .\s a partial substi- 
tute for the printed Crop Reporter, a Weekly News Letter to crop correspondents 
will be issued in typewritten facsimile form. Its circulation will be limited to 
official crop correspondents. It will contain summaries of more important dis- 
coveries and recommendations of the various bureaus, divisions, and offices. 

The Experiment Station Record, like the Weather Review and North American 
Fauna will continue to be issued with certain modifications. The Yearbook 
will be restricted to articles of the magazine type, which, it is believed, will add 
greatly to the popularity and value of the volume, of which 500,000 copies are 
printed and distributed annually. A series of Bulletins of the U. S. Depart- 
ment of Agriculture will also be issued. In this series all the publications of 
the various bureaus, divisions and offices will be printed. These bulletins may 
be any size from 4 to 60 pages, and will be semi-technical or scientific, or pop- 
ular in character. They will capitalize for popular use the discoveries of labo- 
ratories and scientific specialists. Bulletin No. i of this series, which appeared 
September 17, 1913, is entitled Medical Milk Commission and Certified Milk. 

The series of Farmers' Bulletins will be continued, and the bulletins will 
contain, as heretofore, practical, concise, specific, and constructional statements 
with regard to matters relating to farming, stock raising, the use of agricultural 
products on the farm and in the home, fruit growing, etc. The form of the 
Farmers' Bulletins has been changed by the omission of a title page and table 
of contents. The first nutrition publication to appear in the new form is The 
Use of Corn, Kafir, and Cowpeas in the Home, which is Farmers' Bulletin No. 
559. Much of the information accumulated by the Department, calling for 
immediate circulation, will be issued hereafter in the form of statements to the 
press instead of being held back as heretofore for weeks until a bulletin could be 
printed and issued. 

The new plan of publication work has been designed primarily to improve 
the character of the Department's publications, and secondarily to prevent waste 
in distribution; and through the economies effected, a greater output of infor- 
mation will become possible with the available appropriation. Certain changes 
will be made in the existing form of the publications, designed with a view to 
improving their appearance, reducing their size, and adapting them to wider 
distribution. 

The Department of Agriculture publications are of great interest and value 
to home economics workers. Those in which they are most likely to be 
interested will in the future probably be found, as the above summary shows, 
in the Journal of Research, the Department of Agriculture Bulletins, the Far- 
mers' Bulletins, and the Yearbook. This applies to the publications resulting 
from the Nutrition Investigations of the Office of Experiment Stations, which 
directly deal with a home economics topic — food and its use — and also those 
which frequently contribute to home economics, issued by other Bureaus of the 
Department of Agriculture, including the Bureau of Chemistry, Bureau of Ani- 
mal Industry, Bureau of Plant Industry, and the Bureau of Entomology. As 
heretofore, abstracts of current American and foreign work on all these lines 
will bf found in the Experiment Station Record. 



INDEX TO VOLUME V. 
1913- 



Address at University of Toronto, Alice 
Ravenhill, 250 

Address, President's, Sarah Louise 
Arnold, 317 

Administration section, 163 

Administration section — editorial, 167 

Advertisements — editorial, 329 

Agricultural agencies, Extension work 
in home economics through, 60 

American Cookery, by An American 
Orphan, 454 

American Home Economics Associa- 
tion: .Announcement of sixth an- 
nual meeting of, 289; At Rich- 
mond, 381; Cornell meeting, 196; 
Fifth annual meeting, Benjamin 
R. Andrews, 89; Minutes, 93; 
Proceedings of the sixth annual 
meeting, 350 

Andrews, Benjamin R. A course 
in household economics, 26; .Ameri- 
can Cookery, by An American 
Orphan, 454; Fifth annual meet- 
ing of the American Home Econo- 
mics Association, 89; Length of 
laboratory period, 141 

Annual Meeting: Announcement of 
sixth, 289; Fifth, of the American 
Home Economics Association, Ben- 
jamin R. Andrews, 89; Proceed- 
ings of the sixth, 350 

Aknold, Sarah Louise. President's 
address, 371 

Associations: National Society for the 
Promotion of Industrial Educa- 
tion, 195; Second National Housing 
Conference, 192 



B.4RR0WS, Anna. Extension work in 
home economics through agri- 
cultural agencies, 60 

Beginnings of the modem domestic art 
movement, 217 

Bibliography: Of home economics b"t- 
erature, 71, 168, 264, 330, 459; 
For card catalogues — editorial, 263 

Books and Literature, 74, 78, 268, 335, 
464: .Advance of Woman, from the 
Earliest Times to the Present^ 
Christie, 278; Basic Principles of 
Domestic Science, Erich, 177; 
Beverages, Past and Present, Emer- 
son, 469; Birmingham Studies io 
Social Ecomonics and Adjacent 
Fields, Winder, 272; Book of Hand- 
Woven Coverlets, Hall, 273; Brief 
Course in Domestic Science, Mulli- 
gan, 469; Business of Being a Wc^ 
man, Tarbell, 79; Care Committee: 
Child and the Parent, Pepler, 272; 
Child's Day, The, Hutchinson, 
178; Color Harmony in Dress, 
Audsley, 276; Coming Genera- 
tion, The, Forbush, 81; CcHnmoo 
Sense Care of Babies, Austin, 178; 
Composition of Different Varie- 
ties of Rich Peppers, Tolman and 
Mitchell, 471; Composition of 
Food Materials, Langworthy, 470; 
Condition of Nourishment of Pu- 
pils in Munich Public Schools, 
Opp>enheimer and Landauer, 268; 
Dressmaking Self Taught, Carens, 
274; Dyes and Dying, Pellew, 275;, 
Economic Results of Cold Stor- 
age, Wilson, 180; Effect of a Strict- 



485 



486 



The Journal of Home Economics 



[December 



ly Vegetable Diet on the Spontan- 
eous Activity, the Rate of Growth, 
and the Longevity of the Albino 
Rat, Slonaker, 269; Elimination 
of Caffein; Experimental Study 
of Herbivora and Camivora, Salant 
and Rieger, 182; English Cookery 
Books to the Year 1850, Oxford, 
342; English Life and Manners 
in the Later Middle Ages, Abram, 
343; Evolution of the Country 
Community, A Study in Religious 
Sociology, Wilson, 276; Experi- 
mental Domestic Science, Jones, 83; 
Family House, The, Orborne, 82; 
Family and its Sociological As- 
pects, The, Dealey, 178; Food and 
Diet, Government, 342; Food and 
Flavor, Fick, 335; Food Consump- 
tion and Female Labor from the 
Standpoint of Household Econo- 
mics, Brandt-Wyt, 341; Food in 
Health and Disease, Davis, 468; 
Food Values — Practical Tables for 
Use in Private Practice and Public 
Institutions, Locke, 84; Francis W. 
Parker School Year Book, 83; Fresh 
Air and How to Use it, Carrington, 
82; Fuel Oil, Aleshire, 184; Graham 
Flour, Le Clare and Jacobs, 472; 
Home Economics Recipes, Vail, 
341; Home Economics, Washing- 
ton State College, 469; Home 
Nurses' Handbook of Practical 
Nursing, The, Aitkens, 78; Home 
School, The, Trowbridge, 338; 
Hot Water for Domestic Use, .\llen, 
82; Household Account Books of 
Two Parsonages of the Leipzig 
District During the last Century, 
Brand, 343; Household Bacteri- 
ology for Students in Domestic 
Science, Buchanan and Buchanan, 
337; Household Science and Arts, 
Morris, 177; Household Statistics — 
An Historical and Methodological 
Investigation, Albrecht, 2 76; House- 
hold Textiles, Gibbs. 274; House- 



keeping and Cooking Lessons for 
Rural Communities, Cooke, 342: 
House Sanitation, Talbot, 82; Hy- 
giene of Exercise, The, Muzzey, 1 76 ; 
Illinois Farmers' Institute, Depart- 
ment of Household Science, 471; 
Increasing Home Efficiency, Bru- 
ere and Bruere, 336; Institution 
Recipes, Smedley, 271; Kitchen 
Fire and How to Run it, Wright, 
270; Laboratory Manual of Die- 
tetics, Rose, 174; Law of the 
Household, Beecher, 337; Lessons 
in Cooking, Government, 469; 
Lessons in Elementary Cooking, 
Jones, 177; Lunch Room, The, 
Richards, 473; Making Both Ends 
Meet, Clark and Wyatt, 80; Man- 
ual of Personal Hygiene, Pyle, 176; 
Manual of Shoemaking, Dooley, 
83; Manufacture of Preserved 
Foods and Sweetmeats, Hanser, 469 ; 
Microbiology for Agricultural and 
Domestic Science Students, Mar- 
shall, 473; Milk Question, The, 
Rosenau, 270; Mince Meat and 
Other Pure Food and Drug Topics, 
Ladd and Johnson, 182; Modem 
Theories of Diet, Bryce 467; 
New Hostess of Today, The, 
Lamed, 467; New Housekeeping, 
The, Efficiency Studies in Home 
Management, Frederick, 336; Num- 
ber and Varieties of Bacteria 
Carried by the Common Housefly 
in Sanitary and Insanitary City 
Areas, Cox, Lewis, and Glynn, 183; 
Nutritive Coefficient of Antwerp 
Children, Schuyten, 471; Our 
Children's Health at Home and at 
School, Hecht, 340; Personal Hy- 
giene and Physical Training for 
Women, Galbraith, 79; Physio- 
logy of Protein Metabolism, Cath- 
cart, 268; Plumbing and House- 
hold Sanitation, Putnam, 82; 
Primer of Hygiene, Ritchie and 
Caldwell, 339; Primer of Physi- 



I9I3] 



Index to Volume V 



487 



ology, Ritchie and Caldwell 340; 
Primer of Sanitation, Ritchie and 
Caldwell, 339; Principles of Edu- 
cational Practice, Klapper, 464; 
Principles of Organic Chemistry, 
Norris, 176; Proceedings of the 
American Association for Study 
and Prevention of Infant Mortality 
271; Protein Element in Nutri- 
tion, McCay, 466; Publications 
of the Society of Social Reform: 
School Feeding in Greater Ber- 
lin, Simon, 272; Recipes for Prep- 
aration of the Dasheen, Young, 
471; Refrigeration and Food Prod- 
ucts, 181; Report of the Wo- 
man's Institutes of the Province 
of Ontario, 27S; Revitalizing Devi- 
talized Children — .\n Open Win- 
dow Experiment, Roach, 269; 
School Feeding: Its History and 
Practice at Home and Abroad, 
Byrant, 269; School Janitors, Moth- 
ers, and Health, Putnam, 278; 
Science of Hygiene, Pakes, 79; 
Sex Hygiene, (Confidences, False 
Modesty, Herself, Himself, Truths) 
Lowry, 465; Some Experiments in 
the Relative Digestibility of White 
and Wliolemeal Breads, Newman 
and others, 183; Story of a Loaf 
of Bread, Wood, 471; Story of 
Textiles, Walton, 275; Studies 
on the Feeding of School Children, 
van Voorthuysen, 340; Text-book 
of Hygiene for Teachers, Lyster, 
79; Three Gifts of Life, Smith, 
339; Treasure Cookery Book, Mit- 
chell, 469; United Irishwomen, 
Their Place, Works and Ideals, 
Flunkett, Pilkington, and Russell, 
179; United States Public Docu- 
ments relating to Health and Hy- 
giene, including Water Pollution 
and Purification, Food and Diet, 
etc., 342; Woman at Work, Bird 
179. 
Books Received, 84, 184, 280, 344, 474. 



Caroline Rest, 304 

C.\RVER, Thomas Nixon. Home Eco- 
nomics from a man's point of view, 
291 

Chemistry: A course in, for household 
economics students, 117; Physio- 
logical, and nutrition, 143 

Child labor movement. The new, 137 

Children: Management of. Predisposed 
to nervousness, 130; Spoiled, 136; 
The home environment as affecting 
the physical and mental growth of, 
211. 

Class Work in the Girl's Friendly So- 
ciety, 236 

College Courses in gardening, 153 

Congress: Dry Farming and Interna- 
tional, of Farm Women, 289; 
Fourth International, on School 
Hygiene, 286; 385; Second Inter- 
national, for Teaching Household 
Economy, 382 

Connecting the school with the farm 
home, 203 

Conservation Exposition, National, 288 

Cornell : Meeting of the Americal Home 
Economics Association, 196; Meet- 
ing of the Americal Home Econo- 
mics Association — editorial, 328; 
Home economics building, 107 

Criminality of women. Relation be- 
tween occupation and, 224 

Cultural value of domestic science, 232 

Data regarding food supply and sale 
in a men's club, 34 

Department of Agriculture and the 
home woman, 455 

Department of .\griculture. Changes 
in the publication of the, 483 

Dewey, Annie. Man power, organi- 
zation, and rewards, 387 

Dietetics, Nutrition and, from the 
standpoint of physiological Chem- 
istry, 143 

Dietitian. The training of the school, 442 

Domestic Art Movement, The begin- 
nings of the Modem, 217 



488 



The Journal of Home Economics 



[December 



Domestic Educator, Two years as a, 

433 
Domestic Science, The vocational and 
cultural value of, 232 

Editorials: Administration section,i67; 
Affiliated Associations, 70; Annual 
meeting for 1913, 70; Back num* 
bers wanted, 70; Bibliography for 
card catalogues, 263; Bulletins, 69; 
Cornell meeting. The, 328; Depart- 
ment of Agriculture and the home 
woman, 455; Housekeepers' sec- 
tion, 166, 329; Journal advertise- 
ments, 329; Libraries as subscrib- 
ers, 70; Library of social experi- 
ments, 68; Note of warning, 166; 
Permanent exhibits of home eco- 
nomics 261; Press as the household 
aid. The, 456; Richards Day, 458; 
Richards Memorial Fund, 166; 
Syllabus of home economics, 
The, 164; Woman's Who's Who in 
America, 326 
Efficiency, The home and social, 122 
Environment, The home, as ajffecting 
the mental and physical growth 
of school children, 211 
Exhibits, Permanent, of Home Econo- 
mics — editorial, 261 
Exposition, National Conservation, 288 
Extension work in home economics 
through educational agencies, 60 

Farm: Connecting the school with the 
farm home, 203; Dry Farming 
Congress and International Con- 
gress of Farm Women, 289 

Federation of Women's Clubs, Home 
Economics work in, 437 

Food Supply, Some data regarding, 
in a men's club, 34 

Freese, Francina. Caroline Rest, 304 

Gardening, College courses in, 153 
Ghent, Second International Congress 

for Teaching Household Economy, 

382 



GiBBS, Winifred S. Home economics 

in social work, 428 
Girls' Friendly Society, Class work in, 

236 
Girls, Training of, for trade work, 219 
Grange and home economics. The, 206 
Growth, The home environment as 

affecting physical and mental, of 

school children, 211 

Hadley, Edith M. Class work in the 
Girls' Friendly Society, 236 

Hansen, Annie L. Two years as a 
domestic educator, 433 

HoLBROOK, Sarah M. The home en- 
vironment as affecting the physical 
and mental growth of school chil- 
dren, 211 

Home: Connecting the school with the 
farm home, 203 ; Home environment 
as affecting the physical and mental 
growth of school children, 211; 
Home and social efficiency, 122 

Home Economics: Bibliography of, 71, 
168, 264, 330, 459; Cornell build- 
ing. 107; Day obser\'ance, 67; Ex- 
tension work in, 60; from a man's 
point of view, 291; in social work, 
428; Introduction of, in a South 
Carolina rural school, 139; Per- 
manent exhibits of — editorial, 261; 
Syllabus — editorial, 164; The grange 
and, 206; work in the general 
Federation of Woman's Clubs, 437; 
work for men and boys in the 
United States, 239 

Hospitals, Certain New York, Tempera- 
ture and humidity in, 301 

Household Economics: A course in, 
26; Research related to, 109; Sec- 
ond International Congress for 
teaching, 382 

Household Science : A course in chemis- 
try for, 117; building of the Uni- 
versity of Toronto, 257; 

Housekeepers' section — editorial, i66, 

329 
Housing conference, Second annual, 192 



I9I3] 



Iruiex to Volume V 



489 



Humidity and temperature in certain 

New York hospitals, 301 
Hygiene, International Congress on 

School, 286, 385 

Immigrant, The need of the, 307 
Industrial Education, National Society 

for Promotion of, 195 
Industrial vocation. Preparation for, 

397 

Institutes, The Women's, of the Prov- 
ince of Ontario, 197 

Institution economics section. Proceed- 
ings of, 378 

Institution economics section. Report 
of committee on laundry manage- 
ment, 445 

Institution laundries, 47 

Johnson, Helen Louise. Home Eco- 
nomics work in the General Fed- 
eration of Women's Clubs, 437 

JoNA, JuDAH Leon. Nutrition and die- 
tetics from the standpoint of phy- 
siological chemistry, 143 

Kemp, Lilli.\n A. The training of the 

school dietitian, 442 
Kingsbury, Susan. Research related to 

a- household economics, 109 
KiTTREDGE, Mabel H. The need of 
the immigrant, 307 

Labor movement, The new child,i37 
Laboratory, Length of the, period, 141 
Laikd, Annie. The household science 
building of the University of To- 
ronto, 257 
Lake, Alice L. Temperature and 
humidity in certain New York 
hospitals, 301 
Lake, Marguerite B. Relation be- 
tween occupation and criminality 
of women: a summary, 224 
Langworthy, C. F. Home Economics 
in the United States for men and 
boys, 239; Some data regarding the 
food supply and the sale in a men's 



club, 34; The beginnings of the 
modem domestic art movement, 
217. 

Laundries: Commercial, in New York 
City, 44; Institution, 47 

Laundry Management, Report of the 
Committee on, 445 

Leggett, Anna. The introduction of 
home economics in a South Caro- 
lina rural school, 139 

Libraries, as subscribers — editorial, 70 

Library of social experiments — edito- 
rial, 68 

Living, Standards of, 409 

Lunches: in elementary schools, 249; 
School, at Basel, Switzerland, 152 

McKeever, William A. The new 
child labor movement, 137; An- 
nouncement concerning, 478 

Management of school children predis- 
posed to nervousness, 130 
Man power, organization, and rewards, 

387 
Man power. Wanted a test for, 57 
Minutes: Council, 106; E.xecutive com- 
mittee, 103 ; The fifth annual meet- 
ing, 93 

Newcomb, H. Sophie, Memorial Col- 
lege, 151 

News from the Field: American Civic 
Association, 85; American Home 
Economics Association officer hon- 
ored, 345; American Public Health 
Association, 478; Appointment of 
Miss Conley, 478; Appropriations 
of the General Education Board, 
348; Bellingham (Washington) Nor- 
mal School, 188; Brief Notes, 190; 
Conference on Work and Play for 
Children 347; Congress at Ghent, 
479; Connecticut Home Econom- 
ics Association, 346; Conservation 
on the Farm, 191; Cornell Home- 
makers conference, 284; Cornell, 
University, 88, 347; Educational 



490 



The Journal of Home Economics 



[December 



Program in the Philippines, 481; 
Florida State College for Women, 
186; Goddard Seminary, 88; Grand 
Rapids Home Economics Club, 87, 
347, 477; Home Economics Asso- 
ciation of Greater New York, 476; 
Home Economics at the Univer- 
sity of Texas, 283; Home eco- 
nomics books in Ohio traveling 
library, 348; Homemakers exhibit 
and conference, 86; Honorary home 
economics society: Omicron Nu, 
349; Household science in South 
Africa, 349; Howard University, 
189; International Congress for the 
Protection of Childhood, 479; In- 
ternational Congress for the Teach- 
ing of Household Economy 85; 
International Live Stock Show, 
190; Iowa Home Economics Asso- 
ciation, 477; Iowa State College, 
186; McKeever, Dr. William A., 
478; Maryland Agricultural Col- 
lege, 187; Massachusetts Agri- 
cultural College, 191; Menom- 
onee, Michigan, 285; Michigan 
Agricultural College, 189; Michigan 
Home Economics Association, 346; 
Mississippi Industrial Institute 
and College, 191; Missouri Home- 
makers' Conference, 189; Naples 
Table Association for Promoting 
Laboratory Research by Women, 
345; National Society for Promo- 
tion of Industrial Education, 480; 
Nebraska Home Economics Asso- 
ciation, 190; New England Home 
Economics Association, 86; 281, 
475; New Jersey State College of 
Agriculture, 188; Ontario Women's 
Institutes, 85; Philadelphia Home 
Economics Association, 188, 476; 
Prevention of Infant Mortality, 
479; Report blanks for home work, 
285; San Francisco Junior Exposi- 
tion, 282; Simmons College, 188; St. 
Mary-of-the-Woods, Indiana, 348; 
Teachers College, 480; Texas Social 



Welfare Conference, 283; Univer- 
sity of Illinois, 87, 186; University 
of Maine, 347, 476; University of 
Missouri, 187; University of Wis- 
consin, 88; Washington Business 
Women's Exchange, 190; Wash- 
ington Home Economics Associa- 
tion, 87, 282, 475 ; Washington 
Housekeeper's Alliance, 480; Wo- 
man's Labor Exchange in Holland, 
284 
Nutrition and dietetics from the stand- 
point of physiological chemistry 

143 
Nutrition of the people, The, i 

Occupation, Relation between, and 
criminality of women, 224 

Organization, man power, and rewards, 
387 

Parker, Mary E. Preparation for in- 
dustrial vocation, 397 

Patterson, Elizabeth H. The grange 
and home economics, 206 

Preparation for industrial vocation, 397 

President's address, Sarah Louise Ar- 
nold, 317 

Press, The, as the household aid, 456 

Proceedings of the Institution Econo- 
mics Section, 378 

Proceedings of the sixth annual meeting 
of the American Home Economics 
Association, 350 

Publications of the United States De- 
partment of Agriculture, Changes 
in 483 

Putnam, George A.. The women's 
institutes of the Province of On- 
tario, 197 

Ravenhill, Alice. Address at the Uni- 
versity of Toronto, 250 

Refrigerators, 154 

Report of the committee on laundry 
management of the institution eco- 
nomics section, 445 

Research related to household econom- 
ics, 109 



^913] 



Index to Volume V 



491 



Richards, Ellen H., as a correspon- 
dent, 161; Day — editorial, 458; 
Memorial Fund — editorial, 166; 
Wanted a test for man power, 57 

Richmond, American Home Economics 
Association at, 381 

Rogers, William C. Commercial lami- 
dries in New York City, 44 

RuBNER, Max. The nutrition of the 
people, I 

Rural school, The introduction of home 
economics in, 139 

School: Connecting the schools with the 
farm home, 203; Dietitan, The 
training of, 442; Hygiene, Fourth 
International Congress on, 286; 
Lunches in elementary schools, 
249; Lunches at Basel, Switzer- 
land, 152; Training high school 
girls for trade work, 219 

Smell, J. F. A course in chemistry for 
household students, 117 

Social efficiency and the home, 122 

Social experiments, A library of — edi- 
torial, 68 

Social work. Home economics in, 428 

Standards of living, 409 

Stanley, Louise. Report of Interna- 
tional Congress at Ghent, 382 

Syllabus of Home Economics — edito- 
rial, 164 

Talbot, Marion. The vocational and 
and cultural value of domestic 
science, 232 



Temperature and humidity in certain 

New York Hospitals, 301 
Test for man power, 57 
Textile labeling law, 231 
Trade work, Training high school giris 

for, 219 
Training of the school dietitian. The, 

442 
Trioche, G. H. School lunches at 

Basel, Switzerland, 152 

University of Toronto: Address at, 250; 
Household Science Building of, 

257 

Vocation, Preparation for industrial, 

397 

Vocational and cultural value of domes- 
tic science, 232 

Vult£, Hermann T. Refrigerators, 

154 

What our forefathers cooked and ate in 
1810, 157 

White, Eva W. The home of social 
efficiency, 122 

WiLLARD, Meriel W. Training high 
school girls for trade work, 219 

Woman's Who's Who in America — edi- 
torial, 326 

Women: International Congress of 
Farm women, 289; Relation be- 
tween occupation and criminality 
of, 224; Women's Institutes of the 
Province of Ontario, 197 



TX Journal of home economics 

J7 
V.5 

Food 



PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE 
CARDS OR SLIPS FROM THIS POCKET 



UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO LIBRARY 



