









< . :s]-4r 




H 

', 1*)S* » nf- '^'J '^'" '^ -t * ■^ * »• 

^f-M Ik " " ' 



-Hih ,k 




si.4i,^.'i 1 



LIBRARY OF THE 
NEW YORK STATE COLLEGE 
OF HOME ECONOMICS 
CORNELL UNIVERSITY 
ITHACA, NEW YORK 




Cornell University Library 

TX 715.C89 

The institute cook book, planned^^for a 




3 1924 003 592 569 




The original of tiiis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924003592569 




bO 



O "" 

o -s 



2 ^ 



a 



THE INSTITUTE 

COOK BOOK 

PLANNED FOR A FAMILY OF FOUR 

ECONOMICAL RECIPES DESIGNED TO 

MEET THE NEEDS OF THE MODERN 

HOUSEKEEPER 

INCLUDING CHAPTERS ON 

ENTERTAINING FIRELESS COOKERY 

PAPER-BAG COOKERY CHAFING-DISH COOKERY 

CASSEROLE COOKERY MEAT SUBSTITUTES 

WITH SUPPLEMENTARY CHAPTERS ON 

FOOD ECONOMY AND WAR-TIME RECIPES 

PREPARED IN CO-OPERATION WITH 
THE UNITED STAIES FOOD ADMINISTRATION 



By HELEN CRAMP 

Ph.B., University of Chicago 



JUuBtratrb 

Authorized Distributors: 
E. A. MERRIAM :: Springfield, Mass. 



Copyright 1913 
By Helen Cramp 












^ 



^W'^S'- 



R-A-*."-. 



i.jv>: 



^ 



... v.S?-. 






1^ o 2 « » 3 






'"'"1 . ^ 






Vi, 






International Institute 

Department of Domestic Science 



CONDITIONS OF MEMBERSHIP 

Regularly enrolled members of the Department of 
Domestic Science of the International Institute are 
entitled : 

To receive free of charge a copy of the Institute Cook 
Book by Helen Cramp, comprising over 500 pages, 
8 colored plates, and 86 half-tone illustrations. Bound 
in Decorative Sanitas. 

To receive free of charge, upon application, expert advice 
on all questions arising in connection with the manage- 
ment of the household, including advice upon cookery, 
home decorations, domestic economy, household man- 
agement, etc., etc. 

It is mutually understood and agreed: 

A. That this certificate covers the above-mentioned service for a period 
of one year only. 

B. That not more than five questions shall be sent in at any one time 
or during any one month. 

C. ITiat no attention will be paid to inquiries unless certificate number 
is given, and the inquiry is accompanied by a self -addressed stamped 
return envelope. Do not send the certificate, merely give number of 
same which is printed in red on the reverse side. 

INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTE 

1008 ARCH STREET PHILADELPHIA, PA. 

NoTB, — It will increase the interest and profit to be derived from the work of 
the International Institute if the members in any particular neighborhood will 
form a club and meet at regular periods to propose questions of general interest 
and to discuss replies received from the Institute. 



PREFACE 

nno MANY persons a new cook book may sliem an ill-advised 
and altogether unnecessary work; but when we consider the 
leaps and bounds by which domestic science has in the last few 
years progressed and the eagerness with which the modern woman 
strives to learn the newer and better ways of doing things, there 
seems to be ample need for a work that is at once comprehensive 
and up-to-date. 

The author has endeavored to make the recipes as economical 
as possible and has suggested a few ways in which the expense of 
foods and their preparation may be reduced. She has desired 
above all things to simplify the work of the kitchen and to reduce 
the present high cost of living. 

The recipes are planned for a family of four, because four 

seems to be the average number today. They can readily be 

divided by two for a family of two, multipled by one and a half 

for a family of six, multiplied by three-fourths for a family of 

three, etc. Some things, like cakes, for instance, will serve more 

than four; but they will keep for several days, and are better 

made on the original scale. 

(6 



PREFACE 

It is the earnest wish of the author that this book may lighten 
the labors of many women and carry to them suggestions of variety 
and economy. Housekeeping should be a delight instead of 
drudgery, and perhaps it is for the women of America, with their 
ingenuity and eagerness to try new ways of doing things, to show 
the world that woman's work in this, her special field, is neither 
menial nor stupid. 

Acknowledgment is here made of the kindness of the friends 
who have contributed recipes, and especially of the courtesy of 
The Ladies' Home Journal in permitting reproductions of copy- 
righted cuts which originally appeared in black-and-white and in 
color in the pages of that magazine. Much help and inspiration 
have also been received from the very able bulletins published from 
time to time by the United States Department of Agriculture. 



CONTENTS 



PAGE 

The Fine Abt of Cookery 3 

Entertaining 11 

Appetizers 23 

Soups 29 

Fish 49 

Meats 65 

Poultry and Game 93 

Forcemeats, Stuffings, etc 105 

Sauces . _ Ill 

Eggs 121 

Meat Substitutes 133 

Left-Ovees 149 

Vegetables 159 

Entrees 183 

Salads 193 

Puddings and Desserts 207 

Frozen Desserts 231 

Sweet Sauces 247 

Bread, Hot-Cakes, etc 255 

Cakes 289 

Pastry and Pies 317 

Sandwiches and Savories 329 

Cereals 339 

Candy 345 

(iii) 



CONTENTS 



PAGE 

Fruits 357 

Canning and Preserving 365 

Pickles 385 

Beverages 391 

Invalid Cookery 401 

FiRELEss Cookery 413 

Paper-Bag Cookery 451 

Chafing-Dish Cookery 461 

Casserole Cookery 475 

Menus 481 

General Index 485 

Alphabetical Index ......... 499 



Gt) 



THE FINE ART OF COOKERY 



THE FINE ART OF COOKERY 

FROM the time fire was first brought to serve the needs of man, 
whether it was Prometheus or some less poetic mortal who ac- 
complished that great feat, it is probable that more or less cooking 
has been done. The art of cookery, however, is a late development, 
consequent on culture and the increase of wealth. Our early an- 
cestors ate and drank a great deal, it is true; but the meal was first 
and last a process of feeding, with little or no attempt to please the 
eye or appeal to the subtler refinements of the palate. All eating 
was done with the fingers, and food was served in straightforward 
fashion, often in such abundance and crudity as would take the ap- 
petite of a healthy man today. Cookery, then, as we know it, is 
the result of civilization. It is inextricably bound up, of course, 
with the necessities of nutrition, but mere hunger of itself will not 
produce cookery. Like modern painting and literature, it is 
largely a heritage from the Renaissance, which in the fifteenth 
and sixteenth centuries spread over Europe from Italy as center, 
carrying light and beauty in its train. 

Yet the cooking itself has always been looked upon as a despised 
work. The contempt of Lynette for Gareth, "but a kitchen- 
knave," is typical of an attitude that has lasted well into the pres- 
ent day. In late years, happily, with the rise of science in all its 
varied branches, a new interest in the subject has been awakened, 
and women of education and attainments have become more gen- 
erally concerned with what is going on within their kitchens. We 
remember with amusement the time when writing was regarded as 
menial, when kings would not wield a pen, and were dependent for 
whatever writing was needed upon the work of hired scribes. Who 
knows but that cooking may also some day be honored equally by 
aU? 

3 



THE FINE ART OF COOKERY 

However that may be, it is at least essential that every house- 
wife should know something of the scientific principles of nutri- 
tion and should endeavor to have the meals served in her house- 
hold both wholesome and attractive. " Nothing," says Dr. Harvey 
W. Wiley, for many years chief chemist of the United States De- 
partment of Agriculture, "is more important in the evolution of 
the race than dietetics. The study of buying for the table and the 
proper preparation of what is bought, is as much an art as the writ- 
ing of a good book or the composition of a fine piece of poetry *' 

Food and Its Uses. — In many ways the body is like a machine, 
with food as its source of motive energy. In the furnace fuel is 
burned quickly, in the body, slowly; but the final results are the 
same. The body differs from the machine, however, in that the 
food or fuel assists in building up as well as in supplying energy. 
Further, if more fuel is taken into the body than is necessary, it 
can be stored as reserve material, usually in the form of fat. 

Foods are classified according to their uses in the following man- 
ner: . 

FnoTEiN—forins tissue; yields energy. 

White of egg 

Curd of milk 

Lean meat 

Gluten of grain 

Old peas, beans, lentils 
Fats — stored as fat; yield energy. 

Fat of meat 

Butter 

Ohve oil 

Oils of nuts and grains 

Cahbohtdbates — transformed into fat: yield energy. 

Starch 

Sugar 
Mineral Mattehs — form hone; assist in digestion. 

Phosphates of lime, potash, soda, etc. 



THE FINE ART OF COOKERY 

In general it may be said that the different nutrients can to a 
greater or less extent do one another's work, one being burned as 
fuel in place of another; but while protein can be burned in the 
place of fats and carbohydrates, neither of these can do the work 
of the protein In building or repairing tissue. Care should there- 
fore be taken to preserve the proper balance of foods in every daily 
menu. The wise housekeeper will not plan a meal in which all 
starchy or all fatty foods predominate, and she will see to it that 
protein in some form is provided. (See chapter on "Menus," 
page 481.) The protein she will find in cheese, meat, eggs, fish, 
dried legumes, etc., using one or another at practically every 
meal, and being guided in her choice by the market value at 
different seasons and by the tastes of her family. If she is skil- 
ful in preparing the various foodstuffs in appetizing ways, the 
daily menu may be both adequate and pleasing. 

Economy. — ^And, in order that the food be pleasing, it is not 
necessary that it be expensive. The maxim that "the best is 
always the cheapest" does not apply to food. The larger part of 
the price of costlier foods is paid for appearance, flavor or scarcity, 
and while people who can afford them may be justified in buying, 
it is well to remember that the cheaper foods frequently contain as 
much if not more nutriment and with a little care can be made 
just as pleasing. It is the lazy and unskilled cook who pays 
exorbitant prices for food rather than take the trouble to make 
the common foodstuffs appeal to the palate. 

The remedy for the foolish waste of money in buying costly 
foods "will be found," writes Dr. Atwater in a Government Bulle- 
tin, "in a better knowledge of cooking and serving food, and in the 
acceptance of the doctrine that economy is not only respectable 
but honorable." The German housewife's "thrift" may seem a 
trifle sordid at times; but the study of the relative costs of foods 
should not be beneath the dignity of any woman. Housekeeping 
is becoming more and more a matter of science, and the laurels 
are bound to fall to the woman who conducts her household in a 
business-like way. No man, no matter how wealthy he may be, 

5 



THE FINE ART OF COOKERY 



permits needless waste of money in the management of Ms busi- 
ness; no woman should permit waste in the management of the 
household, which is her business. 

"It is common enough," writes Ida M. Tarbell, "to hear women 
arguing that this close grappling with household economy is nar- 
rowing, not worthy of them. ^Vhy keeping track of the cost of 
eggs and butter and calculating how much your income will allow 
you is any more narrowing than keeping track of the cost and 
quality of cotton or wool or iron and calculating how much a mill 
requires, it is hard to see. It is the same kind of problem. More- 
over, it has the added interest of being always an independent 
personal problem. Most men work under the deadening effect of 
impersonal routine. They do that which others have planned and 
for results in which they have no share." 

One point is worth mentioning here, and that is that "ready-to- 
eat" foods, except perhaps in the case of cereals,where the saving 
of fuel is worth considering, are expensive and not always so good 
as the old-fashioned dishes prepared in the old-fashioned way. 
The cook who is exceedingly pressed for time or the housewife who 
does her own cooking may be justified in using instantaneous, 
ready-flavored gelatine, for instance; but the result is seldom so 
good as gelatme prepared by the old method, and the cost is de- 
cidedly greater. Even in the matter of baking powder the house- 
wife may, by making the mixture herself, reduce the cost to ex- 
actly one-fourth of its present market price. 

Economy in fuel is another consideration of first-rate import- 
ance, especially where gas is used. The fireless and steam cookers 
have made possible no inconsiderable saving of fuel, and one, if not 
both, should be a part of the furnishing of every up-to-date kitchen. 
Important as these are, however, the wise planning of meals is still 
more important. It is no economy to buy a cheap cut of meat if 
that cut will require long cooking on a gas stove or in a gas oven; 
better buy one less cheap that can be cooked in a short time — for 
gas is expensive. Care must also be taken not to use the oven 
needlessly and to make the most of its heat. If meat is roasting, 

6 



THE FINE ART OF COOKERY 



plan to bake potatoes at the same time; and do not light the oven 
just to bake potatoes or some vegetable that will cook equally well 
on the top of the stove — say in a steamer. 

These are minor matters, of course, but they all play their part, 
and in many families call for greater attention than they receive. 
The importance of economy should be known by every housewife 
and should be explained to every servant. 

Cleanliness. — One other thing — still more important than 
economy — that must be impressed upon every servant is the neces- 
sity of cleanliness. And care with regard to the food is not of it- 
self sufficient: the kitchen and her own person are almost equally 
important. It is unfortunate that in so many households the cook 
is consigned to the meanest and darkest room in the house and 
denied the use of a bathroom. It is likewise unfortunate that she 
in most cases does not know the value of clean hands, clean floors, 
clean refrigerators, clean pots and pans, etc. 

"Scrupulous cleanliness," says the Bulletin previously quoted, 
"should always be observed in keeping, handling and serving food. 
If ever cleanliness is desirable, it must be in the things we eat, and 
every care should be taken to insure it for the sake of health as well 
as decency. Cleanliness in this connection means not only ab- 
sence of visible dirt, but freedom from undesirable bacteria and 
other minute organisms, and from worms and other parasites. If 
food, raw or cooked, is kept in dirty places, peddled from dirty 
carts, prepared in dirty rooms and in dirty dishes, or exposed to 
foul air, disease germs and other offensive and dangerous sub- 
stances can easily get in." 

Purposes of Cooking. — Cooking, of course, destroys many such 
germs, and that is one reason why cooked foods are better and 
more wholesome than uncooked. Cooking has other important 
purposes too; for it renders food more capable of mastication and 
consequently of digestion. It does this both by changing its actual 
structure and by making it more appetizing, thus stimulating the 
flow of the saliva and the gastric juices. The importance of good 
cooking cannot be overestimated. 

7 



THE FINE ART OF COOKERY 

And while, as we have seen, the careful cooking and serving of 
food are themselves the result of a developed esthetic sense, they 
are at the same time a means of further development. A good 
meal, well cooked, and daintily served, has a certain subtle moral 
effect not to be disregarded in this age of nervous haste and flaunt- 
ing materialism. If we are "but what we eat," we are also in a 
very real sense the product of all the influences that play about us 
as we eat. The child, contented over his morning bowl of oatmeal, 
is not unmindful of the cleanliness and order of the table at which 
he sits, and the scent of the orange or the cocoa may be just as re- 
fining in its influence a^ the fragrance of the honey-suckle wafted 
through the open window. If beautiful surroundings have, as we 
now generally agree, their effect upon the sensitive, impressionable 
nature of the child, the meal to which he comes gladly three times 
a day must play a tremendous part in determining what his future 
character will be. 

Nor is it only the child who is influenced. A poor meal, served 
in slovenly fashion, will upset many a healthy man's temper for 
the day. After all, one's philosophy is largely a matter of what one 
has had for breakfast. 



ENTERTAINING 



So saying, with dispatehful looks in haste. 
She turns, on hospitable thoughts intent — 
What choice to choose for delicacy best. 
What order so contrived as not to mix 
Tastes not well joined, inelegant; but bring 
Taste after taste upheld with kindliest change. 

— ^Milton: Paradise Lost. 



ENTERTAINING 

A CERTAIN amount of entertaining is necessary, even if one 
goes to the extent of believing with Byron that society is 
only a polished horde. 

Formed of two mighty tribes, the bores and bored; 

and to the hostess who does not try to entertain beyond her 
means or her strength, the bringing together of friends should 
be a pleasure. Too- frequently the pleasure is greater on the 
part of guest than of hostess. 

Is this because in the rush of our modern life we have lost 
sight of the beauty of hospitality, which from very earliest times 
has been a sacred thing? We recall pictures of Oriental hospi- 
tality, familiar through the pages of the Bible, so striking and 
beautiful that we have unconsciously made them the standard 
by which the relations of host and guest are to be judged for all 
time. The story of the woman of Shunem who constrained the 
prophet Elisha to eat bread "as oft as he passed by" is enshrined 
in the heart of every true woman. 

Naturally to us the present-day oriental customs seem lavish 
and absurdly formal; they have, perhaps, lost the spirit of that 
olden time in which the bond between host and guest was scarcely 
less holy than that between father and son; at any rate, they do 
not fall in with our occidental ideas of democracy and frankness. 
We can cultivate the fine flower of hospitality without a multi- 
tude of senseless wrappings. The naked flower is all we want; 
we have all known the misery of being "made company of." 

Ceremony, fortunately, is becoming more and more a thing of 
the past — ^not because people are less kind, but because the com- 
plexity of modern life makes simplicity in social relations a relief 

11 



ENTERTAINING 



if not a necessity. A few illustrations will show the difference: 
It is no longer considered necessary for the guests to say that 
they have had a good time when taking leave of a hostess after 
a dinner-party or other entertainment; it is no longer customary 
for the hostess to accompany her lady callers to the front door; 
it is no longer even proper to say "Sir" or "Madam," except, 
perhaps, in addressing a stranger in a public place. 

Elaborate entertainments and a certain degree of formality 
may be necessary occasionally; but one can invite one's friends 
and have pleasant times without a great deal of preparation and 
expense. Hospitality is the prime necessity, and even a twelve- 
course dinner is unpalatable, lacking that golden sauce. 

THE DINNER PARTY 

The dinner takes first rank among entertainments and usually 
involves more or less formality. Invitations are sent out at least 
two weeks in advance of the entertainment and should be an- 
swersd immediately. The formal invitation is engraved; the 
gij-e? it's name, hour and date written in by hand. 

Mr. and Mrs. Henry B. Anderson 
^ request the pleasure of 
Mr. and Mrs. James Brown^s 
company at dinner 
on Wednesday, April the fourteenth 
at eight o'clock 
■L I West Burton Place 
Msrsh the thirty-first 

For a less formal entertainment a note in the first person may 
be sent: 

My dear Mrs. Broicn: 

Will you and Mr. Brown dine with us informally on Thursday 
evening, January the eighteenth, at eight o'clock ? 

Sincerely yours, 

Elizabeth Smith Anderson. 
14 West Burton Place, 
January the fourth. 

12 



JKWTERTAIRmG 



The dinner in this case may be quite as formal as that for which 
the third-person invitation was sent, and evening dress is required. 

For a very informal little dinner an unconventional note is sent 
a week or less before the date set; and dinner dress is not required. 

For the formal dinner, guests are expected to arrive at the hour 
appointed and courtesy does not demand that the hostess wait 
more than fifteen minutes for a tardy guest. At large dinners 
each gentleman finds on a tray in the dressing-room a small 
addressed envelope containing a card on which is written the 
name of the lady whom he is to escort to dinner and "R" or "L" 
in one corner to indicate on which side of the table they are to 
sit. If he does not know the lady, the hostess should see that he 
is presented to her. 

Introductions 

The hostess stands near the door and receives the guests, making 
such introductions as are convenient. In general, the "roof 
introduction" is considered sufficient — especially at large dinners. 
Introductions, however, should be given wherever possible, for 
they make intercourse among one's guests easier. Where one 
knows to whom one is speaking one can sometimes more readily 
find subjects of interest. 

On the other hand, it is not considered good form for a hostess 
to interrupt a conversation between guests for the purpose of 
making an introduction, or to introduce a guest upon his entrance 
to more than one other at a time. 

In making an introduction the gentleman is always presented 
to the lady, and the names should be pronounced as distinctly as 
possible: nothing is more discourteous to one's guests than a mut- 
tered introduction. The ordinary form is: "Mrs. Brown, allow 
me to present Mr. Smith." In the same way a young woman is 
presented to an older one, an unmarried woman to a matron, a 
young man to an older one, though these rules are sometimes 
modified in deference to age or station. For instance, a young, 
vmmarried woman would be presented to a very old gentleman or 
to a dignitary of Church or State. 

In introducing two women the form mentioned in the preceding 
paragraph is used, or simply "Mrs. Bro^\ai, this is Mrs. Smith." 
The latter form is preferable where there is doubt as to which is 
entitled to the presentation. 

The tactful hostess usually adds to any introduction some 
remark which will enable the guests to converse more readily. 
2 13 



ENTERTAINING 



She may say, for instance, "Mrs. Brown, allow me to present 
Mrs. Smith, who has just returned from London"; or," Mrs. Smith, 
this is Mrs. Brown: two such ardent bridge players should know 
each other." There are very few persons who will not be grate- 
ful for some such hint. 

Seating the Guests 

The servant watches the number of guests and when all have 
arrived announces dinner. Or, in case of a belated guest, he 
waits for a signal from the hostess. When dinner is announced, 
the host offers his right arm to the lady who is to sit at his right. 
The other couples follow; then, last, the hostess with the gentle- 
man who is to sit at her right. 

Guests are enabled to find their places easily by means of " place 
cards," on which the name of each guest is distinctly written. 
Confusion in seating the guests is thus avoided, and it can be 
arranged to have congenial persons near each other. 

The host and hostess may sit at the ends of the table or in the 
middle of each side. The lady who is to be especially honored 
sits on the host's right, she who is to be honored next, on his left. 
Similarly two gentlemen are honored by seats on the right and left 
of the hostess. 

The hostess should, as far as possible, bring together only guests 
who "mix well," and should select the dinner partners tactfully. 
Two very quiet people should not be seated together, or two 
who have very decided opinions, or two who are known to be 
uncongenial. The dinner should be a feast of good things other 
than food, and conversation should be as entertaining as possible. 
Upon host and hostess, of course, devolves the duty of keeping 
conversation alive, though the guests are expected to do their 
part. Many a hostess has saved the day by a bon mot or a tactful 
change of subject. Some women are born hostesses : most women 
can be made, or, rather, can make themselves successful host- 
esses. The chief essentials are tact, which is the saving grace of all 
women, the ability to be interested in many things, and true 
kindliness. 

Courtesy, after all— that is, true courtesy— is a matter of the 
heart, and is not dependent upon any knowledge of social usages. 
Some women, notably poor conversationaHsts, are still very 
charmmg hostesses. In them thoughtfulness and tact make up 
for lack of brilliancy. 

One thing, however, is of first importance for the hostess' 

U 



ENTERTAINING 



peace of mind. All the arrangements for the entertainment must 
be carefully plamied, so that the dinner will proceed with the 
smoothness of clock-work and that the hostess may be as a guest 
at her own table. Servants should be thoroughly instructed 
beforehand, and everything should be in readiness when the guests 
arrive. 

Menu and Table 

In arranging the menu too much should not be attempted and 
each course should be in pleasing contrast to the last. Except for 
a very elaborate dinner, raw oysters, a clear soup, fish, one entree, 
a roast with potatoes and one other vegetable, salad with cheese 
straws or crackers and cheese, an ice, fruit and black coffee should 
be sufficient. Butter is never served except at the informal 
family dinner. 

The table should have its centerpiece of growing ferns or flowers, 
and two or four candlesticks with wax candles and pretty shades. 
(No edibles, mth the exception of bonbons, salted nuts or crystal- 
lized fruits in compotiers, appear upon the table.) All the china 
used in the same course should match wherever possible; but a 
different set of plates are permissible for each course. 

A supply of extra silver should be laid out in convenient fashion 
on the sideboard, and finger-bowls, dessert plates, after-dinner 
coffee cups and spoons should be in readmess on the side-table. 
Water in the finger-bowls should be warm, with perhaps a dainty 
flower or a leaf of rose geranium floating on the sxu'face. 

SKELETON MENU FOR FULL COURSE DINNER 

Shellfish — on ice with lemon — liglit oyster crackers. 

Clear Soup — in soup plates, half full — thick slices of bread or roU folded in the 

napkin. 
Hobs d'oeuvhes — olives, celery, radishes, etc. — passed after soup is served. 
FiSH~-with appropriate sauce, potato balls and cucumbers if possible. 
Entree— patties, timbale of chicken, or creamed dishes in paper cases (bread 

passed). 
Meat — with appropriate sauce, jelly, potatoes, one vegetable and fruit punch. 
Game— small birds, whole; others, in halves or slices— varying accompaniments. 
Salad — served with the game — Brie, Roquefort or cream cheese and crackers. 
Hot Pudding — with lemon sauce. 

Glac£ — ^ice, ice cream or frozen dessert — with sweet wafers. 
Dessert— nuts, fruits, bonbons, crackers, cheese. 
Coffee — black, served with sugar alone. 

X5 



ENTERTAINING 



COMPLETE MENU 

Blue Points 
Wafees Hohsehadish 

Con80mm:6 
Oliveb Ceieet Salted Almonds 

Baked Fillets of Halibtjt, Hollandaise Sauce 

Potato Balls Cucdmbees 

Swedish Timbales with Chicken 

Spring L.vmb 

Mint Sauce New Potatoes in Ckeam Aspaeagus Tips 

Orange Pekoe Punch 
Roasted Grouse Lettuce, French Dressing 

Plum Pudding, Lemon Sat'ce 
Maple Mousse Sweet Wafees 

Fruit Roquefort Nuts Bonbons 

Caf^ Noib 

HINTS ON SERVING 

1. Food should always be set down before guests from the right. 

2. When a dish is presented from which a guest is to help him- 
self, it should be passed to the left. 

3. When a course is finished, the plate should be removed from 
the left. 

4. Plates should be before the guests when they take seats at 
the table and when one plate is removed it should be immediately 
replaced by another. 

5. At the right of the plate have oyster fork, soup spoon and 
knives in the order of use, the one first needed farthest from the 
plate. On the left lay the forks in the order of use, the one first 
needed farthest from the plate. Let the bowls of the spoons and 
the tines of the forks be turned upward and the cutting edges of 
the kni^^es toward the plate. Place the napkin upon the plate 
or at the left of the forks, with a small thick piece of bread or 
dinner roll inserted between the folds. The napkin should be 
simply folded, either standing upright in a sort of triangular 
form or lying flat with the top part creased and turned back 
diagonally and the bread tucked under the fold. 

6. Set the glass for water above the plate near the center of 
the cover. Each glass should be filled with cracked ice before 
the water is poured. 

7. Before the dessert is served all the plates, small silver, salt 

16 



ENTERTAINING 



and pepper shakers, and all glasses that will not be used again 
should be removed. Then the table should be "crumbed," using 
a silver crumb knife and a plate. 

8. Spoons or knives and forks for the sweet coiu-se are usually 
supplied after the table is cleared. Spoons or knives are laid to 
the right of the plate; forks to the left. If forks only are called 
for they are placed at the right. 

9. Black coffee in small cups (for which sugar is passed) is 
the last course, and should precede the finger-bowls unless the 
coffee is to be served to the ladies ia the drawing-room. In that 
case the finger-bowls should be placed before the ladies leave the 
table. 

10. If the coffee is to be served in the drawing-room the wait- 
ress covers a large tray with a white napkin, arranges the filled 
cups, smoking hot, upon it, and carries it into the room where 
the guests are assembled. Many hostesses prefer this way of 
serving. 

Where there is only one pair of hands to do both cookmg and 
serving still less formality should be observed. The service plate 
should be omitted; all the knives and forks to be used should 
be upon the table, with salts and peppers at the corners of the table, 
or one for every two persons. Bread-and-butter plates, contain- 
ing butter-ball, and a small butter knife should be placed at the 
left of the cover before dinner is announced, and a dinner roll 
folded into the napkin. Glasses should be filled with ice-water 
and everything needed should be on the side table before the guests 
are seated. The plates for each course served on the table should 
be placed in a low pile, not more than three or four at a time, in 
front of the host or hostess. As each is filled the maid will lift 
it to her tray, carry and place it before the guest. 

INVITATIONS IN GENERAL 

Invitations to luncheon are similar to those used for dinner, 
although, as the entertainment is generally less formal, the 
engraved invitation is much less frequent. 

Invitations for afternoon or evening entertamments vary 
according to the number of guests and the degree of formality 
desired For smaU, informal affairs the hostess simply uses her 
visiting card (or one engraved a trifle larger), writmg m the lower 
left-hand corner "Cards," "Musicale," or whatever the enter- 
tainment is to be. and under it the date.and hour. She may wnte 

J7 



ENTERTAINING 



under her ovm name "To meet Miss Mary Jones" if the enter 
tainment is given in honor of Miss Jones. 

For informal entertainments, however, the cordial Httle note 
of invitation is preferred by many, perhaps because it seems a 
more direct and personal appeal. It is a subtle compliment, 
sometimes, well calculated to make a diffident invited guest feel 
that she is really wanted. 

THE INFORMAL DINNER 

The informal dinner to which only a few guests are invited, is 
served almost like th formal dinner; but where there is only one 
waitress it is customary to do a good deal of the serving on the 
table. 

For this simple dinner, soup, a roast, two vegetables, a salad, 
dessert and coffee amply suffice. 

Soup may be served by the hostess from a tureen. The 
waitress takes one soup-plat, at a time from the sideboard, placing 
it in front of the hostess; when it is filled she passes it to the guest 
and brings another Fish may be served by the host and passed 
in the same manner as the soup. The roast is carved by the host; 
but entrees, if included in the menu, are served from the side. 
Vegetables and sauces should be placed on the side-table and 
passed to each guest when required. The salad may be brought 
in on individual plates or served on the table by either host or 
hostess. The dessert is served by the hostess, and the coffee, unless 
brought in cups from the kitchen, is poured by her. Bonbons 
and relishes are usuaUy on the table. 

AFTERNOON TEA 

The_ serving of afternoon tea with its dainty accompaniment of 
sandwiches or cake is coming into ever greater popularity, M'^hether 
at an entertainment to which cards for "Afternoon tea at four 
o'clock" are sent or during the customary afternoon calls. In 
the former case, naturally, the refreshments are usuaUy more 
elaborate, though in no case should they be heavy, as dinner is 
so close at hand. 

For the small reunion of friends the tea should be made and 
served by the hostess in the dra-nang-room or living-room or in 
summer weather out of doors. Simple sandwiches and cakes are 
served with hot tea, coffee or chocolate, though tea is preferable. 



ENTERTAINING 



because less rich and held by most women in high esteem. As 
Edmund Waller puts it: 

Tea does our fancy aid 

Repress those vapors which the head invade. 

And keeps that palace of the soul serene. 

In hot weather, however, iced coffee, tea or punch is usually 
more acceptable. No service or assistance is necessary except 
to bring in the required articles ; the hostess or a friend makes the 
tea and the guests help each other and themselves. 

For the more pretentious afternoon tea, refreshments are served 
in the dining-room, from a table made beautiful with flowers, 
lights and tempting viands. At one end of the table is usually a 
tea-service and at the other a service for chocolate; each is pre- 
sided over by a friend of the hostess. The refreshments include 
sandwiches, fancy cakes, olives, bonbons, etc. These are passed 
to the standing guests by waitresses or young girls, also friends 
of the hostess. Napkins are a convenience, but not a necessity; 
sandwiches and cakes are usually placed on the saucer or a plate 
under it. Frappe is sometimes served in addition to the other 
delicacies. 

THE EVENING COLLATION 

Evening refreshments may be of infinite variety — from the very 
simple to the most elaborate — without regard to appetite or 
digestion. The menu may include hot bouillon, hot entrees, 
sandwiches, cold entrees, salads, coffee, salted nuts, ices and 
cakes. Coffee may be served in teacups with the supper or in 
after-dinner cups as a last course. The second way is necessarily 
customary where guests are not seated at tables. 

Only the daintiest of china, glass and silver shoidd appear on 
the table, and all crowding should be avoided: dishes can be 
replenished from the pantry if necessary. The table may be simply 
or elaborately decorated according to the kind of entertainment, 
the season, and the inclination of the host. Candlelight is to be 
preferred to any other, both because it is softer and because the 
candlesticks assist in making the table pretty. 



19 



ENTERTAINING 



APPETIZERS 



APPETIZERS 

IT is customary to serve at the beginning of a meal a dish whiJi, 
while it may have Httle food value, whets the appetite aad 
stimulates the flow of digestive juices. At the formal dinner 
this is ordinarily raw oysters or clams in the shell, or caviar or 
anchovy canapes; but for other meals the cocktail is coming into 
ever wider use. 

The fruit cocktails are acceptable to many people, and at 
limcheons frequently form part of the decorative scheme. The 
cocktail glass should be set on a small linen or paper doily on a 
plate. 

OYSTER COCKTAIL No. 1 

12 oysters 1 saltspoon salt 

1 teaspoon grated horseradish Dash of red pepper 

1 teaspooa tomato catsup 1 teaspoon tabasco 

2 tablespoons lemon juice 

Put three oysters in each glass. Mix the horseradish and sea- 
sonings and pour the sauce over the oysters, 

OYSTER COCKTAIL No. 2 

12 oysters 1 tablespoon tomato catsup 

1 tablespoon lemon juice Vz saltspoon paprika 

1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce 1 saltspoon salt 
5 drops tabasco 

Put three oysters in each glass. Make a sauce of the other in- 
gredients and pour over the oysters. 

LOBSTER COCKTAIL 

Cut the lobster into small pieces; mix well with tomato catsup, 
lemon juice and salt. Serve in cocktail glasses. 

23 



APPETIZERS "^"°"'' -"■■ " 



Family of Four 

CLAM COCKTAIL 

Follow either of the recipes for oyster cocktails, using little neck 
clams. 

GRAPE-FRUIT COCKTAIL 

Cut the grape-fruit into halves, crosswise, and scoop out the pulp, 
rejecting the white inner skin as well as the seeds. Clean the shells ; 
cut the edges with a sharp knife into scallops and throw them into 
cold water. Set the pulp on the ice. At serving time put a tea- 
spoon of cracked ice in the bottom of each shell; fill with the pulp, 
mixed thoroughly with powdered sugar and white graphs, if de- 
sired; and place a maraschino cherry or bit of bright-colored jelly 
in the center of each. Lay on paper doilies or surroimd with bits 
of asparagus fern. 

MIXED FRUIT COCKTAILS 

Cut into small pieces as many different kinds of fruit as you have 
in the house; sweeten to taste and set on the ice to chill. At serv- 
ing time fill the cocktail glasses and place a maraschino cherry or 
ripe strawberry on the top of each. 

Fresh or canned pineapple is one of the most refreshing fruits 
for cocktails. 

RASPBERRY COCKTAIL 

Mash a pint of ripe, red currants; strain them through cheese- 
cloth; pour the juice over a pint of red raspberries and set on the 
ice to chill. At serving time sweeten to taste and pour into the 
glasses, putting a teaspoon of powdered sugar on the top of each. 

STRAWBERRY COCKTAIL 

Slice five or six large strawberries into each glass and squeeze 
over them the juice of an orange. At serving time add a heaping 
teaspoon of powdered sugar and a tablespoon of shaved ice. 

PINEAPPLE AND BANANA COCKTAIL 

Take equal parts of banana and fresh or canned pineapple; cut 
into small cubes and cover with lemon or pineapple juice. Serve 
in glasses or orange shells placed on autumn leaves or sprays of 
green fern. 

24 



^'Sufo'f°L''ur APPETIZERS 

PEACH COCKTAIL 

Fill thfe glasses with sliced peaches; cover with orange or lemon 
Juice; sweeten to taste; add a little shaved ice and serve. 
Apricot and cherry cocktails may be made in the same way. 

AMBROSIA 

Fill the glasses with alternate layers of sliced orange and cocoar- 
nut; cover with powdered sugar and place a maraschino cherry 
on the top of each. 

CAVIAR CANAPES 

6 squares toast _ _ 1 teaspoon chopped parsley 

6 teaspoons Russian caviar 1 teaspoon chopped onion 

1 hard-boiled egg 

Cut the bread about one-quarter of an inch thick and two inches 
square (or round) and after it is toasted spread over each slice a 
teaspoon of ice-cold caviar. Mix the other ingredients; spread 
the mixture over the caviar and serve with quarters of lemon. 

ANCHOVY CANAPES 

Cut the bread as for caviar canapes and spread with anchovy 
paste. Chop separately the yolks and whites of hard-boiled eggs 
and cover the canapes, dividing them into quarters, with anchovies 
split in two lengthwise, and using yolks and whites in alternate 
quarters. 

CHEESE CANAPES 

1 cup grated cheese Dash of red pepper 

1 teaspoon salt 6 slices buttered bread 

Cut the bread into circles, diamonds or squares, butter them 
lightly and brown by placing in the oven or frying in deep fat. 
Cover each with a thick layer of the grated cheese to which the 
seasoning has been added. Bake in the oven until the cheese is 
thoroughly melted and serve at once. 

HAM CANAPES 

V2 cup minced ham 1 teaspoon chopped parsley 

2 tablespoons butter 6 slices buttered bread 

Mix the ham, butter and parsley to a smooth paste; prepare 
the bread as for cheese canapes; spread with the mixture and serve. 

25 



ATiPTrTTyirPCI Planned for a 

nXrira 1 iXir/K.O FamUy of Four 



28 



SOUPS 



SOUPS 

SOUPS are wholesoine and palatable and should form part oi 
even the informal home dinner whenever possiVjle. They are 
also excellent luncheon dishes 

It is a good plan to have some sort ot vegetable or meat stock 
always at hand, as this renders the making of soup both easy and 
economical. With milk at hand, cream soups are likcM'ise easily 
made. 

MEAT STOCK 

To make good soup some kind of meat stock is almost essential. 
Instruct the butcher to deliver all bones and trimmings removed 
from roasts ; and save all meats and gravies left over from previous 
meals. By so doing soup may be at once economical and good. 

To every pound of meat and bone use one quart of cold water. 
Cut the meat into pieces and ask the butcher to crush the large 
bones, so that the gelatine and fat may be fully extracted. Put all 
in a covered kettle on the back of the stove. ^Vhen the water be- 
comes red bring the kettle forward and let it heat slowly. Keep 
the water below the boiling point for three or four hours. If more 
water is needed, add boiling water. It is not necessary to remove 
the scum that rises. 

Stock should be prepared at least one day before it is to be used, 
so that the fat on the top may harden and be removed. Do not 
remove the fat until it is necessary, however, as it aids in keeping 
the stock sweet. 

VEGETABLE STOCK 

1 carrot 1 tablespoon sugar 

1 onion 4 tablespoons oUve oil 

1 stalk celery 2 quarts cold water 

2 turnips 2 bay leaves 

2 tomatoes Salt and pepper 

Chop the carrot, onion, celery, turnips and tomatoes very fine. 
Put the sugar in a kettle over the fire, and when it is brown add 

s 29 



Ci^TTDO Planned for a 

O^J UirO FamUy of Four 

the olive oil and the vegetables. Add the water and season to 
taste. Let it simmer for one or two hours; strain and stand aside 
to cool. 

CREAM STOCK 

1 pint milk 1 tablespoon butter 

1 tablespoon flour Vi teaspoon salt 

Red or black pepper 

Melt the butter over the fire and add the flour, being careful not 
to let it brown. Add the milk gradually, stirring constantly to 
prevent lumps; then add the seasoning. 

This cream sauce is used instead of stock as the foundation for 
many soups. 

CONSOMI/LE 

2 pounds lean beaf 1 stalk celery 

1 small knuckle veal 1 small carrot 

2 tablespoons butter 1 bay leaf 

1 small onion 2 quarts cold water 

The under part of the round of beef is the best for this soup, 
though any lean portions will do. Cut the beef and veal into 
small pieces and brown them in the butter over a hot fire. Add 
the cold water, onion, celery, carrot and bay leaf; simmer slowly 
for five or six hours in a covered kettle. Take from the fire; cool; 
remove the fat; strain; reheat and serve. 

BEEF BOUILLON 

6 poimds beef and bone 2 quarts water 

Pepper and salt 

Cut and break the beef and bone, and put it in the water, letting 
it simmer for five or six hours. Then cool and strain through a 
sieve, removing all fatty matter. Reheat, seasoning to taste with 
pepper and salt. 

CfflCKEN BROTH 

1 chicken 1/2 cup rice 

1 quart cold water 1 cup water 

Salt and pepper 

Cut the chicken into small pieces and place it in a deep earthen 
dish; add the quart of water; cover it and set over a kettle of 

30 



Planned for & tJ/^Tmo 

Family of Four OUUr'b 

boiling water, letting it steam until the meat of the chicken has 
become very tender. Strain off the broth and let it stand over 
night. _ In the morning remove the fat and return the liquid to 
the original earthen dish. Steam the rice iu the cup of water until 
it is soft; add it to the broth and steam the whole from one to two 
hours longer. 

CLAM BOUILLON 

1 dozen clams in shells 1 pint mslk ^ 

2 cups water Vz tablespoon butter 

Salt and red pepper 

Scrub the clams and put them in a covered vessel over the fire 
in the water. Heat the milk separately. Boil the clams until the 
shells open; fill bouillon cups half full of broth; then pour in the 
milk, to which the butter and seasoning have been added. 



OYSTER BOUILLON 

25 oysters 1 pint milk 

1 cup water V2 

Salt and red pepper 

Wash the oysters; chop them fine; cover with water or oyster 
juice and cook in a double boiler for one hour, closely covered; 
strain through a sieve; add the milk, separately heated, and the 
butter and seasoning. Serve in bouillon cups. 



OYSTER SOUP No. 1 

25 oysters and juice Salt and pepper 

1 pint milk 1 hard boiled e^ 

1 ounce butter 1 soda cracker rolled 



Boil the milk and set it aside. Bring the oyster juice to a boil 
and remove the scum. Put the oysters over the fire with the juice 
and the butter; let them simmer until the edges begin to curl; 
add the boiled milk; bring all to a boU and add the seasoning- 
salt and pepper to taste. Mix the cracker and celery with the egg, 
finely chopped; put these into a tureen and pour the soup over 
them. 

31 



O/^rmc" ' Planned tot a 

bUUl'O FamUy of Four 

OYSTER SOUP No. 2 

2S oysters and jtiice 1 pint cream stock 

Drain the oysters through a colander; strain the juice through 
a fine sieve; bring to a boil ; skim; and when clear add the oysters, 
washing them first to remove bits of shell. Let them cook slowly 
until the edges begin to curl; add the cream stock and serve. 

CLAM SOUP 

25 small clams Vi teaspoon chopped parsley 

1 pint milk 1 rolled cracker 

Pinch of mace 2 tablespoons butter 

1 hard-boiled egg Vz teaspoon flour 

Wash the clam shells very clean; place them in a pan in the 
oven for about five minutes, or until the shells open; then remove 
them from the shells, saving all the juice. Unless the clami are 
small chop them very fine. Boil the mil]<; add the juice, the 
mace, parsley, egg, rolled cracker, and the butter mixed with the 
flour. Last of all add the clams; bring to a boil and serve. 

CHILE BISQUE 

4 sweet chile peppers 1 egg 

1/2 cup boiled rice Vi cup cream 

Tabasco and salt i pint hot millr 

Remove the seeds and veins from the peppers; boil and press 
the pulp through a colander. To this add a cup of boiled rice, 
mashed smooth. Season highly with tabasco and salt. Beat 
the egg; add the cream, then the hot milk, and pour all into the 

bisque. 

CREAM OF POTATO 

2 medium-sized potatoes 1 bay leaf 

% tablespoop chopped onion 1 sprig parsley 

1 pint cream stock 

Pare the potatoes and let them soak in cold water for half an 
hour; then put them in boiling water with the bay leaf and onion, 
and when soft drain off the water and mash, saving the water and 
returning the mashed potatoes to it. Strain through a sieve and 
add the cream stock slowly. Just before serving add the parsley, 
finely chopped. 

32 



riuimsa lor a SOUPS 

Family of Four JV^UX-Q 

CREAM OF TOMATO 

I pint stewed or canned tomatoes 1 tablespoon sugar 

1 pint cream stock Pinch of baking soda 

Heat the tomatoes ; strain and add sugar and a pinch of baking 
soda. At the moment of serving slir in the boiling cream sauce, 
very slowly to prevent curdling. A spoonful of whipped cream 
may be served on the top of each plate if desired. 

CREAM OF PEA 

I cup cooked or canned peas 1 sprig mint 

1 cup water Vz bay leaf 

1 tablespoon chopped onion 1 teaspoon sugar 

1 tablespoon butter 1 pint cream stock 

Brown the onion in the butter; add it to the peas, mint, bay 
leaf, sugar and water and let all simmer slowly for one half hour. 
Strain through a fine sieve; add the cream sauce and serve. 

PEA-POD SOUP 

2 quarts pea pods 1 cup shredded lettuce 
1 quart water 1 pint cream stock 

Put the pea pods in the water over the fire, adding the lettuce 
if you have it, although this is not necessary. Boil down to one 
pint; strain and add to the cream sauce. 

Left-over cooked peas, pressed through a colander to remove 
the skins, may be added if desired. 

CREAM OF CELERY 

1 stalk celery V2. tablespoon chopped onion 

1 pint boiling water V2 bay leaf 

14 teaspoon salt 3 cups cream stock 

Wash and scrape the celery; cut it into half -inch pieces and 
cook with the water, salt, onion and bay leaf until thoroughly 
tender. Mash in the water in which it has boiled; add the cream 
sauce and serve. 

CREAM OF ASPARAGUS 

Proceed as with cream of celery soup, substituting one halt 
bundle of fresh asparagus or an equal amount of canned for the 

33 



Cr^TTtJC Planned for a 

0\J KJfO Farailv of Four 



Family of Four 



stalk of celery. Or, the tips of a bundle of asparagus may be cut 
oif for table use and the remainder used for soup. In either case 
the asparagus ^tIII be better if mashed through a colander, thus 
removing the woody portions. 



CREAM OF CORN No. 1 

3 ears corn 1 bay leaf 

Water to cover the com 1 pint cream stock 

Run a sharp knife down through the center of each row of ker- 
nels, and with the back of a knife press out the pulp, leaving the 
husk on the cob. Break the cobs and put them on to boil in suf- 
ficient cold water to cover them. Boil thirty minutes and strain 
the liquor. Return the Hquor to the fire, and v/hen boiling add 
the corn pulp and bay leaf. Cook fifteen minutes ; add the cream 
sauce and serve. 



CREAM OF CORN No. 2 

1 pint canned com 1 bay leaf 

1/2 tablespoon chopped onion 1 pint cream stock 

Cook the corn, onion and bay leaf for fifteen minutes; add the 
cream sauce and serve. 



CREAM OF SPINACH 

1 quart spinach 1^ table'^ooon chopped omda 

1 pint cream stock 

Wash the spinach thoroughly; throw it into a dry kettle and 
place over the fire, stirring until the spinach is wilted. Drain the 
spinach, saving the water; chopit very fine; return it to the water; 
add the onion and cook until thoroughly done, adding a little more 
water if necessary. Mash in the same water; strain and add the 
juice to the hot cream sauce. 



CREAM OF LETTUCE 

Follow the recipe for cream of spinach, substituting one head of 
lettuce for the quart of spinach. 

34 



Planned for a OOTTDQ 

Familv of Four OV^UiTO 



Family of Four 



MOCK TURTLE SOUP 



1 calf's head 1 lemon 

3 quarts water 1 tablespoon WorcestersMre sauce 

6 potatoes 2 tablespoons butter 

2 hard-boiled eggs Vi tablespoon sweet marjoram 

Salt and pepper 

Clean the calf's head thoroughly and boil it in the water until 
tender; then pick the meat from the bones and cut it into small 
pieces. Add the potatoes cut into small dice, the eggs, chopped, 
the lemon juice, Worcestershire sauce and butter: season with 
salt, pepper and sweet marjoram; use drop dumplings if desired. 

GUMBO SOUP 

1 poxmd beef 1 small carrot 

1 quart okras 1 large tomato 

1 small onion Pinch of cloves 

1 sprig parsley Salt and pepper 

2 quarts cold water 

Cut the beef into small pieces; wash the okras and cut them in 
slices. Slice the onion; chop the parsley; grate the carrot; and 
cut the tomato into small pieces. Add the water and seasoning 
and bring all to a boil. Set aside to cool; skim off the hardened 
fat; return to the fire and let simmer slowly for four hoiu-s, closely 
covered. 

BEEF SOUP 



2 pounds shin of beef 
4 tablespoons butter 
2 onions 


1 teaspoon sweet marjoram 

2 whole allspices 
2 whole cloves 


2 carrots 


Pinch of mace 


1 stalk celery 

2 bay leaves 


Salt and pepper 
2 quarts cold water 



1 tablespoon cornstarch 

Cut the beef into small pieces; put it in a pan with the butter 
and brov>Ta over a hot fire. Take out the meat and put it in a large 
kettle with the onions, carrots and celery all chopped fine; add 
the seasoning and water; bring to a boil and skim well. Set aside 
to simmer, closely covered, six or eight hours; then strain and set 
away. Next day remove all the fat from the top and boil half an 
hour. Thicken with a tablespoon of cornstarch mixed with a little 
cold water; boil three minutes and serve. 

35 



^ ,^ »T-^^ ^ Planned for a 

SOUPS Family of Four 

MUTTON SOUP 

2 pounds neck of mutton 1 onion 

2 quarts cold water 1 tomato 

1 turnip 1 tablespoon pearl barley 

Salt and pepper 

Put the mutton in a kettle with the water, vegetables sliced, 
barley and seasoning. Bring to a boil; skim off the fat and scum; 
place at the back of the stove to simmer slowly for three hours. 
Keep the vessel closely covered. 

TURKEY-BONE SOUP 

Turkey bones 2 carrots 

Water to cover bones 1 tablespoon barley 

1 onion 1 tablespoon rice 

1 stalk celery 1 sprig parsley 

3 potatoes Pepper and salt 

Put the turkey bones in a kettle and cover them with water; 
boil slowly for three hours; add the other ingredients, chopping 
the onions, parsley and celery and cutting the potatoes and carrots 
into small dice. Boil imtil the vegetables are tender- season to 
taste and serve. 

CHEESE SOUP 

3 cups milk 1 cup grated cheese 

1 tablespoon flour Salt and paprika 

Heat the milk in a double boiler, reserving a little to mix with 
the flour; add this and cook thoroughly. When reauy to serve 
add the cheese and seasoning. 

OX-TAH. SOUP 

1 ox-tail 1 stalk celery 
Vi tablespoon drippings 1 bunch parsley 

2 quarts cold water 2 cloves 

1 onion 2 peppercorns 

1 teaspoon salt 

Cut ox-tail into pieces, separating at the joints. Brown the 
onion in the drippings of salt pork. Put the meat in a kettle with 
the water; whesi it reaches the boiling point add the spices, the 
onion and the celery and parsley finely chopped. Let simmer for 
four hours; strain and cool and remove the grease. Reheat; add 
the salt and serve. 

36 




HOW TO SPLIT AND DRESS LOBSTER 




SOLE COD FLOUNDER 



Planned for a Cr^TTDG 

Famllv nf Four OV-'UX'O 



Family of Four 



PEPPER POT 



3 pounds tripe 1 chopped onion 

2 quarts water Vi tablespoon sw 

Small knuckle of veal 1/2 bunch parsley and thyme 

Water to cover veal Salt and pepper 

2 potatoes Dumplings 

Boil the tripe for six hours the day previous to using and save 
the liquor. Boil the knuckle of veal in a separate vessel in suf- 
ficient water to cover it; when the meat separates from the bones 
strain and add the liquor to the tripe liquor with the seasoning, 
potatoes and onion. Cut the tripe into pieces half an inch square, 
and the potatoes likewise. Boil all together for fifteen or twenty 
minutes, adding the dumplings ten minutes before serving time. 

MULLAGATAWNY SOUP 

1 tablespoon beef drippings 2 cloves 

1 large onion 2 peppercorns 

2 quarts stock 1/2 teaspoon curry powder 

2 tablespoons chopped carrot Vz teaspoon salt 

3 tablespoons chopped celery 2 tablespoons boiled rice 

1/2 lemon y~ cup cooked chicken or veal 

Slice the onion and fry it brown in the drippings; put it into 
the stock, together with the carrot, celery, lemon juice, cloves and 
peppercorns. Mix the curry powder and salt to a smooth paste 
with a little water, and add that also. Simmer one hour, strain 
and cool; remove the fat; add the chicken and rice; reheat and 
serve. 

CHICKEN GUMBO 

1 tablespoon butter 3 small tomatoes 

1 tablespoon chopped onion Less desirable pieces chicken 

1 quart sliced ofaa Flour 

2 quarts hot water Salt and pepper 

Brown the onion in the butter; add the okra and fry until the 
okra will rope from a spoon. Stir constantly. Poiu- all into 
the hot water and boil down to a quart. Scald the tomatoes; 
peel them; cut into small pieces and add to the soup. Next 
sprinkle with salt, pepper and flour the wings, back, neck and other 
undesirable portions of a chicken and fry them a light brown. Lift 
from the frying pan with a fork and add to the soup one half hour 
before serving. 

37 



C/^TTTi Planned for a 

OLIUr'BS Family of Fou.- 

JULIENNE SOUP 

1 quart stock 1 small onion 

1 small carrot 1 small tomato 

1 small turnip 1 quart boiling water 

1 small potato 1 tablespoon barley 

Salt and pepper 

Cut the vegetables into small pieces, add the water, barley and 
seasoning and let all simmer slowly until the vegetables are tender. 
Add the stock; bring to a boil and serve. 



ECONOMICAL SOUP 

1 quart stock 2 cloves 

1 onion 2 peppercorns 

1 small carrot 1 bay leaf 

1 teaspoon salt 1 sprig parsley 

Water to cover vegetables Pinch of mace 

Leaves and root of celery stalk 

Chop the vegetables and cook them together with the herbs 
and seasoning in water sufficient to cover them. \Mien done, add 
the stock and bring to a boil. 



BARLEY SOUP 

1 quart stock 1 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons barley 1 quart water 

V^ saltspoon pepper 

Wash the barley and soak it in a quart of water; cook in the 
same water until tender; drain and add with the seasoning to the 
boiling stock. 

Rice, tapioca or sago may be substituted for the barley. 

VERMICELLI SOUP 

% cup vermicelli I teaspoon Worcestershire sauce 

1 quart stock y^ teaspoon salt 

% saltspoon pepper 

Cook the vermicelli about ten minutes in boiling salted water; 
drain and add to the boiling stock, together with the seasoning. 

Macaroni may be substituted for the vermicelli if desired; but 
it will have to cook longer — about half an hour. 

38 



Planned for a O/^TTTIO 

Family of Four OKJUirO 



NOODLE SOUP 

1 quart stock 1/2 teaspoon salt 

Noodles Y2 saltspoon pepper 

Bring the stock to a boil; add the noodles and seasoning; let 
both boil together for about five minutes, and serve. The noodles 
may be made according to the following directions : 

1 egg 

1/2 teaspoon salt 

SufiScient flour to make stifi dough 

Beat the egg; add the salt; then the flour, suflScient to make a 
very stiff dough. Knead; toss on a sHghtly floured board, and 
roU as thin as possible. Cover with a towel and set aside until the 
surface is dry; then roll like a jelly roll and cut off thin slices. 
Dry, and when needed cook twenty minutes in boiling salted water. 
Drain and add to soup. 

BLACK-BEAN SOUP 

1 pint pink kidney beans 1 Bermuda onion, chopped 

1 quart liquid 1 button garlic 

J^ cup butter, oil or beef fat 1 tomato, sliced 

Soak the beans over night and boil them until tender ; mash 
with potato masher and return to the water in which they were 
cooked, of which there should be about a quart. B,un this puree 
through a sieve to free it from hulls. Fry the onion and garlic in 
the fat until brown; adding the tomato. When well cooked strain 
through a colander; add to the puree; let simmer for ten minutes, 
and serve. 

TOMATO SOUP 

1 piut stewed or canned tomatoes 1 bay leaf 

1 pint water or stock 1 tablespoon butter 

1 small onion 1 tablespoon flour 

Salt and pepper 

Put the tomatoes over the fire with the water, onion and bay 
leaf; cook slowly for one half hour; strain through a fine sieve; 
wash the saucepan; return the tomatoes to it and put again over 
the fire. Add the butter and flour well rubbed together; stir until 
smooth; season to taste and serve with Croutons. 



SOUPS Planned for A 



Family of Four 



VEGETABLE SOUP No. 1 

lYz ounces butter 1 cup beans or split peas 

1 small onion 2 quarts water 

' '2 carrot Pinch of mace 

Vz stalk celety I dozen allspice 

Salt and pepper 






Put the butter in a large kettle over a slow fire. While it is 
melting slice the onion, cut the" carrot and celery into small pieces, 
and put them in the butter, covering them closely until they are 
sUghtly browned. Have ready the beans or peas which have been 
soaked in cold water all night, and bring them to a boil in a quart 
of water. When the vegetables are browned pour the boiling peas 
over them; add another quart of water; bring all to a boil; skim 
well and add the seasoning. Cover the kettle and let it simmer 
for three hours. Then strain the vegetables and press them 
through a colander. Return all to the kettle; bring to a boil and 
serve. 

VEGETABLE SOUP No. 2 

V2 cup chopped Gnion 1 tablespoon chopped pepper 

1 tablespoon butter or drippings iVi teaspoons salt 
IV2 quarts water 1 saltspoon pepper 

2 cups shredded cabbage 1 tomato 

Vz cup chopped carrot 1 cup sliced potato 

1 Isek I tablespoon chopped celery 

Brown the omoA slightly in the butter or drippings. Have the 
water boUing hard and add all the vegetables except the potato 
and tomato. BoU rapidly for ten minutes; then gently for one 
hour. Add the other ingredients and cook one hour longer. Have 
the cover partially off the kettle during the entire time. 

PIMIENTO BISQUE 

V2 cup rice 1/2 teaspoon salt 

3 cups chicken stock Vi teaspoon tabasco sauce 
3 pmuentoes Yolk of 1 egg 

% cup cream 

Wash the rice; cook with the stock until tender; press through 
a sieve; add the pimientoes, likewise pressed through a sieve and 
the seasomngs. Bring to a boil; add the egg, beaten with the 
cream, and serve m bouillon cups with Imperial Sticks. 

40 



nanned for a SOTTTJC 

FamUy of Four OyJVtrO 

CLAM CHOWDER 

Vz peck of clams in shell 1 quart hot milk 

3 potatoes 6 rolled crackers 

Yi potmd bacon 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

1 tablespoon chopped onion V2 teaspoon salt 

V2 saltspoon pepper 

Wash the clams and place them over the fire in a large covered 
kettle, with sufficient water to keep the under ones from burning. 
When the shells at the top have opened, remove all the clams, and 
when cool enough to handle take them from the shells. Remove 
the skins and cut into small pieces, leaving the soft part whole. 
Let the liquor settle; then pour off the top, being careful not to 
take any of the sediment. 

Cut the potatoes into small dice and parboil them, pouring off 
the water afterward. Cut the bacon in very thin slices and fry. 
Remove the bacon and fry the onion in the bacon fat and strain. 
Then boil bacon, onions and potatoes together imtil the potatoes 
are tender Use just enough boiling water to cover them, and 
drain when done. 

Reheat the clams and their liquor; add the hot milk, seasoning, 
rolled crackers, bacon, onion and potatoes; let all simmer together 
for five minutes; add the parsley and serve. 

CORN CHOWDER 

1 ounce salt pork 1 cup boiling water 

2 potatoes 1 pint can com 
1 smaU onion 1 pint hot milk 

Salt and pepper 

Pare and slice the potatoes and onion. Cut the pork into small 
dice and put over the fire, cooking imtil crisp and brown; then 
add the potatoes, onion and boihng water. Boil for one half 
hour; add the hot milk, corn and seasoning; bring all to a boil 
and serve. 

TO SERVE WITH SOUP 

Croutons 

Cut bread into half -inch shoes; remove the crusts and cut into 
cubes; put in shallow pans and brown in the oven. Buttering 
the bread will improve the flavor and insure quick browning. 



Or^TTDO Planned fof ft 

OW \JirO Family of Four 

Pulled Bread 

Place a loaf of baker's bread in a baking pan and cover it witL 
a tin plate. Let it remain in a moderate oven about twenty 
minutes, or until heated through; then with a fork remove the 
crust and tear the soft part into large ragged pieces. Spread 
these pieces in a pan and place them in a hot oven until crisp 
and brown. 

This is the bread frequently recommended for dyspeptics, but 
is delicious served in the place of crackers. 

Imperial Sticks 

Cut stale bread into one-third-inch slices and remove the 
crusts. Spread both sides thinly with butter; cut into narrow 
strips and brown in a quick oven. Serve with soup in place of 
croutons or crackers. 



Planned tor a SrtTTPR 

FamUy of Fom OWUiTia 



. ^s^j*imeaun>'«XK»?3!3C--^'^;'7V<^~# 



m 



oz-kTr-rio Planned for a 

OVJ Uir'O Famllv of Four 



Family of Four 



Planned for a QOTT'D'S 

Family of Four O V-* U ir O 



<5nTrDC; planned for a 

OUUi^a Family of Four 



4-5 



FISH 



FISH 

As ordinarily used, the term fish includes, besides the fish 
proper, many other water animals, such as oysters, clams, 
lobsters, crawfish, crabs, shrimps, turtle and terrapin. In gen- 
eral fish contains the same kind of nutrients as other food mate- 
rials, serving the two-fold purpose of tissue-building and the pro- 
duction of heat and energy. It is not so rich in nutrients or fuel 
value as meat, but furnishes an economical source of nitrogen 
and lends to the diet that variety which is almost essential. 

There are, of course, dangers from eating fish, and though they 
are scarcely greater than dangers from other kinds of food, it 
may be well to consider some of them here. 

Fish, like meat, may contain parasites injurious to man; but 
these are destroyed by thorough cooking. 

Fish may also contain ptomaines. Their formation frequently 
accompanies puti'efaction, and care should therefore be taken to 
serve fish only when it is in perfectly healthy condition. Fish 
which has been frozen and, after thawing, kept for a time before 
it is cooked, is especially likely to contain ptomaines. 

Decomposition can often be recognized by the odor of the fish 
or by the test of laying the fish in water. ThoSe which sink 
may be considered undecomposed and wholesome; those which 
float, unfit for use. The appearance of the fish is another guide: 
if the eyes have lost their sheen or the cornea is cloudy; if the 
gills are pale red or the scales dry or easily loosened, or if the 
meat is so soft that when pressed the indentation of the finger 
remains, it should be considered unfit for food. 

Ordinarily the scales are removed and the fish drawn before it 
is delivered; but if not, this should be done at once. Then wash 
the fish thoroughly, wipe it dry, sprinkle with salt and put in a 

49 



ITTQXT Mannea lor a 

■T-lOn Family of Four 

cold place. In the refrigerator fish will taint butter and other 
foods if placed in the same compartment, so that in most cases 
it is better to lay it on a plate on a pan of ice, setting the 
pan in the cellar. Fish that are frozen should soak in cold water 
until they are thawed, but should not be allowed to remain until 
they are flexible. Salt fish should be soaked in fresh water, skin 
side up, to draw out the salt. 

CLEANING FISH 

To remove the scales hold the fish by the tail and scrape firmly 
toward the head with a small sharp knife, held with the blade 
slanting toward the tail. Scrape slowly so that the scales will not 
fly, and rinse the knife frequently in cold water. 

If the fish is to be served whole, leave the head and tail on and 
trim the fins; otherwise remove them. 

To open small fish make an incision under the gills and squeeze 
out the contents by pressing upward from the middle with the 
thumb and finger. To open large fish split them from the gills 
half way down the body toward the tail; remove the entrails 
and scrape and clean, opening far enough to remove all the blood 
from the backbone, and wiping the inside thoroughly with a cloth 
WTung out of cold, salted water. 

To skin a fish remove the fins along the back and cut off a narrow 
strip of the skin the entire length of the back. Then slip the knife 
under the skin that lies over the bony part of the gills and work 
slowly toward the tail. Do the same with the other side. 

To bone a fish clean it first and remove the head. Then, begin- 
ning at the taU, run a sharp knife under the flesh close to the bone, 
scraping the flesh away clean from the bone. Work up one side 
toward the head; then repeat the same process on the other side 
of the bone. Lift the bone carefully and pull out any small bones 
that may be left in the flesh. 

BOILED FISH 

Wipe the fish carefully and if fresh, spr inkl e thoroughly with 
salt. Wrap it in a piece of cheesecloth to hold the fish together 
and to prevent the scum from clinging to the fish, and place it in 
a kettle of boiling water, adding a teaspoon of salt and a tablespoon 
of vinegar to every two quarts of water, also a slice of onion, a bay 

SO 



Planned tor b VTO'EY 

Family of Four T JLOXl 

leaf and a sprig of parsley. Cook slowly, following the time 
table in the front of the book ; lift and drain carefully; open the 
cloth and turn the fish upon the serving platter, garnishing with 
parsley and slices of lemon. The fish is done when the flesh is 
firm and separates easily from the bone. 

As fish used for boiling has Kttle fat and is cooked in none, it 
needs a rich sauce to make it palatable. Drawn butter, egg, 
Hollandaise and Bechamel sauces are used. 

BAKED FISH 

Wash and dry the fish, rubbing inside and out with salt; stuff 
with forcemeat or bread stuffing and sew. Cut gashes two inches 
apart on both sides, alternating, and into each slip a narrow strip 
of salt fat pork. Sprinkle with salt and pepper and place in a hot 
oven without water. As soon as it begins to brown add hot water 
and butter and baste every ten minutes., Bake until done, allow- 
ing an hour or more for a large fish, twenty or thirty minutes for 
a small one. Remove to a hot platter; draw out the strings; wipe 
off aU water or fat and remove pork; garnish with slices of lemon 
well covered with chopped parsley and serve with Hollandaise 
sauce. 

BROILED FISH 

For broiling large fish should be split down the back and head 
and tail removed; salmon and halibut should be cut into one-inch 
sUces, and smelts and other small fish left whole. Wipe the fish 
as dry as possible; sprinkle with salt and pepper and if the fish 
is dry and white brush the flesh side well with olive oil or butter. 
Put in a weU-greased broiler, placing the thickest parts of the fish 
toward the middle or back of the broiler. Hold over a hot fire 
until the flesh side is nicely browned; then cook the skin side just 
long enough to make the skin crisp. Small fish require from ten 
to fifteen minutes, large fish from fifteen to twenty-five. To remove 
from the broiler loosen one side first, then the other, and lift care- 
fully with a cake turner. Place on a platter; spread with butter 
and stand in the oven for a few minutes. Garnish with lemon and 
serve with Maitre d'Hdtel sauce. 

FRIED FISH 

Wash and dry the fish; season with salt and pepper; dip in fine 
bread crumbs, tlien in beaten egg, then in bread crumbs again. 

51 



■pTCXT Planned for a 

' AOXl FamUy of Four 

Place the fish in a frying basket and fry in hot fat, preferably olive 
oil. Be sure that the fat is hot; test it by lowering a small piece 
of bread; if it browns in thirty seconds the fat is sufficiently hot. 
Put only a few pieces of fish in the basket at a time and remove 
them as soon as they are brown. Garnish with parsley and serve 
with Tartare sauce. 

SHAD ROE 

Shad roe may be baked, broiled or fried. To broil, wipe dry; 
sprinkle with pepper and salt and cook five minutes on each side. 
Butter well and stand in the oven for a few minutes; then serve 
garnished with parsley and lemon. To fry, proceed as with fish, 
but cook the roe for ten minutes first in boiling water. 

BAKED SHAD 

Clean and split a three-pound shad, placing it skin side down 
in a baking pan. Sprinkle with salt and pepper; spread with 
butter and thin slices of bacon and bake twenty-five or thirty 
minutes in a hot oven. Garnish with parsley and slices of lemon. 

PLANKED SHAD 

Clean and split a three-pound shad. Heat the plank very hot; 
lay the fish upon it, skin side down. Brush the flesh carefully 
over with olive oil or butter; then sprinkle with salt and pepper. 
Bake for thirty minutes in a hot oven. It may be cooked in a gas 
range, having the flame over the fish. When cooked pour over 
the fish two tablespoons of melted butter and the juice of one 
lemon. Garnish with parsley, quarters of lemon, and mashed 
potatoes. Shape the potatoes by means of a forcing bag and star 
tube; brush over with beaten yolk of egg; then brown in the oven. 
Set the plank on a serving dish and serve. 

PLANKED HALIBUT 

Trim the ends of a solid piece of halibut, weighing about four 
pounds and cut the entire width of the fish. Peel and slice three 
onions into a baking pan, and on these lay the halibut. Squeeze 
the juice of a small lemon over it; put some pieces of butter on the 
top; pour in half a cup of white stock and half a cup of white wine. 
Bake for three quarters of an hour; baste several times with the 
liquid 'n *he pan. Add a little salt. 

52 



?*P»WWfs *M 








«€»&f-.*!\""^'*;§''\ *M*, 






CARVING 
Loin of Beef (upper cut) Loin of Beef RoUed Ribs of Beel 




TURBOT 



CRAB 



SALMON 



Planned for a TTTCTT 

Family of Four TXOXl 

When ready lift out the fish on to a hot plank. Put some hot 
mashed potatoes through a forcmg bag round the fish, brush 
with beaten egg, and return to a hot oven to brown the potatoes. 
Fill up the space between the fish and potatoes with hot vegetables. 
Decorate with pieces of cooked cucumber, which have the centers 
removed and filled with cooked and seasoned peas. 



BAKED FILLETS OF HALIBUT 

Cut the halibut into small fillets; season and place in a shallow 
pan, covered with buttered paper. Bake in a hot oven from ten to 
fifteen minutes. Garnish with parsley and serve with Hol'an- 
daise sauce. 

FRIED SMELTS 

Clean the smelts, leaving on the heads and tails. Sprinkle well 
with salt, pepper and flour; dip in egg, then in fine bread crumbs, 
and fry in deep fat. Garnish with parsley and slices of lemon and 
serve with Tartare sauce. 

SALT-FISH DINNER 

1 pound codfish 2 tablespoons fat 
14 pound salt pork 2 tablespoons flour 

2 cups skim Tnillr Speck of salt 

Dash of red pepper 

Cut the codfish in strips; soak in lukewarm water and cook 
below the boiling point until tender. Cut the pork into one-fourth 
inch slices; cut several gashes in each piece; fry slowly until 
golden brown and remove, pouring off the fat. Out of two table- 
spoons of the fat, the flour, seasoning and milk make a cream sauce. 
Put the codfish on a platter with pieces of pork around it; and serve 
with boiled potaoes and the cream sauce. 

CODFISH 

Let the fish soak in cold water for four or five hours to draw 
out the salt; wash the fish very clean; put it in a kettle with cold 
water; bring to a boil; then stand aside where it will keep just 
below boiling temperature. When perfectly tender, drain; put 
on a platter and cover with cream sauce. 

53 



T7TC!TT Planned for a 

r lOXl Family of Four 

CODFISH BALLS 

1 cup codfish 1 tablespoon soft butter 

11/2 cups mashed potato Dash of pepper 

Yolk of 1 egg White of 1 egg 
Flour 

Wash the fish in cold water and pull in small pieces; mix with 
the potatoes. Beat the egg; stir to a paste with the butter; add 
pepper, then the whites beaten to a stiff froth. Turn in the fish 
and potato; mis well -with a fork; flour the hands and roll the 
mixture into round balls. Flatten to one-half inch thickness and 
fry in hot fat. 

SALMON SURPRISE 

1 can salmon 1 cup cream sauce 

1 cup mashed potatoes 

Remove the salmon from the can; place it in a colander and wash 
under running water. Break into small pieces; mix thoroughly 
with hot cream sauce and pour into a baking dish. Cover with 
mashed potatoes and bake until the potatoes are browned. 



CREAMED SALMON 
1 can salmon 1 cup cream sauce 

Remove the salmon from the can; place it in a colander and wa^ 
under running v/ater or scald with boiling water. Break into 
small pieces; stir into the hot cream sauce; bring all to a boil 
and serve in patty cups or on toasted bread or crackers. 

FRIED SCALLOPS 

Clean the scallops; cook until they begin to shrivel; drain and 
diy between tov/els. Roll in fine bread crumbs, salt and pepper; 
dip in beaten egg; roll again in crumbs and lower for a minute 
or two into very hot fat. Drain on paper and serve. 

CLAMS 

Clams may be stewed, panned or cooked in other ways like 
oysters. They are also good made into fritters. 

54 



Manned for d iyTCtr 

FamUy of Four i? lOXl 

CLAM FRITTERS 

3 eggs 1 cup flour 

Vz cup milk 25 clams 

Beat the eggs; add the flour gradually with the milk, beating 
until perfectly smooth. Chop the clams; drain off the juice; 
stir them into the batter; mix thoroughly and drop into boiling 
hot fat. 

CREAMED CLAMS 

2 dozeii clams 14 cup clam juice 

1 tablespoon butter 1/2 cup rich cream 

1 tablespoon flour Salt and paprika 

Chop the clams fine. Melt the butter and cook the flour in it; 
add the clams and juice; simmer for ten minutes and add the 
cream. Bring to a boil; season and serve with thin slices of but- 
tered toast. 

FRIED OYSTERS 

Select large oysters; drain them and dry between soft towels. 
Dip each oyster in beaten egg until it is thoroughly coated; then 
roll in cracker dust or fine bread crumbs well seasoned with salt 
and pepper. Lay the oysters in a wire basket, a few at a time, and 
lower them into boiling hot fat. Test the fat by lowering a piece 
of stale bread into it; if it browns in tliirty seconds the fat is 
sufficiently hot; if it burns the fat is too hot. Fry the oysters a 
delicate brown; drain them over the fat; then lay on brown paper 
in the oven until serving time. 

Olive oil is best for frying, though suetine, cottolene, crisco, 
or a mixture of suet and lard brings good results. Butter alone or 
lard alone should never be used. 



OYSTER PIE 

40 large oysters 

2 hard-boiled eggs Vz tablespoon chopped parsley 

Salt and pepper 2 tablespoons floiu- 

Little grated nutmeg 4 tablespoons butter 

Put the oysters over the fire in their own liquor; add the other 
ingredients, rubbing the butter to a paste with the flom- first. 
Stir until the butter is thorouglJy melted; then pour into a deep 

55 



■]-%TrjTT Planned for a 

rlOXl Family of Four 

pudding dish, the sides of which are lined with half puff-paste- 
Have an inverted cup in the center of the dish to support the top 
crust; cover with paste; fasten the edges securely and make a 
few slashes to allow the steam to escape. Bake in a quick oven 
for about a half hour. When brown on the top, cover with paper to 
prevent the crust from burning. 



SCALLOPED OYSTERS 

Butter a baking dish and fill it with alternate layers of oysters 
and bread crumbs, making the bottom layer oysters and the top 
layer crumbs Season each layer of crumbs thoroughly and 
dot with small pieces of butter. When the dish is full moisten 
with equal parts of oyster juice and milk. 



CREAMED OYSTERS 

1 pint oysters 1 tablespoon butter 

% cup milk Salt and pepper 

1 tablespoon flour Dash of celery salt 

Heat the oysters in their own liquor, removing the scum that 
rises. Melt the butter in a separate pan; stir in the flour; add the 
milk gradually, stirring constantly to prevent lumps. Pour the 
oysters into the cream sauce thus made and just before serving 
add the seasoning, Serve in patty shells or on buttered toast. 



OYSTER STEW 

1 pint oysters and juice Salt and red pepper 

1 pint hot milk or cream 1 ounce butter 

Put the oysters over the fire in their own liquor; the moment 
they come to a boU, skim carefully and add the hot nulk or cream. 
Skim again; remove from the fire and add the butter and seasoning. 



SHIRRED OYSTERS 

Place small squares of toast in a pan and on each as many oysters 
as it wiU hold, well seasoned with salt, pepper and bits of butter. 
Cover the pan and cook the oysters in the oven until they are plump 
and curled at the edges. Serve immediately. 

56 



Flanned for a T?TCT-1 

Family of Four TlOi'l 



PANNED OYSTERS 

25 oysters Juice of V2 lemon 

1 tablespoon butter Salt and pepper 

Squares of toast 

Melt the butter over the fire; add the lemon juice, then the 
drained oysters. Cook until the edges begin to curl; season and 
serve on small squares of toast. 

BROILED OYSTERS 

Wash the oysters and dry them with a soft towel. Dip them 
in melted butter and lay them on a broiler which has been well 
greased with salt pork or butter. Broil on both sides for a few 
minutes; lay on buttered toast and season with salt, pepper and 
butter. 

Oysters cooked on both sides on a buttered gridiron have the 
flavor of broiled oysters, and are more easily prepared. 

TERRAPIN 

Drop the live terrapin in hot water and boil until the skin can 
be pulled from the legs. When cool, take off the shells; puU out 
the claws; open the body and remove carefully the sand bag 
and gall, being careful not to break them; also the entrails, lights, 
heart, head, tail and white muscles. The remainder of the terra- 
pin is to be used when cut into small pieces. 

STEWED TERRAPIN 

1 terrapin Yolk of 1 egg 

Vi pound butter Salt and cayenne 

1 tablespoon flour Pinch of mace 

Vi cup cream 1 tablespoon currant jelly 

Rub the butter in the flour and add it to the terrapin; add the 
cream in which the egg has been beaten, salt, cayenne, mace and 
jelly. Simmer for ten minutes and serve. 

LOBSTER 

Select a live lobster of medium size but heavy in proportion to 
its size. If the tail springs back quickly when straightened, the 
lobster is fresh. 

57 



f^TOTT "Planned for a 

FISH Family of Four 

To kill a lobster grasp it by the back and put its head under 
hot water; then its body, and quickly cover the kettle. The 
lobster will die immediately, but should remain in the water about 
twenty minutes, boiling all the time. 

The meat should not be eaten until cold and should never be 
kept more than eighteen hours after cooking. It should not be 
removed from the shell until it is to be used. 

Remove the meat from the shell, discarding the gills, stomach 
and intestines. Garnish with small clams and lettuce leaves. 

PLANKED LOBSTER 

To plank a lobster heat the plank very hot. Kill the lobster 
by splitting it into halves, lay it on the plank shell side down; put 
it under the gas for twenty minutes; baste with butter; dust with 
salt and pepper, and cook ten minutes longer. Garnish with small 
-fried French potato balls and grated cucumber in tiny lettuce 
leaves. 

DEVILED CRABS 

6 crabs Vz cup cream 

1 hard-boiled egg Salt and cayenne 

2 tablespoons butter V4 teaspoon sweet marjoram 
Grated nutmeg Cracker dust 

1 raw egg 

Put the crabs into hot water; add salt and boil for thirty 
minutes. Or, buy crab meat already picked and ask the dealer 
for six shells. Cut the meat into small pieces; add the hard- 
boiled egg, cream, butter and seasoning and cook for a few minutes 
over a hot fire, thickening the mixture with cracker dust. Fill 
the shells; dip them in the raw egg, beaten; then in cracker 
crumbs; place in a hot oven or drop into boiling fat and fry until 
brown. 

FROGS 

Only the hind quarters of frogs are cooked. Wash and dry 
them; skin and dip them in milk; sprinkle with salt, pepper and 
flour and fry in boiling hot fat. Or put them in a saucepan with 
butter, a sprinkling of flour and pepper and salt. Shake over 
the fire for a moment; add a little water; simmer until tender 
and almost dry; then add a cup of cream and a large lump of 
butter rubbed together with a little flour. Bring to a boil and 
serve. 

58 



Hanriecl for a UTCTT 

Family of Four r XOXX 



T?TCXT Planned lor » 

ri^XX Family of Four 



Planned for a UTCXi 

Family ol Four '^ LOXl 



UTCXr Planned for a 

•P lOil Family of Four 



62 



MEATS 



MEATS 

1 A 7HETHER or not meat is absolutely essential to the human 
' ■ ■ body has never been adequately worked out, but animal 
flesh has been from earliest times the staple article of diet wher- 
ever it could be found. It is true that the American Indian sub- 
sisted largely upon maize, and developed enormous strength in 
the practice, but it is likewise true that he ate meat whenever it 
was available. There is a flavor in the so-called "extractives" of 
meat which nothing can altogether replace, no matter how firmly 
we may be convinced that other foods contain as much or more 
protein and fats. 

The cooking of meats is more important, perhaps, than the 
cooking of any other kind of food, as good cooking enhances and 
poor cooking lessens or destroys the nutritive value. In general 
it may be said that cooking develops the pleasing taste and oddr 
of the meat and softens and loosens the protein of the connective 
tissues, thus making the meat more tender. Extreme heat, how- 
ever, tends to harden the albuminoids of the lean portions and 
to weaken the flavor of the extractives. 

Fresh meat should never be permitted to soak in cold water, 
as cold water draws out the juices. It should in most cases 
simply be wiped with a damp cloth, and if washed shoidd be 
dried immediately. 

Meat is in most households the most expensive food placed 
upon the table and unfortunately not always the richest from the 
physiological standpoint. It therefore behooves the housewife to 
buy as wisely as possible and to consider some of the suggestions 
found in the following pages for cooking the cheaper cuts of meat. 

"Take the side of a steer lying in a butcher shop and consider 
it as composed of three equal parts," says Dr. Harvey W= Wiley, 

65 




L Neck 

2. Chuck 

3. Ribs 

4. Shoulder dcral 
fi. Fore shank 

6, Brisket 

7, Cross ribs 

8 Plate 

9 Navel 
10. Loin 
n. Flank 

12. Rump 

13. Round 

14. Second cut fOun«/ 
^5 Hind shanlr 




Diagram of Cuts of Bees- 



manned for a iurt^ a rw^n 

FamUy ot Four MEATS 

"At wholesale prices one of these parts will cost the butcher 
today 6| cents per pound, another 7§ cents, the other 16 cents. 
Now, there is not the slightest difference in the quality of these 
three cuts. One tastes just as good as the other and is just as 
nutritious if properly cooked. The only reason that one part 
costs more than twice as much as the other is that there is twice 
as much demand for that particular cut of beef. The average 
family uses cuts that come from 28 per cent of the steer. This 
leaves 72 per cent of so-called 'rough meat' in the carcass that 
costs only about half as much as the other 28 per cent. Yet, I 
repeat, there is no practical difference in the meat. One can be 
made just as palatable as the other, and the ordinary housewife 
can almost cut her meat bill in two and, at the same time, set 
just as good a table as usual if, instead of buying the expensive 
cuts, she gets the cheaper ones and prepares them carefully." 

Roasting 

The chief point to remember in roasting is that the meat should 
be quickly browned in order that the crust thus formed may retain 
the juices. The oven should therefore be hot when the meat is 
put in and the heat, if possible, gradually reduced. 

Wipe the meat with a damp cloth, but do not wash it. Sprinkle 
with pepper and salt and just a little flour, and put in a pan 
with a small piece of fat or drippings. When the meat is seared, 
add a little water and baste every ten minutes. When one side is 
thoroughly browned, turn over and brown the other side. When 
done, remove the roast ; pour off almost all of the fat and make a 
brown sauce according to the directions in the chapter on 
"Sauces." 

K the meat is very lean it is a good plan to lay thin slices of fat 
meat, bacon or pork over the top. 

Broiling 

The object of boiling is to coagulate as quickly as possible all 
the albumen on the surface of the meat, sealing up the pores so 
that none of the juices may escape. It is therefore a good plan to 
warm the gridiron before putting on the meat so that none of the 
heat may be conducted away. The broiling should be done ovet 

67 



IVTT? A TG Planned tor a 

IVi JiA 1 O Family of Four 

a clear fire at least two inches away from the gridiron. Meat 
cooked by this method is more wholesome than meat cooked in 
any other way; but if the fire is not hot, most of the juices will be 
lost. Season with salt, pepper and butter when the meat is done; 
do not season before cooking, as salt draws out the juices. 

Pan-broiling is less desirable than broiling over hot coals, 
though when properly done the meat has much the same flavor 
and appearance. Have the pan red hot and if the meat is very 
lean, rub the pan with fat; but do not leave any fat in the pan. 
Sear the meat quickly on one side, then on the other; then cook, 
turning several times. Season and serve. 



Boiling 

Boiling is one of the easiest methods of cooking meat, but it is 
not satisfactory unless the proper method is followed. In making 
soup the meat is put in cold water to draw out the juices; in boiling 
it should be put in hot water, so that the meat and not the water 
may retain the juices and flavoring. Some of them will necessarily 
escape, but the boiling water coagulates the albxmien on the sur- 
face of the meat, forming a sort of coat. 

Salt meat should be soaked in cold water before boiling, but 
frssh meat should simply be wiped with a damp cloth. Have the 
kettle scrupulously clean; put in it enough water to cover the 
meat and when boiling drop in the meat. Boil hard for fivo 
minutes; then draw the kettle aside and let the meat cook slowly 
Cover closely and remove all scum that rises. 

Frying 

Frying is cooking in very hot fat, and the secret of success is 
to have the fat hot enough to harden the outer surface of the meat 
immediately and deep enough to cover the meat. As the fat can 
be saved and used many times, the use of a large quantity is not 
extravagant. 

Have a frying pan with a wire basket and arrange the pieces 
of meat or croquettes so that they will not touch each other. 
Plunge them in the fat, testing it first with a small piece of bread, 
which should brown in thirty seconds. 'V^Tien cooked, drain the 
meat over the hot fat; shake the basket and place the pieces on 
soft paper so that the fat may be absorbed. 

Olive oil is best for frying; but as it is expensive for general use, 

68 




CARVING 

Leg of Mutton Shoulder of Mutton Shoulder of MuttOD 



1-ianued tor a iktt-' a ^i^o 

Family of Fou r MiiA 1 b 

various compounds such as cottolene, suetine, crisco, etc., may 
be used. These on the whole are better than lard, which is easily 
absorbed and therefore apt to make the food greasy. Suet and 
drippings are cheapest; but suet alone cools quickly and leaves 
a tallowy taste. 

Dry the meat; roll it in fine bread crumbs; then dip it in beaten 
egg diluted with water; roll it in bread crumbs again and fry. 
The white of the egg hardens immediately if the fat is sufficiently 
hot and the fat cannot penetrate to the meat. Mix a little salt 
and pepper with the bread crumbso 

Sautling 

Sauteing is commonly called frying: it consists in cooking with 
a little fat in a shallow pan. This method is apt to make the 
articles greasy and is therefore to be used with caution. Butter 
is generally used, though olive oil is more wholesome. 

Braising 

Braising is a cross between boiling and baking and is one of 
the best methods of cooking large pieces of tough, lean meat. 
The meat is placed in a closely covered pan partly filled with hot 
stock or water and cooked slowly in the oven. Bay leaf, carrot, 
onion and herbs are added, and the meat is usually seared first 
to prevent escape of the juices in the watero 

Stewing 

Stewing consists in cooking meat in a little water in a closely 
covered vessel. Thickening and vegetables are usually added. 
Cut the meat in small pieces and brown over the fhe; add boiling 
water; cook for a few minutes; then reduce the heat and cook very 
slowly. The long-continued action of the heat softens the fibers 
and renders the coarsest and cheapest kinds of meat tender and 
palatable. 

Fricasseeing 

To fricassee meat saute it first to keep in its juices, then stew 
until tender and serve with white or brown sauce made from the 
juice in the pan. 

69 



MTTAT"^ Planned for a 

iVir/A 1 O Family of Four 

PURCHASING BEEF 

Roasting — ribs, loin, rump and pin-bone. Second cut from 
thinnest side of ribs and sirloin are best pieces. 

Broiling — loin, rumiD, skirt. Tenderloin and sirloin the best. 

Boiling — round. 

Stewing — round, brisket, etc. 

Soup — shin, leg, neck, etc. 

Broth — neck, round, etc. 

POT ROAST 

Pot roast calls for l>*isket or round and is one of the cheaper 
dishes of meat. Wipe the beef with a clean, ^et cloth; sear by 
placing in a hot frying pan and turning until the entire surface is 
bro'^\Tied, then put in a kettle with' not more than a cup of hot 
water; cover tightly and keep just below the boiling point. Do 
not let the meat boil dry, but add only enough water to keep it 
from burning. Cook until tender and add pared potatoes one half 
hour before it is done. Serve with brown sauce made from the 
fat in the pot. 

ROAST BEEF WITH YORKSHIRE PUDDING 

2 cups flour 3 eggs 

1/2 teaspoon salt 2 cups milk 

Roast the beef as usual. Mix the flour with the salt; add the 
beaten eggs and the milk and stir until the batter is smooth. 
Pour into a shallow baking pan containing a little of the drippings 
from the roast beef. Let the batter be only one inch thick and 
bake from thirty to forty-five mmutcs, basting, after it is risen, 
with some of the fat from the pan in which the beef is roasting. 
Cut into squares and place it around the roast beef. 

BEEF A LA MODE 

5 pounds beef from the roimd 

Lardoons of pork 

Salt and pepper 

Flour Bay leaf 

Water Sprig of parsley 

Make eight or ten deep incisions in the meat and press into 
them lardoons of salt pork. Brown the meat in pork fat or drip- 

70 



i'Znliy cf'Ft^r MEATS 

ping^; season, dredge with flour and brown again. Raise the 
beef on a trivet, put in water to half cover it, and the vegetables 
sliced or cut into cubes, bay leaf and parsley. Cover closely and 
cook below the boiling point for about four hours. Remove meat 
to platter; surround with vegetables and make a brown sauce of 
the strained liquor. 

BEEF TERRAPIN 

Shin of beef i/^ pound butter 

Salt and red pepper i cup cream 

3 blades mace 1 heaping teaspoon flour 

2 tablespoons currant jelly 

Have the shin of beef sawed through the bone in three places; 
put it in a vessel over the fire; cover with boiling water and throw 
in a tablespoon of salt. Boil slowly until tender (three or four 
hours}, adding more water if necessary. When the meat is done, 
remove and cool it, saving the broth for soup. Cut the cold meat 
into half -inch dice; add seasoning and butter and the flour well 
mixed with the cream. Bring to a boil, stir in the jelly and serve. 



PLANKED STEAK 

Nearly all planking boards are now fitted out with steel rods 
or bars to hold the steak in place and grooves for the conservation 
of the gravy. Before using, heat the board very hot before the 
fire or in the oven, lay the steak on and fasten into place. Brush 
over with olive oil or melted butter; dust with salt and pepper 
and lay the plank in the broiler chamber of a gas range for at least 
fifteen minutes. Baste frequently and reverse the plank from time 
to time. 

While the steak is cooking press fresh-boiled potatoes through a 
ricer; season with salt and pepper; add a little butter and cream; 
and beat with a fork vmtil very light. When the steak is nearly 
done take the board from the oven; put the beaten potato into a 
pastry bag and force through the tube, rose fashion, at regular 
intervals along the edge of the steak on the board. 

Between the potato roses make little mounds of cauliflower, 
mushrooms, spinach or onions. Return to the oven and allow 
them to brown delicately. Garnish with cress and send the steak 
to the table on the plank, setting it on a large platter or tray. 

71 



H/TTj* a T^C Planned for a 

IVlJiA 1 O Family of Four 

PLANKED STEAK WITH OYSTERS 

Have an extra sirloin neatly trimmed; put it on the broiler; 
Droil five minutes on one side; turn and broil fi\'e minutes on the 
Dther side. Make the plajiking board very hot while the steak is 
Droilmg. Put the steak on ; garnish the board quickly with mashed 
Dotatoes and put it under the broiler. Turn the steak once. Dust 
ivith salt and pepper and rub with butter. Cover the top with 
broiled oysters, then run it again under the broiler for a few 
coinutes. Serve very hot. 

PLANKED SALISBURY STEAK 

1 poimd lean beef Mashed potatoes 

Salt and pepper 3 baked bananas 

1 teaspoon onion juice 1 cup cream sauce 

Vi cup grated horseradish 



Chop the meat very fine; season with salt, pepper and onion 
juice; make it into three cakes. Put the cakes on a hot plank and 
then under the broiler. It is -nase to turn a Salisbury steak once 
riming the cooking. YvTien done garnish the plank with mashed 
potatoes; put it back until brown. Have ready a baked banana 
for each cake. Make a cream sauce; add to it half a cup of grated 
horseradish; fill this around the board; put the baked bananas 
on top and serve. 

CORNED BEEF 

All corned beef requires to be boiled slowly. Put it on in cold 
water; allow twenty-five or thirty minutes for every pound of beef. 
Let it come slowly to a boil, then allow it to simmer. 

Cabbage is usually served with corned beef but should not be 
boiled with it. Parsnips or turnips may be served if preferred. 

PICKLE FOR CORNING BEEF 

3 gallons water 1 ounce pearlash 

6% pounds salt 21/2 pounds sugar 

1 pint molasses 

This pickle is sufficient for fifty pounds of beef. When salt and 
5Ugar are thoroughly dissoh'ed lay in the beef. It will be ready 
lor use in twelve or fourteen days, but can remain in the pickle 
ave or six weeks without injury. 

72 



Planned for a H/TTT A TQ 

Family of Four iVlilA 1 >:> 

ROLLED STEAK 

1 small skirt steak 1 cup stock 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley 1 slice carrot 

1 tablespoon chopped onion 1 bay leaf 
Salt and pepper 

Trim the steak; sprinkle it with parsley and onion; season with 
pepper and salt; roll and tie it. Place it in a small roasting pan 
v.'ith the stock (or water if you have no stock), carrot and bay leaf 
and roast for one hour, basting constantly. Serve with tomato or 
brown sauce. 



MOCK DUCK 

1 pound round steak 
4 tablespoons bread crumbs 

V^ teaspoon salt 2 teaspoons chopped onion 

Milk to moisten the bread 

Purchase a steak of uniform thickness and remove all the fat. 
Prepare a filling as follows : Mix together the crumbs, salt, pepper 
and sage; scald the onions to soften them and to remove the strong 
flavor, and add them to the crumbs, moistening all with milk. 
Wipe the steak with a damp cloth; spread the filling evenly over 
the meat; roll ai^d tie it, sewing the ends to keep it together. 
Place it in a roasting pan with a little water and bake for about 
three quarters of an hour, basting frequently. Serve with currant 
jelly. 

MOCK RABBIT 

1 poimd round steak 1 egg 

1/2 poimd sausage meat 1 onion 

3 slices moistened bread Vi pound salt pork 

Salt and pepper 

Chop or grind the meat. Chop the onion and cook it in the fat 
'tried out of a small portion of the pork; add the bread and cook 
a few minutes. When cool, mix with the other ingredients except 
the pork; form into a long, round roll, smoothing it by moistening 
the hands with cold water. Cut the pork in thin slices; lay them 
over the loaf and bake for forty minutes in a hot oven. 

The sausage may be omitted if desired and more seasoning used 
in its place. 

73 



MEATS 



rSinned for a 
Family of Four 



BEEF CHOP SUEY 



2 sweet peppers 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

1 pint tomatoes Salt and pepper 

2 tablespoons chopped celery lYz pounds beefsteak 

Choose tender steak and cut it Into small pieces. Saute the 
vegetables in hot fat or butter and season well; cook for ten or 
fifteen minutes ; then pour over the beef which has been cooked in 
similar fashion in another pan. 

SPANISH BEEFSTEAK 

2 pounds steak Salt and red pepper 

Bacon or salt pork 1/2 cup milk 

Yz cup water 

Have the steak about one inch thick; pound until thin; season 
&nd cover with a layer of bacon or salt pork cut into thin slices. 
Iloll the steak ; tie it with a cord and place it in a covered baking 
dish Vi-ith the milk and water. Cook two hours, basting cic- 
casionally. 

MEXICAN BEEF 

2 chile peppers Butter or drippings 

1 pint warm water Clove of garlic 

2 pounds beef Boiled Mexican beans 

Remove the seeds from the chile peppers; soak the pods in the 
warm water until soft; then scrape the pulp from the pods and 
add it to the water. Cut the beef into small pieces and brown ui 
butter or savory drippings. Add the garlic and chile water and 
cook until the meat is tender, adding more water if necessary. 
Thicken with a few crushed beans and serve with Mexican beans, 
either mixed with the meat or used as a border. 

If cliile peppers cannot be obtained, water and cayenne may be 
substituted, and if Mexican beans cannot be obtained, other dried 
beans may be used. 

GUISO 

1 small round steak 1 onion 

1 tablespoon drippings 4 Mexican peppers 
4 tablespoons boiled rice Salt 

2 cups boiling water Flour to thicken 

Wipe the meat with a damp cloth; cut it into small pieces and 
pat it in a frymg pan with the drippings, rice, half the boiling 

74 



Planned for a MTTAT^ 

Family of Four iVl ilii 1 S 

water and the onion, sliced. Cover and cook slowly until tender. 
Remove the seeds from the peppers ; cover them with another cup 
of boiling water and let them stand until cool; then squeeze them 
from the water with the hand, getting out all the pulp. To the 
water and pulp add salt and a little flour to thicken ; pour over the 
cooked meat; boil for a minute and serve. This is one of the most 
palatable of Mexican dishes. 



FILIPINO BEEF 

1 pound round beef 1 ctxp stale bread crumbs 

1/2 pound lepji fresh pork 1 egg 

i small oiiion 2 cups stewed tomatoes 

1 green pepper 2 slices bacon 

1 teaspoon salt i tablespoon butter 

1 tablespoon flour 

Remove the seeds from the pepper and run it through the meat 
grinder with the meat and onion. Add crumbs, beaten egg and 
seasoning; make into a roll; place in a shallow baking dish; pour 
the strained tomatoes around it; put the bacon on top and bake 
forty minutes, basting with the tomatoes. Thicken the gravy 
with the flour cooked in the butter, and serve. 



HUNGARIAN GOULASH 

1 pound top louad of beef 1 small onion 

1 ounce salt pork 1 bay leaf 

1 cup tomatoes 3 whole cloves 

1/2 stalls celery 3 whole peppercorns 

1 blade mace Flour 
Salt and paprika 

Fry the salt pork until a light brown ; add the beef, cut into two- 
inch pieces and sprinkled with flour; cover Vidth water; let simmer 
for two hours and season with salt and paprika. Then cook the 
vegetables and spices for twenty minutes in water sufficient to cover 
them; rub them through a sieve and add to some of the stock in 
which the meat was cooked. Thicken with flour, using a table- 
spoonful moistened in cold water to each cup of licjuid, and season. 
Serve the meat on the platter with the sauce poured over it. 
Potatoes, carrots and green peppers, cooked until tender and 
cut into small pieces or long narrov/ strips, are usually put over the 
top. 

75 



TUn? A TC Planned for & 

IVlIiA 1 O FamUy of Four 

SOUR BEEF 

Take a piece of beef from the rump or the lower round; cover 
with vinegar ; add sliced onion, bay leaves^ a few whole spices and 
salt. Let it stand a week in winter or three days in summer, 
turning it every day and keeping it covered. AVhen ready to cook 
put a piece of fat in an iron pan; brown the meat; then strain the 
liquid over it and cook until the meat is tender. Remove the 
meat ; thicken the gravy with broken gingersnaps ; strain and pour 
over the meat, adding a few seeded raisins if desired. 

BEEF BIRDS 

Cut slices half an inch thick from the rump or round of beef; 
divide them into pieces about four inches square; spread with 
sausage meat or forcemeat; roll up tightly and fasten with cord 
or wooden tooth-picks. Brown in butter; cover with broth; 
stew until tender and nearly dry; thicken the gravy with flour; 
add a quarter of a cup of tomato or mushroom catsup; bring to 
a boil and serve. 

BEEF LOAF 

11/2 pounds round steak Salt and pepper 

Small piece of suet 1 small omoD 

1 cup bread crumbs Butter 

Hs^s a small piece of suet ground with the beef; mix thoroughly 
^tli the crumbs, the seasoning and the onion finely chopped. 
Moisten the crumbs slightly with milk or water. Mold into a 
loaf; put into a roasting pan with a little water; make indenta- 
tions in the top of the loaf with the finger and fill with small 
pieces of butter. Serve hot with brown sauce, or cold, sliced 
thin. 

HAMBURG STEAK 

Have lean raw beef finely chopped; season well with pepper 
and salt and a little chopped onion or onion juice. Mold into 
cakes and broil in a greased broiler or hot frying pan. When 
done spread with butter or pour over them a brown sauce made 
in the pan. 

CREAMED BEEF 

Take freshly ground meat from the rump or round and cook it 
in a frying pan with a very little butter, stirring constantly and 

76 



Planned lot a H/TT? A 'PO 

FamUy of Four iVlJiA i & 

sprinkling at every turn with salt, pepper and flour. The meat 
should lose its red color but not brown. When done, thin with 
cream or milk; bring to a boil and serve in patty cups or on toast. 

MINCED BEEF 

Chop beef from the rump or round into small pieces and stew 
in a little water or milk, seasoning with butter, salt and pepper 
when the meat is first put in the pan. Serve on buttered toast. 

The remains of roast beef may also be prepared in this way. 

CREAMED FRIZZLED BEEF 

y2 pound sliced dried beef 14 cup cold water 

1 tablespoon butter li^ cup milk 

2 tablespoons flour 1 egg 

Buttered toast 

Pick the meat over carefully, removing all gristle and breaking 
it into small bits. If very salty bring to a boil in a little water 
and drain. Melt the butter in a frying pan; throw in the beef 
and stir it with a fork until it is cooked, but not browned. Re- 
move the pan from the hottest part of the stove; sift the flour 
over the meat, stirring all the time; add the cold water and con- 
tinue stirring until all the water has been absorbed. Then draw 
the pan to the hot part of the stove and add the milk. Bring all 
to a boil; add the beaten egg and serve at once on small slices of 
buttered toast. The egg may be omitted if preferred. 



BOILED BEEF'S TONGUE 

1 fresh tongue 12 whole cloves 

1 chopped carrot 2 bay lea:ves 

1 chopped onioa 1 cup raisins 
Salt 

Wash the tongue; throw it into a kettle of boiling water; bring 
to a boil; then simmer gently for two hours. Remove the tongue; 
skin it and put it into a kettle with the vegetables,cloves,bay leaves, 
raisins and enough of the water in which the tongue was boiled 
to cover them. Cover the saucepan; stew gently for two hours, 
adding the salt at the end of one hour; remove the tongue and 
serve in a border of the carrots and raisins. 

6 77 



TV/TT^ATQ Planned for a 

iViii A J. O family of Four 

SMOKED TONGUE BOILED 

Soak the tongue in cold water over night. In the morning cover 
with fresh water; bring to the boiling point; then simmer gently 
for four hours or until tender. When thoroughly cooked, re- 
move the tongue; skin it, trim off the smoked parts and serve 
surroimded with mashed potatoes and garnished with parsley. 

VEAL LOAP 

3 poirnds veal 3 eggs 

1 pound salt pork Vi teaspoon pepper 

6 soda crackers 1/2 teaspoon salt , 

RoU the crackers fine; mix them with the chopped meat and the 
other ingredients ; shape into a loaf and bake three hours, basting 
occasionally in the fat rendered from a small portion of the pork 
and pricking the loaf so that the fat may penetrate. Serve coW 
sliced very thin. 

INDIA CURRY 

11/2 pounds veal 2 onions or less 

1/2 cup butter or drippings 1/2 tablespoon curry or less 

Brown the meat without fat and cut into small pieces. Fry 
the onions in the butter; remove them; add the meat and curry 
powder; cover \nth boiling water and cook until tender. Serve 
in a wide border of rice. 

CURRY OF VEAL 

2 tablespoons butter or drippings 1 pint milk 

IV2 pounds veal 1 tablespoon flour 

1/2 onion 1 teaspoon curry powder 
Salt and pepper 

Chop the onion; fry it in the butter; remove and fry the veal 
until it is brown. Transfer the meat to the double boiler; cover 
with milk and cook until tender. Add the curry powder shortly 
before the meat is done and thicken the milk with flour. Serve 
in a border of rice. 

BAKED CALF'S HEAD 

Have the butcher split open the head, remove the eyes and chop 
off the nose. Lay the head in salted water for half an hour; change 

78 



Planned for a 
Family of Four 



MEATS 



the water; wash and cleanse the head thoroughly. Take out the 
brains; remove all the skin and blood; tie them in a piece of cheese- 
cloth and put them with the head into a large kettle of boiling 
water. Add salt and lioil the head for about two hours, or until 
the jaw bone can be twisted out of the meat. The brains will be 





J. Neck C. Ribs 

2 Cliuck 7. Loia 

S, Shoulder 8. Flank 

4. Fore shank 0- Lefj 

5. Breast jO. Hind shank 

Diagram of Cuts of Veal 

cooked in half an hour and should l3e remo^'Gd, but kept hot. 
1'ake'out all th^e bones from the head, but keep it as nearly v,'hole 
as possible. Butter a bakiiig dish; lay the brains in it, then the 
iicad on them; season plentifully viiih powdered cloves, salt and 
pepoer- stick small pieces of butter rolled in flour T%-herever there 
isa' crack or opening, and dust with flour. Mix a little currant 
ielly with two cups of the broth the head was boiled in, and pour 
over the head; set in a hot oven and bake until very brown, 
basting several times. 

CALF'S LIVF'.l V/ITH CREAM SAUCE 
Pour boiling water over the slices of liver and let stand five 
minutes to draw out the blood. Drain, wipe, remove all skm. 



MEATS 



Planned for a 
Family of Four 



wMte veins and membranes, and dust with flour. Fry several 
slices of breakfast bacon until crisp; remove them and pour off 
the fat into a clean frying pan, leaving the salt and sediment. 
Reheat the fat; put in enough liver to cover the bottom of the pan; 
cook until done, testing one piece by cutting it with a knife to 
see whether all pink color is gone from the inside. Arrange the 
pieces on a hot platter, surround them with the bacon and cover 
with a cream sauce made in the pan. Pour off all the fat but one 
tablespoon; add a tablespoon of flour; cook thoroughly and add 
the cream or mUk. 

BROILED LIVER 

Cut the liver into slices half an inch thick and let stand in boiling 
water for five minutes. Drain, wipe and remove all skin^ veins 
and membranes. Sprinkle with salt and pepper; place in a 
greased wire broiler and broil from five to eight minutes. Remove 
to a hot platter; spread with butter and sprinkle with, pepper and 
salt. 

LIVER AND BACON 

Prepare as for broiled liver; sprinlde with salt and pepper and 
dredge with flour. Cook the bacon until crisp and brown; re- 
move it and fry the liver slowly in the fat. Cook until thoroughly 
done but not dried, and make a brown sauce, using the fat in the 
pan. Serve with the bacon. 



BRAISED LIVER 

Calf's or lamb's liver 3 peppercorns 

1 carrot 2 whole cloves 

1 onion 1 bay leaf 

1 stalk celeiy 2 cups stock or water 
Salt pork 

Skewer, tie in shape and lard the liver. Cut the vegetables 
into small cubes; put them in a baking pan with the seasonings 
and bits left from the lardoons of salt pork; lay the liver on top; 
pour over all two cups of stock or water; cover closely and bake 
slowly for two hours, basting occasionally and uncovering the last 
fifteen minutes. Remove the liver to a platter; surroimd it with 
the vegetables; then make a brown sauce, using the strained liquor, 
and pour over all. 

SO 



Planned for a TUnT ATQ 

Family of Four iVir/AJ.O 

STEWED LIVER 

Prepare liver as for broiling; cut in small pieces and saute 
about two minutes in hot fat. Put the pieces in a saucepan with 
a Kttle water, half a lemon sliced, a pinch each of cinnamon, nut- 
meg and cloves, and stew gently for twenty minutes. Thicken the 
juice a little and serve. 

STUFFED CALF'S LIVER 

1 calf's liver V2 cup stale bread crumbs 

2 cups thin brown sauce 1/2 small onion chopped 

14 poimd chopped cold ham 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

Salt and pepper 

Make a dressing of the ham, bread crumbs, onion and parsley, 
seasoning well and moistening with a little brown sauce. Pour 
boiKng water on the liver; let stand five minutes; then make a 
deep cut the entire length of the liver, beginning at the thick end. 
Fill the pouch; skewer the liver; lard it and put it in a baking pan 
with the brown sauce. Bake one hour and a quarter, basting fre- 
quently. 

PURCHASING MUTTON OR LAMB 

Roasting — ^hind-quarter, leg, loin, breast. 

Broiling — chops from loin, or breast, steaks from leg. 

Boiling — leg. 

Stewing — chops from fore-quarter, the neck or leg. 

Soup — shoulder, neck, leg. 

Broth — neck. 

SHOULDER OF MUTTON STUFFED 

1 cup bread crumbs Juice of one lemon 

2 tablespoons butter 1 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley 1 saltspoon pepper 

I ggg Shoulder of mutton 

Have the blade removed from the shoulder and fill the space 
with a stuffing made in the usual way. Sew up the opening and 
roast the shoulder, putting a little water in the pan and basting 
frequently. Allow from fifteen to eighteen minutes to the pound, 
and when done make a brown sauce in the pan. 

The stuffing may be varied by the addition of chopped meat, 
celery, onion, oysters, mushrooms, etc. 

81 



MEATS 



Planned tor a 
Family of Four 



HARICOT OF MUTTON 



2 tablespoons chopped onion 
2 tablespoons butter or drippings 
Salt and pepper 



2 cups water 

11/2 pounds mutton or Iamb 

Cooked lima beans 



Select lean meat and cut it into two-inch pieces. Fry the onions 
in the butter; add the meat; season and brown; cover with water; 




1. Neck 

2. Chuck 

3. Shoulder 

4. Flank 

5. Loin 

6. Leg 



Diagram of Gtjts of Lamb and Mutton 

cook until tender and serve in a border of lima beans, well cooked 
and seasoned with salt, pepper, butter and chopped parsley. 




BOILED SHOULDER OF MUTTON 

Bone the shoulder; fill the space with pine nuts; dust all with 
flour; wrap in cheesecloth and plunge in a kettle of boiling water. 
Boil rapidly for five minutes; then simmer for two hours. Serve 
with caper cauce. 

82 



rianned for a TWrTTATQ 

Family of Four iVJ.i:/ii.XO 

RA.GOUT OF MUTTON 

1% poirnds neck of mutton 1 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon butter Vi teaspoon pepper 

1 tablespoon flour Sprig of parsley 

1 chopped onion 1 bay leaf 

1 carrot cut in dice 1 whole clove 

2 cups hot water V2 can peas 

Put butter in the frying pan; when melted, add flour and brown. 
Add carrot, onion and meat and cook until all are browned. Put 
in a kettle; add water, salt and pepper and the herbs, tied in a 
bouquet so that they can be removed. Cover and simmer for two 
hours, adding the peas ten minutes before serving and removing the 
herbs. 

miSH STEW 

Neck of mutton 6 parboiled potatoes 

1 tablespoon butter or drippings 1 carrot 

2 onions Salt and pepper 

Cut the meat into pieces two inches square; brown in the butter; 
add water to cover the meat and the onions sliced. Cover closely 
and simmer two hours. Add more water if necessary, parboiled 
potatoes cut in half, a sliced carrot and seasoning. Cover and 
cook one hour longer; let the potatoes be soft but not broken. 
Thicken as desired. 

A bay leaf cooked with the meat or a little Worcestershire sauce 
added to the gravy when finished improves the flavoro 

PLANKED CHOPS 

Broil some thick chops on one side and arrange them cooked 
side down, overlapping each other on the hot plank. Season with 
salt, pepper and butter. Cook for twenty minutes, basting fre- 
quently. Decorate with a border of mashed potatoes pressed 
through a bag and a star tube. Fill in with hot vegetables. Serve 
at once with brown sauce. 

MUTTON CHOPS WITH PEAS 

Broil the chops as usual and have green peas boiled. Heap the 
peas in the center of a round chop plate; decorate the chops with 
paper rufiles and arrange them symmetrically around the peas. 

83 



MEATS 



Planned for a 
Family of Four 



ROAST PORK 

Select leg, loin, spare-rib or shoulder. If the skin is left on, cut 
it with a sharp knife in lines running both ways. Add water and 
bake in a moderate oven, allowing from twenty to thirty minutes 
to the poimd. Serve with apple sauce. 




1. Head 

2. Shoulder 

3. Back 

4. Middle cut 
6. Belly 

6. Ham 

7. Ribs 

8. Lola 



Diagram of Cuts of Pork 



PORK CHOPS 

Have chops cut not more than a half inch thick. Place them in 
a hot pan and cook slowly until tender and brown. Serve with 
fried apples. 

BOILED HAM 

Let the ham soak in cold water over night; wash thoroughly, 
trim off the hard skin near the end of the bone; put in a kettle ol 
cofd water; heat to boiling point and cook slowly until tender 

84 




,>*!i.»»w\W*w*»?**«^i'?^tS*si»^*4!p8«?^^ * ' 





•Aiki^'j^^i&^Mi^<Lj^.« . . ^--^^ '. >-^ 



STUFFED CUCUMBERS ROAST LOIN OF VEAL 




FRUIT PUNCH 




GRAPE JUICE 



planned for a liyTT A XQ 

Family of Four IVl-C/AJ-O 

allowing from fifteen to twenty minutes to the pound. Let it 
remain in the water until cold ; then skin it and cut in thin slices. 



BAKED HAM 

Soak and prepare the ham as for boiling. Boil slowly for several 
hours; take out the ham; remove the skin; trim off the black and 
smoked parts; paint all over with yolk of egg; sprinkle thicklj' 
with fine bread crumbs; put in the oven and bake for about an 
hour, basting frequently with a mixture of water and currant 
jelly. Trim the knuckle with paper ruffles and serve hot. 

FRIZZLED HAM 

Shave uncooked ham as thin as paper, fat and lean together; 
put in a frying pan over a quick fire; stir constantly until it begms 
to broT\Ti and curl. Add several tablespoons of boiling water; 
bring to a boil and serve. 

STEWED HAM 

Cut a thin slice of ham; divide into narrow strips two inches 
long; pour boiling water on it; let stand until cold; drain off the 
water and put the ham in a frying pan. Add a bunch of chopped 
parsley and about a cup of cream; stew for five minutes and serve. 

BROILED HAM 

Take a thin slice of ham; pare off the skin; remove the brown 
fat from the under side of the shoes and lay them on a gridiron 
over a hot fire. When the fat is slightly browned turn over and 
cook the other side in the same way. If the ham is very old and 
salty it should be stewed a few minutes before either broiling or 
frying. Let it simmer in a frying pan; pour off the water and dry 
oa a clean towel. 

HAM AND EGGS 
Have the slice of ham cut as thin as possible; place it in a 
heated pan and fry until it is slightly browned on both sides. 
Lift out the ham; break the eggs into the pan; season and let 
them fry until the whites are set. Remove them with a cake- 
turner; place over the ham and serve, garnished with parsley. 

86 



MEATS 



Planned for a 
Family of Four 



BACON AND EGGS 



Have the bacon cut Into very thin shces; put them in a frying 
pan over a slow lire imtil most of the fat is extracted. Remove 
the bacon; break the eggs into the pan carefully; season and cook 
until the whites are set; lift out with a cake-turner and serve 
immediately, garnished with the bacon. 

SALT PORK IN MILK 

1 pound salt pork 4 tablespoons fat 

2 cups skim milk 4 level tablespoons flour 

Cut the pork into thin slices; cover with hot water; let stand 
for ten minutes and drain. Score the rind of the slices; fry until 
a golden bro^Ti and serve in a milk sauce. Heat the flour in some 
of the fat that has been rendered in frying the pork; add the milk 
gradually; bring to a boil and pour over the slices of pork or 
empty into a gra\'y boat. 

MEAT POT-PIE 

Cut beef, chicken, or other meat into pieces; put in boiling 
water; cover and cook until tender, seasoning to taste. When 
the stew is done add drop dumplings and serve. 

A little chopped hard-boiled egg, parsley, bay leaf or other 
herb lends variety to the pot-pie. 

PIGS' FEET IN JELLY 

2 pair feet 1 teaspoon powdered allspice 

3 quarts cold water y^ teaspoon powdered cloves 
Salt and pepper Pincb of powdered mace 

1 cup vinegar 

Clean the feet and put them over the fire in the water. Boil 
slowly until the meat falls from the bones; strain through a 
colander; return the broth to the kettle and boil until reduced to 
one pint. Remove all the meat from the bones; cut it into small 
pieces and add the seasonings. When the broth is reduced, add 
the meat and vinegar; let simmer two or three minutes; then pom- 
into molds. Serve on the following day, emptying the molded 
jelly upon a platter and garnishing with parsley or other green. 

86 



Flanned for a TV/T'C A T^. 

FamUy of Four iViiJ/A X S> 

TRIPE 

Soak the tripe for several hours; scrape clean; put in salted 
water and simmer for three or four hours. Drain off the water 
and set the tripe aside until ready to use. To one cup of cream 
sauce add a half teaspoon of onion juice and a cup of the boiled 
tripe. Stir until the tripe is heated and serve. 

BROILED SWEETBREADS 

Wash the sweetbreads and blanch them for five minutes in 
boUing water; lay them in a greased oyster broiler over a bright 
fire, turning frequently and brushing with butter whenever turned. 
When done remove carefully to a platter; season with p»pper, 
salt and butter, and serve with peas. 

STEWED SWEETBREADS 

Wash the sweetbreads and blanch them for a few minutes in 
boiling water; then lay them in cold water for ten minutes. Put 
them in a saucepan with water to cover; stew until tender; add 
a piece of butter the size of an egg, rubbed into one tablespoon of 
fiour, a little chopped parsley and a cup of cream. Boil thre'^^ 
minutes and serve. 

STEV7ED KIDNEYS 

Beef, calf or lamb kidneys Vz tablespoon onion juice 

Flour % cup water 

1 tablespoon butter 2 tablespoons currant jelly 
Salt and pepper 

Be sure that the kidneys are fresh. Remove all fat and white 
center; then soak them for an hour in salted water. Cut into 
half-inch slices, dust with flour and saute in the butter for about 
five minutes. Add onion juice and water and simmer for about 
ten minutes. Add jelly, salt and pepper, and serve. 



8T 



TVynrATC Planned for a 

iVli2/A X O FamUy o* Four 



Planned for a 1IT17 A fo 

Family of Four M JlA 1 



H/nrATC; Planned ror a 

iVlJiii 1 O Family of Four 



POULTRY AND GAME 



POULTRY AND GAME 

TpOULTRY and game are, at least for those who live in the 
■l city, more expensive than the red meats, but they are fairly 
rich in nutritive value and wherever possible should be intro- 
duced into the menu — for the sake of variety if nothing else. 

In marketing, see that the bird is plump and not unduly fat. 
The skin should be clear and free from blotches and the flesh 
firm. Chickens have soft feet, soft breast bone and a great 
many pin feathers; fowl have rough feet, rigid breast bone and 
coarse, hairy skin. A spring chicken should be chosen for broil- 
ing or frying; a young chicken for roasting; a fowl for stewing. 
Capons are considered the choicest of poultry; cock turkeys are 
usually considered better than hen turkeys. 

TO DRESS POULTRY 

Pick off the pin feathers; singe over a gas burner or burning 
paper to remove the hairs; cut off the head. Cut the skin at the 
side of the leg joint and very lightly over the top, bending the foot 
back to loosen the ligaments on the upper part of the leg; pull 
out each separately, using a wooden skewer. Then cut through 
the tough muscle until the hard ligaments on the back are reached 
and pull them out in the same way. Remove the foot and treat 
the other leg in the same way. 

Make an incision below the breastbone just large enough to 
admit the hand. Keeping the fingers close to the breastbone 
reach carefully into the body until the heart is reached; loosen the 
membranes and remove the entrails. Be very careful not to break 
the gall bladder which hes imbedded in the liver, as even a slight 
break will make the whole chicken bitter. Save the heart, gizzard 
and liver; remove the gall bladder from the liver very carefully; 
cut the fat and membranes from the gizzard; make an incision 
through the muscle without cutting the little grist bag inside, and 
peel off the muscle; remove membranes and arteries from the 

7 93 



POULTRY AND GAME FamTolFou"r 

heart. Remove the kidneys and lungs which adhere closely to 
the body wall; then cut the skin on the under side of the throat 
and remove windpipe and crop ; remove the oil bag from the under 
side of the tail. Pull iown the neck skin and cut off the neck 
close to the body. 

Be sure that every particle is removed; then wash by letting 
water run through. Do not soak in water, as water draws out the 
juices; but if there is a disagreeable odor, wash thoroughly in soda 
water. Wipe inside and out. 

GIBLETS 

Heart, liver and gizzard constitute the giblets, and to these the 
neck is usually added. Wash them; put them in cold water and 
cook until tender. This will take several hours. Serve with the 
chicken; or mash the liver, mince the heart and gizzard and add 
them to the brown sauce. Save the stock in which they are 
cooked for making the sauce. 

TO TRUSS POULTRY 

Press the thighs and wings close against the body; fasten se- 
curely with skewers and tie with string. Draw the skin of the 
neck to the back and fasten it. 



TO STUPF POULTRY 

Use enough stuffing to fill the bird but do not pack it tightly or 
the stuffing will be soggy. Close the small openings with a skewer; 
sew the larger one with linen thread and a long needle. Remove 
skewers and strings before serving. 



ROAST CHICKEN 

Stuff and truss the chicken; season with pepper and dredge 
with flour. Put in a dripping pan with a little salt pork if the 
chicken is not especially fat. When heated add hot water and 
baste frequently. The oven should be hot and the time necessary 
for a large chiclcen will be about an hour and a half. When done, 
remove the chicken, pour off the grease and make a brown sauce 
in the pan. 

34 



pZSy of L'ur POULTRY AND GAME 

: STEWED CHICKEN 

Draw the chicken and divide it into pieces as follows: Cut 
through the loose skin between the leg and the body, bend the leg 
over and cut off at the joint; then cut through the flesh and sepa- 
rate the upper and lower parts of the leg at the joint. Do the 
same with the other leg; then cut off the wings. Make an in- 
cision in the skin near the vent and cut the membrane lying be- 
tween the breastbone and the tail, down to the backbone, on each 
side. Cut the ribs through the cartilage, separate the collar-bone 
and break the backbone just below the ribs. Separate the side 
bones from the back, and remove the bone from the breast. Never 
chop the bones, but divide them smoothly at the joints. 

Season the pieces with pepper and salt and cover with boiling 
water. Cover and stew gently until tender. Remove the chicken. 
Place the pieces in a colander on a plate in the oven to drain, and 
thicken the gravy by adding a tablespoon of floiu- rubbed with a 
tablespoon of butter. Add seasoning to taste, a little chopped 
parsley and milk to whiten. Beat an egg until light; pour on it 
part of the gravy, beating carefully to prevent lumps; return to the 
remainder of the gravy; bring to a boil and pour over the chicken 



BROILED CHICKEN 

After the chickens have been drawn, split through the back, 
flatten with a cleaver or chopper and lay on a heated gridiron over 
a bright fire. They must be constantly watched and turned sev- 
eral times. When done, lay on a hot platter, season with pepper, 
salt and butter, and serve with giblet sauce. 



PLANKED CHICKEN 

2 spring chickens V2 pound muslirooms 

1 cup boUed rice 1 glass guava jelly 

Stew the mushrooms; put the chicken either in the oven or 
under the broiler, bone side to the hottest part of the fire._ Heat 
the plank; put the chicken on, bone side down; dust with salt 
and pepper and broil on the board under the gas for half an hour; 
garnish with the rice; poiu- over the mushrooms. Place at the 
corners small bread patties, holding the guava jelly. 

95 



POULTRY AND GAME FamTol Four 

BARBECUED CHICKEN 

Prepare the chickens as for broiling; lay them in a dripping pan 
with the skin side up; season with pepper and salt and put in a 
hot oven. Cook for about three quarters of an hour, basting oc- 
casionally with butter and water. Serve with brown sauce made 
as for broiled chicken. 

FRIED CHICKEN 

Prepare young chickens, dividing them as for stewing; wash 
and drain but do not dry the pieces. Roll each thoroughly in 
flour mixed with salt and pepper. Drop in deep fat and fry until 
tender. 

If the chickens are not very young it will be safer to stew them 
before frying. 

CHICKEN FRICASSEE 

Prepare the chicken as for stewing ; put in a frying pan Avith a little 
water and cook slowly, adding salt when the chicken is half done. 
When nearly done, allow the water to boil away until the pan is 
almost dry; add butter or pork fat and saute the chicken until 
brown. Lay the pieces on toast; make a brown sauce in the pan 
and pour around them. 

This is a good way to serve fowls, which are made tender by the 
long cooking. 

CHICKEN PIE 

1 chicken Yolk of hard-boiled egg 

Salt and pepper 1/2 tablespoon parsley 

1 tablespoon flour 14 pound salt pork 
Pie crust 

Prepare the chicken as for fricassee; put the giblets in cold 
water and stew until nearly done; add the chicken; season with 
pepper and salt and simmer for twenty minutes. Remove with a 
skimmer and make a gravy of the broth by adding the flour, egg 
yolk and parsley. Line the sides of a deep baking pan with pie 
crust; place an inverted cup in the center; put in the chicken 
in layers covered with strips of salt pork and moistened with the 
gravy. Pour on the remainder of the gravy; cover with pie 
crust, making the edges as firm as possible and cutting a few 
slashes. Bake slowly for nearly an hour. 

96 



fSy of Four POULTRY AND GAME 



CHICKEN TERRAPIN 

1 chicken 1 cup chicken broth 
Salt and red pepper 1 cup cream 

2 blades mace Vi pound butter 

3 hard-boiled eggs 1 heaping tablespoon floiu 

2 tablespoons currant jelly 

Boil the chicken and giblets; when tender, cool thoroughly; 
cut into small pieces a half inch square. Put into a saucepan with 
the seasoning, chopped eggs and other ingredients, rubbing the 
flour in the butter first. Simmer for about ten minutes; add the 
jelly and serve. 

CHICKEN AND OYSTERS 

1 chicken Salt and pepper 

2 ovmces butter 2 hard-boiled eggs 

1 heaping tablespoon flour 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

50 oysters 

Stew the cliicken until tender ; drain it and set in the oven to 
keep hot. To the liquor add the butter in which the flour has 
been rubbed, the chopped eggs, seasoning and parsley. Drain 
the oysters; add them to the gravy; cook until the edges curl. 
Pour the gravy over the chicken and serve. 

ROAST DUCK 

Draw the ducks; stufi^, truss and roast the same as chicken. 
Serve with giblet sauce and currant jelly. If small, the ducks 
should be cooked in an hour. 

ROAST TURKEY 

Singe and clean the turkey the same as chicken. Fill with plain 
or oyster stufiing; roast and serve with giblet sauce and cranberry 
sauce. If the turkey is very large it will require three hours or 
longer; a small one will require only an hour and a half. Baste 
frequently, as turkey is apt to be more dry than chicken. 

PIGEON PIE 

Cleaia and cut each bird in four quarters. Line the sides of 
a deep baking dish with plain crust and put a layer of salt pork 
in the bottom. Then put in a layer of birds, seasoned with pep- 

97 



POULTRY AND GAME FamUyotFJur 

per and salt, dredged with flour and covered with small pieces of 
butter. Put in other layers to fill the dish; cover with thin shoes 
of pork; pour over all a cup or more of broth or water; cover 
with crust and bake for about an hour. Leave an opening in the 
center of the crust and if the pie seems dry, add more water. 

RABBIT 

The rabbit when bought should be fresh and the body free 
from unpleasant odor. If young, the paws and ears will be soft; 
if old, they will be stiff. 

Rabbit may be cooked in a variety of ways, as fricassee or pie, 
following the recipe for chicken, or broiled like chicken. 

Skin the rabbit; singe it; remove the entrails and wipe well 
inside and out with a damp cloth. Split it down the back, and 
unless it is to be broiled, divide each half into four pieces. 

PANNED RABBIT 

1 rabbit Salt and pepper 

2 eggs 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 
Little grated nutmeg V4 cup fine bread crumbs 

Divide the rabbit at the joints and stew until tender. Butter 
a pan and lay the pieces over the bottom. Beat the eggs; mix 
with the other ingredients and spread over the rabbit. Set in a 
hot oven and bake until brown. 



PARTRIDGES 

Partridges may be split and broiled or stuffed and roasted. Serve 
with giblet sauce to which a little currant jelly has been added. 



PHEASANTS 

Prepare, stuff and roast the same as chicken. Serve with cur- 
rant jelly and giblet sauce to which a little currant jelly has been 
added. 

GUINEA FOWLS 

Fill and serve like ducks with currant jelly or cranberry sauce. 

98 



?rufof°Fo''ur POULTRY AND GAME 



Family of Four 



REED BIRDS 



Clean the birds and dip each in beaten egg; roll in cracker dust 
which has been seasoned with pepper and salt, and fry in boiling- 
hot fat. Or broil the birds and serve them on toast with a little 
pepper and salt. 

QUAIL 

Quail may be boiled like chicken and served with currant jelly 
or roasted. For roasting truss the legs and wings to the body; 
cover the breast of each with a slice of bacon; and roast for 
fifteen or twenty minutes, basting frequently with a little water. 
Serve with giblet sauce to which a little currant jelly has been 
added. 

ROASTED GROUSE 

Clean the grouse the same as chicken; put a small piece of butter 
inside each bird and truss into shape. Roast in a hot oven twenty- 
five or thirty minutes, basting frequently with melted butter. 
Boil the liver until tender; mash it to a paste with butter and 
seasoning; spread over thin slices of buttered toast moistened 
with juice from the pan, and lay the grouse on these slices. 

HAUNCH OF VENISON ROASTED 

Wipe the meat carefully with a wet cloth and cover with a large 
sheet of buttered paper. Make a thick paste of flour and water; 
roll out three quarters of an inch thick; lay over the fat side of 
the haunch; cover with three or four sheets of thick white paper 
and tie seciu'ely with cord. Put in a dripping pan and roast, 
basting frequently to prevent the paper and string from burning. 
A haunch of tv.'elve poimds will require three hours to roast; a 
larger one longer. Half an hour before it is done, remove from the 
oven; cut the strings; take off paste and paper; dredge with 
flour, salt and pepper; return to the oven and roast to a fine 
brown. Serve with brown sauce to which a tablespoon of currant 
jelly has been added. 

NECK AND SHOULDER OF VENISON 
Season and roast *he same as mutton and serve with currant 

jelly. 

99 



POULTRY AND GAME FamTo'fFJur 

VENISON STEAK 

Have the steak cut half an inch thick; broil over a bright fire, 
turning frequently. When done, season with red pepper and salt. 
Melt over the fire a tablespoon of currant jelly with a piece of 
butter the size of an egg; pour over the steaks and serve. 



lOO 



RlSS^Vf-L^ur POULTRY AND GAME 



101 



POULTRY AND GAME FfX"olF°ou? 



102 



FORCEMEATS, STUFFINGS, ETC. 



FORCEMEATS, STUFFINGS, ETC. 

FORCEMEATS are useful for filling timbales and for garnishing 
other dishes. When intended for balls, the consistency should 
be tested by poaching a small quantity in boiling water. If too 
thin, more bread cnmibs should be added. 

Stuffings are too common to need any introduction. They are 
what make roast poultry palatable to most people, and a good 
stuflSng is an addition to any roasted or baked meat. 

QUENELLES 

Quenelles are made from any kind of forcemeat shaped into 
balls or ovals and cooked in boiling salted water. They are served 
as a garnish to soups or other dishes. 

CHICKEN FORCEMEAT 

3/4 cup raw chicken meat White of 1 egg 

1/2 cup fine bread crumbs Salt and red pepper 

1/2 cup milk Dash of nutmeg 

2 tablespoons butter 

Chop the chicken very fine and press through a sieve. Cook 
the bread and milk to a paste; add the butter, eggs and seasonings, 
and mix with the chicken. 

HAM FORCEMEAT 



1 


oimce ham 




Grated rind of '/^ lemon 


2 


oimces suet 




Dash of nutmeg 


2 


oimces fine bread crumbs 




Pinch of mace 


1 


teaspoon chopped parsley 




1 egg 


Vi 


teaspoon mixed herbs 




2 tablespoons milk 




Salt and 


pepper 





Chop the ham and suet fine; mix the dry ingredients; add the 
egg; season to taste; mix well and use as required. 

106 



FORCEMEATS, STUFFINGS, ETC. Fi'X°olFour 

VEAL FORCEMEAT 

V4 pound lean veal 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

2 oimces beef suet 1 teaspoon onion juice 

2 ounces fine bread crumbs Dash of nutmeg 
Salt and pepper 2 tablespoons niilk 

14 teaspoon grated lemon rind 1 egg 

Chop the veal and suet very fine; mix the dry ingredients 
thoroughly; add milk and egg; season to taste and use. 

BEEF FORCEMEAT 

V2 pound lean beef i/i teaspoon sweet bas 

Vi pound suet i^ teaspoon thyme 

1/2 cup fine bread crumbs Vi teaspoon chopped parsley 

Vi teaspoon sweet marjoram Salt and pepper 

1 egg 

Chop the beef and suet very fine; add the crumbs and season- 
ings; mix well and add the beaten egg. 

FORCEMEAT FOR BAKED FISH 

3 ounces bread crumbs Salt and pepper 

1 teaspoon savory herbs Dash of mace 

8 oysters 6 tablespoons milk 

2 ounces suet Yolks of two eggs 

Chop the oysters; mix well with the other ingredients and stir 
over the fire until the mixture thickens ; stuff the fish and sew up 
opening. 

STUFFING FOR BAKED FISH 

1 cup broken bread 1 teaspoon chopped parsley 

1 tablespoon minced onion Vi teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons butter 1/2 saltspoon pepper 

1 egg 

Soak the bread and press out the water; brown the onion in 
the butter; add it with the seasoning to the crumbs; then add 
the egg. 

OYSTER STUFFING 

15 oysters 2 cups broken bread 

1/2 tablespoon chopped parsley 2 tablespoons melted butter 

1/2 teaspoon sweet marjoram Salt and pepper 

Wash the oysters; drain them; mix thoroughly with the other 
ingredients and use. 



^SguyVf°L^ur FORCEMEATS, STUFFINGS, ETC. 

BREAD STUFFING 

2 tablespoons butter 1 teaspoon salt 

1 onion Vi teaspoon black pepper 

3 cups broken bread 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

1 teaspoon sweet marjoram 

Slice the onion and cook it in the butter; mix thoroughly with 
the other ingredients and use. If onion is not liked, omit it and 
merely melt the butter before mixing. 



POTATO STUFFING 

2 cups hot boiled potatoes 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

1/2 tablespoon onion juice 1 tablespoon butter 

1 teaspoon salt 5 tablespoons cream 

Vi teaspoon black pepper Yolks of 2 eggs 

Mash the potatoes; mix thoroughly with the other ingredients 
and use. Be sure that the potatoes are well drained and mealy, 
or the stuffing will be soggy. 



DRIPPINGS 

Save any scraps or pieces of fat; cut into half -inch cubes; 
put in a pan and cover with cold water. Place in a moderate 
oven or on the back of the stove and cook slowly until the scraps 
are all brown and the water evaporated; cool slightly; strain 
and set away to cool. 

Several slices of raw potato put with the fat will aid in the 
clarifying. 

All kinds of fats are good for drippings except mutton fat, 
turkey fat and fat from smoked meats. 

GERMAN SUETINE 

Cut the suet into small pieces and cover with water. Let 
it soak for about a day, changing the water once. Drain it 
and put in an iron kettle with a half cup of skim milk to every 
pound of suet. Cook slowly until all sound of boiling ceases; 
cool slightly and pour off. 

This fat has no unpleasant taste or odor and in many recipes 
may be substituted for all or part of the butter. It is also useful 
in frying. 

107 



FORCEMEATS, STUFFINGS, ETC. FamX°olF°ou; 

PREPARED BREAD CRUMBS 

Break stale bread into small pieces; place these with whatever 
crumbs you have upon a tin plate in a moderate oven. When 
broT\Ti and crisp, roll them fine or run them through a meat chopper 
and put them away until needed in a covered glass jar. 

Cracker crumbs may be prepared in the same way. 

CARAMEL 

1 cup sugar 1 tablespoon water 

1 cup boiling watet 

Melt the sugar with the tablespoon of water over the fire and 
stir until it becomes a dark brown; add the boiling water; boii 
for one minute; bottle and use to color sauces, soups, custards, etc. 



lUi 



SAUCES 



SAUCES 

THE preparation of a sauce is of as much importance as the 
preparation of a dish itself and is frequently the supreme 
test of the cook's skill. Some of the famous cooks of history, 
like Bechamel, the celebrated chef of Louis XIV, for instance, 
are remembered chiefly through a sauce of their own invention. 

The foundation for almost aU of the common sauces is what 
the French call "mux." This is butter and flour cooked together 
and thinned with milk, water or other hquid. Under no circum- 
stances should a sauce be thickened by adding a mixture of flour 
and water, as in this case the flour is seldom well cooked, or by 
adding flour alone, as this method is certain to cause lumps. 
The flour should be allowed to cook before the liquid is added. 

BROWN SAUCE 

1 tablespoon butter or fat 1 cup stock 

1 tablespoon flovir Salt and pepper 

Brown the flour in the butter, stirring it until smooth; then add 
the seasoning and the stock, stirring constantly to prevent lumps. 

If the sauce is to be served with a roast, use a little of the fat in 
which the meat was roasted instead of the butter and make the 
sauce in the roasting pan. For those who like the flavor of onion 
it is a good plan to roast an onion with the meat, adding it to the 
sauce. 

Onion juice, Worcestershire sauce, tomato catsup or mushroom 
catsup may be added as flavoring if desired. 

GIBLET SAUCE 

If brown sauce is to be served with roast chicken or turkey, boil 
the giblets three or four hours; mash or chop them, and add them 
to the sauce. 

Ill 



o A TTr'tr C* Planned for a 

DA U Cr/O Family of Four 

SAUCE PIQUANTE 

1 cup brown sauce 1 tablespoon chopped capers 

1 tablespoon vinegar 1 tablespoon chopped pickle 

1 tablespoon chopped onion Vi teaspoon tarragon vinegar 

Make the brown sauce; add the other ingredients and serve. 

BREAD SAUCE 

1/2 cup dry bread crumbs 1 tablespoon butter 

1 cup milk '/4 teaspoon salt 

/^- 14 small onion sliced Dash of pepper 

Dash of nutmeg 

Have the crumbs very fine and dry; put them on the fire with 
the milk and onion. Bring to aboil; press through a sieve ; return 
to the fire; add the butter and seasoning and serve. This is used 
with partridges, quail and grouse. 

CREAM SAUCE 

1 tablespoon butter 1 cup milk 

1 tablespoon flour 1/2 teaspoon salt 

Dash of red or black pepper 

Melt the butter, being careful not to brown it; add the flour; 
stir until smooth; then add the milk gradually, stirring constantly 
until it boils. Season and use at once. 

CREAM SAUCE WITH MUSHROOMS 

Make a cream sauce; add one cup of fresh mushrooms, finely 
chopped; cook for ten minutes and serve. 

EGG SAUCE 

Make a cream sauce; add two hard-boiled eggs, the whites, 
finely chopped and the yolks pressed through a sieve. 

MINT SAUCE 

3 tablespoons chopped mint 2 tablespoons powdered sugar 

leaves % cup vinegar 

Have the mint very fine; mix it with the sugar ; add the vinegar; 
stir well together and serve with roast lamb. If desired hot, heat 
the vinegar and sugar, and add the mint just before serving. 

112 



Planned for a C ATTr'TTG 

Family of Four i3iiUV^i:*0 

CURRY SAUCE 

1 tablespoon chopped onion 1 teaspoon curry powder 

1 tablespoon butter 1 cup boiling water 

1 tablespoon flour 1/2 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon lemon juice 

Cook the onion in the butter until it is sHghtly browned; add 
the curry powder and flour and mix thoroughly. Add the water 
gradually; bring to a boil; add salt and lemon juice; strain and 
serve. 

MAlTRE D'HOTEL BUTTER 

2 tablespoons butter Dash of pepper 

Vi teaspoon salt 1/2 tablespoon chopped parsley 

1 tablespoon lemon juice 

Work the butter until creamy; add seasoning and parsley, then 
the lemon juice slowly, and mix until thoroughly smooth. Serve 
with broiled fish or shad roe. 

DRAWN BUTTER 

2 tablespoons butter ' 1 cup boiling water 

1 tablespoon flour 1/2 teaspoon salt 

Melt the butter in a saucepan over the fire; stir in the flour; 
mix thoroughly, but do not brown; add salt and the water gradu- 
ally, stirring aU the time to prevent lumps. Bring to a boil and 
serve. 

SAUCE HOLLANDAISE 

1 "cup drawn butter Juice of 1/2 lemon 

Yolks of 2 eggs 1 teaspoon onion juice 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

Make a drawn-butter sauce; remove it from the fire and add 
gradually the yolks of the eggs, well beaten. Stir in the lemon and 
onion juice and the chopped parsley. This is served with baked 
fish or fish croquettes. 

TARTARE SAUCE 

1/2 cup Mayonnaise dressing V2 tablespoon chopped oliyes 

1/2 tablespoon capers 1/2 tablespoon chopped pickle 

Chop the capers, olives and pickle very fine and add them to the 
dressing. Serve with fried fish or cold meat dishes. 

113 



CATTr'T7C Planned for a 

OAU^XI/O Family of Four 



Family of Four 



TOMATO SAUCE 



1 cup cooked tomatoes V^ teaspoon salt 

1 bay leaf 1 teaspoon onion juice 

Dash of red pepper 1 tablespoon butter 

1 tablespoon flour 

Add the seasonings to the tomatoes and let them boil for a few 
minutes. Melt the butter in a separate saucepan; stir in the flour; 
then slowly add the tomatoes, strained. Bring to a boil and serve. 

CREAM OF TOMATO SAUCE 

Make a plain cream sauce and just before serving add a cup of 
hot cooked tomatoes, strained. Add a pinch of soda to the toma- 
toes before mixing them. 

ANCHOVY SAUCE 

3 anchovies 1/2 tablespoon catsup 

1 tablespoon butter Dash of red pepper 

1/2 tablespoon flour 1/2 cup boiling water 

1 tablespoonful lemon juice 

Bone the anchovies and pound them to a paste. Melt the 
butter; stir in the flour and when smooth add the anchovies, 
pepper and catsup. Mix well; pour the hot water over all; boil 
two minutes, stirring constantly; add the lemon juice and serve 
with boiled or baked fish. 

WHITE SAUCE 

1 tablespoon butter 1 cup white stock 

1 tablespoon flour 1/2 teaspoon salt 

Dash of red pepper 

Make exactly the same as cream sauce, modifying it if desired 
by the addition of other flavorings. 

HORSERADISH SAUCE 

1/2 cup milk 1 tablespoon butter 

1 tablespoon cracker crumbs 1 tablespoon horseradish 

Salt to taste 

Heat the milk with the cracker crumbs in a double boiler; add 
the other ingredients; boil several minutes and serve with boiled 
beef. 

114 



Planned for a O A TTr'U' O 

Family of Four O A U L-iiO 

MUSHROOM SAUCE 

6 mushrooms Juice of 1/2 lemon 

1/2 tablespoon butter 1 tablespoon mushroom catsup 

Salt and red pepper Vi cup stock 

1/2 teaspoon flour 

Clean the mushrooms; cut them into small pieces; put them 
in a saucepan with the butter, salt and pepper, lemon juice and 
catsup; stew until tender; add the stock and the flour mixed with 
a little cold water; bring all to a boil and serve with beefsteak 
or game. 

OYSTER SAUCE 

25 oysters 1 pint cream sauce 

Drain the oysters, saving the juice, and wash them. Strain 
the juice; bring it to a boil; skim and add the oysters. Cook 
imtil the edges of the oysters begin to curl and at the moment of 
serving add to the cream sauce. Add more seasoning if desired, 
but do not add it imtil the sauce is removed from the fire, as salt 
is apt to make the mixture curdle. 

SAUCE SUPREME 

1 tablespoon butter 1 cup chicken stock 

1 tablespoon flour V2 teaspoon lemon juice 

1 tablespoon hot cream 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

Salt and pepper 

Melt the butter, but do not brown it; add the flour as in cream 
sauce, then the cream and stock gradually, and the seasoning and 
lemon juice after it is taken from the fire. 

CAPER SAUCE 

1 tablespoon butter 1 teaspoon onion juice 

1 tablespoon flour V^ teaspoon salt 

1 cup meat broth Dash of pepper 

I tablespoon capers 

Melt the butter; add the flour, then the broth and seasoning, 
stirring to prevent lumps. When it boils, add the capers; stand 
over hot water for ten minutes and serve. 

115 



o A TTr'lj'C Planned for a 

OAU \^J10 Family of Four 



CELERY SAUCE 

1 stalk celery 1 cup salted water 

1 cup cream sauce 

Wash the celery and cut it into pieces one half inch long. Let 
it cook in the salted water until tender; drain thoroughly; stir 
the cream sauce into it; bring to a boil and serve with poultry or 
game. 

BECHAMEL SAUCE 

1 tablespoon butter 1/2 cup cream 

1 tablespoon flour Vi teaspoon salt 

1/2 cup white stock Dash of pepper 

Melt the butter; cook thoroughly with the flour; add the stock 
gradually, then the cream and seasoning. 

CRANBERRY SAUCE 

1 pint cranberries l^i cups water 

Sugar 

Put the cranberries on with the water and cook until soft; strain 
through a cloth; weigh and add three fourths of a pound of sugar 
to every pint of juice. Cook ten minutes; pour into molds and 
set aside to cool. Serve with poultry, game or mutton. 

STEWED CRANBERRIES 

3 cups cranberries li/^ cups sugar 

1 cup water 

Boil together the sugar and water for seven minutes; then add 
the cranberries, well washed and picked, and cook until the berries 
burst. Serve the same as cranberry sauce. 

JELLY SAUCE 

1 tumbler currant or grape jelly 1 tablespoon butter 

1 tablespoon lemon juice 

Melt the jelly, adding the butter slowly. Boil for one minute 
and just before serving add the lemon. This is served with game, 
lamb or mutton. 

116 



Planned for a Q A TTr"irC 

Family of Four OAUI^JIO 

APPLE SAUCE 

Pare and quarter tart apples. Put them in a saucepan with 
just enough water to keep them from burning; bring to a boil 
quickly and cook until the pieces are soft. Then press through a 
colander and add four tablespoons of sugar (or less) to each pint 
of apples. 

If desired, cinnamon or grated nutmeg may be sprinkled over 
the top after the apple sauce is in the serving dish, or a little stick 
cinnamon or lemon peel may be cooked with the apples. Serve 
with goose or pork. 



117 



Q A TTr'TJ'C Planned for » 

O/iUt-zJlO Family of Four 



EGGS 



EGGS 

EGGS and the foods into which they enter are favorite articles 
of diet in the majority of households. They are an agree- 
able substitute for meat, and, judged by their composition and 
digestibility, are worthy of the high esteem in which they are 
held. They are also valuable from an economical standpoint, 
for even when high in price they usually make a cheaper dish 
than meat. 

BOILED EGGS 

Soft-boiled eggs may be prepared in two ways. The eggs may 
be dropped carefully into boiling water and boiled three minutes, 
or they may be placed in a covered vessel of boiling water and 
allowed to stand in a warm place (but not on the stove) for ten 
minutes. Eggs prepared in this way are sometimes called "Cod- 
dled Eggs." They are much more delicate and digestible than 
the usual "Boiled Eggs." 

Hard-boiled eggs should be cooked in boiling water for fifteen 
or twenty minutes and then dropped in cold water to prevent the 
yolk from turning dark. 

POACHED EGGS 

Bring salted water to a boil in a shallow vessel; remove from the 
fire and slip the eggs carefully into it, breaking each into a small 
saucer first. Place the pan over a moderate fire and let the water 
come slowly to a boil. By this time the whites of the eggs should 
be delicately set Lift the eggs carefully; trim off the ragged 
edges and serve on slices of buttered toast. 

FRIED EGGS 

Melt in a frying-pan a large piece of butter; or use the fat 
of ham or bacon. When hot, drop in the eggs, one at a time, 
being careful not to break the yolk. When the white of the egg 

121 



■CTT'G Planned for a 

E.<jVjO Family of Four 

is set they are done, though some persons like them turned over 
and cooked on the other side. Remove from the pan with a cake- 
turner and serve at once. 

SHIRRED EGGS 

Eggs may be shirred in one large baking dish or pan, but are 
better and look more tempting in individual ramekins or custard 
cups. Place a small piece of butter in the bottom of each; break 
the egg; drop it in without breaking the yolk; season with pepper 
and salt and put another small piece of butter on the top. Bake 
in a hot oven until the white is set, and serve immediately. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS 

4 eggs 1/2 tablespoon butter 

4 tablespoons milk or water Salt and pepper 

Break the eggs in a bowl and beat them thoroughly; add the 
milk and seasoning and beat again. Melt the butter in a frying- 
pan over the fire; poiu" in the eggs; stir occasionally but not con- 
stantly until they thicken; then serve at once. 

GRIDDLED EGGS 

Heat a griddle as if for baking cakes; butter it lightly and ar- 
range small muffin rings on it. Drop an egg in each and turn as 
soon "as lightly browned. Griddled eggs resemble fried eggs but 
are far more delicate. 

CURRIED EGGS 

6 hard-boiled eggs 1/2 teaspoon salt 

1 cup curry sauce V4 teaspoon pepper 

Cut the eggs in half and slice enough of the white off the end of 
each to make them stand upright. Sprinkle with salt and pepper 
and serve on a hot platter with the sauce poured around them. 

, PLAIN OMELET 

4 eggs Salt and pepper 

4 tablespoons milk or water Vi tablespoon butter 

Beat the eggs very light, yolks and whites separately; then fold 
the whites into the yolks. Add the seasoning and milk. Melt 

122 



Planned for a T7/~* /"* C 

Family of Four r!*VJVJO 

the butter in a frying-pan; pour in the omelet; brown carefully; 
fold over and serve on a hot platter. Garnish with parsley or 
olives. 

HAM OMELET 

Make the same as plain omelet, adding one half cup of minced 
ham after the omelet is in the pan. When folded over and served 
the ham will be completely concealed. 

SAVORY OMELET No. 1 

6 eggs 2 teaspoons chopped onion 

2 teaspoons chopped parsley Salt and red pepper 

2 tablespoons grated cheese 

Beat the yolks of the eggs thoroughly with the seasonings ; beat 
the whites to a stiff froth and fold them into the yolks. Pour into 
a buttered pudding dish; sprinkle with grated cheese; bake for 
about fifteen minutes and serve at once. 

SAVORY OMELET No. 2 

6 eggs 1 tablespoon butter 

Vi teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

1/2 saltspoon pepper 1 tablespoon chopped onion 

2 tablespoons gravy 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

Break the eggs into a bowl; add the salt and pepper and gravy 
and beat well. Put the butter in the pan and when hot pour in 
the egg mixture. Add the parsley and onion; cook until a light 
brown; fold over and serve, pouring on the lemon juice after the 
omelet is on the platter. Garnish with parsley or slices of lemon. 

RICE OMELET 

u- 1 cup milk 3 eggs 

I cup cold boiled rice 2 tablespoons butter 

1/2 teaspoon salt 

Warm the milk in a double boiler; add the rice and one table- 
spoon of butter; mix thoroughly; then add the eggs, well-beaten, 
and seasoning. Melt the other tablespoon of butter in a frying- 
pan and when hot turn into it the rice mixture. Lei it brown 
slightly; put in the oven until it is "set"; fold over and serve 
garnished with parsley. 

123 



"p/^^Q Planned for a 

J:/VJVJ0 Family of Four 

SWEET OMELET 

4 eggs 4 teaspoons powdered sugar 

4 tablespoons milk Vz tablespoon butter 

4 tablespoons marmalade or jelly 

Make the same as plain omelet, adding the marmalade or jelly 
just before the omelet is folded over. Sprinkle with sugar and 
serve garnished with preserved cherries or candied fruit. 

CRUMB OMELET 

1/2 cup grated bread crumbs Salt and pepper 

1/2 cup cream 1/2 teaspoon chopped parsley 

3 eggs 1/2 teaspoon chopped onion 

1 tablespoon butter 

Beat the eggs separately and then together; season and add 
the parsley and onion. Pour the cream over the bread crumbs 
and mix them with the eggs; empty all into a hot pan in which 
the butter has already been melted; spread evenly over the pan; 
brown carefully; fold one half over the other; lift to a hot platter 
and serve, garnished with parsley or slices of small white onion. 

TOMATO OMELET 

2 large ripe tomatoes 2 tablespoons butter 

1 teaspoon flour 3 eggs 

Peel the tomatoes; chop them fine; season with pepper and 
salt; dust with the flour; mix it in so that there are no lumps; 
then add a tablespoon of butter, melted. Beat the eggs, separately 
and then together; add them to the tomatoes and mix well. Put 
a second tablespoon of butter in a frying-pan; pour in the omelet; 
brown slowly ; fold over and serve on a hot dish garnished with 
parsley or slices of red tomato. 

CORN OMELET 

4 eggs Salt and red pepper 

2 ears com 1 tablespoon butter 

Beat the yolks and whites of the eggs separately and then to- 
gether; grate the corn and add it to the eggs with the seasoning. 
Melt the butter in a frying-pan; pour in the omelet; brown care- 
fully; double over and serve. 

124 



Planned for a 1?/^ /^ CJ 

Family of Four iJ/VjVjO 

OYSTER OMELET 

Make the same as the corn omelet, substituting one dozen finely 
chopped oysters for the corn. 

CODFISH OMELET 

1 cup shredded codfish Dash of red pepper 

2 eggs Vi tablespoon butter 
1 cup milk 1/2 tablespoon flour 

Cover the codfish with cold water; cook half an hour in a closely 
covered pan; strain through a colander and return to the pan. 
Beat the eggs, separately and then together with the milk; add 
the red pepper and pour over the codfish. Rub the butter and 
flour together; stir it into the fish and egg; cook gently until it 
thickens and serve at once. 

CHEESE OMELET 

4 eggs V4 pound cheese or less 

4 tablespoons milk Red pepper and salt 

1 tablespoon butter 

Beat the whites and yolks of the eggs separately; stir them to- 
gether; then add the milk. Place the butter in a frying-pan over 
the fire, and when it is hot pour the mixture in, sprinkling it with 
salt and red pepper. Then add the cheese, which should be grated 
or broken into small pieces. Brown the omelet carefully; fold 
over and serve, garnished with olives or parsley. It is better if 
the cheese does not melt, but is simply heated through. 

BAKED OMELET 

1 tablespoon butter 1 cup miUc 

1 tablespoon flour 6 eggs 

Vi teaspoon salt 

Put the butter in a pan over the fire; when melted add the flour; 
mix well; then add the milk gradually, stirring until thick and 
smooth. Add the salt and set aside to cool. Beat the eggs, yolks 
and whites separately; fold first yolks and then whites into the 
cream sauce; pour into a baking dish, and bake in a moderale 
oven for about fifteen minutes. Serve at once. 
9 125 



EGGS 



Planned for a 
Family ol Foui 



BAKED EGGS A LA MARTIN 



2 tablespoons butter 1 level teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons flour 6 eggs 

1 pint milk V2 cup grated cheese 

Red pepper 

Make cream sauce as for baked omelet; pour half of it into a 
baking dish; break over it six eggs, and cover them with the re- 
maining half of the sauce. Sprinkle red pepper and the grated 
cheese over the top and bake in a moderate oven for ten or fifteen 
minutes. 

WELSH RAREBIT 

2 cups grated cheese Vz cup milk 
Yolks of 2 eggs Salt and red pepper 

4 slices buttered toast 

Place the milk in a pan over a moderate fire; when hot, add 
the cheese; stir until the cheese is thoroughly melted; then add 
the eggs and seasoning and pour over the toasted bread. 

GOLDEN BUCK 

1 cup milk 1/2 teaspoon salt 

2 cups grated cheese Dash of red pepper 
14 teaspoon mustard 6 squares toast 

6 poached eggs 

Let the milk come to the boiling point; add the cheese; then 
the mustard, pepper and salt. Have the poached eggs ready on a 
platter and as soon as the cheese is melted pour the mixture around, 
not over the eggs. Garnish with parsley. 

OX EYES 

4 rotmd slices bread Pinch of salt 

1 beaten egg Vz cup milk 

4 eggs 

Cut the bread two inches thick; remove the crust and with a 
I round biscuit-cutter take the center out of each slice. Add the 
'milk and salt to the beaten egg; place the bread in a buttered 
baking dish and baste with the egg and milk. Break an egg in 
the center of each slice; place in a hot oven and bake until the 
whites of the eggs are set. 

126 



Planned for a VffC' 

Family of Four liVjljO 

BIRDS' NESTS 

Have prepared slices of buttered toast, and on each slice put 
the beaten white of an egg in the shape of a bird's nest. In the 
center place the yolk, seasoning with a small piece of butter, 
pepper and salt. Bake in a quick oven until the whites are deh- 
cately browned. 

KEDGAREE 

Vi cup codfish Dash of red pepper 

V2 cup boiled rice Vi teaspoon onion juice 

4 eggs 

Soak the codfish in cold water; drain; place over the fire in 
fresh water; bring to a boil and drain again. Mix with the rice; 
add the seasoning; place in a hot buttered pan and stir until tbi? 
entire mixture is heated. Then add the eggs, well beaten; cook 
for a minute and serve. 

BEAUREGARD EGGS 

6 eggs s 1 cup cream sauce 

6 slices buttered toast 

Put the eggs in the water over the fire and let them boil for fif- 
teen or twenty minutes. Prepare the toast and set it in the oven 
to keep hot. Remove the eggs from their shells; cut them in 
halves lengthwise or chop them fine and put them over the teas*;. 
Make a cream sauce; pour over all; garnish with parsley and 
serve. 

EGGS JAPANESE 

6 eggs Vz teaspoon onion jiuce 

4 sardines Salt and pepper 

1 teaspoon anchovy paste 2 cups boiled rice 

1 cup cream sauce 

Boil the eggs for fifteen minutes; remove the shells and cut 
them in halves lengthwise. Take out the yolks; mash them; mix 
with the sardines, minced; add the seasoning and return to the egg 
cavities. Place the rice in a mound on a heated platter; on it 
arrange the eggs; cover all with cream sauce; garnish with parsley 
and serve. 

127 



EGGS 



Planned for a 
Family of Four 



SPANISH EGGS 

l^ 2 slices onion 2 tablespoons tongue 

1 tablespoon olive oil Dash of red pepper 

2 cups mushrooms 1 saltspoon salt 
1 cup cooked tomatoes 3 eggs 

Cook the onion in the oil until light brown; add the mushrooms, 
tomatoes, seasoning and tongue, minced fine. Last of all, add the 
eggs, unbeatep. As soon as the eggs are set the mixture is ready 
to serve. 



128 



Planned for a „ „ „ , 

Family of Four EGGS 



129 



TiTinC! Planned for a 

JZ/VTVJO Family of Four 



130 



MEAT SUBSTITUTES 



MEAT SUBSTITUTES 

IN the majority of households meat is still the central article 
of every meal; but there is an almost universal desire to 
decrease the amount of meat consumed, if not totally to ehmi- 
nate it from the diet. The desire arises partly from thirst for 
variety, partly from reasons of economy, and partly from a grow- 
ing distaste for animal food. Whatever the reason, the housewife 
is obliged to turn more and more to her list of meat -substitute 
dishes. Eggs have already been treated in a previous chapter, 
but they are by no means the only substitutes. 

Foods which are served in place of meat should be rich in 
protein and fat and should also be savory. Cheese naturally 
suggests itself, for it contains nearly twice as much protein, weight 
for weight, as beef of average composition, and its fuel value is 
almost twice as great. In view of these facts it seems strange 
that it is not more widely used. One reason is, doubtless, that 
cheese is generally considered indigestible and liable to cause 
constipation; but investigations of the United States Depart- 
ment of Agriculture have happily disproved this as well as many 
other current superstitions in regard to food. 

Care, however, should be exercised in planning meals in which 
cheese is employed as a substitute for meat. As cheese dishes 
are inclined to be somewhat "heavy," they should be offset by 
crisp, waterjr vegetables, watercress, celery, lettuce, fruit salads 
and light desserts, preferably fresh or cooked fruit. Another 
point, too, is to be considered. Whether raw or cooked, cheese 
seems to call for the harder kinds of bread — crusty rolls or bis- 
cuit, zwieback, toast, pulled bread or hard crackers. 

Dried peas, beans and lentils are also excellent substitutes for 
meat. Since they contain as much protein as meat and since 

133 



MEAT SUBSTITUTES 



Planned for a 
Family of Four 



their fuel value is almost equal to that of cheese, it is not sur- 
prising to find that they are extensively used among all people 
who, either from necessity or choice, eat little or no meat. The 
impoverished Mexican uses at almost every meal the native bean 
or frijole, made palatable with green vegetables and chile or red 
pepper. There is a Hindoo proverb, "Rice is good, but lentils 
are my life," showing in what esteem the protein of the lentil 
was held even among ancient peoples. 

There is, of course, the objection commonly raised to the indi- 
gestibility of these foods, and they can hardly be recommended 
for persons with delicate stomachs. Rightly prepared, however, 
and eaten in moderate quantities, they cannot be considered 
indigestible in the ordinary sense of the word. The removal of 
the skin aids greatly to increase the digestibility and hinders the 
formation of gas. 

Nuts also may be employed as substitutes for meat; for they 
are very rich in oil, with only a small percentage of starch and 
sugar, and are also rich in nitrogen. And though frequently 
indigestible when taken by themselves, if properly combined 
with other foods they should be capable of digestion by any 
normal person. , 

DINNERS WITHOUT MEAT 

Monday 
Black Bean Soup 

Baked PoiATOEa 

Tuesday 

Vegetable Sodp 



Baked Omelet 
I.EMON Meringue 



Cauliflower Salad 



Lentils a la Creole 

Coffee Jelly 

Wednesday 
Peach Cocktail 
Baked Macaroni with Cheese 

Lettuce Salad 
Stewed Fruit 

Coffee 

134 



Creamed Onions 

Coffee 

Mashed Potatoes 
Peanut Cakes 

Stewed Onions 
Sponqe Cake 



Planned for a 



Fami^TfF''ou? MEAT SUBSTITUTES 



Thursday 

Cream op Tomato Soup 

Cheese Omelet Creamed Potatoes 

Asparagus 
Frozen Strawberries Wafers 

Friday 

Cream of Asparagus Soup 
Boston Baked Beans Brown Bread 

Green Peas 

Fruit Salad 
Nuts Crackers Cream Cheese 

Saturday 

Vegetable Soup 

Corn and Cheese Souffl^ 

Candied Sweet Potatoes Scalloped Tomatoes 

Watercress 
French Tart Coffee 

Sunday 

Cream of Corn Soup 

Nut Roast Baked Rice 

Green Peas 

GRAPE-FRmT Salad 

Maple Mousse Kisses 



DRIED PEAS, BEANS AND LENTILS 

The dried legumes are excellent if properly cooked, and form a 
palatable dish if simply boiled until tender and seasoned with but- 
ter, pepper and salt. 

The first important step is the swelling and softening of the 
legume by soaking in water a number of hours, usually not less 
than eight, and the removal of such parts as will not soften by 
cooking. The skin of the ripened pea and lentil is easily removed, 
and both peas and lentils are therefore more easily prepared than 
beans. Many kinds of beans, however, after proper soaking may 
be freed from their skins by stirring in water. The skins rise to 
the top and can be skimmed off. The large liraa beans after 
soaking may easily be slipped out of the skins by pressing them 
between the fingers. 

Soft water should be used for both soaking and boiling the 
legumes; but if neither is available, simply boil the water before 
using and pour it from the sediment. In soaking beans baking 
soda may be used to soften the water (using a quarter teaspoon 
of soda dissolved in one quart of water to every pound of beans). 



MEAT SUBSTITUTES FamXll Fo^ur 

as it Increases the digestibility of the beans and does not destroy 
the flavor. 

Dried peas, beans and lentils are better if cooked slowly all day. 
If desired, the flavor may be improved by the addition of onion, 
flavoring herbs or meat stock. The legumes may be left whole or 
mashed through a sieve. In either case they will be greatly im- 
proved by the addition of butter and abundant seasoning; the 
salt should be cooked with them, allowing one half tablespoon for 
one pint of beans, and the pepper added with the butter. 

LENTILS A LA CREOLE 

1/2 cup lentils 1 small onion 

1 tablespoon butter 1 cup tomatoes 

1 green pepper Salt and pepper 

1 cup boiled rice 

Let the lentils soak over night in water, adding a pinch of bak- 
ing soda if the water is hard. In the morning, drain; cover with 
fresh water and let simmer for one half hour; draia again; cover 
with hot water and let simmer slowly until the lentils are tender. 
Put the butter In a saucepan and melt; add the pepper and onion, 
both finely chopped; stir and cook until the butter Is browned. 
Add the tomatoes, canned or raw; season to taste; and into them 
empty the lentils after they have been drained and mashed through 
a colander. Cook slowly for about thirty minutes; pour into a 
deep platter and surround with a border of rice. 

BAKED LENTILS 

1 pint lentils 1/2 small onion 

1 pint water 1/2 teaspoon salt 

3 ounces salt pork V4 teaspoon pepper 

Pick and wash the lentils and soak them in cold water over 
night. In the morning put them over the fire in a large saucepan 
with about a quart of water. As soon as the water begins to boil 
the lentils will rise to the top. Remove them with a skimmer; 
put them in a deep baking dish with the pork and onion in the 
center, and pour over them the pint of boiling water, in which the 
salt and pepper have been mixed. Bake in a moderate oven four 
or five hours. The lentils must be kept moist and it may be neces- 
sary to add a little water from time to time. 

136 



FlSSSfof°Fo1.r MEAT SUBSTITUTES 



Family of Four 



BAKED BEANS 



1 pint dried beans V2 teaspoon salt 

l^ pound salt pork Dash of pepper 

1 cup water 1 tablespoon molasses 

Soak the beans over night, adding a little soda to the water. 
In the morning cook them gently until the skins begin to break; 
then drain off the water, saving one cup. Empty the beans into 
a baking dish; bury the pork in them, rind side up, and pour over 
them the cup of water saved, into which has been stirred the salt, 
pepper and molasses. If desired, a little mustard or onion or 
more molasses may be added. Cover the beans and let them bake 
in a slow oven for four or five hours. Serve with Boston brown 
bread. 

PUREE OF DRIED BEANS 

1 pint beans 1/2 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon butter or drippings 1/2 saltspoon pepper 

y-i, teaspoon sugar 1 cup hot milk 

Cook the beans until very soft; drain well, saving the water, 
and rub through a puree sieve. Put one pint of the strained beans 
in a saucepan with the butter or savory drippings and seasoning 
and add the hot milk gradually untU a thick mush is formed. Heap 
the puree in the center of a hot platter and garnish with fried bacon, 
sausages or mutton chops. 

A soup may be made with the water in which the beans were 
cooked and the remainder of the strained beans. 

Dried peas may be prepared in the same way. 

DRIED BEANS SAUTE 

1 pint beans' '^h tablespoon salt 

xy-i, tablespoons butter or drippings Vi teaspoon pepper 

Soak the beans and cook them until tender but not broken; then 
drain off the water and save it for soup. Put the butter or savory 
drippings in a pan over the fire and when hot put in the drained 
beans which have been seasoned. Cook over a hot fire for fifteen 
minutes, frequently turning the beans with a fork; then cover 
and let them cook for half an hour where they will not burn. If 
desired moist, a half cup of stock, milk or water may be added 
before putting them to cook for the last half hour. 

137 



MEAT SUBSTITUTES ^j^S^ftFo^ 

BEANS MEXICAN 

2 cups pink beans 1 tablespoon drippings 

6 cups water 1 chile pepper 

1 small onion Salt 

Wash the beans and soak them m the water over night. In the 
morning add the onion; boil gently until soft; then drain, saving 
the water. Put the grease in a large skillet; when sizzling hot 
add the drained beans and stir thoroughly until each bean seems 
to have a coating of the fat and begins to burst. Add one cup of 
the water in which the beans were boiled; gently crush a few of 
tlie beans to thicken it; add the remainder of the water, salt to 
taste and the chile pepper, finely chopped. Simmer until the beans 
are almost dry and serve. 

COTTAGE CHEESE 

Set a gallon or more of thick sour milk in warm water, or in a 
warm place until it reaches a temperature of 180° F. Let stand 
at this temperature for an hour or more, until the curd separates 
from the whey and seems firm. Turn gently into a piece of cheese- 
cloth; hang up to drain for several hours; chop and mix salt and 
cream through the mass, working the mixture well with the hands. 

BOSTON ROAST 

1 pound cooked kidney beans Bread crumbs 

1/2 pound grated cheese Salt and red pepper 

Butter and water 

Mash the beans or put them through a meat grinder; add the 
cheese, salt and sufficient bread crumbs to make the mixture stiff 
enough to form into a roll. Bake in a moderate oven, basting 
occasionally with butter and water. Serve with tomato sauce. 

PIMIENTO ROAST 

2 cups cooked lima beans 3 canned pimientoes 
Vi pound cream or cottage cheese Bread crumbs 

Butter and water 

Chop the first three ingredients or put them through a meat 
chopper; mix thoroughly and add bread crumbs until the mixture 
is stiff enough to form a roll. Brown in the oven, basting occa- 
sionally with butter and water. 

138 



Famfly of Fo"ur MEAT SUBSTITUTES 

BAKED MACARONI WITH CHEESE 

1 cup broken macaroni 1 pint cream sauce 

2 quarts boiling salted water 1 cup grated cheese 

1 cup buttered bread crumbs 

Cook the macaroni in the water for twenty or thirty minutes; 
drain and blanch with cold water. Put the macaroni in a pudding 
dish in layers, covering each with cream sauce and grated cheese 
and making the top layer of bread crumbs. Bake in the oven until 
the crumbs are brown. 

BAKED CRACKERS WITH CHEESE 

10 butter crackers or Boston 1 tablespoon flour 

crackers Vi teaspoon salt 
11/2 cups milk 
1 cup grated cheese crumbs 

Split the crackers if they are thick and with a sharp knife cut 
them into pieces of uniform size. Pour the milk over them and 
drain it off at once. Then make a sauce with the milk, flour, 
cheese and salt. Into a buttered baking dish put alternate layers 
of soaked cracker and sauce. Cover with bread crumbs and brown 
in the oven. 

MIGAS 

Soak slices of stale bread and squeeze dry. Put olive oil or 
drippings in a frying pan and when boiling hot drop in an onion 
chopped fine, a little ground chile and a pinch of sweet marjoram. 
Lay the slices of bread in this with plenty of fresh cheese (prefer- 
ably goats' cheese), finely broken, and fry for about ten minutes. 
Remove to a hot plate; cover with grated cheese, stoned ripe 
olives and chopped hard-boiled egg. 

CORN AND CHEESE SOUFFLE 

1 tablespoon butter 1 cup grated cheese 

1 tablespoon chopped green pepper 1 cup com 
14 cup flour 3 eggs 

2 cups milk V2 teaspoon salt 

Melt the butter and cook the pepper thoroughly in it; make a 
sauce by adding the flour, milk and cheese; add the corn, 
yolks of eggs and seasoning; fold in the stifHy beaten whites; turn 
into a buttered baking dish and bake in a moderate oven for thirty 
minutes. 

139 



MEAT SUBSTITUTES ' rl^SyftrL^ 

CHEESE SOUFFLE 

2 tablespoons butter Vi teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons flour Dash of red pepper 

1/2 cup scalded milk Vi cup grated cheese 
3 eggs 

Melt the butter and mix thoroughly with the flour; then add 
the hot milk gradually and the salt, red pepper and cheese. Re- 
move from the fire and add the beaten yolks. Cool the mixture; 
fold in the beaten whites; pour into a buttered baking dish and 
cook about twenty minutes in a slow oven. Serve at once or the 
souffle will not be light. 

CHEESE ROLLS 

A large variety of rolls may be made by combining cooked 
beans, lentOs or peas with cheese and adding bread crumbs to make 
the mixture thick enough to form into a roll. Beans are usually 
mashed, but peas or lima beans may be combined whole with 
bread crumbs and grated cheese and enough of the water in which 
the vegetables have been cooked to insure the right consistency. 

Chopped spinach, beet greens or lettuce may be used instead of 
the legumes if desired. 

Cottage cheese, cream cheese, American or English dairy cheese 
may be used. 

BAKED RICE 

2 cups boiled rice V2 cup milk 

1 cup grated cheese Salt and red pepper 

1 tablespoon butter Bread crumbs 

Arrange the rice in a baking dish in layers, covering each with 
cheese, a little milk, butter, salt and red pepper. Spread bread 
crumbs over all and bake in a moderate oven until the crumbs are 
browned. 

English dairy cheese is preferred for this, although American 
cheese will do. 

ENGLISH RICE 

J^ cup rice 3^2 cup cooked tomatoes 

}/2 cup pecans 1 saltspoon salt 

Dash of pepper 

Wash, boil and drain the rice. Strain the tomatoes and add to 
them the seasoning. Put a layer of rice in the bottom of a baking 

140 



Fl55i^of°Fo°u, MEAT SUBSTITUTES 

dish, then a layer of nuts, then rice, then nuts again until the entire 
quantity is used, making the last layer of rice. Pour the tomatoes 
over this and bake in a moderate oven thirty minutes. 

PEANUT BUTTER 

Nuts are found indigestible chiefly because of the impossibility 
of grinding them fine enough with the teeth. The value of nut 
butters is therefore obvious. 

Almost any kind of nut will make good butter, but peanuts are 
perhaps the best and the most generally available. Pound freshly 
roasted nuts in a mortar or put them through a chopper, using the 
knife designed especially for the making of nut butters. Season 
with salt and add a little olive oil if desired. In most cases the oil 
from the nuts is suflScient to moisten the butter. 

NUT AND FRUIT CHEESE 

r 

y^ pound figs 2 ounces almonds 

14 pound seeded raisins 2 ounces pine nuts 

y^ pound dates 2 ounces Brazil nuts 
y^ pound pecans 

Wash the fruit and stone the dates. Mix thoroughly with the 
nuts and put through a meat chopper. Press the mixture into 
baking powder tins and stand in a cool place. When wanted for 
use loosen the sides with a thin knife-blade and turn out on a 
board. Cut into thin slices and serve in the place of meat or put 
between thin slices of buttered bread. 

NUT ROAST 

y% cup lentils Vi teaspoon salt 

Vi cup shelled roasted peanuts Vi saltspoon pepper 

y^ cup toasted bread crumbs Milk 

Soak the lentils over night; in the morning drain, cover with 
fresh water and bring to a boil. Drain again; put in fresh water 
and cook until tender. Drain once more; throw away the water 
and press the lentils through a colander. To them add the nuts, 
either ground or chopped, the bread crumbs and seasoning and 
milk sufficient to make the mixture the consistency of mush. Put 
into a greased baking dish; bake in a moderate oven for an hour; 
turn out on a heated platter; garnish with parsley or watercress 
and serve. 

10 141 



MEAT SUBSTITUTES Fa^TrfFou? 

VEGETABLE MEAT PIE ^ 

1/2 cup lima beans i/^ cup hot milk 

14 cup peanuts 1 hard-boiled egg 

Vi cup almonds Vz tablespoon chopped parsley 

4 potatoes 1/2 tablespoon chopped onion 

1/4 cup flour V2 teaspoon salt 

V2 saltspoon pepper 

Soak the beans over night; in the morning let them boil rapidly 
for one half hour. Drain; slip the beans from their skins and 
split them in halves. Blanch the almonds and chop them with 
the peanuts. Boil the potatoes, and when done, cut two of them 
into small cubes. Mash the remaining two and use them for a 
dough, adding four tablespoons of the hot milk, a little salt and 
the flour. Put a layer of beans in the bottom of the baking dish, a 
sprinkling of nuts, a little hard-boiled egg, potato blocks and sea- 
soning; then more beans, nuts, egg and potato, and so on until 
the material is all used. Roll out the potato dough the size of the 
baking dish; put it over the dish; brush with milk and bake h/^f 
an hour in a moderately quick oven. 

TOJT SOUFFLE 

1 /Cup soft bread cnunbs Vi teaspoon salt 

14 cup milk Dash of pepper 

1/2 cup chopped nuts Whites of 3 eggs 

Put the milk and bread crumbs over the fire; cook until per- 
fectly smooth, stirring constantly. Remove from the fire; work 
in the nuts; add the seasoning; fold in the well-beaten whites of 
eggs; turn into a baking dish and bake in a quick oven from ten 
to fifteen minutes. Serve at once. 

ALMONDS WITH EGGS 

1 cup milk 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 

2 tablespoons sugar Vi teaspoon almond extract 
Grated rind of 1 lemon 3 ounces chopped almonds 
1 tablespoon butter White of 1 egg 

1 tablespoon flour 1 tablespoon sugar 

3 eggs Few shredded almonds 

Put the milk into a saucepan with the sugar and lemon rind 
and allow it to simmer gently for half an hour. Blend the butter 
and flour; add the milk mixture; stir until it boils; then cook 
for five minutes. Beat the eggs; add the flavorings and almonds, 

142 



FS''of°Four MEAT SUBSTITUTES 

and stir all into the fii-st mixture. Stir with a wooden spoon 
over the fire until thick like batter; then turn into a baking dish. 
Cover with a meringue made from the white of egg and sugar; 
brown in the oven; sprinkle with shredded almonds and serve hot. 

NUT AND CHEESE RELISH 

1 package cream cheese 1 cup chopped nut meats 

2 tablespoons whipped cream 1 teaspoon chopped parsley 

Salt and red pepper 

Mix the cheese with the cream, nuts, parsley and seasonings. 
Roll into balls and serve cold, garnished with parsley and chopped 
nuts. 



143 



MEAT SUBSTITUTES fZX°^^?u? 



Family of Four 



iM. 



^L^^SeVf^o-ur MEAT SUBSTITUTES 



Family of Four 



MEAT SUBSTITUTES FamUy"MFou? 



146 



LEFT-OVERS 



LEFT-OVERS 

T EFT-OVERS are a problem to every housewife, and it is 
•■-' the wise cook who can either so merge them with other 
things that the identity is lost or make of them new dishes so 
palatable as to be desired rather than dreaded. With a little 
care and forethought, however, this can readily be done. 

The manner of serving these dishes should be studied, for 
dainty ways of serving food have a usefulness beyond their 
esthetic value. Every one knows how quickly a feeble appetite 
is tempted by a tastefully garnished dish when the same material 
well cooked but carelessly served would seem altogether unpal- 
atable. Even "left-overs" may be made as attractive in appear- 
ance as fresh dishes. 

There are throughout this book many recipes that call for 
cold meats and vegetables, so that this chapter is not the only 
one to be studied by the economical cook. See especially the 
chapter on "Entrees." 

BAKED HASH 

2 cups cold meat 2 cups cold potatoes 

1 tablespoon butter 2 cups stock 

Seasoning to taste 

Melt the butter in the stock; add the meat and potato, finely 
chopped or run through a meat chopper. Season to taste; put 
in a greased baking dish and bake until nicely browned. 

CURRY OF BEEF 

2 cups cold beef Curry sauce 

1 cup boiled rice 

Make curry sauce according to directions given in the chapter 
on "Sauces"; add the beef, finely chopped; bring to a boil and 
serve in a border of hot boiled rice. 

149 



T TTITT /^XriTTi O Planned for a 

LiUjt! 1 -U V JC/KO Famllv of Four 



Family o( Four 



CURRY OF LAMB 

Make and serve the same as curry of beef, adding a half teaspooB 
of chopped mint if desired. 

SCALLOPED BEEF 

2 cups cold chopped beef 1 cup brown sauce 

2 cups cooked tomatoes 1 cup bread crumbs 

Salt and pepper 2 tablespoons butter 

In a baking dish arrange alternate layers of beef and tomatoes, 
seasoning each and moistening the meat with brown sauce (or 
with a httle melted butter and hot water if there has been no 
brown sauce left). Cover the top with bread crumbs and bits of 
butter; bake in a moderate oven for half an hour and serve. If 
it begins to brown too quickly, cover with another pan. 

CREAMED HASH 

1 pint cold meat 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

Salt and pepper 1 teaspoon onion juice 

1 cup cream sauce 

Chop the meat very fine; season it and add the onion and parsley. 
Make the cream sauce in a double boiler; stir in the meat; beat 
thoroughly and serve on squares of toasted bread. 

MOCK VENISON 

Cold mutton 1 cup water or stock 

1 tablespoon butter 1 tablespoon currant jelly 

1 tablespoon flour 1 tablespoon bottled meat sauce 

Brown the flour in the butter; add the water or stock, stirring 
constantly; then add the jelly and meat sauce and bring to a boil. 
Cut the cold meat into thin slices; heat them thoroughly in the 
sauce and serve. 

CORNED-BEEF HASH 

1 cup cold corned beef Salt and pepper 

1 cup cold boiled potatoes 1 tablespoon butter 

Milk or stock 

Chop the corned beef, discarding the gristle but using some of 
the fat. Melt the butter in a frying pan; add the beef mixed 

150 



tianned for a ( •trT?T fWTT^T} CJ 

Family of Four J-'-C'-r 1 " v-* V iSK-O 

with chopped potatoes; pour over enough milk or stock to moisten; 
stir umtil well mixed; then cook slowly until browned underneath. 
Fold over like an omelet and serve garnished with parsley and 
poached eggs. 

FARMERS' CABBAGE 

1 cup cold meat 1 cup cooked tomatoes 

1 cup cooked cabbage 1 cup bread crumbs 

Salt aad pepper 

Chop the meat into small pieces; Hkewise the cabbage. Put 
a layer of meat in the bottom of a baking dish ; then a layer of 
cabbage; then a layer of tomatoes. Continue until the entire 
quantity has been used, seasoning each layer as you go. Cover 
all with bread crumbs and bake in a moderate oven until brown. 
A little grated cheese may be added to the top if desired. 

STEW FROM COLD MEAT 

Free the meat from fat, gristle and bones; cut into small pieces; 
add salt and water sufficient to cover it. Let simmer until 
almost ready to break in pieces; add raw onions and potatoes 
and cook until tender, adding also a little soup stock if available. 
Cook xmtil the potatoes are done; thicken with flour and serve 
on small slices of toast. 

POTTED MEAT 

1 pint cold meat Salt and pepper 

2 oimces butter Dried herbs 

Melted suet 

Chop the meat very fine; pound it in a mortar, adding gradually 
the butter and seasoning to taste. , Pack into small jars; cover 
with melted suet and keep in a cool place. 

VEAL CAKES 

1 pound cold chopped veal 1 teaspoon chopped onion 

y, pound soaked bread crumbs 1 teaspoon salt 

Dash of pepper 2 tablespoons fat or butter 

Mix all the ingredients except the fat; mold into small cakes. 
Melt the fat in a frying pan and brown the cakes in it, first on one 
side, then on the other. 

151 



LEFT-OVERS pf'^r^or/o^.? 



Family of Four 



BLANQUETTE OF CHICKEN 

2 cups cold chicken 2 tablespoons chopped parsley 

1 cup cream sauce Few gratings of nutmeg 

1 tablespoon lemon juice Pinch of clove 

Make the cream sauce as usual; heat the chicken thoroughly 
in it; add the seasonings and serve. 



FISH CUTLETS 

1 cup cold cooked fish V2 teaspoon chopped onion 

1/2 cup milk 1/2 teaspoon chopped parsley 

1 tablespoon butter 1/2 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon flour Dash of red pepper 

Yolk of 1 egg Uncooked macaroni 

Bread cnmibs and egg 

Make a cream sauce of the butter, flour and milk; add the egg, 
then the fish and seasonings. Mix carefully and let cool; form 
into cutlet shapes; dip in egg and bread crumbs and fry in hot 
fat. When brown, remove the cutlets and insert in each a small 
piece of uncooked macaroni to represent the bone, covering the 
place of insertion with a sprinkling of chopped parsley. 

FISH CROQUETTES 

Prepare the same mixture used for cutlets; mold into cones; 
dip in egg and crumbs and fry in hot fat, removing them as soon 
as they are brown and sprinkling each with chopped parsley. 

cusK A LA crI;me 

1 pint cold fish 14 tablespoon cornstarch 

1 pint milk 1/2 tablespoon butter 

1 blade mace Yolk of 1 egg 

1 sprig parsley Salt and pepper 

1 bay leaf Bread crumbs 

Put the milk with the mace, parsley and bay leaf in a double 
boiler; bring to a boil; remove the mace, parsley and bay leaf 
and add the cornstarch and butter, well rubbed together. Then 
add the beaten egg and season to taste. Fill a baking dish with 
alternate layers of fish and sauce; cover with bread crumbs and 
bake in the oven until the crumbs are browned. 

152 



Planned for a T T717'T' /^VUTSC 

Family of Four Liitit! 1 -\J V JIKO 



SCALLOPED FISH 

1 pint cold cooked fish 1 pint cream sauce 

1 pint stuffing Bread crumbs 

Butter 

Put the fish and stuflSng in a baking dish in alternate layers, 
moistening each with cream sauce. Cover with bread crumbs 
and bits of butter and bake until brown. 



153 



T 17 ITT' ^^nrOC! Planned for a 

L(Jlr 1 -U V JIKO FamllT of Four 



■'54 



F^mSvVfVur LEFT-OVERS 



LEFT-OVERS Fami?y of Four 



VEGETABLES 



VEGETABLES 

VEGETABLES are prepared for the table in several ways, but 
the most common method of cooking them Is in boiling water 
or in the related method of steaming. On the whole, it may be 
said that the simpler methods of preparing are to be preferred, in 
the majority of cases bringing the food to its most digestible form. 

The changes that take place in the cooking of vegetables are 
briefly these: The cellular tissue is softened and loosened; the 
nitrogenous substances are coagulated; the starch granules 
absorb moisture, swell and burst; and the flavor is developed. 
The food is rendered more digestible and in most cases more pal- 
atable. Over-cooking, however, changes and toughens the 
texture of vegetable foods, destroys the coloring matter and 
injures the flavor. 

All vegetables should be thoroughly cleansed before being put 
on to cook, and if for any reason a green vegetable has lost its 
crispness or firmness it should be soaked in very cold water until 
it has regained freshness. Vegetables that form in heads, such 
as cabbage, cauliflower and Brussels sprouts, should be soaked, 
heads down, in salted cold water to which a few teaspoons of 
.vinegar may be added. If there are any worms in the vegetables 
they will crawl out. 

To secure the best results all vegetables except the dried legumes 
must be put in boiling water and the water must be brought to a 
boil again as soon as possible after the vegetables have been 
added. Herbaceous vegetables should boil rapidly all the time; 
but with tubers, roots, cauliflower, etc., the ebullition should not 
be so violent as to break the vegetables. Green lima beans and 
peas when removed from the pods must be cooked gently. If 

159 



^TTyr'TTT ATIT TTC Planneo for a 

V JiLrJl, i AiiL,ti,0 Family of Four 

beans or peas are a little old, a pinch of baking soda added to the 
water in which they are boiled will make them more tender. 

The best seasoning for most vegetables is salt and butter. 
Vegetables that are drained when partly done and then cooked 
with butter and seasoning for a few minutes are usually more 
palatable than those which are cooked the entire time in a large 
amount of clear water and seasoned afterward. 



CABBAGE 

Divide a small head of cabbage into four parts, cutting down 
through the stock; soak for one half hour in a pan of cold water 
to which has been added a tablespoon of salt; then remove from 
the water and cut in slices. Have a large saucepan full of boiling 
water; put in the cabbage, pushing the slices under the water with 
a spoon; add a tablespoon of salt and cook from twenty-five to 
sixty minutes, according to the age of the cabbage. Drain through 
a colander; then put in a chopping bowl and mince. Season with 
butter, pepper and more salt if needed, and stand over the fire for 
a few minutes to reheat. Allow a tablespoon of butter to a pint 
of cooked cabbage. 

Keep the kitchen windows open while cooking and the door 
closed so that no unpleasant odor may rise through the house. 



CABBAGE WITH PORK 

For a small head of cabbage use half a pound of minced salt 
pork. Boil the pork gently for three or four hours. Prepare the 
cabbage as for plain boiled cabbage; drain well and put on to boil 
with the pork. Boil and serve the pork with the cabbage. A 
little additional salt may be needed. 

Smoked bacon or ham or corned beef may be substituted for the 
pork; but these are usually better if cooked separately from the 
cabbage. 

LADY CABBAGE 

Prepare and cook the cabbage in the usual way. Chop very 
fine; return to the fire; cover with milk; season; bring to a boil 
and serve. 

160 



Pianixed ioi H - Xn?r^Ti"T ATJT TTC 

Family o( Four V iliKjH, 1 AOLiliiO 

CREAMED CABBAGE 

Make a cream sauce; add the boiled cabbage, chopped; bring 
to a boil and serve, sprinkling a little chopped parsley over the top 
of the dish. 

CAULIFLOWER 

Remov(i all the large green leaves and the greater part of the 
stalk, and soak, head down, in a pan of cold water which contains 
to each quart of water a teaspoon of salt and a teaspoon of vinegar. 
Put in a large saucepan, stem end down; cover with boiling water; 
add a tablespoon of salt and cook from twenty to thirty minutes, 
according to the size of the head and its compactness. Remove as 
soon as done, for overcooking darkens it. 

CREAMED CAULIFLOWER 

Make a cream sauce; add the boiled cauliflower, broken into 
pieces, and serve. 

CAULIFLOWER AU GRATIN 

Break boiled cauliflower into small flowerets; place in layers in 
a buttered pudding dish, covering each with cream sauce and 
grated cheese. Spread buttered bread crumbs over the top of the 
dish and bake until brown. 

CAULIFLOWER POLONAISE 

1 head cauliflower Yolks of 3 eggs 

11/2 teaspoons mustard Vi cup olive oil 

V/i teaspoons salt Vi cup vinegar 

1 teaspoon powdered sugar 2 tablespoons melted butter 

Yz teaspoon paprika 1 teaspoon chopped parsley 

Cook the cauliflower as usual; when done break into flowerets 
and cover with a sauce made from the other ingredients. Mix 
the dry ingredients; add the beaten eggs, then the oil and 
vinegar. Cook over hot water until the mixture thickens; re- 
move from fire and add the butter and parsley. 

BRUSSELS SPROUTS 

Remove the wilted or yellow leaves from the sprouts; cut the 
stock close to the heads, and soak in salted cold water for an hour 

161 



•\ri7r' TTX A T3T T7C Planned for a 

V JiLrJi 1 Ar>l/iSO FamUy of Four 

or more. Drain well and empty them into boiling salted water, 
allowing one teaspoon of salt to two quarts of water. Boil rapidly 
for fifteen or twenty minutes, according to the size of the heads; 
when done, turn into a colander and pour cold water over the 
heads. Reheat in butter and seasoning or in cream sauce. 

KALE 

Remove al! the old or tough leaves; wash the kale thoroughly 
and drain. Put it into boiling water to which has been added salt 
in the proportion of one half tablespoon to two quarts of water. 
Boil rapidly, uncovered, imtil the vegetable is tender; pour off the 
water; chop the kale very fine; return it to the kettle with one 
tablespoon of butter and two of meat stock or water to every pint 
of the minced vegetable. Add more salt if necessary; cook for ten 
minutes and serve at once. The entire time for cooking varies 
from thirty to fifty minutes. 

BOILED LETTUCE 

Lettuce that has grown too old for salad may still be cooked, 
forming a very palatable dish. Wash four or five heads of lettuce, 
removing the thick bitter stalks and retaining only the sound 
leaves. Cook in boiling, salted water for ten or fifteen minutes; 
drain ia a colander, pouring cold water over them. Chop and re- 
heat with butter and seasoning or with cream sauce. 

BEET GREENS 

Beets are usually thickly sowed, and as the young plants begin 
to grow they must be thumed out. These plants make dehcious 
greens, and even the tops of the ordinary market beets are good if 
properly prepared. Examine the leaves carefully to be sure that 
there are no insects on them; wash thoroughly in several waters, 
and put over the fire in a large kettle of boiling water. Add a 
teaspoon of salt for every two quarts of greens; boil rapidly about 
thirty minutes or until tender; drain off the water; chop well and 
season with butter and salt. 

SPINACH 

Perhaps no other vegetable requires such care in the preparation 
as spinach. In the first place it takes a great deal of time, water 
and patience to wash it clean. Cut off the roots; break the leaves 

162 



Planned for a TriJr'irT ATJT TTO 

Family o( Four V tiiKjUj 1 AJSJ^JSv} 

apart; drop them in a large pan of water; rinse well; lift them out 
separately and drop back into a second pan of water. Continue 
washing in fresh waters until there is not a grain of sand to be 
found in the bottom of the pan. Drain the spinach and drop it 
into boiling water, allowing three quarts of water and one table- 
spoon of salt to a half peck of spinach. Let it boil for twenty 
minutes or more, counting from the time it begins to boil, and 
drawing the cover of the saucepan to one side to allow the steam 
to escape. Empty into a colander; pour cold water over the 
spinach; drain and mince fine. Return to the fire with seasoning 
and butter, or drippings from roast beef or chicken if preferred. 
Garnish with hard-boiled egg or serve with cream sauce. 

DANDELIONS 

Gather young dandelion plants before they have flowered; cut 
off the roots; wash thoroughly; boil in salted water about one hour, 
leaving the lid partly off. Drain and chop fine; season with salt, 
pepper or vinegar, and a liberal measure of butter. 

If cooked with half spinach or beet greens it is less bitter and 
more palatable to some people. In this case the dandelion should 
be partly cooked before the other vegetable is added. 

LEEKS 

Wash and trim the leeks and cook them in boiling salted water 
until soft. Drain thoroughly; season with butter, salt and pepper, 
and serve. 

JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES 

1 quart peeled and cut artichokes 1 tablespoon butter 

1 pint nulk 1 tablespoon flour 

1 small onion 1 teaspoon salt 

Vi teaspoon pepper 

Wash and peel the artichokes and cut them into small cubes; 
put in a double boiler; cover with milk; add the onion and cook 
twenty minutes. Beat the butter and flour together and stir them 
into the milk; add the seasoning and cook for a half hour longer. 

GLOBE ARTICHOKES 

Remove all the hard outer leaves; cut off the stems close to the 
leaves, also the top of the bud. Drop the artichokes in boiling 

163 



VEGETABLES F^ST^fg^^; 

water and cook until tender, from thirty to fifty minutes; take up 
and remove the choke. Serve hot with melted butter or cold with 
French salad dressing. 

GREEN PEAS 

Shell the peas and cover them generously with water; bring to 
a boil; then push aside until the water will just bubble gently. 
Keep the lid partly ofiE. When the peas are tender add salt and 
butter; cook ten minutes longer and serve. If the peas are not 
the sweet variety, add a teaspoon of sugar. 

SUGAR PEAS 

Sugar peas may be cooked in the pods like string beans. Gather 
the pods while the seeds are still very small; string like beans and 
cut into pieces. Cover with boiling water and boil gently for 
twenty -five or thirty minutes or until tender. Pour off most of the 
v/ater, saving it for soup; season the rest with salt and butter and 
serve. 

STRING BEANS 

Remove the strings carefully; break the pods into one-inch 
pieces ; wash thoroughly ; drain and drop into boiling salted water. 
Boil until tender; drain off the water; season with butter and 
more salt if needed and serve. 

Pork may be boiled with the beans if desired. Boil a quarter 
of a pound for five hours; then add the beans. 

GREEN LIMA BEANS 
Cover the shelled beans with boiling water; bring to a boil 
quickly; then let them simmer slowly until tender. Drain and 
add salt, pepper and butter or hot cream or cream sauce. 

DRIED BEANS AND PEAS 
Recipes for cooking dried beans and peas will be found in the 
chapter on "Meat Substitutes." 

BOILED TURNIPS 

Have the turnips peeled and sliced and drop them into boiling 
water sufficient to cover. Cook until tender; drain well; chop 
them or mash with a wooden potato masher. Season with salt, 
butter and pepper and serve at once. 

m 




''^ 



'%%) 



""fiaStiST;' - ■ 




''■i^? 



I»'-«C.' --f^-. 



i * 





VEGETABLES 
Potatoes Cauliflower String Beans 



iFp^;■'■f^^tsr^£•;;:.-■^rT^■i^■:^Avv:^^7^'^,:■J^7•^'^;^^^S?V^ -'.','^'f:^pi^^')-^'y^^^<%^-^^^-^' 






ENTREES 
Veal Croquettes Rissoles Swedisn Timbales 



Planned for a XT'TiT' T7T A 151 IT Q 

Famllv of Four V lHjii 1 AJ31jJi& 



Family of Four 



CARROTS 

Scrape the carrots lightly ; cut them Into large dice or slices and 
drop them into salted boiling water, allowing a teaspoon of salt to 
a quart of water. Boil until tender; drain and serve with butter 
and pepper or with cream sauce. 

CARROTS AND PEAS 

Cook the carrots; add an equal quantity of cooked peas; sea- 
son with butter, pepper and sa)t, or beat both together in a cream 
sauce. 

PARSNIPS 

Wash the parsnips clean; boil them until tender; scrape off the 
skin and slice them into a vegetable dish, seasoning with salt, 
pepper and butter or pouring drawn butter over them. 

If preferred, the cooked parsnips may be chopped rather coarse, 
seasoned and returned to the fire with milk sufficient to cover them. 
Thicken with a teaspoon of flour rubbed in a tablespoon of butter; 
simmer for ten minutes and serve. 

Still another method of serving the parsnips is to fry the slices 
in butter after they have been boiled. 

KOHL-RABI 

Kohl-rabi or kale turnip is a cultivated variety of kale or cab- 
bage, distinguished by the swelling of the stem in turnip form. 
This swollen portion is used for food, cooked like turnips or un- 
cooked in slices like radishes. 

SALSIFY 

6 large roots 1 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon vinegar 3 pints water 

2 tablespoons flour 1 cup cream sauce 

To prevent the roots from turning dark they must be dropped 
as soon as they are pared and cut into the mixture of flour, salt, 
water and vinegar. Wash and scrape the roots; cut them into 
slices about three inches long and drop them into the prepared 
water. Place the saucepan on the fire and cook for thirty minutes 
after it begins to boil. Drain and serve with white or cream sauce. 

165 



VEGETABLES "''"""' '"' * 



Family of Four 



BEETS 



Wash ttie beets, being careful not to break the skin; cover them 
with boiling water and boil until tender. Remove from the fire; 
drop into cold water and rub off the skins. Cut the beets into 
thin slices or chop them if not young; season with salt, butter and 
pepper and serve at once. 



PICKLED BEETS 

If beets are very old they will be better pickled in vinegar. Boil 
and slice them; cover with vinegar and let stand until cold. 



CREAMED CELERY 

Remove the leaves from the stalks of celery; scrape off all 
rusted or dark spots; cut into small pieces and drop in cold water. 
Have boiling water ready; put the celery into it, adding a half 
teaspoon of salt for every quart of water. Boil until tender, leav- 
ing the cover partly off; drain and rinse in cold water. Make a 
cream sauce; drop the celery into it; heat thoroughly and serve. 



BOILED ONIONS 

Peel the onions and cut off the roots ; drop each into cold water 
as soon as it is peeled. When all are ready, drain and put in a 
saucepan well covered with boiling water, adding a teaspoon of 
salt for every quart of water. BoU rapidly for ten minutes with 
the cover partly off; drain and return to the fire with fresh water. 
Simmer imtil tender; add pepper and butter and serve, or omit 
the butter and pepper and pour a cream sauce over the onions. 

STEWED ONIONS 

11/2 pints onion Vi teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon butter 1/2 saltspoon pepper 

Cut the onions in slices and boil in salted water for ten minutes; 
drain and return to the saucepan with the butter, salt and pepper. 
Cover and cook over a hot fire for five minutes; then cook slowly 
for thirty or forty minutes. Drippings may be substituted for 
the butter if desired. 

166 



Planned for a ^yp/^TTT ABT TTC 

Family of Four VJiVjJl/l AUiiJlO 



SCALLOPED ONIONS 

Cut boiled onions into quarters; put them in a baking dish 
and mix well with cream sauce; cover with bread crumbs and 
bits of butter and place in the oven until the crumbs are browned. 

FRIED ONIONS 

6 onions 1 tablespoon butter 

Salt and pepper 

Remove the skins from the onions; cut them in slices and cook 
in boiling salted water for fifteen minutes. Drain; add the butter 
and fry until well browned, stirring to prevent them from sticking. 
Season and serve with beefsteak or calf's liver. 

STEWED TOMATOES 

Pour boiling water over the tomatoes; remove the skins; cut 
into small pieces and place in a saucepan over the fire. Boil 
gently for twenty or thirty minutes and season, allowing for each 
quart of tomato one generous teaspoon each of salt and sugar and 
one tablespoon of butter. If in addition to this seasoning a slice 
of onion has been cooked with the tomatoes from the begiiming, 
the flavor will be greatly improved. 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES 

1 pint tomatoes 1 tablespoon sugar 

1 pint bread crumbs 2 teaspoons salt 

2 tablespoons butter 1 saltspoon pepper 

Butter a baking dish and in it put alternate layers of tomatoes 
and bread crumbs, seasoning each layer of crumbs and covering 
it with small pieces of butter. Have a layer of crumbs on the top. 
If fresh tomatoes are used bake one hour, if canned, a half hour. 
If the crumbs begin to brown too quickly cover the dish with a tin 
plate. 

STUFFED TOMATOES 

6 large tomatoes Vz teaspoon salt 

1 cup bread crumbs V2 saltspoon pepper ' 

1 teaspoon chopped onion 1 tablespoon butter 

Cut a slice off the stem end of the tomato and scoop out the 
seeded part. Brown the onion sUghtly in the butter; add it to the 

167 



TrTr/^ITT A"RT TTO Planned for a 

V iiVjii 1 iLDLfi^O FamUy of Four 

bread crumbs, with seasoning, and fill the tomatoes with the mix- 
ture. Place them in a shallow baking pan and bake in a quick 
oven about thirty minutes. 

FRIED TOMATOES 

3 large tomatoes Flour 

Salt and pepper Butter 

1 cup cream sauce 

Wash the tomatoes; slice them in half -inch slices; sprinkle with 
salt, pepper and flour and brown lightly in butter. Lay on a hot 
platter and pour over them a cream sauce made with the butter 
that remains in the pan. 

TURKISH PILAF 

1 cup stock 

3 tablespoons butter 

Strain the tomatoes and cook them with the rice and stock in a 
double boiler until the rice is tender; add the butter and stir it in 
without meishing the rice. 

Serve as a border with meat or as a vegetable. If desired, a little 
catsup or Chili sauce and water to make three quarters of a cup 
may be substituted for the tomatoes. 

ASPARAGUS 

Cut off the woody part of the asparagus and scrape the lower 
ends of the stalks, or cut off all but the very tender part, saving 
the pieces for cream of asparagus soup. Wash the stalks and tie 
them in bunches; place them upright, stem end down in a deep 
saucepan. Pour in boiling water sufficient to come up to the ten- 
der heads but not to cover them; add a teaspoon of salt for each 
quart of water and place the saucepan where the water will boil. 
Cook until tender, leaving the cover partly off. It will take from 
fifteen to thirty minutes according to the age of the asparagus. 
Serve on thin slices of buttered toast, seasoning with butter, pep- 
per and salt, or pouring drawn butter or cream sauce over all. 
Save the water for vegetable soup. 

If preferred, all the tender part of the asparagus may be cut into 
short pieces, boiled in water sufficient to cover, and served in 
cream sauce or in a little of the water in which it is cooked, seasoned 
with salt, pepper and butter. 

168 



Planned for a Xftr/^TT'T AUT fO 

Family of Four V Jl VjiS 1 AJ3L>£<0 

OKRA 

Wash young pods and boil them in salted water until tender, 
about twenty minutes; drain and reheat for five minutes in cream, 
adding butter, salt and pepper. 



GREEN PEPPERS STUFFED 

6 peppers , Vi teaspoon basil 

Bread crumbs y\ teaspoon summer savory 

2 teaspoons salt 2 tablespoons butter or drippings 

1 tablespoon herbs 1 cup white sauce 

2 cups white stock or water 

Select only tender, sweet peppers. Soak in water bread crumbs 
sufficient to make one pint when the water is pressed out; mix 
with the seasonings and butter. Cut off the stem end of each 
pepper; carefully remove the interior and fill the peppers with the 
prepared dressing. Place in a shallow baking pan and pour 
around them the white sauce thinned with the stock or water. 
Bake about one hour, basting frequently with the sauce. 

Peppers may also be filled with a well-seasoned dressing of 
chopped meat, with or without the addition of bread crumbs or 
boiled rice. 

FRIED EGGPLANT 

Cut the eggplant in slices about a quarter of an inch thick; pare 
them; sprinkle with salt and pile one upon another, placing over 
them a plate with a weight on top. Let stand for an hour; remove 
the plate; dip the slices in beaten egg, to which has been added a 
tablespoon of water, half a tablespoon of salt and half a teaspoon 
of pepper. Then dip the slices in dried bread crumbs ; spread on 
a dish for twenty minutes or more and fry until brown in deep fat. 



BAKED EGGPLANT 

Make a dressing as for stuffed peppers, using, however, a little 
more salt, pepper and butter. Cut the eggplant in two lengthwise; 
scrape out the inside; mash it fine; mix with the dressing and re- 
turn to the shells. Place on a pan in the oven and bake forty-five 
minutes. Serve in the shells, placing a doily under each half. 

169 



Trtrr^TTT A TST XrC: Manned for a 

V JiLrx!/ i AXJLiliO FamUy of Four 

BROILED EGGPLANT 

Slice the eggplant and drain it as for frying; spread the slices on 
a dish; season with salt and pepper; baste with olive oU; sprinkle 
with dried bread crumbs and broil. 

SQUASH 

Summer and winter squash are prepared and boiled in the same 
way. Wash and pare the squash; cut it into small pieces; cook 
in boiling water for half an hour; mash fine and season with salt, 
pepper and plenty of butter. 

BAKED SQUASH 

Wash a Hubbard squash and cut it into large pieces, removing 
the pulp. Place these, outer side down, in a shallow baking dish 
and bake until brown. Baked squash is eaten like baked sweet 
potatoes with butter and salt. 

STEAMED SQUASH 

Remove the top of a Hubbard squash and steam the rest imtil 
tender. Discard the pulp; scoop out the remainder of the soft 
portion; mash it, seasoning well with salt, pepper and butter; re- 
heat; return to the shell and score the dome<-shaped surface with a 
knife. Place the squash on a plate with a doily beneath it and 
serve. 

CORN ON THE COB 

Free the corn from husks and silk; have a kettle of water boihng 
hard; drop the corn into it and cook ten minutes (or longer if the 
corn is not yoimg). If a very large number of ears are put into 
the water they will so reduce the temperature that a longer time 
will be needed. In no case, however, should the corn be left too 
long in the water, as overcooking spoils the delicate flavor. 

CORN OFF THE COB 

Corn is frequently cut from the cob after it is cooked and served 
in milk or butter; but by this method much of the flavor and juice 
of the corn itself is wasted. It is better to cut the corn from the 
cob before cooking. With a sharp knife cut off the grains, not 
cutting closely enough to remove any of the woody portion of the 

170 



Planned for a VnT'TT'T ATJT T?0 

Family of Four VJl/Vjiil AULiJj/O 

skins. Then with a knife press out all the pulp and milk remaining 
in the cob; add this to the corn; season well with salt, pepper and 
butter; add a little more milk if the corn is dry; cook, preferably 
in the oven, for about ten minutes, stirring occasionally. If the 
oven is not hot, cook over the fire. 



SUCCOTASH 

To a pint of corn cooked off the cob add a pint of cooked and 
creamed Lima beans. 

CORN PUDDING 

6 ears com 1/2 teaspoon sugar 

1 cup hot milk Vi tablespoon butter 

14 teaspoon salt V2 tablespoon flour 
1 egg 

Prepare the corn as for cooking off the cob. Melt the butter; 
mix well with the flour; add the milk gradually, then the season- 
ing and corn, and last of all the beaten egg. Pour into a buttered 
baking dish and bake in a moderate oven for half an hour. 

STEWED MUSHROOMS 

1 pint mushrooms Salt and pepper 

1 tablespoon butter Flour 

Wash the mushrooms; peel them and cut off the bottom of the 
stalks. Melt the butter; add the mushrooms, sprinkling them 
with salt, pepper and flour. Let them cook slowly in the butter 
and their own liquor for about fifteen minutes. 

If desired, a few tablespoons of cream and a little grated nutmeg 
may be added to the butter, and the mushrooms served on small 
pieces of buttered toast. 



BROILED MUSHROOMS 

Wash the mushrooms; remove the stems and peel the caps. 
Place them in a broiler and broil for five minutes, with the cap side 
down during the first half of broiling. Serve on circular pieces of 
buttered toast, sprinkling with salt and pepper and putting a small 
piece of butter on each cap. 

171 



VEGETABLES Fai^y ot Four 

BAKED MUSHROOMS 

Choose the larger mushrooms for baking. Prepare them as for 
broiling and place them upside down in a shallow baking dish, 
sprinkling with salt and pepper and placing a small piece of butter 
on each. Bake for about twenty minutes, basting with a little 
melted butter. 

MUSHROOMS A LA POULETTE 

Stew the mushrooms in cream; remove from the fire and stir in 
the beaten yolks of two eggs. Return to the fire to let the eggs 
thicken; then serve at once. 



BOILED CHESTNUTS 

Boil the chestnuts a few minutes; drain and remove the shells 
and skins. Boil again until tender, adding suflBcient salt to make 
them palatable. Drain again; shake over the fire until dry; cover 
with cream sauce and serve at once. If allowed to stand the chest- 
nuts become heavy and unappetizing. 



ROASTED CHESTNUTS 

With a sharp knife cut across on the flat side of each chestnut; 
put them in a wire pan and shake constantly over a hot fire until 
the shells split. Serve at once. 

BOILED POTATOES 

If the potatoes are to be boiled in their skins, cut a narrow band 
of skin from the center of the potato and small pieces from the 
ends. If the potatoes are to be peeled, use a very sharp knife and 
remove as thin a layer as possible. If the potatoes are very young, 
the skins may be scraped off. Let the potatoes boil fifteen minutes ; 
then add a tablespoon of salt for every dozen potatoes; boil xmtil 
tender and remove immediately from the water so that they will 
not become soggy. They will be improved by being kept hot for 
an hour or more provided that they are so ventilated that they dry 
rather than retain moisture. 

Boiled potatoes may be served dry or covered with cream sauce. 

172 



Fi1^.ir'ot°Fo"ur VEGETABLES 

STEAMED POTATOES 

Steamed potatoes are prepared as for boiling, put in a closed 
vessel having a perforated bottom over a kettle of boiling water. 
They will require from thirty to forty minutes to cook. 

BAKED POTATOES 

Wash the potatoes perfectly clean and let them drain; put them 
in an old baking pan in a hot oven and bake until soft. Potatoes 
of medium size will take about forty minutes. Baked potatoes 
should be served as soon as they are done, but if they must stand 
for any time the skins should be broken so that the moisture may 
escape. 

FRENCH FRIED POTATOES 

Pare the potatoes and throw them into cold water until needed. 
Dry them with a towel; cut into small pieces lengthwise of the 
potato; drop them into hot fat and remove when hghtly browned. 
It is better to fry only a few at a time, letting those done stand in 
a colander in the oven to keep hot. When all are done, sprinkle 
with salt and serve at once. 

For variety, and for use in garnishing, cut the potatoes into 
balls, using the vegetable cutter which comes for this purpose. 

STUFFED POTATOES 

6 large potatoes 1 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon butter Dash of pepper 

14 cup milk 1 egg 

Bake the potatoes and when done cut off one end of each and 
scoop out the contents into a bowl. Mash thoroughly; add the 
butter, seasoning and milk. Then return the potato to the shells; 
dip the open end of each in beaten egg and place them on a pan in 
the oven. Brown the ends and serve. 

MASHED POTATOES 

4 medium-sized potatoes V2 teaspoon salt 

1 large tablespoon butter 4 tablespoons milk 

Boil the potatoes and drain them thoroughly; mash and beat 
with a wire beater until light; add the butter, salt and milk, 
heated. Serve at once if possible. If obliged to keep them stand ' 

12 173 



TTTrmr'TATJT T?Q Planned for a 

V JSLrJl 1 AX>L(il,0 FamUy of Four 

ing do not put a cover on the saucepan as steam makes them soggy. 
Stand over a kettle of hot water and when ready to serve put them, 
mound fashion, in a hot dish and sprinkle the top lightly with 
pepper. 

CREAMED POTATOES 
2 cups boiled potatoes 1 cup cream sauce 

Make the cream sauce thinner than usual by adding a little 
extra milk. Cut the potatoes into small cubes and mix them thor- 
oughly with the same. Cook in a double boiler until the potatoes 
are thoroughly hot; add a little chopped parsley, if desired, and 
serve. 

NEW POTATOES IN CREAM 

Scrape and boil new potatoes imtil tender; cover with cream 
sauce to which a little chopped parsley has been added, and serve. 

POTATO CROQUETTES 

2 cups mashed potatoes Salt and pepper 

2 tablespoons butter Grated nutmeg 

1/2 tablespoon chopped onion 2 eggs 

1/2 tablespoon chopped parsley Bread crumbs 

Mix the potatoes thoroughly with the butter, onion, parsley, 
salt, pepper and nutmeg. Mold them; dip in the beaten eggs; 
roll in bread crumbs; drop into hot fat and cook until a golden 
brown. 

POTATO BALLS 

Select large potatoes, as free from blemishes as possible; cut 
into balls with a vegetable cutter; cook in boiling salted water 
imtil tender; cover with melted butter and chopped parsley and 
serve. 

POTATO CAKES 

Take cold mashed potatoes or cold baked or boiled potatoes that 
have been mashed and seasoned; roU into balls, dusting the hands 
well with flour first. Flatten into cakes and saute in butter, or 
place on a buttered tin with a small piece of butter on the top of 
each and bake in a hot oven until golden brown. 

174 



gLmSforFour VEGETABLES 

LYONNAISE POTATOES 

3 boiled potatoes 

1 tablespoon butter Dash of pepper 

1/2 small onion 1/2 tablespoon minced parsley 

Slice the onion and brown it slightly in the butter; add the 
potatoes; mix well and stir until all are browned, seasoning thor- 
oughly. Just before serving add the parsley. 

SCALLOPED POTATOES No. 1 

1 pint sliced raw potatoes 1 tablespoon flour 

1 cup scalded milk 

1 large tablespoon butter 

Butter a baking dish and in the bottom put a layer of the po- 
tatoes. Sprinkle with salt, pepper and flour and dot with small 
pieces of butter. Repeat until the materials are used; pour the 
scalded milk over all and bake in a moderate oven for forty-five 
or fifty minutes. 

SCALLOPED POTATOES No. 2 

2 cups cold potatoes Salt and pepper 

2 cups cream sauce 1 cup bread cnunbs 

Butter 

Cut the potatoes into cubes; mix well with the cream sauce, 
adding more seasoning if necessary ; pour into a baking dish ; cover 
with bread crumbs and small pieces of butter and bake for about 
half an hour. 

POTATOES AU GRATIN 

2 cups cold boiled potatoes 3 tablespoons grated cheese 

2 cups cream sauce Salt and red pepper 

Buttered bread crumbs 

i Slice the potatoes and add them to the hot cream sauce. Bring 
all to a boil; remove and add the cheese and seasoning. Pour 
all into a baking dish; sprinkle bread crumbs over the top and set 
in the oven to brown. 

BROWNED POTATOES 

Either sweet or white potatoes may be browned. Boil and peel 
them, cutting them in halves if they are very large. Put them in 

175 



VEGETABLES Pamlly of Four 

a baking pan; baste with savory drippings or butter and season 
with salt. Cook in a hot oven until brown. 

The potatoes may be browned in a frying pan over the fire if the 
oven is not hot. The oven, however, is to be preferred. 

If the potatoes are to be served with a roast they may be browned 
with the meat. They should, however, never be put into the pan 
raw, as they are sure to turn dark and ugly if not boiled first. 



POTATO PUFF 

2 cups boiled potatoes 2 eggs 

2 tablespoons butter 1/2 cup scalded milk 

Salt to taste 

Use left-over mashed potatoes or potatoes freshly boiled and 
pressed through a vegetable press. Melt the butter; beat it into 
the potatoes; add the egg, beaten separately, then the hot milk 
and seasoning. Bake in one dish or in individual dishes until deli- 
cately browned. 

HASHED BROWN POTATOES 

1 pint chopped cooked potatoes Dash of pepper 

2 tablespoons cream 14 teaspoon chopped parsley 
1/2 teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon butter 

Melt the butter in a smooth frying pan and when hot add the 
other ingredients, well mixed together. Pack lightly into a layer 
of uniform thickness and cook slowly for twenty or thirty minutes. 
Fold over and serve. There should be a thick brown crust on the 
outside. 

CANDIED SWEET POTATOES 

Cut boiled sweet potatoes into long slices; place them in an 
earthen dish; butter each and sprinkle with sugar. Bake imtil 
the sugar and butter have candied and the potatoes are brown. 

FRIED SWEET POTATOES 

Wash and cut small uncooked sweet potatoes into quarters; dry 
them and lower them into boiling hot fat. Brown thoroughly; 
remove with a skimmer; drain and dry on paper; sprinkle with 
salt and serve. 

176 



Family of Four VEGETABLES 

VEGETABLE HASH 

Hash may be made with one or many vegetables and with or 
without the addition of meat and fish. Potato is the most useful 
vegetable for hash, because it combines well with meat or other 
vegetables. The vegetables must be chopped fine, well seasoned 
with salt and pepper, and parsley, onion, chives or green pepper 
if desired, and moistened with stock, milk or water, using a quar- 
ter of a cup to a pint of hash. Melt a half tablespoon of butter or 
savorj^ drippings in a pan; put in the hash, spreading it evenly and 
dropping small pieces of butter or drippings over the top. Cover 
the pan; let the hash cook over a moderate fire for half an hour; 
fold over like an omelet and serve. If properly cooked there will 
be a rich brown crust formed on the outside of the hash. 

BOILED MACARONI 

Break the macaroni into small pieces; boil for half an hour; 
drain and blanch in cold water. Reheat in tomato or cream sauce 
and serve. Grated cheese may be sprinkled over the dish if de- 
sired. 

The recipe for Baked Macaroni will be found in the chapter on 
"Meat Substitutes." 

STUFFED CUCUMBERS 

4 cucumbers Dash of grated nutmeg 

1 cup pecans or Brazil nuts 2 tablespoons melted butter 

6 tablespoons mashed potatoes 1 cup white sauce 

1 well-beaten egg 1 teaspoon capers 

1 teaspoon salt Dash of powdered cloves 

2 tablespoons chopped parsley 1 well-beaten egg 
1 saltspoon white pepper Salt and pepper 

Cut the cucumbers in half lengthwise; remove the seeds with 
a spoon; lay the cucumbers in vinegar over night; then wipe 
dry and fill with a mixture made from the chopped nuts, potatoes, 
egg, salt, parsley, pepper, nutmeg and butter. Bake in a buttered 
baking tin until tender. Serve hot with white sauce, to which has 
been added the capers, cloves, egg and seasoning. 



177 



Planned for a 



TTTji-iTyfri A -DT Tjc; rianneo tor a 

VJiiVTJitJLAliLiiilO Family of Four 



FSSSyotFoIr VEGETABLES 



i/9 



VEGETABLES Famu" of Fou» 



180 




DESSERTS 
Date Sponge Walnut and Date Dainty 



■'fltp-lVW*ifl'*»*"""!"*«w»1'0;*'WHrM/«"!J!*H iipfii|pii|upi»iW!Hiiin(«i im 



Wgy. i ^ i' iiP t W ^g yT P f ^HW w ^ tp y ^ g^jgiypjqH 



rt<-'-- 






LrLnUji^ .^■.. 



- . J£j 



VEGETABLES 
Lima Beans Corn Kidney Beans 



ENTREES 



ENTREES 

NOWHERE, perhaps, does the art of the cook display itself 
more than in the preparation and serving of entree dishes. 
Such dishes are, on the whole, difficult of preparation and require 
at all times a certain degree of care. 

Many entrees may be made from cold meats and vegetables 
left from previous meals. See some of the recipes in this chapter, 
others in the chapter, "Left-Overs." 

FRITTER BATTER 

1 cup flour y^ cup milk 

Vi teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon olive oil 

teaspoon baking powder 2 eggs 

Mix the dry ingredients thoroughly; add the milk, then the oil, 
and last the beaten eggs. 

VEGETABLE FRITTERS 

Cook the vegetables thoroughly; drain them; chop fine and 
add to the batter. Drop in boiling hot fat; drain and dry on paper. 

OYSTER FRITTERS 

Wash the oysters and parboil them; drain well and add to the 
batter. Use oyster juice instead of milk in making the batter. 
Fry in hot fat; drain and serve. 

APPLE FRITTERS 

Choose sour apples; pare, core and cut them into small slices. 
Stir into fritter batter and fry in boiling hot fat. Drain on paper: 
sprinkle with powdered sugar and serve. 

183 



ENTREES 



Planned (or a 
Family of Four 



BANANA FRITTERS 

3 banaaas 14 teaspoon salt 

1 cup flour Vs cup milk 

1 teaspoon baking powder 1 teaspoon lemon juice 

11/2 tablespoons sugar 1 egg 

Mash the bananas and mix the flour with the salt, sugar and 
baking powder. Combine the dry ingredients with the bananas, 
alternating with the mill;:. Add lemon juice and the egg, beaten 
light. Drop by spoonfuls into deep fat and fry. Drain on paper 
and sprinkle with nowdered sugar. 

BEEF KROMESKIES 

1 tablespoon butter 1 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon flour Dash of pepper 

1 cup milk 1 tablespoon parsley 

1 pint cold beef 1 teaspoon onion juice 

Melt the l)iitter; add the flour; then the milk gradually, stir- 
ring to prevent lumps. Cook until it thickens ; mix in the chopped 
beef and seasonings and set aside to cool. When cool form into 
small cylinders- dip each in fritter batter and fry in smoking hot 
fat. 

ROMAN GNOCCHI 

V4 cup butter 2 cups milk 

Vi cup flour 2 egg yolks 

Vi cup cornstarch % cup grated cheese 

Melt the butter and cook the cornstarch and flour in it without 
In-owning. Add the milk and cook three minutes, stirring con- 
stantly. Add the yolks and a half cup of theese; pour into a 
.^hallow buttered pan and cool; cut into squares; place on a shal- 
low dish; sprinkle with the remaining cheese and brown in the 
oven. 

RISSOLES 

Roll puff -paste into oblong pieces three by four inches; put 
a spoonful of creamed chicken, sweetbreads or mushrooms on one 
side; fold over and press the edges together, moistening slightly 
to make the edges stick. Brush with beaten egg and bake imtil 
a delicate brown. 

184 



Planned for « TTIVr'T'DlJTC 

FamUy of Four JiiN 1 KJD<£/0 



RICE TIMBALES 

Pack boiled rice into small buttered molds; let stand in hot 
water for fifteen minutes and serve as a garnish or as an entree 
with some sweet sauce. 



SWEDISH TIMBALES 

% cup flour 1/2 cup milk 

Vz teaspoon salt 1 egg 

1 tablespoon olive oil 

Sift the flour and salt; add the milk and beaten egg gradually, 
beating constantly with a wire beater; add the oil and continue 
beating until the batter is perfectly smooth. 

Put the timbale iron in a kettle of hot fat for about twenty 
minutes. Take the bowl of batter in the left hand and hold it 
near the kettle of hot fat; with the right hand lift the iron from 
the fat; wipe it on soft paper; dip it into the batter, coating the 
iron to within three quarters of an inch from the top, allow the 
batter to dry and then dip it in the hot fat, holding the iron a 
little sidewise until it is in the fat; then turn perpendicularly and 
cook until the batter is a delicate brown. Take the iron out 
the same way it was put in, being very careful not to drop the 
timbale into the fat; drain the grease off and lay timbale on paper 
to drain. Wipe the drops of grease from the iron with a soft 
paper every time it is used. Fill the timbales with creamed fish, 
oysters, chicken or sweetbreads. 



TIMBALE OF MACARONI 

Boil macaroni as usual in salted water; rinse in cold water and 
cut into pieces a third of an inch long. Line a mold with these, 
spreading the bottom and sides thickly with butter first and setting 
the open ends of the macaroni against the butter. Spread over 
the macaroni a forcemeat suitable to whatever is to constitute the 
filling of the timbale; then fill up the mold with highly seasoned 
fish, game, poultry or oysters. Moisten with sauce; cover with 
more forcemeat, pinching the edges well together so that the 
sauce will not break through in cooling. Set the mold in a pan of 
hot water; cover with buttered paper and bake in a moderate 
oven for half an hour. 

185 



ENTREES pr'Xlff'F^o'u? 



Family of Four 



CHICKEN A LA KING 



1 cup chicken, cubed Vz cup chicken broth 

2 mushrooms . Vi cup cream 

y^ green pepper Salt and paprika to taste 

1 tablespoon butter '/^ teaspoon lemon juice 

1 1/2 tablespoons flour 1 egg yolk 

Cook mushrooms and pepper in \ tablcspoonful butter; melt 
rest of butter; remove from heat; add flour and stir until smooth ; 
add stock and cream and return to fire; when boiling add other 
ingredients with egg yolk last. Serve on toast and garnish with 
parsley. 

CHICKEN A LA CRANE 

1 cup cold chicken 1 cup boiled mushrooms 

1 cup cream sauce 

Cut the chicken into small cubes; add the mushrooms, quar- 
tered; stir all into the cream sauce; heat thoroughly and serve 
in patty shells or patty cups. 



CHICKEN PATTIES 

2 cups cold chicken Grated nutmeg 

1 cup cream sauce 

Cut the chicken into small cubes; add a little grated nutmeg; 
stir into the cream sauce; heat thoroughly and serve in patty 
shells or patty cups. 

MEAT PATTIES 

Meat patties of various kinds may be made according to the 
recipe for chicken patties. 



HAM PATTIES 

1 cup cold chopped ham 

14 cup fine bread crumbs 

1 tablespoon butter 1 cup imlk 

Mix the ingredients thoroughly and put a layer in the bottom 
of buttered patty cups. Break an egg over the top of each; dust 
with pepper and salt; cover with fine bread or cracker crumbs 
and bake about eight minutes in a quick oven. 

186 



Fi1S!iro^f°L"ur ENTREES 

PATTY SHELLS 

Follow the directions for making puff-paste. One half pound 
of flour will make about six patty shells. 

Roll the paste to a thickness of one fourth inch; stamp out 
with a large round cutter and cut the centers from half of the 
rounds. Lay the rings thus made on the whole rounds, pressing 
them down so that they will stick together. In cold weather 
it may be necessary to wet the top of the large rounds near the 
edge to make sure that the rings will not slip. If deeper patty 
shells are wished two or three rings may be placed on top of the 
rounds instead of one. 

Have the oven as hot as for baking white bread. The shells 
should rise in ten minutes and then take twenty minutes longer 
to bake through and brown. There will usually be a little soft 
dough left in the center. This should be carefully removed 
with a fork. 

VOL-AU-VENT 

Roll puff -paste one half inch thick and from it cut out two large 
ovals, using a sharp knife first dipped in flour. Place it on a shal- 
low baking tin; cut a smaller oval from the second piece and lay 
the ring on the first, moistening slightly so that the two will stick 
together when baked. Roll out the piece cut from the second 
oval until it is the size of the others and bake in a separate pan as 
a cover for the vol-au-vent, Bake in a hot oven, covering with 
paper after the first fifteen minutes. It will require three quarters 
of an hour or longer; and unless baked thoroughly the crust will 
fall in cooling. When ready to use, reheat and fill with creamed 
oysters or game; or for dessert fill with sugared fruit and serve 
with whipped cream. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES 

V/2 cups cold chicken V2 teaspoon onion juice 

1 tablespoon butter 1/2 teaspoon salt 

1/2 tablespoon flour Vi teaspoon pepper 

Yz cup milk or stock V2 tablespoon lemon juice 

Dash of nutmeg 1 egg 

Bread crumbs and beaten egg 



Cook the] flour in the butter; add the milk gradually; then the 
seasonings and chicken. Remove from the fire; add the egg, well 
beaten; mix and cool. Shaoe in small cones; dip in another 

187 



VfST'D'tfl^Cl Planned for A 

CjVI 1 XU!<£<0 Family of Four 

beaten egg; roll in bread crumbs; put in a wire frying-basket and 
lower into boiling hot fat. Test the fat by lowering a piece of 
stale bread into it; if the bread browns in thirty seconds the 
fat is suiEciently hot. Fry the croquettes a light brown; drain 
over the fat; lay on brown paper in a warm place for a few minutes 
and serve. 

MEAT CROQUETTES 

Veal, mutton, lamb, beef and turkey croquettes may be prepared 
in the same way as chicken croquettes. The secrets of success 
are to have the croquettes well coated with egg and crumbs and 
the fat sufficiently hot. Olive oil, cottolene, suetine, lard, or a 
mixture of any of these with drippings will serve the purpose; 
but olive oil is best. 

RICE CROQUETTES 

1 cup boiled rice 1 teaspoon melted butter 

1 egg Salt to taste 

1 teaspoon sugar Cream 

Beat the egg light; mix with other ingredients, using enough 
cream to make the rice malleable. Make into croquettes; dip 
in egg and fine cracker or bread crumbs and stand for several 
hours in a cold place, Fry in deep fat, very hot, 

SALMI OF GAME 

1 cup brown sauce 1 teaspoon catsup 

6 mushrooms Vi teaspoon lemon juice 

1 cup cooked duck V4 teaspoon onion juice 
Salt and pepper 

Stir the game and mushrooms into the orown sauce and cook 
until thoroughly heated. AVhen ready to serve add catsup, onion 
and lemon and season with salt and pepper. 

CURRIED RABBIT 

- cup chopped cold rabbit j Va teaspoon onion juice 

1 cup brown sauce 1 teaspoon curry powder 

Add the rabbit meat to the brown sauce; cook until thoroughly 
heated; season and serve in a border of rice. 

188 



Planned for a 



FamUy of°Four ENTREES 



13 189 



ENTREES Planned for » 



Family of Four 



199 



SALADS 



SALADS 

SALADS are seldom difficult of preparation and the resourceful 
housewife will find ever- widening possibilities. The salad, 
too, may in one sense be regarded as an economic provision in 
the menu, for in no other way can so many ' 'left-overs " be attract- 
ively presented upon the table. For this reason, no doubt, some 
one has suggested that the salad must have originated in New 
England, the time-honored source of all the economies. 

The thing of chief importance in making salads is to have 
everything crisp and cold both at the time of making and the 
time of serving. Greens should be carefully washed in cold 
water always, and if not especially fresh should be allowed to 
stand in water for several hours. After removing them, dry by 
a vigorous swinging in a wire basket or by pressing them lightly 
between a clean folded towel or napkin. The dressing should 
not be added until the moment of serving, and the salad should 
be kept upon the ice as long as possible. 

Recipes for several kinds of dressing are here given. Mayon- 
naise is perhaps more generally used than any; but many per- 
sons dislike the taste of olive oil and prefer a cooked salad dressing. 
Lettuce and other leaf salads are usually considered better served 
with French dressing, and the latter is more delicate than any 
other dressing and therefore better adapted to some combinations. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING 

Yolk of 1 egg V2 teaspoon salt 

1 cup oil Dash of red pepper 

2 teaspoons vinegar or lemon juice V2 teaspoon mustard 

Beat the egg in a cold dish with a silver or wooden fork. If 
the weather is very warm, place the dish in a larger vessel filled 
with chopped ice. When the egg is beaten add the seasoning and 

193 



<5AT A"nQ Planned for a 

viALtAUO Family of Four 

the oil, drop by drop, being careful to beat well without reversing 
the motion for fear of curdling. When the dressing thickens begin 
adding the vinegar drop by drop. Then add more olive oil, then 
more acid, continuing until all are consumed. Be sure to have all 
the ingredients and dishes as cold as possible. 

If the mixture should curdle, begin Immediately with a fresh 
egg in a fresh dish, and when It is well beaten add carefully the 
curdled mixture, drop by drop. 

COLORED MAYONNAISE 

To color Mayonnaise green add one tablespoon of ravigote herbs 
to the finished dressing; or chop parsley leaves very fine; pound 
them in a small quantity of lemon juice; strain and add the juice 
to the dressing. 

To color Mayonnaise red rub one scant tablespoon of lobster 
coral through a fine sieve and add it to the dressing. 

WHITE MAYONNAISE 

To make white Mayonnaise follow the ordinary directions, 
using lemon juice instead of vinegar, omitting the mustard and 
adding, when finished, a half cup of whipped cream or half an egg 
white beaten very stiff. 

COOKED DRESSING (MOCK MAYONNAISE) 

1 cup milk 1 teaspoon ilour 

1 tablespoon butter 1 egg 

2 teaspoons mustard 1 tablespoon vinegar 
2 teaspoons sugar 1/2 teaspoon salt 

Heat the milk and butter; add the egg into which the mustard 
and sugar and flour have been well beaten. Stir over the fire 
until the mixture thickens; add the vinegar; take from the fire 
and add the salt. This may be used in place of Mayonnaise dress- 
ing by those who do not care for oil. 

CREAM DRESSING 

1 cup cream 1 tablespoon vinegar 

1 tablespoon sugar l^ teaspoon salt 

Dash of red pepper 

Mix the sugar, vinegar, salt and pepper thoroughly together; 
then add the cream gradually. 

194 



Planned for a CAT ATkC 

Family of Four OAl^AX^O 

FRENCH DRESSING 

2 tablespoons vinegar 1 teaspoon salt 

6 tablespoons olive oil 1/2 teaspoon paprika 

Put the salt and paprika in a bowl; add a little oil and beat well; 
then gradually add the remainder of the oil, stirring constantly. 
Last of all stir in the vinegar, drop by drop. 

SALAD DRESSING IN LARGE QUANTITY 

3 eggs 1 teaspoon mustard 
3 tablespoons flour 1/2 cup vinegar 

11/2 cups cold water 3 egg yolks 

Red and black pepper 1 cup oUve oil 

Salt 

Beat the three whole eggs; add the mustard and flour well mixed 
with the water and a little red and black pepper. Put the vinegar 
on to boil and while boUiag add the egg and mustard mixture, 
stirring constantly until it thickens. When cold add a Mayonnaise 
made of the three egg yolks and olive oil. Add salt after all is 
finished. 

This makes about a quart and is useful for chicken salad or for 
any purpose where a large quantity of dressing is needed. In 
winter it will keep a week or more. 

CHICKEN SALAD 

1 ^cup cold cooked chicken Mayonnaise dressing 

1 cup chopped celery Lettuce 

Stuffed olives 

Mix the chicken and celery thoroughly with Mayonnaise dress- 
mg; pour into a bowl lined with lettuce leaves; throw a little 
more dressing over the top and garnish with stuffed olives. 

TOMATO SURPRISES 

3/4 cup cold chopped meat Vz saltspoon salt 

y-i tablespoon chopped onion 4 tablespoons Mayonnaise 

y^ tablespoon Worcestershire sauce 4 tomatoes 
Lettuce 

Season the meat with onion, sauce and salt, and mix with the 
dressing. Have the tomatoes very cold; cut a slice from the 
stem end and scoop out the seeded portion. Fill each with the 
salad mixture and serve on a leaf of crisp lettuce. 

195 



SALADS '''""°"' '"' " 



Family of Four 



SARDINE SALAD 



1 small box sardines 3 hard-boiled eggs 

Juice of y^ lemon Mayonnaise dressing 

Prepare the sardines, free from oil, bones and skin; season with 
lemon juice; cut into small pieces and mix with the eggs, finely 
chopped. Arrange on a bed of lettuce leaves and serve with 
Mayonnaise dressing. 

SHRIMP SALAD 

I can shrimps 1 head lettuce 

1 stalk celery 1/2 cup Mayonnaise dressmg 

Olives and radishes 

Remove the shrimps from the can; cover with cold water and 
let stand a few minutes. Drain; dry between towels, and break 
into small pieces. Cut the celery into half -inch pieces; mix 
with the shrimps and the Mayonnaise dressing, and arrange on 
lettuce leaves, garnishing with olives or radishes. 

SALMON SALAD 

1 can salmon Mayonnaise dressing 

1 head lettuce Ripe olives 

Remove the salmon from the can; wash in a colander under 
running water and drain. On each salad plate make a nest of lettuce 
leaves and in it bury a portion of the salmon, broken into small 
pieces and covered with Mayonnaise. Garnish with ripe olives. 

LOBSTER SALAD 

1 boiled lobster Mayonnaise dressing 

1 head lettuce Lobster coral 

Cut boiled lobster into one-inch pieces and keep on ice until 
ready to serve. Arrange fresh lettuce in a bowl ; pour the lobster 
well mixed with Mayonnaise in the center; smooth the top; cover 
well with dressing and sprinkle with powdered lobster coral. 

LETTUCE SALAD 

Throw away the outer leaves of the head of lettuce; wash the 
rest carefully in running water and dry them in a clean towel. 
Break or tear the leaves into convenient pieces and serve with 
Mayonnaise, cream or French dressing. 

196 




t-a^S 



■SS* 







LEFT-OVERS 

Fish Cutlets Blanquette of Cliicken with Peas Cusls a la Creme 



^^p^wwwi 





~ws^ 




DESSERTS 
Raisin PuSs Chocolate Eclairs Blanc Mm^c 



Planned for a C* A T A T\C< 

FamUy of Four oALfAUO 



COMBINATION SALAD 

Scald tomatoes; remove the skin and place them on ice. Wash 
and drain lettuce; arrange in a salad bowl; slice the tomatoes 
over it and serve with Mayonnaise or French dressing. 

NOVEL TOMATO SALAD 

1 cup cherry tomatoes 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

1 cup small yellow tomatoes French dressing 

1 clove garlic Lettuce 

Scald the tomatoes ; peel carefully and set on the ice to cool. At 
serving time rub the salad bowl with garHc and line with heart 
leaves of lettuce. Place the yellow tomatoes in the center and the 
red ones around them. Cover with French dressing and sprinkle 
with the parsley. 

TOMATO JELLY 

Vi box gelatine 1 bay leaf 

Vi cup cold water 1/2 teaspoon chopped parsley 

Juice from 1 pint tomatoes Salt and pepper 

1/2 teaspoon onion juice Lettuce 

1 teaspoon sugar Mayonnaise dressing 

Soak the gelatine in the water for one hour. Bring to a boil 
the liquor drained from a pint can of tomatoes and add to it the 
seasoning and herbs. Let this simmer for twenty minutes; add 
the gelatine; stir until dissolved and strain through a cloth into 
molds — preferably individual ones. Serve on lettuce leaves with 
Mayonnaise dressing or use as a garnish for other salads. 

DEVILED EGGS 

6 eggs 1 tablespoon olive oil or butter 

14 teaspoon mustard Salt and red pepper 

A little vinegar if desired 

BoU the eggs for fifteen minutes; then throw them into cold 
water to prevent the whites from darkening. Remove the shells; 
cut in halves lengthwise; take out the yolks carefully and mash 
them with the oil or butter and seasoning. If desired, a tablespoon 
of minced ham or tongue or a little chopped parsley and onion 
may be added. Fill the cavity of each half with the paste and set 
in a cool place until needed. Serve on crisp lettuce leaves or on a 
platter garnished with parsley or watercress. 

197 



Q ^^ AT C rianned for a 

Ori.L(iiJ>0 F:imi!y of Four 

PEPPER AND CREAM CHEESE SALAD 

1 large green pepper 2 tablespoons chopped walnuts 

1 cream cheese Mayonnaise dressing 

Lettuce 

Select a large pepper that is sweet; cut off the stem end ; remove 
the seeds and turn it upside down to drain. Mash the cream 
cheese; mix with the walnuts and press into the pepper, being 
careful to fill all the crevices. Set away on the ice for several 
hours; when ready to serve cut into thin slices and serve on crisp 
lettuce leaves with Mayonnaise dressing. 

NASTURTIUM SALAD 

1 head lettuce^ French dressing 

1 tablespoon nasturtium seeds Nasturtium blossoms 

AVash the lettuce and place it in a bowl; scatter the seeds over 
llie top; cover with French dressing and garnish with nasturtium 
blossoms. 

EGG SALAD 

6 hard-boiled eggs 1 head lettuce 

Mayonnaise dressing 

Cut the whites of the eggs into rings azid arrange them on the 
lettuce leaves; sift over them the yolks, using a fine wire sieve. 
Serve with Mayonnaise dressing. 

POTATO SALAD No. 1 

4 boiled potatoes French dressing 

1 chopped onion Lettuce 

1 hard-boiled egg 

To make the best salad do not use left-over potatoes, but boil 
them freshly, removing them from the water the moment they are 
tender. Slice carefully; mix with the onion and French dressing 
and serve on lettuce leaves garnished with slices of hard-boiled 
egR. 

POTATO SALAD No. 2 

4 boiled potatoes Mayonnaise dressing 

4 hard-boiled eggs Lettuce 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

Boil the potatoes, removing them from the water as soon as they 
are tender; slice and mix with the eggs, finely chopped, and the 

198 



Planned for a CAT ATkC 

Family of Four Oiil^AJ-»0 

Mayonnaise. Serve on lettuce leaves and sprinkle parsley over 
the top. 

COLD SLAW 

Select a small, compact cabbage; strip off the outside leaves 
and cut the head in quarters. With a sharp knife slice very thin; 
soak in cold water until crisp; drain and dry between clean towels. 
Mix with hot dressing and serve when cold. 

COLD-SLAW DRESSING 

2 eggs I teaspoon sugar 

1 cup vinegar Vz tablespoon butter 

Vi teaspoon salt 

Beat the eggs thoroughly; add the other ingredients and cook 
all over boiling water until the mixture thickens. 

BEET SALADS 

1. Cut cold cooked beets into half -inch dice; mix with shredded 
lettuce leaves or watercress, and serve on whole lettuce leaves, 
covered with French dressing. 

2. Arrange alternate layers of cold cooked beets and hard-boiled 
eggs on a bed of lettuce leaves, and sprinkle over the top a little 
finely-chopped onion. Serve with French dressing. 

3. Arrange alternate layers of cold cooked beets and cabbage, 
finely chopped and well mixed with Mayonnaise or cooked salad 
dressing. Serve on lettuce. 

CUCUMBER SALAD 

2 dozen cucumbers 1 gill olive oil 

6 small onions 1 tablespoon celery seed 

6 tablespoons salt 1 quart vinegar 

Cucumber salad should be made in large quantities, as it will 
keep indefinitely and is good to serve in emergencies. Peel and 
sHce thin the cucumbers and onions; spread in layers; sprinkle 
with salt and let stand for several hours. Then drain. Mix the 
oil and celery seed; add the vinegar, drop by drop, and pour over 
the cucumbers and onions. Mix well; put into sterilized pint 
jars; seal and set away in a cool, dark place. 

199 ' 



^AT Ari<s Planned for a 

Oli-l^AUO FamUy of Fouf 

WINTER SALAD 

1 small head lettuce 2 juicy apples 

1 lemon " '_ 

Mayonnaise dressing 

Pare the apples and lemon and cut them into thin slices. Mix 
thoroughly with the celery and cover with Mayonnaise or French 
dressing. Serve on crisp lettuce leaves. 



SALMAGUNDI SALAD 

3 boiled white potatoes 1 apple 

V2 cucumber 14 teaspoon celery salt 

V2 cup cooked peas 1 hard-boiled egg 

Mayonnaise dressing 

Slice the potatoes; chop the cucumber, apple and egg; then mis 
all the ingredients together, pouring over them Mayonnaise dress- 
ing. Serve on crisp lettuce leaves. 



WATER-LILY SALAD 

1 head lettuce 6 hard-boiled eggs 

Mayonnaise dressing 

Line a circular dish with the lettuce. Cut the whites ol the 
eggs in pieces lengthwise, like the petals of a water-lily. Arrange 
the pieces in circular form on the lettuce, and in the center pour 
the yolks of the eggs well mixed with Mayonnaise. Or lay a large 
green leaf on each individual plate and make a small lily with 
each egg. 

CAULIFLOWER SALAD 

1 small cauUflower French dressing 

2 tablespoons lemon juice Lettuce 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

Wash the cauliflower carefully; tie in a cloth and cook in boiling, 
salted water until thoroughly tender. When done remove the 
cloth; pour the lemon juice over the cauliflower and set it on the 
ice to cool. \Vhen ready to serve separate the flowerets ; lay them 
on lettuce leaves ; cover with French dressing and sprinkle parsley 
over the top. 

200 



Planned for a C A T A TkC! 

Family of Four OiiX/AJJO 

NORMANDY SALAD 

1 small can French peas 
1/2 teaspoon sugar 
Salt and pepper 1 small head lettuce 

Cook the peas slowly in their own liquor, seasoning them with 
salt, pepper and sugar. When the peas have absorbed all the 
liquor, set them aside to cool; mix with the chopped pecans and 
Mayonnaise and serve on lettuce leaves. 

MARINE SALAD 

4 cuciunbers 1 onion 

2 green peppers French dressing 

Scoop out the inside of the unpeeled cucumbers, which will 
then have the appearance of small green boats. Chop the pulp 
thus removed with the peppers and onion and mix well with French 
dressing. Fill the boats and in the bow of each erect a whita sail 
cut from paper and fastened to a long toothpick. 

WATERMELON SALAD 

2 cups watermelon Vi teaspoon grated nutmeg 

4 tablespoons sugar Juice of 1 orange 

1 teaspoon cinnamon Lettuce 

Line a salad bowl with lettuce leaves and in it place the water- 
melon cut into small cubes. Mix the sugar, cinnamon and nutmeg, 
and sprinkle over the melon; then pour the orange juice over all. 

FRUIT SALAD 

2 bananas Juice of 1/2 lemon 
2 oranges Lettuce 

French dressing 

Slice the bananas and oranges and pour the lemon juice over all. 
I Serve on lettuce leaves with French dressing. 

FRUIT AND NUT SALAD 

2 bananas Juice of 1/2 lemon 

2 oranges Lettuce 

V^ cup English walnuts French dressing 

Slice the bananas and oranges and mix them with the nuts and 
lemon juice. Serve on lettuce leaves with French dressing. 

201 



OAT A Tk C Planned for a 

OALiAU^ Family of Four 



WALNUT SALAD 

1 cup walnut meats Lettuce 

1 cup chopped celery Mayonnaise dressing 

Procure the best grade of walnuts and remove the meat 
from the shells in perfect halves. Mix walnuts and celery with 
Mayonnaise dressing and serve on crisp lettuce leaves. 

Apples cored and cut into cubes may be substituted for the 
celery, or may be added to both nuts and celery if desired. 

PEANUT SALAD 

1 cup shelled peanuts 2 cups chopped celery 

Olive oil 1 dozen ripe olives 

Lettuce 

Soak the peanuts in olive oil ; drain and mix with the celery and 
olives, pitted and minced. Serve on lettuce, adding seasoning or 
dressing as desired. 

BANANA SALAD 

Peel the bananas and scrape them carefully to remove all stringj' 
matter. Roll each in grated nuts and lay on a lettuce leaf. Serve 
with Mayormaise dressing. 

FRUIT PYRAMIDS 

On each salad plate lay a leaf of fresh lettuce, then a slice of 
canned pineapple, then whole slices of pared apple, orange, peach, 
plum or any other fruit that is in season. On the top place a 
nuirascuino cherry, and pour over all a dressing made of equal 
[iarts of lemon juice and olive oil. / 

OCTOBER SALAD 

4 red apples 1/2 cup canned cherries 

1 grape-fruit 3 tablespoons lemon juice 

2 tablespoons powdered sugar 4 autumn leaves 

Select hard red apples; wash and dry them ; cut a slice from the 
top of each and remove the hearts. After taking the cores from 
the hearts chop them together with the grape-fruit and cherries ; 
mix with the sugar and lemon juice and return to the apple cases. 
Place each apple on a brilliant autumn leaf. 

202 



Planned for a C A T A TiC 
FamUy of Four OAJLA-UO 

GRAPE-FRUIT SALAD 

Cut the grape-fruit in halves and remove the pulp, being careful 
to get none of the tough white skin. Mix with bananas and oranges 
and stir iii white Mayonnaise dressing. Remove all skin from 
the inside of the grape-fruit and fill with the mixture, heaping 
it high and ornamenting with maraschino cherries. Lay each 
half in a bed of lettuce leaves and serve. 

FRAISE SALAD 

Cut fresh strawberries in half lengthwise; cover with powdered 
sugar and kirsch and chill thoroughly. Serve in nests of lettuce 
leaves with white Mayonnaise. 

GRAPE-FRUIT AND PINEAPPLE SALAD 

Cut the grape-fruit in half and remove the pulp with a spoon, 
being careful to get none of the tough white skin. Mix with fresh 
or canned pineapple and serve on crisp lettuce leaves, covered 
with white Mayonnaise dressing. 

TULIP SALAD 

4 ripe tomatoes Mayonnaise dressing 

12 chopped pecans Lettuce 

Scald the tomatoes; remove the skins and chill thoroughly. 
Then with a sharp knife cut from blossom-end to stem-end into 
points and press open, leaving a round bulb of seeds in the center. 
Mix a little Mayonnaise with the pecans and place a spoonful 
on the top of each bulb. Serve on lettuce leaves. 

BANANA DAINTY 

Cut the bananas in half crosswise and arrange them on a plate, 
radiating from the center. Sprinkle with grated nuts or nutmeg 
and heap white Mayonnaise in the center. Garnish with maras- 
chino cherries. 



203 



C! A T A T^ Q Planned for a 

OAiyAl-*0 Family of Four 



2(34 



PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS 



14 



PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS 

THE dessert is by no means an unimportant part of the meal; 
for, though frequently heavy and indigestible, it may be both 
dainty and wholesome. Custards and all milk desserts are to be 
recommended, especially in families where there are children. 
Many persons will take eggs and milk in this form when they 
would reject them in any other. 

Care should be taken in planning the menu to have a dessert 
that "goes well" with the other courses. It is a mistake to offer 
mince pie or plum pudding after a heavy turkey dinner, as is so 
frequently done; a light dessert would be much more acceptable. 

RICE PUDDING 

2 quarts milk % cup rice 

1/2 teaspoon salt % cup sugar 

Grated nutmeg or cinnamon 

Wash the rice; mix with half the mUk and the salt and sugar 
and pour into a buttered pudding dish. Bake for several hours in a 
slow oven, stirring frequently and adding the rest of the milk. 
^Vhen the last milk is added, grate nutmeg over the top and let 
the pudding brown. 

A cup of seeded or seedless raisins may be baked in the pudding 
if desired. 

BOILED CUSTARD 

2 cups hot milk 2 tablespoons sugar 

Pinch of salt 2 eggs or yolks of 3 eggs 

1/2 teaspoon vanilla 

Put the milk on to heat in a double boiler. Beat the eggs thor- 
oughly with the sugar; into them pour the hot milk, stirring to 
prevent lumps. Return all to the double boiler and cook until 
the custard coats the spoon, but no longer. If the mixture should 
curdle, set the boiler in a pan of cold water and beat with a wire 

207 



PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS F^^Sy'^Fo^ 

egg-beater until smooth. When the steam passes off add the 
vanilla or other flavoring. 

In the winter, when eggs are expensive, the custard may be made 
with one egg and one heaping teaspoon of cornstarch dissolved in 
a little cold milk. 

If desired, the whites of the eggs may be beaten separately and 
added to the custard after it is cold or beaten with sugar into a 
meringue. 

RICE MERINGUE No. 1 

% cup rice Yolks of 4 eggs 

Vi poimd butter Little grated lemon rind 

1/2 cup powdered sugar Whites of 4 eggs 

1 quart milk 4 tablespoons granulated sugar 

Juice of 1 lemon 

Boil the rice in water; while hot add the butter; when cool add 
the sugar, milk, beaten yolks and lemon. Pour into a buttered 
pudding dish and cover with a meringue made of the whites of 
eggs and granulated sugar, flavored with lemon juice. Brown in a 
hot oven. 

RICE MERINGUE No. 2 

2 tablespoons rice Pinch of salt 

1 quart milk Lemon or vanilla flavoring 

Yolks of 2 eggs Whites of 2 eggs 

4 tablespoons sugar 2 tablespoons sugar 

Cook the rice in a little water; drain and add the yolks, sugar, 
salt and flavoring. Cover with meringue and brown in the oven. 



CORNSTARCH PUDDING 

3 cups scalded milk 1/3 cup sugar 

6 level tablespoons cornstarch Vi teaspoon salt 

V4 cup cold milk 2 eggs 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Mix the cornstarch with the cold milk; stir the scalded milk 
slowly into this mixture and stir over hot water until the cornstarch 
thickens. Beat the eggs slightly; add sugar and salt; pour over 
them the cornstarch mixture and cook one minute longer. Serve 
cold with cream and sugar. 

208 



pimSvof Four PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS 



Family of Four 



CHOCOLATE PUDDING 

2 tablespoons cornstarch 2 tablespoons grated chocolate 
1 pint milk 1/2 cup sugar 

Dissolve the cornstarch in a little cold milk or water and add it 
to the pint of milk which has just been brought to a boil. Add 
the sugar and chocolate; boil until the mixture thickens; pour 
into wet molds and set aside to cool. At serving time turn from 
molds and serve with whipped cream or boiled custard sauce. 

COCOANUT CORNSTARCH 

1 cup shredded cocoanut 1 pint milk 

3 tablespoons sugar WTiites of 3 eggs 

2 tablespoons cornstarch 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Custard sauce 

Mix the sugar and cornstarch in a double boiler; add the milk 
and stir over the fire until it thickens; then add the cocoanut 
and cook slowly for half an hour, stirring occasionally. Remove 
from the fire; add the stiffly beaten whites and the vanilla and 
pour into a wet mold. Turn from the mold when chilled and 
serve with custard sauce. 

COCOANUT JUNKET 

4 tablespoons shredded cocoanut 1 junket tablet 

1 quart milk 1 tablespoon cold water 

2 tablespoons sugar 2 teaspoons vanilla 

Mix the cocoanut and milk and let them stand in a warm 
oven for half an hour. Add sugar; strain when dissolved, and 
add the tablet dissolved in the cold water. Add the flavoring; 
pour the junket into glasses and let stand in a warm place, 
until firm. Remove to cool place, and at serving time sprinkle 
with sugar and cocoanut. Serve with or without cream. 

MOCK CHARLOTTE 

Whites of 4 eggs 1/2 cup sugar 

3 tablespoons cornstarch V^ teaspoon vanilla 
1 cup boiling water Custard sauce 

Moisten the cornstarch with a little cold water; pour over it 
the boihng water and sugar and cook until the mixture begins to 
clarify. Pour while hot over the well-beaten whites of the eggs; 

209 



PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS FamllyofFJu'r 

mix and flavor and turn into a bowl that has been rinsed in 
cold water. At serving time turn out and pour custard around it. 

ORANGE PUDDING 

2 oranges Yolks of 2 eggs 

1 pint milk 1 tablespoon cornstarch 

yi cup sugar Whites of 2 eggs 

2 tablespoons sugar 

Shce the oranges into a pudding dish. Bring the milk to a boil 
and pour it on the egg which has been well beaten with the sugar 
and cornstarch. Boil until the mixture thickens ; pour over the 
oranges; cover with a meringue made of the whites of eggs and 
the two tablespoons of sugar; brown quickly in the oven. 



BLANC MANGF 

6 level tablespoons cornstarch ly^ cups scalded milk 

y. cup cold milk Pinch of salt 

'i cup sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 



\ 



Stir the cornstarch and cold milk together, adding the sugar. 
Pour the scalded milk slowly over the first mixture and stir until 
it thickens. Cook in a double boiler for twelve minutes; pour into 
a wet mold and stand aside to cool. When ready to serve, turn 
from the mold and decorate with candied cherries or preserved 
fruit. Serve with cream and sugar or with boiled custard sauce. 

RICE BLANC MANGE 

6 tablespoons ground rice Vs cup sugar 

1 quart milk 1 teaspoon flavoring 

Soak the rice for twenty minutes; stir into the milk; boil and 
stir until it thickens, using a double boiler to prevent sticking. 
Add sugar and flavoring; pour into wet molds and stand away to 
cool. Serve with sugar and cream. 

HOMINY PUDDING 

2 tablespoons ground hominy 4 tablespoons sugar 
1 quart milk 3 eggs 

Pinch of salt 1 teaspoon flavoring 

Pick over the hominy and let it soak in the milk for half an hour; 
cook in a double boiler for forty -five minutes; pour over the beaten 

210 



FlmllfofVur PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS 



yolks and sugar ; add flavoring and beaten whites; bake in a slow- 
oven for about twenty minutes. Serve with lemon, chocolate or 
other sauce. 

ALMOND CREAM 

1 pint scalded milk 1 heaping tablespoon cornstarch 

Yolks of 2 eggs 3 drops almond extract 

3 tablespoons brown sugar Whites of 2 eggs 

2 tablespoons sugar 

Beat the yolks with the brown sugar and cornstarch; pour on 
them the scalded milk; stir until the mixture thickens; flavor and 
pour into a baking dish. With the whites of the eggs and granu- 
lated sugar make a meringue; spread over the custard and brown 
in the oven. 

TAPIOCA CUSTARD 

3 tablespoons tapioca 4 tablespoons powdered sugar 
1 quart milk Whites of 3 eggs 

Yolks of 3 eggs Pinch of salt 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Soak the tapioca over night; drain and put over the fire in the 
milk; boil slowly half an hour or until the tapioca is transparent. 
Pour this mixture on the yolks, well beaten with the sugar; and 
boil all until a custard is formed. Remove from the fire; add the 
beaten whites, salt and flavoring. Lemon juice may be substi- 
tuted for the vanilla if preferred. 

COCOANUT TAPIOCA 

4 tablespoons tapioca Vs cup shredded cocoanut 
1 quart milk 1 teaspoon vanilla 
Yolks of 3 eggs Whites of 3 eggs 

% cup sugar 3 tablespoons sugar 

Soak the tapioca in water over night; drain and add the milk. 
Bring slowly to the boihng point; stir in the yolks of the eggs, 
beaten with the sugar. Cook until the custard thickens, stirring 
all the time; then remove from the fire and add the cocoanut 
and the vanilla. Make a meringue of the whites of eggs and sugar; 
pile lightly over the custard and set in the oven until delicately 
browned. 

211 



PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS FamTolFJur 

MOUl^TAIN-DEW PUDDING 

6 rolled soda crackers 'y 1 quart milk (^ ^^v* ij'V^ 

Yolks of 4 eggs ,r Vi cup sugar ;••>•<" 

1 tablespoon butter '' Whites of 4 eggs 

4 tablespoons sugar 

Beat the yolks of the eggs and mix thoroughly with the crackers 
and butter; stir in gradually the milk and sugar; pour into a but- 
tered pudding dish and bake for half an hour. Make a meringue 
of the whites of eggs and the four tablespoons of sugar; spread 
this over the top; brown and serve when cool. 



CUP CUSTARDS 

4 cups scalded milk 4 tablespoons sugar 

4 eggs 1/4 teaspoon salt 

Grated nutmeg 

Beat the eggs with the sugar and salt; add the milk and pour 
into cups, grating nutmeg over each. Set the cups in a pan of hot 
water and bake in a slow oven until the custard is set. Test by 
running a silver knife through the custard: if it comes out clean 
the custard is done. Overcooking will make the custard " watery. " 



CARAMEL CUSTARD 

4 cups scalded milk 4 eggs 

Va cup sugar Vi teaspoon salt ■ 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Melt the sugar until it is light brown in color; add it to the milk. 
Beat the eggs; add the milk and sugar, salt and flavoring, and 
bake in cups as directed for cup custards. Serve with caramel 
sauce. 

APPLE SNOW 

1 large sour apple Whites of 2 eggs 

% cup powdered sugar Boiled custard 

Peel and grate the apple, sprinkling the sugar over it as it is 
grated to keep it from turning dark. Add the unbeaten whites 
of the eggs; beat constantly for half an hour; arrange moimd- 
fashion on a glass dish with cold boiled custard around it. 

212 



#,:.•■"- 




.M>^;i& 







^^ 



:^^r: 



\ 




^.^^^ -.^^.^jQ L.«iii!S^:si^' 



j^i^^V-* ^ '>^^a.^^'^'^.iLiL^i:^Gi&-ife^lS^&*^ij^'iSi^t£slIi!^^ 



jihCa^lfarii-^gy*— "' ■■"•■■ «£A.i«r'B 



DESSERTS 

Snet Pudding ChMi* Cak* Plum Pnddinc 




BANANA DAINTY ALMONDS WITH EGGS 



FamUy of Four PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS 

STRAWBERRY TRIFLE No. 1 

1 cup mashed strawberries Whites of 3 eggs 

1 cup powdered sugar Boiled custard 

Make and serve like Apple Snow. 

STRAWBERRY TRIFLE No. 2 

Stale cake Sugar to taste 

Vi cup milk 14 teaspoon vanilla 

1 egg 1 pint cream 

1 cup crushed strawberries 

Line the bottom of a glass dish with slices of stale cake, and 
pour over them a boiled custard made from the milk and 
egg, sweetening to taste and flavoring with vanilla. Whip the 
cream; mix with the strawberries and pile over the custard, deco- 
rating the top with a few whole berries. 

LEMON JELLY 

Vi box or 2 tablespoons gelatine 1 Vi cup boiling water 

1 cup cold water % cup sugar 

1 cup lemon juice 

Soak the gelatine in the cold water for five minutes; then pour 
on the boiling water; add the sugar and stir until dissolved and 
cooled. Then add the lemon juice; strain through sterilized 
cheesecloth and set aside in a cool place until stiff. 

WHIPPED JELLY 

Make lemon jelly in the usual way. See directions above. 
Place it in a bowl on the ice, and when it is cool, but before it 
begins to harden, beat with a Dover beater until white and frothy. 
Turn into a mold and set in a cool place to harden; serve with 
boiled custard or with preserved cherries or other fruit. 

COFFEE JELLY 



V4 


box 


or 1 tablespoon gelatine 


% 


cup boiling water 


1/4 


cup 


cold water 




V4 


cup sugar 








1 cup strong coffee 





Soak the gelatine in the cold water for two hours ; add the boil- 
ing water and sugar and stir until dissolved; then add the coffee; 

213 



PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS FamyolFJu" 

strain through cheesecloth into a wet mold and stand away until 
the following day. Serve with whipped cream. 

SPANISH CREAM 

1/2 box or 2 tablespoons gelatine 3 eggl 

1 quart milk Pinch of salt 

1/2 cup sugar 1 tablespoon vanilla 

Scald the milk with the gelatine and pour slowly on the yolks, 
well beaten with the sugar. Return to the fire ; stir and cook until 
thickened, but no longer; remove; add salt, flavoring and whites 
of eggs beaten stiff. Turn into wet molds; cool and serve with 
whipped or plain cream. 

BAVARIAN CREAM 

V2 box or 2 tablespoons gelatine 5 tablespoons powdered sugar 
1 pint milk 1 cup milk 

Yolks of 7 eggs 1 cup rich cream 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Dissolve the gelatine in the pint of milk and stir over the fire 
until thoroughly hot; then remove from the fire. Beat the yolks 
of the eggs until hght; add the sugar and more milk; stir well; add 
the hot milk and gelatine. When thoroughly mixed stir in the 
cream ; flavor and add more sugar if desired. Return to the fire; stir 
until the custard thickens a little; pour into a wet mold and when 
cool stand on the ice until serving time. 

BRIDGE-WHIST PUDDING 

1 pint milk Vi box or 1 tablespoon gelatine 

1 egg 14 cup water 

Sugar English walnuts 

1 teaspoon vanilla Candied cherries 

1 cup thick cream Lady fingers 

Make a custard of the milk and egg, sweetening to taste and 
flavoring with vanilla; to this add the cream, whipped, and the 
gelatine, dissolved in the water. Add chopped walnuts and 
cherries and turn into a mold lined with lady fingers. Stand 
aside for several hours before serving, 

214 



FLlgi"iyVf''Folr PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS 

JOYFUL PUDDING 

cup rice 1 tablespoon gelatine 

cup milk 1 tablespoon cold water 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon VMiilla 

1 cup thick cream 

Clean, the rice and cook ix, iu a little v/ater for five minutes; 
drain thorouglily; then cook with the milk for one hour, using a 
double boiler. Set the pan in cold water; add the sugar and the 
gelatine which has been previously soaked in the cold water. 
When thoroughly cold add the cream, whipped, and the vam'lla. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE 

14 cup cold water 1 pint whipped cream 

1 tablespoon gelatine 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Vi cup boiling water 6 maraschino cherries 

1/2 cup sugar 1 dozen lady fingers 

Soak the gelatine in the cold water; add the hot water; stir 
until dissolved; then add the sugar. As soon as this is cool but 
not cold whip it into the cream which has already been whipped; 
flavor with vanilla and chopped cherries and turn into a bowl 
lined with halves of lady fingers. 

WHIPS 

V^ box or 2 tablespoons gelatine % cup sugar 

1/2 cup cold water 1 teaspoon vanilla 

1 cup boiling water Whites of 2 eggs 

Candied Cherries 

Soak the gelatine in the cold water; pour over it the boiling 
water; add the sugar and the vanilla. When this begins to 
congeal add the unbeaten whites of eggs; beat until white and 
frothy; fill glasses and place a candied cherry on top of each. 
Serve with cream or with custard sauce. 

PRUNE WHIP 

1 pound prunes Whites of 2 eggs 

Sugar to taste 1 tablespoon pxdverized sugar 

Wash the prunes thorouglily and soak them over night. In the 
morning cook until tender in the water in which they have soaked ; 
remove the stones; chop fine and sweeten to taste. Beat the eggs; 

21s 



PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS^ FJmUy" qI Four 

add the powdered sugar, then the prunes. Beat thoroughly and 
stand on the ice to chill. Serve in individual glasses or paper cases 
with whipped cream or custard sauce. 

CHOCOLATE CHARLOTTE 

^- Whites of 5 eggs 1 cup sugai" 

2 ounces unsweetened chocolate V2 cup water 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Boil the sugar, water and chocolate until a thin syrup is formed; 
remove from the fire; fold in the beaten whites; add flavoring 
and bake until the eggs are set. Serve cold with custard sauce. 

REALENGO 

3/4 cup fresh fruit Sugar 

Whites of 3 eggs Whipped cream 

Press the fruit through a sieve; heat and sweeten; add this to 
the well-beaten whites, beating continually. Turn into a buttered 
mold and bake in a slow oven untU firrn. Remove; cover the top 
with whipped cream sweetened and flavored to taste; decorate 
with preserved cherries or citron. This is a favorite Mexican 
dessert. 

DELICATE PUDDING 

114 cups water 3 tablespoons cornstarch 

1/2 cup sugar 3 egg whites 

V2 saltspoon salt Juice and rind of 1 lemon 

Mix sugar, salt and water and bring to the boiling point. Mix 
the cornstarch in a little cold water and stir it into the boiling 
.syrup. Cook ten minutes; pour over the beaten egg whites; re- 
turn to the fire a minute to set the egg; add the lemon; turn into 
a wet mold and set on the ice until serving time. Serve with 
berries or sliced peaches. 

APPLE TAPIOCA 

% cup tapioca Sugar 

1 quart water 6 apples 

A little grated nutmeg 

Soak the tapioca and boil it in the water until clear, sweetening 
to taste. Pare and core the apples and place them in a baking 

216 



&1vVfVur PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS 



Family of Four 



dish. Fill the cores with sugar ; pour the tapioca around them and 
grate a little nutmeg over the top. Cover and bake until the apples 
are soft. Serve with cream. 

CHERRY TAPIOCA 

3/4 cup tapioca Sugar 

1 quart water 1 cup stoned cherries 

Soak the tapioca and boil it in the water until clear, sweetening 
to taste. Add the stoned cherries; cook for three minutes and set 
aside to cool. Serve with cream. 

Peaches or other fruit may be used instead of cherries. 

FIG DESSERT 

2 pounds white figs Sponge cake 

2 cups sugar Whipped cream 

Soak the figs over night. In the morning boil slowly until 
tender; add the sugar and boil until a thick syrup is formed. Line 
a dish with sponge cake or lady fingers ; pour the figs in the center 
and cover with whipped cream that has been sweetened and 
flavored. Decorate with candied cherries or angelica. 

APPLE MERINGUE 

4 large tart apples Grated rind of 1 lemon 

Va cup cold water White of 1 egg 

Sugar to taste 1 heaping tablespoon sugar 

Grated cocoanut 

Peel, core and slice the apples; stew them in the water until 
soft; press through a colander; sweeten to taste and flavor with 
lemon rind. Make a meringue of the egg and sugar; put the 
apples in a pudding dish and cover them with it, dusting all with 
grated nuts or cocoanut. Brown in the oven; serve with cream. 

BERRY CHARLOTTE 

1 pint berries 1 cup sugar 

1/2 cup water 1 pint bread 

Wash the berries; stew them in the water and sugar until the 
juice forms a syrup, mashing the fruit with a vegetable masher, and 
straining to remove the seeds. Put alternate layers of bread and 
cooked berries in a mold and when cool set on the ice until needed. 
Turn out and serve with cream or with cold boiled custard. 

217 



PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS ^I^SyftFo^ 

BREAD-AND-BUTTER PUDDING 

Bread and butter V4 teaspoon salt 

3 eggs 1 quart milk 

1/2 cup sugar X teaspoon flavoring 

Cut thin slices of bread; remove the crusts; butter both sides 
and Hue the bottom and sides of the pudding dish with them. 
Beat the eggs; add milk, sugar and flavoring; strain and pour 
over the bread. Sprinkle cinnamon or nutmeg over the top; let 
stand for twenty minutes; then bake in a slow oven. As soon as 
the custard begins to thicken on the sides of the dish it is done, and 
should be removed at once or it will whey. Serve with or without 
sauce. 

BREAD PUDDING 

Three-day old bread Allspice 

Butter Chopped raisins 

Sugar Milk 

Cinnamon Pinch of salt 
Molasses 

Cut the bread very thin; butter it; put a layer in the pudding 
dish; add a little sugar, a pinch of allspice and cinnamon, a grating 
of nutmeg and a handful of chopped raisins. Add further layers 
until the dish is full, finishing with a layer of bread. Heat the mUk; 
add a pinch of salt and enough molasses to color it perceptibly. 
Pour slowly over the mass, continuing until by gently pressing the 
bread the milk can be seen. Cover with a plate and leave in a 
moderately warm place over night. If it seems dry in the morning 
add more milk. Bake in a moderate oven three or four hours. 
Keep covered with the plate for two hours; then cover with paper. 



COTTAGE PUDDING 

1 tablespoon butter % cup milk 

1 cup sugar 11/2 cups flour 

1 egg 1 teaspoon baking powder 
Pinch of salt 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream; add the egg and best 
again. Mix and sift the dry ingredients and add them alternate'f 
with the milk. Turn into a buttered cake pan and bake about 
half an hour. Serve with vanilla or lemon sauce. 



i:4"mriyVt"Four PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS 

PEACH PUDDING 

3 eggs 3 tablespoons milk 

4 tablespoons sugar 3 tablespoons sifted flour 

Sugared peaches 

Fill a baking dish three-quarters full with peaches and cover 
them with sugar. Beat the yolks of the eggs; add the sugar and 
niiik; then the sifted flour and the whites of the eggs beaten very 
stiff. Pour the batter over the peaches; mix all thoroughly to- 
gether and bake about forty-five minutes. Serve hot with lemon 
sauce or cream and sugar. 

BAKED FLOUR PUDDING 

5 eggs Pinch of salt 
9 tablespoons flour 1 quart milk 

Seat the eggs separately and then together; stir in the sifted 
flour and the milk; strain and pour into a buttered pudding dish. 
Bake half an hour and serve immediately with lemon or vanilla 
sauce. 

BROWN BETTY 

3 medituu-sized apples i^ cup sugar 

1 cup stale bread crtunbs V2 teaspoon cinnamon 

i/i cup butter Juice and rind of Vi lemon 

Vi cup boiling water 

Pare, quarter, core and slice the apples. Melt the butter and 
pour it with the lemon juice over the crumbs. Mix the cinnamon, 
grated lemon rind and sugar together. Butter a baking dish; put 
in alternate layers of apple and bread crumbs, sprinkling the apples 
with the sugar mixtui'e, and making the last layer of crumbs. 
Pour the water on before adding the last layer of crumbs; cover 
and bake for thirty minutes or until the apples are soft; then un- 
cover and brown the crumbs. Serve -with cream or with soft 
custard or lemon sauce. 

QUEEN OF PUDDINGS 

1 quart milk 4 eggs 

1 pint bread crumbs Juice and rind of 1 lemon 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon butter 

Marmalade or preserves 

Soak the bread crumbs in the milk for half an hour; add the 
sugar, the beaten yolks, the lemon and the butter melted. 

219 



PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS Family of fou? 

Bake in a buttered pudding dish about three-quarters of an hour 
or until the pudding shrinks away from the sides of the dish; 
spread with marmalade or preserves; cover with a meringue made 
from the whites of eggs and four extra tablespoons of granulated 
sugar; brown quickly in the oven and set aside to cool. Serve 
with cream. 

RAISIN PUFF 

V2 cup butter 1 cup sweet milk 

1 cup sugar 2 cups flour 

2 eggs 2 teaspoons baking powder 

1 cup seeded raisins 

Cream the butter and sugar; add the well-beaten eggs. Sift 
together the flour and baking powder; add alternately with the 
milk. Then add the raisins, finely chopped. Put into small 
greased cups and steam one half hour. Serve with lemon or 
vanilla sauce. 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING 

1/2 pound raisins Vi orange peel, minced 

1/2 pound chopped suet V2 cup floixr 

3 cups bread cnimbs 1/2 pound currants 
V2 cup brov/n sugar Vi nutmeg, grated 
Grated rind of Vi lemon 2 eggs 

1/2 cup milk 

Mix the dry ingredients thoroughly. Beat the eggs; add them 
to the milk and pour over the dry mixture. Mix thoroughly; 
pack in greased tins, leaving space of one inch at the top of each. 
Tie on the lids and boil for ten hours. Keep in a cool place until 
needed. Serve with hard sauce. 



NEWMARKET PUDDING 

1 pint milk 1/2 nutmeg, grated 
Bread cnmibs 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

2 eggs Vi teaspoon cloves 
1 cup currants 1 tablespoon butter 
1 cup raisins V4 teaspoon salt 

Thicken the milk with the bread crumbs; add the beaten egg 
and other ingredients and bake for two hours. Serve with lemon 
or vanilla sauce. 

220 



^i"^Se''o'(°L°ur PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS 



Family of Four 

BROWN-BREAD PUDDING 

1/2 pound grated brown bread V2 cup sugar 

Vi pound currants V2 teaspoon grated nutmeg 

V2 pound chopped s'uet 2 eggs 

1 tablespoon cream 

Mix the Ingredients thoroughly and boil them in a buttered 
pudding mold or cloth for three hours. Serve with lemon sauce. 

PEACH PATTIES 

Hollow out little stale sponge cakes; brush with butter inside 
and out; place in each cavity two halves of peaches, pared and 
fitted together with a little orange marmalade or other preserve 
in the center. Sprinkle with sugar and chopped nuts; bake until 
the peaches are tender and serve with vanilla or fruit sauce. 

CANNED PEACH PUDDING 

1 cup dry bread cnunbs V2 cup sugar^ 

1 pint boiling milk 4 eggs 

2 tablespoons melted butter 2 cups canned peaches 

Soak the crimibs in the milk; add the butter, sugar, beaten eggs 
and mashed peaches. Pour into a buttered mold or tin can; 
cover closely and boil for two hours. Serve with lemon sauce. 

SUET PUDDING No. 1 

1/2 cup chopped suet Vz cup molasses 

% cup seeded raisins V2 cup milk 

lYi cups flour V2 teaspoon soda 

Mix the ingredients thoroughly, adding the soda dissolved in the 
milk last. Pour into a buttered mold or can; cover closely and 
boil three hours. Serve with hard or foamy sauce. 

SUET PUDDING No. 2 

2 cups stale bread crumbs V2 teaspoon cloves 

V2 cup chopped suet 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

Vi cup molasses Pinch of salt 

1 egg 1 cup milk 

1 cup raisins V2 teaspoon soda 

Mix the ingredients thoroughly, adding the soda dissolved in the 
milk last. Cover closely in a buttered mold or tin can and boil for 
two hours. Serve with hard or foamy sauce. 
15 221 



PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS Fi'i?,?v"'orF°o'u? 



Family of Four 



APPLE PUDDING 

2 cups flour 1 egg 

Vi teaspoon salt 1 scant cup milk 

1 teaspoon baking powder 4 apples 

1 tablespoon butter 2 tablespoons sugar 

1 teaspoon cinnamon 

Make a dough of the first six ingredients and spread one half 
inch thick in a buttered pan. Pare and core the apples ; cut them 
into eighths; spread them over the dough; sprinkle with sugar and 
cinnamon and bake the pudding about twenty -five minutes. Serve 
with lemon or vanilla sauce. 

Peach pudding may be made in the same way. 

SPONGE-CAKE PUDDING 

4 eggs Vi weight in flour 
Equal weight in sugar Grated rind of 1/2 lemon 

Beat the eggs separately until very light; stir the sugar into the 
yolks; add the flour and whites of the eggs alternately, then the 
lemon. Bake in a Turk's head, and serve with lemon sauce. 

BAKED INDIAN PUDDING No. 1 

1 pint hot milk V^ cup sugar 

V2 cup Indian meal 1/2 teaspoon ginger 

3 eggs 1 teaspoon cinnamon 
1 tablespoon flour Pinch of salt 

1 pint cold milk 

Bring one pint of milk to the boiling point; pour it gradually on 
the meal, stirring all the while to prevent lumps. When cool, add 
the beaten eggs and the other ingredients. Pour into a buttered 
pudding dish and bake an hour and a half. Serve with hot maple 
sugar or cream. 

BAKED INDIAN PUDDING No. 2 

5 cups milk Vi cup molasses 

1/2 teaspoon salt 

er 

Scald the milk; pour it slowly on the meal; cook in a double 
boiler for twenty minutes; add molasses, salt and ginger. Pour 
into a buttered pudding dish and bake in a slow oven for about 
two hours. Serve with cream. 

222 



g'a"mSfof°Fo^ur PUDDINGS AND DESSERT3 - 

BOILED INDIAN PUDDING 

1 quart milk 2 tablespoons chopped suet 

2 cups Indian meal 1/2 teaspoon salt 

5 tablespoons molasses 1 cup seeded raisins 

1 tablespoon flour 

Scald the milk and pour it over the meal; add the molasses, 
suet, salt, and the raisins washed and dredged with the flour. Put 
the pudding into a mold or bag and boil four hours. Serve with 
butter and maple syrup. 

The raisins may be omitted if desired. 

HUCKLEBERRY PUDDING 

1 egg 1 cup milk 

1 cup sugar 11/2 cups flour 

1 heaping tablespoon butter 1 teaspoon baking powder 
1 pint berries 

Beat the egg with the sugar and butter; add the milk and sifted 
flour and bakmg powder. When thoroughly mixed add the huckle- 
berries, previously washed and drained and dredged with flour. 
Pour into a buttered baking dish and bake in a moderate oven. 
Serve with lemon or fruit sauce. 

BERRY PUDDING 

1 quart bread crumbs 2 eggs 

1 pint milk 1 quart berries 

Pinch of salt 

Soak the broken bread crumbs in the milk; add the eggs well 
beaten, the salt and the berries, washed and drained. Steam in a 
buttered mold for three hours and serve with either hard sauce or 
fruit sauce. 

STEAMED FRUIT PUDDING 

2 cups flour 1 egg 

3 teaspoons baking powder 1 cup milk 
Pinch of salt 2 cups fruit 

Sift the flour and baking powder together; stir in the beaten egg 
and the milk gradually. Mix until smooth; add the fruit, washed, 
drained and well dredged with flour; stir carefully and empty into 
a greased tin can or pudding mold. Cover; stand in a pot of boil- 
ing water and boil continuously for three hours. Serve with sugar 
and cream or with hard sauce. 

223 



PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS FamTol fo^u? 

PEACH COBBLER 

1 quart peaches iVa cups flour 

1 cup water 1 teaspoon baking powder 

11/2 cups sugar Vi teaspoon salt 

1/3 cup milk 2 eggs 

Wash and pare the peaches; cut them in halves and cook with 
one cup of sugar and the water until the peaches are tender. 
Empty into a baking dish, reserving one half cup of syrup. Sift 
the flour, salt and baking powder; add theremaining sugar and eggs, 
and mix thoroughly with the milk and the remaining syrup. Pour 
the batter over the peaches and bake in a moderate oven for one 
half hour. Serve hot, with or without sauce. 



DATE SPONGE 

1 quart scalded milh- 
6 tablespoons cornstarch 
1 cup cold milk 

1 tablespoon butter 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 

1 teaspoon lemon extract 

To the scalded milk add the cornstarch, mixed smooth with the 
cold milk, and stir until smooth. Add butter, salt and sugar; 
cover and let cook over boiling water for twenty minutes. Then 
add the dates, stoned and chopped, and the flavoring. Cook for 
ten minutes longer, stirring all the time; pour into a glass dish 
and when cool decorate with whole stoned dates. 

SAVARIN 

1 cake compressed yeast 4 eggs 

Vi cup milk, scalded and cooled Vi cup butter, melted 

2 tablespoons sugar % cup almonds, shredded 
2 cups sifted flour 14 teaspoon salt 

Dissolve the yeast and sugar in lukewarm milk; add one half 
cup of flour. Beat well; cover and set aside in a warm place, free 
from draft, for fifteen minutes. Then add the rest of the flour, 
almonds, butter, eggs unbeaten, one at a time, and the salt. Beat 
ten minutes; pour into thickly buttered molds; cover and set 
aside to rise in a warm place, free from draft, until double in bulk 
— about forty-five minutes. Bake forty-five minutes in a moder- 
ate oven. Fill the center with whipped cream and serve with 
caramel sauce. 

224 



F!.mSy''of°Fo1.r PUDDIRGS AND DESSERTS 

WALNUT AND DATE DAINTY 

2 eggs 1 teaspoon baking powder 

1 cup sugar 1 cup walnut meats 

Pinch of salt 1 teaspoon lemon extract 

I tablespoon sifted flour 1 cup chopped dates 

Marshmallows to decorate 

Beat the eggs with the sugar and salt for five minutes; add the 
flour mixed with the baking powder, the nuts, flavoring and dates. 
Mix well and bake in individual dishes in a moderate oven until 
firm. Decorate with marshmallows and serve with cream or 
custard sauce. 

CREAM PUFFS 

1 cup hot water Pinch of salt 

Vi cup butter 1 cup flour 

3 eggs 

Boil the water, butter and salt; stir in the dry flour while it is 
boiling and stir quickly until the mass thickens. Stand aside to 
cool and when cool add the eggs, unbeaten, and stir them in thor- 
oughly. Drop the mixture by tablespoons on buttered tins and 
bake for about twenty minutes in a quick oven. When cool cut 
open with a sharp knife and fill with cream. 

To make eclairs spread the batter in long ovals and when done 
cover with plain or chocolate frosting. 

CREAM FOR PUFFS 

1 cup milk 1 egg 

1/2 cup sugar 3 tablespoons flour 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Put the milk on to boil in a double boiler. Beat the egg with 
the sugar; add the flour; stir all into the boiling milk. Stir over 
the fire until the mixture thickens; when cool add the vanilla. 



225 



PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS rilX'nl 'k™,.? 



Family of Four 



22S 



FLmliyVf''fo"ur PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS 



227 



PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS F^^rJfif °^f f°' " 



Family of Four 



228 



FROZEN DESSERTS 



I^T^OZEN DESSERTS 

FROZEN desiserts are refresHing and wholesome and require 
less time in preparation than the ordinary pudding. Success, 
moreover, is assured if a few very simple directions are followed. 
The essentials are to have the ice finely crushed and to use 
the right proportion of coarse rock salt. The finer the ice is 
crushed the quicker it melts, so for this reason it is important to 
have the ice broken into very small pieces. Enough should be 
broken for the entire freezing, as the process of tm^ning the crank 
should not be interrupted. 

The can should be completely surrounded and covered with a 
mixture of ice and salt, using three parts Ice to one of salt. Let 
it stand for a minute or two until the mixture begins to freeze to 
the inside of the can. Then turn the crank continuously until 
the mixture seems hard and heavy to move; then take out the 
dasher, scrape the frozen dessert from the sides of the can and 
pack it down closely. Put a cork in the opening of the cover, 
fill up the bucket with ice and salt, cover with burlap or piece 
of carpet and let stand an hour or more to ripen. 

Do not draw off any of the water until the freezing is completed, 
but add ice and salt as necessary. The melted water helps to 
freeze the mixture in the can and need not be drawn off at all if 
the dessert is to be served within an hour. 

The mixture should be prepared several hours before freezing 
and allowed to stand in the refrigerator until thoroughly chilled. 
Can and dasher should be scalded before using. 

To crush the ice use an ice-crusher or a wooden mallet. Put 
the ice in a bag of burlap or canvas and pound into fine pieces. 
When the dessert is served, drain the salt that is in the can and 
save to use again. 

231 



FROZEN DESSERTS F^^^froi 

VANILLA ICE CREAM No. 1 

IV2 cups milk 1 egg 

34 cup sugar 1 pint cream 

1 tablespoon flour 2 teaspoons vanilla 

Bring the milk to a boil. Beat the egg; add the flour and 
half the sugar; stir into the boiling milk and put over the fire. 
Cook until it thickens; add the cream and the rest of the sugar; 
set aside to cool; add the vanilla and freeze. 

Serve plain or with berries or with hot or cold chocolate sauce. 

VANILLA ICE CREAM No. 2 

3 pints thin cream IV2 cups sugar 

1 vanilla bean or 1 tablespoon extract 

Scald the cream with the sugar, using part milk if the cream is 
very rich. When cold, add the flavoring and freeze. 

To prepare the bean put it in a small kettle; cover with water 
and let simmer until the water is half gone, keeping the kettle 
covered all the time. Remove from the fire; scrape each piece 
of bean with a blunt knife, mixing the seeds and pulp with the 
water and using all for the flavoring. 

ECONOMICAL ICE CREAM 

1 quart milk 2 level tablespoons flout 
Ifcup sugar 1 saltspoon salt 

2 eggs 2 teaspoons vanilla 

Make a boiled custard, following the usual directions, and freeze. 
If desired, fresh fruits, thoroughly mashed and sweetened, may 
be added instead of vanilla. 



FLOWERING ICE CREAM 

Procure new flower-pots, about two and a half inches in diameter; 
wash thoroughly; fill with ice cream; cover with grated chocolate 
to represent soil, and stick a flower in each. 

BOMBE GLACE 

Line a chilled bombe mold with frozen strawberries or grape 
sherbet and fill the center with vanilla ice cream. Cover the top 

232 



Fam[iy''oho1.r FROZEN DESSERTS 

with more sherbet; press down the Hd over a sheet of paper, 
making it fit closely so that no salt can get in. Let stand in ice 
and salt for an hour or more. 



MERINGUES GLACEES 

See Meringues, chapter on "Cakes." 

FROZEN CUSTARD 

1 quart milk 1 cup sugar 

4 eggs 2 teaspoons vanilla 

Bring the milk to a boil; pour it slowly on the yolks of the eggs 
well beaten with the sugar; add the whites beaten to a stiff froth 
and boil until a thick custard is formed. When the steam has 
passed off, add the flavoring; cool and freeze. 

FROZEN COCOANUT CUSTARD 

V/z cups shredded cocoanut Yolks of S eggs 

1 quart hot milk 1 teaspoon vanilla 

1 cup sugar Lady fingers 

Chop the cocoanut very fine. Beat the eggs with the sugar; 
add the hot milk and stir over the fire until the mixture begins to 
thicken. Remove; add the flavoring and cool. Then add the 
cocoanut and mix thoroughly. Turn into a freezer and freeze. 
Serve in sherbet glasses lined with lady fingers. 

FROZEN PUDDING 

1 tablespoon cornstarch 1 cup seeded raisins 

Yolk of 1 egg Vi cup chopped nuts 

1 cup milk Pinch of salt 

IV2 cups sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 

1 cup preserved fruit 1 pint thick cream 

Mix the cornstarch with a little cold milk; add the beaten egg 
and pour over it the milk which has been scalded with the sugar. 
Cook thoroughly; remove from fire; add salt, vanilla, fruit and 
nuts; cool, add the cream whipped to a stiff froth and freeze. 

When frozen turn into a mold. At serving time lay in a platter 
and decorate with walnuts or candied cherries. 

233 



FROZEN DESSERTS FamT o1 Fo»r 

CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM 

V^ teaspoon cinnamon 2 ounces unsweetened chocolate 

2 tablespoons sugar 2 tablespoons water 

Custard 

Mix the ingredients; heat and stir until thoroughly smooth; add 
them to a custard made as for Economical Ice Cream and freeze. 

TUTTI-FRUTTI ICE CREAM 

1 quart cream Vz ounce chopped almonds 

y2 pound sugar V2 pound preserved or candied fruit 

Scald the cream and sugar; cool; add the nuts and fruits and 
freeze. 

BISQUE ICE CREAM 

3 pints thin cream V^ pound macaroons 
11/2 cups sugar 1 tablespoon vanilla 

Soak the macaroons in cream; mash and add to the cream in 
which the sugar has been dissolved; then add the vanilla and 
freeze. 

COFFEE ICE CREAM 

3 pints thin cream Yolks of 3 eggs 

11/2 cups sugar 1 cup strong coffee 

1 heaping tablespoon gelatine 

Beat the eggs hght; mix with the sugar; add one pint of the 
cream and make a custard. Dissolve the gelatine in the coffee and 
when cool add to the cream that remains; add the custard when 
cool; mix well and freeze. Half milk may be used if desired. 

CARAMEL ICE CREAM 

1 pint tnillr I egg 

Vi cup flour Pinch of salt 

11/2 cups sugar 1 teaspoonful vanilla 

1 pint cream 

Heat the milk in a double boiler, saving a half cup to mix the 
flour and half of the sugar. Add these and cook for twenty min- 
utes. Melt the second quantity of sugar vmtil it is brown and 
syrupy; add to the cooked custard together with the beaten egg. 
Beat imtil free from lumps; cool and add the flavoring and cream. 

234 



FL'SilyofFour FROZEN DESSERTS 

LEMON ICE CREAM 

3 pints thin cream Grated rind of 1 lemon 

1 pound sugar Juice of 2 lemons 

Dissolve the sugar in the cream, reserving about one fourth 
of it to mix with the lemon. The lemon must not be added until 
just before the cream is put in the freezer. 

PINEAPPLE ICE CREAM 

3 pints thin cream Vz cup sugar 

1 pint can grated pineapple 

Add the pineapple to the cream and sugar; let stand for one hour 
and freeze. 

STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM 

3 pints thin cream 2 cups sugar 

2 quarts berries 

Wash and hull the strawberries; sprinkle them with sugar and 
let them stand. Mash thoroughly; mix with the cream and freeze. 

PEACH ICE CREAM 

3 pints thin cream 2 cups sugar 

1 quart sliced peaches 

Cover the peaches with the sugar; let stand, mash and add to the 
cream and freeze. 

ORANGE ICE 

2 cups sugar Juice of 5 or 6 oranges 
1 quart water Juice of 2 lemons 

Grated rind of 2 oranges 

Boil the sugar and water for ten minutes; add the juice and rind 
and let stand until time to freeze. Strain and freeze. 

LEMON ICE 

3 pints water 3 cups sugar 
Jtuce of 6 lemons Whites of 2 eggs 

Let the sugar and water boil together for ten minutes; add the 
lemon juice; strain and cool. When partly frozen add the beaten 
whites of the eggs. 

235 



FROZEN DESSERTS FamTtlFou? 

PINEAPPLE ICE 

3 pints water 1 pineapple 

1 pound sugar Juice of 2 lemons 

Whites of 2 eggs 

Boil the sugar and water; add the grated pineapple and lemon; 
strain through a fine sieve and freeze. When partly frozen add 
the whites of eggs well beaten. 



CURRANT ICE 

2 cups sugar 3 cups currant juice 

1 pint water Whites of 2 eggs 

2 tablespoons powdered sugar 

Boil the sugar and water for fifteen minutes; when cool add the 
currant juice; strain and freeze. When nearly frozen add the 
whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth with the powdered sugar. 

FROZEN CHERRIES 

2 quarts pie cherries 2 pounds sugar 

1 quart water 

Wash and stone the cherries ; cover them with the sugar and let 
stand one hour. Add the water and freeze. 



FROZEN STRAWBERRIES 

1 quart strawberries Juice of 1 lemon 

1 poimd sugar 1 quart water 

Wash, drain and mash the berries; cover them with the lemon 
and sugar and let stand for one hour. Add the water; stir until 
the sugar is dissolved, and freeze. 



FROZEN RASPBEKEaES 

Follow the recipe for frozen strawberries. 

FROZEN PEACHES 

Follow the recipe for frozen strawberries, substituting a quart 
of sliced peaches, preferably yellow ones, for the berries. 

236 






FROZEN DESSERTS 

The upper dessert. Black-eyed Susan, is made by filling the glass with 

chocolate and vaniua ice cream and decorating with almonds and a chocolate 

cream. The Meringue Glacee is filled with caramel ice cream and decorated 

with English walnuts and nasturtiums. 



Fi?mS?'o?Jo''ur ' FROZEN DESSERTS 



Family of Four 



GRAPE SHERBET 



1 pint crape juice 1 cup sugar 

1 quart cold milk 

Dissolve the sugar in rich grape juice; add the milk; mix 
thoroughly and freeze. 

LEMON SHERBET 

1 quart milk iVz cup sugar 

Juice of 3 lemons 

Mix the juice and sugar; add the milk gradually, stirring con- 
stantly so that the mixture will not curdle. Then freeze. 



ORANGE SHERBET 

1 egg Juice and grated rind of 3 oranges 

1 quart milk Juice and grated rind of 1 lemon 

1 pint cteam 2V2 cups sugar 

Beat the egg lightly and add it to the milk and cream. Dissolve 
the sugar thoroughly with the lemon and orange; mix with the 
other ingredients and freeze. 

COMBINATION SHERBET 

Juice of 1 lemon V4 cup raspberry juice 

Juice of 1 orange Vi cup cherry juice 

V2 cup pineapple juice 2 cups sugar 

Vx cup currant juice 1 quart cluUed milk 

Whites of 2 eggs 

Dissolve the sugar thoroughly in the fruit juice; add the milk 
and freeze as usual. When nearly frozen add the beaten eggs. 

FRUIT GRANITE 

2 cups sugar 1 pint fruit 

1 quart water 1 pint fruit juice 

Boil the sugar and water for five minutes; scald the fruits 
in the syrup for one minute; skim them out and add to the syrup 
one pint of fruit juice. Strain and freeze when cold. Freeze 
soft; stir in the cooked fruit and serve in sherbet glasses, 

i« 237 



FROZEN DESSERTS Fa^a^o^Fou°^ 

ORANGE PEKOE SHERBET 

1 teaspoon gelatine Juice of 2 lemons 
Vi cup cold water Juice of 1 orange 

2 cups Orange Pekoe tea 1 cup white grape juice 

34 cup sugar 

Soak the gelatine in the cold water for five minutes; pour on 
it the hot tea. Add the other ingredients and when cold freeze. 
In serving garnish with candied orange peel. 

GINGER FRAPPE 

1/2 cup molasses 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

1 quart water ^ 1/2 teaspoon powdered ginger 

Dissolve the molasses in the water; add the lemon juice and 
ginger and freeze to a soft mush. 

CHOCOLATE FRAPPE 

Prepare chocolate as for drinking; then chill; freeze soft and 
serve with whipped cream. 

CAFfi FRAPPfi 

1 quart clear coffee 1 cup sugar 

1 cup thin cream 

Dissolve the sugar in the hot coffee, add the cream and freeze 
to a mush. 

GRAPE-FRUIT FRAPPE 

1 quart water 11/2 cups grape-fruit juice 

2 cups sugar 11/2 cups lemon jtjice 

Boil the sugar and water for fifteen minutes; cool thoroughly; 
add the fruit juice; strain and freeze to a mush. Serve in grape- 
fruit skins. 

CRANBERRY FRAPPfi 

1 teaspoon gelatine IVi cups sugar 

1 pint cold water Juice of 1 lemon 

1 pint cranberries 14 cup boiling water 

Soak the gelatine in half a cup of the cold water and cook the 
cranberries in the remainder. When soft press through a sieve; 
add sugar, lemon and the gelatine, dissolved in the boiling water. 
Freeze to a mush and serve with roast turkey. 

238 



FSSSyiVur FROZEN DESSERTS 

CAFE PARFAIT 

V2 cup cofifee 1/2 cup sugar 

1 cup cold water Yolks of 2 eggs 

1 pint thick cream 

Steep the coffee in the water and simmer until reduced to one 
half the amount; strain it over the yolks of the eggs, well mixed 
with the sugar; and cook in a double boiler until thick and smooth. 
Beat the cream to a stiff froth; add the coffee mixture when cool; 
pour into a mold or ice-cream can and let stand in ice and salt 
for three hours. Use equal parts of ice and salt and do not stir 
or turn the mixture. 

CHOCOLATE PARFAIT 

2 ounces unsweetened chocolate Yolks of 4 eggs 

V4 cup hot water 1 pint whipped cream 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Cook the first three ingredients until thick; pour over the beaten 
eggs and cook in a double boiler until the mixture coats the spoon. 
Cool thoroughly; add the whipped cream; flavor and freeze like 
Cafe Parfait. 

MOUSSE 

1 pint sugar Whites of 6 eggs 

1 pint water Flavoring 

Boil the sugar and water together for about five minutes or until 
it threads; then drop slowly cai the beaten whites of the eggs and 
continue beating imtil cold. Flavor to suit the taste with fruit 
or coffee and let it stand in a pail of chopped ice and rock salt 
for about five hours. Use equal parts of ice and salt. 

CHERRY MOUSSE 

1 pint thick cream 2 drops almond extract 

1 cup cherry juice Powdered sugar 

Mix the ingredients, sweetening to taste; chill and whip until 
stiff; then pack in ice and salt for three hours or more. 

Grape, raspberry and strawberry mousse may be made in the 
same way. Heat the fruit slightly before mashing and straining 
for the juice. 

239 



FROZEN DESSERTS Ffc^S^^f '/o'u? 

_ , ^ I II I I *i 

PINEAPPLE MOUSSE 

1 pint thick cream Juice of Vi lemon 

1 pint pineapple juice and pulp 1 cup powdered sugar 

Mix the ingredients thoroughly; chill and whip until stiff. Let 
stand in ice and salt for three hoiu-s or more. 

MAPLE MOUSSE 

•4 cup sultanas 1 pint thick cream 

y-i. cup maple syrup V2 tablespoon lemon juice 

Wash, drain and soak the raisins in the syrup for several hours; 
then strain the syrup into the cream. Whip to a stiff froth; add 
the raisins and lemon juice and turn into a freezer without the 
beaters. Surroimd by equal parts of salt and ice and let stand 
until firm. 



240 



KS5?'of°Four FROZEN DESSERTS 



241 



FROZEN DESSERTS Tl^Sy'^ivo^ 



242 



FamSrof Fo'ur FROZEN DESSERTS 



243 



planned for a 

FROZEN DESSERTS Family otFou, 



244 



SWEET SAUCES 



SWEET SAUCES 

SWEET SAUCES are useful for puddings, frozen desserts and 
entrees, and can frequently be used over stale cake to form 
a simple, economical and pleasing dessert. 

CREAMY SAUCE 

Vi cup butter 1 egg 

2 cups powdered sugar Vi cup thick creara 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Cream the butter and sugar; add the well-beaten egg and beat 
all thoroughly. When very light add the cream, a little at a 
time. Place the bowl in a vessel of boiling water and stir until 
the sauce is smooth and creamy, but no longer; add flavoring 
and serve. 

CARAMEL SAUCE No. 1 

1 cup granulated sugar 1 cup hot water 

Melt the sugar in an iron saucepan and stir until it is a light 
brown; add the boiUng water; cook for two minutes; pour into 
a bowl and set aside to cool. 

CARAMEL SAUCE No. 2 

1 cup granulated sugar 1 cup boiling water 

2 level tablespoons cornstarch % tablespoon vanilla 
4 tablespoons cold water 1 teaspoon com syrup 

Mix the sugar and cornstarch thoroughly: moisten with the 
cold water and heat slowly in a granite saucepan until of a delicate 
brown color. Add the boiling water; cook until clear; add flavor- 
ing and serve hot or cold. 

CUSTARD SAUCE 

Follow the recipe for Boiled Custard in the chapter on "Pud- 
dings and Desserts." 

247 



SWEET SAUCES Fa^y^fFou? 



EGG SAUCE 

1/2 tablespoon butter Whites of 2 eggs 

2 heaping tablespoons sugar Vs cup water 

Yolk of 1 egg 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream; add the eggs, beaten 
separately, and the water, boihng hot. Mix all thoroughly; boil 
over the fire for two or three minutes, stirring constantly, flavor 
and serve. 

FRUIT SAUCE 

1 cup fruit and juice 1 cup sugar 

14 cup water 2 level tablespoons cornstarch 

Whites of 2 eggs 

Any kind of fresh or canned fruit may be used, reducing the 
amount of sugar if the fruit is very sweet. Mix the sugar and 
cornstarch thoroughly; add the boiling water and the fruit mashed 
to a pulp. Cook until clear, stirring constantly. Serve hot or 
cold, adding the stiffly-beaten whites just before using. 

BROWN-SUGAR SAUCE 

1 tablespoon butter % cup boiling water 

1 tablespoon flour % cup brown sugar 

Few gratings of nutmeg 

Cook the flour in the butter, but do not let it brown; add the 
water gradually; boil and stir; add the sugar; cook until melted; 
add the nutmeg and serve hot. 

WHIPPED CREAM 

1 cup double cream 1 cup powdered sugar 

1 cup cream 2 teaspoons vanilla 

Cream should be placed on the ice for several hours before it is 
whipped. If not sufficiently cold it will form particles of butter. 
Place the bowl containing the cream in a larger bowl containing 
cracked ice, and with a cream churn, Dover beater or wire whip, 
beat imtil the entire mixture is inflated. If the cream is cold 
this will take but a few minutes. Flavor and sweeten and keep 
in a cool place. 

If the cream will not whip, try adding the white of an egg. 

If the cream is to be incorporated in a dessert, omit the sugar 
and flavoring. 

248 



Planned for a CtI7"I7irT CATTr>"irC 

Family of Four »5 " ±!/±!/ 1 OA U l^X!/0 

FOAMY SAUCE 

Whites of 2 eggs 1 cup scalded milk 

1 cup sugai Juice of 1 lemon 

Beat the whites of the eggs until foamy but not stiff; add the 
sugar, then the hot milk and lemon juice. Serve hot. 

RASPBERRY SAUCE 

1 cup sugar Vi cup water 

2 tablespoons preserved raspberries 

Boil the sugar and water to a syrup — about three minutes— and 
add the raspberries. 

LEMON SAUCE 

14 cup sugar 1 cup boiling water 

3 level teaspoons cornstarch 1/2 lemon 

1 tablespoon butter 

Mix the sugar and cornstarch thoroughly in a saucepan; stir in 
the boiling water; add the butter and juice and grated rind of the 
lemon. Boil and stir until the mixture is transparent. 

VANILLA SAUCE 

Follow the directions for lemon sauce, but omit the lemon and 
add a teaspoon of vanilla after the sauce is taken from the fire. 

HOT CHOCOLATE SAUCE No. 1 

1 cup boiling water 1 ounce unsweetened chocolate 

Pinch of salt 1/2 cup sugar 

Cook all the ingredients together slowly until they form a syrup 
slightly thicker than maple syrup. Add the vanilla just before 
serving. 

HOT CHOCOLATE SAUCE No. 2 

V^ cup sugar 2 tablespoons cocoa 

1 cup boiling water 1 tablespoon butter 

Stir the sugar in the boiling water until dissolved; then boil 
without stirring until a spoonful makes a soft ball when dropped 
in cold water. Add the cocoa moistened with hot water and the 
butter; boil and beat again. Serve hot over vanilla ice cream. 

249 



SWEET SAUCES tI^S^ ft 'fouJ 

HARD SAUCE No. 1 

Vi cup butter 1 teaspoon vanilla or 

1 cup powdered sugar 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

Grated nutmeg 

Cream the butter and add the sugar gradually, beating until 
very light. Then add the flavoring; beat well and shape it in a 
mound on a glass dish. Grate a little nutmeg over the top and 
set in a cool place until needed. 



HARD SAUCE No. 2 

1/2 cup butter Whites of 2 eg|S 

1 cup powdered sugar 1 teaspoon vamlla 

Grated nutmeg 

Beat the butter to a cream ; add the sugar gradually ; then the 
whites, one at a time, and beat until stiff and frothy. Add flavoring; 
beat again; then heap on a glass dish and sprinkle with grated 
nutmeg. 

CHOCOLATE SAUCE 

4 tablespoons sugar Pinch of salt 

1 level tablespoon flour 1 ounce imsweetened chocolate 

1 cup boiling water 2 level tablespoons butter 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Mix the sugar and flour thoroughly in a saucepan; pour on the 
boiling water; add chocolate, butter and salt; cook until the choco- 
late is thoroughly dissolved and the mixture thickened. Stir con- 
stantly to prevent sticking. When the steam has passed off, add 
the vanilla and set aside to cool. 

MOCK CREAM 

1 level teaspoon cornstarch 1 cup scalding tnillf 

1 level tablespoon sugar White of 1 egg 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Mix the cornstarch and sugar thoroughly ; on them slowly pour 
the scalding milk, stirring all the while. Cook and stir in a double 
boiler for ten minutes ; then set aside to cool. When ready to use 
stir in the vanilla and the white of the egg, stiflly beaten. Serve 
in place of whipped cream. 

250 



FJXtfFJu; SWEET SAUCES 

COCOA SAUCE 

2 level tablespoons butter 4 tablespoons sugar 

2 level tablespoons flour 1 cup boiling water 

4 level teaspoons cocoa 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Mix the dry ingredients in a saucepan; add boiling water and 
cook until the mixture thickens. Just before serving add the 
vanilla. 

CHERRY SAUCE FOR ICES 

Stem and stone the cherries; add a few broken kernels and 
enough sugar to keep them from discoloring. Let stand half an 
hour; remove the kernels; add more sugar and pour over any 
plain ice or ice cream. 

TABLE SYRUP 

2 cups brown sugar 2 oups water 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Dissolve the sugar in the water and cook until it thickens 
slightly. When cool, add vanilla or maple flavoring. The 
syrup is an excellent substitute for maple or other table syrup. 



SWEET SAUCES ^^^Sr^t'^^L'r 



Family of Four 



252 



BREAD, HOT CAKES, ETC. 



17 



BREAD-MAKING 

► READ holds an important place in the diet of every Uvjrmal 
person, and as home-made bread is infinitely more palatable 
and more nutritious than baker's bread it is worth while to spend 
some time and effort in its preparation. 

The three essentials in bread-making are flour, yeast and liquid. 
The yeast plant grows best in a temperature of 86° F. Bread 
should therefore be set to rise in a warm place, free from drafts. 
On the other hand too great heat must be avoided, as it will kill 
the yeast plant and make the bread sour. Two risings are suf- 
ficient if the ingredients have been well mixed. Dough permitted 
to rise until too light will be full of holes; bread baked before it 
is sufficiently light will be heavy. 

The use of the patent bread-mixers is to be recommended, both 
because they save a great deal of labor and because they make 
for cleaner and better bread. 

Bread must be well covered while rising to prevent a crust from 
forming on the top of the dough. Several thicknesses of clean 
towels are best for this purpose if a covered bread-raiser is not 
used. The bread in the pans must also be covered until it is put 
in the oven 

Kneading 

To knead ttie oread push the dough with the palm and draw it 
forward with the fingers. Use as little flour on the board as pos- 
sible as a soft dough makes better bread than a stiff dough. The 
more it is worked the finer will be the grain; but if a great deal of 
flour is worked in it will become hard. Knead until the dough is 
smooth and elastic to the touch: about twenty minutes is the 
usual time: about three minutes in the patent bread-mixer. 

255 



BREAD, HOT-CAKES, ETC. Fami?y of fou? 

Baking 

Bread should be baked in a hot oven, but not in one that is too 
hot, as it should continue rising for the first fifteen minutes and if 
a hard crust is too quickly formed the rising is rendered difficult. 
The crust may be buttered ten minutes before the bread is re- 
moved from the oven : this will make it softer and more palatable. 

The best pans for baking are made of Russia iron and are four 
inches deep, four and a half wide, and ten long. The bread is done 
when it leaves the sides of the pan. The usual time allowed is 
fifty minutes. 

Biscuits require less time, but more heat. They should be baked 
in fifteen or twenty minutes. 

YEAST 

Yeast is a mass of microscopic plants, the conditions of whose 
growth are moisture, warmth and sugar. Where the conditions 
are right these plants multiply very rapidly, giving off in the pro- 
cess alcohol and carbon-dioxide. When added to warm water and 
flour the plants feed upon the sugar in the flour and grow and 
spread throughout the dough. The carbon-dioxide causes bub- 
bles, making the dough "light." 

The strength of any yeast depends upon the care with which it 
is made and preserved. Ordinary liquid yeasts are apt to be full 
of bacteria which set up lactic or other fermentations and pro- 
duce an unpleasant flavor. Compressed yeast is on the whole 
much purer and much more uniform in strength. 

Compressed yeast is commercially made from grain in factories 
equipped with highly specialized and complicated machinery. The 
grains most used are corn, rye and barley malt. The grain is 
ground in a mill, mashed with water and the mash, cooked and al- 
lowed to cool, and finally fermented with yeast of a previous mak- 
ing. The result is the growth and multiplication of yeast cells. 

When the fermenting process has been carried to the proper 
stage, the yeast is separated from the fluid containing it, thoroughly 
washed with water, filtered, pressed, cut into cakes and wrapped. 
Every yeast cake contains millions of tiny yeast plants. 

This is the oldest and surest method of yeast-making. Many 
varieties of the method have been introduced, but it would take 
volumes to go into the details of the subject. Suffice it to say that 
the processes are extremely complicated and that the greatest 
amount of care and regulation is required in order to produce the 
compressed yeast which goes into our daily bread. 

256 



Famlir^'F^r BREAD, HOT-CAKES, ETC. 

WHITE BREAD 

(Quick Method) 

1 cake compressed yeast 2 tablespoons melted lard 

1 quart lukewarm water 3 quarts sifted flour 

2 level tablespoons sugar 1 level tablespoon salt 

Dissolve the yeast and sugar in lukewarm water; add lard (or 
butter) and half the flour. Beat until smooth; then add balance 
of the flour, or enough to make a dough that can be handled, and 
the salt. Knead until smooth and elastic. Place in greased bowl; 
cover and set aside in a moderately warm place, free from draft, 
until light — about two hours. Mold into loaves; place in well- 
greased bread pans, filling them half full. Cover and let rise one 
hour or until double in bulk. Bake forty to fifty minutes. 

WHITE BREAD 

(For Use Over Night) 

1/2 cake compressed yeast 1 tablespoon melted lard 

1 quart water 3 quarts sifted flour 

1 level tablespoon sugar 1 level tablespoon salt 

Dissolve the yeast and sugar in the water, which should be luke- 
warm in winter and cool in summer; add two tablespoons of lard 
(or butter) and half the flour. Beat until smooth; then add bal- 
ance of the flour, or enough to make moderately firm dough, and 
last, the salt. Knead until smooth and elastic. Place in well- 
greased bowl and cover; set aside to rise over night, or about nine 
hours. In the morning mold into loaves. Fill well-greased pans 
half full ; cover and let rise until light, or until loaves have doubled 
in bulk, which will be in about one and one half hours. Bake forty 
to fifty minutes. 

The half cake of yeast, which is left over, can be kept in good 
condition several days by rewrapping it in the tinfoil and keep- 
ing it in a cool, dry place. 

WHITE BREAD 

(Sponge Method) 

14 cake compressed yeast 4Vi pints sifted flour 

1 tablespoon sugar 1 teaspoon salt 

11/2 pints lukewarm water 1 level tablespoon lard or butter 

Dissolve the yeast and sugar in one pint of lukewarm water, 
and add to it one and one half pints of sifted flour, or sufficient 

257 



BREAD, HOT-CAKES, ETC. rfiT^f FoVr 

to made an ordinary sponge. Beat well; cover and set aside to 
rise for about one and one half hours in a warm place. When well 
risen add to it the half pint of lukewarm water, lard or butter, the 
remainder of the flour, or enough to make a moderately firm dough, 
and last, the salt. Knead thoroughly; place in greased bowl; 
cover and let rise for from one and one half to two hours. When 
light, mold into loaves and place in well-greased baking pans; 
cover and let rise again for about one hour. When light, bake 
forty to fifty minutes, reducing the heat after the first ten minutes. 

This recipe makes two large loaves. 

The whole process takes from five and one half to six hours, and 
the recipe, if followed closely, will produce excellent results. 

MILK BREAD 

1 cake compressed yeast 3 quarts sifted flour 

1 tablespoon sugar 1 tablespoon lard, melted 

1 quart milk, scalded and cooled Vi tablespoon salt 

Dissolve the yeast and sugar in the lukewarm liquid; add one 
and one half quarts of sifted flour; beat until smooth. Cover and 
set to rise in warm place, free from draft for about one and one 
half hours. When light, add lard (or butter), rest of flour, and 
salt. Knead until smooth and elastic ; place in well-greased bowl; 
cover; let rise again until double in bulk — about two hours. Mold 
into loaves; place in well-greased bread pans, filling them half full. 
Cover and let rise again until double in bulk — about one hour. 
Bake forty to fifty minutes. 

This makes three one-and-one-half poimd loaves. 

WHITE BREAD IN BREAD-MIXER 

1 quart boiled water or milk V2 tablespoon salt 

1 tablespoon lard 1 cake compressed yeast 

1 tablespoon sugar 3 quarts flour 

Put salt, sugar and lard in the bread-mixer; pour on boiling 
water or scalded milk and when lukewarm stir in the yeast cake 
dissolved in a little warm water. Add the flour; put on the lid; 
turn for three minutes and let rise over night. In the morning 
turn the handle a few times; lift the dough out on a molding 
board; divide into four parts and shape into loaves. Place in 
greased pans, having the pans only half full. Cover with a clean 
cloth; let rise to twice their bulk and bake for about fifty minutes 
in a moderate oven. 

258 



"mriyofVur BREAD, HOT-CAKES, ETC. 

BAKING-POWDER BREAD 

1 quart flour 2 heaping teaspoons baking powder 

1 teaspoon salt 1/2 boUed potato 

1 teaspoon sugar Milk or water (about 1 pint) 

Sift the dry ingredients thoroughly; rub in the boiled potato; 
add liquid to make a stiff batter or soft dough. Turn into a 
greased bread pan; smooth the top with a knife dipped in melted 
butter and bake in a moderate oven for about an hour. When 
done moisten the crust slightly with cold water and wrap in a 
clean cloth until cold. 

SALT-RISING BREAD 

1 cup milk V4 teaspoon sugar 

Little boiling water 1 tablespoon com meal 

Vi teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons flour 

Flour to make dough 

Into the milk pour enough boiling water to bring it to blood 
heat (about 90° F.). Do not have it too hot or the bread will not 
rise. Add the other ingredients; beat to the consistency of pan- 
cake batter and set in a warm place to ferment. If set in the early 
morning, it will rise at noon. Mix the same as other bread; put in 
pans at once; let stand till light and bake slowly. 

RICE BREAD 

1/2 cup cold rice Vi teaspoon salt 

1/2 cup white Indian meal 1 egg 

V2 tablespoon melted butter 

Vi cup milk 

Mix the dry ingredients thoroughly; add the egg beaten with 
the milk and melted butter. Pour into shallow greased tins and 
bake in a moderate oven. 

GRAHAM BREAD 

1 cake compressed yeast 2 level tablespoons lard 

4 level tablespoons brown sugar 4 cups graham flour 

1 cup milk, scalded and cooled 1 cup sifted white flour 

1 cup lukewarm water 1 teaspoon salt 

Dissolve the yeast and sugar (or molasses) in lukewarm liquid. 
Add lard (or butter), then flour, gradually, and last the salt, 

259 



BREAD, HOT-CAKES, ETC. Fami?°ofFou^ 

Knead thoroughly, being sure to keep the dough soft. Cover and 
set aside in a warm place to rise, for about two hours. When 
double in bulk, turn out on kneading board; mold into loaves; 
place in well-greased pans; cover and set to rise again for about 
one hour, or until light. Bake one hour, in a slower oven than for 
white bread. 

If wanted for over night, use one half cake of yeast and an extra 
teaspoon of salt. 

OATMEAL BREAD 

2 cups boiling water Vj, cup brown sugar 

2 cups rolled oats V2 cup lukewarm water 
1 cake compressed yeast 4 cups sifted flour 

1 teaspoon salt 

Pour two cups of boiling water over the oatmeal; cover and let 
stand until cool. Dissolve yeast and sugar in one haK cup of luke- 
warm water and add this to the oatmeal and water. Add one cup 
of flour, or enough to make an ordinary sponge; beat v/ell; cover 
and set aside in a moderately warm place to rise for one hour, or 
imtil light. Add enough flour to make a dough — about three cups — 
and the salt. Knead well; place in greased bowl; cover and let 
rise in a moderately warm place until double in bulk — about one 
and one hall hours. Mold into loaves; fill well-greased pans half 
full; cover and let rise again about one hour. Bake forty -five 
minutes in a hot oven. 

A half cup of chopped nuts and one tablespoon of lard or butter 
may be added if desired. 

WHOLE-WHEAT BREAD 

1 caJie compressed yeast IVi cups milk, scalded and cooled 

3 level tablespoons brown sugar 3 tablespoons melted lard 
11/2 cups lukewarm water 7V2 cups whcle-\7heat flour 

1 teaspoon salt 

Dissoh'e the yeast and sugar in lukewarm liquid; add lard or 
butter; then flour, gradually, as whole wheat flour absorbs moisture 
slowly, and last the salt. ICnead thoroughly, being sure to keep 
dough soft; place in well-greased bowl, cover and set aside in warm 
place, to rise for about two hours. When double in bulk, turn out 
on kneading board. Mold into loaves; place in v/ell-greased pans; 
cover and set to rise again for about one hour, or until light. Bake 
one hour, in a slower oven than for white bread. 

260 



FaXofVur B READ, HOT-CAKES, ETC. 

If wanted for over night, use one half cake of yeast and an extra 
teaspoon of salt. 

RYE BREAD 

(American) 

1 cake compressed yeast 5 cups rye flour 

1 cup milk, scalded and cooled 11/2 cups sifted white flour 

2 cups lukewarm water 1 tablespoon melted lard 

1 tablespoon salt 

Dissolve the yeast in lukewarm liquid; add two and a half cups 
of rye flour or enough to make a sponge. Beat well ; cover and set 
aside in a warm place, free from draft, to rise about two hours. 
When hght, add white flour, lard or butter, rest of rye flour to make 
a soft dough, and last the salt. Turn on a board and knead, or 
pound it five minutes. Place in greased bowl; cover and let rise 
until double in bulk — about two hours. Turn on board and shape 
into loaves ; place in floured shallow pans ; cover and let rise again 
until light — about one hour. Brush with white of egg and water, 
to glaze. With sharp knife cut lightly three strokes diagonally 
across top, and place in oven. Bake in slower oven than for white 
bread. Caraway seed may be used if desired. 

By adding one half cup of sour dough, left from previous baking, 
an acid flavor is obtained, which is considered by many a great 
improvement. This should be added to the sponge. 

GLUTEN BREAD 

1 cake compressed yeast 1 cup lukewarm water 

1 tablespoon sugar 1 level tablespoon lard or butter 

1 cup milk, scalded and cooled 3 cups gluten flour 
1 teaspoon salt 

Dissolve the yeast and sugar in lukewarm liquid; add lard or 
butter, then flour, graduaUy, and salt. Knead thoroughly imtil 
smooth and elastic; place in well-greased bowl; cover and set 
aside in a warm place, free from draft, to rise until hght, which 
should be in about two hours. Mold into loaves ; place in greased 
pans, filling them half full. Cover; let rise again, and when 
double in bulk, which should be in about one hour, bake in moder- 
ate oven forty-five minutes. 

This will make two one-pound loaves. For diet use all water 
and omit shortening and sugar. 

261 



BREAD. HOT-CAKES, ETC. Fi'X°^f^°oV, 

NUT BREAD No. 1 

1 cake compressed yeast 2 level tablespoons lard 

1 cup milk, scalded and cooled Vs cup sugar 

1 tablespoon sugar White of 1 egg 

3 cups sifted flour % cup chopped walnuts 

1/3 teaspoon salt 

Dissolve the yeast and one tablespoon of sugar in lukewarm 
milk; add one and one fourth cups of flour and beat thoroughly. 
Cover and set aside in warm place fifty minutes, or until light. 
Add sugar and lard (or butter), creamed, white of egg, beaten 
stiff, nuts, remainder of flour, or enough to make a dough, and the 
salt. Knead well; place in greased bowl; cover and set aside for 
about two and one half hours to rise, or until double in bulk. Mold 
into a loaf or small finger rolls, and fill well-greased pans half full. 
Protect from draft and let rise until light — about one hour. 

This recipe will make one medium-sized loaf, or one dozen rolls. 
The loaf should bake forty -five minutes; finger rolls, six to eight 
minutes. 

NUT BREAD No. 2 

1 egg 21/^ cups flour 

3/4 cup sugar 2 teaspoons baking powder 

1 cup milk 1 tablespoon butter 

1 teaspoon salt V4 pound walnuts 

Beat the egg with the sugar; add the sifted flour, baking powder 
and salt alternately with the milk; last add the butter, melted, and 
the walnuts. If black walnuts are used do not add the butter. 
Bake in a deep pan in a slow oven for about forty-five minutes. 

CORN BREAD 

11/2 cups com meal 1 heaping teaspoon baking powder 

1/2 cup floiu- 1/2 tablespoon butter 

1/2 tablespoon sugar II4 cups milk 

V2 teaspoon salt 1 egg 

Sift the dry ingredients together; add milk, beaten egg and 
butter. Pour into a shallow buttered tin and bake about half an 
hour. 

CORN BREAD WITH YEAST 

Follow the recipe for corn mufiins with yeast. Bake twenty 
minutes in well-greased, shallow pan, instead of muffin tins. 

,262 



g!.mriy''of"Fo''ur BREAD, HOT-CAKES, ETC . 

CANADA EGG BREAD 

1 cup com meal 1 tablespoon butter 

1 cup flour 1 cup milk 

1 teaspoon baking powder 3 eggs 

Mix the dry ingredients; add the butter, warmed but not melted, 
and the milk and beaten eggs. The batter will be stiff. Bake in 
greased tins; mark into squares; break and serve hot. 

RAISIN BREAD 

1 cake compressed yeast % cup sugar 

1 cup lukewarm water 4 level tablespoons lard 

1 cup milk, scalded and cooled ^4 cup raisins 

6 cups sifted flour 1 teaspoon salt 

Dissolve the yeast and one tablespoon of sugar in lukewarm 
liquid; add two cups of flour, the lard (or butter) and sugar, well 
creamed; and beat until smooth. Cover and set aside to rise in a 
warm place, free from draft, until light — about one and one half 
hours. Add raisins well-floured, the rest of the flour to make a 
soft dough, and last the salt. Knead lightly; place in well-greased 
bowl; cover and let rise again until double in bulk — about one and 
one half hours. Mold into loaves; fill well-greased pans half full; 
cover and let rise until light — about one hour. Glaze with egg 
diluted with water, and bake forty-five minutes, 

COCOA BREAD 

1 cake compressed yeast 1/2 cup sugar 

2 cups milk, scalded and cooled 1/2 cup cocoa 
1 tablespoon sugar Vi cup butter 
5Vi cups sifted flour 2 eggs 

y-i teaspoon salt 

Dissolve the yeast and one tablespoon of sugar in lukewarm 
milk; add three cups of flour and beat until smooth. Cover and 
set aside to rise in warm place until light — about one and one half 
hours; then add butter and sugar creamed, eggs well beaten, 
cocoa, remainder of flour, or enough to make soft dough, and salt. 
Knead lightly; place in greased bowl; cover and set aside in warm 
place, free from draft, until double in bulk — about two hours. 
Mold into loaves; place in well-greased bread pans, filling them 
half full. Cover and let rise again until light — about one hour. 
Bake forty to forty-five minutes. 

263 



BREAD, HOT-CAKES, ETC. Faml?yofFour 

The recipe makes two loaves. Nuts or fruit may be added if 
desired. The bread may be used for making dehcious sandwiches. 

Buns may be made from the same dough and decorated with 
chocolate frosting. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD No. 1 

2 cups rye meal Vs cup molasses 

1 cup com meal 1 teaspoon soda 

1 teaspoon salt 2 cups sour milk 

Dissolve the soda in the milk. Mix and sift the dry ingredients; 
add the sour milk and molasses; pour into a buttered mold and 
steam three hours. Brown in the oven twenty minutes. 



BOSTON BROV/N BREAD No. 2 

1 cup corn meal 1/2 cup sugar 

2 cups graham flour Vi cup molasses 
1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon soda 

2 cups milk 

Mix and cook the same as Brown Bread No. 1. 



SCOTCH SHORT BREAD 

1 cup butter 2 cups flour 

1/2 cup powdered sugar 

Cream the butter; add the flour and sugar; knead all together 
thoroughly with the hands; roll out about one inch in thickness 
and cut in oblong cakes. Bake about half an hour, laying the 
bread on brown paper in an imbuttered pan. 



COARSE LOAF 

1/2 teaspoon baking powder 
1 cup nuts or raisins 
1 pint sour milk 
2 cups graham flour 2 teaspoons soda 

11/2 cups white flour Pinch of salt 

Mix all the ingredients together, adding the soda dissolved in 
the sour milk last. Pour into a greased baking pan and bake in a 
slow oven about one hour. 

264 



gS''o?'L''ur BREAD, HOT-CAKES, ETC. 

CINNAMON BUN 

2 tablespoons butter Milk to make soft dough 

4 tablespoons sugar Butter 

2 eggs Sugar 

1 pint flour Cinnamon 

2 teaspoons baking powder Currants 

Syrup molasses 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream; add the eggs; then the 
baking powder and flour which have been sifted together, alter- 
nately with the milk. Have the dough as soft as it is possible to 
roll out. Place it on a pie board well dusted with flour; roll out 
about one fourth of an inch in thickness; spread thickly with 
sugar, cinnamon, currants and syrup molasses; then carefully roll 
the dough into one long roll ; cut into buns about one inch high and 
place them rather closely in a greased pan. Bake in a moderate 
oven. 

CINNAMON CAKE 

1 cake compressed yeast 1/2 cup light brown sugar 

1/2 cup milk, scalded and cooled 2 level tablespoons butter 

1 tablespoon sugar 1 egg 

2 cups sifted flour Vi teaspoon salt 

Dissolve the yeast and one tablespoon of sugar in the lukewarm 
milk. Add three fourths cup of flour, to make a sponge. Beat 
well; cover and let rise forty -five minutes in a moderately warm 
place. Add butter and sugar creamed, egg well beaten, about one 
and one fourth cups of flour, or sufficient to make a soft dough, and 
the salt. Knead lightly; place in greased bowl; cover and let rise 
in a warm place about two hours, or until double in bulk. Roll 
one half inch thick; place in well-greased pan and let rise until 
light. Cut across top with sharp knife; brush with egg; sprinkle 
liberally with sugar and cinnamon. Bake twenty minutes in a 
moderately hot oven. 

DOUGHNUTS 

1 cake compressed yeast Vi cup sugar 

114 cups milk, scalded and cooled 3 level tablespoons butter 
1 tablespoon sugar 1/2 teaspoon mace 

41/2 cups sifted flour 2 eggs 

14 teaspoon salt 

Dissolve the yeast and one tablespoon of sugar in lukewarm 
liquid; add half of the flour and beat well. Cover and set aside 
to rise in a warm place for about one hour, or until bubbles burst 

265 



BREAD, HOT -CAKES, ETC. FamToV/Jur 

on top. Add to this the liutter and sugar creamed; mace, eggs 
well beaten, the remainder of the flour to make a soft dough, and 
last the salt. Knead lightly; place in well-greased bowl; cover 
and allow to rise again in warm place for about one and a half hours. 
When light, turn on floured board ; roll to about one fourth inch in 
thickness. Cut with small doughnut cutter; cover and let rise 
again, on floured board or paper, in warm place until light — about 
forty-five minutes. Drop into deep, hot fat with side uppermost 
which has been next to board. When a film of smoke begins to 
rise from fat, it will be found a good temperature to cook dough- 
nuts. 

Doughnuts made by this method do not absorb the fat, for the 
reason that they rise before and not after they are put into the 
grease. 

DUTCH CAKE 

1 pound bread dough 1 egg 

1/2 pound sugar 1/2 pound seeded raisins 

1/2 pound butter Cinnamon and nutmeg 

Mix the sugar, butter and beaten egg into bread dough; when 
thoroughly incorporated flavor with cinnamon and nutmeg; and 
add the fruit. Put into a greased pan and let rise for an hour or 
more; then bake slowly. 

BOHEMIAN HOUSKA 

1 cake compressed yeast 1/3 cup melted butter 
V4 cup lukewarm water 1/2 cup citron, cut fine 

2 cups milk, scalded and cooled 1/2 cup raisins 

1/2 cup sugar 1/2 cup chopped almonds 

1 egg 1/2 teaspoon salt 

71/2 cups sifted flour 

Dissolve the yeast and one tablespoon of sugar in lukewarm 
liquid; add egg well beaten, balance of sugar and butter creamed, 
and two cups of flour, or enough to make a thin batter. Beat until 
smooth; cover and let rise until light, about one hour. Add 
almonds, citron and raisins, well floured, the rest of the flour, or 
enough to make a soft dough, and last the salt. Knead well; 
place in greased bowl; co^'er and set aside in a warm place, free 
from draft, to rise until double in bulk, about one and a half hours. 
Divide into three parts; make three braids; place in well-greased, 
shallow pan, one on top of the other. Bake in moderate oven 
forty-five minutes. While hot ice with plain frosting. 

266 



FLmlly''of"Fo°.r BREAD, HOT-CAKES, ETC. 

CURRANT TEA RING 

2 cakes compressed yeast Vz cup sugar 

1 cup milk, scalded and cooled 7 cups sifted flour 

1 cup luli:ewarm water 3 eggs 

1 tablespoon sugar i^ teaspoon salt 

6 level tablespoons lard or butter Vi teaspoon mace 
Brown sugar, currants and cinnamon 

Dissolve the yeast and one tablespoon of sugar in the lukewarm 
liquid. Add three cups of flour and beat until smooth. Add lard 
or butter and sugar, thoroughly creamed, and eggs beaten until 
light, the remainder of the flour gradually, keeping dough soft, 
and last, the salt and mace. Turn on board ; knead lightly ; place 
in greased bowl; cover and set aside in a warm place to rise for 
about two hours or until the dough has doubled in bulk. Roll out 
in an oblong piece, one fourth inch thick; brush with melted but- 
ter; sprinkle with brown sugar, currants and cinnamon. Roll up 
lengthwise ana place in a circle on a large, shallow, greased pan or 
baking sheet. With scissors cut three fourth inch slices, almost 
through. Turn each slice partly on its side, pointing away from 
center. This should give the effect of a many-pointed star, and 
show the different layers with the filling. Cover and let rise one 
hour, or until light, and bake twenty -five minutes. Just before 
putting in the oven, glaze with egg, diluted with milk. Ice while 
hot with Dlain frosting. 



APPLE CAKE 

(Apf el Kucheli) 

I'Vi cakes compressed yeast 1/2 cup sugar 

1 cup milk, scalded and cooled 2 eggs 

1 tablespoon sugar iVz cups sifted flour, 

1/4 cup butter V4 teaspoon salt 
5 apples 

Dissolve the yeast and one tablespoon of sugar in lukewarm 
milk; add one and a half cups of flour to make a sponge, and beat 
until smooth. Cover and set aside in a warm place until light — 
about three quarters of an hour. Have sugar and butter well- 
creamed; add it to sponge. Then add eggs well -beaten, rest of 
flour, or enough to make a soft dough, and salt. Knead lightly. 
Place in well-greased bowl. Cover and set aside to rise — about 
two hours. Roll half an inch thick; place in two well-greased, 
shallow pans; brush with butter and sprinkle with sugar. Cut 

267 



BREAD, HOT-CAKES, ETC. ^ FaX°^fFou? 

apples in eighths and press into the dough, sharp edge downward; 
sprinkle with cinnamon; cover and let rise about one half hour. 
Bake twenty minutes. Keep covered with pan first ten minutes, 
in order that the apples may be thoroughly cooked. 

GERMAN COFFEE CAKE 

(Bund Kuchen) 

(V2 cakes compressed yeast 1 cup sugar 

1 cup milk, scalded and cooled V2 cup butter 

1 tablespoon sugar 3 eggs 

3 cups sifted flour 11/2 cups mixed fruit 

14 teaspoon salt 

Dissolve the yeast and one tablespoon of sugar in the lukewarm 
milk; add one and a half cups of flour and beat well. Cover and 
set aside, in a warm place to rise for one hour or until light. Add 
to this the butter and sugar creamed, the fruit — citron, raisins and 
currants in equal parts — which has been floured, the balance of the 
flour or enough to make a good cake batter, the salt, and eggs well 
beaten. Beat for ten minutes; pour into well-buttered molds, 
filling them about half full; cover and let rise until molds are 
nearly full ; then bake in a moderate oven. If made into two cakes, 
ihsj cliould bake forty-five minutes; one large cake should bake 
Cffif; Lour. 

BRIOCHE 

1 cake compressed yeast 1 cup butter 

1/2 cup milk, scalded and cooled 4 cups sifted flour 

2 tablespoons sugar 8 eggs 

1 teaspoon salt 

Dissolve the yeast and one tablespoon of sugar in the lukewarm 
milk; add one cup of flour to make sponge. Beat -nel) ; cover and 
set to rise in warm place, free from draft, until light — about three 
quarters of an hour. To the rest of the flour add one tablespoon 
of sugar, butter softened, four eggs and salt. Beat all in well; add 
sponge and beat again thoroughly; add the other four eggs, un- 
beaten, one at a time, beating thoroughly. Cover and let rise until 
light — about four hours, and beat again. Chill in the refrigerator 
over night. In the morning, shape by rolling under hand into long 
strips about twenty-seven inches long and three fourtlis inch thick, 
bringing ends together, and twist like a rope. Form into rings; 

268 






FRESH FROM THE OVEN 

Coffee Loaf Cake English Scones 



Sally Lunns 



Fa^uy of°F<fur BREAD, HOT-CAKES, ETC. 

place on well-buttered pans to rise. When double in size, glaze 
with white of egg diluted with water. Bake in a moderate oven 
fifteen minutes. Ice while hot, with plain frosting. Spread with 
almonds. 

MORAVIAN CAKE 

1 pint bread dough 1% cups sugar 

% cup butter 3 eggs 

Sugar and cinnamon 

Beat the butter into the bread dough; add the sugar and eggs 
and beat thoroughly. Pour into buttered pans; let rise for one 
hour; sprinkle thickly with sugar and cinnamon and bake in a 
quick oven. 

BREAD RUSK 

1 pint bread dough Butter size of egg 

34 cup sugar Grated nutmeg 

Spread the bread dough open; work the other ingredients into 
it; roll out; cut in cubes; put them in buttered pans and set in a 
warm place until very light. Bake in a quick oven. 

CHILDREN'S RUSK 

1 cake compressed yeast V2 cup butter 

2 cups milk, scalded and cooled 1 cup sugar 
1 tablespoou sugar 1 egg 

6 cups sifted flour 1/2 teaspoon salt 

1 cup currants 

Dissolve the yeast and one tablespoon of sugar in the lukev/arm 
milk; add to it half the flour, to make an ordinary sponge. Beat 
well; cover and set aside in a warm place to rise, for about an hour. 
When light, add to it the butter and sugar creamed, egg well 
beaten, the currants, which have previously been washed £ind 
floured, and the remainder of the flom-, or sufficient to make a soft 
dough; last add the salt. Knead lightly; place in greasedbowl; 
cover and set aside in a warm place, free from draft, to rise for 
about two or two and a half hours. When well risen, turn out on 
a kneading board and mold into rolls. Place in well-greased pans; 
cover and let rise again for about one hour, or until double in bulk. 
Brush with egg diluted with milk. Bake in a hot oven for about 
fifteen or twenty minutes. Upon removing from oven sprinkle 
with powdered sugar. 

IS 269 



BREAD, HOT-CAKES. ETC. FaTiiyTf rJu'r 

BUNS 

1 cake compressed yeast '^ cup sugar 

1 cup milk, scalded and cooled V4 cup butter 

1 tablespoon sugar 3 cups sifted flour 

1/2 teaspoon salt 

Dissolve the yeast and one tablespoon of sugar in the lukewarm 
milk; add one and one half cups of flour. Beat until smooth; then 
add butter and sugar creamed, the rest of the flour and salt. 
Knead lightly, keeping dough soft; cover and set aside in a warm 
place, free from draft, to rise matil double in bulk — about one and 
a half hours. Mold into small, round buns; place in well-greased 
pans, one inch apart. Cover; set aside to rise until light — about 
one hour. Brush with egg, diluted with water; bake twenty 
minutes. Just before removing from the oven, brush with sugar 
moistened with a little water. 

SV/EET FRENCH BUNS 

1 cake compressed yeast 3 level tablespoons butter 

1 cup milk, scalded and cooled 1 egg 

14 cup lukewarm water Vi teaspoon lemon extract 

1 tablespoon sugar 4 cups sifted flour 
14 cup sugar 1/2 teaspoon salt 

Dissolve the yeast and one tablespoon of sugar in the lukewarm 
liquid. Add enough flour to make an ordinary sponge — about 
one and one half cups. Beat until perfectly smooth; cover and 
set aside in a warm place to rise for fifty minutes, or until light. 
Add sugar and butter creamed, egg beaten, lemon extract and 
about two and one half cups of flour, or enough to make a soft 
dough. Add salt with the last of the flour. Knead until smooth 
and elastic; place in greased bowl; cover and set aside in a warm 
place to rise until double in bulk — about one hour. Turn out on 
board and shape as clover-leaf rolls, or any fancy twist. Let rise 
until light, about one hour. Bake in hot oven fifteen minutes. 

ENGLISH BATH BUNS 

2 cakes compressed yeast 4 cups sifted flour 
1/2 cup milk, scalded and cooled Vi teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon sugar 5 tablespoons sugar 

Vi cup butter, melted 4 eggs 

1 cup almonds, chopped 

Dissolve the yeast and one tablespoon of sugar in the lukewarm 
milk. Add butter, eggs unbeaten, flour gradually, and the salt, 

;!70 



F!:;"ufcf°K^r BREAD, HOT-CAKES, ETC. 

beating thoroughly. This mixture should be thick, but not stiff 
enough to handle. Cover and let rise in warm place one and one 
half hours, or until light. Sprinkle balance of sugar and almonds 
over top; mix very lightly and drop into well-greased mufEn pans. 
Cover and let rise until light, which should be in about one half 
hour. Bake fifteen to twenty minutes in a moderately hot oven. 
These buns should be rough in appearance. 

HOT CROSS BUNS 

1 cake compressed yeast % cup butter 
1 cup millc, scalded and cooled 

1 tablespoon sugar 3% cups sifted flour 
1/3 cup sugar 1 egg 

V4 teaspoon salt 

Dissolve the yeast and one tablespoon of sugar in the lukewarm 
milk. Add one and one half cups of the flour, to make a sponge. 
Beat until smooth; cover and let rise until light, in a warm place, 
free from draft — about one hour. Add butter and sugar creamed, 
egg well beaten, raisins or currants, which have been floured, rest 
of flour, or enough to make a soft dough, and salt. Turn on board; 
knead lightly; place in greased bowl. Cover and set aside in a 
warm place, until double in bulk, which should be in about two 
hours. Shape with hand into medium-sized round buns; place in 
well-greased pans about two inches apart. Cover and let rise 
again — about one hour, or until light. Glaze with egg diluted 
with water; with sharp knife cut a cross on top of each; bake 
twenty minutes. Just before removing from oven, brush with 
sugar moistened with water. While hot, fill cross with plain frost- 
ing. 

OVEN SCONES 

2 cakes compressed yeast 1 cup raisins 
2 cups milk, scalded and cooled V2 cup citron 
1 tablespoon sugar 1 egg 

1 cup sugar CVi cups sifted flour 

1/3 cup of lard or butter 1 level teaspoon salt 

Dissolve the yeast and one tablespoon of sugar in the lukewarm 
milk; add three cups of flour and beat well. Cover and let rise in 
a warm place, free from draft, until light — about one hour. Then 
add butter and sugar cfeamed, the egg well beaten, fruit well 
floured, balance of flour, to make a soft dough, and the salt. Turn 

271 



BREAD, HOT-CAKES, ETC. wI^SyfiFour 

on board; knead lightly; form into twelve round cakes; cover 
and allow them to rise fifteen minutes. Then roll one fourth inch 
thick; cut across each way nearly through, maldng an impression 
of four cakes. Place in well-greased pans; let rise about one hour^ 
or until double in size. Then brush with egg diluted with water. 
Bake fifteen minutes in a moderate oven. 

ENGLISH SCONES 

Yi pound flour 
i -' .' 3 ounces sugar 1 

' ' 2 ounces lard 

J , : ,; 2 teaspoons baking powder 

' Beat the sugar and lard to a cream; add the egg, then the milk 
and flour sifted with the Ijaking powder. Have the currants well 
washed and drained and mix them in before all the flour is added. 
Make a soft dough; roll out and cut like tea biscuits. Bake in a 
quick oven. 

TEA BISCUIT 

2 cups flour Vz teaspoon salt 

2 teaspoons baking powder 1 tabicspoon lard 

Milk or water to make soft dough 

Mix the dry ingredients in a bowl; rub in the lard with the tips 
of the fingers; add milk to make a dough just stiff enough to roll 
out. Roll one half inch thick; cut with a roimd cutter and bake in 
greased tins. 

TEA ROLLS 

1 cake compressed yeast 1 tablespoon sugar 

Va cup milk, scalded and cooled 3 cups sifted flour 

1/2 cup lukewarm water 2 tablespoons melted lard 

Yz teaspoon salt 

Dissolve the yeast and sugar in the lukewarm liquid. Add lard 
(or butter) and half of the flour; beat until smooth; add rest of 
flour, or enough to make a moderately firm dough, and the salt. 
Knead thoroughly; roll out and shape as Parker-House rolls. 
Place in well-greased, shallow baking pans; cover and set to rise 
in a warm place, free from draft, for about two hours. When light, 
bake in a hot oven ten minutes. 

272 



FL^igli^^ono^ur BREAD, HOT-CAKES, ETC> 

LUNCH ROLLS 

1 cake compressed yeast 4 cups sifted flour 

V/4 cups milk, scalded and cooled 1 egg 

1 tablespoon sugar 2 level tablespoons lard 
1 teaspoon salt 

Dissolve the yeast and sugar in the lukewarm milk; add lard 
(or butter) and two cups of flour. Beat thoroughly; then add 
egg well beaten, balance of flour gradually, and salt. When all of 
the flour is added, or enough to make a moderately soft dough, 
turn on board and knead lightly and thoroughly, using as little 
flour ia the kneading as possible, keeping dough soft. Place in 
well-greased bowl. Cover and set aside in a warm place, free from 
draft, to rise about two hours. When light, form into small bis- 
cuits, the size of a walnut. Place one inch apart, in shallow pans, 
well greased. Let rise until double in bulk — about half an hour. 
Brush with egg and milk, and bake ten minutes in hot oven. 

PARKER-HOUSE ROLLS 

1 cake compressed yeast 4 tablespoons melted lard or butter 

1 pint milk, scalded and cooled 3 pints sifted flour 

2 level tablespoons sugar 1 level teaspoon salt 

Dissolve the yeast and sugar in the lukewarm milk; add lard 
or butter and half the flour. Beat until perfectly smooth; cover 
and let rise in a warm place one hour, or until light. Then add 
remainder of flour, or enough to make a dough, and the salt. 
Knead well; place in greased bowl; cover and let rise in a warm 
place for about one and a half hours, or until double in bulk. Roll 
out one fourth inch thick; brush over lightly with butter; cut 
with two-inch biscuit-cutter; crease through center heavily with 
dull edge of knife, and fold over in pocket-book shape. Place in 
well-greased, shallow pans, one inch apart. Cover and let rise 
until light — about three quarters of an hour. Bake ten minutes 
in hot oven. 

DINNER ROLLS 

1 cake compressed yeast White of 1 egg 

1 cup milk, scalded and cooled 3 cups sifted flour 
1 level tablespoon sugar 2 level tablespoons lard or butter 

1/2 teaspoon salt 

Dissolve the yeast and sugar in the lukewarm milk; add white 
of egg, beaten until stiff, the flour gradually, the lard or butter, and 

273 



BREAD, HOT-CAKES, ETC. ' fJ'X" qI fo^u? 

last, the salt, keeping the dough soft. Knead lightly, using as 
little flour in kneading as possible. Place in a well-greased bowl; 
cover and set to rise in a warm place, free from draft, until double 
in bulk — about two hours. Mold into rolls the size of walnuts; 
place in well-greased pans; protect from draft, and let rise one 
half hour, or until light. Glaze with white of egg, diluted with 
water. Bake ten minutes in a hot oven. 

GRAHAM MUFFINS No. 1 

1 cake compressed yeast 1 egg 

2 cups milk, scalded and cooled 1 cup sifted white flour 
4 tablespoons molasses 11/2 cups graham flour 
4 tablespoons melted lard 1 teaspoon salt 

34 cup chopped nuts 

Dissolve the yeast and sugar (or molasses) in the lukewarm milk; 
add lard (or butter) and egg well beaten, then the flour gradually, 
salt and nuts, beating all the while. Beat until perfectly smooth; 
cover and set to rise in warm place, free from draft, until light — 
about one and a half hours. Have mufBn pans well greased and 
fill about two-thirds full. Cover and let rise to top of pans — about 
half an hour, and bake twenty minutes in hot oven. 

GRAHAM MUFFINS No. 2 

Follow the recipe for Egg Muffins, using half graham and half 
white flour. 

ENGLISH MUFFINS 

1 cake compressed yeast 2 level tablespoons sugar 

1 cup mUk, scalded and cooled 4 tablespoons melted lard 

1 cup lukewarm water 6 cups sifted flour 

1 teaspoon salt 

Dissolve the yeast and sugar in the lukewarm liquid; add lard 
(or butter), and three cups of flour. Beat until smooth; add rest 
of flour, or enough to make a soft dough, and last, the salt. Knead 
until smooth and elastic ; place in well-greased bowl ; cover and set 
aside in a warm place to rise. When double in bulk, which should 
be in about two hours, form with hand in twelve large, round bis- 
cuits. Cover and set aside for about one half hour. Then, with 
rolling pin, roll to about one fourth inch in thickness, keeping them 
round. Have ungreased griddle hot and bake ten minutes. Brown 
on both sides. As they brown, move to cooler part of stove, where 

274 



FamriyVf°Fo1.r BREAD, HOT-CAKES, ETC. 

they will bake more slowly, keeping them warm in the oven until 
all are baked. They can be reheated in this way or split and 
toasted on the griddle. These muffins are delicious served hot 
with plenty of butter. 

OATMEAL MUFFINS 

1 cake compressed yeast 1 cup hot milk 
Vi cup lukewarm water 1 cup rolled oats 

3 tablespoons sugar 1/2 cup whole wheat flour 

2 tablespoons butter 1/2 cup sifted white flour 

1 teaspoon salt 

Boil the oats and butter in a cup of milk one minute. Let stand 
until lukewarm. Dissolve the yeast and sugar in one fourth cup 
of lukewarm water, and combine the two mixtures. Add flour and 
salt and beat well. The batter should be thick enough to drop 
heavily from the spoon. Cover and let rise until light, about one 
hour, in a moderately warm place. Fill well-greased muffin pans 
two thirds full; let rise about forty minutes; bake twenty -five 
minutes in a moderately hot oven. 

SALLY LUNN 

1 cake compressed yeast 4 tablespoons melted butter 

1 tablespoon sugar 2 eggs 

2 cups milk, scalded and cooled 4 cups sifted flour 

1 teaspoon salt 

Dissolve the yeast and one tablespoon of sugar in the lukewarm 
milk. Add butter, then flour gradually, eggs well beaten, and last, 
the salt. Beat until perfectly smooth; pour into well-greased pans; 
cover and let rise in a warm place, free from draft, until double in 
bulk — about one and one half hours. Sprinkle granulated sugar 
over the top and bake twenty minutes in a hot oven. Serve hot; 
break apart with fork. 

This recipe will fill two medium-sized cake pans. 

WHEAT MUFFINS 

1 cake compressed yeast 2 eggs 

1 cup milk, scalded and cooled 2 tablespoons melted lard 
Vi cup Itikewarm water 2 cups sifted flour 

2 level tablespoons sugar '72 teaspoon salt 

Dissolve the yeast and sugar in the lukewarm liquid; add the 
iohJ (or butter), eggs beaten until light, and flour to make a 

/ 275 



BREAD, HOT-CAKES, ETC. FinXof rJur 

moderately stiff batter; then add the salt and beat until smooth. 
Cover and set aside in a warm place for about one hour. When 
lisen, fill well-greased muffin tins half full; cover and let rise 
again for about half an hour. Bake twenty minutes in a hot 
oven, and serve at once. 

CORN MUFFINS WITH YEAST 

1 cake compressed yeast 2 eggs, well beaten 

2 cups milk, scalded and cooled 21/2 cups com meal 

2 level tablespoons brown sugar 1 cup sifted white flour 

4 level tablespoons lard or butter 1 teaspoon salt 

Dissolve the yeast and sugar in the lukewarm milk. Add lard 
or butter, cornmeal, flour, eggs and salt. Beat well. Fill well- 
greased muffin pans two-thirds full. Set to rise in a warm place, 
free from draft, until light — about one and one half hours. Bake 
in hot oven twenty minutes. 

If prepared over night use only one fourth cake of yeast, and 
an extra half teaspoon of salt. 

CORN MUFFINS No. 1 

1 cup white flour 1/2 teaspoon soda 

V2 cup com meal 1 egg 

1 tablespoon sugar 1 cup sour milk 

1/2 teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon melted butter 

Mix the dry ingredients; add the egg, beaten into the milk, and 
the melted butter. Beat thoroughly and bake in well-greased tins. 

CORN MUFFINS No. 2 

Follow the recipe for Egg Muffins using half corn meal and half 
white flour. 

RICE MUFFINS 

1 cup flour 1 tablespoon butter 

1/4 teaspoon salt 1/2 cup boiled rice 

1 teaspoon baking powder 1/2 cup milk 

1 egg 

Sift the dry ingredients ; rub in the butter lightly ; stir in the rice, 
then the beaten egg and milk. Pour into greased gem pans, filling 
them only half full, and bake in a moderate oven about twenty 
minutes. 

276 



"1gi°iy''of°Fo''ur BREAD, HOT-CAKES, ETC. 

EGG MUFFINS 

2 cups flour y^ teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon butter 1 teaspoon baking powder 
Vi teaspoon sugar 1 egg 

1 scant cup milk 

Rub the butter in the flour; add the dry ingredients and mix 
•well. Beat the egg; put it in a tin measuring cup and fill up the 
cup with milk. Stir this into the flour and when thoroughly mixed, 
fill buttered gem pans and bake in a quick oven until golden brown. 
The batter is very stiff and the top of the mufBns when baked 
should be rough. 

PERFECT CREAM WAFERS 

2 cups flour Vi cup sugar 
1 teaspoon baking powder Pinch of salt 

Cream 

Mix the dry ingredients thoroughly and moisten them with 
cream. Add just enough cream to make the dough soft enough to 
roll. If too much is added the wafers will not be crisp. Roll the 
dough very thin; cut into squares and bake until lightly browned. 

GRAHAM WAFERS 

Follow the recipe for cream wafers, using half graham flour and 
half white. 

SOUR-CREAM BISCUIT 

1 cup sour cream 2V2 cups sifted flour 
Iteaspoon baking soda 1 teaspoon salt 

With a knife stir the cream into the sifted flour, enough to make 
a very soft dough. Roll thin; cut into rounds and bake in a hot 
oven. 

DROP BISCUIT 

2 cups flour V2 teaspoon salt 

3 teaspoons baking powder 1 tablespoon lard 

Milk to make stiff batter 

Mix the dry ingredients; rub in the lard; add milk to make a 
mixture that may be dropped from a spoon without spreading. 
Drop on a buttered pan half an inch apart and bake in a hot oven 
eight or ten minutes. 

277 



BREAD, HOT-CAKES, ETC. FfXc'tFJu^ 

SOUR-MILK BISCUIT 

2 cups flour 1/2 teaspoon salt 

1/2 teaspoon soda 1 tablespoon lard 

Sour milk 

Mix and sift the dry ingredients; rub in the lard; stir in with a 
knife enough sour milk to make a very soft dough. Roll one half 
inch thick; cut in small rounds and bake in a quick oven about 
twenty minutes. 

SCOTCH OAT CAKE 

1 cup oat flour 14 teaspoon salt 

Flour to make stiff dough 

The oatmeal must be finely ground and the dough very stiff. 
Roll out on a floured board to one eighth of an inch in thickness 
and bake the sheet in a very slow oven until dry and hard but not 
brown. Break into irregular pieces. 

POP-OVERS 

2 eggs IV^ cups flour 

1 '/2 cups milk 14 teaspoon salt 

Beat the eggs together; stir in the milk; add gradually the 
sifted flour and salt; beat for five minutes and strain through a 
sieve. Butter gem pans and set them in a quick oven to heat. 
When hot fill each pan about one third full of batter; return to the 
oven and bake about twenty-five minutes. Serve at once. 

GLUTEN GEMS 

2 eggs 114 cups gluten flour 

1 cup milk 2 teaspoons baking powder 

Beat the yolks of the eggs; add the milk; then the flour and 
baking powder; beat well; stir in the whites and bake in hot but- 
tered gem pans about twenty minutes. 

GRAHAM PUFFS 

2 cups graham flour 1/2 teaspoon salt 
1 teaspoon sugar 2 cups milk 

3 eggs 

Mix the dry ingredients; add the milk, then the eggs beaten' 
until very light; beat for three minutes; turn into hot buttered 
gem pans and bake in a moderate oven for about half an hour. 

278 



FamUy o(°Four BREAD, HOT-CAKES, ETC, 

ZWIEBACK 

1 cake compressed yeast 2 eggs 

Vi cup milk, scalded and cooled Vi cup melted lard 

2 tablespoons sugar 2Yi cups sifted flour 

1/2 teaspoon salt 

Dissolve the yeast and sugar in the lukewarm milk. Add three 
fourths of a cup of flour and beat thoroughly. Cover and set aside 
in a moderately warm place to rise for fifty minutes. Add lard (or 
butter), eggs well beaten, enough flour to make a dough — about 
two cups — and salt. Knead; shape into two rolls one and one half 
inches thick, and fifteen inches long. Protect from draft and let 
rise until light, which should be in about one and one half hours. 
Bake twelve minutes in a hot oven. When cool cut diagonally 
into half-inch slices. Place on baking sheet and brown in a 
moderate oven. 

WAFFLES WITH YEAST 

1 cake compressed yeast 1 tablespoon melted lard or butter 

2 cups milk, scalded and cooled 2 eggs 

1 tablespoon sugar 21/2 cups sifted flour 

1 teaspoon salt 

Dissolve the yeast and sugar in the lukewarm liquid; add lard 
or butter, flour, salt, and eggs well beaten. Beat thoroughly until 
batter is smooth; cover and set aside to rise in a warm place, free 
from draft, for about one hour. When light, stir weU. Have 
waffle iron hot and well greased; fill the cool side. Brown on 
one side; turn the iron and brown on the other side. If the batter 
is too thick, the waffle will be tough. 

If wanted for over night, use one fourth cake of yeast and an 
extra half teaspoon of salt. Cover and keep in a cool place. 

ONE-EGG WAFFLES 

11/2 cups flour 1% cups milk 

1 teaspoon baking powder 1 egg 

14 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons melted butter 

Mix the dry ingredients; add the milk slowly; then the egg, 
well beaten, and the melted butter. Beat the batter for several 
minutes; drop by spoonfuls on a hot buttered waffle iron, putting 
one tablespoonful in eadi section of the iron. Bake and turn, 
browning both sides carefully; remove from the iron; pile one on 
V)p the other and serve at once. 

279 



BREAD, HOT-CAKES, ETC. Fi:!?,^^!?^ 

THREE-EGG WAFFLES 

2 cups flour 1 1/4 cups milk 

1 teaspoon baking powder 1 tablespoon melted butter 

1/2 teaspoon salt 3 eggs 

Mix and sift the dry ingredients; add the yolks of the eggs 
beaten and stirred into the milk; then add the melted butter and 
fold in the whites of the eggs. Bake and serve as directed under 
One-Egg Waffles. 

BREAD STICKS 

Take rusk or bread dough — rusk is better — and when light cut 
pieces from the side and roll under the hands to the length of the 
pan and the thickness of a lead pencil. Let rise until light; bake 
in a hot oven and when nearly done glaze with beaten egg. 

GRIDDLE CAKES 

All batter cakes are better baked on an ungreased griddle, as 
they rise and keep their shape, and do not follow the grease. , You 
will be rid of the disagreeable smoke and the odor of burning fat. 
Your griddle need not necessarily be of soapstone. If you have 
an old griddle and clean it thoroughly, being sure to remove all 
burned fat or batter, it can be used in this way. 

OATMEAL GRIDDLE CAKES 

1 cake compressed yeast 11/2 cups corn meal 

2 cups milk, scalded and cooled 1 cup sifted flour 
2 level tablespoons brown sugar 2 eggs 

1/2 teaspoon salt 

Dissolve the yeast and sugar (or molasses) in the lukewarm 
milk; add flour, eggs well beaten, corn meal, salt, and beat until 
smooth. Cover and set aside to rise in a warm place for about 
one hour, or until light. Stir well and bake on a hot griddle. 

If prepared over night, use one fourth cake of yeast and an extra 
half teaspoon of salt. Cover and keep in a cool place. 

WHEAT GRIDDLE CAKES 

1 cake compressed yeast 2 tablespoons melted lard 

1 cup milk, scalded and cooled 2 cups sifted flour 

1 cup lukewarm water 1/2 teaspoon salt 

2 level tablespoons brown sugar 2 eggs 

Dissolve the yeast and sugar in the lukewarm liquid. Add lard 
(or butter), then flour gradually, the eggs well beaten, and salt. 

280 



FLmi'iy''o^°L°u, BREAD, HOT-CAKES, ETC. 

Beat thoroughly until batter is smooth; cover and set aside for 
about one hour, in a warm place free from draft, to rise. When 
light, stir well and bake on a hot griddle. 

If prepared over night, use one fourth cake of yeast and an extra 
half teaspoon of salt. Cover and keep in a cool place. 

GRIDDLE CAKES No. 1 

2 cups flour 2 eggs 

1/2 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons melted butter 

2 teaspoons baking powder Milk (about 11/2 cups) 

Mix and sift the dry ingredients; add the milk and beaten eggs; 
beat thoroughly; add melted butter and drop by spoonfuls on a 
hot griddle. Serve with butter and maple syrup. 

GRIDDLE CAKES No. 2 

2 cups flour 2 eggs 

1/2 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons melted butter 

1 teaspoon soda Sour milk (about 2 cups) 

Mix and bake as directed for Griddle Cakes No. 1. One egg 
may be used instead of two, but more beating will be necessary. 

GRIDDLE CAKES No. 3 

1 cake compressed yeast 4 level tablespoons brown sugar 

1 cup lukewarm water 4 tablespoons melted lard 

IV^ cups milk, scalded and cooled 1 teaspoon salt 
21/2 cups sifted flour 

Dissolve the yeast and sugar in the lukewarm liquid; add lard 
(or butter), flour gradually, and salt. Beat thoroughly; cover and 
set aside to rise for about one hour, in a warm place, free from draft. 
When light, stir well and bake on hot griddle. 

If wanted for over night, use one fourth cake of yeast and an 
extra half teaspoon of salt. Cover and keep in a cool place. 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES No. 1 

1 cake compressed yeast 2 level tablespoons brown sugar 

2 cups lukewarm water 2 cups buckwheat flour 
1 cup milk, scalded and cooled I cup sifted white floiu- 

V/z teaspoons salt 

Dissolve the yeast and sugar in the lukewarm liquid; add buck- 
wheat and white flour gradually, and salt. Beat until smooth; 

281 



BREAD, HOT-CAKES, ETC. ram^^t fou? 

cover and set aside in a warm place, free from draft, to rise — 
about one hour. When light, stir well and bake on a hot griddle. 
If wanted for over night, use only one fourth cake of yeast and 
au extra half teaspoon of salt. Cover and keep in a cool place. 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES No. 2 

1 pint buttermilk Pinch of salt 

Buckwheat flour 1 tablespoon molasses 

Vi cake yeast Vi teaspoon baking soda 

Into the buttermilk stir enough flour to make a soft laatter; add 
the yeast cake dissolved in a little warm water and the salt and 
beat thoroughly. Let rise over night and in the morning stir in 
the molasses and baking soda. Save a cup of the batter to be 
used instead of yeast for the next baking. 

RICE CAKES 

1 cup flour 2 eggs 

2 teaspoons baking powder 1 tablespoon melted butter 



Milk 



1 cup boiled rice 



Mix and bake as directed for Griddle Cakes No. 1, beating the 
rice into the milk before adding. 

CORN GRIDDLE CAKES 

14 cup corn meal 1 cup flour 

3/4 cup boiling water 2 teaspoons baking powder 

Milk (about Vi cup) 1 egg 

1/2 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons molasses 

Add meal to boiling water and boil five minutes; when luke- 
warm stir in the milk; add dry ingredients, sifted, the beaten egg 
and molasses. Bake on a hot griddle and serve with butter and 
maple sugar. 

CRUMB GRIDDLE CAKES 

Y4 cup bread crumbs 1 egg 

1 cup milk 1/2 teaspoon salt 

V2 tablespoon butter i/^ cup floiu' 

1 teaspoon baking powder 

Cook the crumbs, milk and butter for fifteen minutes; rub 
through a sieve; cool and add the yolk of the egg and the dry 
ingredients sifted. Fold in the white and bake on e hot griddle. 

282 



Family of°Four BREAD, HOT-CAKES, ETC. 

MOLLETE 

1/2 cup cold winter squash V2 cup com meal 

1/2 cup milk yi cup flour 

1 egg V4 teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon baking powder 

Beat the squash with the milk and egg; add the other ingredi- 
ents; mix all together into a smooth batter and bake in small 
cakes on a hot griddle. In Mexico these are served hot, with a 
little sugar sprinkled on each. 

DROP DUMPLINGS 

2 cups flour 2 teaspoons baking powder 
Vz teaspoon salt 1 scant cup milk 

Mix the flour, salt and baking powder; stir in the milk and drop 
the batter by spoonfuls into the boiling stew. Cover and cook 
for ten minutes. 

If preferred, they may be dropped on a buttered plate and 
cooked in a steamer over boiling water. In either case they 
should be served immediately. 

ROLLED DUMPLINGS 

y-2, cup suet 1/2 teaspoon salt 

1 cup flour 14 cup cold water 

Chop the suet very fine; mix it with the flour and salt; then 
with a knife stir in the water, ice-cold. When thoroughly mixed 
roll the dough into tiny dumplings about the size of a marble; 
drop them into the soup; simmer for fifteen minutes and serve. 



283 



BREAD, HOT-CAKES, ETC^ E^£^? 



FamSfofFour BREAD, HOT-CAKES, ETC. 



19 



285 



BREAD, HOT-CAKES, ETC. FamX°o'fFou? 



2S6 



CAKES 



CAKES 

CAKE baking, or rather the baking of good cakes, is an art 
perhaps, but not necessarily a diflBcult art. The essentials 
are to have good materials and to follow carefully the directions 
for mixing and baking. 

Mixing 

Accuracy in the proportion of ingredients is absolutely neces- 
sary. To insure it, instead of depending on ordinary cups and 
spoons, no two of which hold exactly the same quantity, it is 
well to have utensils of regulation size — a measuring cup divided 
into quarters and thirds, and holding half a pint, a few tea- and 
tablespoons, a case knife, and several mixing spoons. 

For the sake of convenience cakes may be divided into two 
main classes — sponge cakes, or cake without butter, and butter 
cakes. In the main, one method of mixing for cakes of one class 
is followed. 

To mix sponge cake: Separate the yolks of the eggs from the 
whites, and beat the yolks with an egg-beater until they are thick 
and lemon-colored. Then add the sugar a little at a time, beating 
constantly. Now beat the whites until they are stiff and dry; 
add them and the sifted dry ingredients as directed in the recipe. 
Do this with as few motions as possible, as otherwise the air bub- 
bles enclosed in the mixture will be broken and all previous work 
imdone. 

To mix butter cake: Use an earthen bowl for mixing such cakes, 
and a wooden mixing spoon with slits in it, to lighten the labor 
of creaming and stirring. Measure the dry ingredients; mix 
with the flour and sift. Next break the eggs, dropping each 
into a saucer first in case the whole egg is to be used, so that if 
a stale egg happens to be among them it can be detected easily 
and in time. If the whites and yolks are to be used separately, 
divide them as you break the eggs, and beat both well before using 
— the yolks until light and the whites until stiflF and dry. 

289 



/^ A VT7 C Planned for a 

\^iUSJiO Family of Four 

Then measure the butter, and if it is too hard to work well, 
let it stand in a warm place until it has become softened, but not 
melted. If there is not time for this, warm the bowl by pouring 
hot water into it, letting it stand a few minutes, then emptying 
and wiping it dry. Do not let it get too warm, however, or the 
butter will become oily instead of creamy. 

If fruit is to be used, wash and dry it the day before. Dust 
with flour just before using, and mix with the hand till each 
piece is powdered, so that all will mix evenly with the dough 
instead of sinking to the bottom. 

Be sure to have all the ingredients ready before beginning to 
mix. Put the butter into the bowl; work it until soft and creamy, 
and gradually add the sugar, beating constantly. Next add the 
eggs, or the yolks, whichever the recipe specifies, and then the 
liquid. Work in the flour, a little at a time; or, if desired, add 
small quantities of flour and liquid alternately until the entire 
amount of each has been used. 



Baking 

Grease the pans carefully with butter or suet; dust lightly 
with flour; shake out the flour and pour in the batter. Then 
lift the pans into the oven. 

The essential point, of course, is that the oven have just the 
proper degree of heat for the kind of cake to be baked. If it is 
too hot at first, the cake will form a crust on the outside before 
rising to its full height, and in continuing to rise it will lift the 
top and break it, thus producing an unsightly loaf. If it is too 
cool, the cake will either fall, or rise and run over the sides of the 
pan, making the loaf not only imsightly, but of a coarse texture. 

Cake should be watched while baking. If the oven door is 
opened and closed carefully there is no danger of causing the 
cake to fall. If the cake browns too quickly, cover it with paper 
and reduce the heat. Small cakes require a hotter oven than 
loaf cake. 

All cakes except pound cake shrink away from the edges of the 
pan when done, and in most cases no further test is necessary. 
Cakes may, however, be tested by sticking a fresh broom straw 
into the center; if it comes out clean the cake is done. 

If the cake cracks open on top too much flour has been used. 
If of coarse texture the cake has not been well beaten or the oven 
has been too slow. 

290 



Planned for a P ATTirC: 

Family of Four ^^iiJiJiO 

BAKING POWDER 

8 ounces bicarbonate of soda 6 ounces tartaric acid 

1 package high-grade cornstarch 

Put all the ingredients together and sift them thoroughly five 
times. Keep closely covered in glass jars or tin boxes. 

ANGEL CAKE 

Whites of 11 eggs IVz cups granulated sugar 

1 teaspoon cream of tartar 1 cup sifted flour 

1 teaspoon flavoring 

Beat the eggs until light; add the cream of tartar and beat 
to a stiff froth; then add the sugar gradually. Fold in the flour 
after it has been sifted five times; add the vanilla and pour the 
mixture into an unbuttered angel-cake pan. Bake in a moderate 
oven forty-five or fifty minutes; turn the pan upside down and 
let it stand until the cake falls out. 



SPONGE CAKE No. 1 

6 large eggs 1/2 lemon 

11 ounces granidated sugar Pinch of baking powder 

3% otmces sifted flour Pinch of salt 

Beat the yolks and the whites separately until very light. 
Into the yolks beat the sugar; then add the lemon, salt, baking 
powder and half the flour. Fold in half of the whites; add the 
remainder of the flour, then the remainder of the whites. Pour 
into a greased pan and bake in a slow oven for forty -five minutes 
or one hour. 

SPONGE CAKE No. 2 

5 eggs Juice and grated rind of 1/2 lemon 

1 cup sugar Pinch of salt 

1 cup flour 

Beat the yolks until light; add the sugar gradually, then the 
lemon. Beat the whites until stiff and dry; cut them into the 
first mixture; then sift and fold in the flour, but do not stir the 
mixture. 

291 



CAKES 



Fianned for a 
Family of Four 



SPONGE CAKE No. 3 



4 eggs 1 cup flour 

1 cup sugai 1 teaspoon baking powder 

6 tablespoons water 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Beat the yolks of the eggs and the sugar thoroughly; add the 
water; then the sifted flour and the whites alternately, and the 
baking powder and vanilla last. Pour into a greased Turk's head 
and bake in a quick oven about fifteen minutes. 

CREAM SPONGE 

For cream sponge follow the recipe for Sponge Cake No. 3; 
bake in layers and fill with a custard made from the following: 

1 cup milk 1/2 cup sugar 
11/2 tablespoons cornstarch Yolk of 2 eggs 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Cook fike any other custard in a double boiler. 

JELLY ROLL 

3 eggs Vz cup cold water 

iVi cups sugar Juice of Vi lemon 

2 cups flour Vi teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon baking powder 

Beat the yolks with the sugar; add the liquid and sifted dry 
ingredients alternately; fold in the beaten whites and pour into 
shallow buttered tins, using only enough batter to cover the 
bottom of the pan. Bake about twelve minutes in a moderate 
oven; turn out on a paper well dusted with powdered sugar; 
cut off a thin strip from the sides and ends of the cake; spread 
with jelly and quickly roll. After the cake has been rolled wrap 
paper around it so that it will keep its shape. 

POTATO-FLOUR CAKE 

Yolks of 4 eggs 1 heaping teaspoon baking powder 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 

V2 cup potato floiu' Whites of 4 eggs 

Beat the yolks of the eggs very light with the sugar; add the 
potato flour and baking powder; flavor; fold in the whites "jare- 
fuUy and pour the mixture into a buttered tin. Bake in a very 
slow oven for about thirty-five minutes. 

292 



Planned for a 
Family of Four 



CAKES 



POUND CAKE 

1 poiind butter 10 eggs 

1 pound sugar Vi teaspoon grated nutmeg 

1 pound flour 2 teaspoons vanilla 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream; add the yolks of the eggs 
beaten light; then beat the whites to a stiff froth and add them 
alternately with the flour; flavor; put in two deep, buttered pans 
and bake in a moderate oven from forty to fifty minutes. 

ORANGE CAKE 

1/2 pound butter Rind of 1 orange 

1/2 pound sugar Juice of 2 oranges 

V2 pound flour 1 even teaspoon soda 

5 eggs 1 teaspoon hot water 

Mix like pound cake, beating the oranges into the sugar and 
butter and adding the soda dissolved in hot water last. Bake 
ill a slow oven until thoroughly done. 

BUTTER CAKE 

1% cups flour IV2 cups powdered sugai 

1 cup butter Vz teaspoon baking powder 

5 eggs 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Beat the butter and flour to a cream; add the yoiks, then the 
beaten whites, and last the sugar, baking powder and vanilla. 

PEGGY CAKE 

iVi cups sugar V2 cup milk 

1/2 cup butter 2 cups flour 

3 eggs 1 teaspoon baking powder 

Little grated nutmeg 

Mix hke pound cake, adding the baking powder last. Bake 
in shallow tins or in a Turk's head. 

GOLD CAKE 

3/4 cup butter 2 cups flour 

1 cup sugar % cup milk 

Yolks of 2 eggs IV2 teaspoons baking powder 

Little grated nutmeg 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream; add the eggs, then the 
sifted flour and baking powder alternately with the milk. Flavor 
with a little grated nutmeg. 

293 



CAKES 



Planned for a 
Family of Four 



SILVER CAKE 



1 cup sugar 2 cups flour 

6 ounces butter 2 teaspoons baking powder 

Whites of 2 eggs Vz cup cream 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream; add the stifHy beaten 
whites of eggs, then the sifted flour and baking powder; last add 
the cream and flavoring. 

PLAIN CAKE 

Vi cup butter 1/2 cup milk 

1 cup sugar 11/2 cups flour 

2 eggs 1 teaspoon baking powder 

1/2 teaspoon vanilla 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream; add the beaten yolks 
and beat all well; then add the milk alternately with the sifted 
flour and baking powder; last of all add the whites, beaten to a 
stifle froth, and the flavoring. Bake in one pan or in small gem 
pans. 

BLUEBERRY CAKE 

Vi cup butter 1 cup milk 

1 cup sugar 2 cups flour 

1 egg 1 teaspoon baking powder 

1 pint blueberries 

Mix the same as Plain Cake, adding the berries, well washed 
and drained and dusted with flour. 

SHELLBARK CAKE 

V4 pound butter 1 cup sbellbark meats 

1 cup sugar - 1/4 pound raisins 

2 eggs I^ pound curraals 
2 cups flour 14 pound citron 
1/2 teaspoon soda 1 teaspoon vanilla 

34 cup milk Ten gratings of nutmeg 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream; add the beaten eggs, 
then half the flour alternately with the milk in which the soda 
has been dissolved; add the nuts, then the fruit, well washed and 
drained and mixed with some of the flour; add vaniUa and nut- 
meg and the remaining flour. Bake in a moderate oven. 

294 



Planned tor a /"< ATT'TTC 

Family of Four \^AJVJC/0 

LEMON CAKE 

1/2 cup butter 1 Vi teaspoons baking powder 

11/2 cups sugar IV2 cups flour 

3 eggs Vi cup milk 

Juice and grated rind of y^ lemon 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream; add the beaten yolks; 
then alternately the milk and the sifted flour and baking powder; 
fold in the whites and add lemon. 

CORNSTARCH CAKE 

1 cup sugar 1 cup floiu' 

V4 cup butter 1 teaspoon baking powder 

1/2 cup TTiilk 1/2 cup cornstarch 

Whites of 3 eggs 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream; add the milk, then the 
flour, cornstarch and baking powder, well sifted together; last 
add the whites, beaten to a stiff froth. Bake in a loaf or in two 
layers, and ice. 

SIMPLE LAYER CAKE 

IVs cups sugar % cup milk 

y% cup butter 2 cups flour 

2 eggs IV2 teaspoons baking powder 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream; add the eggs; then the 
flour and milk alternately and the baking powder and flavoring 
leist. Bake in layers and fill with chocolate or other filling. 

FARMERS' FRUIT CAKE 

3 cups dried apples IV2 cups milk 
2 cups molasses 2 eggs 

1 cup butter 4 cups flour 

1 cup sugar 3 teaspoons baking powder 

1 cup seeded raisins . 3 teaspoons mixed spices 

Soak the apples over night; chop and cook slowly with the 
molasses until tender. Cream the butter and sugar; add the 
eggs, then the cooked apples and molasses, raisins and milk. 
Sift the flour, baking powder and spices and beat well while add- 
ing to the other ingredients. Pour into a well-greased pan and 
bake in a slow oven. 

295 



f^ * zri!' O Planned for a 

l^AJS-iSO Family of Four 

ECONOMICAL FRUIT CAKE 

1/2 cup butter 1 egg 

2 cups brown sugar V2 teaspoon cinnamon 
1 pound raisins 1/2 teaspoon cloves 

1 pound currants Pinch of salt 

14 pound citron 1 cup warm coffee 

1 cup molasses 3 cups flotrr 

1 teaspoon baking powder 

Wash the fruit thoroughly and put it in a warm place to dry. 
Beat the butter and sugar; add the fruit, molasses, egg and 
spices; then the flour and coflFee alternately and the baking 
powder last. Line a deep baking pan with well-buttered paper; 
pour the batter into it and bake in a slow oven about three hours. 

ONE-EGG CAKE 

1 cup sugar 1/2 cup milk 

Vi cup butter 1 teaspoon flavoiing 

1 egg iy2 teaspoons baking powder 

1% cups fiour 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream; add the egg beaten 
very light, then the milk and flavoring. Sift the flour and baking 
powder together; add these to the mixture and beat well. Bake 
about half an hour. 

MOCK POUND CAKE 

1/2 pound pulverized sugar V2 cup milk 

Vi poimd butter 134 cup flour 

3 eggs 1 teaspoon baking powder 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream; add the yolks of the 
eggs; then alternately the milk and the sifted flour and baking 
powder. Then beat the whites of the eggs very stiff and stir 
them into the mixture carefully. Pour into a greased pan and 
"sake one hour in a moderate oven. 

COCOANUT CAKE 

1/2 cup butter 1/2 cup milk 

1 cup sugar 134 cups flour 

1/2 cup shredded cocoanut 1 teaspoon baking powder 

2 eggs Flavoring 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream; add the cocoanut and 
eggs; then add the milk and sifted floiu- and baking powder. 

296 



iClanned for a /S A'^TTO 

Family of Four l^/lJiJiO 

Flavor to taste; turn into a greased pan and bake in a moderate 
oven for about forty-five minutes. 

LADY CAKE 

6 ounces butter 1/2 teaspoon almond extract 

1 cup powdered sugar Whites of 3 eggs 

V4 cup milk 11/2 cups flour 

1/2 teaspoon baking powder 

Beat the butter to a cream; add the sugar gradually, then the 
flavoring and milk and the beaten whites alternately with the 
sifted flour and baking powder. 

WHITE CUP CAKE 

Vi cup butter 1/2 cup cream 

1 cup powdered sugar 2 cups floiu- 

Dash of nutmeg Whites of 3 eggs 

Grated rind of 1/2 lemon V2 teaspoon soda 

1 teaspoon hot water 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream; add lemon rind and 
nutmeg, then the cream, then the flour alternately with the 
whites beaten to a stiff froth. Last add the soda dissolved in 
the hot water. Bake in shallow buttered tins or all in one. 

CINNAMON SWEET CAKE 

1 cup brown sugar 2 cups flour 

1 tablespoon butter 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

1 egg % cup milk 

IV2 teaspoons baking powder 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream; add the egg and cin- 
namon ; then the flour and milk alternately and the baking powder 
last. Pour into two shallow greased baking tins; spread brown 
sugar, cinnamon and bits of butter over the top and bake in a 
moderately hot oven. 

MARSHMALLOW CAKE 

1/2 cup butter IV2 cups flour 

1 cup sugar Grated nutmeg 

2 eggs 1 teaspoon vanilla 

V2 cup milk 1 level teaspoon baking powdei 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream; add the eggs, one at a 
time, then the milk, flour and flavoring, and last the baking 

297 



CA XT 17 O Wanned for a 

AUkJliO Family of Four 

powder. Beat thoroughly after adding each ingredient. Bake 
in layers and fill with marshmallow filling. 

COFFEE LOAF CAKE 

1/3 cup butter 1 egg 

V2 cup sugar 1 cup seeded raising 

1/2 cup molasses 2 cups floiu' 

V^ cup strong coffee V2 teaspoon soda 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream; add the molasses, then 
the beaten egg and coffee. Wash and drain the raisins; dredge 
with flour and add to the mixture; then add the sifted flour and 
soda. Beat well and pour into a deep, greased pan. Bake about 
one hour. 

MARBLE CAKE 

1 cup butter 3 cups flour 

2 cups powdered sugar 1 cup sweet milk 

4 eggs 1 teaspoon baking powder 

1 square unsweetened chocolate 

Beat the I^utter and sugar to a cream; add the yolks of the 
eggs, then the sifted flour and baking powder alternately with 
the milk. Fold in the whites; take one third of the batter out 
and add to it the chocolate melted and thiimed with a little hot 
water. Into the baking pan pour the yellow mixture to the depth 
of one inch; drop into this in two or three places a spoonful of 
the dark mixture, giving it a slight stir with the tip of a spoon 
and spreading it in broken circles around the dark mixture. Pour 
in more yellow batter, then more brown, proceeding in the same 
way until all the batter is used. Bake in a moderate oven. 



SURPRISE CAKE 

2 tablespoons butter 1 cup raisins 

1 cup sugar 2 cups flour 

V2 teaspoon allspice 1 teaspoon baking soda 

2 teaspoons cinnamon 1 cup apple sauce 
5^ teaspoon cloves Vz cup boiling water 

Rub the butter into the sugar and add the raisins and spices. 
Thin the apple sauce with the boiling water and add it to the 
other ingredients. Bake in a moderate oven for one hour. 

298 



Planned for a t^ W"UC 

Family of Four \^AJVJC/0 



SNIPPY-DOODLE 

1 cup sugar 1 cup flour 

1 tablespoon butter I/2 cup milk 

1 egg 1 teaspoon baking powder 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream and add the egg. Then 
stir in the flour and the milk alternately; add the baking powder 
last. Pour into a shallow, greased baking tin; and sprinkle with 
sugar and cinnamon. Bake in a moderate oven. 

SPONGE GINGER CAKE 

Yz cup sour milk 1 egg 

1/2 cup molasses V^ tablespoon ginger 

Vi cup butter 2 cups flour 
3/4 teaspoon soda 

Beat together the molasses, butter, egg, milk and ginger; then 
stir in the flour and last the soda dissolved in a very little hot 
water. Bake in shallow square tins. 

GINGERBREAD 

1 cup sugar 1 cup molasses 
Vz cup butter and lard 3 cups flour 

2 eggs 2 teaspoons cinnamon 

1 cup sour milk IV2 teaspoons ginger 

2 even teaspoons soda 1 teaspoon cloves 

Vi teaspoon grated nutmeg 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream; add the eggs, then the 
milk with the soda dissolved in it, last the molasses, spices and 
flour. Bake in square tins about twenty minutes. 

MOLASSES CAKE 

Yz cup granulated sugar 2'/^ cups sifted flour 

1/2 cup butter 1 teaspoon grated nutmeg 

1 cup molasses 11/2 teaspoons cinnamon 

2 even teaspoons soda Salt to taste 

1 cup boiling water 2 beaten eggs 

Cream the butter with the sugar and add the molasses; then 
add the boiling water in which the soda has been dissolved. 
Measure the flour after it is sifted; stir it into the molasses mix- 
ture when that has cooled; add spices and salt and last of all the 
eggs. Bake in a shallow greased pan in a very slow oven. 

299 



/^ A TrT* O Planned for a 

V^iU!kJ2/0 Family of Foui 

MOCHA TORTE 

6 eggs % cup sifted flour 

Yi cup sugar (half pulverized) 1 teaspoon baking powder 

1 tablespoon essence Turkish coffee 1 cup whipped cream 

Beat the sugar thoroughly with the yolks of the eggs; then 
add the coffee, and the sifted flour and baking powder alternately 
mth the well-beaten whites. Bake in two layers and put the 
whipped cream between the layers. 

For the icing use one cup of pulverized sugar, one tablespoon 
of boiling water and one tablespoon of coffee essence. 



PATRIOTIC CAKE (1776 RECIPE) 

1 pound risen bread dough I level teaspoon soda 

2 cups brown sugar 1 tablespoon water 

1 cup butter V2 pound currants 

3 eggs Vi pound seeded raisins 

2 tablespoons cream 1 level teaspoon cloves 

1 level teaspoon nutmeg 

To the risen bread dough add the other ingredients, dissolving 
the soda in the water and having the currants and raisins thor- 
oughly washed and drained. Pour the mixture into a greased 
pan and set it in a warm place to rise for twenty minutes. Bake 
in a moderate oven and when cool, ice and ornament with candied 
cherries. 

DEVILS' FOOD ;! f^hx^ c 

2 oimces unsweetened chocolate iVz cups sugar 'TX/rf'^'^fi 

Yolks of 4 eggs 1/2 cup butter -^ ^-^^^'^^-^ 

34 cup milk 1^4 cups flour -^CiUx- ie«-t-i. 

Whites of 2 eggs 1 teaspoon baking powaer <»t- 

1 teaspoon vanilla -<t-e,-j^ ^L^^^u^i^ti ^ci) 

Melt the chocolate with half the milk and the yolks or two 
eggs over hot water and cook until a thick custard is formed. 
Cream the butter and sugar; add the remaining eggs, the flour 
and baking powder, sifted, the milk, vaniUa and chocolate custard 
after it has cooled. Bake in layers and cover with boiled white 
frosting. Or cut out the centers of the two upper layers and fill 
with whipped cream to which sugar, cherries and nuts have been 
added.. Put the cream between the layers, also, and ice the top. 

300 



Planned for a 
Family of Four 



CAKES 



SPANISH BUN No. 1 



3 ounces butter . 6 ounces flour 

Vi pound sugar ' 1/2 cup cream 

2 eggs 1 teaspoon baking powder 
1/2 cup currants 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream; add the yolks of the 
eggs, then the cream alternately with the sifted flour, mixing the 
baking powder with the last of the flour. Then add the whites 
of the eggs, beaten very stiff, and last of all the currants, thoroughly 
washed and dried. Bake in shallow tins and ice with boiled icing. 



SPANISH BUN No. 2 

Vi pound butter % pound flour 

% pound sugar 1 teaspoon baking powder 

2 eggs % cup milk 

Dash of nutmeg 6 ounces currants 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream; add the eggs and grated 
nutmeg, then alternately the milk and sifted flour and baking 
powder. Last of all add the currants, well washed and drained 
and dusted with flour. 

CUP CAKES 

1/2 cup butter Yi teaspoon baking powder 

1 cup sugar 11/2 cups floiu- 

2 eggs 10 drops almond extract 

Milk (about Vi cup) 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream; add the eggs and beat 
until light; add sifted flour, baking powder, flavoring and milk 
to make a smooth batter, medium thick. Bake in well-greased 
cups or gem pans. 

DROP CAKES 

14 cup butter 3 tablespoons milk 

3/4 cup sugar l^/i cups flour 

1 egg 1 teaspoon baking powder 

Beat the butter, sugar and egg together; add the milk, flour 
and baking powder, well sifted, and flavoring if desired. Drop 
from a spoon three inches apart on buttered tins and bake 
quickly in a hot oven. 

20 301 



CAKES 



Planned for a 
Family of Four 



CHOCOLATE DROP CAKES 



Whites of 4 eggs 1 cup sugar 

2 ounces grated chocolate 3 ounces flour 

Beat the eggs to a stiff froth; add the sugar, then the chocolate, 
melted, and the flour. Drop from a spoon on buttered tins, 
allowing room for the mixture to spread. Bake in a quick oven. 

CURRANT DROP CAKES 

1 cup powdered sugar % cup sour cream 

Vs cup butter Vi teaspoon soda 

1 egg 1 teaspoon hot water 

1% cups flour V4 cup currants 

Stir the butter and sugar to a cream; add the egg, beaten until 
very light, then the sifted flour. Beat all well together; add the 
cream and the soda dissolved in hot water. Last add the cur- 
rants, washed and drained and mixed with a teaspoon of flour. 
Drop the mixture on buttered tins and bake in a hot oven. 

GINGER DROP CAKES 

1/2 cup butter 1 tablespoon ginger 

1 cup molasses 2 eggs 

1/2 cup sugar 1/2 tablespoon soda 

1/2 teaspoon salt 14 cup hot water 

Flour to make stiff batter 

Warm the butter slightly; beat it in the molasses; add the 
ginger, sugar and salt, then a little of the flour, then the beaten 
eggs, then more flour. Make the batter stiffer than needed to 
aUow for the soda and hot water, which are to be added last. 
Drop on buttered tins and bake in a quick oven. 

OAT CAKES 

1 cup granulated sugar 1 tablespoon flour 

1 large tablespoon butter 21/2 cups rolled oats 

2 eggs 1 teaspoon baking powder 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Cream the sugar and butter; add the eggs, beaten separately and 
then together, the vanilla and the dry ingredients, well mixed. 
Drop the mixture from a teaspoon on buttered tins, allowing room 
for the cakes to spread. 

302 



Planned for a /^ A XT "CO 

Family of Four l^AJViiO 



OAT COOKIES 



1/2 cup sugar 1/2 cup flour 

Va cup butter 1/2 cup chopped raisins 

i egg 1/2 tablespoon cinnamon 

1/4 teaspoon salt Vi teaspoon soda 

1 cup rolled oats 1 tablespoon hot water 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream; mix in the other ingre- 
dients, adding the soda last, dissolved in the hot water. Roll 
the dough into small balls like nuts and bake on buttered tins 
in a moderately hot oven. 

PEPPERNUTS 

IVi pounds brown sugar 2 teaspoons cinnamon 

3 eggs 1 teaspoon soda 

1 cup chopped walnuts 1 tablespoon hot water 

1 teaspoon cloves Flour to make dough 

Beat the eggs thoroughly; add the sugar and beat again. 
Then add the chopped walnuts and spices and some of the flour. 
Add the soda dissolved in the hot water and more flour — enough 
to make a dough that can be rolled out on a pie board. Roll 
one eighth of an inch thick; cut into tiny rounds and bake on 
greased tins. 

BELGRADER BREAD 

1 pound powdered sugar 1 small nutmeg grated 

4 eggs 14 teaspoon cloves 

Vi poxmd chopped almonds Vi teaspoon powdered hartshorn 

Vi pound chopped citron Sufficient flour to make dough 

Beat the eggs and sugar together; add the almonds, citron and 
spices; then add the flour gradually. Take one-fourth of the 
dough; roll it out on a board well dusted with flour; cut into 
diamond-shaped pieces; place half an almond or pecan in the 
center of each, and paint with egg, using a small stiff brush. 
Bake on greased tins in a hot oven. 

ALMOND ROCK CAKES 

Y4 potmd chopped almonds Pinch of salt 

1 poimd powdered sugar Whites of 5 eggs 

Add the salt to the eggs and beat as stiff as possible. Add the 
sugar gradually, then the almonds. Drop from a teaspoon on 
buttered tins and bake in a slow oven until delicately browned. 

303 



i^ A "^170 Planned for a 

^AJ&.JSO Family of Four 



y MACAROONS 

1/2 poimd shelled almonds 1 pound pulverized sugar 

1 teaspoon vanilla Whites of 3 eggs 

Blanch the almonds and plunge them into cold water. Run 
them through a chopper or pound them as fine as possible; add 
the vanilla and sugar and the whites of the eggs, well beaten. 
Work the paste thoroughly; then dip the hands in water and roll 
the paste into balls the size of a nutmeg. Lay them on buttered 
paper an inch apart and bake fifteen or twenty minutes in a slow 
oven. 

COCOANUT MACAROONS 

1 grated cocoanut V2 cup flour 
1/2 its weight in sugar White of 1 egg 

Mix the cocoanut thoroughly with the sugar and flour; add 
the white of the egg, well beaten, and work the paste carefully. 
RoU it into balls the size of a nutmeg and lay them on buttered 
paper. Bake fifteen or twenty minutes in a slow oven. 

NUT MACAROONS 

Whites of 2 eggs Vz tablespoon flour 

i/i pound pov?dered sugar Pinch of salt 

V2 pound chopped nuts 

Beat the whites very stiff; stir in the sugar, flour and salt and 
last the nuts. With wet hands roll the mixture into small balls 
and bake on buttered paper. 

CHOCOLATE CAKES 

2 cups sugar 1 cup grated chocolate 
1/2 cup butter 2 cups flour 

2 eggs 1/2 teaspoon vanilla 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream; add the yolks of the 
eggs and the chocolate (melted by standing over hot water); 
then add alternately the flour and the well-beaten whites of the 
eggs. Add the flavoring; work the mixture well and roU it in 
long narrow pieces. Roll these in granulated sugar and bake 
them on pans dusted with flour. If the cakes spread and crack 
open like macaroons they are right. 

304 



Planned for a /^ A TTT^C 

Family of Four l^AJviiO 

CHOCOLATE WAFERS 

2 pounds sugar 14 tablespoons melted lard 

3 eggs and butter 

1/2 pound grated chocolate Flour to make dough 

2 teaspoons ciimamon 

Beat the eggs with the sugar; add the other ingredients, melt- 
ing the chocolate first over hot water, and using enough flour to 
make a dough that can be rolled very thin. Roll; cut with a 
round biscuit cutter and bake on buttered tins in a quick oven. 

A-P'S 

% cup butter 2 eggs 

1 cup sugar V2 pound flour 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream; add the eggs well beaten, 
then the flour. Drop by the half teaspoon on buttered tins and 
bake until the edges are delicately browned. 



GINGER SNAPS No. 1 

1 cup melted butter and lard 1 tablespoon ginger 

V2 cup sugar 1 scant tablespoon soda 

i cup molasses I/4 cup milk 

Flour to make stiff dough 

Mix the butter and lard with the sugar; add some flour, then 
the molasses and ginger, and the soda dissolved in a very little 
warm water. Continue adding flour and milk alternately until 
a stifl' dough is formed. Roll out as thin as possible; cut into 
round cakes and bake on greased tins in a quick oven. 



GINGER SNAPS No. 2 

1/2 cup molasses V2 cup butter 

1/2 cup sugar 1/2 cup sour milk 

' 11/2 tablespoons ginger 1/2 teaspoon soda 

1/2 tablespoon cinnamon Vz tablespoon hot water 

Flour to make stiff dough 

Boil the molasses, spices and sugar together; add the butter, 
sour milk and the soda dissolved in hot water. Add sufficient 
flour to make a stifl dough; roll very thin; cut into round cakes 
and bake in a hot oven. 

305 



f^ ATT'lTQ riannod for a 

ViiXi.£/0 Family of Four 

ORANGE GINGERBREAD 

12 ounces flour 1 teaspoon allspice 

4 ounces brown sugar 2 ounces candied orange peel 

1 teaspoon ginger 4 ounces butter 
Molasses 

Sift the flour; stir in the spices and chopped orange peel ; warm 
the butter and add it; then mix all to a dough with molasses. 
Roll very thin, using as little flour as possible; cut in small round 
cakes and bake in a quick oven. 

CRISP GINGERBREAD 

1 pound flour 1 teaspoon cloves 

% cup sugar Vi teaspoon mace 

% cup butter Grated rind of 1 lemon 

1 tablespoon ginger Molasses 

Cut and rub the butter into the flour and sugar until thoroughly 
mixed; add spices and lemon peel; mix thoroughly and moisten 
with molasses. Roll the dough very thin; cut into squares and 
bake in a hot oven. 

CRULLERS (New England Doughnuts) 

1 egg 1 teaspoon butter 

1 cup sugar P'iour 

Cassia or nutmeg 1 cup sour milk 

1 teaspoon soda 

Beat the egg; add the sugar, flavoring to taste, butter, melted, 
and flour and milk alternately. Dissolve the soda in the milk, and 
mix all as lightly as possible. Use flour enough to make a soft 
dough; roll and fry in deep fat, hot enough to smoke but not too 
hot, or the crullers will brown and not be cooked through. Sweet 
milk and two tablespoons baking powder may be substituted for 
the sour milk and soda. 

JUMBLES 

2 cups sugar Flour 

1 cup butter 2 tablespoons sour milk 

2 eggs beaten separately Vz teaspoon soda 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream; add the eggs and part 
of the flour; then the milk, dissolving the soda in the milk. And 
sufEcient flour to make a dough just stiff enough to roll thin. 
Cut in rings and bake in a moderate oven. 

306 



Planned for a r<AVT?C! 

Family of Four l^AJVliO 

COOKIES 

1 cup sugar Vi cup milk 

V2 cup butter and lard Flour to make.dough 

i egg 1 teaspoon baking powder 

Few gratings of nutmeg Sugar and cinnamon 

Follow the directions for Jumbles; roll as thin as possible, and 
sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon. 

SAND TARTS 

Make jumbles, cutting them into squares. Brush the top with 
egg and sprinkle with granulated sugar. 

PEANUT CAKES 

Whites of 5 eggs 1 tablespoon flour 

1 cup sugar Ground peanuts 

Beat the eggs as stiff as possible; add the sugar and flour; 
then stir in enough peanuts to make a very stiff batter. Drop 
in small lumps on buttered tins and bake in a quick oven. 

FRUIT JUMBLES 

1 cup butter Grated nutmeg 

1 cup sugar 3 eggs , 

2 tablespoons lemon juice jlO ounces flourj 

1/2 pound seeded raisins or currants 

Stir the butter and sugar to a cream; add the lemon and a 
little grated nutmeg; then the eggs beaten separately, then the 
flour, leaving out a tablespoonful to mix with the fruit. Have 
the fruit well washed and drained; mix with the flour and add 
to the batter. Drop on buttered tins and bake. 

MERINGUES 

Whites of 3 eggs 1 cup powdered sugar 

^ 1/2 teaspoon vanilla 

Beat the eggs to a stiff froth ; stir in the powdered sugar lightly 
with a wooden spoon. When thoroughly mixed flavor and 
arrange the meringue on buttered paper in the shape of eggs; 
sift powdered sugar thickly over the top; let them stand a few 
minutes; shake off the superfluous sugar; lay the paper on tins 

307 



CA ■!?"CC Planned for a 

i i l S . r ^O Family of Font 

and bake in a very slow oven until a delicate brown. When 
cool, remove carefully from the paper; dip a spoon in hot water; 
scoop out the inside; dust with powdered sugar and set away 
until serving time. Fill with ice cream or whipped cream and 
press together, leaving some of the cream visible. 

KISSES 

Follow the recipe for meringues, arranging in smaller mounds; 
when done do not remove the inside but press two pieces together, 
dipping the flat sides lightly in white of egg to make them stick. 

PLAIN FROSTING 

1 cup powdered or confectioners' sugar 

2 tablespoons milk or water 
1/4 teaspoon vanilla 

Add oidy enough liquid to make a moderately thick paste; 
different grades of sugar may require different amounts. 

Two tablespoons of cocoa or grated chocolate, melted, may be 
added if desired. 

ORNAMENTAL FROSTING 

1 cup powdered sugar White of 1 egg 

1 teaspoon lemon juice 

This frosting is to be used only for decoration on a cake that 
has already been iced. 

Beat the egg until it is frothy but not dry; add three tea- 
spoons of sugar and beat five minutes; add one teaspoon every 
five minutes until the frosting is thick; then add the lemon juice. 
Continue beating until a point of the mixture will keep any form; 
press through a pastry tube upon the calfe as desired. 

BOILED FROSTING 

1 cup sugar 1 egg white 

4 tablespoons water 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Boil the sugar and water until the syrup will thread when 
dropped from the tip of a spoon. Pour gradually over the stiflBy 
beaten white, beating constantly until the mixture is of the right 
consistency to spread; then add flavoring and spread evenly 
with a knife over the cold cake. 

308 



Planned for a r* A VITC 

Family of Four \^AJVilO 

If two eggs are used instead of one the mixture will not harden 
so quickly and will be more easily spread. 

CHOCOLATE FROSTING No. 1 

Make a boiled frosting, adding one square of imsweetened 
chocolate, grated, to the beaten egg. The chocolate will melt 
when the hot syrup is poured on. 

CHOCOLATE TROSTING No. 2 

2 tablespoons melted chocolate 5 tablespoons powdered sugar 

3 tablespoons boiling water 

Cook over the fire until smooth and glossy, and use at once. 
This icing is to be used for eclairs or small cakes. 

MAPLE-SUGAR FROSTING 

% pound maple sugar Vi cup milk 

Whites of 2 eggs 

Scrape the sugar into a saucepan; add the milk and stir over 
the fire until it spins a thread. Pour hot over the beaten whites 
of eggs; beat until it begins to thicken and spread quickly between 
the layers of cake. 

DIVINITY FROSTING 

1 cup brown sugar 1 egg white 

3 tablespoons water 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Boil the sugar and water until it forms a soft ball when dropped 
into cold water. Proceed as with Boiled Frosting. 

CHOCOLATE FILLING 

5 tablespoons grated chocolate 1 egg 

1 cup sugar 2 teaspoons milk 

Vz teaspoon vanilla 

Melt the chocolate; add the sugar, egg and milk and cook for 
five minutes over boiling water. Cool slightly; add the vanilla 
?uid spread between the layers of cake. 

309 



CAKES ''"*"'""' "" ■ 



Family of Four 



FIG FILLING 



1/2 pound chopped figs 3 tablespoons boiling water 

2 tablespoons sugar 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

Cook all the ingredients together in a double boiler until thick 
enough to spread without running oflF the cake. Have the cake 
cold and the filling hot. 

FRUIT FILLING 

Whites of 3 eggs 4 tablespoons chopped raisins 

V2 cup sugar Vi cup chopped almonds 

4 tablespoons chopped citron 14 pound chopped figs 

Beat the whites to a stiff froth; add the sugar gradually, then 
the fruit and nuts. 

ORANGE FILLING 

To the juice and grated rind of one orange add enough powdered 
sugar to make a stiff paste. Spread between the layers of a cake, 
icing the top layer. 

LEMON FILLING 

1 cup sugar V2 tablespoon butter 

Yolks of 2 eggs Juice and grated rind of 1 lemon 

Put all the ingredients in a double boiler and stir and cook 
until the mixture thickens. Spread between the layers of cake 
and ice the top with a white icing made from the whites of eggs 
not used in the filling. 

COCOANUT FILLING 

Make a boiled frosting; spread as usual; sprinkle cocoanut 
over the top; lay on another layer and do the same. 

MARSHMALLOW FILLING 

1 cup sugar White of 1 egg 

5 tablespoons boiling water 8 marshmallows 

1/2 teaspoon vanilla 

Beat the white of the egg until stiff and heat the marshmallows 
until soft. Boil the sugar and water until it spins a thread; pour 
on the egg and marshmallows and beat until cool enough to spread. 

310 



Planned for a <-i a •C'T|«q 

FamUv of Four K^AJSkJi^O 



Family of Four 



311 



/^ A Xn?C Planned for a 

I^aJxJC/O Family of Four 



Planned for a P A 'STT? ^ 

Family ot Four V/rtJVXS/O 



313 



f Alf P'S Planned for a 

V^iUS-IiD Family of Four 



U4 



PASTRY AND PIES 



PASTRY AND PIES 

THE American fondness for pie has become a byword, and 
rightly perhaps, considering the indigestibility of pastry, 
even at its best; yet every good cook prides herself upon the 
quality of her products in this particular field. Much, too, de- 
pends upon the way she does her work; for pastry may be light, 
flaky, and fairly digestible, or it may be heavy, soggy and incapa- 
ble of digestion even by the most healthy person. 

The baking is especially important, because even good crust 
poorly baked is unfit to eat. The oven must be hot, with the 
greatest heat at the bottom, so that the under crust may be 
thoroughly cooked, and cooked before the filling of the pie has 
a chance to soak in and make it soggy. 

Butter makes a more digestible crust than lard, and although 
the recipes call for lard because that is more generally available, 
some other preparation is to be preferred. There are several 
on the market. 

PUFF-PASTE 

14 pound butter V2 teaspoon salt 

1/2 pound flour V4 to 1/2 cup ice-water 

The secret of making good puff-paste is to have all the ingredients 
cold. Use a marble slab if possible and avoid making the paste 
on a warm, damp day. It should be made in a cool place, as 
it is necessary to keep the paste cold during the whole time of 
preparation. The recipe makes two pies or four crusts. 

Cut off one third of the butter and put the remaining two thirds 
in a bowl of ice- water. Divide this into four equal parts; pat 
each into a thin sheet and set them away on ice. Mix and sift the 
flour and salt; rub the reserved butter into it and make as stiff 
as possible with ice-water. Dust the slab with flour; turn the 

21 -' 317 



PASTRY AND PIES FJ^r^^LI 

paste upon it; knead for one minute; then stand on ice for five 
minutes. Roll the cold paste into a rectangular sheet about one 
third of an inch thick; place the cold butter in the center and fold 
the paste over it, first from the sides and then the ends, keeping 
the shape square and folding so that tlie butter is completely 
encased and cannot esca.pe through any cracks as it is rolled. Roll 
out to one fourth inch thickness, keeping the rectangular shape and 
folding as before, but without butter. Continue rolhng and fold- 
ing, enclosing a sheet of butter at every alternate folding until all 
four sheets are used. Then turn the folded side down and roll in 
one direction into a long narrow strip, keeping the edges as straight 
as possible. Fold the paste over, making three even layers. Then 
roll again and fold as before. Repeat the process until the dough 
has had six turns. Cut into the desired shapes and place on the 
ice for twenty minutes or longer before putting in the oven. 

If during the making the paste sticks to the board or pin, 
remove it immediately and stand on the ice until thoroughly 
chilled. Scrape the board clean; rub with a dry cloth and dust 
with fresh flour before trying again. Use as little flour as possible 
in rolling, but use enough to keep the paste dry. Roll with a 
light, even, long stroke in every direction, but never work the 
rolling pin back and forth as that movement toughens the paste 
and breaks the bubbles of air. 

The baking of puff-paste is almost as important as the rolling, 
and the oven must be very hot, with the greatest heat at the 
bottom, so that the paste wUl rise before it browns. If the paste 
should begin to scorch, open the draughts at once and cool the 
temperatirre by placing a pan of ice- water in the oven. 



HALF PUFF-PASTE FOR FRUIT PIES 

V2 pound flour Ice-water 

2 ounces lard 4 ounces butter 

Pinch of salt 

Sift vhe flour and salt; cut into it the lard; mix to a dough with 
cold water. Flour the pastry slab or pie board; turn out the paste; 
roll half an inch thick; sprinkle lightly with flour and roll again. 
Lay on the butter; fold the crust over; roll as before; dust with 
flour; fold and roll again. Repeat the process once more; set 
in a cool plae^ for half an hour or longer; give another roll and the 
paste is read^ for use. It should make four single crusts. 

318 



pSSSfo^%o"ur PASTRY AND PIES 

PLAIN PASTE 

1 cup flour 1 tablespoon lard 

1/2 teaspoon salt Ice-water 

Sift the flour and salt; rub in the lard with the finger tips as 
lightly as possible; then add water, preferably ice-water, drop 
by drop until a dough is formed. The amount of water will depend 
on the flour. Flour the bottom of the pan; roll out the crust 
and line the bottom of the pan with it. Trim off the edges; roll 
them out; form into a long strip and press around the edge of 
the crust, moistening it slightly with water first to make the 
dough adhere. Fill and bake in a quick oven, having the greatest 
heat at the bottom. A gas stove is more satisfactory for pies 
than a coal stove. The recipe makes two single crusts. 



TARTLETS 

Roll puff -paste one eighth of an inch thick; cut it into squares; 
turn the points together into the middle and press slightly to make 
them stay. Bake until thoroughly done; place a spoonful of 
jam in the center of each; cover the jam with meringue and brown 
the meringue in a quick oven. 

By brushing the top of the paste with beaten egg diluted with 
one teaspoon of water a glazed appearance may be obtained. 



TORTO FRUTAS 

Line the sides of a baking dish with a half puff-paste; cover the 
bottom with sliced pineapple; put in a layer of peeled sliced 
oranges, then sliced bananas and then a few slices of lemon; 
sifting a generous supply of powdered sugar over each layer. 
E-epeat the layers until the dish is full and cover with chopped nuts 
and narrow strips of the puff-paste. Bake slowly for an hour 
or more. 

PEACH CRUSTS 

Roll puff -paste one-eighth of an inch thick; cut in two-and-a- 
half-inch squares and bake in a hot oven. Cool; press down the 
centers and place in each a half of a canned peach, drained from 
its syrup. Sprinkle with powdered sugar and squeeze a little 
lemon juice into each cavity. 

319 



PASTRY AND PIES fI^S^Tfou'. 



FRENCH TART 



Roll out puff -paste; cover a pie dish with it; turn and notch 
the edge; fill the crust with any small preserved fruits, jam or 
marmalade; cut out an ornament of leaves from the crust; lay 
it on the top and bake for about half an hour in a quick oven, 

BAKED APPLE DUMPLINGS 

Pare and core large tart apples. Make a short pie-crust; roll 
thin and cut into squares large enough to cover an apple. Place 
one apple in the center of each square; fill the cavity with sugar, 
cinnamon and grated nutmeg; fold the corners to meet at the top, 
pinching the edges to make them stick together and hold in the 
juices. Bake until the apples are tender and serve with hard or 
wine sauce. 

PUMPKIN PIE 

11/2 cups cooked pumpkin 1 tablespoon flour 

% cup milk 1 teaspoon vanilla 

2 eggs Yi cup sugar 

Vi teaspoon salt 

Cut the pumpkin in small pieces; peel, wash and steam or stew 
until tender. Mash to a pulp; cook £ls dry as possible without 
scorching and rub through a colander or coarse sieve. Mix thor- 
oughly with the milk and other ingredients; pour into an open 
crust and bake slowly for forty or fifty minutes. Spices may be 
used in addition to the vanilla for flavoring if desired. 

Squash pie may be made from this recipe, using less milk. 

RHUBARB PIE 

VA cups rhubarb 1 egg 

% cup sugar 1 tablespoon flour 

Prepare the rhubarb and scald it as for stewing; miy with the 
other ingredients and bake between two crusts. 

LEMON MERINGUE PIE • 

1 cup water Juice and grated rind of 1 lemon 

1 tablespoon cornstarch Yolks of 2 eggs 

1 cup sugar Whites of 2 eggs 

Butter size of 1 egg 2 tablespoons sugar 

Boil the water; wet the cornstarch and stir it in; boil until 
clear and pour on the sugar and butter. When cool add the lemon 

320 



^^^irJt%^ur PASTRY AND PIES 

and egg yolks and pour into a pie plate lined with any kind of paste 
preferred. Bake in a hot oven, having the greatest heat at the 
bottom of the oven. When nearly done cover with a meringue 
made from the whites of the eggs and two teaspoons of granulated 
sugar and return to the oven to brown. 

LEMON CREAM PIE 

1/2 cup milk Juice and grated rind of 1 lemon 

1 cup sugar Yolks of 3 eggs 

1 teaspoon cornstarch Whites of 3 eggs 

3 tablespoons sugar 

Bake the pie crust first. Heat the milk; add next four ingre- 
dients as in making custard; pour this, boiling, upon the whites, 
beaten light and mixed with the three tablespoons of sugar. Pour 
into the crust and brown slightly in a hot oven. 

RAISIN PIE 

1 cup sugar 1 cup water 

1 heaping tablespoon flour Juice and grated rind of 2 lemons 
IV2 cups molasses 1 cup seeded raisins 

Stir the flour into the sugar; then add the other ingredients 
in the order named. Bake between two crusts, slashing the 
upper one. 

CRANBERRY TART 

11/2 cups cranberries ^^ cup sugar 

V2 cup water 

Wash the cranberries and cook them with the sugar and water 
for ten minutes. Line a pie plate with paste; pour in the cran- 
berries when they have cooled; moisten the edges and lay narrow 
strips of paste across the plate, forming diamond-shaped spaces. 
Add a rim of paste; press into flutings with the finger and bake 
in a hot oven. 

CUSTARD PIE 

2 eggs Pinch of salt 

3 tablespoons sugar 11/2 cups milk 

Grated nutmeg or cinnamon 

Beat the eggs slightly; add the sugar, salt and milk. Line a 
pie plate with paste; strain in the mixture; sprinkle grated nut- 

321 



PASTRY AND PIES Fi'X°olFoVr 

meg or cinnamon over the top and put in a quick oven. Wlien 
the edge of the crust begins to brown reduce the heat and bake 
till the custard is just set. 

COCOANUT CUSTARD 

11/2 cups milk 2 eggs 

Sugar to taste 1 cup grated cocoanut 

Boil the milk; sweeten to taste and cool. Beat the eggs sepa- 
rately and then together; add them to the cocoanut and combine 
with the milk. Bake in a crust like custard pie. 

CHEESE CAKE 

1 cup milk 1 tablespoon cornstarch 

Pinch of salt 2 eggs 

% cup sugar 1 cake cottage cheese 

Scald the milk; add the sugar, salt and cornstarch dissolved 
in a little cold milk. Stir over hot water until the mixture thickens; 
then add the beaten eggs and last the cheese cake, mixed with a 
little extra milk. Line one pie plate or a number of small patty 
pans with paste; fill -with, the mixture and bake until the cheese 
custard is firm. 

APPLE PIE 

Pare, core and slice tart, juicy apples; cook them in as little 
water as possible; rub through a colander; add a piece of butter 
the size of an egg and sugar to taste; also half the peel of a grated 
lemon. Bake between two crusts, using half puff-paste or plain 
paste. 

CHERRY PIE 

Line a pie plate with half puff-paste and bake until delicately 
browned. Cook the cherries for several minutes in plenty of 
sugar, adding no water; pour them into the crust; cover with 
paste and bake in a quick oven. 

BETHLEHEM APPLE TART 

Pare, core and slice juicy tart apples. Line a pie plate with 
half puff -paste; put in layers of apples and sugar until the dish is 
very full; add a little water; drop small pieces of butter over the 

322 



FS^o^Vur PASTRY AND PIES 

top and sprinkle with cinnamon. Do not cover with crust but 
bake in a quick oven until the apples are tender. If the crust 
bakes before they are tender cover with an inverted pie plate t<? 
hasten the cooking of the fruit. 

PEACH PIE 

Line a pie plate with half puff-paste and fill it with layers of 
sliced peaches thickly covered with sugar. Heap the peaches 
well in the middle; cover with crust and bake. 

PEACH TART 

Follow the recipe for Bethlehem Apple Tart. 

MmCE-MEAT 

1 pound suet 3 cups seeded raisins 

2 pounds lean beef I cup currants 

1 quart chopped apples V2 cup moJasses 

Vi cup candied orange peel X oup sugar 

Vi cup candied lemon peel 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

Vi pound citron 1/2 teaspoon allspice 

Juice and grated rind of 1 lemon Vz teaspoon cloves 

Juice and grated rind of 1 orange 1 nutmeg, grated 
21/2 cups sweet cider 

Let the meat simmer slowly in a covered kettle until tender; 
run through a meat chopper and mix with the suet, which has 
likewise been put through the chopper. Add the other ingredients 
in the order named, chopping the citron and orange and lemon 
peel before mixing. Put in a stone crock; cover and let stand 
several days to ripen. Bake in plain or half pui5-paste and use 
pufl-paste for the top crust. 

WASHINGTON PIE 

Vi pound butter 1 glass sweet cider 

Yi pound sugar Grated rind of y2 lemon 

5 eggs Little grated nutmeg 

V2 pound flour Raspberry jam 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream ; add the yolks of the eggs, 
then the flour alternately with the beaten whites; last add the 
cider, nutmeg and lemon. Bake in two laj^ers; fill with raspberry 
jam half an inch thick and sift sugar over the top. Serve for des- 
sert, cut like pie. 

323 



PASTRY AND PIES FamTo^Fou? 



HEALTH PIE 

A pie lar more palatable and digestible than the ordinary 
American pie is made by using an earthen or porcelain baking 
dish and omitting the bottom crust. Fill the dish well with fruit 
and sugar; cover with paste and bake as usual. 

SHORT CAKE 

Puff-paste makes the finest short cake. Bake the crust in two 
rounds and arrange them in layers, buttering each and covering 
thickly with fruit, sugar and a little cinnamon if liked. Over 
the top layer of fruit spread whipped cream or a meringue made of 
the whites of two eggs and two tablespoons of granulated sugar. 
If the meringue is used, brown slightly in the oven. Serve cold 
with cream. 

Strawberries make the best short cake, but other berries and 
sliced peaches are also good. 

ECONOMICAL SHORT CAKE 

2 cups flour 1 heaping teaspoon baking powder 

1/2 teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon butter 

Milk 

Sift the dry ingredients; rub in the butter; add milk to make a 
soft dough. Roll out a half inch thick and bake in a hot oven. 
When cold, cut open, butter and spread with fruit and meringue 
as directed under Short Cake. 



324 



Plannedfora PASTRY AND PIES 

Family of Four * "■*'' ■*•*•■■*■ 



325 



PASTRY AND PIES p^^r^i"'" 

■*— "^ Family of Four 



326 



SANDWICHES AND SAVORIES 



SANDWICHES AND SAVORIES 

THE sandwich is coming into ever wider use, for school lunch- 
eons, picnics, simple luncheons at home, and light refresh- 
ments of all sorts. Like the salad, it is capable of almost infinite 
variety, and necessity is frequently the mother of invention. 
There are certain combinations, however, that are worth repeat- 
ing many times, and these will lend to the resourceful housewife 
suggestions for others. 

MEAT SANDWICHES 

An infinite variety of meat sandwiches can be made — beef, 
lamb, chicken, ham, tongue, etc. The meat may be sliced thin 
and placed between buttered bread or minced and mixed with 
mustard, catsup. Mayonnaise or cooked salad dressing. 

MEAT FILLING FOR SANDWICHES 

1 tablespoon butter Vi teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon flour Vi teaspoon mustard 

1 cup "iilk Dash of red pepper 

Yolks of 2 eggs 1 tablespoon lemon juice 
1 cup cold meat 

Melt the butter in a double boiler; stir in the flour; add the 
milk gradually; then the eggs, well beaten, and the seasoning. 
Cook until thick, stirring constantly to prevent lumps. Remove 
from the fire; cool and beat in the lemon juice; then add the meat, 
finely chopped or ground. 

BOHEMIAN SANDWICHES 

Chop shrimps very fine and mix them to a paste with melted 
butter. Season with lemon juice, Worcestershire, salt and pepper. 
Spread between thin slices of toast. 



SANDWICHES AND SAVORIES ri'muy^fFou? 



ANCHOVY SANDWICHES 

Pound tne anchovies to a paste and mix with an equal quantity 
of ohves stoned and finely chopped. 



FIG SANDWICHES 

Remove the stems and chop the figs fine. Put in a double 
boiler with a little water and cook until a paste is formed. Add a 
few drops of lemon juice; set aside; when cool spread on thin 
slices of buttered bread. 



DATE AND FIG SANDWICHES 

Wash equal quantities of dates and figs; stone the dates; add 
blanched almonds in quantity about one fourth of the entire bulk; 
then run the whole mixture through a meat chopper. Moisten 
with orange juice and press tightly into baking powder tins. When 
ready to use, dip the box in hot water; turn out the mixture; 
slice and olace between thin slices of buttered bread. 



FRUIT SANDWICHES 

Soak any kind or several kinds of dried fruit in water for two 
hours; drain and dry thoroughly; moisten with orange or lemon 
or a little grape juice, and spread on thin slices of buttered bread. 

NUT SANDWICHES 

Moisten chopped nuts of any kind with cream or Mayonnaise 
dressing; add a little salt and spread on slices of brown bread. 

NUT AND RAISIN SANDWICHES 

Take equal quantities of nuts and raisins; moisten with cream 
or grape juice and spread on thin slices of bread. 

OLIVE SANDWICHES 

Take either ripe or green olives; remove the seeds; mince and 
mix thoroughly with Mayonnaise dressing. Spread between slices 
of whole-wheat or graham bread. 

330 



FZSyofFour SANDWICHES AND SAVORIES 

LETTUCE AND CREAM-CHEESE SANDWICHES 

Mix equal quantities of chopped lettuce and cream cheese; add 
salt and spread on thin slices of buttered bread. 



LETTUCE AND WALNUT SANDWICHES 

Mix chopped walnuts with Mayonnaise dressing and spread on 
thin slices of bread; lay a leaf of lettuce over each; then another 
slice of thin, unbuttered bread. 



LETTUCE SANDWICHES 

Pull the lettuce into small bits; mix thoroughly with Mayon- 
naise dressing and spread between layers of unbuttered bread. 
Do not make until near serving time or the lettuce will lose its 
crispness. 

EGG SANDWICHES 

Mix hard-boiled egg, finely chopped, with Mayonnaise dressing 
and spread on slices of buttered bread, preferably graham. 
Chopped olives may be added to the egg mixture if desired. 

SURPRISE SANDWICHES 

Take orange marmalade, pecan nuts and cream cheese in equal 
quantities and after mixing thoroughly spread on thin slices of 
buttered bread. 

RIBBON SANDWICHES 

Cut two slices of white bread and two of brown. Butter three 
and spread with a thick paste made of hard-boiled egg very finely 
chopped and mixed with Mayonnaise dressing. Build the slices 
up one above the other, alternating brown and white, and placing 
the unbuttered slice on top. Before serving, slice down as you 
would a layer cake. 

SWEET SANDWICHES 

Butter thin slices of bread and spread with any kind of fruit 
jelly, jam or marmalade. For variation mix the preserves with 
cream cheese. Currant jelly is especially good in this combination. 

331 



SANDWICHES AND SAVORIES FamnrofFour 

MOCK CRAB SANDWICHES 

Vi cup grated cheese 1 teaspoon anchovy paste 

Vi teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon chopped olives 

Vi teaspoon paprika 1 teaspoon lemon juice 

Vi teaspoon mustard 2 tablespoons butter 

Mix the ingredients to a cream and spread between thin slices 
of graham or white bread. 



EGG AND OLIVE SANDWICHES No. 1 

4 hard-boiled eggs Salt and pepper 

2 tablespoons chopped olives Olive oil and vinegar 

Chop the egg and mix with the olives; season and moisten with 
olive oil and vinegar. Spread between thin slices of buttered 
bread. 

EGG AND OLIVE SANDWICHES No. 2 

Yolks of 3 hard-boiled eggs Salt and paprika 

4 chopped olives 1 teaspoon lemon juice 

1 tablespoon butter 1 teaspoon anchovy essence 

Buttered slices of bread 

Mix the eggs, olives, butter and seasonings to a paste; spread 
between thin slices of bread, preferably round. 

JAPAN SANDWICHES 

Chop raw oysters fine; season with pepper, salt and horse- 
radish. Spread a little on a thin slice of buttered bread; add a 
crisp lettuce leaf and a second slice of bread. 



CAVIAR SANDWICHES 

Remove the crusts from thin sHces of bread; spread with caviar 
mixed with lemon juice; roll each slice and fasten with a tooth- 
pick or serve flat as usual. 

SARDINE SANDWICHES 

Skin and bone the sardines and mash to a paste. Season with 
lemon juice, cayenne pepper and salt, and spread between thin 
slices of bread. 

332 



^L'^S'vVfTo'u, SANDWICHES AND SAVORIES 



Family of Four 



CHEESE FILLING FOR SANDWICHES 

2 tablespoons butter Vi teaspoon mustard 

2 tablespoons flour Salt and paprika 

1 cup milk 1 cup grated cheese 

Melt the butter; stir in the flour; then add the milk gradually 
and let it cook until a thick paste is formed. Take from the fire; 
add the seasoning; work in the grated cheese and set away until 
needed. Except in very warm weather this will keep a week. 

CLUB SANDWICH 

2 slices bread 2 slices chicken breast 
2 leaves lettuce 2 slices bacon 

Mayonnaise dressing 

Toast the bread to a delicate brown and fry the bacon crisp. On 
one slice of toast place lettuce leaves, covering them with Mayon- 
naise; then lay on the pieces of chicken and the bacon; cover 
again with Mayonnaise; put on the second slice of toast; press 
down and cut through the sandwich diagonally. Work as quickly 
as possible so that the toast and bacon may be hot when served. 

COMBINATION SANDWICH 

2 slices whole wheat bread 2 slices Swiss cheese 

2 slices cold boiled ham Butter 

Butter the bread. On one slice lay the slices of cold ham ; then 
lay on the cheese; then the other slice of bread and press down 
firmly. Cut across diagonally and serve. 

CINNAMON TOAST 

Toast thin slices of bread to a delicate brown; butter evenly 
and sprinkle with powdered sugar and cinnamon. Serve with 
afternoon tea. 

EGG TOAST 

1 egg 1 cup milk 

1/4 teaspoon salt 4 sUces bread 

Beat the egg thoroughly and add the salt and milk. Have the 
bread cut in thin slices; dip them in the milk, allowing each to 
absorb some. Brown in a buttered frying pan or on a griddle; 
butter and serve hot with sugar and cinnamon or with syrup. 

333 



SANDWICHES AND SAVORIES vl^^^,%^' 



Family of Four 



CHEESE STRAWS 



Roll out plain or puff-paste until one fourth of an inch thick. 
Spread one half with grated cheese; fold over and roll again. Re- 
peat the process three or four times; then cut into strips and bake. 
Serve with soup or salad. 

SALTED ALMONDS 

Pour boiling watei- on the almonds; cool and remove tHe skins; 
dry thoroughly and brown in a hot oven using a half tablespoon of 
butter or oUve oil (preferably the oil) to each cup of nuts. When 
brown, sprinkle well with salt and spread on paper to dry and cool. 

A still easier way to prepare the nuts is to cook them over the 
fire, using a larger quantity of olive oil. As the oil can be saved 
and used again, this method is not necessarily extravagant. 

SALTED PEANUTS 

Shell and skin freshly roasted peanuts and proceed as in salting 
almonds. 



334 



flf^llfo'fVur SANDWICHES AND SAVORIES 



Family of Four 



335 



SANDWICHES AND SAVORIES FamTol f°o'u? 



336 



CEREALS 



CEREALS 

CEREALS hold an important place !» the diet, ranking first 
among vegetable foods. They are, moreover, easily pre- 
pared, are both palatable and digestible, and are easily preserved 
without deterioration. 

Variety is to be found both in using the dififerent kin>ls of 
cereals and in preparing the common cereals in new ways. Most 
cereals are improved by the addition of a little milk during the 
latter part of the cooking, and most of them are also improved 
by the addition of chopped dates or whole sultana raisins. 

Thoroughness of cooking is a factor which has an important 
bearing upon digestibility; and it is unfortunate that cereals are 
(30 often served for breakfast and hurriedly prepared. They shovld 
wherever possible be cooked over night, and it is for this reason 
that the use of the fireless cooker is to be especially recommended. 

The ready-cooked foods are usually higher in price and not 
necessarily better. Where there is no fireless cooker, however, 
and where the saving of fuel is to be considered, they are not 
necessarily more expensive. 

In justice to the prepared foods it may be said that they are 
on the whole well cooked and palatable and usually reach the 
consumer in clean, fresh condition. They are also frequently 
more tempting to the jaded appetite. 

For cooking cereals by the fireles" method see the chapter on 
"Fireless Cookery." 

OATMEAL PORRIDGE 

As oatmeal is ground in different grades of coarseness, the time 
for cooking varies and it is best to follow the directions given on 
the packages. The meal should be cooked until soft, but should 

339 



PTTWir A T C Planned for a 

\^r/IVn/AijO Family of Four 

not be mushy. Cook in a double boiler the required time. Keep 
covered until done; then remove the cover and let the moisture 
escape. 

OATMEAL WITH CHEESE 

1 cup oatmeal 1 teaspoon salt 

Water 1 tablespoon butter 

1 cup grated cheese 

Cook the oatmeal over night and just before serving add the 
butter and cheese. Stir until the cheese is melted and serve at 
once. 

BAKED APPLE WITH OATMEAL 

Pare and core the apples and fill the core space with left-over 
oatmeal mush. Put the apples in a baking dish; sprinkle with 
sugar; pour a little water into the bottom of the pan and bake in 
a moderate oven until the apples are tender. Serve warm with 
cream for breakfast or limcheon. 

WHEAT CEREALS 

Wheat cereals, like oatmeal, are best cooked by following the 
directions on the package. Most of them are greatly improved 
by the addition of a little milk or by [a few chopped dates or 
whole sultana raisins. 



CORN-MEAL MUSH 

1 cup com meal 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup cold water 1 pint boiling water 

Mis together the corn meal and salt and add the cold water 
gradually, stirring until smooth. Pour this mixture into the 
boiling water and cook in a double boiler from three to five hours. 
Serve hot with cream and sugar. 

FRIED MUSH 

Pour hot corn meal into a square dish that has been rinsed in 
cold water. When the mush is cold cut it into slices one half inch 
thick ; dust with flour and fry a delicate brown. Serve with syrup. 

340 



Planned for a f^VDl? A T Q 

Fainilv of Four K/EjtSJlfJtMj^ 



Family of Four 



BOILED RICE 

1/2 cup rice 2 quarts water 

1 tablespoon salt 

Put the rice in a strainer; place the strainer over a bowl nearly 
full of cold water; rub the rice; lift the strainer from the bowl and 
change the water. Repeat the process until the water in the bowl 
is clear. Have the two quarts of water boiling briskly; add the 
rice and salt gradually so as not to check the ebullition; boil 
twenty minutes or until soft; drain through a colander and place 
the colander over boiling water for ten minutes to steam. Every 
grain will be distinct and tender. 

If desired, the rice may be brought to a boil in a little milk 
irwtead of being steamed, though in this case the grains may not 
remain separate. 

Serve as a vegetable with butter and salt, or as a cereal with 
cream and sugar. 

RICE IN MILK 

IV2 cups hot milk 1/2 cup rice 

Vi teaspoon salt 

Clean the rice as for boiling in water; and cook with the milk 
and salt, adding a few seeded or sultana raisins if desired. Serve 
hot like boiled rice or press into small cups, cool and serve with 
cream and sugar. 

FARINA 

3 tablespoons farina 1 pint boiling water 

1/2 teaspoon salt 

Cook the mixture in a double boiler for about one hour. 

HOMINY 

1 cup hominy 2 tablespoons butter 

2 quarts water 1 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons cream 

Get the unbroken hominy and after careful washing soak it 
twenty-four hours in the water. Cook slowly in the same water 
in a covered vessel for eight hours or until all the water has been 
absorbed by the hominy; add the butter, salt and cream and serve 
as a vegetable or as a cereal with sugar and cream. 

341 



f~'T7"r)Tr A T O Planned lor a 

Ui:.KX!/AJLa FamUy of Four 



342 



CANDY 



CANDY 

CANDY may or may not be "good for one," but every girl 
and woman likes to make it, and the home-made candies 
are usually more wholesome than those that are bought. 

FONDANT 

2 cups granulated sugar 1 cup water 

Vi saltspoon cteam of tartai 

Put the ingredients in a copper or granite saucepan; stir until 
the sugar is dissolved, but no longer. Boil until the mixture makes 
a very soft ball when dropped in cold water. After it has boiled 
a few minutes sugar will adhere to the sides of the kettle: this 
should be washed off as soon as it forms, with the hand first dipped 
in cold water. Pour the mixture slowly on a moist marble slab or 
large platter; let it cool until pressure with the finger leaves a dent 
on the surface. If stirred while too warm or if cooked too long it 
will granulate and must be recooked, adding more water. When 
it will dent work the mass with a wooden spoon or spatula, keep- 
ing the mass in the center as much as possible. Continue to stir 
until creamy; then work with the hands until perfectly smooth. 
Put in a bowl; cover with oiled paper to exclude the air and let 
stand for twenty-four hours. 

Make into balls for cream chocolates and centers of walnut 
creams, date creams, etc., adding flavoring as desired. For cocoa- 
nut creams stir in grated or dried cocoanut. 

QUICK FONDANT 

White of 1 egg Confectioners' sugar 

Flavoring 

Beat the egg very stiff; stir in as much confectioners' sugar as 
the egg will hold; flavor and mold into small balls. 

U5 



r* A WnV Planned for a 

VA±N U J. Familv nf Four 



Family of Four 



CHOCOLATE CREAMS 



Roll fondant into balls; dip them in melted chocolate and stand 
them to dry on waxed paper. 

The necessary utensils are a wire fork and a very small double 
boiler. The chocolate when melted should come nearly to the 
top of the inner boiler. Melt the chocolate; cool to about 80° F.; 
drop a ball of fondant into the chocolate; with a fork push it below 
the surface; remove carefully with the fork. 



CHOCOLATE CREAM MINTS 

Melt fondant over hot water; flavor with oil of peppermint and 
drop from the tip of a spoon on waxed paper. When cool dip in 
melted chocolate as directed under the recipe for Chocolate Creams. 



NOUGAT 

White of 1 egg 1 teaspoon vanilla 

2 tablespoons cold water Confectioners' sugar 

2 pounds chopped nuts 

Beat the egg to a stiff froth; add the water and stir in enough 
sugar to make a stiff paste. Turn out on a molding board well 
dusted with confectioners' sugar, and work the nuts into the paste. 
Roll out to the thickness of one half inch; cut into strips a haK 
inch wide and an inch and a half long and put on waxed paper to 
dry. 

MOLASSES CANDY No. 1 

V2 cup molasses 11/2 tablespoons vinegar 

11/2 cups sugar Vi teaspoon cream of tartar 

1/2 cup boiling water Vi cup butter 
Pinch of soda 

Bring the molasses, sugar, vvater and vinegar to a boil and add 
the cream of tartar. Boil until a little of the mixture becomes 
brittle when dropped in cold water. When nearly done add butter 
and soda and stir constantly. Pour into buttered tins; mark off 
in squares and set aside to harden; or cool slightly and pull, but- 
tering the hands first and adding a few drops of flavoring if desired. 
Pull until the candy is light; roll into sticks and set as^ide to cool. 

346 



Planned for a f* A TVrT^V 

Family of Four ^AiN U 1 

MOLASSES CANDY No. 2 

2 cups molasses 1/2 cup vinegar 

1 cup sugar Butter size of egg 

Put the molasses, sugar and vinegar in a pan and boil until the 
mixture hardens when dropped into cold water. Pour into but- 
tered pans; mark into squares and set aside to harden; or cool 
slightly; butter the hands and pull the candy until it is light. 

CINNAMON CANDY 

1 potind granulated sugar 1 teaspoon vinegar 

1 cup water 12 drops oil of cinnamon 

Boil the mixture until a little of it hardens when dropped in cold 
water; pour into shallow buttered tins and stand them in cold 
water, turning the edge of the candy until it cools. Add the oil of 
cinnamon; pull until white and put in a cool place to harden. 
When cold pack in an airtight vessel and leave over night. 

BUTTER SCOTCH 

1 cup sugar V2 cup butter 

1 cup molasses 2 tablespoons vinegar 

1 teaspoon soda 

Boil all the ingredients together until the syrup will snap when 
tested in cold water. Pour into buttered tins and when nearly 
cold cut into small squares and wrap each in paraflBn paper. 

PmOCHE 

3 cups light brown sugar Vz cup butter 

1 cup Tnilfc- 1 cup nut meats 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Mix the sugar and milk over the fire; when hot add the butter; 
boil and stir until the mixture forms a soft baU when dropped in 
cold water. Add nuts and flavoring and beat until the sugar begins 
to granulate. Pour into buttered tins; mark in squares and set 
aside to cool. , 

PEANUT BRITTLE 
1 quart roasted peanuts 1 pound granulated sugar 

Shell the peanuts; remove the skins and roll them or run them 
through the meat chopper. Melt the sugar over the fire; add the 

347 



r" A "IVrT^V Planned ror a 

L-AiN U I Family of Four 

peanuts; mix and turn out on a greased marble slab or large 
greased tin. Roll quickly with an ordinary rolling pin that has 
been well greased; cut into squares and break apart. 

PRALINES 

2 cups powdered sugar 14 cup cream 

1 cup maple syrup 2 cups nut meats 

Boil the sugar, maple syrup and cream together until a little 
dropped in cold water will form a soft ball. Remove from fire; 
beat till creamy; add the nuts and drop by spoonfuls on buttered 
paper or tins. 

CHOCOLATE FUDGE 

I cups granulated sugar Butter size of egg 

V2 cup milk 2 ounces unsweetened chocolate 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Boil the mixture until it will make a soft ball when dropped in 
water. Remove from the fire; beat until thick, adding the vanilla 
while beating. Pour into buttered pans ; mark in squares and set 
aside to cool. 

COCOA FUDGE 

Make the same as chocolate fudge, substituting three table- 
spoons of cocoa for the two ounces of chocolate. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS 

1 pound sugar i/^ cup millr 

6 tablespoons syrup molasses Butter size of walnut 

2 ounces chocolate 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Boil together the sugar, molasses, chocolate and milk until the 
mixture hardens when dropped in cold water. When nearly done 
add the butter; flavor after the candy is taken from the fire. 

COCOANUT BUTTER SCOTCH 

1/2 cup shredded cocoanut 3 ounces butter 

'/2 pound brown sugar 3 teaspoons water 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Put the sugar, butter and water into a saucepan; boil for teD 
minutes, stirring only occasionally. Stir in the cocoanut; test by 



Planned for a PA TVr'nV 

Family of Four \yAnU I. 

dropping a spoonful in cold water. If the mixture hardens re- 
move from fire; add flavoring; pour into buttered tins; mark off 
in squares and stand away to harden. 

CREAM PEPPERMINTS 

2 cups sugar 9 tablespoons water 

Pinch of cream of tartar 10 droDS oil of peppermint 

Put the sugar, cream of tartar and water in a gxanite saucepan 
and stir imtil the sugar is dissolved. Boil ten minutes; remove 
from fire; add peppermint and beat until the mixture thickens; 
then drop from a spoon on buttered paper. 

MEXICAN CARAMELS 

2 cups granulated sugar 1 cup brown sugar 

11/2 cups milk or cream 

Melt one cup of granulated sugar but do not let it brown; when 
a syrup add the milk or cream, then the remainder of the sugar, 
stirring constantly. Cook xmtil it forms a solid ball when dropped 
in cold water. Pour out into a shallow pan, the bottom of which 
has been well greased with butter; mark off in squares and set 
aside to cool. 

POP-CORN BALLS 

Boil syrup molasses for twenty-five or thirty minutes; stir into 
it corn that has been carefully popped; pour out on buttered tins 
and with greased hands form into balls. 

Puffed wheat and rice may be made into balls in the same way. 

FRUITS GLACfi 

2 cups sugar 1 cup water 

Washed fruit 

Boil the sugar and water until the syrup becomes brittle when 
dropped in cold water. Dip the fruit in the syrup and set in a cool 
place. 

NUTS GLACi; 

Follow the recipe for fruits glac^. Put each nut on a long pin; 
dip it carefully and lay on oiled paper. 

"" 23 849 



/^ A ATTkV Planned for a 

CAiN U I Family of Four 

CANDIED LEMON AND ORANGE PEEL 

Lemon and orange peel if saved can be put to excellent use. 
Take out the greater portion of the white inside; throw the rinds 
into boiling water and simmer gently for twenty minutes. Drain, 
weigh and take a pound of sugar to every pound of peel. Put a 
layer of sugar and a layer of fruit into the preserving kettle; stand 
it over a slow fire until the sugar melts. When melted, cook 
slowly imtil the rinua are transparent. Lift them out; drain them 
and when nearly dry roll in granulated sugar. 

MARSHMALLOWS 

4 ounces pulverized gum arabic 1 cup pulverized sugar 

1 cup cold water Pinch of salt 

Flavoring to taste 

Soak the gum arabic in the water for two hours ; put in a double 
boiler; bring slowly to the boiling point and when the gum is dis- 
solved strain through coarse muslin. Return to the double boiler 
with the sugar and stir long and steadily until the mixture is stiff 
and white. Remove from the fire; beat hard for a minute; flavor 
to taste and beat for a minute more. Pour into tins well dusted 
with cornstarch, cut into squares and roll in cornstarch and sugar. 

DIVINITY 

6 tablespoons hot water White of 1 egg 

2 cups brown sugar 1 ounce walnut meats 

1 ounce chopped raisins 

Boil together the first two ingredients until a little of the mix- 
ture forms a soft ball when dropped into cold water. Beat the 
white of the eggs as stiff as possible; add walnuts and raisins and 
pour the syrup over the eggs, beating constantly. When the mix- 
ture will stand alone drop from a teaspoon upon paraffin paper. 

ORANGE PASTE 

4 level tablespoons gelatine 1 orange 

iVs cups water 1 lemon 

2 cups granulated sugar Confectioners' sugar 
Cornstarch 

Soak the gelatine in half of the water; bring the sugar to a boil 
in the other half and combine the two. Boil slowly but steadily 

350 



Planned for a PA IMTi V 

Family of Four V^Ai^ U X 

for twenty minutes; add the grated rind of the orange and the 
juice of lemon and orange, making a half cup in all. Rinse a tin in 
cold water; pour in the mixture to the depth of one inch. When 
the paste is firmly set immerse the mold in warm water; turn out 
the paste; cut in cubes and roll in a mixture of confectioners' sugar 
and cornstarch. 

The paste may be varied by using different fruit juices, flavor- 
ing and coloring. 

KARO CANDY 

Vz cup cream 1% cups brown sugar 

1 cup Karo syrup 

Boil together the cream, syrup and sugar. Test by dropping a 
little in cold water, and when almost done add the butter and wal- 
nuts. Remove from fire; beat until creamy; empty into a but- 
tered pan; mark off in squares and set aside to cool. 

COCOANUT CONES 

2 tablespoons cornstarch 1 cup shredded cocoanut 
V4 cup sugar White of 1 egg 

Mix the sugar and cornstarch together; add the cocoanut and 
the white of egg beaten to a stiff froth. Form into small cones 
and lay at equal distances on stiff paper or on a greased baking tin. 
Bake in a slow oven until firm. 

HOARHOUND CANDY 

Hoarhound 2 pounds sugar 

2 cups boiling water White of 1 egg 

Pour the water on as much hoarllound as it will cover; steep it 
on a slow fire for several hours; then strain and put the same water 
on a fresh supply of hoarhound and steep as before. Add enough 
boiling water to make a full pint; strain and when cold add the 
beaten white of egg and the sugar. Boil it slowly until thick, re- 
moving the scum that rises. Test by dropping from a spoon into 
cold water: when it hardens quickly it is done. Pour into buttered 
tins; mark off in small squares and set aside to cool. When cold 
break it up and put it in glass jars. 



351 



Planned for a 



/^ A TVTTvV Flannefl tor a 

^AIM iJ I Family of Four 



352 



Planned for A f^ATSlTjV 

Family of Four V^AXl u X 



r* \ TVTTkV Planned tor i 

(./AiN U 1 Family of Four 



354 



rauiT 



FRurr 

FROM tliose who advocate a diet of only fruit and nuts to 
those who take time to enjoy three square meals a day, 
people are coming more and more to reaUze the importance of 
fruit in the daily meal. In general it may be said that fruits 
are wholesome, palatable and attractive additions to the menu. 
Fresh fruits, of course, are largely composed of water; but dried 
fruits and many preserves are much more concentrated, com- 
paring favorably with cereals and dried vegetable foods. Fruits 
contain carbohydrates, considerable mineral matter and acid, 
and when eaten raw do much to stimidate a shiggish intestine. 

The methods of preparing include drying or evaporating, 
baking, boiling and stewing. Many fruits, too, are used in the 
preparation of puddings and other dishes and are made into 
jellies, preserves, beverages and ices. Even persons with delicate 
stomachs who find raw fruit indigestible can usually take it when 
properly prepared in some way. 

Several methods of preparing fruit for the table will be dis- 
cussed in this chapter and others will be found in the chapters 
on "Appetizers," "Puddings and Desserts," "Salads" and 
"Canning and Preserving." ^ 

BAKED APPLES 

Wash and core and if desired pare the apples. Place them in 
a shallow baking dish and fill the cavities with sugar, sugar and 
spice, sugar and seeded raisins, or sugar and chopped nuts. 
Sprinkle sugar and cinnamon over the apples; cover the bottom 
of the pan with water and bake about thirty minutes or until 
tender. Serve with cream or with lemop or wine sauce. 

APPLE SAUCE 
See chapter on "Sauces." 

357 



TSTJ TTTT* Planned /or a 

rKUll Family of Four 



FRIED APPLES 

Cut slices a half inch thick across the apple, removmg neither 
skin nor core; or cut the apples in quarters, removing both skin 
and core. Saute them in butter or drippings until tender; serve 
with crisp bacon. 

STEWED PEACHES 

Pare and quarter the peaches, discarding the stones. Bring 
to the boiling point one cup of sugar and one cup of water; cook 
four minutes; add the peaches and cook until tender. 

Pears, plums and apricots may be cooked in the same way, 
though the plums may require more sugar. 

BAKED PEACHES 

Plunge the peaches into boiling water to loosen the sldns. 
Remove the skins; cut the peaches in half, discarding the stones, 
and lay them, cut side up, in a shallow baking dish. Fill the 
cavities with butter and sugar, a few drops of lemon juice and a 
sprinkling of cinnamon or nutmeg. Bake twenty minutes and 
serve on buttered toast or crackers. 

BAKED PEARS 

Wash the pears, and unless they are small quarter and core 
them. Place them in a deep pudding dish, well sprinkled with 
sugar. Add water sufficient to keep them from burning; cover 
and bake for two or three hours in a slow oven. If desired, a 
piece of stick cinnamon may be put in the pan with the pears; 
this will improve the flavor. 

BAKED QUINCES 

Wash, quarter, core and pare the quinces. Place them, cut 
side up, in a shallow baking dish, filling the cavities with sugar, 
mixed with a little grated lemon rind or lemon juice. Cover 
the bottom of the dish with water and bake in a moderate oven 
until soft, basting frequently. Serve hot with butter and sugar. 

STEWED QUINCES 

Wash the quinces, pare and core them and cut them into 
eighths. Cover with cold water and let them come slowly to a 

358 



flanned for a TTPTTTT 

Family o( Four T J\. U 1 J. 

boil, removing the scum that rises. When nearly soft add one 
cup of sugar for every pint of fruit and one cup of apples, pared 
and cut into eighths. Boil until both apples and quinces are 
tender. 

STEWED RHUBARB 

Select the strawberry rhubarb in preference to the white; 
wash it, and unless it is very old, do not peel it. Simply remove 
the ends and cut the stalk into small pieces. Pour boUing water 
on the rhubarb; drain and put it in a saucepan over the fire, 
covering it well with sugar and adding only enough water to keep 
it from burning. Cook until soft but not until the pieces have 
lost their identity. The quantity of sugar will have to be varied 
according to the age of the rhubarb. 

STEWED BLACKBERRIES 

Wash and stem the blackberries; add a little water and stew 
until tender. Just before they are done sweeten to taste. 

Some cooks thicken the juice with a little cornstarch thinned in 
water. If this is done the blackberries must boil for an extra 
minute or two until the cornstarch is cooked. 

STEWED RASPBERRIES 
Follow the recipe for Stewed Blackberries. 

STEWED CHERRIES 

Select pie cherries, preferably the morello cherries; stone them 
or not as desired and follow the directions for Stewed Black- 
berries. 

STEWED CRANBERRIES 

See chapter on "Sauces." 

DRIED FRUITS 

To cook dried fruits thoroughly they should after careful wash- 
ing be soaked over night. Next morning put them over the fire 
in the water in which they have been soaked; bring to a boil; 
then simmer slowly until the fruit is thoroughly cooked but not 
broken. Sweeten to taste. Very much less sugar will be needed 
than for fresh fruit. 

359 



17DTTTT Planned for a 

JKUll Family of Four 

If desired cook a little stick cinnamon or other spice with the 
fruit. Pears, which are apt to be insipid, are especially improved 
by this addition. 

LEMON BUTTER No. 1 

V2 cup sugar 1 lemon 

1 ounce butter 1 egg 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream and add the beaten egg; 
then add the lemon, juice and rind, and stir over hot water until 
the mixture thickens. Remove from fire and stir until cool. 

LEMON BUTTER No. 2 

14 cup sugar 1 teaspoon butter 

V2 tablespoon cornstarch Vz cup water 

1 lemon 1 egg 

Mix the sugar and cornstarch; add the juice and rind of the 
lemon and the butter; then add the water and cook over hot 
water until the cornstarch clarifies. Pour the mixture on the 
beaten egg,: return to the fire and stir until it thickens. 



360 



PUnnad lor a FRUIT 

Family of Four f jvwxa 



3&i 



Planned tor a 



■Bi»>TTT'T> I'lannea ror a 

r K U 1 1 Family of Four 



362 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 

FRESH fruit is usually more palatable and refreshing than 
cooked fruit, but it is on the whole less digestible and, of 
course, not always obtainable. The importance of canning and 
preserving is therefore obvious. Canned goods of all sorts can 
be purchased, but they are usually inferior to the home-prepared 
foods and the price of the better ones is so high as to be almost 
prohibitive. 

Many housewives refuse to can and preserve because they 
always have "bad luck"; but "bad luck" in most cases means 
only bad management. If proper care is taken no harm can 
possibly befall the foods. 

In canning fruits there are several points to remember. First, 
the preserving kettle should be porcelain-lined, and no iron or 
tin utensils should be used, as the fruit acids attack these metals 
and so give a bad color and metallic taste to the food. Second, 
all fruits should, if possible, be freshly picked, and it is better 
to have them under-ripe than over-ripe, as the fermentative stage 
follows closely upon the perfectly ripe stage. Third, in canning 
fruits the product is more satisfactory if heated gradually to the 
boiling point and then cooked the given time. 

Scrupulous cleanliness and eternal vigilance are the price of 
success. The kitchen should be freshly swept and dusted so that 
there may be as few mold spores as possible floating in the air; 
the fruit should be carefully gone over and bruised or gnarled 
portions removed; and all jars and utensils should be thoroughly 
sterilized. Saucepans, spoons, jars, covers, straining bag, etc., 
should be put on the fire in cold water, heated gradually and 
boiled for ten or fifteen minutes. The jars must be taken one 
24 365 



CANNING AND PRESERVING FamuTofFJu? 

at a time from the boiling water, and not until the moment each 
is to be filled. 

Never use old rubbers or lids that are bent and be sure that 
lids are boiled and rubbers dipped in boiling water one at a time 
just before using.. 

Fruit must be carefully picked and washed, and all stems 
removed, and only as much as can be cooked while it still retains 
its color and crispness should be prepared. If practicable pare the 
fruit with a silver knife. Peaches, plums and tomatoes may be 
readily skinned after a three-minute plunge in boiling water. 
Where fruit like quinces and hard pears must be first boiled in 
clear water, the fruit should be dropped in cold water made sHghtly 
acid with lemon to keep the fruit from discoloring. 

When fruit is preserved with a large amount of sugar (a pound 
of sugar to a pound of fruit) it does not need to be sealed in air- 
tight jars; because bacteria do not readily form in the thick, 
sugary syrup. It is, however, best kept in small sealed jars, since 
molds are very likely to form. 

Under no circumstances should preserving powders be used. 
In most cases they are injurious, and in any case are the resort 
of the cook who is too lazy to take the proper precautions. 

CANNING FRUIT IN A WATER BATH 

Canned fruits may be cooked over the fire according to the 
recipes that follow; but they are, on the whole, very much better 
if cooked in a water bath. Prepare fruit and syrup as for cook- 
ing in a preserving kettle and cook the syrup ten minutes. Steril- 
ize the jars and utensils; fill the jars with fruit; then pour in 
enough syrup to fill the jars completely. Run the blade of a 
silver-pointed knife around the inside of the jar and put the covers 
on loosely. 

Have a wooden rack, slats, or straw in the bottom of a wash- 
boiler; put in enough warm water to come to about four inches 
above the rack; place the filled jars in the boiler, being careful 
not to let them touch. Pack clean white rags or cotton rope 
between and around the jars to prevent their striking one another 
when the water begins to boil. Cover the boiler and let the fruit 

366 



"mSy^ofTo^r CANNING AND PRESERVING 

cook ten minutes from the time the surrounding water begins to 
boil. 

Draw the boiler aside and remove the cover. When the steam 
passes off, lift out one jar at a time and place it in a pan of boiling 
water beside the boiler; fill to overflowing with boiling syrup; 
wipe the rim of the jar with a cloth wrung from boiling water; 
put on rubbers and cover quickly; stand the jar upside down and 
protected from drafts, until cool; then tighten the covers if screw 
covers are used, and wipe off the jars with a wet cloth. Paste 
on labels and put the jars on shelves in a cool, dark closet. 

CANNING IN THE PRESERVING KETTLE 

Canning in the preserving kettle is less satisfactory; but is 
sometimes considered easier, especially for small fruits. Cook 
the fruit according to the directions and see that all jars, covers 
and utensils are carefully sterilized. When ready to put the fruit 
in the jars, put a broad skimmer under one, lift it and drain off 
the water. Set it in a shallow pan of boihng water or wrap it 
well in a heavy towel wrung out of boiling water; fill to over- 
flowing with the fruit and slip a silver-plated knife around the 
inside of the jar to make sure that fruit and juice are solidly 
packed. -Wipe the rim of the jar; dip the rubber ring in boiling 
water, place it on the jar; cover and remove the jar, placing it 
upside down on a board, well out of drafts until cool. Then 
tighten the covers, if screw covers are used; wipe the jars with 
a wet cloth, and stand on shelves in a cool, dark closet. 

The success of canning depends upon absolute sterilization and 
not upon the amount of sugar or cooking. Any proportion of 
sugar may be used, or fruit may be canned without the addition 
of any sugar. Juicy fruits, such as berries and cherries, require 
little or no water. 

CANNED RASPBERRIES 

6 quarts berries 1 quart sugar 

Put one quart of the fruit in the preserving kettle; heat slowly, 
crushing with a wooden potato masher; strain and press through 
a fine sieve. Return the juice and pulp to the kettle; add the 
sugar; stir until dissolved; then add the remaining quarts of 
berries. Boil ten minutes, counting from the time they begin to 
boil. Skim well while boiling, and put into jars as directed. 

367 



CANNING AND PRESERVING FamTtrfFou'. 

CANNED BLACKBERRIES 

Follow the recipe for raspberries. 

RASPBERRIES AND CURRANTS 

5 quarts raspberries 3 pints currants 

5 cups sugar 

Heat, crush and press the currants through a sieve as directed 
in the recipe for raspberries; add the sugar and when the syrup 
begins to boil add the raspberries. Proceed as with raspberries. 

CANNED CURRANTS 

6 quarts currants 2 quarts sugar 

Follow the recipe for raspberries. 

CANNED BLUEBERRIES 

6 quarts berries 1 pint sugar 

1 cup water 

Put berries, sugar and water in the preserving kettle; bring 
to a boil slowly and cook for fifteen minutes. 

CANNED CHERRIES 

6 quarts cherries 3 pints sugar 

1/2 pint water 

Measure the cherries after the stems have been removed; 
stone them or not, as desired. Put the sugar and water in the 
preserving kettle and stir until the sugar is dissolved. Add the 
cherries; bring slowly to a boil and cook ten minutes. 

CANNED GRAPES 

6 quarts grapes 1 quart sugar 

V2 cup water 

Squeeze the pulp out of the skins; cook for five minutes; rub 
through a sieve fine enough to retain the seeds; return to the 
preserving kettle with the water and skins; bring slowly to the 
boiling point, removing the scum. Cook for fifteen minutes. 

368 



FamiiyofFou, CANNING AND PRESERVING 

CANNED RHUBARB 

Wash the rhubarb thoroughly in pure water; cut it into pieces 
And pack it in sterihzed jars. Cover with cold water; let it stand 
ten minutes; pour o£F the water; fill again to overflowing with 
fresh cold water; seal with sterilized rubber rings and covers, and 
set away in a cool, dark place. 



CANNED GOOSEBERRIES 

6 quarts berries 3 pints sugar 

1 pint water 

Dissolve the sugar in the water, using three pints of sugar if 
the gooseberries are green and only half the quantity if they are 
ripe. Add the fruit and cook fifteen minutes. 

Green gooseberries may also be canned like rhubarb without 
sugar and sweetened when used. 



CANNED PLUMS 

4 quarts plums 1 quart sugar 

1 cup water 

Wash, drain and prick the plums. Make a syrup of the sugar 
and water; put part of the fruit in the boiling syrup; cook five 
minutes; fill and seal the jars. Put more fruit in the syrup; 
remove and continue the process imtil all the fruit has been 
cooked. 

CANNED PEACHES 

8 quarts peaches 1 quart sugar 

3 quarts water 

Make a syrup of the sugar and water; bring to a boil; skim it 
and draw the kettle aside where the syrup will keep hot but not 
boil. 

Pare the peaches, cutting them in half or not as desired. If 
in half leave one or two whole peaches for every jar, as the kernel 
improves the flavor. Put a layer of fruit in ihe kettle; when it 
begins to boil skim carefully; boil gently for ten minutes; put 
in jars and seal. Then cook more of the fruit in similar feishion. 
If the fruit is not fully ripe it may require a longer time to cook. 

369 



CANNING AND PRESER VING Fa'X'^fFJur 

CAITNED PEARS 
Follow the recipe for canning peaches, 

CANNED CRAB APPLES 

3 quarts apples 3 cups sugar 

1 quart water 

Boil the syrup and skim it; add the fniit and cook gently until 
tender. It will take from twenty to fifty minutes, according to 
the kind of apple. 

CANNED QUINCES 

2 quarts quinces 3 cups sugar 

1 quart water 

Wash and drain the quinces; pare, quarter and core them and 
drop the pieces into cold water to which a little lemon juice has 
been added. Put the fruit over the fire with cold water to cover 
it; heat slowly and simmer gently until the fruit is tender. With 
a silver fork remove each piece as soon as it is tender and drain 
them on a platter. Strain the water in which the fruit was cooked; 
put one quart of it in the kettle vnth the sugar; bring to a boil 
and skim. Add the cooked fruit and boil gently for about twenty 
minutes. 

CANNED PmEAPPLE 

Select ripe fruit; pare and remove the eyes: slice them in half- 
inch slices and cut each slice into quarters. Fill the jars with 
fruit, v.-ithin an inch of the top. Make a cold syrup of sugar and 
water in the proportion of a cup of sugar to a pint of water; fill 
the jars with this up to the top and boil hard for three hours in 
a water bath. See directions for canning by this method on a 
previous page. 

CANNING VEGETABLES 

In canning vegetables the same precautions must be observed 
as in canning fruit and it is safer to use jars that have either glass 
or metal tops without porcelain lining. Corn should be pressed 
or cut from the cob and packed at once into jars. Stand the jars 
on a rack in a boiler; adjust the rubbers and lay the covers on, 
but do not fasten them. Pour water into the boiler until it 
reaches about four inches above the rack; cover the boiler and 

37r 



FamSfofVur CANNING AND PRESERVING 

boil continuously for four hours. Lift one jar at a time and fasten 
on the Ud without removing it. When the jars are cold put them 
on a shelf in a cool, dark place. 

Peas may be canned in the same way, but each jar must be 
filled with water; string beans require cooking for orily one hour 
and a half, but the jar manipulation is the same. 



CANNED TOMATOES 

Wash the tomatoes and plunge them in boiling water for five 
minutes. Pare and cut them into small pieces; put them in the 
preserving kettle over the fire and heat slowly, stirring frequently 
to prevent their sticking, and removing the scum that rises. Boil 
for thirty minutes, counting from the time the whole mass begins 
to boil. Put in sterilized jars and seal. 



CANNED MUSHROOMS 

Stem the mushrooms and wash them carefully, but do not 
peel them. Pack them closely in glass jars; adjust the rubbers 
and lay the lids on loosely. Stand the jars in a wash-boiler on 
a rack or straw and pom* in water to come about four inches 
above the rack. Cover the boiler; bring the water to the boiling 
point and boil continuously for one hour and a half. By this 
time the mushrooms will have wilted down; so fill two jars by 
means of a third; cover them and put them back in the boiler. 
Boil for thirty minutes; fill the jars to overflowing with boiling 
water and quickly cover. 



PRESERVING FRUIT 

Some fruits, such as strawberries, sour cherries, sour plums, 
etc., are better preserved with a large amount of sugar than 
simply canned. They are richer, however, and cannot be eaten 
in such abundance as canned fruits. 

A thick coating of paraffin makes a good cover, but not quite 
so good as paper cut the proper size and dipped in alcohol or 
brandy, because 'he spirits destroy any mold spores that may 
happen to rest c ^ the top. Paraffin poiu-ed on top of the paper, 
however, will help to insure preservation, 

371 



CANNING AND PRESERVING Fam'l?v°o1 Four 



Family of Four 



STRAWBERRIES IN THE SUN 

2 pounds berries 2 pounds sugar 

% cup water 

Put the syrup in the preserving kettle; bring it to a boil and 
cook for about ten minutes, or until it begins to thicken. Add 
the berries; cook for ten minutes and pour them out in shallow 
dishes or meat platters. Cover with sheets of glass, allowing a 
little air for ventilation; place in the sun until the juice is thiclj 
and syrupy. This will take two days or more, but the rich color 
and delicious flavor of the fruit will fully repay the effort expended. 
Put into small jars or tumblers and cover according to directions. 

PRESERVED STRAWBERRIES 

1 pint strawberries 1 pint sugar 

1/2 cup water 

Unless strawberries are cooked in the sun they should be pre- 
pared only in small quantities, or they will be dark and unpalat- 
able. If the following directions are carefully observed the straw- 
berries win be plump and of a rich red color. 

Bring the sugar and water to a boil; add the strawberries and 
cook for ten minutes. Remove the berries carefully with a skim- 
mer and cook the syrup until it is of the consistency of jelly. 
Return the berries to the syrup; bring all to a boil and when cool 
put in glass tumblers. 

STRAWBERRIES AND PINEAPPLE 

Follow the recipe for Preserved Strawberries, using two thirds 
pineapple and one third strawberries. 

PRESERVED CHERRIES 

Pie cherries are best for preserving. Follow either of the 
recipes for strawberries. 

PRESERVED PLUMS OR GREEN GAGES 

2 quarts plums or gages 1 quart sugar 

1 cup water 

Prick the fruit; put it in a preserving kettle, cover well with 
water; boil five minutes and drain. Bring the sugar and water 

372 



F'amSyVfVur CANNING AISD PRKSERVING 

to a boil; boil five minutes and skim. Add the plums or green 
gages; cook for twenty minutes; put into sterilized jars and seal. 

CHERRY CONSERVE 

31^ pounds cherries 14 pound seeded raisins 

21/2 pounds sugar 3 oranges 

Select large red cherries; stone them and cook for fifteen 
minutes. Heat the sugar in the oven; add it to the cherries; 
also the raisins and the juice and pulp of the oranges. Cook 
until the mixture is as thick as marmalade. Turn into sterilized 
glasses and seal. 

PRESERVED PINEAPPLE 

1 pineapple % weight in sugar 

1 cup water 

Peel the pineapple and put it through the meat chopper. Weigh 
the fruit and add three fourths of the weight in sugar. Bring 
slowly to a boil and simmer for about twenty minutes, or until 
the consistency of marmalade. 

MARMALADES 

Marmalade may be made of almost any fruits. If berries a;re 
used, press them through a sieve to remove seeds; if large fruit,' 
pare, quarter and core it. Meastue the fruit and sugar, allowing 
one pint of sugar to every quart of fruit. Rinse the preserving 
kettle in cold water; put in alternate layers of fruit and sugar, 
making the first layer of fruit. Heat slowly, stirring to prevent 
the fruit from sticking. Cook for about two hours; put in small 
sterilized jars. 

GRAPE-FRUIT MARMALADE 

6 grapefruit Sugar and water 

Wash the fruit; remove the skin and cut it into short thin 
strips or rim it through the chopper. Then cut the fruit into 
small pieces, discarding the seeds. Weigh the skin and pulp 
and to each pound add two pints of water. Let stand over 
night; then boil the fruit in the same water until it is tender. 
Remove from the fire; measure carefully; and to each pint of 
fruit and juice add one and a quarter pounds of sugar. Return 
to the fire and boil until the fruit is transparent and the juice a 
rich syrup. 

373 



CANNING AND PRESERVING FamTo^f Four 

ORANGE MARMALADE 

1 dozen oranges 1/2 dozen lemons 

Sugar and water 

Select fruit that is firm and not too ripe. Omit the lemons if 
preferred. With a sharp knife slice the fruit very thin, throwing 
away the ends and removing the seeds. Weigh, and to each 
pound of fruit add two pints of cold water. Let this stand over 
night; then boil the fruit in the same water until it is tender. 
Remove from the fire; weigh again; and to each pound of fruit 
and hquid add one pound of sugar. Boil until the fruit is trans- 
parent and the juice a rich syrup. 

SPICED CURRANTS 

5 pounds currants 2 tablespoons cinnamon 

4 pounds brown sugar 2 tablespoons cloves 

1 pint vinegar 

Wash the currants and remove the stems. Place them with 
the other ingredients in a preserving kettle and boil gently for 
two hours. This makes five pint cans. 

PRESERVED YELLOW TOMATOES 

4 poimds small yellow tomatoes V2 cup boiling water 

3 pounds sugar juice and rind of 1 lemon 

Wash and dry the tomatoes and prick each one in five or six 
places. Stir the sugar in the water until dissolved; add the 
tomatoes and cook until clear. When half done add the lemon 
juice and the rind sliced very thin. When the fruit is clear, 
remove it with a skimmer; put in small jars, filhng them two- 
thirds full. Boil the syrup fast for a few minutes longer or until 
thick and syrupy; fill up the jars; cover with a cloth until the 
next day; then cover closely and stand away in a cool place. 

RAISIN COMPOTE 

3 navel oranges 3 pints ciurants 

11/2 pounds seeded raisins 3 cups cold water 

3 cups sugar 

Prepare the oranges as for marmalade and let them soak over 
night in the water. In the morning pick and wash the currants 

374 



F!.ml]tVf%„1., CANNING AND PRESERVING 



Family of Four 



and add them with the washed raisms and sugar to the oranges; 
boil hard for about two hours and put in glass jars, closing them 
while hot. Serve with meat. 



SPICED PEARS 

4 pounds fruit 14 ounce whole allspice 

3 pounds sugar 1/2 ounce whole cloves 

1 pint vinegar 1/2 stick cinnamon 

Tie the spices in a small cheesecloth bag; boil ten minutes with 
the vinegar and sugar. Skim, add fruit and cook until tender. 
Remove the fruit; boil down the sugar and vinegar until syrupy; 
pour over the fruit in jars and seal. 

Peaches, grapes, plums, cantaloup, quinces, watermelon rind 
and cucumbers may be prepared in the same way. 



PICKLED CHERRIES 

Make a syrup in the proportion of one pound of sugar to one 
pint of vinegar. Wash and stem the cherries; pack them into 
sterilized jars; put the jars in a wash-boiler as directed under 
"Canning Fruit in a Water Bath" and surround with cold water. 
Let the water come to a boU; remove the jars and seal. 

The morello cherries are most satisfactory for pickling, and 
ran be used in many places instead of maraschino cherries for 
decorating and flavoring. 

CITRON PRESERVE 

6 pounds citron rind IV2 quarts water 

6 pounds sugar 4 lemons 

^^ pound ginger root 

Peel and cut the rind into pieces of uniform size, rejecting all 
the seeds. Tie the ginger root in a piece of muslin so that it can be 
readily removed. Put the sugar, water, lemon juice and ginger 
in a kettle; stir until the sugar is dissolved and the syrup clear. 
Remove any scum that rises and take out the bag of ginger. Add 
the citron and cook until it is clear but not soft enough to fall 
apart. Pour into sterilized jars and seal while hot. 

The ginger may be omitted if the flavor of ginger is not 
liked. 

375 



CANNING AND PRESERVING F^^Sy^tuJ 

APPLE BUTTER 

5 quarts apple pulp 1 teaspoon ground cloves 

10 quarts new sweet cider 1 teaspoon ground allspice 

Brown sugar 1 teaspoon ground cinnamon 

The apples should be tart and the cider not more than two 
days old. Boil the cider down one half before measuring; put 
the pared and cored apples through a fruit press; measure them 
and add to the cider. Cook slowly, stirring frequently, and when 
thel)utter begins to thicken sweeten to taste with brown sugar. 
Continue cooking until of the consistency of soft jam; pack while 
hot in sterilized jars or glasses and keep in a cool place. 

PEACH BUTTER 

4 pounds peaches 2 poimds sugar 

Select ripe peaches and peel and stone them before weighing. 
Cut them in pieces and put them through a fruit press. Put 
over the fire in a porcelain kettle and cook slowly until of the 
consistency of marmalade, stirring occasionally to prevent stick- 
ing. Add the sugar; stir until dissolved; coolc rapidlj' for fifteen 
minutes, then place the kettle on the back part of the stove and 
keep warm until the butter is of the desired consistency. Pack 
in jars or tumblers. 

TUTTI-FRUTTI 

Preserve the various fruits as they come in season, following 
the recipe for Preserved Strawberries on page 372, and sealing in 
separate jars. \Mien the desired number of fruits have been 
preserved, empty all into the preserving kettle; mix well; bring 
to a boil and when cool put into glass jars or tumblers. Pineapple, 
cherries, peaches, apricots, white grapes and the berries are the 
best fruits to use. 

JELLY-MAKING 

To be successful in jelly-making it is necessary to understand 
a few of the simple underlying principles. The making of jelly 
is possible through the presence in the fruit of pectin, a carbo- 
hydrate, somewhat similar in its properties to starch. This 
element exists in largest quantities in the following fruits: cur- 
rant, apple, quince, grape, blackberry and raspberry; so that 
these fruits are preferred for jelly-making. Moreover, the pec- 

376 



"mUy''of°Four CANNING AND PRESERVING 

tin is at its best when the fruit is just ripe or a little under-ripe. 
Last, it must be remembered that if the juice ferments or if the 
cooking of the jelly is continued too long, the pectin undergoes a 
change and loses its power of gelatinizing. 

After insuring the presence of the pectin, the matter of next 
importance is to add the right quantity of sugar. The rule is to 
measure the juice and add an equal amount of sugar; but the 
rule must be followed with discretion. If the fruit contains an 
unusual percentage of sugar, less sugar should be added; if it 
is less sweet than usual, more should be added to make up the 
deficiency. The sugar will dissolve more quickly if first heated 
in a moderate oven, and will then in no way interfere with the 
cooking. 

Jelly should be put into glasses that have been thoroughly 
sterilized and covered according to the directions given under 
"Preserving Fruit." It should, however, stand twenty-four hours 
before being covered. If possible lay a sheet of glass over the 
tumblers and stand them in a sunny window. 

APPLE JELLY 

Wash the apples; remove stem and blossom ends and cut into 
quarters. Put them in a preserving kettle, adding enough cold 
water to come nearly to the top of the apples. Cover and cook 
gently until the apples are soft and clear. Mash the apples and 
drain them through a sieve in which two thicknesses of cheese- 
cloth have been laid or through a jelly bag. Avoid squeezing the 
bag or the jelly will be clouded. Boil twenty minutes and add 
the heated sugar, allowing two cups or one poimd to every pint 
of juice. Boil five minutes; skim, and test by putting a teaspoon 
of juice in a cool saucer. If it jellies at once, remove from the 
fire and pour into sterilized glasses. 

QUINCE JELLY 

Follow the recipe for Apple Jelly, using part apples if desired, 
and saving the better parts of the fruit for canning. 

MINT JELLY 

Follow the recipe for Apple Jelly, adding oil of peppermint to 
flavor. 

377 



CANNING AND PRESERVING Fa''X°olFour 

CURRANT JELLY 

Wash and pick the currants, but do not remove the stems. 
Put them in the preserving kettle, crushing a few in the bottom 
first; heat slowly, stirring frequently. When the currants are 
hot, mash them with a potato masher and let them drip the same 
as the apples for apple jell5\ After this put the cloth or bag 
over another dish and press out as much jm'ce as possible, using 
this for a second quality of jelly. 

Return the clear juice to the kettle, adding a pint of granu- 
lated sugar to every pint of juice. Stir until the sugar is dis- 
solved; then place over the fire; bring to a boil; set aside and 
skim. Repeat this process three times; test the jelly by drop- 
ping a teaspoon on a cool saucer; and if it jellies remove the 
liquid and pour it into sterilized glasses. 



RASPBERRY AND CURRANT JELLY 

Follow the recipe for Currant Jelly, using half raspberries and 
half currants. 

RASPBERRY JELLY 

Follow the recipe for Currant Jelly. 

BLACKBERRY JELLY 

Follow the recipe for Currant Jelly. 

STRAWBERRY JELLY 

To five quarts of strawberries add one quart of currants and 
proceed as with Currant Jelly; but boil fifteen minutes. 

GREEN-GRAPE JELLY 

Follow the recipe for Apple Jelly. 

RIPE-GRAPE JELLY 

Choose acid grapes, as the sweet, ripe grapes contain too much 
sugar. Follow the recipe for Currant Jelly. 

378 



^uyVf°Four CANNING AND PRESERVING 

PLUM JELLY 

Select under-ripe acid plums. Put them in a preserving kettle 
with one pint of water for every four quarts of fruit. Cook 
gently imtil the pliuns fall to pieces; strain the juice and proceed 
as with currant jelly. 



CANNING AND PRESERVING FamT ^ Four 



380 



P.SXof Four CANNING AND PRESERVING 



26 381 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 



Planned for a 
Family of Fouit 



382 



PICKLES 



PICKLES 

PICKLES, catsups and sour dishes of all sort whet the appetite 
and help to make meat dishes — especially cold meats — more 
palatable. 

MIXED PICKLE 

1 quart large cucumbers cut in cubes 
1 quart small cucumbers left whole 
1 quart small silTer-skimied onions 

1 quart green tomatoes chopped coarse 

2 red sweet peppers chopped fine 

1 large cauliflower broken in small pieces 

Wash the vegetables and pour over them a weak brine solution 
made of a quart of water and a cup of salt. Let stand twenty-four 
hom-s;- bring to a boil in same solution; drain and make the dress- 
ing. 

MIXED-PICKLE DRESSING 

6 tablespoons mustard 1 cup flour 

1 tablespoon turmeric 2 cups sugar 

2 quarts vinegar 

Mix the ingredients thoroughly and cook imtil thick. Stir in 
the pickles; heat thoroughly; empty into glass jars and stand 
away until needed. 

GREEN TOMATO SAUCE 

4 quarts green tomatoes 1 tablespoon salt 

V^ small onion 1 tablespoon mustard 

1 pint vinegar 1 tablespoon black pepper 

1 tablespoon sugar 1 tablespoon whole allspice and cloves 

Yv'^ash the tomatoes; remove the stem and blossom ends; shce 
them without peeling and put them to soak in salt and water over 
night. In the morning drain them; add the other ingredients and 
stew until tender. Keep in glass jars. 

385 



PICKLES 



Planned for a 
Family of Four 



CHILI SAUCE 



4 quarts ripe tomatoes 3 cups vinegar 

1/2 pound brown sugar 2 cups small onions 

1/2 cup salt 2 tablespoons horseradish 

Vi ounce cloves 1/2 oimce celery seed 

Vi ounce cinnamon I/2 ounce allspice 

1/2 teaspoon mustard 1/2 teaspoon black pepper 
1/2 red pepper 

Measure the tomatoes after they are peeled and chopped; put 
them over the fire and simmer for one hour. Chop the onions; 
grate the horseradish and grind the spices. Add all the other in- 
gredients to the tomatoes; simmer for one hour longer and seal 
while hot in large-necked bottles that have been thoroughly steril- 
ized. 

PICKLED PEPPERS 

Cut the stems out in a round circle with a sharp knife and lay 
them aside to replace later. Fill the peppers with a mixture of 
finely chopped cabbage, grated horseradish, mustard seed and salt. 
Wash the peppers in cold water; fill them; replace the stem; tie 
them with a soft cord to keep the lids in; pack them in stone jars 
and fill up with cold sharp vinegar. They will be ready for use in 
two weeks. 

PICKLED TOMATOES 

4 quarts tomatoes 1 teaspoon allspice 

8 blades mace 2 small red peppers sliced 

1 teaspoon whole cloves Cider vinegar 

Choose the small pear-shaped or cherry tomatoes; wash and 
dry them; put them in glass jars that can be made air-tight. Fill 
the jars three fourths fioll; add the spices and peppers and fill to 
the top with cold vinegar. Set in a cool dark place. This pickle 
will be ready in three weeks' time. 

TOMATO CATSUP 

8 quarts tomatoes 'A teaspoon red pepper 

1/2 quart cider vinegar V2 tablespoon black pepper 

34 cup salt 1 head garlic or 1/2 onion 

1/2 ounce whole cloves 

Cut the tomatoes in pieces and stew them until soft; press 
through a sieve to remove the skins and seeds; add the other 
ingredients; mix thoroughly and boil about three hours or imtil 
reduced one half. Bottle without straining and seal. 

386 



Planned for a PTPTfT FQ 

Family of Four flK^H^Lir^O 

PICKLED CUCUMBERS 

100 small cucumbers 1 tablespoon mustard seed 

1 pint salt 1 tablespoon whole allspice 

Alum size of a nutmeg 1 root horseradish 

Boiling water 2 small red peppers 
Boiling vinegar 

Wash and dry the pickles and put them in a large stone jar; add 
salt and alum and cover well with boiling water. Cover the jar 
tightly and let stand for twenty-four hours; remove the cucum- 
bers; dry them and place them in another jar in layers alternately 
with the spices and grated horseradish. Have the jar about two 
thirds full of cucumbers and pour over them sufficient boiling 
vinegar to fill the jar. When cold, cover closely and stand away. 

MUSHROOM CATSUP 

1 pint mushroom liquor V4 ounce green ginger root 

1/2 ounce peppercorns Vi ounce cloves 

V4 ounce allspice 1 blade mace 
Salt 

Wash and look over the mushrooms carefully; put them in an 
earthen jar with alternate layers of salt. Let stand for twenty- 
four hours in a comparatively warm place; put through a fruit 
press and add the ginger root cut into small pieces. Measure the 
hquor; add peppercorns and simmer for forty minutes ; then add 
the spices and boil for fifteen minutes. Take from the fire and 
cool. Strain through a cloth; bottle and seal. 



387 



PICKLES rl^^T^^ 



BEVERAGES 



BEVERAGES 

BEVERAGES may or may not be a necessary part of the 
ordinary meal; but to most people they are all but indis- 
pensable. Coffee and tea, it is true, even in moderate quantities 
often have bad effects upon the digestion and the nerves. II 
properly made, however, even these beverages may be taken by 
almost any person without resultant harm. 

COFFEE 

5 tablespoons ground coflEee 4 cups boiling water 
1 egg (or less) 1 cup cold water 

Use an aluminum or granite-ware pot and always make the coffee 
fresh, scalding the pot each time before using. 

Wash the egg; break and beat slightly. Add half the cold 
water; mix with the coffee; put in the pot and add the boiling 
water. Bring to a boil and boil for one minute ; add the remainder 
of the cold water to assist the gromids in settling. Stand the pot 
where it will keep hot but not boil for five minutes; then serve at 
once, as coffee allowed to stand becomes flat and loses its aroma. 

The egg is not necessary; but most cooks use a clean shell or a 
little of the white of an egg if they do not use the whole. Others 
beat the whole egg, with a little water, but use only a portion of it, 
keeping the rest for further use in a covered glass in the ice chest. 

INSTANTANEOUS COFFEE 

6 tablespoons pulverized coffee 6 cups boiling water 

A variety of pots are on the market for making instantaneous 
coffee, all containing a strainer to hold the coffee, which must be 
pulverized, not simply ground. Put the coffee in the strainer; 
scald out the pot; adjust the strainer and set the pot where the 
coffee will keep hot but not boil. Pour on freshly boiled water 
slowly^ covering between additions. When filtered pour off one 
cup and let it run again through the strainer. Serve at once, 

391 



BEVERAGES "^°"^ '"' ' 



Family of Four 



SERVING COFFEE 



Cream is usually served with coffee, but scalded milk renders 
the coffee more digestible than does cream. Fill the cup one 
fourth full of hot scalded milk; pour on the freshly-made coffee, 
adding sugar if desired. 

Whether cream or milk is used, it is better to pour the coffee on 
the cream or milk. 

After-dinner coffee should be made very strong and served black. 

COFFEE IN BULK 

1 pound ground coffee 9 quarts water 

1 egg - 

Mix the coffee with the egg that has been thinned by a little 
water, and tie it into four muslin bags. Let these soak in the 
water for three or four hours; bring to a boil and serve. 

This amount will serve fifty persons. 

TEA 

2 teaspoons tea 4 cups boiling water 

Use an earthen or china teapot and have water freshly boiled. 
Scald out the teapot; put in the tea and pour on the boiling water. 
Let stand in a warm place for five minutes; pour off and serve. 

Never let the tea boil; never let it stand a long time on the 
leaves; and never make more by adding fresh leaves to the old. 

RUSSIAN TEA 

Make the tea as usual. Serve with thin slices of lemon from 
which the seeds have been removed. 



TEA PUNCH 

1 quart tea Juice of 6 lemons 

1 pound sugar Juice of 2 oranges 

I lemon sliced 

Make the tea as usual; add sugar and fruit juices, cracked ice 
and more water as desired. Serve in a punch bowl with thin slices 
of lemon floating on the top. 

392 




o 
o 
& 
Pi 

Co 

<! 

o 

to 

& 

o 

t-H 

H 

o 
o 





^SSr'of'Fo^ BEVERAGES 

ICED TEA 

Make tea as usual; pour it off the leaves; sweeten to taste, and 
when cool stand in the refrigerator until serving time. Have the 
glasses filled with cracked ice and have thin slices of lemon cut to 
serve with the tea. 

HOT CHOCOLATE 

2 ounces unsweetened chocolate 1 cup boiling water 

3 tablespoons sugar 3 cups hot milk 
Small piece stick cinnamon 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Scrape the chocolate very fine; add the sugar, cinnamon and 
water; stir over the fire until the mixture is smooth; then add the 
mUk. Return to the fire for a minute; remove; add the vaniUa; 
beat well; pour into a chocolate pot and serve plain or with 
whipped cream. 

COCOA I 

4 teaspoons cocoa Little cold milk 
4 teaspoons sugar 4 cups hot milk 

Mix the cocoa and sugar, and stir together with a little cold 
milk until smooth. Stir this mixture into the hot milk; boil two 
minutes and serve. 



CHOCOLATE SYRUP 



2 cups sugar 1 cup cocoa 

2 cups water 14 teaspoon salt 

Dissolve the sugar in one cup of water and boil five minutes. 
Mix the cocoa with the other cup of water and add to the boiUng 
syrup. Boil slowly for ten minutes; add salt; cool and bottle for 
future use. 

This syrup will keep a long time in the ice chest in siumner and 
may be used for making delicious drinks. 



CHOCOLATE NECTAR 

Put into a glass two tablespoons of chocolate syrup, a little 
cream or milk and chopped ice, and fill up the glass with soda 
water, ApoUinaris, or milk. Drop a Uttle whipped cream on the 
top. 

393 



■DTTTnTD A r'TTC Planned for a 

■DJ<VJB<KA<j.ii,D Family of Four 

FRUIT DRINKS 

The success of lemon-, orange- and pineapple-ade depends in large 
degree upon the way they are made. It is best to make a syrup as 
for sherbets, using one cup of granulated sugar to one cup of water. 
Put the sugar in cold water over the fire; stir until the sugar is 
dissolved; then cook until the syrup spins a fine thread. Take 
from the fire and add the fruit juices while the syrup is hot. If 
lemonade is desired, lemon should predominate, but orange or 
pineapple juice or both should be added to yield the best result. 
Small pieces of fresh pineapple, fresh strawberries and maraschino 
cherries added at time of serving will make the drink look pretty 
and will improve the flavor. Shaved or very finely cracked ice 
should be used. 

QUICK LEMONADE 

2 lemons 1 quart water 

4 tablespoons sugar Cracked ice 

Wash the lemons and squeeze the juice; mix thoroughly with 
the sugar, and when the sugar is dissolved add the water and ice, 
and a little fresh fruit or slices of lemon if convenient. 

EGG LEMONADE 

2 lemons 4 tablespoons sugar 

2 eggs 3 cups water 

1 cup cracked ice 

Break the eggs and beat the whites and yolks separately. Mix 
the lemons, sugar, water and ice as for lemonade; add the eggs; 
pour rapidly back and forth from one pitcher to another and serve 
before the froth disappears. 

GRAPE JUICE 

10 potuds grapes 2 pounds sugar 

1 quart water 

Wash and stem the grapes; put them in a preserving kettle and 
crush slightly. Bring to a boil and cook gently for half an hour. 
Strain though cheesecloth or jelly bag, pressing out all the juice 
possible; retin-n to the fire with the sugar; cook for fifteen minutes; 
strain again; reheat and pour into sterilized bottles, thoroughly 
heated. Put in sterilized corks and dip the neck of the bottle in 
hot sealing wax. 

394 



g'a3r'of°Fo°ur BEVERAGES 

OTHER FRUIT JUICES 

Raspberry, blackberry and strawberry juice may be made by 
following the recipe for grape juice but doubling the quantity of 
sugar. For currant juice use four times as much sugar as for grape 
juice. 

FRUIT SYRUPS 

Fruit syrups may be made like fruit juices, only using more 
sugar — at least half as much sugar as fruit juice. 

RASPBERRY VINEGAR 

4 quarts raspberries 1 quart vinegar 

Sugar 

Put two quarts of raspberries in a bowl and cover them with the 
vinegar; cover and stand in a cool place for two days. Mash the 
berries; strain the vinegar through cheesecloth; pour it over two 
quarts of fresh raspberries ; let stand for another two days; strain 
and put in a preserving kettle with sugar, allowing a pound of 
sugar to a pint of juice. Heat slowly, skirmning when the vinegar 
begins to boil. Boil twenty minutes and put in sterilized bottles. 
Serve as a drink, using two tablespoons to a glass of water. 

FRUIT PUNCH 

1 cup sugar 1 cup lemon juice 

1 cup hot tea 1 quart Apollinaiis 

I cup orange juice 1 cup pickled cherries 
I orange sliced 

Pour the hot tea on the sugar and when the latter is dissolved 
add the other ingredients. Serve in a punch bowl with a large 
block of ice. 

Substitute pineapple or strawberry juice for the tea if preferred. 



395 



BEVERAGES Fi^y"^f ?oV. 



296 



Planned for a TJinrC'D A /^TTC 

Family of Four DIii\ JliiSJxyjlitO 



M 367 



BEVERAGES Fa^'X" o1 'fJu? 



398 



INVALID COOKERY 



INVALID COOKERY 

COOKING for an invalid is by no means a difficult task; but 
care is necessary in order that the product may be as appeti- 
zing and as digestible as possible. The serving, too, is important; 
only the daintiest china and glass should be used in the sick room ; 
for the patient is seldom hungry and needs to be "tempted" in 
every possible way. 

LAMB BROTH 

2 pounds neck of lamb 1 teaspoon salt 

1 quart cold water 

Clean the meat with a damp cloth; remove the skin and fat; 
cut the meat into smaU pieces and hack or separate the bones. 
Put bones and meat into a saucepan; add cold water; let stand 
one hour; then heat gradually and let it cook below the boiling 
point for two hours. Strain through a sieve; season and serve, 
adding a little boiled rice if desired. 

BEEF TEA 

1 pound ground lean beef 1 pint cold water 

Salt and pepper 

Choose beef from the under side of the round, as that contains 
the greatest strength, and have it ground. Put it in a closely 
covered saucepan and let it stand on the range, without boiling, 
for twenty minutes; then boil for six minutes; strain and season. 

OATMEAL GRUEL No. 1 

1 tablespoon oatmeal 1 pint milk or water 

3 tablespoons water Pinch of salt 

Mix the oatmeal with the three tablespoons of water. Boil 
the pint of milk or water and into it pour the oatmeal slowly. 
Season and boil for five minutes, stirring constantly. 

401 



INVALID COOKERY 



OATMEAL GRUEL No. 2 

1 quart water Milk 

3 tablespoons oatmeal Sugar 

Vi tablespoon butter 

Boil the water and into it stir the oatmeal; boil until it thickens, 
stirring constantly. Then pour it into a double boiler and let 
it cook for three or four hours. Thin with rich milk; strain care- 
fully; add the butter and sv/eeten to taste. 

If sugar is not desired, salt may be substituted. 

INDIAN GRUEL 

1 heaping tablespoon corn meal Salt 

1 quart water. Sugar 

Mix the meal with a little cold water. Boil the quart of water; 
pour it on the corn meal; beat well; return it to the saucepan 
and boil fifteen or twenty minutes. Add a little salt and sweeten 
to taste. 

SAGO GRUEL 

2 tablespoons sago 1 pint cold water 

Sugar 

Soak the sago for an hour in cold water sufficient to cover it; 
add the pint of water; place over a slow fire and stir imtil the sago 
is dissolved and becomes thickened. Sweeten to taste, and if 
too thick add a little boiling water. 

If desired, add flavoring and a little nutmeg. 

EGG GRUEL 

1 egg 1 cup hot millr 

1 teaspoon sugar Grated nutmeg or lemon juice 

Beat the yolk of the egg with the sugar until light; add the 
well-beaten white; pour over this the hot milk; flavor and serve 
at once. 

CRACKER GRUEL 

2 tablespoons powdered cracker Vz cup mjllT 

Vi cup boiling water Vi teaspoon salt 

Pour the water over the cracker; add the milk and salt; bring 
to a boil and serve. 

402 



INVALID COOKERY 



ARROWROOT 

2 teaspoons arrowroot 1 pint milk or water 

Sugar 

Mix the arrowroot in a little cold water. Boil the water or 
milk; stir in the arrowroot and boil until thickened and clear, 
stirring constantly. Sweeten to taste. 



ARROWROOT WATER 

2 pippin apples 1 teaspoon arrowroot 

1 quart water Sugar 

Pinch of grated nutmeg 

Wash the apples and cut them into small pieces, removing the 
core. Put them in the cold water over the fire and boil until the 
apples are soft, which will take an hour or more. Mix the arrow- 
root in a little cold water until perfectly smooth; stir into the 
apple water; let all boil together for ten minutes; strain through 
a sieve; sweeten to taste and set aside to cool. Serve as a drink 
with a little grated nutmeg over the top. 



FLAXSEED TEA 

1 tablespoon flaxseed 1 lemon 

1 quart boiling water Sugar 

Put the flaxseed in a pitcher and pour over it the boiling water. 
Add the juice of the lemon and a few strips of peel, cut off with a 
sharp knife. Sweeten to taste. This, taken at bed-time, is an 
excellent remedy for a cold. 



TOAST WATER 

2 slices bread 3 pints boiling water 

2 tablespoons currant jelly 

Cut the bread half an inch thick; toast very brown on both 
sides, but do not scorch. Break them in pieces; pour the boiling 
water over them; add the currant jelly and stir until it is thor- 
oughly dissolved. When cold, strain and serve, adding cracked 
ice if desired. 

403 



INVALID COOKERY 



ALBUMENIZED WATER 

1 cup cold water 1 teaspoon lemon juice 

WUte of 1 egg 1 teaspoon sugar 

Put the water, egg, lemon juice and sugar In a covered jar and 
shake until all the ingredients are thoroughly blended. Stand 
on the ice and shake agaia just before serving. 

RICE WATER 

1 tablespoon rice 1 quart water or milk 

Sugar 

Wash the rice and put it over the fire with the quart of water. 
When it comes to a boil set it where it will simmer imtil the rice 
becomes a pulp. Let it settle; pour off and sweeten to taste. 
Serve either hot or cold. 

PANADA 

2 stale rolls Boiling water 

1 tablespoon sugar Grated nutmeg 

Toast the rolls very brown, but do not scorch them; break into 
a bowl; sprinkle with sugar and a Uttle grated nutmeg and pour 
over them suflBcient boiling water to moisten thoroughly. 

If desired, a little flavoring may be added. 

FRENCH PANADA 

1 stale tea biscuit Vz teaspoon butter 

Boiling water Yolk of 1 egg 

Salt 2 tablespoons milk 

Break the biscuit into a saucepan; pour over it boUiug water 
sufficient to cover; boil five minutes; add butter and a little salt 
and mix well. Then stir iu the egg yolk, well beaten ia the milk; 
bring all to a boil and serve. 

MILK TOAST No. 1 

1 cup scalded milk Vi teaspoon salt 

3 slices buttered toast 

Spread fresh toast with butter and sprinkle with salt. Pour 
the scalded milk over the toast and serve at once. 

404 



INVALID COOKERY 



MILK TOAST No. 2 

1 cup scalded milk 1 tablespoon flour 

1 tablespoon butter V4 teaspoon salt 

3 sUces toast 

Cook the flour in the butter, but do not brown it; add the 
milk gradually; season and pour over the toast. 

CREAM TOAST 

1 slice bread 1 cup cream 

Salt 

Cut the bread half an inch thick and toast it brown on both 
sides. Lay it on a hot plate; sprinkle with salt; pour over it 
the cream, heated but not boiled, and serve at once. 



SOAKED CRACKERS 

Place several soda crackers in a soup plate; pour over them boil- 
ing water and let stand for about a minute. Drain off the water 
and serve with butter and salt, butter and nutmeg, cream and 
salt, or cream and sugar. 

Hot milk may be substituted for the boiling water if desired. 



EGG MILK-SHAKE 

I egg 1 teaspoon vanilla 

1 teaspoon sugar Milk to fill glass 

Grated nutmeg 

Beat the egg separately and then together; add sugar and 
flavoring, using a larger quantity if desired. Turn into a glass; 
fill the glass with milk; shake well and grate a little nutmeg over' 
the top. 

This is delicious when frozen. Make a custard of the egg, 
milk and sugar, using an extra quantity of sugar. When almost 
frozen add the flavoring and an equal quantity of sweetened 
whipped cream. 

SUNSHINE ORANGE 
Soak an orange in hot water for half an hoiu*, until it is heated 
to the core. Remove the skin, which will peel easily, and the 
pulp will be sweet, as if the orange had just been picked in the sun. 

405 



INVALID COOKERY 



LEMON FOAM 

1 cup water % cup sugar 

1 level tablespoon cornstarch White of 1 egg 

1 lemon 

Dissolve the cornstarch in a little water; add the remainder of 
the water and the sugar and cook rapidly for three minutes, stirring 
constantly. Remove from the fire; stir in the white of the egg, 
beaten stiff, and the juice of the lemon. Turn into molds; let 
stand for twelve hours and serve. 

LEMON WHEY 

1 cup milk 1 small lemon 

1 teaspoon sugar 

Heat the milk; add the lemon and let it stand over the fire 
until the curd separates; strain; add the sugar and serve hot or 
cold. 

WHIPPED APPLE SAUCE 

1 cup apple sauce White of 1 egg 

Grated nutmeg 

Beat the egg very stiff, alone and then with the apple sauce; add 
more sugar if necessary; serve in a sherbet glass, sprinkling a 
little grated nutmeg over the top. 

CUSTARD 

2 eggs Sugar 

1 cup milk 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Beat the eggs; stir them into the milk; sweeten to taste and 
cook in a double boiler. Stir until the mixture begins to thicken; 
remove from the fire and when the steam has passed off add the 
vanilla. 

Lemon'or other flavoring may be used in place of the vanilla if 
desired. 

CALF'S FOOT JELLY 

4 calves' feet V2 poimd powdered sugar 

3 quarts water 2 lemons 

Whites of 2 eggs 

Clean the feet thoroughly and boil them slowly unti^ the three 
quarts of water are reduced to one. Strain and set away until 

406 



INVALID COOKERY 



cold; remove the grease and place the jelly In a saucepan, being 
careful to avoid the settlings. Add the sugar, lemon juice and 
whites of eggs; let all boil together for a few minutes; pour into 
bowls or glasses and set away to cool. This is much more nour- 
ishing than the commercial gelatine. 

POTATOES ON THE HALF-SHELL 

Bake large, smooth potatoes; cut each In half lengthwise; 
scrape out the inside, leaving the skins whole. Beat the potato 
to a cream with melted butter and cream; season with pepper and 
salt, and fill the "shells," rounding the potato on top. Put a 
speck of butter on each half and brown slightly In the oven. 

Potatoes on the half-shell are more delicate than the ordinary 
baked potato. ~ 

KOUMISS 

2 quarts new milk 2 tablespoons water 

2 tablespoons sugar Vs cake compressed yeast 

Let the yeast dissolve In the water; add it to the sugar and milk 
and let the mixture stand In a warm place for about ten hours 
or until it has thickened. Pour from one vessel to another until 
thoroughly smooth; bottle and keep In a warm place for twenty- 
four hotu-s, OT longer in winter. Cork the bottles tightly and tie 
the corks down. Shake for a few moments before using. 

STEWED FIGS 
1 pound figs 1 pint water 

Wash the figs thoroughly and put them to soak over night in 
the pint of water. Bring them to a boil in the same water and let 
them cook until the syrup Is reduced about one half. 

TAPIOCA 

Vz cup tapioca 1 tablespoon lemon Juice 

1 pint boiling water Sugar 

Grated nutmeg 

Soak the tapioca In water sufficient to cover it; stir It into the 
boiling water and let it simmer until thoroughly dissolved. If 
too thick, add more boiling water. Sweeten to taste; add the 
lemon and^p-ate a little nutmeg over the top. 

407 



INVALID COOKERY 



BEEF PATS 

Scrape clean, uncooked beef until you have the desired quantity 
of paste; makeit into tiny pats; put each pat on a square of bread; 
toast quickly in a hot oven and serve with a little salt and butter. 

CHICKEN PANADA 

1 cup cold chicken 1 pint milk 

1 cup water 1 tablespoon butter 

1 tablespoon cornstarch Salt and pepper 

Chop the chicken very fine and put it over the fire with the water. 
When boiling, add the cornstarch moistened in a little cold milk; 
then add the pint of milk; bring to a boil; add the seasoning and 
butter and serve. 

OYSTERS ON TOAST 

6 oysters Salt and pepper 

V^ tablespoon butter 1 slice toast 

Put the oysters and butter in a pan, without any juice, over 
the fire; bring to a boil and serve on a slice of toast, delicately 
browned on both sides and slightly buttered. 

SQUABS OR ANY SMALL BIRDS 

Clean and singe the squabs the same as chicken. Split them 
down the back; flatten with a rolling-pin and broil over hot coals. 
Put them on a hot plate; butter slightly and season with pepper 
and salt. Serve on buttered toast. 



408 



INVALID COOKERY 



409 



INVALID COOKERY 



410 



FIRELESS COOKERY 



FIRELESS COOKERY 

THE fireless cooker is doming into general use in almost every 
household, and with good reason. Not only does it mean a 
tremendous saving of fuel and of energy on the part of the house- 
wife, but it produces better results with many dishes than are pos- 
sible with coal or gas. Cereals, for instance, which requhe long 
slow heating and which it is almost impossible to cook properly 
on a gas stove, are deHcious when prepared by the fireless method. 

Generally speaking, there are on the market two kinds of fireless 
cookers — ^the cookers, so called, and the calorics. In the former 
the food is always heated over a flame before placing it in the 
receptacle; in the latter sometimes only the radiators upon which 
the pans rest are heated. Baking is possible in the calorics but 
not in the others. 

The recipes given in this chapter are arranged for the cooker 
with radiators; but all of them, with the exception of those for 
roasting and baking, can be used for any cooker. Where there 
are no radiators, and where you are cooking things which require 
a great length of time, it is a good plan to remove the paU from the 
cooker when the time is half gone and reheat it over the fire. In 
doing so, as in preparing the dish for the cooker in the first place, 
the pail must not be uncovered before putting it in the cooker, or 
steam will escape and the food cool. 

The fireless cookers with radiators are by all means the best, 
and soon pay their own way by the saving of fuel; but where it is 
not possible to have one of these it is well worth while to have one 
of the simple cookers, which are less expensive and which can, with 
a little ingenuity, even be made at home. Procure a strong wooden 
box, well made, without cracks, and line it thoroughly with pads 
61Ied with hay or excelsior and covered with denim or other thick 
27 413 - 



FIRELESS COOKERY Frmi?ro1 '/our 

and closely woven material. Have a closely covered pail, prefer- 
ably a double pail of aluminum, to fit into the center and several 
pads of various sizes or a feather pillow to tuck over the top. The 
lid of the box should fasten down securely with a hasp. If care is 
taken to have the outside of the kettle clean and not to spill any 
of the contents, the pads will last for some time without renewing. 

With the cooker which has one paU within another, so that the 
upper one can rest in water, the process of steaming is more per- 
fect than where there is but one pail. It has also advantages 
where a great deal of cooking is to be done; for soup, for instance, 
may be cooking in the lower receptacle while vegetable, meat or 
pudding is in the upper. 

Certain precautions, it is true, must be observed by the cook 
who uses the fireless cooker. In the first place it should not be 
used for foods which require a rising temperature or those which 
require evaporation or those which might be injured by condensed 
steam. Then, too, it must be remembered that a dish left indefi- 
nitely in the cooker will sour. 

CEREALS 

To cook cereals in the cooker to best advantage there should be 
a double-boiler receptacle. Fill the large outer pail with water 
and bring it to a boil. In the upper vessel put the required amount 
of water; stir in the cereal; season to taste; heat and stir slowly 
until it begins to thicken — about ten minutes. Place the smaller 
kettle inside the larger and set away in the cooker.;, leave over- 
night and in the morning beat up well and reheat. If the grains 
are desired separate, cook a less time and do not beat. 

ARROWROOT GRUEL 

2 tablespoons arrowroot 1 teaspoon salt 

1 quart boiling water 1 teaspoon sugar 

Few drops vanilla 

Mix the arrowroot with just enough cold water to form a thin 
paste; add part of boiling water; mix well and add remaining 
hot water. Boil for five minutes and place in cooker for one houTc 
Cool; add a few drops of vanilla and a little cream if desired. 

414 



"mufof"Fo1.r FIRELESS COOKERY 



BARLEY MUSH 

% cup barley meal 1 teaspoon salt 

21/2 cups water 

Stir the meal slowly into the boiling salted water, being careful 
not to let it lump. Cook for ten minutes and place in cooker for 
eight hours or over night. 

CORN-MEAL MUSH 

y-i cup com meal 1 teaspoon salt 

^ 2 3^ cups water 

Slowly stir the meal into the boiling salted water, being careful 
not to allow it to lump. Let boil slowly for ten minutes; place 
in cooker and allow to remain eight to ten hours or over night. 

If you wish to fry the mush use only two ctips of water. 

CRACKED WHEAT 

34 cup cracked wheat 3 cups water 

% teaspoon salt 

Soak the cracked wheat in two cups of water for two hours. Heat 
remaining water to boiling point, add salt and the cracked wheat 
with the water in which it has been soaking. Boil for ten minutes; 
place in cooker over night. 

The flavor will be greatly improved if the wheat is slightly 
browned in the oven before soaking. 

GRAHAM MUSH 

1 cup graham flour 3 cups water 

1 teaspoon salt 

Stir the flour slowly into the boiling water, being careful not to 
allow it to lump. Boil slowly for five minutes and place in cooker 
over night. 

HOMmy 

1 cup hominy 2 teaspoons salt 

41^ cups boiling water 

Soak the hominy over night, keeping it in a warm place if pos- 
sible. Drain and add boiling water. Boil fifteen minutes and 
place in the cooker all day. 

41^ 



frTTj-TjT tree f^nnXr'G'O'i^ iMannefS »or a 

rlKJl/J^Jl/OO \^lJUjVil/K.I Family of Four 



OATMEAL 

1 eup oatmeal 3 cups water 

1 teaspoon salt 

Stii- the meal into boiKng salt water; boil for five minutes and 
place in the cooker over night. 

PETTIJOHN'S BREAKFAST FOOD 

1 cup cereal 3 cups water 

li/2 teaspoons salt 

Stir the cereal into boiling salted water; allow it to boil for five 
minutes and place Lq cooker over night. 

RALSTON'S BREAKFAST FOOD 

Vz cup cereal 3 cups water 

1 teaspoon salt 

Allow the water to boil hard, add salt and slowly stir In the 
breakfast food, being careful not to aUow it to lump. Boil slowly 
for five minutes and place in the cooker over night. 

BOILED RICE 

V2 cup rice 2Vi cups water 

1 teaspoon salt 

Clean and wash the rice; then stir it into boiling salted water 
and allow to boil five minutes. Place the kettle in the cooker and 
allow it to remaia for three hours or over night. ' 

RICE AKD FIGS 

Cook the rice the same as Boiled Rice, adding just before 
placing in the cooker a cup of figs which have been washed, 
stemmed and cut into small pieces. Dates may be used in the 
same manner. 

ROLLED WHEAT 

1 cup wheat 2V2 cups water 

1 teaspoon salt 

Have the water boiling directly over the fire. When it boils 
rapidly stir the cereal in with a fork to prevent lumping. Let it 
boil slowly five minutes; place in the cooker and let it remain for 
four or five hours, or over night. 

416 



ar'ote, FIRELESS COOKERY 

CREAM OF WHEAT 

Vz cup cream of wheat 3 cups water 

1/2 teaspoon salt 

Cook the same as Rolled Wheat. 

SOUP 

The real value of soup is brought out in a fireless cooker. Meats 
and bones for soup cost but little and the real expense of the dish — 
the long cooking over a fire, is done away with. The foundation 
of all soups is the juice or extracts of meats, poultry, etc., that are 
used, and the true flavor and the nutriment of these things are 
best preserved by the fireless method of cooking. 

BROWNED SOUP STOCK 

4 pounds soup meat and bone V4 teaspoon pepper 

1 onion 1 stalk celery 

214 quarts water 1 tiumip 

1 tablespoon salt 1 carrot 
V2 ^^7 leaf 

Wipe the meat and cut it into small pieces. Brown about one 
third in a frying pan with a little suet and an onion. Place 
bones and remaining meat in kettle; add two quarts of water and 
allow to stand for one hour. Add two cups of water to the meat in 
the frying pan; boil one minute and add to the meat in the kettle. 
Add seasoning and diced carrots and turnips. Bring the entire 
mixture to a boil and allow it to simmer ten minutes. Place in 
the cooker for eight hours. Remove and skim fat from top before 
using. Use one radiator or cook a longer time. 

WHITE SOUP STOCK 

4 pounds knuckle of veal 2 teaspoons salt 

1 onion 6 peppercorns 

Small bay leaf 1 stalk celery 
8 cups water 

Wipe the meat and cut into small pieces. Have bone cracked 
and place this with the meat in the kettle; add seasoning and 
onion and celery cut into small pieces. Add water and allow to 
stand an hour. Boil slowly thirty minutes and place in cooker 
eight hours. Pour soup through several thicknesses of cheesecloth 
and it will be very clear. Use one radiator or cook a longer time. 

417 



FIRELESS COOKERY Fi'X°olF°Ju? 

BEAN SOUP 

1 cup navy beans 2 stalks celery 

2 quarts water 1 tablespoon salt 

1 small onion Vi teaspoon pepper 

2 tablespoons butter 

Soak beans over night; drain and add two quarts of cold water. 
Add chopped celery and onion, also salt and pepper. Boil slowly 
for fifteen minutes. Place in cooker for four hours. Rub through 
sieve; add butter and serve. Use one radiator or cook a longer 
time. 

CHICKEN SOUP 

Clean and dress the chicken; place in kettle and add six cups of 
cold water, a few celery leaves and two teaspoons of salt. Boil 
slowly for twenty minutes; place in cooker for five hours. Allow 
chicken to cool in liquor. It may be used for salad or croquettes. 
Allow soup to cool and remove fat before serving. 



CORN SOUP 

1 can com 3 tablespoons butter 

1 quart milk 2 tablespoons flour 

1 tablespoon chopped onion Salt and pepper 

Yolks of 2 eggs 

Put the corn in the kettle, with the milk. Remove to the cooker 
for two hours or more. Fry the chopped onion in butter; add 
the flour and cook imtil smooth. Strain and add. Season with 
salt, pepper and paprika. Put in double boiler to keep hot, and 
just before serving add the yolks of eggs, well beaten. 

TOMATO SOUP 

1 can tomatoes 1 bay leaf 

2 cups water 2 cloves 

1 carrot 1 teaspoon salt 

1 small onion Dash of red pepper 

' 1 quart soup stock 

Add water to tomatoes. Dice carrot and slice onion; add these 
and the seasoning. Boil five minutes and place in cooker for two 
hours. Strain, add soup stock, reheat and serve. Use one radiator 
or cook a longer time. 

il8 



9:^?ifJf%^ur FIRELESS COOKERY 

H I .1 I — III. — -I. i ^«. »ii ■■■ . um H^ .. . .^i . . I.. II- - — 

TURTLE SOUP 

Thoroughly clean the turtle. Place in kettle and cover with 
cold water. Let it come to a boil and skim. Tie in a small bag 
one tablespoon of thyme, marjoram, and sweet basil; let it boil with 
the meat slowly for twenty minutes. Remove to the cooker for 
five or six hours. Use one radiator. Remove meat from bones 
and when cold cut and dice and return to the stock. Season with 
salt and pepper to taste. Brown some flour in oven,' blend with 
butter and thicken the soup to the consistency of cream. 

VEGETABLE SOUP 

2 cups brown soup stock V2 cup celery 

2 cups tomato juice 1 cup peas 
1 cup carrots 1 onion 

1 cup turnips 1 cup diced potatoes 

Seasoning 

To the soup stock and tomato juice add the diced carrots, tur- 
nips, onion, celery, potatoes, peas and seasoning. Boil slowly for 
ten minutes and then place in the cooker for three hours. Use one 
radiator or cook a longer time. 

POTATO SOUP 

3 potatoes 1 pint hot milk 

2 ounces butter Salt and pepper 

1 egg 

Pare and cut the potatoes in quarters; cover with boiling water 
and boil five or six minutes. Place in the cooker for one and a half 
hours. While mashing, add the butter and pour in gradually the 
boiling milk. Season with salt and pepper. Stir and strain and 
heat again. Beat the egg and put into tureen ; pour over it the 
soup. 

CREAM OF CELERY SOUP 

3 celeiy stalks 2 tablespoons flour 
Water II/2 cups milk 

2 tablespoons butter Salt and pepper 

Cut the celery into small pieces; cover with water and bring 
slowly to a boil. Boil ten minutes and then place in the cooker for 
two hours. Blend the butter and flour; add milk and cook. To 
this add drained celery water. Season with salt and pepper. 

419 



FIRELESS COOKERY 



Planned for a 
Family of Four 



CREAM OF PEA SOUP 



1 cup shelled peas 
Water to cover 
1 pint hot milk 



V2 cup cream 



% tablespoon butter 
1/2 tablespoon flour 
Salt and pepper 



Almost cover the shelled peas with boiling water. Boil ten 
minutes and add the boiling milk, the butter blended with the 
flour, also salt and pepper to taste. Cover and bring to boil and 
place in the cooker for two hours. When ready to serve strain 
through sieve and add the cream. 



LENTIL SOUP 



1 cup lentils 
1 carrot 
1 stalk celery 
1 onion 



4 cups stock 
2 tablespoons flour 
2 tablespoons butter 
2 teaspoons salt 



Soak lentils in water several hours; then drain and add the 
onions, carrot and celery, cut fine. Add water and boil ten 
minutes; place in cooker seven hours. Remove from cooker; drain 
and rub through sieve. Make paste of butter and flour; add vege- 
tables, stock and seasoning. Heat and serve. For Cream Lentil 
Soup add milk instead of stock. 



BOUILLON 



3 pounds lean beef 
2 quarts cold water 
A little celery 
1/2 small onion 



2 bay leaves 
Cinnamon and cloves 
Salt and pepper 
1 tablespoon caramel 



Cut the beef into cubes; add water, celery, onion and bay leaves 
and let stand in the cooker for five or six hours. Use one radiator. 
When taken from cooker allow to cool and remove the fat. Before 
using drop in a little bag of cinnamon and cloves. Season with salt 
and pepper, and color with a tablespoon of caramel. Heat and 
serve. 

FISH 

Fish is a food that may be easily cooked over a blaze, but the 
fireless is serviceable, as fish does not become soft nor fall to 
pieces even by standing a considerable length of time in the cooker. 

420 









' >$: 




ii&ii 



HOW TO DECORATE A CAKE 



gimSyVf°Fo"u, FIRELESS COOKERY 

BAKED FISH 

Open the fish; wash; wipe perfectly dry and rub over with salt; 
lay in a dripping-pan with a little butter and bread crumbs; and 
bake forty minutes in the fireless cooker, using both radiators. 

CODFISH BALLS 

1 cup shredded codfish 2 teaspoons butter 

1 pint potatoes 1 egg 

% saltspoon pepper 

Pare the potatoes; cut them into cubes and put them in the 
kettle with the codfish. Cover with boiling water; place in the 
cooker for three hours. Drain; mash and beat until very light. 
Add the butter, egg well beaten and the pepper; also more salt if 
needed. Drop by tablespoons in hot fat and fry a golden brown. 



BAKED LAKE TROUT 

After cleaning, tie the fish in a square of cheesecloth, immerse 
in boiling water and flavor with lemon juice. Place in the cooker 
and cook one hour with one radiator, or longer if no radiator is 
used. Drain and serve with cream sauce. 



BOILED WHITE FISH 

Clean and bone the fish and sew in a cheesecloth bag, leaving 
room for the fish to swell. Place in kettle with back down; cover 
with boiling salted water, allowing one tablespoon of salt and 
vinegar or lemon juice to each quart of water. Boil for five 
minutes. Place in cooker for one hour. If fish weighs over two 
pounds, boil ten minutes before placing in cooker. The skin may 
be easily peeled from a boiled fish. Serve with tomato sauce. 

SCALLOPED SALMON 

1 can salmon 1 tablespoon flour 

Butter Salt and pepper 

Place in baking dish one layer of salmon. Sprinkle with flour; 
add small pieces of butter, pepper and salt; then other layers 
until the dish is full; cover with cracker crumbs; heat and bake 
in the cooker about one hour. Use two radiators. 

421 



FIRELESS COOKERY vI^S^oVFou'^r 



Family of Four 



BOILED SALMON 

Wash and clean the fish; sew it in a cheesecloth bag, leaving 
room for fish to swell. Place in kettle; cover with boiling salted 
water, allowing one tablespoon of salt to each quart of water. Boil 
ten minutes and place in cooker for an hour and a half. 

Serve fish with rings of lemon and tomato sauce. 

TUEBOT 

Take a whitefish; boil; take out the bones and sprinkle with 
salt and pepper. For the dressing use one pint of cream sauce 
prepared in the usual way, and when cool add two beaten eggs. 
Put in baking dish a layer of fish, then a layer of sauce, until full. 
Cover top with bread crumbs and bake in the cooker for one hour. 
Use two radiators. 

MEATS 

The more expensive meats are not necessarily the most nutri- 
tious. If the housewife thoroughly understands the right v.ay to 
prepare cheaper meats, and has a fireless cooker, it is possible to 
have a tender and juicy piece of meat at comparatively small cost. 
Meats cooked by the fireless method do not lose in weight, be- 
cause nothing escapes, and there is no shrinkage from evaporation. 
It is a recognized fact that the tough meats can be reduced to 
delicious tenderness if steamed in a closed roaster for several 
hours. This is the principle of the fireless cooker. 

CORNED BEEF 

For cold corned beef the plate piece is best, while for hot the 
brisket is to be preferred. Always have a good layer of fat aroimd 
it. Place in cold water and bring slowly to a boil and boil for 
thirty minutes, skimming well the first few minutes. Have cover 
tightly closed before removing to the cooker, and leave six or 
eight hours, using one radiator. Cool in stock; press between 
plates, and serve in thin slices. 

BOILED BEEF 

The brisket or piece of round is good for boiling. Place the suet 
and trimming of the meat in the kettle and fry out the fat. Then 
throw in the meat and sear quickly on all sides. Remove the 
cracklings from the fat and cover the meat with boiling water. 

422 



FamnyVfTour FIRELESS COOKERY 

Without removing the cover place in the cooker and leave three 
hours or more. Use one radiator. Then place on a hot platter; 
salt well; garnish with cress or boiled cabbage. The liquor should 
be saved for stock and sauce, 

BEEF AU GRATm 

Put in baking dish a layer of bread crumbs, then some thin 
slices of fat salt pork, slices of cold cooked beef, onion, parsley 
and another layer of crumbs, until the dish is full. Pour over all 
any left-over gravy or stock to moisten. Bake in the cooker for 
one hoiu". 

ROAST BEEF 

The best shaped roast to cook in the fireless is a rolled roast of 
five to eight pounds. Use whatever seasoning you are accustomed 
to and prepare in the usual way for the oven. Put the roast in 
the largest vessel, and if the roast is large, raise the temperature 
of the two radiators to the highest possible point; then place the 
vessel in the large compartment and allow it to remain on the 
program of twenty minutes for each pound of roast, or three 
minutes less per pound if the roast is desired rare, 

ROUND STEAK ON BISCUITS 

Cut round steak into small half -inch squares; cover with water 
and boil for five minutes. Remove at once to the fireless cooker 
and leave for five hours. Take out the meat; make a brown 
sauce of the juice; pour meat and sauce over split tea biscuits 
that have been baked with a hard crust. 

BEEF STEW 

2 pounds round steak 1 carrot 

3 cups water 1 turnip 

1 teaspoon salt 1 stalk celery 

Dash of pepper 1 onion 

Remove the skin from the meat and cut into inch pieces; place 
in kettle; add water and seasoning. Cut the carrot, turnip and 
celery into one-half -inch cubes and add to mixture; also the onion, 
sliced. Boil for ten minutes and place in cook^ for three hoius. 
Thicken with four tablespoons of flour and one half cup of water, 
well mixed. Serve on toast. 



FIRELESS COOKERY FamX°olF°Ju? 

BEEFSTEAK AND ONIONS 

Select a thick steak and butter both sides; slice the onions thin 
and lay a layer of onions on top of the steak. Place it in the cook- 
ing vessel and use both radiators, the same as in roasting; and 
leave for about three quarters of an hour. 

BOILED DINNER 

Take three or four pounds of corned beef; cover with cold water 
and let boil slowly for twenty minutes. Then skim and add a 
small head of cabbage, a few carrots, potatoes and turnips and 
boil for five minutes. Place in the cooker for four hours. Use 
one radiator, or use no radietor and cook a longer time. 

BROWNED BEEF STEW 

2 pounds round steak 3 cups water 

1 onion Seasoning 

Cut meat into small pieces. Slice onions and brown in some of 
the suet or two tablespoons of butter; add meat and cook imtil 
well browned. Add the three cups of water and seasoning; allow 
to boU slowly for ten minutes. Place kettle in cooker for three 
hours; thicken with four tablespoons of browned flour and six 
tablespoons of water made into thin paste. 

CHICKEN CURRY 

3-pound chicken 2 teaspoons salt 

% cup butter 1 teaspoon vinegar 

2 small onions 1 tablespoon curry powder 

Boiling water 

Clean, singe and cut the chicken. Put the butter in a hot frying 
pan; add the chicken. Chop the giblets and onions; add salt, 
vinegar and curry powder. Cover with boiling water; place in 
the cooker for four hours, using one radiator. When ready to 
serve, remove the chicken. Thicken the hquid with flour; strain, 
and poiu- over the chicken. Garnish with a border of rice. 

FRICASSEED CHICKEN 

Dress, clean and cut the chicken for serving. Flour and salt 
shghtly; cover with boiling water; then place in cooker without 
removing cover and leave for three hom-s. Take from cooker and 

~ 424 . 



Famay"°Fo"ur FIRELESS COOKERY 

make sauce with the liquor by adding a tablespoon of flour, rubbed 
smooth in a half cup of milk; salt and pepper to taste. Let it 
come to a boil on the stove and serve at once with hot biscuits. 

CHICKEN PIE 

Place hot fricassee chicken and gravy in a baking dish. Make 
a rich crust and place on top of chicken. Place in cooker for one 
half hour. Use two radiators. 

ROAST CHICKEN 

The time necessary for roasting a chicken depends on the age of 
the bird. One hour and a half is sufficient for a young chicken, 
but an older one should be roasted two hours, and a very tough 
chicken three hours. If this course is followed, old chickens will 
turn out as tender and savory as spring chickens. Prepare the 
chicken in the usual method for the oven. It will not be necessary 
to heat the chicken to brown it before it has been placed in the 
cooker, for if both radiators have been made very hot the chicken 
when roasted will be nicely browned. It is not necessary to open 
the cooker for basting as the hot steam prevents burning. 

CHICKEN STEW 

Clean the chicken and cut it into small pieces. Heat the kettle 
and cover with water; allow to boil slowly for thirty minutes; 
season with pepper and salt, and place in cooker for six hours. 
Remove from cooker and add thickening. If desired, dumplings 
may be added and the kettle replaced in the cooker for thirty 
minutes. 

IRISH STEW 

1 pound mutton breast 1 slice onion 

Salt and pepper 1 cup green peas 

1 tablespoon butter 1 cup potatoes 

11/2 cups boiling water 

Rub the mutton breast with salt and pepper; cut up into small 
pieces; brown in butter; add the onion and cook until the onion 
is yellow. Add the potatoes, cut in cubes, the peas and boiling - 
water; season and cook ten mmutes over the fire. Remove to 
cooker and leave for one hour, using one radiator. 

425 



FIRELESS COOKERY Fam"u°ofFo»r 

BAKED HASH 

Chop and season any cold meat; do the same with cold potatoes, 
and put alternate layers in a dish with bits of butter between. 
Finish with rolled biscuits and bits of butter on top. Pour over 
this some good stock, and bake half an hour. 



BOILED HAM 

Soak over night if necessary. Wash and trim ofiF all dark skin; 
place in kettle; cover with cold water and boil a half hour. Re- 
move to cooker for four to sis hours, using one radiator. Boil 
about eight hom-s if no radiator is used, and reheat when the time 
is half expired. 

FRICASSEE OF LAMB 

Cut two pounds of lean lamb into inch cubes; dredge with flour 
and brown in a frying pan, using a httle suet to keep it from burn- 
ing. Place in kettle and add just water enough to cover. Boil 
for ten minutes and place in cooker for six hours. Thicken with 
one tablespoon of browned flour mixed with cold water; season to 
taste and serve on toast. 



ROAST LAMB 

Select a small leg of lamb and cut off the shank, seasoning well 
in the usual way. Place in the larger vessel and use both radiators. 
Allow about twenty minutes or more for each pound of meat. 
Prepare sauce in the usual style. 



LAMB CHOPS ROASTED 

Cut out the bone from each chop; roll up chop; pin together 
with toothpick; put in buttered pan; season with salt and pepper. 
Place in pan and put in baking rack for forty-five minutes, using 
two radiators. 

BOILED LEG OF MUTTON 

Place mutton in kettle and cover with boiling water. Boil for 
thirty minutes and place in cooker for three hours, using one radi- 
ator. 

426 



F'amnyVt°Fo"ur FIRELESS COOKERY 

ROAST PORK 

Select a piece suitable in shape for fitting in the larger vessel 
and cook from one hour and a half to three hours, according to 
the size of the roast. 

SWEETBREADS 

Wash sweetbreads and soak in shghtly salted water for one hour. 
Plunge them in boihng salted water and boil three minutes. Place 
in cooker for two hours. Then plimge them in cold water; when 
chilled, remove membrane. They may be rolled in crumbs and 
egg and fried, or broken in small pieces to cream. 

PORK TENDERLOIN 

Choose thick tenderloin; spht them, but not quite through. 
Make dressing of fine bread crumbs, salt, pepper and melted but- 
ter. Stuff tenderloin and bind together. Have tablespoon of 
melted butter in cooker kettle; add tenderloin and bake in roast- 
ing compartment one and a half to two hours. 

BOILED TONGUE 

Place tongue in water three hours before cooking. Put in kettle; 
cover with water and bring to boiling point. BoH thirty minutes; 
then place in cooker with one hot radiator for eight hours. If 
wanted for immediate use remove skin and set aside to cool. 

CURRY OF VEAL 

1 large onion 1 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon butter 1 tablespoon flour 

1 tablespoon curry powder 1 pint hot water 

2 potmds lean veal 

Fry the onion in the butter. Mix curry powder, salt and flcar, 
and stir into the butter and onion. Add gradually the hot water 
or stock. Cut the veal in small pieces, and brown them in hot fat. 
Add them to sauce; remove to the cooker for four or five hours, 
using one radiator. Place meat on hot platter and arrange a border 
of boiled rice. 

VEAL CROQUETTES 

Put the veal in the kettle with enough boihng water to cover. 
Remove to the cooker for three hours. Use one hot radiator. 

427 



FIRELESS COOKERY FamTolFour 

Chop fine and season highly with salt, pepper, celery salt, paprika 
and lemon juice. Use one and a half cups of veal with one cup of 
thick cream dressing. Shape in cylinders. When cool roll in egg 
and bread crumbs and fry in hot fat. 

VEAL LOAF 

3 pounds chopped veal 3 tablespoons milk 

4 crackers 1 large tablespoon salt 
Butter size of egg 1/2 teaspoon pepper 

3 eggs 1 tablespoon sage 

Mix the veal with the crackers rolled very fine; add the butter, 
eggs, milk, salt, pepper and sage. Mix aU together and form into 
a loaf. Bake three hours in the cooker, using both radiators. 

ROAST VEAL 

Select a piece of veal suitable in shape for fitting in the cooker. 
As veal is usually very lean, add a little butter. Roast in the 
ordinary way with two hot radiators; bake from one and a half 
to two hours. 

VEAL ROLLS 

Take thin veal steak oS the ham, and cut it in squares. Season 
these with salt and pepper and wrap around strips of salt pork, 
fastening each with a toothpick; roll in flour and brown in butter. 
Thicken the butter left in the pan with flour and add milk; bring 
this to a boil and pour over roUs. Place in the aluminum vessel, 
heat thoroughly for twenty minutes and place in the cooker for 
four hours. Mushrooms may be added to the sauce when ready 
to serve. 

VEAL AND RICE 

Vi cup rice 1 sliced onion 

2V2 pounds veal 6 tablespoons water 

2 tablespoons butter 1 tablespoon meat extract 

Boil the rice in salt water till soft (one can do this the day pre- 
vious). Cut the veal ia cubes. Heat the butter in a kettle; add 
the meat and sliced onion; leave until yeUow. Then add the rice, 
which has been thinned with water and meat extract, 'and Par- 
mesan cheese if desired. Put the closed kettle in the cooker for 
forty-five minutes. Use one radiator. 

428 



FL^niVur FIRELESS COOKERY 

MEAT RECIPES FOR THE HOME-MADE COOKER 

Any of the recipes for boiled meats or stew are, of course, suit- 
able for use with the ordinary box cooker. Those calling for the 
use of radiators are not. Meats that must be browned can be 
prepared in the cooker, however, if they are browned over a blaze 
either before or after they are placed in the cooker. 

Here are a few recipes : 

Roasted Meats 

Sear the roast over the fire, turning it constantly in a hot, dry 
pan; put in a very hot oven with two cups of water and bake 
twenty minutes. While this is being done, bring the water in the 
outer kettle to a boU; then place the roast over it; cover and boil 
hard for five or ten minutes ; lift into the cooker and leave all day, 
reheating at noon and again at serving time. Lift the meat from 
the upper pan and make a brown sauce from the juice that re- 
mains. 

Stuffed Heart 

1 heart Savory drippings 

1 cup broken bread 1 chopped onion 

Salt and pepper 

Wash the heart thoroughly inside and out. Dip the bread- 
crumbs in fat; brown them in the oven; mix with chopped onion 
and season thoroughly. Stuff the heart with this mixture; sew 
up the opening and put it on to boil in water sufficient to cover. 
Boil for ten minutes and set in the fireless cooker for six or eight 
hours. Remove from the water halt an hour before serving; 
sprinkle with flour, pepper, salt and grated crumbs and brown in 
the oven. 

Mock Wild Duck 

11/2 pounds round steak Salt and pepper 

2 lamb kidneys Powdered myme and sage 
V4 cup drippings 2 tablespoons flour 

% cup cracker crumbs 1 tablespoon sugar 

1 tablespoon minced onion 3 cups water or stock 

Choose a steak from the round, about one half inch thick. Trim 
the kidneys of all fat, cords and veins. Cut into small pieces and 
spread evenly over the steak, together with crumbs, onion and 
28 429 



FIRELESS COOKERY v!^,'ir3'vZ.l 



Family of Four 



seasonings. Roll and tie with a cord. Brown the roll in the 
drippings ; then remove and make a gravy by heating the flour in 
the fat and adding the water or stock and the sugar. Return the 
meat to the gra\'y; heat it thoroughly; place in the fireless 
cooker and cook until tender. Just before serving time remove 
the roll and brown it in the oven. 

VEGETABLES 

Many vegetables are cooked best in a fireless cooker, because 
the food yi\\ue and taste are developed. For those vegetables 
that are cooked or boiled in water, the usual recipes can be applied. 
It is only necessary to put sufficient boiling water over the vege- 
tables before placing in the cooker. One radiator is used. In 
baking such vegetables as potatoes, apples, etc., both radiators 
are used. Ordinary sized potatoes require from three quarters to 
one hour cooking time. 

Vegetables may be cooked by all of the following three methods, 
and each housewife should determine to her own satisfaction which 
method gives the best results: 

1. Vegetable first brought to boiling point and placed in cooker 
without radiator. 

2. Vegetable first brought to boil and placed in the cooker with 
heated radiator. 

3. Vegetable placed in cooker cold and raw with heated radiator. 
All good cooks are aware that some kinds of vegetables are better 

when cooked at a boil, such as potatoes and other vegetables con- 
taining a large percentage of starch; while other vegetables, such 
as parsnips, carrots and turnips, containing but little starch, arc 
hardened by high heat and should be cooked slowly without 
radiators. Again, green peas and asparagus, containing much 
sugar, are better cooked vdthout the radiators, as there will be no 
violent boiling. 

ASPARAGUS 

Wash the asparagus; cut off tough ends; cover with boiling 
water and place in cooker for one hour. Drain off the water and 
cover with milk; season with salt and pepper; heat and serve. 

BOILED BEETS 

Wash and scrub, but do not cut the beets. Cover with boiling 
water and allow to boil fifteen minutes. Place in cooker for two 

430 



Familv of^Four FIRELESS COOK^ERY 



Family of Four 



hours or more, depending upon the age of the beets. Remove 
from cooker; put beets in cold water for a minute; slip off the 
skins, and cut the beets in small pieces. Season with salt, pepper 
and butter, or any sauce you may prefer. To retain the color of 
the beets leave on the root and about one half inch of leaves. 



BEET GREENS 

Wash and pick over the greens carefully; add one cup of boiling 
water for each quart of greens. Boil slowly for ten minutes; place 
kettle in cooker for two hours. Drain off the water; add salt, 
pepper and butter; reheat and serve. 



PICKLED BEETS 

2 cups boiling water 2 cups vinegar 

4 tablespoons sugar 1 tablespoon salt 

1/2 teaspoon pepper 10 cloves 

1 stick cinnamon 10 peppercorns 

Boil the beets as usual; peel and cut them into slices; place 
in glass jar. Mix the sugar, salt, pepper and spices in the water; 
add vinegar and heat almost to the boiling point. Pour this 
over the beets and allow them to stand twenty-four hours before 
serving. 

BAKED BEANS 

Clean the beans and soak in cold water over night. Drain off 
this water and add enough fresh water to cover them. Add a half 
pound of salt pork to each quart of beans (measured before soak- 
ing) ; add salt, pepper and molasses or sugar to suit taste. Boil 
for ten or fifteen minutes; place kettle in cooker for six or eight 
hours. Remove to earthen dish and bake for two hours or until 
beans are well browned. 

BOILED CABBAGE 

Remove outside leaves; cut into quarters and cut out tough 
center. Put into kettle and cover with boiling salted water; allow 
to boil for ten minutes without cover. Cover and place in cooker 
for one hour. Season with butter, salt and pepper, or serve with 
cream sauce. 

431 



FIRELESS COOKERY FamToJ fo« 

BOILED CARROTS 

Wash and scrape the carrots; cut into slices or cubes; place in 
kettle and cover with boiling water. Allow to boil for five minutes ; 
add salt and place in cooker for three hours. Drain and serve with 
a cream sauce or melted butter. Carrots may be cooled and used 
in a salad if preferred. 

CARROTS AND PEAS 

Cook the carrots as usual; when done, drain; add one can of 
peas and allow to simmer for ten minutes; add salt, pepper and 
butter and serve at once. 

CAULIFLOWER 

Remove outside leaves from cauliflower and place it in cold 
water; allow to remain a hah hour. Place in kettle and cover 
with boiling water; add one teaspoon of salt and boil slowly five 
minutes; place in cooker for one hour. Drain and serve with 
cream sauce. - - 

CREAMED CELERY 

Wash, clean and cut into small pieces enough celery to make 
three cups; place in kettle and cover with boiling water, allow to 
simmer five minutes. Place in cooker for two hours; drain and 
serve with cream sauce. 

BAKED CORN 

6 ears com Vi cup butter 

1 cup boiling milk Salt and pepper 

Cut the grains from the cobs; add boiling milk, butter, salt and 
pepper to taste. Put in buttered baking, dish; dot with small 
pieces of butter and bake in cooker for one hour. 



BAKED CORN AND TOMATOES 

Fill a baking dish with alternate layers of canned corn, tomatoes' 
and toasted or fried bread crumbs, adding plenty of salt and pep- 
per, a suspicion of sugar and generous piece of butter. Have the 
top layer of crumbs. Bake for one hour. 

432 



Fl5gSr'of°Four'^ FIRELESS COOKERY 

BOILED GREEN CORN 

Remove the husks and threads; place corn in kettle; cover with 
boihng water and boil for three minutes. Place in cooker for one 
hour or more, depending upon the age of the corn. Drain and 
serve with salt and butter. 

LIMA BEANS— FRESH 

Wash the beans and cover with water." Add a small piece of 
salt pork or butter and boil for ten minutes; season and place in 
cooker for two hours or more. Season to taste with salt and pepper. 

LIMA BEANS— PUREE 

1 cup dried beans 1 stalk celery 

2 cups water 1 teaspoon salt 
1 slice onion Dash of pepper 

2 tablespoons butter 

Soak the beans over night. Drain; add fresh water and a pinch 
of soda. Boil fifteen minutes; add onion and celery cut into small 
pieces; place in cooker over night. Rub through sieve; add but- 
ter, salt and pepper, and serve hot. 

BOILED ONIONS 

Cover the onions with boiling water. Add salt and boil three 
minutes. Cook two hours or longer, using one hot radiator. 
Drain; season with salt, pepper and butter; or serve with cream 
sauce. 

PARSNIPS 

Wash and scrape the parsnips; cut in slices about one fourth of 
an inch thick; cover with boiling salted water and allow to boil 
for five minutes. Place in cooker for three hours. Drain and 
brown in frying pan or season with salt, pepper and butter. 

PEAS 

Shell the peas; throw them into boiling water and let them boil 
slowly for five minutes. Add salt, pepper and butter. Place in 
cooker for two hours or more. 

^3 



FIRELESS COOKERY FrXolFo^u^r 

MASHED POTATOES 

Wash and pare the potatoes; cut into pieces of uniform size; 
cover with boihng salted water and boil for five minutes. Place 
in cooker for an hour or an hour and a half, depending upon the 
size of the pieces and amount in the kettle; drain, mash, add salt, 
pepper, milk and butter. Beat until smooth. 



STEAMED POTATOES 

Wash the potatoes in fresh water; put them into the kettle and 
cover with water (hot water preferred), clamping the lid on the 
kettle. Heat one radiator twenty minutes; place kettle over the 
radiator while heating. Pour the water off the potatoes, allowing 
only a little to remain and put the kettle into the cooker over the 
radiator. Cook for an hour and a half. Potatoes may be pared 
or unpared. 

BAKED POTATOES 

Wash and dry medium-sized potatoes; put them in a pan and 
bake in the fireless for forty-five minutes. After fifteen minutes 
raise the cover quickly and allow the steam to escape. 



CREAMED POTATOES 

Wash and pare the potatoes; cut into one-half -inch cubes; 
place in kettle and cover with boiling salted water. Boil three 
minutes and place in cooker for forty-five minutes. Drain and 
cover with cream sauce. Large amounts of potatoes may be 
cooked in the cooker in this way without danger of their breaking. 



SCALLOPED POTATOES 

1 pint raw potatoes V2 small onion 

Butter 1/2 cup bread crumbs 

Salt and pepper 1 cup milk 

Peel and slice the potatoes; put them in the kettle in layers, 
covering each with salt, pepper, butter and a Uttle onion. Put a 
layer of bread crumbs on top; pour on the milk; heat thoroughly 
and place in the cooker. Use two radiators and bake two and a 
half hours. 

434 



"m{ly''of°Fo"ur FIRELESS COOKERY 

POTATOES FOR SALAD 

Select potatoes of uniform size; wash and remove the eyes. 
Place potatoes in kettle and cover with boiling water. Add one 
tablespoon of salt for each quart of water. Boil five minutes if 
potatoes are small, ten if large. Place in cooker for two hours. 
Drain and allow to cool uncovered. 

SAUER KRAUT 

Place a poimd of sliced fresh pork in a vessel and add a quart of 
saner kraut; cover with water and boil for ten minutes. Put in 
the cooker and allow it to remain for six hours. 

SPINACH 

Clean and wash the spinach, carefully removing roots; place in 
kettle and add half as much boiling water as spinach; salt and boil 
slowly ten minutes. Place in cooker three hours; drain; add 
butter, salt and pepper. Serve with vinegar and hard-boiled 
eggs. 

STUFFED PEPPERS 

To prepare red and green sweet peppers for stuffing, cut off the 
top and with a knife cut out and remove the veins and seeds. The 
peppers may be filled with a variety of mixtures — chopped cold 
meats and seasoned bread crumbs and onion juice, or other sea- 
soning, or plain boiled rice; in any or all cases moisten liberally 
with melted butter. Stand close together in a dish; pour on a 
little stock or boiling water and bake in the cooker for one half 
hour. 

SQUASH 

Cut the squash into pieces; remove seeds and pare. Cut into 
small pieces^^and add water almost to cover. Boil ten minutes 
and place in cooker two hours. Drain, mash and season with but- 
ter, salt and pepper. If the butter is browned slightly it will im- 
prove the flavor. 

STRING BEANS 

Break rather than cut the beans into small pieces of about one 
half inch and, unless they are very fresh, it is well to soak them in 
ice water one hoiu- before cooking. Then throw them into boiling- 
water; season with salt and pepper and a little butter. Cover 
the dish; place in the cooker and leave two hours or more. 

435 



FIRELESS COOKERY FamUyVf°Four 

BAKED SWEET POTATOES 

Prepare in the same way as white potatoes and bake by same 
method. They will cook in about the same time. 

WHITE TURNIPS 

Wash and pare the turnips; cut into slices and cover with boil^ 
ing water. Cook for ten minutes and place in cooker for foui- 
hours. Drain and mash; season with salt, pepper and butter 
and serve hot. Use two radiators. 



YELLOW TURNIPS 

Prepare yellow turnips or rutabagas, as they are sometimes 
called, in the same manner as white turnips, but leave in the cooker 
from one to two hours longer, as they require more cooking. 



BOILED TOMATOES 

Wash the tomatoes and pour boiling water over them, allowing 
them to remain in it about one half minute or less if they are very 
ripe. Cover with cold water and peel. Cut into pieces and add 
salt, pepper to taste, butter and a small amount of sugar. Boil 
for five minutes; place in cooker and allow to remain one hour. 

STEWED TOMATOES 

1 tablespoon butter 1 quart tomatoes 

1 level tablespoon flour 1 tablespoon sugar 

Salt and pepper 

Rub the butter, melted, into the flour; add the tomatoes and 
seasoning and put in the covered kettle in the cooker for twenty- 
five minutes. Use one radiator. 



BAKED MACARONI 

1/2 pound macaroni 2 cups cream sauce 

1/2 teaspoon salt 1/2 cup bread crumbs 

Break the sticks into small pieces; add salt and boil for thirty 
minutes. Add cream sauce and bake for two and a half hours, 
using both radiators. Reheat and serve. 

436 




HOW TO MAKE PASTRY 
Mixing the Dougb Fluting the Crust Health Pie 





SANDWICHES 



?»'^Sf„?'J„'„r FIRELESS COOKERY 



Family of Four 



MACARONI WITH CHEESE 

Cook the macaroni as for baking. Place a layer of macaroni 
in a pudding dish; cover with a layer of cream sauce and a layer 
of grated cheese. Alternate until the dish is filled. Put layer of 
bread crumbs on top with bits of butter. Bake for two hours, 
using both radiators. 

MACARONI WITH TOMATOES 

Prepare macaroni as for baking. Put layer of tomatoes in 
pudding dish; cover with macaroni; season with salt, pepper and 
butter. Repeat this until the dish is full. Sprinkle cracker 
crumbs on the top with bits of butter. Bake slowly for an hour. 

BREAD AND BISCUITS 

In baking bread or biscuits the fireless cooker is a pronounced 
success, as it browns the crusts and bakes thoroughly without 
burning. The cooker is also an excellent place to set the sponge 
to rise, for the temperature is always the same, and no matter 
what condition the kitchen may be in over night, the sponge will 
be kept perfectly warm. 

Use two radiators for baking bread, biscuits, cakes and pies, 
placing one radiator below bread or pastry rack and one above, 
and have only one pan of bread, cake or pie in the rack at a time. 
After the pastry has been in the cooker ten or fifteen minutes, 
open and close quickly the top of the cooker and let the steam es- 
cape. _ Do not open again until the full cooking time has elapsed. 
Opening the cooker and letting out the steam prevents the bread 
and pastry from becoming soggy and permits it to brown. 

The regular recipes can be used, but several are here given. A 
few experiments will enable one to make a satisfactory time 
schedule. 

BREAD 

4 potatoes 1 cake compressed yeast 

1 quart water 1 tablespoon lukewarm water 

2 tablespoons salt 3 quarts flour 

4 teaspoons sugar 2 tablespoons lard 

Boil the potatoes in the water. When thoroughly done, mash; 
add salt and sugar. Dissolve the yeast cake in lukewarm water; 
mix potato water and yeast together; place this in small aluminum 

437 



FIRELESS COOKERY FrXolpJu^r 

dish and leave over night in the cooker, so as to keep it warm and 
out of drafts. In the morning rub the lard into the flour; add the 
yeast; mix down, adding enough flour to make it stiff; place this 
in large aluminum pail and put it into the cooker to rise. When 
light, cut into loaves; work down smooth and put in the large 
aluminum vessel. Have the radiators hot and use them just the 
same as when roasting beef. 

TEA BISCUITS 

Follow the usual recipe and bake with two very hot radiators. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD No. 1 

2 cups yellow com meal 1 heaping teaspoon baking soda 

2 cups graham flour 1 cup hot water 

1 cup wheat 'flour 1 cup New Orleans molasses 

1 teaspoon salt 1 quart buttermilk 

2 teaspoons melted lard or butter 

Mix the corn meal, graham flour, wheat flour and salt thoroughly 
together. Dissolve the soda in the hot water. Whip all the 
liquids together; turn into the mixed flour; beat well and add the 
melted lard or butter. Bake in the cooker, using two very hot 
radiators, for about an hour and a half. 

BROWN BREAD No. 2 

1 quart buttermilk or sour milk 2 cups yellow com meal 

1 tablespoon melted butter Vz cup currants or raisins 

1 tablespoon soda 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

1 tablespoon salt % teaspoon allspice 

1 cup New Orleans molasses Vz teaspoon nutmeg 

4 cups coarse graham flour 14 teaspoon ginger 

Mix the first five ingredients thoroughly; add the flour and 
meal; mix well; add the fruit and spices. Bake for three hours, 
using two radiators. 

The fruit and spices may be omitted if desired. 

STEAMED GRAHAM BREAD 

3 cups graham flour 1 cup white flour 
1 teaspoon salt 3 teaspoons soda 

1 cup molasses 2V2 cups soiu- milk 

Mix and cook the same as Boston Brown Bread, using one 
radiator. 

438 



gL''.Srot''Fo1.r FIRELESS COOKERY 

CAKE 

Any kind of cake can be baked in the fireless cooker; but dif- 
ferent cakes require different heats, which can only be learned by 
experience. For instance : a batter with butter in it requires more 
heat than a hght batter without butter. One must consider this 
fact in heating the radiators and in keeping the cake in the cooker. 
Use ordinary cake pans, placing same in bread and pastry rack 
which is furnished, using two radiators. It is a good plan after 
the cake has been in the cooker ten or fifteen minutes to open the 
top quickly and let the steam escape. 

Below are a few recipes that have been well tried out on the 
fireless cooker. 

ANGEL CAKE 

1 cup sifted flour Whites of 8 to 10 eggs 

IVi cups sifted sugar Pinch of salt 

1/2 teaspoon cream of tartar 

Sift the flour four or five times before measuring; tlien sift and 
measure the sugar. Add the salt to the eggs; beat them to a 
froth; add cream of tartar and beat until very stiff. Stir in sugar; 
then flour, very lightly. Put in a pan in the pastry rack and bake 
between two moderately hot radiators. 



SPONGE CAKE No. 1 

2 eggs 1 teaspoon baking powder 

1 cup sugar 1/2 cup hot milk 

1 cup flour 1 teaspoon flavoring 

Beat the yolks; stir into them the sugar and beaten whites; 
then fold in the flour and baking powder, weVl sifted. Add the hot 
milk and flavoring and bake for thirty minutes, using both radi- 
ators. 

SPONGE CAKE No. 2 

4 eggs Juice and rind of 1/2 lemon 

1 cup sugar 1 cup flour 

Beat the yolks and whites of the eggs separately. Into the 
yolks stir the sugar, lemon and whites; then fold in the flour. 
Bake between two moderately hot radiators for twenty-five 
minutes. 

439 



FIRELESS COOKERY F^^S^ft'^^L^r 



Family of Four 



CHRISTMAS CAKE 

iVi pounds flour 1 pound sugar 

1 teaspoon cinnamon 1 pound butter 

1 teaspoon nutmeg 12 eggs 

14 teaspoon cloves % cup currant jelly 

% teaspoon allspice 1 teaspoon soda 

1 pound citron 1 cup molasses 

1 poimd currants 1 teaspoon salt 

2 pounds seeded raisins Dash of red pepper 

Divide the flour into two parts ; into one half put the cinnamon, 
nutmeg, cloves and allspice, and into the other mix the fruit. 
Cream the butter and sugar; add the eggs, well beaten, then the 
soda, dissolved in a little warm water and mixed with the molasses, 
salt and pepper. Put in round buttered pans and bake between 
two moderately hot radiators for two hours. 

GINGERBREAD 



3^ cup lard 




1 tablespoon mixed spices 


1 


cup sugar 




1 tablespoon ginger 


3 


eggs 




1 dessertspoon soda 


1 


cup molasses 




1 tablespoon hot water 


1 


tablespoon cloves 




Flour 




1 


cup 


boiling water 



Cream the lard and sugar; add the other ingredients in the 
order named, dissolving the soda in the hot water before using. 

SOUR-MILK CAKE 

1 cup sour milk 1 egg 

1 cup sugar 1 level teaspoon soda 
V2 cup butter Vi cup chopped raisins 

2 cups flour Spices to taste 

Mix all well together. Bake in a loaf with two radiators. 

NUT CAKE 

1/2 cup butter 2 cups flour 

1 cup sugar 2 teaspoons baking powder 

Yolks of 2 eggs 1 cup chopped nuts 

1/2 cup milk Whites of 2 eggs 

Chop the nutmeats and sprinkle with flour. Cream the butter, 
sugar and yolks; add the milk, then the flour in which the baking 

440 



?'Z!ltVfT„"ur FIRELESS COOKERY 



Family of Four 



powder has been sifted; then the nut-meats and, last, the well- 
whipped whites. Bake in layers or in round cake dish. Remove 
and ice with caramel icing and nut-meats. Bake with two radi- 
ators. 

DRIED FRUITS 

Dried fruits are especially satisfactory when prepared in the 
fireless cooker; for they can be cooked the long time that is neces- 
sary to their perfection, without danger of being broken or re- 
duced to a mush. 

APPLES 

Wash the apples in cold water, soak over night and cook in the 
water in which they were soaked. Boil slowly for ten minutes, 
adding sugar, lemon and spices to taste. Place in cooker for six 
hours. 

APRICOTS 

Wash the fruit carefully and allow It to soak In cold water over 
night. Boil slowly for ten minutes in same water; add sugar to 
taste and place in cooker for four hours. 



BLACK FIGS 

Wash figs and soak over night in cold water. Boil slowly for 
five minutes in same water in which they were soaked; add sugar 
to taste; cook until sugar is dissolved; place in cooker for three 
or four hours. Serve cold with cream. 



FIGS 

Cut stems from figs ; cover with cold water; add a slice of lemon 
and simmer for five minutes. Add sugar to taste and cook five 
minutes longer. Place In cooker for three hours. 



DRIED PEACHES 

Wash peaches in cold water; drain and cover with fresh water; 
allow to soak over night. Boil slowly for ten minutes In water In 
which they were soaked; add sugar to taste and place in cooker 
for four hours. 

441 --*..,- 



FIRELESS COOKERY Family of Four 



DRIED PEARS 

Cook pears the same as peaches. A few whole cloves, a small 
piece of cinnamon and a slice of lemon added while pears are boil- 
ing will improve their flavor. 

PRUNES 

AVash the prunes in cold water; cover with fresh water and 
allow to soak over night. Simmer for five minutes in the same 
■5\ater in which they were soaked; add sugar to taste and when 
sugar is dissolved and the prunes boiling hot, place in the cooker 
for four hours. 

BREAD PUDDING 

2 tablespoons butter Pinch of salt 

Yolks of 4 eggs Nutmeg if desired 

5 tablespoons bread crumbs Whites of 4 eggs 

1/2 teaspoon baking powder 

Cream the butter; add the yolks of the eggs and stir well; add 
the bread crumbs, salt and nutmeg; fold in the whipped whites 
of eggs; add the baking powder and pour into a pudding dish. 
Boil in a kettle of boiling water on the stove for fifteen minutes; 
then place in the cooker for one hour. Use two radiators. 

COTTAGE PUDDING 

1 cup sugar 1 cup millr 

1/4 cup butter 2 cups flour 

1 egg 2 teaspoons baking powder 

Take the sugar, butter and egg and beat well together; add the 
milk and the baking powder well sifted in the flour. Bake in 
shallow pan between two moderately hot radiators for twenty 
minutes. Serve with sauce. 

FIG PUDDING 

1 cup sugar 4 level teaspoons baking powder 

1/2 cup butter 21/3 cups flour 

1/2 cup water 1/2 cup figs chopped fine 

Whites of 4 eggs 

Cream the butter; add the sugar gradually; sift the baking 
powder with the flour, and add milk and flour alternately; add 

442 



Planned for a ■PT'DTrT 17 CG r^CtfWVO'V 

Family of Four r'lK.H/LfJiOO l^UUJi^JlrCX 



figs and fold in the whites of eggs. Pour mixture into buttered 
molds; place mold in kettle and add boiling water until it almost 
comes to top of molds. Boil fifteen minutes and place in cooker 
for two hours. Serve with hard sauce. 

CHERRY PUDDING 

Follow the recipe for Fig Pudding, adding one cup of fresh 
cherries. If the cherries are very juicy add about two tablespoons 
more of flour. Cooked cherries may be used : drain them and save 
the juice for sauce. 

TAPIOCA AND APPLES 

1/2 cup pearl tapioca % cup sugar 

4 cups boiling water 6 sour apples 

1 teaspoon salt 

Soak the tapioca in cold water for two hours. Drain and add 
the boiling water; boil five minutes; add the sugar and salt, and 
when the sugar is dissolved, place in the cooker for two hours. 
Pare and core the apples; cut into pieces or leave whole; place 
in buttered dish and cover with cooked tapioca. Bake until 
apples are soft. Serve with cream and sugar. 

The minute tapioca may be used, and it needs no soaking. 

TAPIOCA CUSTARD PUDDING 

1 cup pearl or minute tapioca 3 eggs 

1 cup water 3^ cup sugar 

3 cups milk 1 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon butter 

Soak pearl tapioca in cold water one hour; drain and add 
water. Heat to boiling point; add milk, sugar and salt, cook 
slowly for five minutes, being careful not to let it burn. Place 
m cooker for two hours. Add the well-beaten eggs and butter. 
Pour the mixture mto a buttered pan and bake until brown. 

The minute tapioca needs no soaking. 

OTHER PUDDINGS 

Puddings which require considerable cooking are usually better 
if prepared by the fireless method. Rice pudding will require 
about five hours. 

443 



FIRELESS COOKERY ri'^r^Kfu? 



Family of Four 



APPLE PIE 

Line the plate with the crust. On the bottom scatter a 
quarter of a cup of sugar mixed with a tablespoon of flour, laying 
apples carefully up to the desired thickness. Sprinkle sugar on 
the top and put in small pieces of butter. Place in the cooker, 
using both radiators, for about forty-five minutes. 

Any fruit pies can be baked in this manner. 

CHERRY PIE 

Stone ripe cherries; sweeten to taste; and sift a small quantity 
of flour over the fruit to thicken the juice. Bake in two crusts 
in the cooker for one hour. 



CUSTARD PIE 

Make a custard of two eggs, half a cup of sugar, a pint of 
milk, a little butter and flavoring. Make the paste in the usual 
way and put it in a round pie dish that will fit in the large com- 
partment. Fill in the usual way and bake in the cooker with 
two radiators, one above the pie and the other below it. 

LEMON PIE 

1 cup boiling water 1 cup sugar 

1 tablespoon cornstarch i/i cup butter 

1 tablespoon cold water 1 egg 

Juice and rind of 1 lemon 
Put the water into small saucepan and add cornstarch stirred 
smooth in cold water; when it boils after stirring, set off the 
stove and add butter and sugar, previously well stirred together. 
When cool add egg and lemon. Pour into crust in pan and re- 
move to cooker, using both radiators. This will bake in twenty 
minutes. After baking, cover with meringue and place in the 
cabinet to brown, again using both radiators. 

PUMPKIN PIE 

2 eggs well beaten 2 cups milk 

34 cup sugar II/2 cups cooked pumpkin 

Mix the ingredients; salt to taste, season with nutmeg, cinnamon, 
a little ginger and melted butter. Bake in the cooker one hour. 

444 



Planned for a 
Family of Four 



FIRELESS COOKERY 



FROZEN DESSERTS 

As the cooker retains cold as well as heat, any frozen dessert 
which does not require to be stirred — mousse or parfait, for 
instance — can be made in them. Set one pail inside of the other, 
filling the outer one with chopped ice and salt and the inner one 
with the prepared mixture. Let stand for about five hours. 



29 



443 



FIRELESS COOKERY ?L3tVf°L='. 



Family of Four 



pSSu^VfTo^ur FIRELESS COOKERY 



447 



FIRELESS COOKERY Fl^SroV^^^u' 



448 



PAPER-BAG COOKERY 



PAPER-BAG COOKERY 

IT would be absurd to claim that cooking in paper bags is to 
take the place of cooking by all other methods; but it appeals 
to many housewives as an economical, labor-saving method of 
preparing a meal. The sealed bag prevents loss of rich juices 
and flavors; prevents loss of weight in meats; and saves the 
washing of pots and pans — always a disagreeable task. Further, 
the paper bag, like the casserole and the fireless cooker, offers 
opportimity for economy in meats; for cuts of meat and poultry 
too tough for use by the old method are made tender by cooking 
in the paper bag. 

Success depends in large measure upon the bags, and it is safe 
to use only those manufactured for the purpose. These are 
odorless and entirely free from impvu-ities. A bag containing a 
break or hole should never be used and in cooking very juicy 
dishes it is sometimes wise to set the rack holding the bag on a 
shallow dish so that in case the bag should break there may be 
no loss of juices. Always place the seam side up. 

Select a bag that will conveniently hold the food — one that is 
neither too large nor too small. Grease it thoroughly on the 
inside, using butter or drippings. The grease makes the paper 
still more air-proof and is essential to the success of the process. 
Apply the grease with a brush, taking care to select one from 
which the bristles will not be likely to fall; or, better, put several 
tablespoons of melted grease in the bag; lay it flat on the table 
and press from the bottom upward until both sides are thor- 
oughly greased. 

When the food is prepared, put it in the bag carefully; fold 
the open end several times and fasten with paper clips or pins. 
Fold the corners at the other end of the bag also to insure against 

451 



PAPER-BAG COOKERY Fa"To1 '/Jur 

leakage. Do not crease with the finger nail or the paper may 
break in the oven. Some cooks moisten the bags to make them 
more pHable. 

Be sure that the oven is well heated when the food is put in. 
A gas oven should be lighted for at least ten minutes before using 
and the average oven heat should not be less than 200° F. On 
the other hand the oven should not be too hot, or the bags will 
char quickly and it will be almost impossible to remove the food. 

After the first fifteen minutes the heat should be slightly 
reduced; for long, slow cooking will secure a better result. Let 
the bag rest on a rack and not on the floor of the oven, as the 
air should circulate freely around it. If the oven shelves are 
solid, the bag should be elevated on a wire rack or broiler laid 
across a pan. The rack is a wise provision anyway, as it makes 
the removal of the bag easier. 

If the temperature is right the food will brown in the closed 
bag; but many cooks advise puncturing the bag when the pro- 
duct is nearly done in order to make the brown crust a certainty. 

If the bag should accidentally break before the food is done, 
place it in another bag or fold over the broken portion and fasten 
with paper clips. There is really small danger of breakage if 
the proper precautions are taken. 

To remove the food, open the door of the oven — very carefully 
if it is a gas oven, as a heavy jar will sometimes set fire to the 
paper; hold a flat board or platter in the left hand and slip the 
bag gently upon this. Open the bag and remove the contents. 

PANNED OYSTERS OR CLAMS 

Put the oysters or clams into a buttered bag and cook for about 
fifteen minutes. Add butter and seasoning and serve. 

BREADED OYSTERS 

Wash the oysters; dip them in beaten egg; roll in fine bread 
crumbs; put into a buttered bag with two tablespoons of melted 
butter; seal the bag and cook in a hot oven for about eight minutes. 

452 




HOT BREAD 
Tea Biscuit Com Muffins Tea Rolls 




Courtesy of the Union Ba^ and Pater Co 

HOW TO USE THE PAPER BAG 



FimSyVf"Fo1.r PAPER-BAG COOKERY 



BAKED FISH IN PAPER BAG 

Clean the fish in the usual way; season and roll in flour or corn 
meal. Place in a well-buttered bag and bake in a hot oven for 
about fifteen minutes. 

Haddock, cod or small fish are good cooked in this way. Serve 
with sauce like any other baked fish. 



SMELTS SUR LE PLAT 

Clean and wash the smelts; season and roll in flour. Place in 
a buttered bag with a small onion, a little lemon juice and water 
and a tablespoon of butter. Cook for about fifteen minutes. 



SPANISH MACKEREL IN BUTTER 

Take a choice fillet of mackerel; season and slip into a paper 
bag. Cover with fresh bread crumbs; pour drawn butter over 
the whole and cook for twenty minutes. When done, remove to 
platter; sprinkle with chopped parsley and serve. 



STUFFED FISH 

Haddock, bluefish, shad and bass are excellent stuffed and baked 
in paper bags. Make the stuffing in the usual way; stuff the fish 
and bake in a buttered bag for twenty minutes or more according 
to the size of the fish. 



ROAST QUAIL 

Clean the quail thoroughly, cover with thin slices of bacon; sea- 
son and put in a buttered bag, adding a little butter. Cook for 
eight minutes. 

ROAST CHICKEN 

Prepare the chicken as usual; spread over the breast butter or 
drippings; put in a paper bag; fold in the end and fasten with 
clips. Cook on a grid shelf in a moderately hot oven for about 
forty minutes, with potatoes if desired. Serve with a brown sauce 
made from the juices in the bag. 

453 



PAPER-BAG COOKERY fJ'X'oIfJu^ 

CHICKEN SAUTt 

Take the legs and wings of a chicken and season well; add two 
or three sprigs of parsley, broken into small pieces, and a small 
onion, chopped. Mix with a tablespoon of butter; put into a 
bag and cook for twenty-five minutes. 

MUTTON STEW 

2 pounds neck of mutton 1 tomato sliced 

1 chopped onion Salt and pepper 

1 potato cut in cubes 1 tablespoon flour 

1 carrot cut in cubes % cup cold water 

Cut the mutton into small pieces and mix thoroughly with the 
other ingredients. Pour into a greased paper bag and cook for 
about half an hour. 

MUTTON CUTLETS 

Cut the best end of a neck of mutton into cutlets; flatten and 
trim neatly. Season with salt and pepper and place in a well- 
buttered bag; fold in the ends; fasten with clips and cook in a 
moderate oven from twelve to fifteen minutes. 

BEEF STEW 

2 pounds round beef Salt and pepper 

10 mushrooms 1 cup brown sauce 

10 small onions 3 tablespoons currant jeUy 

Cut the beef into two-inch cubes; put with the other ingredients 
into a well-greased paper bag and cook for about one hour. 

BEEF LOAF 

Follow the recipe given in the chapter on " Meats,' ' but bake 
in a well-buttered paper bag. Make a brown sauce from the juices 
that are in the bag. 

ROAST BEEF WITH POTATOES 

Wipe the meat with a wet cloth; sprinkle with salt and pepper 
and put in a well-buttered paper bag. Add pared potatoes and 
two ounces of butter; close the bag and bake, allowing one hour 
to four pounds of beef. 

454 



gL''.gSr'of''Fo''ur PAPER-BAG COOKERY 

SCALLOPED SWEETBREADS 

1 pair sweetbreads 1 tablespoon butter 

1 egg Bread crumbs 

Salt, pepper and flour 

Cut the sweetbreads in half lengthwise; season and dust with 
flour. Dip in beaten egg; roll in bread crumbs and put into a 
greased paper bag together with the butter. Cook thirty-five 
minutes. 

KIDNEY 

Lamb or veal kidney 2 tablespoons currant jelly 

6 mushrooms 2 tablespoons brown sauce 

Wash the kidney as usual; cut into thick slices; put in a but- 
tered bag; cover with sliced mushrooms; add jelly and browu 
sauce and cook for ten minutes. 

STEAMED CAULIFLOWER 

Wash the cauliflower carefully and place it in a buttered bag 
with two tablespoons of milk. If desired brown, spread the cauH- 
flower with butter. Cook in a very hot_oven for forty-five minutes. 

STEAMED TURNIPS 

Wash and pare the turnips and cut them into small pieces; 
add several tablespoons of butter; put in a buttered bag and cook 
for about twenty-five minutes. Serve with cream sauce. 

STEAMED CARROTS 

Wash and scrape the carrots and put them whole into a well- 
greased bag. Add one teaspoon of water for each carrot and cook 
for about thirty minutes. Serve with cream sauce. 

GREEN PEAS 

1 pint peas 1/2 tablespoon butter 

V4 teaspoon salt Pepper 

1/2 teaspoon sugar 1/2 cup water 

Mix the ingredients; pour into a greased bag and cook for about 
thirty-five minutes. 

455 



PAPER-BAG COOKERY p"^tr^„1iSf" 



Family of Four 



BAKED TOMATOES 

6 tomatoes 2 tablespoons fine bread cnunbs 

Salt and pepper 1 tablespoon butter 

Cut the tomatoes in half; sprinkle with salt, pepper and bread 
crumbs and bits of butter. Put in a greased bag and bake about 
twenty minutes. 

POTATO CHIPS 

Wash and peel several potatoes; cut them into very thin slices 
and dry thoroughly in a cloth. Put into a well-buttered bag; 
fasten with clips and place on a grid shelf in a hot oven. The 
chips should be crisp in about fifteen minutes. Turn the bag 
several times during the cooking. Season the chips and serve. 

SAUTE POTATOES 

Peel cold potatoes and cut into thin slices; seasoning with pep- 
per and salt; and mix thoroughly with melted butter. Put in a 
buttered paper bag and cook about twenty minutes, turning the 
bag several times. 



456 



?iZ"ifoJ"L''ur PAPER-BAG COOKERY 



Family of Four 



457 



J>APER-BAG COOKERY F^"v"^n"" 



458 



CHAFING-DISH COOKERY 



CHAFING-DISH COOKERY 

THE frying pan "that got into society" is too familiar to need 
an introduction, and where there are few servants it does 
occasionally make the serving of evening refreshments easier. At 
any rate the chafing dish has gained wide popularity, and nearly 
every woman who entertains is on the lookout for new recipes. 

A few practical suggestions may be worth while : 

Be sure that the lamp is filled and in working order. 

Place the dish on a tray to protect the table from fire. 

Have all the ingredients ready. 

Use the hot-water pan only when the preparation requires steam- 
ing or will be likely to burn. 

To cook quickly or to cook anything brown use only the blazer, 
and have it hot before turning in the food. 

BOUILLON 

2 teaspoons beef extract Salt and pepper 

Vi teaspoon onion juice Pinch of mace 

1 quart water 

Heat the water; add the extract and seasonings. Serve in 
bouillon cups, with salted wafers. 

SHRIMP WIGGLE 

1 cup canned peas 1 tablespoon flour 

1 small can shrimps 1 cup milk 

1 tablespoon butter Vz teaspoon salt 

Dash of red pepper 

Melt the butter; stir in the flour and seasoning; then add 
the milk gradually. When it thickens empty into it the peas 
and shrimps; cover and when heated through serve in patty cups 
or on crackers. 

30 461 



CHAFING-DISH COOKERY 



Planned for a 
Family of Four 



CREAM OF TOMATO 

1 can tomato soup 1 cup cream or milk 

Heat the soup; stir in the cream or milk, preferably hot; 
add more seasoning if needed and a small piece of butter if milk 
is used instead of cream. Serve with salted wafers or buttered 
toast. 

mNKTUM DITTY 



2 tablespoons butter 
2 cups grated cheese 
1 cup tomatoes 
Vi teaspoon soda 



Dash of paprika 
Salt 

Worcestershire sauce 
1 egg 



Melt the cheese in the butter; add the tomatoes, soda and 
seasoning, then the egg, well beaten. Serve on toast or crackers. 

CHICKEN HOLLANDAISE 



1 cup cold chicken 

2 tablespoons butter 
Salt and paprika 



1 tablespoon lemon juice 
Vi cup 
1 egg 



Cook the chicken in the butter for five minutes; add the 
seasoning and lemon juice. When thoroughly mixed add the 
milk and the egg, well beaten. Stir until it thickens and serve 
in patty cups or on crackers. 



ENGLISH MONKEY 



1/2 cup bread crumbs 

1/2 cup milk 

1 teaspoon butter 



Salt and red pepper 
1 egg 



Soak the crumbs in the milk for twenty minutes. Melt 
the cheese in the butter; add the seasoning; stir in the soaked 
bread crumbs and cook several minutes. Then add the egg, well 
beaten, and as soon as that is stirred in serve on toasted soda 
crackers. 

WELSH RAREBIT 

1 tablespoon butter 1 egg 

1 pound American cheese Vz teaspoon mustard 

Vz cup miiir 1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce 

Salt and red pepper 

Chop the cheese into fine pieces and melt them in the butter. 
Stir constantly and gradually add the milk. Beat the egg; mix 

462 



teyVf°Fo'ur CHAFING-DISH COOKERY 

well with the seasoning and stir into the chafing dish. When 
the whole mixture is thoroughly heated pour it over toasted bread 
or crackers. 

MEXICAN RAREBIT 

Vi tablespoon butter 1 pint can tomatoes 

1 small onion 1 egg 

Salt and red pepper 

Cut the onion in small pieces and fry in the butter until 
brown. Then add the tomatoes and seasoning and cook until 
the tomatoes are tender. Just before serving add the egg, well 
beaten. Serve on toasted crackers. 



MACARONI RAREBIT 

1 cup boiled macaroni Vz teaspoon mustard 

1 tablespoon butter V2 teaspoon paprika 
1/2 cup grated cheese 2 eggs 

1/2 teaspoon salt 1/2 cup milk 

Squares of buttered toast 

Heat the boiled macaroni in the butter, with the cheese and 
seasonings. When hot and the cheese melted, add the eggs, well 
beaten in the milk. Stir until the rarebit thickens and serve on 
toast. 

MT. CLEMENS RAREBIT 

6 ounces American cheese 2 chopped green peppers 

2 ounces butter V2 can red kidney beans 

Squares of buttered toast 

Melt the cheese; add the butter, then the pepper, and last, 
the beans. When thoroughly hot serve on buttered toast. 



CURRIED EGGS 

4 hard-boiled eggs V^ teaspoon curry powder 

1 cup cream sauce Salt and pepper 

Chop the eggs; heat thoroughly in the sauce; add curry 
powder, more salt and pepper, and serve in patty shells or on 
squares of buttered toast. 

463 



CHAFING-DISH COOKERY 



Planned for a 
Family of Four 



STIRRED EGGS 

1 tablespoon butter 

1/2 cup brown sauce V2 saltspoon pepper 

5 eggs 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

Buttered toast 

Melt the butter; add the gravy; when hot stir in the beaten 
eggs. Season and stir until the eggs thicken. Serve on toast and 
sprinkle with parsley. 

TOMATO SCRAMBLE 

1 tablespoon butter 1/2 teaspoon salt 

4 eggs 1/2 saltspoon pepper 

4 tablespoons milk 1 cup canned tomatoes 

Melt the butter; stir in the eggs, well beaten with the milk; 
add the tomatoes after they have been drained; season and cook 
until the eggs thicken. 

STOCK SCRAMBLE 

1 cup stock 1/2 sweet green pepper 

1/2 onion 6 eggs 

Salt and red pepper 

Beat the eggs very thoroughly in a shallow bowl. Place 
the stock in the chafing dish together with the onion and pepper, 
both finely chopped; cover and when hot throw in the eggs and 
scramble slightly. Season and serve with thin slices of bread 
and butter. 

CHEESE SCRAMBLE 

6 eggs 1 tablespoon butter 
4 tablespoons milk 1 cup broken cheese 

Salt and pepper 

Beat the eggs thoroughly and stir into them the milk and 
seasoning. Melt the butter in the chafing dish; pour in the eggs 
aad milk; then the cheese. Stir occasionally until the eggs are 
cooked. Serve with crisp crackers. 

TERRAPIN 

The prepared terrapin is best for use in the chafing dish and 
needs only to be thoroughly heated and seasoned. Add a little 
currant jelly and serve. 

464 



?l?^lie''„J''L''ur CHAFING-DISH COOKERY 



Family of Four 



OYSTER PAN-ROAST 

1 tablespoon butter Salt and pepper 

1 pint oysters 6 slices buttered toast 

Put the butter in the chafing dish and when it melts add tlie 
oysters, washed, and the juice which has come from them, strained. 
Season; cover; cook for two minutes and serve on the buttered 
toast. 

CREAMED OYSTERS AND CELERY 

1 pint oysters 

2 tablespoons butter 
2 tablespoons flour 
Milk Squares of buttered toast 

1/2 cup chopped celery 

Cook the oysters in their own hquor; skim; drain and 
reserve the liquor. Cook the flour in the butter; stir in gradually 
the oyster juice, to which milk has been added to make one and a 
half cups. Stir until the sauce thickens; reheat the oysters; 
season and serve on squares of buttered toast, sprinkling chopped 
celery over all. 

PANNED OYSTERS 
25 oysteis 2 tablespoons currant jelly 

1 tablespoon butter Salt and pepper 

Squares of toast 

Melt the butter in the chafing dish; add the oysters and cook 
imtil the edges begin to curl; add the jelly; season and serve 
on small squares of toast. 

ROASTED OYSTERS 

Purchase oysters in the shell and wash them carefully in running 
water, using a stiff brush. Place them in a pan with the deep half 
of the shell down; put in a hot oven and bake untill the shells 
open. Take the oysters out with a sharp knife and toss them into 
a chafing dish, with pepper, salt and butter. Cover closely; bring 
to a boil and serve. 

PIGS IN BLANKETS 

Take as many oysters as you wish; wash and dry them. 
Roll each in a slice of thin bacon and fasten the ends with a wooden 
toothpick. Place them in the chafing dish and cook until the 
bacon is crisp. 

465 



CHAFING-DISH COOKERY Fa^X^f ^/o^u? 

LOBSTER A LA CRfeME 

11/2 cups boUed lobster 1/2 cup water 

1 tablespoon butter Yolks of 3 eggs 

Salt and pepper 1 cup cream 

Cut the lobster meat into small pieces and put it in the chafing 
dish with the butter, seasoning thoroughly. Pour the water over 
it; cook ten minutes; add the beaten yolks of the eggs and the 
cream. Bring all to a boil and serve. 

LOBSTER STEW 

1 small lobster Pinch of soda 

3 cups milk 3 buttered crackers 

Salt and pepper 1 tablespoon butter 

1 tablespoon flour 

Cut the lobster meat into small bits. Scald the milk, stirring 
in the seasoning and soda. Dip the toasted buttered crackers 
in the hot milk and keep them warm. Add the butter and flour 
well rubbed together to the milk, and when it thickens add the 
lobster. Cook for five minutes and pour over the crackers. 

DEVILED LOBSTER 

2 cups boiled lobster 14 teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon curry powder V2 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce 

1 teaspoon mustard 4 tablespoons butter 

Lettuce 

Cut the lobster into small pieces; mix thoroughly with the 
one tablespoon of butter and the seasonings. Melt the rest of 
the butter; cook the lobster in it and serve on fresh lettuce leaves. 

CLAMS A LA CRIJME 

1 pint clams Yolks of 2 eggs 

2 tablespoons butter 14 cup cream 
Salt, pepper and nutmeg Buttered toast 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

Separate the hard from the soft parts of the clams and chop 
the hard parts fine. Melt the butter in the chafing dish; add a 
little salt, pepper and grated nutmeg, then the clams; bring all 
to a boil. Beat together the eggs and the cream; stir into the hot 
mixture; bring to a boil and serve on squares of buttered toast. 
Sprinkle the parsley lightly over the top. 

466 



FJmSr'of'Four CHAFING-DISH COOKERY 

CRAB A LA CRilME 
Prepare the same as Lobster a la Creme. 

SHRIMP A LA CRfeME 
Prepare the same as Lobster a la Creme. 

CLAM AND EGG SCRAMBLE 

1 dozen clams 4 tablespoons clam juice 

S eggs 1 tablespoon butter 

Salt and pepper 

Wash and scrub the clams; put them in a saucepan with half 
a cup of water; cover closely and cook until the shells open. Re- 
move the clams and save the juice for bouillon or other purposes. 
Chop the clams fine. Beat the eggs slightly; add the clams and 
four tablespoons of the juice. Melt the butter in the chafing 
dish; turn in the mixture and stir over hot water until cooked to a 
soft scramble. Dust with salt and pepper and serve. 

CLAM TOAST 

1 dozen small clams V4 cup scalded milk 

1 egg yolk 4 slices buttered toast 

Salt and pepper 

Clean the clams; cut them into small pieces and simmer a 
few minutes. Beat the egg yolk; add slowly to the scalded 
milk; combine with the clams and just before serving add the 
seasoning. Pour over buttered toast. 

CANVAS-BACE DUCKS 

Roast the ducks for twenty -minutes; serve whole; carve 
them at the table; lay them in the chafing dish with red pepper, 
salt, a large piece of butter, half a glass of currant jelly and an 
equal quantity of grape juice. Simmer a few minutes and serve. 

SARDINE SAVORY 

1 box sardines Anchovy essence 

1 cup brown sauce 1 tablespoon sardine oil 

Remove the sardines from the box and heat them thoroughly 
in the brown sauce; season with anchovy essence and sardine 
oil. Serve with egg sandwiches made from graham or rye bread. 

467 



CHAFING-DISH COOKERY F^^Sy^FVu^ 

CREAMED SARDINES 

1 box sardines 1 chopped hard-boiled egg 

1 cup cream sauce 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

Drain the sardines from their oil, and if they are not boneless, 
remove the bones. Heat thoroughly in the sauce; add the egg 
and parsley; serve on squares of toasted bread or crackers. 

FROG SADDLES 

Frogs' legs V2 cup cream 

3 tablespoons butter Salt and pepper 

1 tablespoon flour Few gratings of nutmeg 

Melt the butter; add the flour; stir until smooth; add the 
cream gradually and stir until boiling. Put in the legs; season 
and cover; cook twenty minutes, adding more cream if necessary. 

QUAIL 

2 plimip quail 1 teaspoon onion 
2 tablespoons butter Salt and pepper 
J4 cup seasoned broth Celery salt 

V2 cup cunant jelly 1 tablespoon mushroom catsup 

Split the birds open down the back. Put the butter in the 
chafing dish and brown slightly; put in the birds and cook about 
ten minutes, turning once. WTien nicely browned add the broth, 
jelly, catsup, onion juice and other seasonings. 

FRIZZLE-DIZZLE 

2 oimces smoked dried beef 3 eggs 

2 tablespoons butter 2 tablespoons grated cheese 

Dash of red pepper 

Remove all fat and gristle from the beef; tear into small 
pieces and cook slightly in the butter. Add the beaten eggs, 
cheese and red pepper; scramble and serve with crisp crackers. 

VEAL WITH ASPARAGUS TIPS 

2 cups cooked veal Yolks of 2 hard-boiled eggs 

1 cup cooked asparagus tips 1 cup milk 

1 tablespoon butter Salt and pepper 

Rub the yolks and butter to a paste; heat with the milk in 
the chafing dish, stirring until thoroughly mixed. Put in the 
veal and asparagus; season; cook five minutes and serve. 

468 




Courtesy of The Fleischmann Co. 

RAISED WITH COMPRESSED YEAST 



F',mUy''of°Fj'ur CHAFING-DISH COOKERY 

DEVILED MEAT 

Cold mutton, chicken or other meat 1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce 
I tablespoon butter Vi teaspoon mustard 

1 teaspoon vinegar Dash of cayeime 

Make a sauce of the butter, vinegar and seasonings. Make 
cuts in the meat; rub the sauce into them; and grill in a hot 
chafing dish that has been rubbed with a little butter. 

BEEF CHAUFFE 

Slices of cold roast beef 3 tablespoons jelly 

1 tablespoon butter Salt and red pepper 

14 cup water 

Melt the butter; add the jelly, seasonings, water and beef. 
Cover and cook until the beef is thoroughly hot. 

MUSHROOMS WITH BACON 

8 slices bacon Mushrooms 

Fry the bacon in the usual way; just before it is done add the 
mushroons; fry and serve. 

TOMATO CURRY 

2 cups tomatoes 1 tablespoon curry 
1 tablespoon butter Salt and red pepper 
1 tablespoon flour Pinch of soda 

1 cup cream 

Cook the tomatoes in the chafing dish; add the flour, welJ 
rubbed in the butter, also the curry, salt and a dash of red pepper. 
When the mixture thickens add a pinch of soda; stir and add the 
cream. Serve on toasted bread or crackers. 



A!b) 



MACARONI MILANAISE 

2 tablespoons butter Vi cup brown stock 

1 tablespoon flour 1/2 cup strained tomatoes 

14 teaspoon salt 1 cup cooked macaroni 

1/4 teaspoon paprika V4 cup Parmesan cheese 

Make a sauce of the first six ingredients; add the macaroni 
and when that is hot, the cheese. Lift and relift the macaroni 
until it is thoroughly blended- with the mixture. 

469 



CHAFING-DISH COOKERY F,^XtgF,'i5^ 

APPLE DAINTY 

4 tart apples 1 tablespoon granulated sugar 

Juice of V2 lemon 1 tablespoon butter 

Dash of nutmeg 2 tablespoons powdered sugar 

1 teaspoon cinnamon 

Pare and core the apples; cut them into slices half an inch 
thick; cook with the lemon, nutmeg and granulated sugar, keeping 
the cover on the pan. When tender, saute in butter; dust with 
powdered sugar and cinnamon and serve. 

FIG DAINTY 

Vi pound whole figs Dash of nutmeg 

1/2 cup chopped nuts 3 tablespoons sugar 

Juice of 1/2 lemon 14 cup water 

Mix the ingredients; cover and cook until tender. Serve 
with coffee and plain bread and butter sandwiches. 

SALTED ALMONDS 

i tablespoon olive oil V^ pound almonds 

Salt 

Heat the oil; add the blanched almonds (which must be 
dry); cook to a delicate brown, shaking the dish constantly and 
stirring to prevent burning. Drain the almonds on paper, sprin- 
kling them with fine salt. 

CANDY 

Fudge, pinoche, pralines and many other kinds of candy may 
be made in the chafing dish. See chapter on " Candy." 



470 



FSSS^ofVur CHAFING-DISH COOKERY 



471 



CHAFING-DISH COOKERY FilX"1>VF"o'u? 



Faintly of Four 



472 



CASSEROLE COOKERY 



CASSEROLE COOKERY 

THE importance of casserole cookery can scarcely be over-em- 
phasized in this day of high cost of living. Some foods are 
necessarily better if cooked by a long slow process, and cheaper 
foods are rendered more palatable than expensive ones. The 
earthenware dishes, moreover, are always attractive, whether 
encased in silver or not. The quaint artistic shapes make even 
a very common article of food look interesting and attractive. 

The French, who have gained a name for econoi^y in household 
matters, have reduced casserole cooking to a science; and it would 
be worth the while of any American housekeeper to see what others 
have done. Then, if she is thrifty, she will serve instead of sirloin 
steak at thirty cents a pound, rump steak en casserole at twenty. 
Instead of roasting she will buy stewing meats, at about half the 
price; instead of an untempting hash she wiU have some dainty, 
tasty viand (made from left-overs) in ramekins. And her family 
will in no wise suffer by her economy. 

All casserole and ramekin foods are served in the dishes in which 
they are cooked; so there is no loss of heat in transference. There 
is also economy in pans and dishes, if that is a consideration. The 
ramekins should rest upon paper or linen doilies. 

CHICKEN EN CASSEROLE 

1 chicken 1 carrot cut in cubes 

2 tablespoons butter 2 potatoes cut in cubes 
2 cups hot water 3 small onions sliced 

6 mushrooms Salt and pepper 

Flour and water 

Prepare the chicken as for fricassee; saut6 in butter in a 
frying pan; transfer to casserole; add hot water and cook in a 
moderate oven for about one hour and a quarter. Before the 

475 



CASSEROLE COOKERY FamUyrfFou? 



time is up saute the vegetables in butter until brown; remove 
to the casserole; add the seasoning; cover and return to the oven 
for another half hour. To retain the flavor press dough upon the 
dish where vessel and cover meet; remove before serving. 

BEEFSTEAK EN CASSEROLE 

1 pound round steak 1 bay leaf 

2 carrots cut in cubes Vi tablespoon kitchen bouquet 
2 turnips cut in cubes IVi cups boiling water 

Vz dozen tiny onions Salt and pepper 

Have the steak one or one and a half inches thick; leave it 
whole or cut it into large square pieces; sear on both sides in a 
hot frying pan; then remove to the casserole, with the other 
ingredients. Cover and cook gently for about an hour and a half. 

The sticking piece, shinbone and brisket may also be served 
en casserole, but will require longer cooking. 

LAMB EN CASSEROLE 

1 pound lamb (fresh or cooked) 2 tablespoons chopped onion 
Butter 1 tablespoon drippings 

Salt and pepper 1 potato cut in cubes 

2 carrots cut in cubes 1 cup brown sauce 

1 tablespoon currant jelly 

Have the lamb cut in a slice or slices one or one and a half 
inches thick; sear in a frying pan; put in the casserole, brushing 
first with butter and seasoning. Cook until tender; parboil 
the carrots and saute them in the drippings with the onion; add 
the carrots, the potatoes and brown sauce to the meat; cook until 
the potatoes and carrots are tender and serve from the casserole. 

CASSEROLE ROAST 

3 or 4 pounds beef Vi onion 

Slice of salt pork A few peppercorns 

Vi carrot Stalk of celery chopped 

Vi turnip 2 cups water or stock 

For this roast select beef from the round or rump. Render 
out the pork; brown the meat on both sides in the fat. Chop 
the vegetables; put the meat in the casserole with the vegetables 
around it; add the water or stock and cook in a hot oven for 
three hours, basting occasionally. When done make a brown 
sauce, using the juice left in the casserole. 

476 



FamUr'of°Fo'ur CASSEROLE COOKERY 

CASSEROLE HASH 

Vi pound macaroni Grated cheese 

Butter Cold chopped meat 

Brown sauce or stock 

Boil the macaroni; drain and put it in a buttered casserole 
with a little butter and grated cheese. Push the macaroni to the 
sides of the dish; fill the center with the meat, well seasoned and 
moistened with brown sauce or meat stock. Place in the oven 
until hot throughout and serve. 



BAKED BEANS EN CASSEROLE 
See recipe in chapter on "Meat Substitutes." 

MACARONI IN RAMEKINS 

See recipe for Baked Macaroni with Cheese in chapter on " Meat 
Substitutes"; but bake in ramekins. 

RICE IN RAMEKINS 

See recipe for Baked Rice in chapter on "Meat Substitutes"; 
but bake in ramekins. 

BROWN FRICASSEE OF OYSTERS 

2 tablespoons butter Vz cup oyster juice 

2 tablespoons flour Vi cup cream 

2 slices onion 25 oysters 

Sprig of parsley Salt 

Buttered bread crumbs 

Scald the oysters in their own liquor and drain. Cook the 
flour in the butter; add the onion and brown; add parsley and 
oyster juice; cook until it thickens and add the cream. Add 
oysters and salt; pour into ramekins; cover with fine crumbs 
and brown in the oven. 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS IN RAMEKINS 
Follow the recipe for Scalloped Oysters given in the chapter 
on "Fish"; but use ramekins for baking. 
31 477 



CASSEROLE COOKERY FamX" 11 ?oVr 



HALIBUT AU GRATIN 



IV2 cups cooked halibut l'/2 cups cream sauce 

3 hard-boiled eggs 1 cup cracker crumbs 

4 tablespoons butter 

Pick the halibut into small pieces; crush the yolks of the eggs 
and chop the whites into small pieces. Stir fish and eggs into 
the hot cream sauce. Fill ramekins with the mixture; cover with 
crumbs and bits of butter and brown in the oven. 

SALMON AU GRATIN 
Prepare the same as Halibut au Gratin. 

EGGS IN RAMEKINS 

In the bottom of each ramekin put a small piece of butter and 
a few fine bread crumbs; break an egg into each; season and 
bake until the egg is set. 

CHICKEN IN RAMEKINS 

IVi cups cold chicken Few gratings of nutmeg 

1 cup cream sauce Buttered bread crumbs 

Mix the chicken thoroughly with the cream sauce; add the 
nutmeg and empty into buttered ramekins. Cover ^ath buttered 
bread crumbs and bake until brown. 

Cold beef, lamb and veal may be served in the same manner. 

SHIN MEAT EN CASSEROLE 

2 pounds shinbone 1 teaspoon salt 

2 cups carrots 1 cup boiling water 

1/2 cup onion 1/2 saltspoon pepper 

1 cup celery 1 tablespoon flour 

Cut the meat from the bone in two-inch pieces; remove the 
marrow from bone. Put part of the marrow into the bottom of 
the casserole, then haK the meat, half the vegetables, the rest of 
meat and seasoning and the marrow over the top; place in hot 
oven twenty minutes, covered. Add one cup boiling water; cover; 
reduce the heat and let bake slowly two and a, half hours, or imtil 
tender, in bottom of oven. Once or twice water must be added. 
When the meat is tender, add the flour mixed with a little cold 
water, 

478 



rZSv''of°Fo"ur CASSEROLE COOKERY 



SWEETBREADS EN CASSEROLE 

2 pair sweetbreads Vi cup celery, onion and carrot, chopped 

12 lardoons salt pork 6 mushroom caps 

4 tablespoons butter i/2 cup thick cream 

1 cup veal broth Salt and paprika 

1 pint cooked peas 

Let the sweetbreads stand an hour or longer in cold water, 
changing the water several times and removing unedible por- 
tions; drain, cover with boiling water, and let simmer ten min- 
utes; let chill in cold water; then draw into the best side of 
each lardoons of fat salt pork. Melt the butter in a frying pan 
and in this bro'mi the sweetbreads; set in the casserole; add veal 
broth (highly seasoned with half a cup of cut celery, onion and 
carrot, tied in a muslin for removal) to half cover the sweet- 
breads; cover with Hd and let simmer in the oven nearly an hour. 
Saute mushroom caps in butter and add these to the casserole; 
let cook fifteen minutes, when the broth should be well reduced; 
add cream, salt and paprika to season and hot cooked peas, 
letting the peas settle to the bottom of the dish and drawing the 
sweetbreads and mushrooms above them. 



VEAL COLLOPS EN CASSEROLE 

2 pounds veal (from leg) 2 sprigs parsley 

2 bits of salt pork Water 

4 tablespoons pork fat 1 green pepper, chopped 

1 onion 1 tablespoon butter 

4 cloves 3 tomatoes 

Salt to taste 

Have the veal cut in slices about three-fourths of an inch in 
thickness; cut these in pieces for serving, and mto each draw 
a bit of salt pork. Cook hot pork fat until nicely browned; 
remove to the casserole and add an onion into which foiu- cloves 
have been pressed, parsley, and stock or boihng water nearly to 
cover the veal. Saute a green pepper, chopped fine, in a table- 
spoon of butter, and add this, with the tomatoes cut m pieces, 
also salt to season; cover the dish, and let cook in a moderate 
oven about an hour and a half. If desired the hquid may be 
thickened with flour mixed with cold water to a thin paste. 
Remove the onion and parsley before serving. 

479 



CASSEROLE COOKERY FrX" o1 fJu? 



Family of Four 



480 



MENUS 



The United States Department of Agriculture, in an interesting 
bulletin on "The Functions and Uses of Food," analyzes a menu 
for a family of four adults for one day — the standard: man at 
moderate muscular work. 



Food materials 


Weighti 


Protein 


Fuel 
value 


BEEAKFAST 

Oatmeal: 


Pounds 


Ounces 
8 
6 
3 
8 
8 
2 


Pounds 

0.081 

.012 

'.240 ■ 
.046 
.001 
.010 


Calories 


Milk 




117 










1 


1,629 
592 


Bread 


Butter . . 




431 


Coffee* 




381 










Total 






.390 


4,394 


LUNCHEON 

Bread 




12 
3 

12 
8 


.069 
.002 
.006 
.032 


887 


Butter 










218 


Cake 




813 








Total 






.109 


2,665 








DINNER 


1 
1 


12 

'"ik" 

6 

2 

4 
4 
6 
3 


.277 
.018 
.011 
.036 
.001 

,020 
.033 
.012 

Voio ' 


1,384 
303 


Potatoes 






Bread 




444 


Butter 






Rice pudding: 

Rice 




398 


Eess 




163 


m^..: 




117 






340 


Tea 




381 










Total 






.417 


4,286 








.916 

.229 


11,245 

2 811 

















* Coffee and tea in themselves have little or no nutritive value. In the menu, allowance is made 
for the milk or cream and the sugar that would ordinarily be added. 

The American dietary standard for a man at moderate muscular 
work calls for 0.28 pound protein and 3,400 calories of energ}^ 
The following food must therefore be added to bring the day's 
menu up to the dietary standard: 



Food materials 


Weight 


Protein 


Fuel 
value 


Cheese 


Ounces 
4 
10 

4 


Pound 

0.065 

.141 

.005 


Calories 
469 


Beans 


976 


Pork 


879 










.211 


2,324 









481 



MENUS 



AVERAGE COMPOSITION OF AMERICAN FOOD PRODUCTS 



Food materials (as purchased) 


Refuse 


Water 


Pro- 

tein 


Fat 


Car bo- 

by. 
dratea 


Ash 


Fuel 

value 

per 

pound 


ANIMAL FOOD 

Beef: 

Chuck, including shoulder 


Per d, 
17,3 
19.1 
6.6 
13.3 
12.7 
12.8 
31.2 
20.1 


Per d. 
54.0 
53.8 
56.1 
52.9 
52.4 
54.0 
45.3 
45.3 
64.8 
62.5 
48.9 
43.2 
57.0 
49.5 
52.0 
49.2 
68.9 
63.7 
51.8 
51.8 

52.5 
63.4 
68.3 
54.2 
66.2 

39.0 
51.9 
46.8 
41.6 
43.3 

45.5 
50.3 

48.5 
45.1 
40.8 
44.9 
66.5 
35.8 
30.7 
7.9 
18.4 

55.2 
22.2 
57.2 

88.6 
92.9 
84.5 
90.0 

43.7 
47.1 
38.5 
42.4 


Per d. 
15.8 
15,3 
18,6 
16,4 
19,1 
16,5 
14.2 
14,4 
19.4 
19.2 
15.2 
13,2 
16.6 
14.4 
16.1 
14.3 
11.9 
26.4 
25.6 
26.3 

16.7 
18.3 
20.1 
16.1 
16.2 

13.8 
16.4 
13.7 
12.3 
13.0 

15,4 
16,0 

15,1 
14,3 
13.2 
12.0 
18.9 
14.5 
12,6 

1,9 

9.6 

18.2 
27.9 
19.0 

2.1 
4.4 
4,6 
1,8 

12.8- 
13.7 
13.4 
16.1 


Per d. 
12.5 
11.1 
19.9 
10,9 
17,9 
10.1 

9,2 
20.0 
15,6 

9,2 
18.6 

5.2 

8,4 
15.1 
15.4 
23,8 
19,2 

6.9 
22.6 
18.7 

8.2 
5.8 
7.5 
6.0 
6.6 

36.9 
14.5 
17.1 

24.6 
24.0 

19.1 
19.7 

18.6 
29.7 
26.0 
29.8 
13.0 
33.2 
33.0 
80.2 
59.4 

19.7 
40.4 
18.6 

2.8 

.4 

4.3 

1.1 

1.4 

12.3 
29.8 
18.4 


Per d. 

"'i'.i' ' 

6.0 
1,1 
6.5 
5.6 


Per d. 
0.7 
.3 
.8 
.9 
.8 
.9 
.7 
.7 
.9 

1.0 
.8 
.6 
.9 
.7 
.8 

4.6 

4.3 

8.9 

1.3 

4.0 

.8 
1.0 
1.0 

.7 
.8 

.6 
.8 

.7 
.7 
.7 

.8 
.9 

.7 

.8 

.8 

.7 
1.0 
4.2 
5.0 
3.9 
4.5 

3.8 
7.3 
3,4 

1.5 
1.2 
1.1 
1.6 

.7 
.7 
.7 
.8 


Per d. 
791 


Flank 


1,141 






1,069 




Neck 


629 


Ribs . . 


1,009 
978 


Rib rolls 




8.6 
19,0 
38.3 
17.4 
20.6 
16.3 
8.4 
6.0 
4.7 




Rump 


1,027 


Shank 




638 




871 


Hind quarter 


914 




1,220 

991 

767 

1,371 

1,232 

616 
666 
667 
616 




Dried, salted, and smoked 






Veal: 


23.3 
11.7 
3.4 
24.6 
20.7 

9.9 
17.7 
22.1 
21.2 
19.3 

19,1 
13.8 

18.0 
10.3 
19.3 

12.4 


Leg 










Mutton: 

Flank 


1,740 

865 

939 

1,212 

1,205 

1,050 
1,086 

1,025 
1,468 
1,289 
1,421 
868 
1,603 
1,561 
3,514 
2,570 

1,196 
2,137 
1,126 

242 
116 
357 
179 

289 

745 

1,446 

1,035 








Hind quarter, without tallow 

Lamb: 

Breast 




Poi-k: 

Flank 


Ham 










12.2 
18.9 




Salt pork 




8.7 

3,3 
3,9 


Sau.sage: 




Frankfort. ... 


Soup.s: 




Beef 












Poultry: 


41.6 
26.9 
17.6 
22.7 




Goose 


Turkey 





482 



MENUS 



Food materials (as pvirchased) 


Refuse 


Water 


Pro- 
tein 


Fat 


Carbo- 
hy- 
drates 


Ash 


Fuel 

value 

pound 


Fish: 


Per ct. 
29.9 
17.7 
44.7 
35.1 
50.1 


Per ct. 
58.6 
61.9. 
40.4 
50.7 
35.2 
71.2 
40.2 

66.8 
58. 6 

88.3 
80.8 
36.7 
30,7 
65.5 

11.0 
87.0 
90.6 
91.0 
26.9 
74.0 
27.4 
34.2 

11.4 
11.3 

12.0 
12.0 
10.1 
13.6 
12.6 
7.3 
12.3 
11.4 


Per d. 
11.1 
15.3 
10.2 
12.8 
9.4 
20.9 
10.0 

19.6 

23,7 

0.0 
10.6 
7.9 
5.9 
13.1 

1.0 
3.3 
3.4 
3.0 
8.8 
2.5 
27.7 
25.9 

13.8 
13.3 

11.4 

14.0 

11. 1 

6.4 

9.2 

16.1 

8.0 

.4 


Per ct. 

.2 
4.4 
4.2 

.7 
4.8 
3.8 

.4 

7,5 
12,1 

1.3 
1.1 

0.9 

.7 
9.3 

85.0 

4.0 

.3 

.6 

8.3 

18.6 

30.8 

33.7 

.9 

2.2 

1.0 
1.9 
1.7 
1,2 
1.9 
7.2 
.3 
.1 


Per ct. 

"2'6" 
18.5 

3.3 

5.2 
0.6 

"s'.o" 

6.1 
4.8 
54.1 
4.5 
4.1 
2.4 

71.9 
71.4 

76.1 
71.2 
76.5 
77.9 
75.4 
67.5 
79.0 
88.0 
90.0 

63.1 
47.1 
62.1 
49.7 
63.2 
63.3 
69.7 
70.5 
73.1 
74.1 

69.3 
96.0 
100.0 
71.4 

69.6 

22.0 

6.9 


Per ct. 
.8 
.9 
.7 
.9 
.7 
1.5 

2.0 
5.3 

1.1 

2.3 

1.5 

.8 

.9 

3.0 
.7 
.7 
.7 

1.9 
.5 

4.0 

3.8 

1.0 
1.8 

.5 

.9 

1.6 

.9 

1.0 

1.9 

.4 

.1 

1.1 

2.1 
1.6 
1.3 
1.6 
1.6 
1.7 
2.9 
2.1 
1.3 

8.2 

3.6 

1.7 

.7 


Per ct. 
209 


Halibut, steaks or sections 


455 
355 




200 




364 




580 


Fish salt- Cod 


34.9 

14.2 
6.0 


306 


Fish, canned: 


057 




918 


Shellfish: 


221 






SSI 


Crabs 


52.4 
61.7 
11.2 


191 




139 




013 


Dairy products, etc.: 

Butter 


3,460 


Whole milk 




312 






166 






162 






1,476 






874 


Cheese Cheddar 




2,063 






1,874 


VEGETABLE FOOD 

Flour, meal, etc.: 




1,032 






1,620 


"Wheat flour, patent roller pro- 
cess — 

High grade and medium 




1,610 
1,023 






1,640 






1.678 






1,612 






1,893 


Rice '. 




1,6»1 






1,608 


Starch 




l,6,i3 


Bread, pastry, etc.: 

White bread 




35.3 

43.6 

35,7 

38.4 

35.7 

19.9 

6.8 

4.8 

. 6.9 

10.3 

26.1 


9.2 
6.4 
8.9 
9.7 
9.0 
6.3 
0.7 

11.3 
9.8 

13.4 

2.4 


1.3 

1.8 

1.8 

.9 

.6 

9.0 

12.1 

10.6 

9.1 

.9 


1,183 






1,02.5 






1,179 






1,111 






1,153 


Cake 




1,628 






1,929 






1,'IOS 






1 ,872 






1,065 


Sugars, etc.: 




1,301 






],7;2 












1,814 












1,295 


Vegetables: 




12.6 
08.5 
83.0 


22.6 
7.1 
2.1 


1.8 
.7 
.3 


1,502 






650 


Beans, string 


7.0 


175 



483 



MENUS 



Food materials (as purchased) 



Beets 

Cabbage 

Celery 

Corn, green (sweet), edible por- 
tion 

Cucumbers 

Lettuce 

Mushrooms 

Onions 

Parsnips 

Peas (Pisum satiiium), dried 

Peas (Pisum sativum), shelled... 

Cowpeas, dried 

Potatoes 

Rhubarb 

Sweet potatoes 

Spinacn 

Squash 

Tomatoes 

Turnips 

Vegetables, canned: 

Peas {Pisum sativum), green 

Corn, green 

Tomatoes 

Fruits, berries, etc., fresh; 

Apples 

Bananas 

Grapes 

Lemons 

Muskmelons. 

Oranges 

Pears 

Persimmons, edible portion 

Raspberries 

Strawberries 

Watermelons 

Fruits, dried: 

Apples 

Apricots 

Dates 

Figs 

Nuts: 

Almonds 

Beechnuts 

Brazil nuts 

Butternuts 

Chestnuts, fresh 

Chestnuts, dried 

Cocoanuts 

Cocoanut, prepared 

Filberts 

Hickory nuts 

Pecans, polished 

Peanuts 

Walnuts, California, black 

Walnuts, California, soft-shell. . . 

Raisins 

Miscellaneous: 

Chocolate 

Cocoa, powdered 

Cereal coffee infusion (1 part boil- 
ed in 20 parts water) 



Rcfu 



Per cl. 
20.0 
15.0 
20.0 



16.0 
15.0 



10.0 
20.0 



20.0 
40.0 
20.0 



25.0 
35.0 
25.0 
30.0 
50.0 
27.0 
10.0 



5.0 
59.4 



45.0 
40.8 
49.6 
86.4 
16.0 
24.0 
48.8 



,52.1 
62.2 
53.2 
24.5 
74.1 
58.1 
10.0 



Water 



Perd. 
70.0 
77.7 
75.6 

75.4 
81.1 
80.5 
88.1 
78.9 
66.4 
9.6 
74.6 
13.0 
62.6 
56.6 
55.2 
92.3 
44.2 
94.3 
62.7 

85.3 
76.1 
94.0 

63.3 
48.9 
68.0 
62.6 
44.8 
63.4 
76.0 
66.1 
85.8 
85.9 
37.5 

28.1 
81.4 
13 T, 
18.8 

2.7 
2.3 
2.0 
.6 
37.8 
4.5 
7.2 
3.6 
1.8 
1.4 
1.4 



1.0 
13.1 



5.9 
4.6 



484 



Pro- 
tein 



Perct. 
1.3 
1.4 



3.1 

.7 

1.0 

3.5 
1.4 
1.3 

24.6 
7.0 

21.4 

1.8 

.4 

1.4 

2.1 

.7 



3.6 
2.8 
1.2 

.3 
.8 

1.0 
.7 
.3 
.6 
.5 
.8 

1.0 
.9 
.2 

1.6 

.9 

1.9 

4.3 

11.5 
13.0 
8.6 
3.8 
5.2 
8.1 
2.9 
6.3 
7.5 
6.8 
6.2 
19.5 
7.2 
6.9 
2.3 

12.9 
21.6 



Fat 



Perct. 
.1 

.2 
.1 

1.1 

,2 
.2 
.4 
.3 
.4 

1.0 
.6 

1.4 
.1 
.4 
.6 
.3 
.2 
A 
.1 



.3 

.4 

1.2 

.5 



2.5 
.3 

30.2 

34.0 

33.7 

8.3 

4.5 

5.3 

25.9 

67.4 

31.3 

25.5 

33.3 

29.1 

14.6 

26.6 

3.0 

48.7 
28.9 



Carbo- 

hy- 
drates 



Perct. 
7.7 
4.8 
2.6 

19.7 

2.6 

2.5 

6.8 

8.9 

10.8 

62.0 

16.9 

60.8 

14.7 

2.2 

21.9 

3.2 

4.5 

3.9 

5.7 



19.0 
4.0 

10.8 
14.3 
14.4 
6.9 
4.6 



Ash 



8.5 

12.7 

31.5 

12.6 

7.0 

2.7 

66.1 
17.3 
70.6 

74.2 

9.5 

7.8 

. 3.5 

.5 

35.4 

56.4 

14.3 

31.6 

6.2 

4.3 

6.2 

18.6 

3.0 

6.8 

68.5 

30.3 
37.7 



Perd. 



.7 

.4 

.8 

1.2 

.6 

1.1 

2.9 

1.0 

8.4 

.8 

.4 

.9 

2.1 

.4 

.6 



1.1 
.9 



.4 
.4 
.3 
.4 



.6 
.1 

2.0 

.4 

1.6 

2.4 

1.1 

2.1 

2.0 

.4 

1.1 

1.7 

.9 

1.3 

1.1 

.8 

.7 

1.6 

.6 

.6 

3.1 

2.2 
7.2 



Fuel 

value 

per 

pound 

Perd. 
107 
121 
08 

458 
63 
72 
203 
190 
236 

1,612 
45 1 

I, .548 
30:1 
63 
448 
108 
102 
103 
124 

251 
444 
102 

214 
200 



169 
256 
614 
247 
168 
57 

1,317 

330 

1,416 

1,437 

1 ,600 
1,750 
1,680 
413 
918 
1 ,38t 
1,3.58 
3,003 
1,512 
1,213 
1,551 
1,864 
774 
1,322 
1,406 

2,750 

2,242 

29 



GENERAL INDEX 



THE FINE ART OF COOKERY 

The art of cookery, 3 
Food and its usea, 4 
Economy, 5 
Cleaullaess. 7 
Purposes of cooking, 7 

ENTERTAINING 

The dinner party, 12 

Introductions, IS 

Seating the guesta, 14 

Menu and table, 15 
Skeleton menu for full coune dinner, IS 
Complete menu, 10 
Hints on serving, 16 
Invitations in general, 17 
The informal dinner, 18 
Afternoon tea, 18 
The evening collation, 19 

APPETIZERS 

Oyster cocktail I, 23 

Oyster cocktml 11, 23 

Lobster cocktail, 23 

Clam cocktail, 24 

Grape-fruit cocktail, 24 

Mixed-fruit cocktail, 24 

Raspberry cocktail, 24 

Strawberry cocktail, 24 

Pineapple and banana cocktail, 24 

Peach cocktail, 25 

Ambrosia, 25 

Caviar canap^i, 25 

Anchovy canape, 25 

Cheese canap^, 25 

Ham canap6s, 25 

SOUPS 

Meat stock, 29 
Vegetable stock, 29 
Cream stock, 30 
Beef bouillon, SO 



Chicken broth, 80 

Consomm^, 30 

Clam bouillon, 31 

Oyster bouillon, 31 

Oyster I, 31 

Oyster II, 32 

Clam, 32 

Chile bisque, 32 

Cream of potato, 82 

Cream of tomato, 83 

Cream of pea, 33 

Peapod, S3 

Cream of celery, 33 

Cream of asparagus, S3 

Cream of corn I, 34 

Cream of corn II, 34 

Cream of spinach, 34 

Cream of lettuce, 34 

Mock turtle, 35 

Gumbo, 35 

Beef, 35 

Mutton, 36 

Turkey-bone, 36 

Cheese, 36 

Ox-tail, 36 

Pepper pot, 37 

MuUagatawny, 37 

Chicken gumbo, 37 

Julienne, 38 

Economical, 38 

Barley, 38 

Vermicelli, 38 

Noodle, 39 

Black-beau, 39 

Tomato, 39 

Vegetable I, 40 

Vegetable II, 40 

Pimiento bisque, 40 

Clam chowder, 41 

Corn chowder, 41 

To serve with soup, 
Croutons, 41 
Fulled bread, 42 
Imperial sticks, 4S 



485 



GENERAL INDEX 



FISH 



Cleaning, 50 
Boiled, 50 
Baked, 51 
Broiled, 51 
Fried, 61 
Shad roe, 52 
Baked ahad, 52 
Planked shad, 52 
Planked halibut, 52 
Baked mieta of halibut, 5S 
Fried smelts, 53 
Salt-fish dinner, 53 
Codfish, 53 
Codfish balls, 54 
Salmon surprise, 54 
[ Creamed salmon, 54 
Fried scallops, 54 
Clams, 54 
Clam fritters, 55 
Creamed clams, 55 
Fried oysters, 56 
Oyster pie, 55 
Scalloped oysters, 66 
Creamed oysters, 56 
Oyster stew, 66 
Shirred oysters, 56 
Panned oysters, 57 
Broiled oysters, 57 
Terrapin, 67 
Stewed terrapin, 67 
Lobster, 67 
Flanked lobster, 68 
Deviled crabs, 68 
rogs, 58 



MEATS 



Cooking, 65 
Purchasing, 66 
Diagram of cuts of beef. 
Roasting, 67 
Broiling, 67 
Boiling, 68 
Frying, 68 
Saut^ing, 69 
Braising, 69 
Stewing, 69 
Frieasaeeing, 69 
Purchasing beef, 70 
Pot roast, 70 



Roast beef with Yorkshire pudding, 70 

Beef k la mode, 70 

Beef terrapin, 71 

Planked steak, 71 

Planked steak with oysters, 72 

Planked Salisbury steak, 72 

Corned beef, 72 

Pickle for corning beef, 72 

Rolled steak, 73 

Mock duck, 73 

Mock rabbit, 73 

Beef chop suey, 74 

Spanish beefsteak, 74 

Mexican beef, 74 

Guiso, 74 

Filipino beef, 75 

Hungarian goulash, 75 

Sour beef, 76 

Beef birds, 76 

Beef loaf, 76 

Hamburg steak, 76 

Creamed beef, 76 

Minced beef, 77 

Creamed frizzled beef, 77 

Boiled beefs tongue, 77 

Smoked tongue, boiled, 78 

Veal loaf, 78 

India curry, 78 

Curry of veal, 78 

Baked calf*s head, 78 

Diagram of cuts of veal, 79 

CalTs liver with cream sauce, 79 

Broiled liver, 80 

Liver and bacon, 80 

Braised liver, 80 

Stewed liver, 81 

Stuffed calf's liver, 81 

Purchasing mutton or lamb, 81 

Shoulder of mutton, stuffed, 81 

Haricot of mutton, 82 

Diagram of cuts of lamb and mutton, 8£ 

Boiled shoulder of mutton, 82 

Ragout of mutton, 83 

Irish stew, 83 

Planked chops, 83 

Mutton chops with peas, 83 

Roast pork, 84 

Diagram of cuts of pork, 84 

Pork chops, 84 

Boiled ham, 84 

Baked ham, 86 

Frizzled ham, 85 



4S6 



GENERAL INDEX 



Stewed ham» 85 
Broiled ham, 85 
Ham and eggs, 85 
Bacon and eggs, 86 
Salt pork in milk, 86 
Meat pot-pie, 86 
Pigs' feet in jelly, 86 
Tripe, 87 

Broiled sweetbreads, 87 
Stewed sweetbreads, 87 
Stewed kidneys, 87 

POULTRY AND GAME 

Marketing, 93 

To dress poultry, 93 

Giblets, 94 

To truss poultry, 94 

To stuff poultry, 94 

Roast chicken, 04 

Stewed chicken, 95 

BroUed chicken, 95 

Planked chicken, 95 

Barbecued chicken, 99 

Fried chicken, 96 

Chicken fricassee, 96 

Chicken pie, 99 

Chicken terrapin, 97 

Chicken and oysters, 97 

Roast duck, 97 

Roast turkey, 97 

Pigeon pie, 97 

Rabbit, 98 

Panned rabbit, 98 

Partridges, 98 

Pheasants, 98 

Guinea fowls, 98 

Reed birds, 99 

Quail, 99 

Roasted grouse, 99 

Haunch of venison, roasted, 99 

Neck and shoulder of venison, 99 

Venison steak, 100 

FORCEMEATS, STUFFINGS, ETC. 

Quenelles, 105 
Chicken forcemeat, 105 
Ham forcemeat, 105 
Veal forcemeat, 106 
Beef forcemeat, 106 
Forcemeat for baked fish, 106 



Stuffing for baked fish, 106 
Oyster stuffing, 106 
Bread stuffing, 107 
Potato stuffing, 107 
Drippings, 107 
German suetlne, 107 
Prepared bread crumbs, 108 
Caramel, 108 



SAUCES 



Brown, 111 

Giblet, 111 

Piquante, 112 

Bread, 112 

Cream, 112 

Cream, with mushrooms, 119 

Egg, 112 

Mint, 112 

Curry, 113 

Maitre d' hfttel butter, 113 

Drawn butter, 113 

Hollandaise, 113 

Tartare, 113 

Tomato, 114 

Cream of tomato, 114 

Anchovy, 114 

White, 114 

Horseradish, 114 

Mushroom, 115 

Oyster, 115 

Supreme, 115 

Caper, 115 

Celery, 116 

Bechamel, 116 

Cranberry, 116 

Stewed cranberries, 116 

JeUy. 116 

Apple, 117 



EGGS 



Boiled eggs, 121 
Poached eggs, 121 
Fried eggs, 121 
Shirred eggs, 122 
Scrambled ^gs, 122 
Griddled eggs, 122 
Curried eggs, 122 
Plain omelet, 122 
Ham omelet, 123 
Savory omelet I, 123 



487 



GENERAL INDEX 



Savory omelet II, 123 
Rice omelet, 128 
Sweet omelet, 124 
Crumb omelet, 124 
Tomato omelet, 124 
Corn omelet, 124 
Oyster omelet, 125 
Codfish omelet, 125 
Cheese omelet, 125 
Baked omelet, 125 
Baked eggs k la Martin, 126 
Welsh rarebit, 126 
Golden buck, 126 
Ox eyes, 126 
Birds' nests, 127 
Kedgaree, 127 
Beauregard eggs, 127 
Eggs Japanese, 127 
Spanish eggs, 128 



LEFT-OVERS 

Serving leftnjvers, 149 
Baked hash, 149 
Curry of beef, 149 
Curry of lamb, 150 
Scalloped beef, 150 
Creamed hash, 150 
Mock venison, 150 
Corned-beef hash, 150 
Farmers' cabbage, 151 
Stew from cold meat, 161 
Potted meat, 161 
Veal cakes, 161 
Blanquette of chicken, 152 
Fish cutlets, 162 
Fish croquettes, 162 
Cusk 4 la creme, 152 
Scalloped fish, 163 



MEAT SUBSTITUTES 



VEGETABLES 



Foods served in place of meat, 133 

Dinners without meat, 134 

Dried peas, beans, lentils, 135 

Lentils k la Creole, 136 

Baked lentils. 136 

Baked beans, 137 

Pur^e of dried beans, 137 

Dried beans saute, 137 

Beans, Mexican, 138 

Cottage cheese, 138 

Boston roast, 138 

Pimiento roast, 138 

Baked macaroni with cheese, 139 

Baked crackers with cheese, 139 

Migas, 139 

Com and cheese souffle, 139 

Cheese souffle, 140 

Cheese rolls, 140 

Baked rice, 140 

English rice, 140 

Peanut butter, 141 

Nut and fruit cheese, 141 

Nut roaat, 141 

Vegetable meat pie, 142 

Nut 80uffl6, 142 

Almonds with eggs, 142 

Nut and cheese relish, 143 



Cooking, 159 
Cabbage, 160 
Cabbage with pork, 160 
Lady cabbage, 160 
Cr«amed cabbage, 161 
Cauliflower, 161 
Creamed cauliflower, 161 
Cauliflower au gratin, 161 
Cauliflower polonaise, 161 
Brussels sprouts, 161 
Kale, 162 
Boiled lettuce, 162 
Beet greens, 182 
Spinach, 162 
Dandelions, 163 
Leeks, 163 

Jerusalem artichoke, 163 
Globe artichoke, 163 
Green peas, 164 
Sugar peas, 164 
String beans, 164 
Green Lima beans, 164 
Dried beans and peas, 164 
Boiled turnips, 164 
Carrots, 166 
Carrots and peas, 165 
Parsnips, 165 
Kohl-rabi, 165 
Salsify, 165 



488 



GENERAL INDEX 



Beets. 166 
Kckled beets, 166 
Creamed celery, 166 
Boil«d onions, 166 
Stewed onions, 166 
Scalloped onions, 167 
Fried onions, 167 
Stewed tomatoes, 167 
Scalloped tomatoes, 167 
Stuffed tomatoes, 167 
Fried tomatoes, 108 
Turkish pilaf, 168 
Asparagus, 168 
Okra, 169 

Green peppers, stuffed, 169 
Fried eggplant, 169 
Baked eggplant, 169 
Broiled eggplant, 170 
Squash, 170 
Baked squash, 170 
Steamed squash, 170 
Corn on the cob, 170 
Corn off the cob, 170 
Succotash, 171 
Corn pudding, 171 
Steamed mushrooms, 171 
Broiled mushrooms, 171 
Baked mushrooms, 172 
Mushrooms k la poulette, 172 
Boiled chestnuts, 172 
Roasted chestnuts, 172 
Boiled potatoes, 172 
Steamed potatoes, 173 
Baked potatoes, 173 
French fried potatoes, 173 
Stuffed potatoes, 173 
Mashed potatoes, 173 
Creamed potatoes, 174 
New potatoes in cream, 174 
Potato croquettes, 174 
Potato balls, 174 
Potato cakes, 174 
Lyonnaise potatoes, 176 
Scalloped potatoes I, 175 
Scalloped potatoes II, 175 
Potatoes au gratio, 175 
Browned potatoes, 175 
Potato puff. 176 
Hashed brown potatoes, 176 
Candied sweet potatoes, 176 
Fried sweet potatoes, 176 
Veeetable hash. 177 



Boiled macaroni, 177 
Stuffed cucumbers, 177 

ENTRIES 

Fritter batter, 183 
Vegetable fritters, 183 
Oyster fritters, 183 
Apple fritters, 183 
Banana fritters, 184 
Beef kromeskies, 184 
Roman gnocchi, 184 
Rissoles, 184 
Rice timbales, 185 
Swedish timbales, 185 
Timbale of macaroni, 185 
Chicken a la king, 186 
Chicken a la crane, 186 
Chicken patties, 186 
Meat patties, 186 
Ham patties, 18G 
Patty shells, 187 
Vol-au-vent, 187 
Chicken croquettes, 187 
Meat croquettes, 188 
Salmi of game, 188 
Curried rabbit, 188 

SALADS 

Making salads, 193 

Mayonnaise dressing, 193 

Colored Mayonnaise, 194 

White Mayonnaise, 194 

Cooked dressing (mock Mayonnaise), 194 

Cream dressing, 194 

French dressing, 195 

Salad dressing in large quantity, 195 

Chicken salad, 195 

Tomato surprises, 195 

Sard ne salad, 196 

Shrimp salad, 196 

Salmon salad, 190 

Lobster salad, 196 

lettuce salad, 196 

Combination salad, 197 

Novel tomato salad, 197 

Tomato jelly, 197 

Deviled eggs, 197 

Pepper and cream cheese salad, 198 

Nasturtium salad, 198 

F.^ salad 198 



4c'0 



General index 



Potato salad I, 198 

Potato salad 11, 108 

Cold slaw. 199 

Cold-slaw dressing, 199 

Beet salads, 199 

Cucumber salad, 199 

Winter salad, 200 

Salmagundi salad, 300 

Water-lily salad, 200 

Cauliflower salad, 200 

Normandy salad, 201 

Marine salad, 201 

Watermelon salad, 201 

Fruit salad, 201 

Fruit and nut salad, 201 

Walnut salad, 202 

Peanut salad. 202 

Banana salad, 202 

Fruit pyramids, 202 

October salad, 202 

Grape-fruit salad, 203 

Fraise salad, 203 

Grape-fruit and pineapple salad, 203 

Tulip salad, 203 

Banana dainty, 203 

PUDDINGS AND DESSEETS 

Rice pudding, 207 
Boiled custard. 207 
Eice meringue I. 208 
Bice meringue 11, 208 
Cornstarch pudding, 208 
Chocolate pudding, 209 
Cocoanut cornstarch. 209 
Cocoanut junket, 209 
Mock chariotte, 209 
Orange pudding, 210 
Blanc mange, 210 
Bice blanc mange, 210 
Hominy pudding, 210 
Almond cream, 211 
Tapioca custard, 211 
Cocoanut tapioca, 211 
Mountain-dew pudding, 212 
Cup custards, 212 
Caramel custard, 212 
Apple snow, 212 
Strawberry trifle I, 213 
Strawberry trifle II, 213 
Lemon Jedy, 213 
Whipped jelly, 213 



Coffee jelly, 213 
Spanish cream, 214 
Bavarian cream, 214 
Bridge-whist pudding, 21i 
Joyful pudding. 215 
Charlotte russe, 215 
Whips. 215 
prune whip, 215 
Chocolate charlotte, 216 
Realengo, 216 
Delicate pudding. 216 
Apple tapioca, 216 
Cherry tapioca, 217 
Fig dessert, 217 
Apple meringue, 217 
Berry charlotte. 217 
Bread-and-butter pudding. 2l3 
Bread pudding, 218 
Cottage pudding, 218 
Peach pudding, 219 
Baked flour pudding, 219 
Brown Betty, 219 
Queen of puddings, 219 
Raisin puff, 220 
English plum pudding, 320 
Newmarket pudding, 220 
Brown-bread pudding, 221 
Peach patties, 221 
Canned-peach pudding, 221 
Suet pudding I, 221 
Suet pudding U, 221 
Apple pudding, 222 
Sponge-cake pudding, 222 
Baked Indian pudding I. 222 
, Baked Indian pudding II, 222 
Boiled Indian pudding, 223 
Huddeberry pudding, 223 
Berry pudding, 223 
Steamed fruit pudding, 223 
peach cobbler, 224 
Date sponge, 224 
Savarin, 224 

Walnutland date dainty, 225 
Cream puffs, 225 
Cream for puffs, 225 

FROZEN DESSERTS 

Making frozen desserts, 231 , 
Vanilla ice cream I, 232 
Vanilla ice cream II, 232 
E^nomical ice cream, 232 



490 



GENERAL INDEX 



Flowering ice cream, 232 
Bombe glac^, 232 
Meringues glacfies, 233 
Frozen custard, 233 
Frozen cocoanut custard, 233 
Frozen pudding, 233 
Chocolate ice cream, 234 
Tutti-frutti ice cream, 234 
Bisque ice cream, 334 
Coffee ice cream, 234 
Caramel ice cream, 234 
I^mon ice cream, 235 
pineapple ice cream, 235 
Strawberry ice cream, 235 
Peach ice cream, 235 
Orange ice, 235 
Lemon ice, 235 
Pineapple ice, 236 
Currant ice, 236 
Frozen'cherries, 236 
Frozen strawberries, 236 
Frozen raspberries, 236 
Frozen peaches, 236 
Grape sherbet, 237 
Lemon sherbet, 237 
Orange sherbet, 237 
Combiimtion sherbet, 237 
Fruit granite, 237 
Orange pekoe sherbet, 238 
Ginger frappe, 238 
Chocolate frapp6, 238 
Cafe frappe, 238 
Grape-fruit frappe, 238 
Cranberry frapp6, 238 
Caf6 parfait, 239 
Chocolate parfait, 239 
Mousse, 239 
Cherry mousse, 239 
Pineapple mousse, 240 
Maple mousse, 240 

SWEET SAUCES 

Cream sauce, 247 
Caramel sauce I, 247 
Caramel sauce II, 247 
Custard sauce, 247 
Egg sauce, 248 
Fruit sauce, 248 
Brown-sugar sauce, 248 
Whipped cream, 248 



Foamy sauce, 249 

Raspberry sauce, 249 

Lemon sauce, 249 

Vanilla sauce, 249 

Hot chocolate sauce I, 249 

Hot chocolate sauce II, 249 

Hard sauce I, 250 

Hard sauce II, 260 

Chocolate sauce, 250 

Mock cream, 250 

Cocoa sauce, 261 

Cherry sauce for ices, 251 f 

Table syrup, 261 

BREAD. HOT-CAKES, ETC. 

Bread-making, 265 

Kneading, 265 

Baking, 256 
Yeast, 266 

White bread (quick method), 267 
White bread (for use over night), 257 
White bread (sponge method), 257 
Milk bread, 258 

WTiite bread in bread-mixer, 9^8 
Baking-powder bread, 259 
Salt-rising bread, 269 
Rice bread, 259 
Graham bread, 259 
Rye bread, 261 
Gluten bread. 261 
Nut bread. 262 
Corn bread, 262 
Corn bread with yeast, 262 
Canada egg bread, 263 
Raisin bread, 263 
Cocoa bread, 263 
Boston brown bread I, 264 
Boston brown bread II, 264 
Scotch short bread, 264 
Coarse loaf, 264 
Cinnamon bun, 265 
Cinnamon cake, 266 
Doughnuts, 265 
Dutch cake, 266 
Bohemian houska, 266 
Currant tea-rincc, 267 
Apple cake, 267 
Apfel Kuchen, 267 
German coffee cake, 268 
Bund Kuchen, 268 
Brioche, 268 



491 



GENERAL INDEX 



Moravian caJte, 269 
Bread nisk, 269 
Children's rusk, 269 
Buns, 270 

Sweet French buns, 270 
English Bath buns, 270 
Hot cross buns, 271 
Oven scones, 271 
English scones, 272 
Tea biscuit, 272 
Tea rolls, 272 
Lunch rolls, 273 
Parker-House rolls, 273 
Dinner rolls, 273 
Graham muffins, 274 
Enghsh muffins, 274 
Oatmeal muffins, 275 
Sally Lunn, 275 
Wheat muffins, 275 
Com muffins with yeast, 276 
Com muffins I, 276 
Corn muffins 11, 276 
Rice muffins, 276 
Egg muffins, 277 
Perfect cream wafers, 277 
Graham wafers, 277 
Sour-cream biscuit, 277 
Drop biscuit, 277 
Sour-milk biscuit, 278 
Scotch oat cake, 278 
Pop-overs, 278 
Gluten gems, 278 
Graham puffs, 278 
Zwieback, 279 
Waffles with yeast, 279 
One-egg waffles, 279 
Three-egg waffles, 280 
Bread sticks, 280 
Griddle cakes, 280 
Oatmeal griddle cakes, 280 
Wheat griddle cakes, 280 
Griddle cakes I, 281 
Griddle cakes U, 281 
Griddle cakes III, 281 
Buckwheat cakes I, 281 
Buckwheat cakes II, 282 
Rice cakes, 282 
Com griddle cakes, 282 
Crumb griddle cakes, 282 
Mollette, 283 
Drop dumplings, 283 
Rolled dumplings, 283 



CAKES 



Cake-baking, 289 

Mixing, 289 

Baking, 290 
Baking-powder, 291 
Angel cake, 291 
Sponge cake I, 291 
Sponge cake II, 291 
Sponge cake III, 292 
Cream sponge, 292 
Jelly roll, 292 
Potato-flour cake, 292 
Pound cake, 293 
Orange cake, 293 
Butter Cake, 293 
Peggy cake, 298 
Gold cake, 293 
Silver cake, 294 
Plain cake, 294 
Blueberry cake, 294 
Shellbark cake, 294 
Lemon cake, 295 
Cornstarch cake, 295 
Simple layer cake, 295 
Farmers' fruit cake, 295 
Economical fruit cake, 296 
One-egg fruit cake, 296 
Mock pound cake, 296 
Cocoanut cake, 296 
Lady cake, 297 
White cup cake, 297 
Cinnamon sweet cake, 297 
Marshmallow cake, 297 
Coffee loaf cake, 298 
Marble cake, 298 
Surprise cake, 298 
Snippy-doodle, 299 
Sponge ginger cake, 290 
Gingerbread, 299 
Molasses cake, 299 
Mocha torte, 299 
Patriotic cake, 300 
Devils' food, 300 
Spanish bun I, 301 
Spanish bun II, 301 
Cup cakes, 801 
Drop cakes, 301 
Chocolate drop cakes, 302 
Currant drop cakes, 302 
Ginger drop cakes, 302 
Oat cakes, 302 



492 



GENERAL INDEX 



Oat cookies, 303 
Peppernuts, 303 
Belgrader bread, 303 
Almond rock cakes, 303 
MacarooDs, 304 
Cocoanut macaroons, 304 
Nut macaroons, 304 
Chocolate cakes, 301 
Chocolate wafers, 305 
A-P's, 305 
Ginger snaps I, 305 
Ginger snaps II, 305 
Orange gingerbread, 30ft 
Crisp gingerbread, 306 
Crullers, 306 
Jumbles, SOS 
Cookies, 307 
Sand tarts, 307 
Peanut cakes, 307 
Fruit jumbles, 307 
Meringues, 307 
Ifisses, 308 
Plain frosting, 308 
Ornamental frosting, 308 
Boiled frosting, 308 
Chocolate frosting I, 309 
Chocolate frosting II, 309 
Maple-sugar frosting, 309 
Divinity frosting, 309 
Chocolate filling, 309 
Fig filling, 310 
Fruit filling, 310 
Orange filling, 310 
Lemon filling, 310 
Cocoanut filling, 310 
Marshmallow filling, 310 

PASTRY AND PIES 

Baking pies, 317 
Puff-paste, 317 
Half puff-paste, 318 
Plain paste, 319 
Tartlets, 319 
Torto frutas, 319 
Peach crusU, 319 
French tart, 320 
Baked apple dumplings, 320 
Pumpkin pie, 320 
Rhubarb pie, 320 
Lemon meringue pie, 320 
Lemon cream pie, 321 

?3 



Raisin pie, 321 
Cranberry tart, 321 
Custard pie, 321 
Cocoanut custard, 322 
Cheese cake, 322 
Apple pie, 322 
Cherry pie, 322 
Bethlehem apple tart, 322 
Peach pie, 323 
Peach tart, 323 
Mince meat, 323 
Washington pie, 323 
Health pie, 324 
Short cake, 324 
Economical short rake, 324 

SANDWICHES AND SAVORIES 

Meat sandwiches, 329 

Meat filling for sandwiches, 329 

Anchovy sandwiches, 330 

Fig sandwiches, 330 

Date and fig sandwiches, 330 

Fruit sandwiches, 330 

Nut sandwiches, 330 

Nut and raisin sandwiches, 330 

Ohve sandwiches, 330 

lettuce and cream-cheese sandwiches, 331 

Lettuce and walnut sandwiches, 331 

Egg sandwiches, 331 

Surprise sandwiches, 331 

Ribbon sandwiches, 331 

Sweet sandwiches, 331 

Mock crab sandwiches, 332 

Egg and olive sandn-iches I, 332 

Egg and olive sandwiches II, 332] 

Japan sandwiches, 332 

Caviar sandwiches, 332 

Sardine sandwiches, 332 

Cheese filling for sandwiches, 333 

Club sandwich, 333 

Combination sandwich, 333 

Cinnamon toast, 333 

Egg toast, 333 

Cheese straws, 334 

Salted almonds, 334 

Salted peanuts, 334 

CEREALS 



Cooking cereals, 339 
Oatmeal porridge, 339 



493 



GENERAL INDEX 



Oatmeal with cheese, 340 
Baked apple with oatmeal, 340 
Wheat cereals, 340 
Com-meal mush, 340 
Fried mush, 340 
Boiled rice, 341 
Rice in milk, 341 
Farina, 341 
Hominy, 341 



CANDY 



Fondant, S4» 

Quick fondant, 345 

Chocolate creams, 346 

Chocolate cream mints, 346 

Nougat, 346 

Molasses candy I, 346 

Molasses candy U, 347 

Cinnamon candy, 347 

Butter scotch, 347 

Pinoche, 347 

Peanut brittle, 347 

Pralines, 348 

Chocolate fudge, 348 

Cocoa fudge, 348 

Chocolate caramels, 348 

Cocoanut butter scotch, 348 

Cream peppermints, 349 

Mesdcan caramels, 349 

Pop-corn balls, 349 

Fruits glac6, 349 

Nuts glace, 349 

Candied lemon and orange peel^ 350 

Marshmallows, 350 

Divinity, 350 

Orange paste, 350 

Karo candy, 351 

Cocoanut cones, 351 

Hoarhound candy, 361 



FRUIT 



Fruit in the diet, 867 
Baked apples, 357 
Apple sauce, 357 
Fried apples, 368 
Stewed peaches, 368 
Baked peaches, 368 
Baked pears, 368 



Baked quinces, 358 
Stewed quinces, 368 
Stewed rhubarb, 359 
Stewed blackberries, 359 
Stewed raspberries, 359 
Stewed cherries, 359 
Stewed cranberries, 360 
Dried fruits, 359 
Lemon butter I, 360 
Lemon butter U, 360 

CANNING AND PRESER^^NG 

General instructions, 365 

Canning fruit in water bath, 366 

Canning in the preserving kettle, 367 

Canned raspberries, 367 

Canned blackberries, 368 

Raspberries and currants, 368 

Canned currants, 368 

Canned blueberries, 368 

Canned cherries, 368 

Canned grapes, 368 

Canned rhubarb, 369 

Canned gooseberries, 369 

Canned plums, 369 

Canned peaches, 369 

Canned pears, 370 

Canned crab apples, 370 

Canned quinces, 370 

Canned pineapple, 370 

Canning vegetables, 370 

Canned tomatoes, 371 

Canned mushrooms, 371 

Preserving frmt, 371 

Strawberries in the sun, 372 

Preserved strawberries, 372 

Strawberries and pineapple, 372 

Preserved cherries, 372 

Preserved plums and green gages, 373 

Cherry conserve, 373 

Preserved pineapple, 373 

Marmalades, 373 

Grape-fruit marmalade, 373 

Orange marmalade, 374 

Spiced currants, 374 

Preserved yellow tomatoes, 374 

Raisin compote, 374 

Spiced pears, 375 

Pickled cherries, 375 

Citron preserve, 375 



494 



GENERAL INDEX 



Apple butter, 376 

Peach butter, S76 

Tutti-frutti, 376 

Jelly-making, 376 

Apple jelly, 377 

Quince jelly, 377 

Mint jdly, 377 

Currant jelly, 378 

Raspberry and currant jelly, 378 

Raspberry jelly, 878 

Blackberry jelly, 378 

Strawberry jelly, 378 

Green-grape jelly, 378 

Ripe-grape jelly, 378 

Plum jelly. 379 

PICKLES 

Mixed pickle, 385 
Mixed-pickle dressing, 385 
Green tomato sauce, 385 
Chili sauce, 386 
Pickled peppers, 380 
Pickled tomatoes, 386 
Tomato catsup, 386 
Pickled cucumbers, 387 
Mushroom catsup, 387 

BEVERAGES 

Coffee, 391 

Instantaneous coffee, 391 
Serving coffee, 392 
Coffee in bulk, 393 
Tea, 392 
Russian tea, 392 
Tea punch. 392 
Iced tea, 393 
Hot chocolate, 393 
Cocoa, 393 
Chocolate syrup, 393 
Chocolate nectar, 393 
Fruit drinks, 394 
Quick lemonade. 394 
Egg lemonade, 394 
Grape juice, 394 
Other fruit juices, 395 
Fruit syrup. 395 
Raspberry vinegar, 395 
Fruit punch, 895 



INVALID COOKERY 

Lamb broth, 401 

Beef tea, 401 

Oatmeal gruel I. 401 

Oatmeal gruel II, 402 

Indian gruel, 402 

Sago gruel, 402 

Egg gruel, 402 

Cracker gruel, 402 

Arrowroot, 403 

Arrowroot water, 403 

Flaxseed tea, 403 

Toast water, 403 

Albumenized water, 404 

Rice water, 404 

Panada, 404 

French panada, 404 

Milk toast I, 404 

Milk toast II, 405 

Cream toast. 405 

Soaked crackers, 405 

Egg milk-shake, 405 

Sunshine orange, 405 

Lemon foam. 406 

Lemon whey, 406 

Whipped apple sauce, 406 

Custard, 406 

Calf's foot jelly, 406 

Potatoes on the half-shell,407 

Koumiss, 407 

Stewed figs, 407 

Tapioca, 407 

Beet pats, 408 

Chicken panada, 408 

Oysters on toast, 408 

Squabs or any small bird3,408 

FIRELESS COOKERY 

Cooking by fireless, 413 
Home-made cooker, 413 
Cereals, 414 
Arrowroot gruel, 414 
Barley mush, 415 
Corn-meal mush, 415 
Cracked wheat, 415 
Graham mush, 415 
Hominy, 415 
Oatmeal, 416 

Pettijohn's breakfast food, 416 
Ralston's breakfast food, 416 

495 



GENERAL INDEX 



Boiled rice, 418 

Rice and figs, 416 

Rolled wheat, 416 

Cream of wheat, 417 

Soup, 417 

Browned soup stock, 417 

White soup stock, 417 

Bean soup, 418 

Chicken soup, 418 

Corn soup, 418 

Tomato soup, 418 

Turtle soup, 419 

Vegetable soup, 419 

Potato soup, 419 

Cream of celery soup, 419 

Cream of pea soup, 420 

Lentil soup, 420 

Bouillon, 420 

Fish. 42P 

Baked fish, 4<^1 

Codfish balls, 421 

Baked lake trout, 421 

Boiled white fish, 421 

Scalloped salmon, 421 

Boiled salmon, 422 

Turbot, 422 

Meats, 422 

Corned beef, 422 _ 

Boiled beef, 422 

Beef au gratin, 423 

Roast beef, 423 

Round steaic on biscuits. 423 

Beef stew, 423 

Beefsteak and onions, 424 

Boiled dinner, 424 

Browned beef stew, 424 

Chicken curry, 424 

Fricasseed chicken, 424 

Chicken pie, 425 

Roast chicken, 425 

Chicken stew, 425 

Irish stew, 425 

Baked hash, 426 

Boiled ham, 426 

Fricassee of lamb, 426 

Roast Iamb, 426 

Lamb chops, roasted, 426 

Boiled leg of lamb, 426 

Roast pork, 427 

Sweetbreads, 427 

Pork tenderloin, 427 

Btuled tongue, 427 



Curry of veal, 427 

Veal croquettes, 427 

Veal loaf. 428 

Roast veal, 428 

Veal rolls, 428 

Veal and rice, 428 

Meat recipes for the home-made cooker 

Roasted meats, 429 

Stuffed heart, 429 

Mock wild duck. 429 
Vegetables, 430 
Asparagus, 430 
Boiled beets, 430 
Beet greens, 431 
Pickled beets, 431 
Baked beans, 431 
Boiled cabbage, 431 
Boiled carrots, 432 
Carrots and peas, 432 
Cauliflower, 432 
Creamed celery, 432 
Baked com, 432 
Baked com and tomatoes, 432 
Boiled green com, 433 
Lima beans, fresh, 433 
Lima beans, pur^e, 433 
Boiled onions, 433 
Parsnips. 433 
Peas. 433 

Mashed potatoes, 434 
Steamed potatoes, 434 
Baked potatoes, 434 
Creamed potatoes, 434 
Scalloped potatoes, 434 
Potatoes for salad, 435 
Sauer kraut, 435 
Spinach, 435 
Stuffed peppers, 435 
Squash, 436 
String beans, 435 
Baked sweet potatoes, 436 
White turnips, 436 
Yellow turnips, 436 
Boiled tomatoes, 436 
Stewed tomatoes, 436 
Baked macaroni. 436 
Macaroni with cheese, 437 
Macaroni with tomatoes, 437 
Bread and biscuits, 437 
Bread. 437 
Tea biscuits, 438 
Boston brown bread I, 488 



496 



GENERAL INDEX 



Boston brown bread U, 438 

Steamed graham bread> 438 

Cake, 439 

Angel cake, 439 

Sponge cake I, 439 

Sponge cake II, 439 

Christmas cake, 440 

Gingerbread, 440 

Sour-milk cake, 440 

Nut cake, 440 

Dried fruitj, 441 

Apples, 441 

Apricots, 441 

Black figs, 441 

Figs, 441 

Dried peaches, 441 

Dried pears, 443 

Prunes, 442 

Bread pudding, 442 

Cottage pudding, 443 

Fig pudding, 442 

Cherry pudding, 443 

Tapioca and apples, 443 

Tapioca custard pudding, 443 

Other puddings, 443 

Apple pie, 444 

Cherry pie, 444 

Custard pie, 444 

Lemon pie, 444 

Pumpkin pie, 444 

Frozen desserts, 445 

fAPER-BAG COOKERY 

General directions, 451 

Panned oysters or clams, 462 

Breuded oysters, 452 

Baked fish in paper bag, 453 

Smelts sur le plat, 453 

Spanish mackerel in butter, 453 

Stuffed fish, 453 

Roast quail, 453 

Roast chicken, 453 

Chicken saut6, 454 

Mutton stew, 454 

Mutton cutlets, 454 

Beef stew, 454 

Beef loaf, 454 

Roast beef with potatoes, 464 

Scalloped sweetbread, 466 

Kidney, 455 

^teaQaed cauliflower, 465 



Steamed turnips, 455 
Steamed carrots, 456 
Green peas, 465 
Baked tomatoes, 456 
Potato chips, 456 
Saut6 potatoes, 456 

CHAFING-DISH COOKERY 

Practical suggestions, 461 

Bouillon, 461 

Shrimp wiggle, 461 

Cream of tomato, 462 

Rinktum ditty, 462 

Chicken hollandaise, 462 

English monkey, 462 

Welsh rarebit, 462 

Mexican rarebit, 463 

Macaroni rarebit, 463 

Mt. Clemens rarebit, 463 

Curried eggs, 463 

Stirred eggs, 464 

Tomato scramble, 464 

Stock scramble, 464 

Cheese scramble, 464 

Terrapin, 464 

Oyster pan-roast, 465 

Creamed oysters and celery, 466 

Panned oysters, 465 

Roasted oysters, 465 

Pigs in blankets, 465 

Lobster a la cr^me, 466 

Lobster stew, 466 

Deviled lobster, 466 

Clams a la cr^me, 466 

Crab k la cr^me, 467 

Shrimp k la cr^me, 467 

Clam and egg scramble, 467 

Clam toast, 467 

Canvas-back ducks, 467 

Sardine savory, 467 

Creamed sardines, 468 

Frog saddles, 468 

Quail, 468 

Frizzle-dizzle, 468 

Veal with asparagus tips, 468 

Deviled meat, 469 

Beef chauffe, 469 

Mushrooms with bacon, 469 

Tomato curry, 469 

Macaroni milanaise, 469 

Apple dainty, 470 

497 



GENERAL INDEX 



Fig dainty, 470 Rice in ramekins, 477 

Salted almonds, 470 Brown fricassee of oysters, 477 

Candy, 470 Scalloped oysters in ramekins, 477 

Halibut au gratin, 478 

CASSEROLE COOKERY Salmon au gratin, 478 

Eggs in ramekins, 478 

Value of casserole cookery, 475 Chicken in ramekins, 478 

Chicken en casserole, 475 Shin meat en casserole, 478 
Beefsteak en casserole, 476 

Lamb en casserole, 476 MENUS 
Casserole roast, 476 

Casserole hash, 477 Simple breakfasts, 481 

Baked beans en casserole, 477 Simple luncheons, 482 

Macaroni in ramekins, 477 Simple dinners, 483 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX 



Afternoon tea, 18 
Albumeoized water, 404 
Almond cream, 211 

rock cakes, 803 
Almonds, salted, 3S4, 470 

with egga, 142 
Ajnbrosia, S5 
A-nchovy canapds, 25 

sandwiches, 330 
Angel cake, 291, 439 
Apfel Kuchen, 267 
Appetizers, 23 
Apple butter, 376 

cake, 267 

dainty, 470 

dumplings, baked, 320 

fritters, 183 

jelly, 377 

meringue, 217 

pie, 322, 445 

pudding, 222 

sauce, 117 

snow, 212 

tapioca, 216 

tart, 322 
Apples, baked, 357 

baked, with oatmeal^ 340 

dried, 441 
Apricots, dried, 441 
A-P's, 305 
Arrowroot, 403 

gruel, 414 

water, 403 
Art of cookery, 3 
Artichoke, Jerusalem, 16S 

Globe, 163 
Asparagus. 168, 430 

cream of, 33 

B 

Bacon and eggs, 86 
Baked beans, 137. 481, ■J77 



Baked crackers, 139 

flour pudding, 219 

hash. 149, 42« 
Baking bread, iSa 

cake, 290 

powder, S91 

powder bread, 259 
Banana dainty, 203 

fritters, 184 

salai, 202 
Barley mush, 415 

soup, 38 
Bavarian cream, 214 
Bean soup, 418 
Beans, baked, 137, 431, 477 

Lima, 164, 433 

Mexican, 138 

pur4e, 137 

saute, 137 
B6chamel sauce, 116 
Beef & la mode, 70 

au gratin, 423 

birds, 76 

bDiUng, 68, 42« 

bouillon, 30 

broiling, 67 

braising, 69 

chauff^, 469 

chop suey, 74 

corned, 72, 424 

creamed, 76 

forcemeat, 106 

fricasseeing, 60 

frying, 68 

k'omeskies, 184 

loaf, 76, 454 

pats, 408 

pot-pie, 86 

purchasing, 65, 70 

roast, 67, 423 

roast with potatoes, 454 

roast with Yorkshire pudding, 
70 

roasting, 67 

saut6ing, 69 

499 



fieef scalloped, 150 

soup, 35 

stew, 423, 424, 454 

stewing, 69 

tea, 401 

terrapin, 71 
Beefsteak (broiling), 67 

and onions, 424 

en casserole, 476 
Beet greeas, 16?, 431 

salads, 199 
BeeU, 166, 430 

pickled, 168,431 
Belgrader bread, 303 
Berry charlotte, 217 

pudding, 223 
Bethlehem apple tart, 322 
Beverages, 391 
Birds* nests, 127 
Bisque ice cream, 234 
Black-bean soup, 39 
Blackberries stewed, 359 
Blackberry felly, 378 
Blanc mange, 210 
Blanquette of chicken, 162 
Blueberry cake, 294 
Bohemian houska, 266 
Boiled custard, 207 

dinner, 424 

frosting, 308 
Boiling meat, 68 
Bombe glac^, 232 
Boston brown bread, 264, 438 

roast, 138 
Bouillon, 30, 31, 490, 461 
Braising meat, 69 
Bread, 256-264 

crumbs, 108 

pudding, 218, 442 

rusk, 269 

sauce, 112 

sticks, 280 
Breakfasts. 481 
Bridge-whist pudding, 214 
Brioche. 268 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX 



Broiling, 67 
Brown Betty, 219 

bread. 264, 438 

bread pudding, 221 

sauce. 111 

sugar sauce, 248 
Browned soup stocky 417 
Brussels sprouts, 161 
Buckwheat cakes, 281. 282 
Bund Kuchen, 268 
Buns, 270, 271 
Butter cake, 293 

scotch, S47 



Cabbage, 160, 4S1 
with pork, 160 

Cafe frappe, 238 

parfoit, 239 
Cakes, 289, 439 
Calf's foot jelly, 408 

head, baked, 78 

liver, braised, 80 

liver, broiled, 80 

liver, stewed, 81 

liver, stuffed, 81 

liver with cream sauce, 79 
Canada egg bread, 263 
Canap^, 25 
Candied lemoD and orange peel, 

950 
Candy, 346, 470 
Canned blackberries, SdS 

blueberries. 368 

cherries, 368 

crab apples, 870 

currants, 368 

gooseberries, 369 

grapes, 368 - 

mushrooms, 871 

peach pudding, 221 

peaches, 369 

pears, 870 

pineapple, 370 

plums, 360 

quinces, 370 

raspberries, 367 

raspberries aud curraata, S68 

rhubarb. SQ9 



Canned tomatoes, S71 
Canning and preserving, 365 

fruit in water bath, 366 

in the preserving kettle, 367 

vegetables, 370 
Canvas-back ducks, 467 
Caper sauce, 116 
Caramel, 108 

custard, 212 

ice cream, 234 

sauce, 247 
Caramels, chocolate, 348 

Mexican, 349 
Carrots, 165, 432 

and peas, 165, 432 

steamed, 456 
Casserole cookery, 475 

hash, 477 

roast, 476 
CauUfiower, 161,432 

au gratin, 161 

creamed, 161 

polonaise, 161 

salad, 200 

steamed, 465 
Caviar canapes, 25 

sandwiches, 332 
Cereals, 339, 414 
Celery, cream of, S3 

creamed, 166, 432 

sauce, 116 
Chafing-dish cookery, 401 
Charlotte russe, 216 
Cheese, 133 

cake, 322 

canapes, 25 

cottage, 138 

filling for sandwiches, SSd 

omelet, 126 

rolls, 140 

scramble, 464 

souffle, 140 

soup, 36 

straws, 334 
Cherries, canned, 868 

preserved, 372 

pickled, 376 

stewed, 859 
Cherry conserve, 373 

mousse, 239 

pie, 322, 444 

pudding, 443 

500 



Cherry sauce for ices, 251 
tapioca, 217 

Chestnuts, 172 
Chicken H la crane, 186 

a la king. 186 

and oysters, 97 

barbecued, 96 

broiled, 96 

broth, 30 

croquettes, 187 

curry, 424 

en casserole, 475 

forcemeat, 105 

fricassee, 96, 421 

fried, 96 

gumbo, S7 

boUandaise, 462 

in ramekins, 478 

patties, 186 

pie, 96, 426 

planked, 95 

roast, 94, 426, 45S, 

salad, 195 

saute, 454 

soup, 418 

stew, 95, 425 

terrapin, 97 
Children's rusk, 269 
Chile bisque, 32 
Chili sauce, 386 
Chocolate cakes, 30^ 

caramels, 348 

charlotte, 216 

cream mints, 349 

creams, 346 

devils' food, 300 

drop cakes, 302 

Eclairs, 225 

filling, 309 

frapp^, 238 

frosting, 309 

fudge, 348 

hot, 393 

ice cream, 234 

nectar, 393 

parfait, 239 

pudding. 209 

sauce, 249, 260 

syrup, 393 
wafers, 305 
Chop suey. 74 
Chri«tiaa» cake» MO 



ALEHABETICAL INDEX 



Cinnamon bun, 265 

cake, 265 

candy» S47 

sweet cake, 297 

toast, 333 
Citron preserve, 375 
Clam and ^g scramble, 467 

bouillon, 31 

chowder, 41 

cocktail, 24 

fritters, 55 

soup, 32 

toast, 467 
Clams, 54 

k la cr^me, 466 

creamed, 55 

panned, 452 
Cleanlioesa, 7 
Club sandwich, 333 
Coarse loaf, 264 
Cocktails, 23-25 
Cocoa, 393 

bread, 263 

fudge, 248 

sauce, 251 
Cocoanut butter scotch, 348 

cake, 296 

cones, 351 

cornstarch, 209 

custard. 322 

filling, 310 

junket, 209 

macaroons, 304 

tapioca, 211 
Codfish, 53 

balls, 54, 421 

kedgaree, 127 
Coffee, 391 

cake, 26S 

ice cream, 234 

in bulk, 392 

instantaneous, 391 

ielly. 213 

loaf cake, 298 

serving, 392 
Cold slaw, 199 

slaw dressing, 109 
Colored Mayonnaise, 194 
Combination atdad, 197 

sherbet. 237 

sandwich, 333 
Consomm^, 30 



Cooked dressing, 194 
Cooker, fireleas, 413 

home-made, 413 
Cookies, 307 
Cooking by fireless, 413 
Cordial, 396 
Com and cheese souflSe, 139 

baked, 432 

baked with tomatoes, 432 

boiled green, 433 

bread, 262 

breELd with yeast, 262 

chowder, 41 

cream of, 34 

griddle cakes, 282 

meal mush, 340, 415 

muflHns, 276 

muffins with yeast, 276 

off the cob, 170 

on the cob, 170 

pudding, 171 

soup, 418 

succotash, 171 
Corned beef, 72, 422 

beef hash, 150 
Cornstarch cake, 296 

pudding, 208 
Cottage cheese, 138 

pudding, 218, 442 
Course dinner, 16 
Crab k la cr&aie, 467 
Crabs, deviled, 58 
Cracked wheat, 415 
Cracker gruel, 402 
Crackers, soaked, 405 
Cranberries, stewed, 359 
Cranberry frapp6, 238 

sauce, 116 

tart, 321 
Cream dressing, 194 

for puffs, 225 

of asparagus, 33 

of celery, 33, 419 

of com, 34 

of lettuce, 34 

of pea, 33, 420 

of potato, 32 

of spinach, 34 
of tomato, 33, 462 
of tomato sauce, 114 
of wheat, 417 
' peppermints, 349 

501 



Cream puffs, 2M 

«auce, 112, *47 

sponge, 292 

stock, SO 

toast, 405 
Creamed frizzled beef, 77 

hash, 150 
Croquettes, chicken, 187 

meat, 188 

potato, 174 

rice, 188 
Croutons, 41 
Crullers, 308 
Crumb griddle cakes, 282 
Crust tor pies, S17, 318, 319 
Cucumber salad, 199 
Cucumbers, stuffed, 177 
Cup cakes, 301 

custards, 212 
Currant drop cakes, 302 

Ice, 236 

Jelly, 378 

tea-ring, 267 
Curry of beef, 149 

of lamb, 150 

of veal, 78, 427 

sauce, 113 
Cusk i la crdme, 152 
Custard, 207, 406 

pie, 321, 444 

sauce, 247 
Cutlets, 152, 464 

D 

Dandelions, 165 

Date and fig sandwiches, 330 

sponge, 224 
Delicate pudding, 216 
Deviled crabs, 58 

eggs, 197 

meat, 469 
Devils* food, 300 
Diagram of cuts of beef, 68 

of cuts of lamb and mutton, 9i 

of cuts of pork, 84 

of cuts of veal, 79 
Dinner party, 12 

rolls. 273 
Dinners, 483 

without meat, 134 
I Divinity, 860 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX 



Divinity frosting, 309 
Doughnuts, MS, S06 
Drawn butter, 113 
Dressing, for roast, 106, 107 

for salad, 193-195 
Dried beans and peas, 164 

beans saut6, 137 

fruits, 359, Ul 

peas, beans, lentils, 135 
Drippings, 107 
Drop biscuit, 277 

cakes, 301, 302 

dumplings, 283 
Duck, roast, 97 
Dumplings, baksd apple, 320 

drop, 283 

rolled, 283 
Dutch cake, 266 

E 

Economical fruit cake, 296 

ice cream, 232 

short cake, 324 

soup, 38 
Economy, 5 
Egg and olive sandwiches, 332 

gruel, 402 

lemonade, 394 

milk-shake, 405 

muffins, 277 

salad, 198 

sandwiches, 331 

sauce, 112, 248 

toast, 333 
Eggplant, baked, 169 

broiled, 169 

fried, 170 
Eggs, 121 

baked a la Martin. 126 
' Beauregard, 127 

boiled, 121 

coddled, 121 

curried, 122, 463 

fried, 121 

griddled, 122 

in ramekins, 478 

Japanese, 127 

poached, 121 

scrambled, 122 

shirred, 122 

Spanish, 128 



Eggs, stirred, 464 
English Bath buns, 270 

monkey, 462 

muffios, 274 

plum pudding, 220 

scones, 272 
Entertaining, 11 
Entr6es, 183 
Evening collation, 19 



Farina, 341 

Farmers' cabbage, 161 

fruit cake, 296 
Fig dainty, 470 

dessert, 217 

filling, 310 

pudding, 442 

sandwiches, 330 
Figs, 407, 441 
Filipino beef, 76 
Fireless cookery, 413 
Fish, 420 

baked, 51. 421 

baked in paper bag, 453 

boiled, 50 

broiled, 51 

cleaning, 50 

croquettes, 15^ 

cutlets, 162 

forcemeat for baked, 106 

fried, 61 

scalloped, 153 

stuffed, 463 
Flaxseed tea, 403 
Flowering ice cream, 232 
Foamy sauce, 249 
Fondant, 345 
Food and its use.?, 4 
Forcemeats, stuffings, etc., 105 
Fraise salad, 203 
Frappe, 233 
I'rench dressing, 195 ' 

tart, 320 
Fricasseeing, 69 
Fritter batter, 183 
Frizzle-dizzle, 468 
Frizzled beef, 77 
Frog saddles, 468 
Frogs, 58 
Frosting, 308, 309 



Frozen cherries, 236 

coeoanut custard, 233 

custard, 233 

desserts, 231, 445 

fruits, 236 

peaches, 236 

pudding, 233 

raspberries, 236 
strawberries, 236 
Fruit, 357 
and nut salad, 201 
cake, 296, 296 
drinks, 394 
filling, 310 
granite, 237 
juices, 396 
jumbles, 307 
punch, 395 
pyramids, 208 
salad, 201 
sandwiches, 330 
sauce, 248 
syrup, 396 
Fruits glac6, 349 
Frying, 68 
Fudge, 348 



German coffee cake, 268 

suetine, 107 
Giblet sauce, 111 
Giblets, 94 
Ginger drop cakes, 302 

frappe, 238 

snaps 305 

sponge, 299 
Gingerbread, 299, 440 

crisp, 306 

orange, 306 
Gluten bread, 261 

gems, 278 
Gold cake, 293 
Golden buck, 126 
Graham bread, 259, 438 

muffins 274 

mush, 415 

puffs, 278 

wafers, 277 
Grape-fruit and pineappli Miad, 
203 

cocktail, 24 



503 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX 



Grape-fruit frapp*, 238 

marmalade, S73 

salad, 20S 
Grape Jelly, S78 

juice, 894 

sherbet, 287 
Green-grape jelly, 378 
Green peppers, stuffed, 169 

tomato sauce, 385 
Griddle cakes, 280-982 
Grouse, roasted, 99 
Guinea fowls, 98 
Guiso, 74 
Gumbo, 85 

H 

Half pu£E-paste. 318 
Halibut au gratin, 478 

baked fillets of, 53 

planked, 53 
Ham and eggs, 85 .-^^ 

baked, 85 _.-""' 

boiled, 84, 426 

broiled, 85 

canapes, 35 

forcemeat, 105 

frizzled, 86 

patties, 186 

stewed, 85 
Hamburg steak, 76 
Hard sauce, S50 
Hash, 149, 150 
Health pie, 324 
Heart, stuffed, 429 
Hints on serving, 16 
Hoarbound candy, 351 
Hollandaise sauce, 113 
Hominy, 341, 415 

pudding, 210 
'Horseradish sauce, 114 
Hot cakes, 280-283 

chocolate sauce, 249 

cross buna, 271 
Huckleberry pudding, 223 
Hungarian goulash, 76 



Ice creams and ices, 231 
Idng, 808 
Imperial sticks, 42 



India curry, 78 

Indian gruel, 402 
baked pudding, 222 
boiled pudding, 223 

Informal dinner, 18 

Introductions, 13 

Invalid cookery, 401 

Invitations in general, 17 

Irish stew, 83, 426 



Japan sandwiches, 332 
Jelliea, 376-379 
Jelly, coffee, 213 

lemon, 213 

making, 376 

roll, 292 

wine, 213 

sauce, 116 
Joyful pudding, 215 
Julienne soup, 38 
Jumbles. 306 

K 

Kale, 162 
Karo candy, 361 
Kedgaree, 127 
Kidneys, 87, 455 
Kisses, 308 
Kneading, 255 
Kohl-rabi, 166 
Koumiss, 407 



Lady cabbage, 160 

cake, 297 
Lake trout, baked, 421 
Layer cake, 296 
Lamb, boiled leg of,''426 

boiling, 68 

broiling, 67 

broth, 401 

chops, roasted, 426 

curry of, 150 

en casserole, 476 

fricasseeing, 69, 426 

frying, 68 

roasting, 67, 428 
Leeks, 163 

603 



I^ft-overs, 149 
Lemon butter, 360 

candied peel, 350 

cake, 295 

cream pie, 321 

filling, 310 

foam, 406 

ice, 235 

ice cream, 235 

jelly, 213 "-^' 

meringue pie, 320 

pie, 444 

sauce, 249 

sherbet, 237 

whey, 406 
Lemonade, 394 
Lentil soup, 420 
Lentils a la Creole, 136 

baked, 136 
Lettuce and cream-cheese sand- 
wiches, 331 

and walnut sandwiches, 331 

boiled, 162 

cream of, 34 

salad, 196 
Lima beans, 164, 433 

puree, 433 
Liver, 80, 81 

and bacon, 80 

stewed, 81 
Lobster, 57 

tk la cr&me, 466 

cocktail, 23 

deviled, 466 

salad, 196 

stew, 466 
Lunch rolls, 273 
Luncheons, 482 

M 

Macaroni, baked, 139, 436 

boiled, 177 

in ramekins, 477 

milanaise, 469 -• 

rarebit, 463 

with cheese, 139, 437 , 

with tomatoes, 437 
Macaroons, 304 
Mattre d'hotel butter, 113 
Maple mousse, 240 

sugar frosting, 309 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX 



Marble cake, 998 
Marine salad, SOI 
Marmalades, 373 
Marshmallow cake, 297 

filling, 310 
Marsbmallows, 360 
Mayonnaise dressing, 193 
Meat croquettes, 188 

filling for sandwiches, 339 

patties, 186 

pot-pie, 86 

recipes for the home-made 
cooker, 429 

sandwiches, 329 

stock, 29 

substitutes, 133 
Meats. 422 

cooking, 65 

purchasing, 65 
Menu and table, 15 

Tor full course dinner, 15, 16 
Menus, 481 

for dinners without meat, 134 

simple breakfasts, 481 

simple dinners, 483 

simple luncheons, 482 
Meringues, 307 

glac^es, 233 
Mexican beef, 74 

caramels, 349 

rarebit, 463 
Migas, 139 
Milk bread, 258 

toast, 404 
Mince-meat, 323 
Mint ielly, 377 

sauce, 112 
Mixed fruit cocktail, 24 

pickle dressing, 385 

pickles, 385 
Mixing, cake, 289 
Mocha Torte, 299 
Mock charlotte, 209 

crab sandwiches, 332, 

cream, 250 

duck, 73 

Mayonnaise, 194 

pound cake, 296 

rabbit. 73 

turtle, 35 

venison, 150 
Mock wild duck, 429 



Molasses cake, 299 

candy, S'iQ, 347 
Mollette. 283 
Moravian cake, 269 
Mt. Clemens rarebit, 463 
Mountain-dew pudding, 212 
Mousse, 239, 445 
Muffins, 274-277 
Mull aga tawny, 37 
Mush, 340 

fried, 340 
Mushroom catsup, 387 

sauce. 115 
Mushrooms k la poulette. 172 

baked, 171 

broiled, 171 

stewed, 172 

with bacon, 469 
Mutton, boiling, 68 

braising, 69 

broiUnc, 67 

chops 'with peas, 83 

cutlets, 454 

haricot of, 82 

Irish stew, 83 

pot-pie, 86 

purchasing, 81 

ragout of, 83 

roasting, 67 

shoulder, boiled, 82 

shoulder, stuffed, 81 

soup, 36 

stew, 454 

N 

Nasturtium salad, 198 
Newmarket pudding, 220 
Noodle soup, 39 
Normandy salad, 201 
Nougat, 346 

Novel tomato salad, 197 
Nut and cheese relish, 143 

and fruit cheese, 141 

and raisin sandwiches, 330 

bread, 262 

butter, 141 

cake, 440 

macaroons, 304 

roast, 141 

sandwiches, 330 

504 



Nut souffle, Ui 
Nuts glac4, S49 

o 

Oft cakes, 302 

cookies, 303 
Oatmeal, 416 

griddle cakes, 280 

gruel, 401, 402 

muffins, «75 

porridge, 339 

with cheese, 340 
October salad, 20« 
Okra, 169 

Olive sandwiches, 330 
Omelet, baked, 125 

cheese, 126 

cod6sh, 135 

com, 124 

cmmb, 124 

ham, 123 

oyster, 125 

plain, 122 

rice, 123 

savory, 123 

sweet, 124 

tomato, 124 
One-egg cake, 296 

waffles, 279 
Onions, boiled, 166, 433 

fried, 167 

scalloped, 167 

stewed, 166 
Orange cake, 293 

filling, 310 

gingerbread, 300 

ice, 23S 

marmalade, 374 

paste, 350 

pekoe sherbet, 238 

pudding, 210 

sherbet, 237 
Ornamental frosting, 308 
Oven scones, 271 
Ox eyes, 126 
Ox-tail soup, 36 
Oyster bouillon, 31 

cocktail, 23 

fritters, 183 

pan-roast, 465 

pie, 55 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX 



Oyster sauce, 115 

soup, 31 

stew, 56 
Oysters, breaded* 452 

broiled. 57 

brown fricaasec of, 477 

creamed, 56 

creamed with celery, 4ti5 

fried, 55 

on toast, 408 

panned, 67, 452, 465 

roasted, 465 

scalloped, 56, 477 

shirred, 56 



Panada, 404 

chicken, 40S 

French, 404 
Paper-bag cookery, 451 
Parfait, 239, 445 
Parker-House rolls, 273 
Parsnips, 165, 433 
Partridges, 98 
Pastry and pies, 317 
Patriotic cake (1776 recipe). 
Patties, 186, 187 
Patty shells, 187 
Pea, cream of, 33 
Peach butter, 376 

cobbler, 224 

cocktail, 25 

crusts, 319 

ice cream, 235 

patties, 221 

pie, 323 

pudding, 219 

tart, 323 
Peaches, baked, 368 

dried, 441 

stewed, 368 
Peanut brittle, 347 

butter, 141 

cakes, 307 

salad, 202 
Pea-pod soup, 33 
Peas, green, 164, 433, 455 

sugar, 164 
Pears, baked, 35S 

dried, 442 
Peffiy cake, 209 



Pepper and cream cheese salad, 198 

pot, 37 
Pcppernuta, 303 
Peppers, pickled, 386 

staffed, 435 
Perfect cream wafers, 277 
Pcttijohn's breakfast food, 416 
Pheasants, 98 
Pickle for corning beef, 72 
Pickled beets, 166 

cherries, 375 

cucumbers, 387 

peppers, 386 

tomatoes, 386 
Pickles, 385 
Pie crust, 317-319 
Pies, 320-324 

baking, 317 
Pigeon pie, 97 
Pigs' feet in jelly, 86 
Pigs in blankets, 465 
Pimiento bisque, 40 

roast, 138 
Pineapple and banana cocktail, 94 

ice, 236 

ice cream, 235 

mousse, 240 
Pinoche, 347 
Piquante sauce, 112 
Plain cake, 294 

frosting, 308 

paste, 319 
Planked chops, 83 

lobster, 58 

shad, 52 f 

Salisbury steak, 72 

steak with oysters, 73 
Plum jeUy, 379 
Pop-corn balls, 349 
Pop-overs, 278 
Pork chops, 84 

roast, 84, 427 

tenderloin, 427 
Pot pie, 86 

roast, 70 
Potato balls, 174 

cakes, 174 

chips, 456 

cream of, 32 

croquettes, 174 

Hour cake, 292 

puff, 17« 

605 



Potato salad, 198 

soup, 419 
Potatoes au gratin, 175 

boiled, 172, 435 

baked, 173, 434 

baked sweet, 430 

browned, 175 

candied sweet, 176 

creamed, 174, 434 

French fried, 173 

fried sweet, 176 

hashed brown, 173 

lyonnaise, 175 

mashed, 173, 434 

new in cream, 174 

on the half-shell, 407 

saut^ of, 456 

scalloped, 175, 434 

steamed, 173, 434 

stuffed, 173 
Potted meat, 151 
Poultry and game, 93 

marketing, 93 

to dress, 93 

to stuff, 94 

to truss, 94 
Pound cake, 293 
Pralines, 348 
Preserved cherries, 372 

pineapple, 373 

plums and green gages, 372 

strawberries, 372 

strawberries andpineappple,378 

yellow tomatoes, 374 
Preserving fruit, 371 
Prune whip, 215 
Prunes, 442 
Puddings and desserts, 207 

in fireless, 442 
Puff-paste, 317 
Pulled bread, 42 
Pumpkin pie, 320, 444 
Punch, 392, 396 

frozen, 237, 238 
Purchasing beef, 70 
Pur^ of dried beans, 137 
Purposes of cooking, 7 



Q 



Quail, 99> 468 
roast, 453 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX 



Queen of puddJDga, 210 
Quenelles, 105 
Quince jelly, 377 
Quincea, baked, 358 
stewed, 858 

R 

Rabbit, 98 

curried, 188 

panned, 98 
Raisin bread, 263 

compote, 374 

pie, 321 

puff, 220 
Ralston'a breakfast food, 416 
Rarebit, 126, 469 
Raspberries and currants, 368 

3tewed, 359 
Raspberry and currant jelly, 378 

CQcktail, 24 

jelly, 378 

sauce, 249 

Wnegar, 395 
Realengo, 216 
Reed birds, 99 
Rhubarb pie, 320 

stewed, 359 
Ribbon sandwiches, 331 
Rice and figs, 416 

baked, 140 

blanc mange, 210 

boiled, 341, 416 ' 

bread, 269 

cakes, 282 

English, 140 

in milk, 341 

in ramekins, 477 

meringue, 208 

muffins, 276 

pudding, 207 

water, 404 
Rinktum ditty, 462 
Ripe-grape jelly, 378 
Aissoles, 184 
Roasted meats, 429 
Roasting, 67 
Rolled dumplings, 283 

steak, 73 

wheat, 416 
Rolls, 273 
Roman gnocchi, IS-J 



Round steak on biscuits, 423 
Rusk, 269 
Russian tea, 392 
Rye bread, 261 



Sago gruel, 402 

Salad dressing, cooked, 194 

dressing, cream, 194 

dressing, French, 195 

dressing, in large quantity, 195 

dressing. Mayonnaise, 193, 194 
Salads, 193 
SaUy Lunn, 275 
Salmagundi salad, 200 
Salmi of game, 188 
Salmon au gratin, 478 

boiled, 422 

creamed, 54 

scalloped, 421 

salad, 196 

surprise, 54 
Salsify, 165 
Salt fish dinner, 53 

pork in milk, 86 

rising bread, 259 
Salted almonds, 334, 470 

peanuts, 334 
Sand tarts, 307 
Sandwiches and savories, 329 
Sardine salad, 196 

sandwiches, 332 

savory, 467 
Sardines, creamed, 468 
Sauces, 111 

sweet, 247 
Sauer kraut, 436 
Saut6ing, 69 
Savarin, 224 
Scallops, fried, 54 
Scones, 271, 272 
Scotch oat cake, 278 

short bread, 264 
Shad, baked, 52 

planked, 52 

roe, 52 
Shellbark cake, 294 
Sherbets, 237 

Shin meat en casserole, 478 
Short cake, 324 
Shrimp a la crcDie, \Q7 

506 



Shrimp salad, 196 

wiggle, 461 
Silver cake, 294 
Smelts, fried, 53 

sur le plat, 453 
Snippy-dosdle, 299 
Soups, 29, 417 
Sour beef, 76 

cream biscuit, 277 

milk biscuit, 278 

milk cake, 440 
Spanish beefsteak, 74 

bun, 301 

crccim, 214 

mackerel in butter, 453 
Spiced currants, 374 

pears, 375 
Spinach, 162, 435 

cream of, 34 
Sponge cake, 291, 292, 439 

cake pudding, 222 

ginger cake, 299 
Squabs or any small birds, 40S 
Squash, 170, 435 

baked, 170 

pie, 320 

steamed, 170 
Steamed fruit pudding, 223 
Stew from cold meat, 161 

Irish, 83 
Stewing meat, 69 
Stock for soup, 29-30, 417 

scramble, 464 
Strawberries and pineapple, 37£ 

presen'ed, 372 
Strawberry cocktail, 24 

ice cream, 235 

jeUy, 378 

trifle, 213 
String beans, 435 
Stuffing, bread, 107 

for bated fish, 108 

oyster, 106 

potato, 107 
Succotash, 171 
Suet pudding, 221 
Suetine, 107 
Sunshine orange, 405 
Supreme sauce, 115 
Surprise cake, 298 

sandwiches, 331 
Sweet French buns, 270 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX 



Sweet sandwiches* 331 

sauces, 247 
Sweetbreads, broiled, 87 

in firelesa, 427 

scalloped, 465 

stewed, 87 



Table sjTup 251 
Tapioca, 407 

and apples, 443 

custard, 211, 443 

Tart, Bsthlahsm, 822 

cranberry, 320 

French, 320 

peach, 322 
Tartare sauce, 113 
Tartlets, 319 
Tea, 392 

biscuits, 272, 438 

iced, 393 

punch, 392 
. rolls, 272 
Terrapin, 67, 464 
Three-egg waffles, 280 
Timbale of macaroni, 185 

rice, 185 

Swedish, 185 
Toast, cinnamon, 333 

cream, 465 

egg, 333 

milk, 4B4 

water. 403 
Tomato catsup, 386 

cream of, 33 

curry, 469 

jeUy, 197 

salad (combiBatien), 107 

salad (novel), 197 

sauce, 114 

scramble, 464 

soup, 39, 418 



Tomato surprise, 195 
Tomatoes, baked, 46ff 

boiled, 436 

fried, 168 

scalloped, 167 

stewed, 167, 436 

stuffed, 167 
Tongue, boiled, 77, 427 

smoked, boiled, 78 
Torto frutas, 319 
Tripe, 87 
Tulip salad, 203 
Turbot, 422 
Turkey, 97 

bone soup, 36 
Turkish pilaf, 168 
Turnips, boUed, 164, 436 

steamed, 465 
Turtle soup, 419 
Tutti-frutti, 376 

ice cream, 234 



Vanilla ice cream, 232 

sauce, 249 
Veal and rice, 428 

cakes, 151 

croquettes, 427 

curry of, 78 

forcemeat, 106 

loaf, 78. 428 

pot-pie, 86 

roast, 428 

rolls, 428 

with asparagus tips, 468 
Vegetable fritten, 183 

hash, 177 

meat pie, 142 

soup, 40, 419 

stack, 29 
Vegetables, 159, 480 
Venison, haunch of, roasted, 99 



Venison, neck and shoulder, 99 

steak, 100 
Vermicelli soup, 38 
Vol-au-vent, 187 

w 

Waffles, 279, 280 

Walnut and date dainty, 226 

bread, 262 

salad, 202 
Washington pie, 323 
Water-lily salad, 200 
Watermelon salad, 201 
Welsh rarebit, 126, 462 
Wheat cereals, 340 

griddle cakes, 280 

muffins, 275 
Whey, lemon, 406 
Whipped apple sauce, 406 
Whipped cream, 248 
Whipped jelly, 213 
Whips, 215 
White bread in bread-mixer, 268 

bread, over night, 267 

bread, quick method, 257 

bread, sponge method, 257 

cup cake, 297 

fish, boiled, 421 

Mayonnaise, 194 

sauce, 114 

soup stock, 417 
Winter salad, 200 



Yeast, 266 
Yorkshire pudding, 70 



Zwieback, 279 



507 



FOOD ECONOMY 



with 



SUGGESTIONS 
and RECIPES 



for 



SUBSTITUTIONS 

in the planning of meals 



Prepared from material furnished by The United States Food 

Administration, Herbert C. Hoover, Food Administrator, 

Washington, D. C, 1918 



CONTENTS 



PAGE 

What You can Do to Help Win this War ... 3 

Suggestions for Substitutions 5 

Meal Planning 6 

Save Wheat 10 

Yeast 10 

Bread Recipes 11 

Quick Recipes 15 

Soups 17 

Meat Saving 18 

Extenders 18 

Substitutes 19 

Sauces 22 

Fat Saving 23 

Sugar Saving 24 

Cake Recipes 25 

Puddings 27 

Candies 27 

Table of Weights and Measures 29 



WHAT YOU CAN DO TO HELP 
WIN THIS WAR 

OUR PROBLEM is to feed our Allies this winter by sending 
them as much food as we can of the most concentrated nutri- 
tive value in the least shipping space. These foods are wheat, 
beef, pork, dairy products, and sugar. 

OUR SOLUTION is to eat less of these and more of other 
foods of which we have an abundance, and to waste less of all 
foods. 

BREAD AND CEREALS.— Have at least one wheatless day 
each week and one wheatless meal a day, when you use corn, oat, 
rye, barley, or mixed cereal rolls, muffins, and breads in place of 
white bread. Eat less cake and pastry. Order your bread from 
the baker a day in advance. Cut the bread on the table. Use 
stale bread for toast and cooking. 

MEAT. — Have at least one meatless day each week and one 
meatless meal each day. In addition have at least one porkless 
day each week, when you use no fresh or salted pork, bacon, lard 
or ham. Use more poultry, rabbits, and especially fish and sea 
foods in place of beef, mutton, and pork. Do not use either beef, 
mutton, or pork more than once daily, and then serve smaller 
portions. Use all left-over meat. Use soups more freely. Use 
beans ; they have nearly the same food value as meat. 

MILK. — Use all of the milk, waste no part of it. The children 
must have whole milk, therefore, use less cream. Use sour milk 
in cooking and to make cottage cheese. Use skim milk. Use 
buttermilk and cheese freely. 

FATS (Butter, Lard, Etc.). — Dairy butter has food values 
vital to children. Therefore, use it on the table as usual, especially 
for children. Use as little as possible in cooking. Reduce the 

3 



FOOD ECONOMY 



use of fried foods. Use vegetable oils, as olive and cottonseed 
oil. Save daily one-third of an ounce of animal fat. Waste no 
soap; it contains fat and the glycerine necessary for explosives. 
Make scrubbing soap at home or sell your saved fats to the soap 
makers. 

SUGAR. — Use less candy and sweet drinks. Use less sugar 
in tea and coffee. Use honey, maple syrup, and dark syrups for 
hot cakes and waffles without butter or sugar. Do not frost or 
ice cakes. Do not stint the use of sugar in putting up fruits and 
jams. They may be used in place of butter. 

VEGETABLES AND FRUITS.— We have a superabundance 
of vegetables. Double the use of vegetables. They take the 
place of part of the wheat and meat, and, at the same time, are 
healthful. Use potatoes abundantly. Store potatoes. Use 
fruits generously. 



SUGGESTIONS FOR SUBSTITUTIONS 

LET US REMEMBER 

Let us remember that every flag that flies opposite the enemy's 
is by proxy the American flag, and that the armies fighting in our 
defense under these flags can not be maintained through this 
winter unless there is food enough for them and for their women 
and children at home. There can be food enough only if America 
provides it. And America can provide it only by the personal 
service and patriotic co-operation of all of us. 



The Soldiers Need 



The Folks at Home Can Use 





Corn 




Oats 


Wheat 


Barley 




Rye 




Cottonseed Oil 


Butter 


Peanut Oil 




Corn Oil 


Lard 


Drippings 




Molasses 


Sugar 


Honey 




Syrups 




Chicken 


Bacon 


Eggs 




Cottage Cheese 


Beef 


Fish 


Mutton 


Nuts 




Peas 


Pork 


Beans 



For cooking 



MEAL PLANNING 

Study your meals. Plan them for at least three days in advance. 
This helps you to buy to better advantage, gives variety in mate- 
rial and preparation. 

Ask yourself the following questions about your meal : 

Does this plan mean — 

1. The use of home-grown products and thus allow the rail- 

roads to be hauling supplies for the army instead of 
food for my family? 

2. The exchange of milk, cheese, eggs, fish, game, beans, 

nuts and peas for beef, mutton, pork? 

3. The use of barley, buckwheat, corn, oats, potatoes and 

rye instead of wheat? 

4. Plenty of whole milk for the children? 

5. Twelve ounces of fat per adult per week and six ounces 

per child per week? The substitution of the vegetable 
fats wherever possible? 

6. The substitution of honey, molasses, corn syrup or other 

syrup for sugar, so as to reduce the amount of sugar 
used to three pounds or less per person per month? 

7. Meals adapted to the season and pocketbook? Have 

they character, color, flavor? 

8. Meals which include at least one food from each of the 

following classes, except III? 

FOOD CLASSES 

Group I. Protein — Dried beans, eggs, meat, milk, peas» 
bread. 

Group II. Starch — Cereals, potatoes, tapioca. 

Group III. Sugar— Desserts, honey, jellies, dried fruits. 

Group IV. Fats — -Butter, cream, corn, peanut, and cottonseed 
oil, oleomargarine. 

Group V. Regulators, Mineral Salts and Acids — Fruits, vege- 
tables, milk. 

6 



FOOD ECONOMY 



HELP IN PLANNING MEALS 

CHOOSE WISELY COOK CAREFULLY SERVE NICELY 

Following are sample menus illuatrating the proper selection of food from the five prindpa! classes: 



Pbotein 
Whole milk 



Starches 

Oatmeal with dates 
Rye toast 



SUOABS 

BREAKFAST 



Bean and nut loaf Hot cornbread 
Brown potatoes 

Cream of pea soup Baked potatoes 
Rye bread 



Fats 

Oleomargarine 
Oleomargarine 



DINNER 

Syrup 

SUPPER 

Oatmeal cookies Oleomargarine 

BREAKFAST 

Syrup Nut butterine 

DINNER 
Rice and tomato Stuffed potatoes Gingerbread Nut butterine 



MiKERAL AND 

Cellulose 
Stewed prunes 

Stewed tomatoes 



Celery 
Baked apples 



Whole milk 



Hominy grits 
Oatmeal muffins 



with a little Ham- 
burg ateak 



(tornmeal) 
SUPPER 



Scalloped corn 
Rye bread 
Cornmeal wafers 

BREAKFAST 
Buckwheat cakes Syrup 
Barley bread 

DINNER 
Cornmeal batter 
bread 

SUPPER 

Baked hominy and Oatmeal yeast Cornmeal ginger- Butter 

cheese bread bread 



Cottage cheese 
salad 



Whole milk 
Fish chowder 



Nut butterine 



Butter 
Butter 



Orange 
Cold slaw 



Oatmeal Brown 
Betty 



Stewed apricots 



Beets, boiled , 
Fruit salad 



Boiled onions 



SUGGESTIONS FOR CONSERVATION 

in 
COURSE DINNERS AND LUNCHEONS 



Cream of vegetable. 
Clam. 



Soups — 
Oyster. 
Lobster. 
Oatmeal (Scotch Soup) . 

Entrees — 
Omelets. 

Any fish — with lemon or tomato sauce 
Shellfish. 
Mushrooms. 



Meats — 






Chicken. 


Goose. 


Squab. 


Fish. 


Pheasant. 


Turkey. 


Duck. 


Rabbit. 

7 


Venison. 



FOOD ECONOMY 



Salads — 

Cottage cheese. Vegetables. 

Fish. Nuts. 

Fruits and cheese. 

Desserts — 

Gelatine jellies with fruits and nuts. 

Cereals molded with dates and raisins. 

Fresh or stewed dried fruits. 

Blanc manges. 

Tapioca creams with fruits. 

Ices sweetened with maple syrup or honey. 

Date and fig puddings, using oatmeal or barley flour. 

Buckwheat shortcake with fruit. 

War cake (boiled raisin cake). 

Spiced oatmeal cakes. 

Cornmeal cookies. 

Tarts — crust of cornmeal or oatmeal. 

Oatmeal macaroons. 

Pies — 

Mock mince — green tomatoes. 

Pvunpkin or cream with cornmeal crust. 

Custard. 

Raisin. 
Serve no white bread with dinner. 
Serve no butter with lunch or dinner. 
Use no toast as garnish. 
Use no croutons. 
Use no bacon for trimming. 
Use left-over meats, minced or in stews. 
Use vegetables in omelets. 

Use potatoes in many forms — stuffed, puffed, scalloped with 
cheese. 



LUNCHEON 

Any of the foods suggested above, using as the main dish such 
meat-saving dishes as the following : 

Bean loaf. 
Nut loaf. 



FOOD ECONOMY 



Nut and cottage-cheese loaf. 
Baked hominy and cheese. 

Baked rice and cheese (adding tomato, pimento or any vege- 
table for flavor). 
Eggs with mushrooms. 
Eggs scrambled with vegetables. 
Fish chowder. 
Wheat-saving breads as — 
Quick breads, muffins, etc., using cornmeal, buckwheat, rye, 

oatmeal and dried fruits if desired. 
Yeast bread, using any of the cereals mentioned above and 
no fat. 



SAVE WHEAT 

SAVE BREAD 

Cut it on the table, so that none is left to dry. 

Do not have stale bread. 

Do not use toast as a garnish or serve food on toast. 

If there are bits of bread left, dry and grind or pound, using 

the crumbs in place of flour. 
Do not use crackers made from wheat (or graham) flour, or 

serve croutons with soup. 
Do not use breakfast cereals made from wheat. 
If you use macaroni, spaghetti, any Italian paste or noodles, 

remember that it is made of wheat and do not serve bread 

at the same meal. 
Use cornstarch or rice flour for thickening sauces and gravies 

and in puddings. (Use half as much as you would of 

flour.) 
Remember — ^bread made of mixed flours is better body-building 

material than that made from one grain alone. 

BREAD MAKING 

If you have good recipes for bread of any kind, make them con- 
form to food conservation by omitting sugar and fat and by using 
at least one-fourth wheat substitute. The recipes below tell how 
to use or add the substitutes. Bread mixers may be used in all 
of these recipes. 

In using part of other grains than wheat, the loaf will be as 
nourishing, but usually not so large or light. 

All measures in these Food Economy recipes are level. The 
flour is measured after sifting. 

YEAST 

Because of the high price of yeast it may be economical when 
bread is made frequently or in large quantities to prepare liquid 

10 



FOOD ECONOMY 



yeast. In making the bread the amount of yeast used, of what- 
ever kind, will depend upon the time in which the process is to be 
carried through. 

LIQUID YEAST 

(Economical because of high price of yeast) 

4 medium sized potatoes 1 cake dry yeast, softened in 14 

1 quart hot water cup of warm water, or 

1 teaspoon salt 1 cake of compressed yeast 

Vi cup sugar 

Wash, pare and cook the potatoes in the water. Drain, mash 
and return to the water. Make up to one quart. Add the sugar 
and salt, and allow the mixture to cool. When lukewarm add the 
yeast. Keep at room temperature (65° to 70° F.) for 24 hours 
before using. If kept for a longer time it should be poured into a 
sterilized jar and put in a dark, cool place. 

Each of these recipes make one loaf. The weight of the differ- 
ent breads will vary from 18 ounces to 23 ounces. 

CORNMEAL YEAST BREAD 

IVi cups milk and water, or % cup commeal 

water 2% cups flour 

2 tablespoons sugar (if desired) V2 cake compressed yeast 

1 tablespoon fat (if desired) V4 cup warm water 

2 teaspoons salt 

Add sugar, fat and salt to liquid and bring to boiling point. 
Add cornmeal slowly, stirring constantly until all is added. 
Remove from fire, cool mixture, and add compressed yeast soft- 
ened in }4 cup warm water. Add 23^ cups flour and knead. 
Let rise until about double its bidk, knead again, and put in pan. 
When light, bake in moderate oven for at least an hour 

OATMEAL BREAD 

1 cup liquid Va to Vi yeast cake, softened in 

11/2 teaspoons salt V4 cup lukewarm water 

1 cup rolled oats 21/2 cups flour 

Long Process 

Scald the liquid, add salt and pour it over the rolled oats in a 

bread mixer or mixing bowl. Cool slowly, letting it stand half 

hour. Add the yeast and 1 cup of flour. Cover and allow the 

sponge to rise as directed in the recipe for cornmeal bread. When 

11 



FOOD ECONOMY 



light, add the remainder of the flour, knead, cover and let rise 
until double in bulk. Shape into a loaf, cover, let rise again until 
it doubles in bulk and bake. 

Short Process 
Follow the directions as given above, but add all the flour at 
one time. 

POTATO BREAD 

11/4 cups mashed potato (packed % to V4 yeast cake softened in 

solid) 2 tablespoons lukewarm 

V/2 teaspoons salt water 

214 cups flour — more or less flour may be needed 

Note: Mashed sweet potato or cooked cereal or squash may 
be used in the same way as the Irish potato. In using any sub- 
stitute which has a marked flavor it is better to try the bread 
first with less than IJ^ cups and add more liquid. Squash rolls 
are very good. 

Long Process 

Cool the mashed potatoes to lukewarm, add the salt and the 
yeast softened in the warm water and about }4 cup of flour. 
Mix well, cover and let rise until very light. 

To the well-risen sponge, add the remaining flour, kneading 
thoroughly. The dough should be very stiff, as it softens con- 
siderably in rising. Cover and let rise until double in bulk. 
Shape into a loaf, cover, let rise again until it has increased 2J^ 
times in bulk, and bake. 

Short Process 
Follow the directions as given above, but add all the flour at 
once. The dough in this case is so stiff that it is difl5cult to work 
in all the flour. 

RYE BREAD 

1 cup liquid V& to V4 cake yeast, softened in 

1 teaspoon salt 14 cup lukewarm water 

214 cups rye flour 2V4 cups white flour 

Note: The proportion of rye flour used may be increased to 
3 cups of rye flour and ^ cup of white if desired. This dough is 
soft and can be made into the old-fashioned flat loaf. 

12 



FOOD ECONOMY 



Long Process 

Scald the liquid, cool to lukewarm, add the salt, yeast and half 
the flour. Beat thoroughly, cover and let rise until very light. 
Then add the remainder of the flour, knead, cover and let rise 
until double in bulk. Shape into a loaf, cover and let rise again 
until double in bulk and bake. 

Short Process 
Follow the directions as given above, but add all the flour at 
once. 

This same method may be used for bread in which buckwheat 
flour is used. It may be substituted for 3^ to ^ of the wheat 
flour. The buckwheat bread is dark and has a characteristic 
flavor. 

BARLEY BREAD 

1 cup liquid % to i/4 cake yeast, softened in 

1 teaspoon salt V4 cup lukewaim water 

21/3 cups white flour H cups barley flour 

Long Process 
Scald the liquid, cool to lukewarm, add the salt, the softened 
yeast and half the flour. Beat thoroughly, cover and let rise 
until very light. Then add the remainder of the flour. Knead, 
cover and let rise until double in bulk. Shape into a loaf, cover 
and let rise again until double in bulk. Bake. 

Short Process 

Follow the directions as given above, but add all the flour at 

once. 

PEANUT BREAD 

1 cup lukewarm liquid 1 or 2 tablespoons syrup 

1 teaspoon salt Va to Vi cake yeast softened in 

3 cups flour (more if desired) Vi cup lukewarm water 

I cup peanut meal* or flour 

Long Process 
Follow the directions given for the long process under Corn- 
meal Bread, making the sponge with part of the liquid and flour, 
salt and yeast. When light add the rest of the liquid, the syrup, 

•Peanut meal may be prepared by shelliDg roasted peanuU, removing red skin, and crushing the 
Wts with a rolling pin. 

13 



FOOD ECONOMY 



the peanut meal and the remainder of the flour. Knead until 
smooth and elastic, adding more flour if necessary to secure the 
proper consistency. Cover and let rise until double in bulk. 
Shape into a loaf, cover and let rise until 23/^ times the original 
bulk. Bake 50 to 60 minutes in a moderately hot oven (400° F.) 

Short Process 
Dissolve the salt and syrup in the cup of lukewarm liquid. 
Add to it the softened yeast and add all to the mixture of flour 
and peanut meal. Knead until smooth and elastic. From this 
point follow the directions as given for long process 

COOKED CEREAL MUFFINS (10-12 Muffins) 

114 cups flour 1/2 cup milk 

4 teaspoons baking powder 1 egg 

34 teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon melted fat 

1 cup cooked rice 

Sift together the dry ingredients. Add the milk, beaten egg 
and melted fat to the cooked rice. Beat thoroughly. Finally 
add the sifted dry ingredients Mix well. Bake in greased 
mufiin tins about Y2 hour in a moderately hot oven. 

Other cooked cereals or mashed potatoes may be used in this 
recipe. If the dough is too soft add a little more flour; if too thick, 
a little more liquid. 

BUCKWHEAT MUFFINS (10-12 Muffins) 

1 cup buckwheat 1 ^4 cups mlk 

1 cup wheat flour 1 egg 

4 teaspoons baking powder 1 teaspoon melted fat 

3/4 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons molasses.. 

Sift together the dry ingredients. Combine the milk, beaten 
egg, melted fat and molasses. Add the liquid to the dry ingre- 
dients. Mix well and bake Yi hour In a moderately hot oven. 

Rye flour or 1 cup of barley meal and 1 cup of wheat flour may 
be used in this recipe if the liquid is reduced to 1 or IJ^ cups. 
The buckwheat flour absorbs more liquid than other flours. 

If you can get corn flour, barley flour, rye meal, peanut flour, 
soy bean meal, a great variety of muffins can be made. Com- 
binations of y^ barley flour, Y^ corn flour and Yz wheat flour, or 
Y2 rye meal, Y cornmeal and Y wheat flour have been found 
satisfactory. 

14 



FOOD ECONOMY 



CORN DODGERS (Makes 14 biscuits) 

2 cups commeal 2 teaspoons fat 

1 teaspoon salt 1% cups boiling water 

Pour the boiling water over the other materials. Beat well. 
When cool form into thin cakes and bake }4 hour in a hot oven. 
These crisp biscuits are good served hot with butter or gravy. 

"FIFTY-FIFTY" BISCUITS 

2 cups cornmeal, ground soy 2 teaspoons salt 

beans or finely ground pea- 4 tablespoons shortening (if de- 
nuts, rice, flour or otlier sired) 
substitute Liquid suflBcient to mix to proper 

2 cups white flour consistency (1-1 Vi cups) 

4 teaspoons baking powder 

CORNMEAL BREAD 

11/2 cups commeal 2 cups milk 

4 teaspoons baking powder 1 egg (omitted if desired) 

1 teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon melted fat 
1 tablespoon flour 

Mix and sift the dry ingredients. Combine the milk, beaten 
egg and melted fat, and add to the dry ingredients. Mix well, 
pour into greased muffin tins and bake in a hot oven about 20 
minutes. This bread should be served hot. 

If a softer bread is desired, the cornmeal, salt and milk may be 
brought to a boil and cooked for 10 minutes in a double boiler or 
over hot water. Cool, add the beaten egg, melted fat and baking 
powder. The flour is not necessary. Beat well and bake in a hot 
oven. This same mixture may be baked as griddle cakes. 

GRIDDLE CAKES 

1 cup milk V2 cup flour 

1 egg % teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon melted fat 4 teaspoons baking powder 

IV^ cups cooked oatmeal 

Combine the milk, beaten egg and melted fat. Beat this into 
the cooked oatmeal. Add the flour, salt and baking powder 
which have been sifted together. Bake on a hot, greased griddle. 

Other cooked cereals, mashed Irish potatoes, sweet potatoes, 
etc., may be used in place of the oatmeal. When rice is used, 
14 cup more flour is necessary. 

Griddle cakes may also be made using 14 or more of cornmeal 
or buckwheat flour. 

16 



FOOD ECONOMY 



If desired, sour milk may be substituted in these recipes for the 
sweet. In doing this the quantity must usually be increased a 
little. Use 3^ teaspoon of soda for each cup of sour milk. For 
each }/2 teaspoon of soda the quantity of baking powder can be 
reduced by 2 teaspoons. 

CORNMEAL CRISPS (Salad Wafers) 

Vi cup commeal 1 tablespoon fat 

1/2 cup wheat flour 3 tablespoons milk (about) 

% teaspoon salt 

Sift together the dry ingredients. Cut the fat into the flour 
and add sufficient liquid to make a dough that can be rolled thin. 
Cut into diamonds or other shapes. Bake in a quick oven until 
golden brown. This makes 60 to 65 wafers 2 inches by 2 inches. 

If desired, after rolling out the dough, sprinkle with grated 
cheese and paprika. Make into cheese straws. 



16 



SOUPS 

SCOTCH SOUP 

With bread and dessert it is enough for lunch or supper 

2% quarts water 2 onions, sliced 

IVi cups rolled oats 2 tablespoons flour 

5 potatoes cut in small pieces 2 tablespoons fat 

Boil the water and add the oatmeal, potato, and onion, Yi table- 
spoon of salt and }/2 teaspoon pepper. Cook for Y2 hour. Brown 
the flour with the fat and add to the soup. Cook until thick. 
One cup of tomato adds to the flavor. Serves 5 people. 

MILK-VEGETABLE SOUPS , 

1 quart milk (skim milk may be 2 cups thoroughly cooked vege- 

used) table, finely chopped, 

2Vi tablespoons flour mashed or put through a 

2 tablespoons butter or marga- sieve. Spinach, peas, 

rine or other fat beans, potatoes, celery, or 

1 teaspoon salt asparagus make good soups. 

Stir flour into melted fat and mix with the cold milk. Add the 
cooked vegetable and stir over the fire until thickened. If soup 
is too thick, add a little water or milk. 

PEANUT SOUP 

XVz pints peanuts 1/2 cup celery 

3 quarts water 1 slice onion 
1 bay leaiE 1 quart xnilk 

Soak peanuts over night in 2 quarts of water; in the morning, 
drain, add remaining water, bay leaf, celery and onion; boil 
this slowly 4 or 5 hours, stirring frequently to prevent burning, 
or boil 15 minutes and place in fireless cooker over night. Rub 
through sieve and return to fire. When again hot add the milk 
and let soup boil up ; then season and serve. 



17 



MEAT SAVING 

Meat saving is to be accomplished in various ways : 

1. By doing without Pork, Beef, Mutton. 

2. By using meat less frequently — In "meatless days." 

3. By serving smaller portions. 

4. By using meat extenders, such as a dish of rice, tomatoes 

and a little meat. 

5. By using substitutes such as cheese, eggs, fish, game, 

poultry, dried beans and peas. 

MEAT EXTENDERS 

TAMALE PIE (Serves 6) 

2 cups commeal 1 pound Hamburger steak 

21/2 teaspoons salt 2 cups tomatoes 

6 cups boiling water 1/2 teaspoon Cayenne pepper, or 

1 onion 1 small chopped sweet pepper 

1 tablespoon fat 1 teaspoon salt 

Make a mush by stirring the cornmeal and IJ^ teaspoons salt 
into boiling water. Cook in a double boiler or over water for 45 
minutes. Brown the onion in the fat, add the Hamburger steak 
and stir until the red color disappears. Add the tomato, pepper 
and .salt. Grease a baking-dish, put in a layer of cornmeal mush, 
add the seasoned meat, and cover with mush. Bake 30 minutes. 

BEEF STEW 

1 pound beef 1 cup carrots cut up small 

4 potatoes cut in quarters 1 teaspoon salt 

1/4 peck green peas or 1 can 

Cut meat in small pieces and brown in the fat from the meat. 
Simmer in 2 quarts of water for 1 hour. Add the peas and car- 
rots and cook for Y2 hour, then add the potatoes. If canned peas 
are used, add them 10 minutes before serving. Serve when pota- 
toes are done. 

Variations 

1. The Meat. — This may be any kind and more or less than a 
pound may be used. Use the cheap cuts, the flank, rump, neck, 

18 



FOOD ECONOMY 



or brisket. The long, slow cooking makes them tender. Game 
and poultry are good. 

2. Potatoes and bariey may be used or bariey alone, or rice, 
hoaiiny, or macaroni. 

3. Vegetables. — Carrots, turnips, onions, peas, beans, cabbage, 
tomatoes are good, canned or fresh. Use one or more of these, as 
you wish. 

4. Parsley, celery tops, onion tops, seasoning herbs, or chopped 
sweet peppers add to the flavor. 

5. Many left-overs may be used — not only meat and vegetables, 
but rice or hominy. 



SUBSTITUTES 

FISH CHOWDER 

1 three-pound fish 1 quart sliced potatoes 

4 tablespoons drippings 3 cups hot milk 

1 medium onion, chopped fine 

"^ Skin and bone the fish, and cut into inch cubes. Cover the 
bone and trimmings with cold water and let simmer for J^ hour. 
Cook the onion in the fat for 5 minutes, then pour into a stew 
pan. 

Parboil the sliced potatoes for 5 minutes, then drain and add 
layers of fish and potatoes to the fat and onion in the stew pan. 
Season each layer with salt and pepper. 

Strain the liquor in which the fish bones have been cooking 
over all, and cook about 20 minutes until fish and potatoes are 
tender. Then add the scalded milk. If desired thicker, sprinkle 
a little cornmeal between each layer of fish and potatoes. 

BAKED SALT FISH 

2 cups salt fish (flaked) 2 eggs 

2 cups cold mashed potatoes 2 to 3 tablespoons of drippings 

1 pint ndlk 

- Soak the flaked fish in cold water over night or freshen the 
fish by boiling up several times in fresh water (usually 3 times is 
sufficient). Then simmer until tender. Drain off the water. 
Mix the potatoes with the milk, eggs, fat and seasoning. Add 
the fish, turn into a greased baking dish and bake y^ hour. 

10 



FOOD ECONOMY 



BROILED SALT MACKEREL 

Freshen the fish by soaking 10 to 12 hours with the skin side 
up. Change the water several times. Simmer until tender (15 
to 20 minutes) in water to which 1 teaspoon of vinegar, a bay 
leaf, a slice of onion and a sprig of parsley have been added. 
Drain, rub the fish with a little salt and margarine or other fat. 
Grease the hot broiler and lay the fish on it. Brown on both sides 
quickly. Garnish with slices of lemon and parsley. 

JELLIED FISH 

11/2 cups cold flaked fish 2 tablespoons lemon juice 

2 tablespoons chopped capers Vi teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon granulated gelatin 2 tablespoons cold water 
1 cup boiling water 

Mix the fish and capers. Arrange in a mold. Soak the gelatin 
in 2 tablespoons of cold water. Add the boiling water and stir 
until the gelatin dissolves, then add the lemon juice and salt. 
Pour this jelly carefully over the fish and set in a cool place to 
harden. Cut into portions and serve on lettuce with salad dress- 
ing. If desired, celery or hard-boiled eggs cut in slices may be 
added to the fish. 

RABBIT IN CASSEROLE 

1 rabbit 2 cups meat stock or thickened 

y^ cup drippings or other fat gravy 

1 cup hot water 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

Bit of bay leaf 

^ Dress the rabbit and separate into pieces at the joints. Season 
with paprika and salt. Cook in the fat until a golden brown. 
Transfer the meat to a casserole with 1 cup of hot water and cover. 
Bake in a moderate oven about Yi hour, then add the stock or 
gravy, lemon juice and bay leaf. Continue cooking in the oven 
about 3 hours. 

BAKED OATMEAL AND NUTS 

2 cups cooked oatmeal 1 teaspoon vinegar 
1 cup crushed peanuts Vi teaspoon pepper 
Vi cup milk 21/2 teaspoons salt 

Mix together and bake in a greased pan 15 minutes. This is 
enough for 5 people. 

20 



FOOD ECONOMY 



PEANUT LOAF 

1 cup roasted peanuts I egg 

2 cups bread crumbs 1/2 teaspoon salt 
14 cup melted fat i^ teaspoon pepper 
1/2 teaspoon onion juice Milk 

To the peanuts, bread crumbs, melted fat, beaten egg, onion 
juice, salt and pepper, add enough milk to make a moist loaf. 
Add more seasoning if desired. Put into a greased tin or mold, 
bake for 1 hour in a moderate oven, covering the first half of the 
time. Turn out on a hot dish, sprinkle with chopped peanuts and 
serve with brown sauce. 

BAKED SOY-BEANS 

1% cups yellow soy beans Vi teaspoon mustard 

Vi cup navy beans 1 small onion 

V5 cup sugar 14 pound salt pork 

Soak beans 12 hours, put in baking dish in which the salt pork, 
onion, sugar and mustard have been placed. Cover with cold 
water and cook in a slow oven at least 12 hours. 

LIMA BEAN ROAST 

1 pint dried lima beans 1 teaspoonful onion juice 

% pint peanuts 1 teaspoon salt 

1/2 pint stale bread crumbs Pepper 

Soak beans 12 hours. Cover with water and boil until tender. 

Press through colander. Put peanuts through meat grinder. 

Mix with bean pulp. 

BAKED HOMINY AND CHEESE 

1 tablespoon of oleomargarine or 2 tablespoons flour 

di'ippings 1 cup milk 

1 tablespoon cornstarch, or 2 cups cooked hominy 

1/2 teaspoon paprika V4 cup bread crumbs 

Vi to 1 cup cheese, grated or cut 1 teaspoon salt 

fine 

Make a sauce of the fat, cornstarch, salt and milk. _ Add the 
cheese and paprika to the sauce, arrange the hominy in baking 
dish and pour the sauce over it. Cover with crumbs and bake 
20 minutes in a moderate oven. 

The hommy and cheese may be arranged in layers and the 
white sauce poured over it if preferred. 

21 



FOOD ECONOMY 



COTTAGE CHEESE AND NUT LOAF 

1 cup cottage cheese Vi teaspoon pepper 

1 cup nut meats (use those lo- 2 tablespoons chopped onion 

cally grown) 1 tablespoon oleomargarine, 
1 cup stale bread crumbs meat drippings or vegetable 

Juice of 1/2 lemon oils 

1 teaspoon salt 

Mix the cheese, ground nuts, crumbs, lemon juice, salt and 
pepper. Cook the onion in the fat and a little water until tender. 
Add to the first mixture the onion and sufficient water or meat 
stock to moisten. Mix well, pour into a baking dish and brown 
in the oven. 

Variations 

Two cups of cooked oatmeal may be substituted for the cheese 
and the bread crumbs. 

One pound of beans, cooked and put through a sieve may be 
substituted for the nuts. 

American cheese, grated or cut fine, may be used in place of 
cottage cheese. 

The amount of liquid added will vary in each case. The sea- 
soning may be varied to suit the case. 

SAUCES 

Especial attention must be given to seasoning of dishes which 
have as their foundation beans, rice, or other foods having little 
flavor of their own. 

Use peppers, onions, garlic, leek, celery, catsup, Worcester- 
shire sauce, etc., for increasing flavor. Bean and nut loaves should 
be served with highly seasoned sauces. 

BROWN NUT SAUCE 

2 tablespoons drippings or vege- 11/2 cups meat or vegetable 

table oil stock or milk 

2 tablespoons peanut butter 1/2 teaspoon salt 

31/2 tablespoons flour Few grains pepper 

Brown the fat, add peanut butter and when well mixed add 
flour and continue browning. Pour in the stock gradually, stir- 
ring constantly. Bring to the boiling point and add salt and 
pepper. 

22 



FOOD ECONOMY 



ITALIAN TOMATO SAUCE 

2 cups cooked tomatoes 1/2 cup cut green peppers 

V2 cup finely cut onion 4 tablespoons butter substitute 

y^ cup grated or cut turnip or vegetable drippings 

Vz cup grated or cut carrot 2 tablespoons flour 

2 teaspoons salt 

Cook vegetables (except tomato) in the fat until tender. Add 
tomato and salt, cook 5 minutes. Put through strainer, return 
to fire, add flour mixed with 2 tablespoons cold water, boil 5 
minutes. 



PIMENTO SAUCE 

Force canned pimento through a strainer. Add 3^ cup of this 
puree to 1 cup of white sauce. 

FAT SAVING 

We use twice as much fat as some of our Allies. The amount 
used here should be not more than % pound per person per week 
and 6 ounces for children under ten. 

Use butter as sparingly as possible on the table, except for 
children. 

Do not use it in cooking. 

Peanut butter, jellies, or a nut and fig paste are excellent 
substitutes. 

Use little pastry. 

When you do make pies, use one crust instead of two. 

Try the New England deep apple pie, with only a top crust. 

If vegetable oils are used, the quantity of fat may be reduced 
by one-third; that is, 2^ tablespoons of oil to one cup 
of flour is sufficient. The oil itself helps to moisten the 
flour so that very little water is necessary. The dough 
should be made as dry as possible to make a tender pastry. 

Do not fry in deep fat. 

Bake croquettes in the oven. 

Make meat-loaf instead of meat croquettes. 

Either do not use recipes calling for a large quantity of fat 
or try reducing the amount. 

23 



FOOD ECONOMY 



RECIPES FOR CONSERVATION PIE CRUSTS 

CORNMEAL CRUST 

Grease a pie plate well. Cover with raw cornmeal, giving the 
plate a rotating motion so that an even layer of the meal will 
stick to the plate about ys of an inch in thickness Fill the 
plate with pumpkin pie mixture. Bake in a hot oven. 

OATMEAL CRUST 

2 cups finely ground oatmeal 1 teaspoon fat 

1 cup boiling water 

Scald the oatmeal with the water. Add fat and mix thoroughly. 
Roll very thin and line small pie or tart tins with the mixture. 
Bake in a hot oven. Fill with apricot marmalade or other thick 
mixture. If desired, spread a meringue on top and brown in the 
oven. 

SUGAR SAVING 

Because of the present shortage of sugar it is necessary for each 

person to reduce his consumption of sugar to % pound per week. 

There are so many sweet foods that may be used in place of sugar 

that this should be no hardship. 

Cut out candy. 

Try cooking breakfast cereals with chopped figs, dates or 

raisins. You will not need to add any sugar at the table. 
Use molasses, honey, corn or other syrups for sweetening. 
Use fresh fruits for desserts in place of rich pastries and sweet 

puddings. 
Bake apples or pears with a little water for several hours 
until a rich syrup forms. If more sweetening is desired 
add a little honey or molasses. 
Stew dried prunes in the water in which they were soaked 
until the liquid is almost all boiled away. If more juice 
is wanted add water to the syrup. The long, slow cooking 
is necessary to develop a rich flavor. 
Cut down the use of cake. 

Do not use frosting unless you can make it without sugar. 
Either honey or maple syrup can be substituted for sugar 
in a boiled frosting. 

24 



FOOD ECONOMY 



When cake is made it should be not only wheat-saving, but 
sugar-saving and fat-saving. Try making cakes in which 
cornmeal, corn flour, rye flour, potato flour, rice flour or 
cornstarch is substituted for part of the wheat flour. Use 
corn syrup, molasses, honey and other syrups for part or 
all of the sugar. 

A good working rule in making such substitution is to use 1 
cup of syrup as equivalent to 1 cup of sugar and J^ cup of 
liquid. Corn syrup does not sweeten as much as molasses 
or honey. 

RECIPES FOR CONSERVATION SWEETS 

WAR CAKE 

1 cup molasses 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

1 cup com syrup V2 teaspoon cloves 

11/2 cups water V2 teaspoon nutmeg 

1 package raisins 2 cups flour 

2 tablespoons fat 1/2 teaspoon soda 

1 teaspoon salt 2 teaspoons baking powder 

Boil together for 5 minutes the first nine ingredients. Cool, 
add the sifted dry ingredients and bake in two loaves for 45 min- 
utes in a moderate oven. 

This cake should be kept several days before using. It makes 
about 20 to 25 servings. 

If desired, 1 cup of oatmeal may be used in place of J^ cup of 
flour. 

OATMEAL MACAROONS 

1 tablespoon fat IVz cups oatmeal 

1 cup com syrup Vi teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons sugar 1/2 teaspoon baking powder 

1 egg iVi tablespoons flour 

2 teaspoons almond extract if 

desired 

Combine the melted fat and the sugar and syrup, add the 
beaten egg and stir in the other ingredients Drop from a tea- 
spoon on greased baking sheets or pans and bake in a moderate 
oven about 15 minutes. This makes 25 to 28 cookies about 2 
inches in diameter 

25 



FOOD ECONOMY 



SPONGE CAKE WITHOUT WHEAT 

4 eggs I tablespoon lemon juice 

1 cup sugar Vs teaspoon salt 

1 cup barley flour 

Separate the whites and yolks of eggs, beat yolks, add lemon 
juice and sugar, then flour. Fold in well-beaten whites of eggs 
and bake in slow oven. 

CORNMEAL COOKIES 

1/2 cup melted fat 6 tablespoons sour milk 

1/2 cup molasses 1/2 teaspoon soda 

V2 cup corn syrup 2 cups cornmeal 

1 egg 1 cup wheat flour 

Combine the melted fat, molasses, syrup, beaten egg and milk. 
Sift the dry ingredients and combine with the liquid. Drop from a 
teaspoon onto a greased pan and bake in a moderate oven for 15 
minutes. This makes 55 to 60 cookies about 2 inches in diameter. 

CORNMEAL GINGERBREAD 

1 cup cornmeal 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

1 cup wheat flour V2 teaspoon cloves 

1 teaspoon soda 1 cup sour milk 
3/4 teaspoon salt 1 cup molasses 

2 teaspoons ginger 2 tablespoons shortening 
1 egg (omitted if desired) 

Sift together the dry ingredients. Combine the milk, molasses, 
melted shortening and beaten egg. Add the liquid ingredients to 
the dry. Stir well. Bake in moderate oven. 

Two cups of buckwheat flour may be substituted for the corn- 
meal and flour in the above recipe. This will have the charac- 
teristic flavor of buckwheat. If it is too strong use only 1 cup of 
buckwheat and 1}/$ cups of white flour. Two and a half cups of 
rye flour may also be substituted. In using rye and white flour a 
larger quantity is necessary because these flours absorb less liquid 
than do the cornmeal and buckwheat. ,> 



26 



FOOD ECONOMY 



PUDDINGS 

OATMEAL PUDDING 

Try one when you have a light dinner or supper 

Oatmeal Betty or Brown Pudding 

2 cups cooked oatmeal V^ teaspoon cinnamon 

4 apples cut up small 2 cups cooked oatmeal 

1/2 cup raisins 1/2 cup molasses 

Vi cup sugar 1/2 cup raisins 

Mix and bake for Yi hour. Serve hot or cold. Any dried or 
fresh fruits, dates, or ground peanuts may be used instead of 
apples. Either will serve 5 people. 

BAKED HONEY CUSTARD 

2 cups milk Vs teaspoon powdered cinnamon 

3 eggs V4 teaspoon salt 
V4 cup honey 

Scald milk, beat eggs slightly. Add honey, milk, cinnamon and 
salt. Bake in custard cups set in a pan of water. 

DATE PUDDING 

3 tablespoons fat V4 teaspoon nutmeg 

1 cup molasses 14 teaspoon allspice 

cup sweet milk V4 teaspoon cloves 

'/2 cups flour 1/2 pound dates 

teaspoon salt 

Stone and chop the dates, melt the fat, add to it the molasses 
and milk. Mix and sift dry ingredients and add to liquid. Add 
dates last of all. Steam XYi hours. 



1% 

V4< 



WAR-TIME CANDIES 

CHOCOLATE DAINTIES 

Put through the meat chopper Yi cup each of dates, figs, and 
nut meats. Add 1 tablespoon orange juice, a little grated orange 
peel, and 1 square of melted unsweetened chocolate. Mold into 
balls and roll in chopped nuts or granulated sugar. This mixture 
may be packed in an oiled tin, put under a weight until firm, then 
cut in any shape desired. 

27 



FOOD ECONOMY 



OLD-FASHIONED MOLASSES CANDY 

2 cups (1 pint) molasses V2 level teaspoon baking powder 

1 tablespoon vinegar 1 teaspoon vanilla or ginger 

2 tablespoons (1 ounce) butter extract 

substitute 

Put molasses, vinegar and butter into a saucepan. Bring to a 
boiling point, and boil, stirring all the time until the mixture is 
brittle when dropped into cold water. Stir in baking powder and 
extract and pour into a buttered tin. When nearly cold pull 
until glossy. Cut into small pieces and lay on a buttered plate 
or wrap in waxed paper. Sufficient for 1 pound of candy. 

POP-CORN CANDY 

1 cup syrup 2 or 3 quarts of popped com 

1 teaspoon vinegar 

Boil together the syrup and vinegar until syrup hardens when 
dropped in cold water. Pour over freshly popped corn and mold 
into balls or fancy shapes for the Christmas tree. Little pop- 
corn men will please the children. Mark in the features and 
outlines with melted chocolate. 

Either honey, maple syrup, molasses, white cane syrup or corn 
syrup may be used. 

CRYSTALLIZED FRUITS 

Use your own preserves. Peach, pear, apple, quince or water- 
melon rind will do. Drain from the fruit all syrup possible. Cut 
any size desired, sprinkle with sugar, and dry in the warmer or a 
very slow oven. It may be necessary to sprinkle the fruit again 
with sugar during the drying. When dry enough not to be at all 
sticky, sprinkle with sugar and pack in layers with wax papers 
between. This fruit, as well as dates and citron, may be used 
for dipping in bitter chocolate for bitter-sweets. 



2S 



FOOD ECONOMY 



Table of Weights and Measures 



Materiai, 
Apricots 






Weight 
1 lb. 


Mbasttbk 
75 pieces 


Bananas 






1 ft. 


3 large 


Beans, Navy 






1 ft. 


21/3 cups 


Beans, canned 










String No. 2 






1 lb. 2 oz. 


^V^.]'-^ 


Lima No. 2 






1 ft. 4 oz. 


Bread 










Graham 






12 oz. 


12 J^-in. slices 


Rye, Ward's 






1 ft. 


21 3^-in. slices 


White, Ward's 






1 ft. 2 oz. 


16 3^-in. slices 


Whole wheat. Ward's 


1 ft. 4 oz. 


15 3^-in. slices 


Butter 






1 ft. 


48 squares 


Milk, condensed 






6 oz. 
16 oz. 


2/3 cup 
IJ cups 


Molasses No. 2}^ 






2 fts. 6 oz. 


i% cups 


Pineapple 










No. 1 flat 






9 oz. 


5 slices 


No. 2 tall 






1 ft. 3 oz. 


10 slices 


Prunes 










Small 






1 ft. 


40 prunes 


Large 






1 ft. 


28-30 prunes 


Tapioca 










Instant 






10 oz. 


If cups 


Minute 






10 oz. 


I7 cups 


Pearl 






I ft. 


H cups 




1 


ounce 


of sugar measures 2 level tablespoons. 




V3 


ounce 


of butter measures 2 level 


teaspoons. 




2 


ounces of flour measures ]/2 cup. 





29 



BALANCED RATION 

The most important consideration in planmng the daily menu is that 
there may be the right quantity of tissue-forming foods (protein) and suflS- 
cient fuel value. See tables on pages 482-4. Dietary studies have resulted 
in the following tentative standards: 





Nutrients. 




Character of work to be performed. 


Protein. 


Fat. 


Carbohy- 
drates. 


value. 


European : 

Man at moderate work 


Pouud. 

0.26 

.32 

.20 

.22 

.25 
,28 
.39 


Pound 

0.12 

.22 


Pounds. 

1.10 

.99 


Calories. 
2,695 
3,270 

2,450 

2,700 


Man at hard work 


American: 

Man without muscular work 


Man with light muscular (sedentary) 
work 






Mbu with light to moderate muscu- 
lar work 






3,050 
3,400 


Man with moderate muscular work 






Man with very hard muscular work 






5,500 











FACTORS USED IN CALCULATING MEALS 

Man at hard muscular work requires 1.2 the food of a man at mod- 
erately active muscular work. 

Man with light muscular work and boy 15-16 years old require 0.9 the 
food of a man at moderately active muscular work. 

Man at sedentary occupation, woman at moderately active work, boy 
13-14, and girl 15-16 years old require 0.8 the food of a man at moderately 
active muscular work. 

Woman at light work, boy 12, and girl 13-14 years old require 0.7 the 
food of a man at moderately active muscular work. 

Boy 10-11 and girl 10-12 years old require 0.6 the food of a man at mod- 
erately active muscular work. 

Child 6-9 years old requires 0.5 the food of a man at moderately active 
muscular work. 

ChUd 2-5 years old requires 0.4 the food of a man at moderately active 
muscular work. 

Child imder 2 years old requires 0.3 the food of a man at moderately 
active muscular work. 



r»fit 






^^lf#1 



1 I "(i -«J *'^ 



t^;'-^--' |- 






> ,!M' 






+ * 



- #1:1 



i - 






I -im^t^^i t 






, T 



1 --- ^ I 






» »-l 1 

^ t ■" - 'r 



r-1 






L 









' f ' t ' '- i t-' 



- + 
f 1 



li^ljl-S. I 



r-.'. 



,|= 



ItC 4^J * - . 



■■ 1' 



I iM r 



t 



IIEllr.iS 






t3.:.SS '.«E1-.: 



1. il*.tt«#il* '■=tl-'- J4fi*-?«-kr-4.-» i-1 



