- - . --. : :":: ' :":': 

Ol 




Jfirst 




ffafy 



1940 



ut ntemartam 



^Hamilton (iarann 



of "Qloroitto 
1921 to 1939 



Department of ^Sea 
far 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS; 
THEIR CARE AND CURE 

AND 
THE GENERAL MANAGEMENT OF THE BODY 



H 

THE HEART AND 
BLOOD-VESSELS; 

THEIR CARE AND CURE 

AND 

THE GENERAL- MANAGEMENT 
OF THE BODY 



I. H. HIRSCHFELD, M, D 



FIFTH EDITION 




FUNK y WAGNALLS COMPANY 
NEW YORK AND LONDON 



COPYRIGHT, 1913, BY 
I. H. HIRSCHFELD, M.D. 

WTNNETKA, ILL. 

(Printed in the United States of America) 
Published, June, 1913 



CONTENTS 



CHAPTER PAGH 

I THE FOLLY OF IGNORANCE 13 

II THE STORY OF THE HEART 19 

1. Its tremendous task. Pit for 100 years. 

2. A pump made of muscle and valves. 

3. The interior arrangement. 

4. Heart-beat and pulse and the strength 

kept in reserve. 

5. The size of the normal heart. 

(a) The enlarged (hypertrophic) heart. 
(6) The stretched (dilated) heart. 

6. Structure of the heart-muscle and its in- 

side (endocard) and outside (pericard) 
covering. 

7. The blood-vessels of the heart and first 

mention of the rich man's plague (angi- 
na pectoris). 

8. The motors of the heart. 

9. The regulation of the motors. 

10. The arteries and why they should not be- 

come hardened (arteriosclerosis). 

11. The heart is as good as its muscle, not- 

withstanding valve defects. 

Ill THE SICK HEART 35 

1. Wrongly built (congenital). 
Of poor material (inherited). 

2. Heart-diseases which follow: 

(a) Diphtheria motor-nerves. 

(6) Eheumatism valvular heart trouble, 
endocarditis, pericarditis. 

(c) Syphilis endarteritis, aortic valve and 
muscular heart trouble (angina pec- 
toris, aneurisms, arteriosclerosis). 



CONTENTS 

CHAPTER PAGE 

3. Disturbances arising when the blood does 
not receive its proper constituents: 
(a) From the thyroid gland (Grave's 



(&) From the suprarenal glands (Addi- 

son's disease). 

(c) About puberty, menopause, man's 

critical age (genus and genius). 

(d) Generally impoverished or overfed 

blood (arteriosclerosis). 

4. Harm done by over-doing and underdoing. 

5. The tremendous influence of the mind on 

heart and blood-vessels (presclerosis, 
arteriosclerosis, premature old age). 

IV THE PHYSICIAN'S EXAMINATION AND WORK- 
SHOP 59 

1. Wny the heart must be examined in every 

disease. 

2. The distinction between a nervous (func- 

tional) and organically sick heart. 

3. Methods of examination: 

(a) Percussion. 

(ft) Eoentgen (X) Bays. 

(c) Auscultation. 

(d) Pulse-feeling and pulse- writing. 

(e) Blood-pressure and measuring appar- 

atus. 
( / ) Electrocardiograph. 

4. How to find the real worth and working 

ability of the heart, irrespective of ita 
anatomic structure. 

V PREVENTION - 73 

How CAN I PROTECT MY OWN AND MY CHIL- 
DREN 's HEALTH? 
1. The Commonwealth : 

(a) The best education is the best preven- 
tion. 

(&) Medical school-inspection. 
(c) Health departments and research in- 
stitutions. 

vi 



CONTENTS 

(d) Sanitary legislation. 

(e) Welfare legislation. 

(f) The stamping out of city-grown hot- 

beds for crime, infant mortality, 
and tuberculosis. 
2. The Individual: 

The constitution of man limits the freedom 
of the individual. 



VI FOOD 85 

WHAT KIND DOES OUR BODY NEED? 

1. Proof that we spend each year hundreds of 

millions of dollars for wrong food and 
many millions more to rid ourselves of it 
and its consequences. 

2. Food must be appetizing and taken in con- 

genial company to do the most good. 

3. What food is expected to do for our body, 

and what is furnished to the body by: 
(a) Starchy food (carbohydrates, like po- 
tatoes, rice, cereals, etc.). 
(6) Fats (butter, bacon, cream, etc.). 

(c) Proteids (meat, eggs, cheese, etc.). 

Injury done and diseases produced 
by too much proteid foods. 

(d) Mineral salts. 

4. Exceptions to each rule. 

How MUCH, WHAT, AND WHEN TO EAT: 

1. The amount depends to some extent on the 

individual's vitality and manner of living. 

2. The test whether our food is right is ef- 

ficiency and length of life. 

3. The proper food for babies and adolescents. 

4. How to figure out the amount necessary to 

keep the body at its best. 

5. Misleading appetite. 

6. The benefit derived from food is modified by 

our habits, exercise, chewing, etc. 

7. Meal time and the time to be allowed for 

each meal. 

8. About coffee, tea, alcohol, tobacco, etc. 

vii 



CONTENTS 

CHAPTER PAGE 

Too FAT? Too THIN? 

CONSTIPATION: CURED WITHOUT MEDICINE OR 
MEDICAL TREATMENT. 

VII AIR, CLIMATE AND HOME 131 

1. The relationship of air and light to the body. 

2. The influence of climate on man 's efficiency. 

(a) The altitude. 

(fc) Humidity and electricity. 

(c) Temperature; equable and changeable. 

(d) Wind. 

(e) Dust. 

3. Indoor and out-of-door work. 

4. The home, its location, general arrangement j 

the necessity of congeniality. 

VIII THE INSEPARABLY INTERDEPENDENT TRINITY 

OF WORK, REST AND SLEEP - 145 

HYGIENE OF WORK: 

1. A necessity for health. 

2. The cause of fatigue when out of proportion 

to the work done. 

3. Proper division of time between work and 

rest. 

4. The influence of over-ambition, or unwilling- 

ness, on the quality of work. 

5. The cause of mediocre work. 

6. The advantage of farm and ranch work and 

how to overcome the objections thereto. 

HYGIENE OP EECREATION: 

1. The effect of dancing and music. 

HYGIENE OF EXERCISE : 

1. The distinction between exercise and over- 

exercise. 

2. The advantage of interesting exercise and 

team-work. 

3. Exercise for children and the teacher's re- 

sponsibility. 

4. Exercise for people over forty-five. 



CONTENTS 

:APTEK PAGE 

5. Walking (sadly neglected), riding, swim- 

ming, gardening, etc. 

6. The advantage of the Muller and similar 

systems. 

7. Exercise when the heart is sick. 

SLEEP : 

1. Distinction between the sleep of the con- 

scious and the sub-conscious self. 

2. What is the proof of sufficient sleep? 

3. The average length of sleep. 

SLEEPLESSNESS : 

1. Causes. 

2. Cures. 

IX SEXUAL LIFE - - - 181 

1. Victims of the conflict between the normal 

instinct, economic conditions and Christian 
civilization. 

2. Sexual individuality. 

3. Causes of prostitution. 

4. The sexual question an educational question. 

5. Motherhood an integral part of woman '& life. 

6. Education for marriage. 

7. The modern aspect of sexual diseases and of 

more nearly equal rights for the sexes as 
now less differentiated. 

X THE SKIN A& A PROTECTOR - - - - 195 

1. Some important functions of the skin. 

2. Air baths harden, strengthen and make quiet 

the skin. 

3. Lukewarm water baths cleansing, quieting 

and anti-constipating. 

4. Cold baths and by whom they may be taken. 

5. The effect of ocean baths of different dura- 

tion. 

6. Sweat baths. 

7. Hot and cold applications. 

8. The heart-heal (Nauheim) baths. 

9. Packs, together with a restricted diet, give 

a new lease of life. 



CONTENTS 

CHAPTER PAGE 

XI MIND 215 

THE GROWING OF A SOUND MIND : 

1. Distinction between sanity, nervousness, and 

insanity. 

2. The importance of early character training. 

3. Education in self-control; self -inhibition 

and self -consciousness as a fault. 

4. Education in concentration. 

5. Training in " doing/' as opposed to " in- 

tending. ' ' 

6. The individuality unchangeable in later life. 

7. The heavy burden of the American school- 

teacher. 

THE ONLY CURE FOR NERVOUSNESS : 

1. Offered by obedience to nature's six de- 

mands : 

First demand: time (patience). 

Second demand: obedience to the law of 
evolution ( self -improvement ) . 

Third demand : a normal sexual life, or its 
proper equivalent. 

Fourth demand: obedience to the gregari- 
ous (social) instinct. 

Fifth demand : food the body is built for. 

Sixth demand: due consideration for skin 
and muscles. 

2. Aids in following the above demands. 

THE THREE GREAT NERVOUS FEARS : 

1. Fear of other people's opinion. How to 

judge one 's self. 

2. Fear of insanity, sickness, and death. 

3. Fear of poverty. How poverty can be pre- 

vented or overcome. 

RECAPITULATION - - - - - 255 



CONTENTS 

CHAPTEB PAGE 

XII CARE AND CURE ------- 259 

How TO SUCCESSFULLY ADJUST LIFE TO A DE- 
FECTIVE HEART: 

1. Habits arid environments. 

(a) Work and rest. 
(6) Friends and family. 

(c) Food, liquor, tobacco, coffee, etc. 

(d) Bowels. 

(e) Sleep. 

(/) Exercise, vacation, climate, dress, and 

home. 

(#) The choice of an occupation. 
(/&) Periodical medical examination. 

2. Treatment for a sick heart as long as the 

patient is able to walk and talk without 
discomfort for at least five minutes: 
(a) Nauheim baths. 
(Z>) Electric (high frequency and other) 

currents. 
(c) Massage, etc. 

3. Medicines which may help the heart and 

blood-vessels at any stage of sickness: 
(a) Digitalis, Strophantus, Spartein, etc. 
(6) Caffein, Amylnitrit, Nitroglycerin, 

Morphin, etc. 
(c) Adrenalin, etc. 

4. Benefits to be derived from: 

(a) Stimulants (strychnin, camphor, etc.) 
(6) Sedatives (bromids). 

(c) To din. 

(d) Pressure on nerves and blood-vessels. 

5. High blood-pressure and arteriosclerosis. 

6. Aneurism, varicose veins, hemorrhoids. 

7. Nervous blood-vessels (angioneurosis). 

8. The treatment of the nervous heart. 



CONTENTS 

CHAPTER PAGE 

XIII FACTS TO BE CONSIDERED IN THE CHOICE OF 
PHYSICIANS,, NURSES, HOSPITALS, AND VA- 
CATION TRIPS 287 

PHYSICIANS : 

1. The personality often a greater factor than 

the school of medicine from which the 
physician graduated. 

2. Qualifications of a good physician. 

3. The choice of a specialist. 

4. Our medical schools and the protected home 

talent. 

5. A case from life, illustrating errors of judg- 

ment such as happen daily. 

NURSES : 

1. As friends in need and necessary evils. 

HOSPITALS : 

1. Maternities. 

2. Sanatoriums. 

3. Asylums. 

4. Homes for defective children. 
VACATIONS : 

1. Why advisable and where to be spent. 

2. In America. 

3. In Europe. 

(a) Watering places, 
(fc) Entire change. 

(c) Time, distance, and perspective change 
the aspect of one's trouble. 

4. Very sick and deprest people should not 

travel. 

XIV FINAL CONCLUSIONS 327 

THE OBJECT OF MAN'S LIFE is SELF-PERFEC- 
TION. 
A biological truth and a good working ideal. 

xii 



I 

THE FOLLY OF IGNORANCE 



13 



THE FOLLY OF IGNORANCE 

"The Report on National Vitality, its Waste 
and Conservation, for the National Conservation 
Commission in 1909, " states that three million peo- 
ple are sick every day in the United States, and 
that half of them suffer from preventable diseases. 
This number is increased by at least two millions 
when we include the mentally defective criminal 
and the partially disabled neurasthenic. 

If it is true that God made man after his image, 
then we must have changed the likeness when we 
are subject to so much misery. If we consider 
the white man as the highest type in evolution, then 
he represents a product of environment and an ad- 
justment to this earth. One must fit the other and 
sickness should be something entirely out of the ordi- 
nary and not an every-day occurrence. 

The reason so many people are sick lies in our 
wrong manner of living; we have forgotten that 
the laws of nature can not be broken with impunity 
by the laws and actions of man. 

The human body has been constituted in a certain 
way and can not remain fit for the duties and 
pleasures of life if brought under conditions for 
which it was not fitted by nature. "We are free to 

15 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

follow nature's lead, use its principles and forces, to 
fly, to apply steam and electricity, to irrigate the 
soil, etc., etc., but we can not keep our bodies sound 
with, a kind of food or air for which its organs were 
not built and without the nature-made rhythm of 
work, play, rest, and relation to the other sex. 

Few people know for certain what the needs of 
their mind and body are. 

When reason was given to man, he lost in ex- 
change that part of his instinct which led him to 
lead his natural life and, in the possible choice of 
many ways, the right ones were not found by science 
until recently, after superstition and ignorance had 
marked entirely wrong tracks for centuries. 

Ignorance may be bliss when one is incurably 
sick; it must be fought when timely knowledge will 
protect us against injury and that fatal sequel "too 
late." 

This book represents, in this battle, the share of a 
man who was confronted daily, for thirty years, with 
tears of children, grief of parents, and all kinds of 
misery gone beyond human relief, most of which 
could have been easily avoided by timely understand- 
ing of the body's normal requirements. 

There is no reason why a sound-minded person 
should be annoyed by the study of the nature of 
man. He should rather delight in it. The body 
and its action are more wonderful than the finest 

16 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

man-made machinery; they are helped by every- 
thing which increases the joy of living and injured 
only by what is against our true interest. Such in- 
formation certainly offers most encouraging reading, 
and no novel possesses more material for a fascinat- 
ing story. 

We chose as an illustration and inducement to 
make the reader more generally interested in the 
wonders of his body, a special subject: the heart 
and blood-vessels. These are to-day the organs which 
most frequently wear out first and cause death 
and invalidity of many of the best men in the 
community at an age when they should be enjoying 
the fruits of their life-work. The statistics of 
Chicago and of all the large cities of America and 
Europe show an approximate increase in the death- 
rate from heart diseases during the last forty years of 
from 5.4 to 12.06; of chronic Bright 's disease, which 
is practically a disease of the blood-vessels, from 8.86 
to 9.61. If we add the increased death-rate from 
an exhausted heart during acute sickness or opera- 
tions, we find that to-day ten times more people die 
from diseases of the heart and blood-vessels than in 
1871. 

Should this book reach some one after it is too 
late for prevention and the body is already sick, he 
may follow the principles laid down with the assur- 
ance that his joy of living will become greater and 
his sufferings less. Nature has the power and the 

17 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

will to compensate for sickness and weakness in one 
organ by strengthening and rearranging its help- 
mates. We know to-day that the deciding factors 
are the power of life, vitality, and nervous energy, 
not the structure or the anatomic condition. In 
spite of hardened blood-vessels and a heart with 
defective valves, an efficient and happy life is possi- 
ble if properly adjusted to the state of health. 

The care and cure of the heart is possible only 
when all other organs normally cooperate and this 
always-to-be-remembered fact makes it necessary to 
discuss in this book the correct management of the 
whole body. 

The official health departments defend us against 
many diseases, but they can not possibly protect 
each individual against sickness arising from his 
own mistakes; and legislated high wages and leisure 
time ill spent make the world neither better nor 
happier. 

The health question is the same as the social ques- 
tion an educational one. It is astonishingly easy 
to avoid unhappiness, premature death, and sickness 
without sacrifice of time, pleasure, or money, when 
one knows how, early enough in life. This book is 
intended as a guide which shall help the healthy 
to remain well, the sick to become sound, the de- 
spondent to be brave, the perplexed to understand, 
and parents to cultivate in their children habits 
which guarantee an efficient, happy, and long life. 

18 



II 



THE STORY OF THE HEART 

1. Its tremendous task. Fit for 100 years. 

2. A pump made of muscle and valves. 

3. The interior arrangement. 

4. Heart-beat and pulse and the strength kept in reserve. 

5. The size of the normal heart. 

(a) Enlarged (hyperthrophic) heart. 
(Z>) Stretched (dilated) heart. 

6. Structure of the heart-muscle and its inside (endocard) 

and outside (pericard) covering. 

7. The blood-vessels of the heart and first mention of the 

rich man's plague (angina pectoris). 

8. The motors of the heart. 

9. The regulation of the motors. 

10. The arteries and why they should not become hardened 

(arteriosclerosis) . 

11. The heart as good as its muscle, notwithstanding valve 

defects. 



19 



II 



THE STORY OF THE HEART 

Our body is built of millions and millions of single 
cells, just as a house is built of many single stones, 
these cells being alive as long as the blood brings 
them their food for the production of vital energy. 
The blood must be kept circulating all the time and 
the moving power of the circulation is the heart. 

From the first to the last of life the heart must 
keep on working. A stop of ten seconds meana 
danger, of ten minutes, death. It moves in each 
hour, on an average, seven hundred and thirty 
quarts of blood, the six to eight pounds that our 
body contains returning often enough to amount to 
such a great figure. It produces each hour power 
sufficient to lift 1,500 pounds three and a half feet 
high. If we imagine ourselves holding an eight 
pound dumbbell and bending the arm seventy times 
a minute day and night, summer and winter, con- 
tinually, for one, two, three, four, ten, twenty, forty, 
fifty, or more, years without stopping, we get an ap- 
proximate idea of what a wonderful piece of machin- 
ery the heart is. Its achievement is almost beyond 
human conception, for, by counting the number of 

21 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

heart-beats, eighty for each minute, we find there are 
2,102,400,000 beats in fifty years, which is more 
than the human mind can appreciate. 

At birth every heart is fit and ready for such a 
tremendous task, and except in the very few cases 
where people are born with a defective organ, there 
is no earthly reason why practically every one 
should not retain the heart in perfect working order 
until, having enjoyed a long life, they should be 
glad to part from this world in the same willing 
spirit as they would leave the dining-hall, after an 
altogether satisfactory meal, to join friends who have 
preceded them to another room. 

On the contrary, just at present no organ oftener 
disturbs the efficiency and joy of living at the 
prime of life than the heart, for while it practically 
does not need any special care, we have acquired 
many little otherwise unessential habits which pre- 
maturely wear it out, just as a few grains of sand 
destroy, in time, a powerful steam engine. The 
youthful elastic body does not feel the effect of slight 
injuries, but later, unexpectedly, the result is made 
apparent around the fiftieth year, when the worn-out 
heart stops the way to life's further satisfactory 
progress, and the same mischief is often done earlier 
by preventable chronic or acute diseases. 

We possess a safe protection against such emer- 
gencies, which, fortunately, is so easy that we gain 
immunity almost the instant we thoroughly under- 
stand the most important facts regarding the anato- 

22 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

my and action of the heart and its relationship to 
the rest of the body. This same knowledge shows 
at once the most satisfactory compromise to be made 
between our ambition and the limitations imposed by 
a heart already damaged beyond repair. 

Blind trust in providence and fatalism previously 
made it look like a loss of time to learn anything 
about one's body, as it seemed to be in the absolute 
and exclusive care of the power above. To-day we 
suspect, from the increased length of life which re- 
sults from a hygienic manner of living, that the 
powers above do not mean to fix a narrow limit to 
man's earthly existence and that they really mean 
to put part of our destiny into our own hands. 
The reader, therefore, will find it to his own inter- 
est to concentrate his thoughts on the next few 
pages of descriptive matter, after which the rest of 
the book will be easy reading. 

The function of the heart consists, first, in bring- 
ing the blood with fresh food to each cell, and then The Heart 
in taking it back with the waste and a load of new 
provisions for the next turn. Every engineer would 
recommend for such work a pressure- and suction- 
pump, and the heart practically is a pump made of a 
piece of flesh (muscle), conical in form, of reddish- 
brown color, with inside cavities. The pumping is 
done when the muscle contracts itself; then the 
cavities inside are closed and the contents pressed 
out; when, after part of a second, the muscle relaxes, 

23 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

the walls draw apart and blood is drawn into the 
opened cavities. The arrangement is practically the 
same as that of the little rubber ball children play 
with ; by pressing the ball any liquid inside is squirted 
out. By opening the hand the walls separate and 
any liquid with which its opening is brought in con- 
tact is drawn into the ball. The pressing and open- 
ing hand takes the place of the muscle of the heart. 
As the blood runs in and out of the heart in dif- 
ferent places, a system of automatic valves necessarily; 
had to be provided, which, opening and closing 
alternately, force the current to run in the proper 
direction. 

In lower animals there exists only one cavity in- 
side of the heart-muscle, just as in a child's rubber 
ball. In man and higher animals the cavity is 
divided into two divisions, for the following reasons: 

To produce the essential heat and strength for the 
body, each of its millions of cells is arranged to act 
as a furnace. And, like a furnace, each cell needs 
for its work fuel (food), oxygen from the air and, 
besides, a provision for getting rid of waste gases 
(carbonic acid gas). 

The fuel for the cells is taken from the intestines 
by the blood on its return to the heart from all over 
the system with the waste gases. There is no use 
of sending to the cells such a mixture, which, tho 
it contains food, also contains waste gases and far 
too short a supply of oxygen. First the waste has 

24 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

to be gotten rid of and plenty of oxygen taken in, 
to make the mixture food fit for consumption by 
the cells. For this purpose the cavity inside the 
heart is divided into two divisions. The blood which 
returns from the body and intestines enters first the 
right one, to be pumped for purification to the lungs 
and charged with oxygen; then only, after it has 
become fuel fit to be used by the cells, does it flow 
into the left strong muscle division of the heart, 
which drives it all through the system. It is but 
natural that the main pumping-stations (ventricles) 
should be provided with waiting-rooms ( auricles) 1 , 
where the blood waits until the former are through 
with the previous load. 

To recapitulate: The heart is divided into a right 
and left division, each division again subdivided 
into a waiting-room (auricle) and a main pumping- 
station (ventricle). The openings are provided with 
valves to keep the blood-stream running in the 
proper direction. All vessels through which the blood 
runs away from the heart are called arteries, all 
through which it returns are called veins, both of which 
grow, by successive division into smaller branches, 
finally so thin that they are parted from the sur- 
rounding tissue only by a very tiny, fine membrane 
through which exchange of fresh food and oxygen 
for and waste from the cells easily takes place. 

With every stroke or contraction of the heart 
(systole) a little spot just under and inside of the 

25 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

Heart-beat nipple of the left breast is quickly lifted. This is 
and Pulse ^ Q heart-beat, the number of which is more con- 
veniently counted by taking hold of the pulse, 
which represents the little kick given to the arteries 
each time a heart-beat pumps a new wave of blood 
into the circuit. The average number of heart-beats 
in one minute for the adult is 75; for the new-born 
120; until the fourth year 100 and from then on 
until the fourteenth around 80. Some perfectly 
healthy people have only 40 and others always over 
90, peculiarities frequently found in members of the 
same family. 

The cells need more fuel and oxygen for com- 
bustion when the body is at work. The heart can 
get and deliver a bigger supply of either, not only 
by faster beating, but by pumping with heavier 
strokes, when each time a greater quantity of blood 
is moved through the lungs and body. For any 
ordinary effort, such as common work, a sound heart 
does not change the number of its beats, as the 
muscle possesses reserve strength enough to make 
each contraction more telling; the more rapid gait 
is accepted only when stronger pumping alone 
becomes insufficient, which should not happen except 
when something out of the ordinary is done, for in- 
stance, running, or other unusually heavy work. A 
heart which must immediately beat faster to sup- 
ply the demands for an ordinary walk or talk is 
lacking in reserve strength, which is an indication 

26 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

that something is wrong, either with the health in 
general or the heart in particular. Emotional peo- 
ple have a fast pulse on the slightest provocation. 
Excessive use of tobacco, tea, coffee, or liquor stimu- 
lates the heart. Most fevers, except a few which at- 
tack the brain, increase the pulse more or less, de- 
pending on the general constitution and the in- 
tensity of the infection. 

For the circulation of a healthy person, a heart 
the size of his fist, weighing ten to fourteen ounces, si ze O f t he 
furnishes enough power. If abnormally heavy de- Heart 
mands are made, the heart grows larger, just as 
our muscles grow bigger and stronger by regular- 
ly repeated exercise. Such enlargement, having to 
compensate for increased demands, is called "com- 
pensatory enlargement or Hypertrophy." It allows 
a satisfactory life to such people as can not get 
along with a normal sized heart on account of their 
exceptionally strenuous occupation, or by reason of 
obstacles arising in the circulation when the valves 
are defective or the blood-vessels contracted by 
substances which should be excreted, but are retained, 
as when the kidneys are sick. 

Formerly physicians became frightened at once 
when they detected an enlarged heart and valve 
trouble. To-day they consider them devoid of dan- 
ger, so long as the heart-muscle keeps strong, and 
see danger ahead only when the muscle shows signs 
of fatigue, or what they call "broken compensa- 

27 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

tion." Altho a person with a well compensating 
enlarged heart is fit to work and enjoy life just as 
well as a normal one, he invites defeat by wilfully 
undergoing unnecessarily heavy exercise or emotions. 
The walls of an over-tired, weakened heart are 
likely to give way under the pressure of the blood- 
stream, and stretch and bulge. This is called "dila- 
tation" and may appear on examination like a 
hypertrophic heart, whereas, in fact, the larger size 
means only larger cavities with distended walls, a 
condition which makes rest imperative until the 
muscle has grown strong enough to stand the ordi- 
nary demands of life. 

The heart-muscle itself is formed of many millions 
structure of of single fibers which are closely knitted, and twisted 
^muscle*" a ^ together at each end in opposite directions. This 
twist makes the whole much firmer and allows easier 
traction in both directions, first for closing, then for 
opening of the cavities. The inside is lined with a 
smooth membrane (endocard) which offers no fric- 
tion to the passing blood. A stronger membrane 
called "pericard" covers the outside and, duplicat- 
ing, forms a bag in which the heart is suspended 
by the blood-vessels and protected against infringe- 
ment of the neighboring organs, the lungs, which 
are on both sides, and the liver and stomach below. 
Between the two latter and the heart we find the 
diaphragm, the dividing membrane between chest 
and abdomen. 

28 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

The supply of fuel for its everlasting work is fur- Angina 
nished to the heart by two main vessels, the "coro- Pectoris 
nary" arteries, which, with many smaller branches, 
irrigate each little fiber. Without abundant nutri- 
tion the fibers deteriorate and soon lose their ability 
to contract. In "angina pectoris," the plague of 
our well-to-do people, the coronary blood-vessels par- 
tially fill up with a chalky substance as in "arterio- 
sclerosis," or they contract under the stimulus of 
nervousness and improper food, when the heart does 
not receive sufficient blood and cries in spells of pain 
and hunger, so that it has to be treated like a starved 
child and carefully saved every effort until it is 
strong again. Otherwise, it gives out entirely, as we 
daily see in the newspapers, by the sudden death 
of many of our best citizens. 

The question concerning the kind of power which 
the heart uses for its work is still unsettled. True, Motor-power 
each fiber is built of many little disks like an electric and Nerves of 

the Heart 

column of Yolta and an instrument registering elec- 
tricity indicates that an electric wave is produced at 
each contraction of the heart, but nobody knows 
whether this electricity is cause or effect. It is more 
probable that we have here again that mysterious 
vital force which, as yet, is to man a closed book. 
To follow up creation is almost uncanny. A little 
piece cut from the heart of a chick some time be- 
fore it breaks through the eggshell, moves on the 
table, contracts and stretches itself rhythmically and 

29 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

with proper care begins to grow like a plant. Every 
cell at the earliest period of our development is a 
living thing, with its own rights. In later stages of 
growth the cells give up their power to move individ- 
ually for a more centralized form of government. 
This we can observe on a heart which is laid open to 
inspection by removal of the breast-bone, or when it 
has been taken out of the body. It continues to beat 
for days, if kept under proper environment, and in 
such hearts we can see directly how, first, the waiting- 
rooms contract, then the ventricles and, between, 
a short pause intervenes during which the mysterious 
power crosses a bridge extending between both. The 
main power-station is located in the right waiting- 
room whence the power is distributed all through the 
heart. To insure the continuity of action, if some- 
thing goes wrong with the power-conduct, the ven- 
tricles, as main pumping-stations, are provided for all 
eventualities with emergency-motors which begin to 
work automatically at once when the current does 
not arrive in due time. When the two motors are at 
work independently, the rhythm of each is apt 
to be different; for instance, under such conditions 
the auricles frequently beat 150 and the ventricles 
only 30 times in one minute. This happens in 
"Adams-Stokes" disease, where the bridge connection 
is disturbed by sickness. The same trouble can be 
produced artificially by putting a tight ligature 
around the bridge connection, or cutting it, when 
auricles and ventricles begin to work at once, inde- 

30 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

pendently, in a different rhythm. The instant that 
we take the ligature away, both beat as normal, the 
same number of times. 

The heart, independent and beating its own pace, 
could perfectly well take care of the body if the de- 
mands on the circulation always remained the same. 
This is impossible, as every organ needs more food, 
or blood, when at work than when at rest, the brain 
when we think, the legs when we walk, the intestines 
for digestion, etc., etc., and a heart without nerve- 
connections with the rest of the body could never 
know or satisfy the ever-changing demands. For 
this reason the automatic motors of the heart are 
connected with every least little part of the body 
by two sets of nerves which bring orders for more 
or less blood supply, for faster or slower pumping. 
The messages for slowing down of the motors are 
sent over the vagus nerves, for speeding up over 
the sympathetic nerves. 

Not only for work, but for thoughts, the current 
of blood has to be changed, and the strain would be Arteries f 
overwhelming for the heart without the active co- 
operation of the arteries, from which the heart really 
originated. Both remain, all through life, subject to 
almost the same diseases and cures. 

Each artery is a model of efficiency and simplicity, 
being built much the same as the heart. On the in- 
side is a smooth membrane, then follow two layers 

31 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

of muscle, one circular to contract, the other length- 
wise to widen the channel. The outside is covered by 
a protecting skin. Nerves are distributed all along, 
which, as mentioned, communicate with the heart 
by way of brain and spine, and take and bring 
orders for more or less blood, and at once see to it 
that just enough room is ready in the arteries for 
the demanded supply. 

The muscles of the arteries assist the heart to 
circulate the blood. Every time a heart-beat pushes 
a new wave of blood forward, the elastic muscles be- 
come somewhat stretched and, when contracting to 
the unstretched size, add to or even up the pressure. 
In all probability the arteries have their own rhyth- 
mic contraction and relaxation and work together, 
not dependent entirely on the heart. The latter 
tires quickly and a jerky pulse indicates that the 
arterial action is wanting, as in arteriosclerosis when 
the walls of the arteries are changed to unelastic 
brittle tissue or in some forms of blood-poisoning 
when the walls are paralyzed. 

It is obvious that arteries whose walls have lost 
their elasticity are more likely to break or bulge 
under the pressure of the blood-stream when bags, 
" aneurisms, " are formed. These aneurisms are dan- 
gerous, as they burst easily. 

This is all the layman needs to know about heart 
and blood-vessels. The public is accustomed to be- 
ing told that somebody suffers from valvular heart- 

32 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

trouble and books describe, at great length, the dif- 
ferent valves. In sum and substance, the circula- 
tion represents the result of muscle-power of the 
heart and blood-vessels on one side, and the resis- 
tance in the circuit on the other. True, disordered 
valves render the work for the heart more difficult, 
but we deal here in greater detail with the heart- 
muscle because, first, every person who dies from 
valvular heart-trouble really dies from inefficiency 
of the heart-muscle and, second, while we possess no 
means for changing the valves, there are many ways 
for keeping and making the muscles of heart and 
blood-vessels strong enough to overcome most other 
ailments, thus producing a circulation sufficient for 
a comfortable life. 



33 



Ill 



THE SICK HEAET 

1. Wrongly built (congenital). 
Of poor material (inherited). 

2. Heart diseases which follow: 

(a) Diphtheria motor nerves. 

(&) Eheumatism valvular heart trouble, endocard- 
itis, pericarditis. 

(c) Syphilis endarteritis, aortic valve and muscu- 
lar heart trouble (angina pectoris), aneurism, 
art erio scl er o sis. 

3. Disturbances arising when blood does not receive its 

proper constituents : 

(a) From the thyroid gland (Grave's disease). 

(&) From the suprarenal glands (Addison's dis- 
ease) . 

(c) About puberty, woman's and man's critical age, 
genus and genius. 

(d*) Generally impoverished and overfed blood. 

4. Harm done by over-doing and under-doing. 

5. The tremendous influence of the mind on heart and blood- 

vessels (presclerosis, arteriosclerosis, premature old age) . 



35 



Ill 



THE SICK HEART 

0, what a pity that every child is not given an 
opportunity to learn from the heart the great lesson 
for health, happiness, and citizenship: that life de- 
mands the harmony in action of all its constituents 
and that discord and disease must necessarily follow 
if we develop on one side and on the other neglect 
any part, as if it were unimportant to the whole. 

During the last few centuries scientists have con- 
fined the function of the heart to the pumping of 
blood. Previously, for thousands of years, the heart 
was held responsible for a variety of pleasant and 
unpleasant emotions, as proven by expressions to be 
found in all languages, like "broken-hearted," 
"heartburn," "heartsick," " heart 's-ease," "sweet- 
heart," "lost heart," "bleeding-heart," etc. Our 
forefathers observed correctly that whenever any- 
thing exprest by the foregoing terms was expe- 
rienced, the heart changed its action and, taking 
effect for cause, they held the heart responsible. 
Indeed, when we define health as the cooperation of 
all the vital organs in a normal state, we have in 
the heart the finest indicator if anything is any- 
where wrong, so much so, that even the sins of our 
ancestors will be found to have left their mark. 

37 



THE HEAET AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

What is covered by clothes, the skin and the bones, 
inherited may possess exactly the same family resemblance as 
Weak Heart <j oes the face. A narrow chest may be inherited 
from a grandfather, just as well as a large nose. 
So may the material of the heart-muscle possess 
the same family peculiarities as tissue which gives 
color to the eye. Diseases are hardly ever, heart 
diseases never inherited. The disposition that pro- 
ceeds from a poorly configurated chest, however, and 
the poor stuff from which heart and blood-vessels 
are made, is inherited. Chemical analysis has shown 
that muscles which look exactly alike may so vary 
in worth as to be as different as may two pieces of 
steel. By very minute examination, certain chem- 
ical peculiarities have been traced through many 
generations of the same family. We are all a con- 
tinuation of our ancestors; their life and health 
would entirely determine our own if we could not 
change ourselves by different manners of living and 
so become different people. 

With congenital malformations and the results of 
excessive strain excepted, there exists no heart disease 
which originates in the heart itself; all start some- 
where else in the body. This is a fact to be re- 
membered in prevention and cure. 

Long-continued fever or long rest weakens the 
heart, as they do any other muscle. The parasites 
which cause sickness circulate in the blood and have 
access to the heart. Altho every one of them occa- 

38 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

sionally attacks the heart, the most of them find 
more favorable soil for growth somewhere else. But 
there are three infectious diseases in which we must 
always be on the lookout for trouble: diphtheria, 
rheumatism, and syphilis. 

Diphtheria is likely to weaken the heart-muscle 
and to paralyze its nerve-fibers. From the beginning 
every precaution must be taken to save and rein- 
force the heart and, during convalescence, heavy 
strain must be avoided, since it involves the danger 
of collapse. 

"When we say rheumatism affects the heart, we 
mean its bacteria. Inflamed, swollen joints, some Effect of 
forms of sore throat, of pleurisy, appendicitis, and 
ulcerations are all brought on by the same germ, 
which finds on the uneven surfaces of the tonsils its 
favorite hiding-place. From this point it attacks every 
part whose vitality is lowered, doing the most per- 
manent injury when settling on the fine membranes 
which cover the valves of the heart. 

A rheumatic joint can be kept quiet and so be, 
after the rheumatism is cured, just as good as it 
was before. The heart must keep on moving and 
beating and so the acute swelling of the valves may 
change to a permanent thickening after the rheu- 
matism is cured. The thickened valves shrink like 
scar tissue and frequently become too short for the 
openings they are to cover, a condition called by 
physicians " insufficiency of the valves." Denuded 

an 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

of their normal protective membrane, they stick and 
partially grow together until they permanently close 
a part of the opening, when the blood can not pass 
in a normally sized stream (stenosis). In the pre- 
vious chapter we saw how nature may overcome valve- 
defects by making the heart-muscle so strong tHat 
it can keep up a good circulation in spite of them. 

The danger in a disease depends on the more or 
less vicious character of the bacteria and the con- 
stitution of the patient, who offers a more or less 
favorable soil, or a stronger or weaker resistance. 
The bacteria of rheumatism can become so vicious as 
almost to honeycomb the heart with abscesses. This 
result is rare, and very dangerous when it occurs. 
Oftener they settle on the outer surface of the heart 
and cause pericarditis, filling the pericardial-sac with 
a yellow liquid, which generally is absorbed in from 
four to six weeks, or must be withdrawn by inserting 
a hollow needle. Pus may form, so that the heart, 
pericard, and ribs would be likely to grow together 
and make an operation necessary in order to free 
the heart from surrounding tissues to allow un- 
obstructed action. 

Rheumatism is the most common cause of valvular 
heart trouble. Altho we are able with present-day 
treatment, to cure, inside of a week, a case of rheu- 
matism which lasted formerly two months or longer, 
we yet possess no means for safely protecting the 
heart during even a very short spell of rheumatic 
sore throat. 

40 



THEIR CAKE AND CURE 

While diphtheria is most likely to strike at the 
nerves and rheumatism at the valves, syphilis weak- 
ens the heart-muscle in a round-about way by reduc- 
ing its blood-supply, which can not pass the syphil- 
itic arteries in normal quantity. 

The blood-vessels of a syphilitic person snow 
under the microscope little corkscrew-like, living, 
moving things, called 1 1 spirochaetas. ' ' It would take 
many thousands to cover the point of a needle and, 
while no patient can feel them, they have power 
enough to destroy the walls of the blood-vessels and 
to transform them into brittle chalky tissue, through 
which the necessary changes of food and waste be- 
tween cells and blood can not take place. Every 
organ so affected suffers from insufficient nutrition 
and is unable to work as well and as long as nor- 
mally. When the arteries of the brain are syphilitic 
the memory becomes poor, mental work produces 
fatigue quickly and the patient complains of dizzi- 
ness and headache. Hardened blood-vessels in a leg 
allow walking for a short distance only. Then, 
after a few minutes of rest, the walk may be con- 
tinued, only to be interrupted again after a little 
while by pain and weakness. Poorly nourished 
muscles and nerves make their hunger and exhaus- 
tion felt by pain and fatigue. 

When the coronary arteries which nourish the 
heart are syphilitic, the muscle gradually changes 
to a fibrous tissue, which needs less blood, but has 
no power of contraction; then the heart gives out 

41 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

at the least demand on its strength, and painful cramps 
in the left side of the chest, oppression and the 
feeling of impending death, symptoms of genuine 
angina pectoris, make life miserable. The starved 
heart does its best, goes to the limit of its strength, 
and then, after hours, days or years of vain effort 
to recuperate, gives out entirely and suddenly stands 
still. 

On the roughened surfaces of the syphilitic arter- 
ies the stream of blood is retarded. The blood may 
coagulate in little clots, which are likely to cause an 
obstruction and cut out the circulation from parts 
beyond it. If that happens in the brain all those 
parts of the body which the cut out district supplies 
with nerves become paralyzed, the center of speech 
being quite frequently affected. Fortunately, syphilis 
is to-day with most of its consequences, entirely 
curable. 

For years it was a riddle why people who had not 
suffered from any disease of the heart, should, seem- 
ingly without any reason, have a pulse of 100 or 
more a minute, a blood-pressure much higher or 
lower than normal and should suffer from a great 
variety of disturbances in the circulation. To-day 
we know that the component parts of the blood have 
to exist in the right proportion to satisfy each and 
every cell, and that, altho a wrong blood mixture 
may satisfy most parts of the body, it is apt to upset 
any one, for instance, the heart, which needs a cer- 

42 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 



tain substance that the blood either does not con- 
tain, or has in quantity larger than normal. 

The secretions of many glands are absorbed by the 
blood. When the thyroid gland, located in front of 
the neck and known as goiter if enlarged, is secret- 
ing too freely, the heart action becomes accelerated 
and the whole nervous system excited. This happens 
in a sickness called ' ' exopthalmic goiter" or 
"Grave's disease," in which a competent surgeon 
may remove, without the least danger, a part of the 
gland. Its secretions then become less and the 
nerves and heart almost at once normal. When the 
thyroid is absent or does not secrete enough, the 
pulse is slow, the nerves dull, and the patient grows 
better only when he uses as medicine the same 
gland taken from an animal. The same prescription 
is effective for people who wish to defer old age, as 
the thyroid, by means of the peculiar kind of iodine 
it contains, keeps the blood-vessels elastic. 

On top of the kidney is a little organ, called the 
"suprarenal gland," the function of which scientists 
did not understand for ages. To-day we know that if 
it does not exercise its proper function ("Addison's 
disease") heart and blood-vessels act as tho tired 
from lack of stimulation. When it secretes too much, 
the opposite happens, the blood-vessels contracting 
and making it difficult for the heart to pass the 
proper blood-supply. 

Another important substance is given to the blood 



Grave's 
Disease 



Addison's 
Disease 



43 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

by the regenerative organs. The ovaries, at the time 
puberty and ^ g ^ menstruation, add that substance which 

Change in Life 

makes the skeleton, breast, and character of a young 
girl grow distinctly feminine. Thirty-three to thirty- 
eight years later the ovarian activity and menstrua- 
tion cease, when the body loses its readiness for child- 
bearing and uterus and breast change to a character- 
less or fatty tissue. 

The entrance and exit period of the ovarian secre- 
tions, puberty and menopause, have no effect on the 
physical condition in general of a woman living in a 
normal state. In our present-day civilization, when 
the girl has to spend most of the day with studies 
indoors, sitting with nerves kept tense for hours 
in an effort to catch the meaning of a teacher's 
lesson, eating as much as her time allows and not 
as much as a sound body needs, puberty becomes a 
great trial for the heart, which finds it a hard and 
often an impossible task to supply, with blood im- 
poverished, sufficient nutrition to the body, which 
at this period starts to grow more rapidly. 

During the menopause, on account of the ceased 
menstruation, a surplus of blood and energy is in 
stock, and in the effort to find an outlet, often 
causes palpitation, congestion, restlessness, etc. When 
some activity is not systematically substituted, the 
body and heart become weak and fat just at a 
time when they have to adjust themselves to a 
new order of circulation on account of the cessation 
of the menstrual flow. For a woman whose perfectly 

44 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

natural sex-instinct has been cheated of its due 
satisfaction, the nervous system adds its share to the 
heart's discontent during the menopause. It is un- 
fortunate that nature demands man as a necessary 
ingredient in a woman's life; without a man, many 
women grow peculiar and become victims of extremely 
stubborn heart- and stomach-troubles, which, fortu- 
nately, disappear after the fifty-fifth year. 

Boys who squander the product of the regenerative 
organs around the puberty age lack sufficient impetus 
for a harmonious development; some part of their 
body, be it heart, nervous system, or muscles, will 
not grow in proper proportion to the rest. Later 
on as men, they are tolerably fit for life, but seldom 
altogether harmonious personalities. 

Between the forty-eighth and fifty-fifth year a 
great deal of male energy is set free; it had pre- 
viously been reserved for the regenerative functions. 
Many foolish men mistake this temporarily changed 
distribution of energy as a kind of " second wind" 
with which to pitch anew into the battle of life, 
only, inside of ten years, to break down with an ex- 
hausted heart. At the forty-fifth year, at the latest, 
the heart loses part of its elasticity, the same as the 
eye, and everybody who tries at that age to work, 
smoke, drink, exercise, etc., etc., as tho he were 
forty, risks hurting his heart beyond the possibility 
of repair. Wear and tear takes place in the very 
best built body. The blessing of feeling young can 
be made lasting only by acting as becomes one's age. 

45 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

Nature provides a long autumn to man's life, one 
full of opportunities to enjoy the fruits of our past 
work, to carry out ideas the mind produced in youth 
and to continue in channels the brain has been ad- 
justed to. Dr. Osier called attention to the close re- 
lationship of genus and genius, of sex and pro- 
ductive power, when, in the study of the life of 
great men, he found their great ideas always born 
in youth, but often developed and carried out after 
their forty-fifth year had passed. 

Blood altogether impoverished lowers the vitality 
impoverished of the heart as well as that of the rest of the body, 
and B o v o e ^ fed and to make the strain on the former greater, the 
poorly nourished cells seek from the center of nutri- 
tion in the brain a greater sufficiency of food. 
The heart is then given orders for more frequent 
delivery by quick action. Many patients with anaemia, 
chlorosis, and other blood-diseases become well only 
when, by keeping quiet, they make few demands on 
the heart, so that it may have rest and the time 
to build up its absolutely necessary reserve power. 

On the other hand, a blood that is too rich renders 
the circulation difficult. The blood normally consists 
of a nutritive liquid called "serum," in each milli- 
meter of which are four to five million oxygen-carry- 
ing red corpuscles and five to seven thousand white 
corpuscles, which are the scavengers of the body and 
police the blood against bacteria. It necessarily 
means more work when the heart has to move blood 

46 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

which is much heavier than normal. Until sixty 
years ago physicians were in the habit of treating 
patients by blood-letting. From its color, consistency, 
and coagulability they formed, and often correctly, 
an opinion regarding the outlook for recovery. Later 
this method came entirely into disuse and physicians 
forgot the importance to the circulation of the 
blood's consistency, until it was recalled to their 
mind by the good results obtained for heart, brain, 
and the whole body when the blood was made more 
fluid by food and treatment. 

From reading of various places where trouble 
may arise, the reader may receive an erroneous im- Moderation 
pression that he should watch parts of his anatomy 
of whose existence he has hitherto had not the least 
idea. I could have avoided giving this impression 
by simply stating the fact that infectious diseases 
and bad blood may do injury to the heart. I touched, 
intentionally, upon every single part in order to show 
the reader what a marvel he is and how foolish if 
he expects to secure health by considering a few 
seemingly important organs, while everything depends 
on the harmonious working of them all. For conso- 
lation I will give here, in one word, a protection 
against most ills that can befall us moderation, not 
only in pleasure, but also in work. We surely expect 
God, in the other world, to reward virtue differently 
than vice; in this world he simply insists on modera- 
tion and deals out practically the same finish to the 

47 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

man who is too good as to the one who is very bad. 
For instance, anybody who works from his four- 
teenth year twelve hours daily in an office, must 
expect to have a weak heart and a distorted chest. 
These will cause almost the same inconveniences as 
are experienced by a man who, born to weigh 180 
pounds, increases his weight, by laziness and too much 
food and drink, to 250 pounds. The thin, flabby 
heart has practically as little resisting power, in 
case of sickness, as a fat heart; the disadvantage of 
the latter is that it must continually do an unfairly 
large amount of work, the 100 pounds of over- 
weight meaning the same strain on the system as if 
a normally-sized person carried continually 100 
pounds of lead on his back. We refer the reader 
here to the extremely important Chapter VI, where 
I deal at length on the danger arising for heart 
and blood-vessels from the habit of eating meat in 
excess of the requirements of the body. 

In a special chapter I will discuss the necessity of 
being moderate in rest as well as in exercise. Often 
parents forbid to their children football, boxing and 
other forms of strenuous exercise, not knowing that 
by so doing they are likely to stunt their boys' and 
girls' future. Body and mind can be led up grad- 
ually to achievements which they can neither reach 
nor stand when unprepared. Parents are afraid of 
over-taxation of the heart which generally is the 
result of too little previous exercise ; it happens al- 
most only to those not rightly trained. The un- 

48 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

trained man is likely to break down at any time. 
An unexpectedly heavy strain can not always be 
avoided and there exists a close relationship be- 
tween mind and body. 

If taken to excess, coffee, tobacco, and alcohol are 
enemies of the heart, while, moderately used, none 
of them, or all combined, has prevented men from 
producing the best we have in art, science, and 
literature. 

All that we have mentioned up to this point is 
not sufficient to explain why the heart often gives influence of 
out prematurely in people who have led in every way Mil ^ 
an exemplary and healthy life. The reason is found vessels 
instantly when the influence of mind on heart and 
blood-vessels is investigated. Incidentally, an ex- 
planation is here given of Christian Science, as it 
cures many patients who could not be cured by 
physicians. 

Everybody knows people who blush when ashamed, 
who become pale and cold when afraid, who are 
troubled by the bladder and the bowels when they 
become excited, or are in suspense. These conditions 
depend, in the main, on the contraction and relaxa- 
tion of the blood-vessels and are an exaggeration of 
what happens in a lesser degree to all of us. With 
a magnifying glass and reflected light one can see 
the blood-vessels in the background of the eye 
change with every emotion. To the layman the same 
process can be demonstrated by an apparatus called 

49 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

a plethysmograph. This is a glass cylinder filled 
with water, which can be fastened with a rubber cuff 
around the arm so that the water and arm fill it 
entirely. Connected with the cylinder is a stand- 
pipe in which the water can rise and fall, depending 
on the room it finds in the inside. When cold water 
is thrown on any part of the body outside of the 
cylinder, at once the water in the indicator-pipe falls 
and then rises, as first the blood-vessels contract 
and later dilate, making the volume of the arm first 
smaller and then larger, leaving more or less room 
for the water in the cylinder. After waiting a few 
minutes, the same rise and fall in the stand-pipe and 
the same contraction and relaxation of the blood- 
vessels take place when the person is made to believe 
that cold water will again be thrown on the body 
without such a thing really taking place, showing 
that fright may have the same effect on the body as 
a real happening. 

During the French Revolution a thirty-year-old 
nobleman was condemned to die by the guillotine. 
The night before the execution he had conversed 
with other prisoners until half past three in the 
morning, when he fell asleep. Shortly before he 
was to start for the place of execution, a friend 
came and, wishing to awaken him, touched the 
back of his neck lightly with his finger. The noble- 
man opened his eyes for a fraction of a second, made 
two or three jerky movements with his legs and then 
was dead. None of his friends and relatives had 

50 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

seen any signs which gave the least suspicion of his 
having been in danger of sudden death from internal 
disease. It was the consensus of opinion that the 
touch of the finger at the moment of awakening, 
after the mind had been directed for days and weeks 
on the approaching death, gave the sensation of the 
knife of the guillotine with the same fatal effect. 
However, as no post-mortem was made, skeptics might 
say the nobleman died from a stroke of apoplexy. 

The following case was reported in 1912 by a 
professor of obstetrics in the University of Berlin, 
and is, beyond doubt, true: A young woman, mar- 
ried for several years without having children, but 
very anxious to have a baby, got a fixt idea that 
she was pregnant, her breasts became congested and, 
at the ninth month, secreted as if she had really 
borne a baby, altho she had menstruated regularly 
and had never been pregnant. 

An experiment which proves, beyond doubt, the 
mind's power over the circulation, is the following: 
If one fastens a blood-pressure apparatus around the 
arm of anyone who performs a mental or bodily task 
to which he is not accustomed, the blood-pressure 
will increase out of proportion to the work done, 
sometimes as much as when performing a task ten times 
more difficult, but to which he is accustomed. After 
the new kind of work has been done several times, 
and the person becomes used to it, the disproportion 
between work and blood-pressure disappears. 

With an instrument we can measure the distance 

51 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

which two points in touching the skin must be apart 
in order to be felt as a single point, or as two sepa- 
rate points. By calling attention to the spot before 
touching it, the sensibility increases on account of the 
greater influx of blood. As the flow of blood increases 
to parts to which attention is directed, we may prepare 
the soil for the growth of bacteria by watching, dur- 
ing an epidemic, the part in which the disease most 
commonly settles for example, when cholera or 
typhoid are prevalent, the intestines; when diph- 
theria, the throat, etc., etc. That is the reason why 
people who are most afraid fall the easiest victims. 
The influence of a thought on the circulation can be 
shown experimentally by putting a person comfort- 
ably on his back on a board and balancing the board 
in the middle, so that it moves like a see-saw. When 
a person so lying plans or figures, the end where the 
head lies becomes heavier and sinks; when his 
thoughts are concentrated on his feet, that end is 
lowered as the feet become heavier. 

On the other hand, we find the function of any 
part which works automatically and independent of 
our will is stopt or retarded when we concentrate 
attention upon it. When we hit the knee just below 
the knee-cap, the lower leg, in a healthy person, 
jerks. Calling attention to the fact that such a 
thing will happen is sufficient to prevent, in nervous 
people, this perfectly normal reflex. By diverting 
attention, the reflex at once takes place. Here we 
have an explanation of many nervous women who 

52 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

have normal confinements after they become Christian 
Scientists, when previously, they had had to undergo 
operations at the hands of physicians, who through 
their very solicitude, called consciousness, to the ac- 
tion, and so paralyzed the motion of the uterus, 
which is the normal reflex for delivering a child. 
In the same way, we may induce inability to urinate, 
constipation, or other troubles, by worrying about 
bladder, bowels, etc. 

Envy, depression, high-strung attention, or fear 
can be recognized without seeing the patient, merely 
from his pulse and blood-pressure. With a little 
reflection, every one at once will realize the con- 
trolling influence which the mind has over the 
blood-vessels of the sex organs. Sensitive patients 
with fever generally have a rise in temperature 
after a visit is made to them, as every hospital 
physician knows, if he keeps exact records of 
temperature. The sick heart of a good Catholic 
beats more regularly after the visit of his Father 
Confessor. 

To mention one more and extreme example of the 
tremendous influence of the mind over the blood- 
vessels, let me cite the well-proven fact that a red 
spot like a burn can be produced, when we tell 
a deeply hypnotized person that a finger when touch- 
ing the skin is a burning match. The spot becomes 
red by congestion. Every one may draw from this 
his own conclusion as to what mischief a morbid 
imagination can work and as to how much help 

53 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

can be given by influences which set the mind at 
rest. 

It must be admitted that, in theory, the mind 
may even control the growth of a tumor, as, by 
regulating the width of blood-vessels, it may cut the 
tumor out of the circulation and starve it to death, 
or, on the other hand, make it grow faster by direct- 
ing attention and congestion to it The mind can 
influence the body the same as a poison or as it is 
affected by the thyroid and suprarenal gland; it can 
widen the blood-vessels, as the former does, and 
almost close them, as the latter does, with the same 
effect on the health. 

The bowels and bladder in nervous people make 
often frequent and imperative demands for relief; 
the urine sometimes passes like water in large quan- 
tities, sometimes is very yellow and scanty, so that 
much waste is retained by the system, which may 
cause discomfort, gout, and other sickness. The re- 
laxed or contracted state of the blood-vessels causes 
the difference in the quality and quantity of the urine 
filtered. It is interesting to note the experience of 
people who take morphine. When the morphine is 
taken away from them, they feel unhappy and the 
kidneys work very little, but once more act freely 
when the patient again takes morphine and feels 
happy. The drug itself has no direct effect on the 
kidneys. 

Very few people who worry and fret have sound 
kidneys when fifty years old, especially when they 

54 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

are heavy eaters. French physicians call the condition 
preceding thoroughly developed hardening of the 
blood-vessels, ' ' presclerosis, ' ' which, in most cases, 
means nothing more than blood-vessels spasmodically 
contracted by nervousness or inappropriate food or 
both. 

In people with stability of purpose and action, the 
blood-vessels have more rest and remain in good 
condition much longer than in those who are 
inconsistent, and restless, and who one minute 
want one thing and the next, another thing; who 
love to-day and hate to-morrow, but for no 
sufficient reason; who become enthusiastic and 
indifferent, excited and deprest and change their 
plans with the weather or with the expression on 
the faces of others. A continual contracting and 
relaxing is going on in their blood-vessels which, 
at the age of fifty, show all the symptoms of 
old age. 

The influence of the mind on the circulatory 
apparatus is a fact on which not enough stress can 
be laid. Arteriosclerosis was considered until recent- 
ly a condition peculiar to old age, syphilis, tobacco 
and lead-poisoning, altho people over eighty years 
old were known who showed no traces of it, and 
others who at the age of thirty had blood-vessels like 
clay pipe-stems, in spite of the fact that they had 
never used tobacco in excess, never had syphilis, or 
lead-poisoning and had abstained from everything in- 
jurious. To-day we know that arteriosclerosis often 

55 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

represents the worn-out condition of blood-vessels 
which had been overworked by the continual pulling 
on their muscular walls by an emotional and restless 
mind. 

By following the life of those who have reached 
a useful old age, we find some who have drunk 
whisky, others who have not; some who recommend 
tobacco, others who condemn it as a poison; some 
who recommend much sleep or meat, and others the 
opposite. The manner of life varies greatly, but all 
who live to be old have, in common, equanimity 
and a habit of taking things for what they are 
really worth; they do not worry, grieve, or be- 
come excited more than a reasonable conception of 
life warrants. Nature has made a cruel jest by 
allowing good-for-nothing idiots to live as long as 
the philosopher, as neither is much affected by 
anything. 

Many cases are known of patients who, all their 
lives long, were compelled to have their food especial- 
ly prepared for them, on account of stomach trouble, 
who never went far from a physician on account of 
distressing spells of palpitation of the heart and 
shortness of breath, and yet who became able to 
digest the most indigestible food and were free 
from every symptom of heart-trouble, when, with 
advancing age or from other causes, their minds 
grew dull and feeble and they were unable to fret 
and worry. 

But it would be wrong to believe that the mind 

56 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

is the only ruler of the body's destiny. Diet, exer- 
cise, general hygiene and infection are of great im- 
portance. On the other hand, it is proven by exact 
experiments and observation, that the mind has the 
power to interfere with the function, the circulation, 
and the nutrition of any organ in the body. 

The following account of a certain patient shows 
how the same disease may be caused either by a 
sick organ, or, in an even more dangerous form, by 
the mind alone. This man suffered from Grave's 
disease; the abnormal secretions of the thyroid gland 
made sugar appear in the blood, a diseased condi- 
tion which is called diabetes. Part of the thyroid 
was cut away, the sugar disappeared, and the patient 
became well. The man passed nine years in perfect 
health. Then there was a run on a bank of which 
he was president. The great excitement that fol- 
lowed was alone enough to disturb sufficiently the 
whole system so as to cause sugar to reappear in the 
blood. The patient died in the following year. 

Not every worrying, over-sensitive, inconsistent 
person becomes a victim of organic disease, prema- 
ture old age, arteriosclerosis, etc., any more than 
consumption always follows a bad cough. A pre- 
disposition must be there; it must have been given 
to the circulatory system by inherited inferior ma- 
terial and an unhygienic life, excesses in work, in 
the use of alcohol, tobacco, and in over-indulgence in 
animal passions. Many people, especially women, 

57 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

Buffer from so-called cardio-neurosis and angio- 
neurosis (nervous heart and blood-vessels) and often 
improve with age. They were born without a pre- 
disposition and the mind leaves the circulation in 
peace after the change of life is passed. 



58 



IV 



THE PHYSICIAN'S EXAMINATION AND 
WORKSHOP 

1. Why the heart must be examined in every disease. 

2. The distinction between a nervous (functional) and an 

organically sick heart. 

3. The methods of examination: 

(a) Percussion. 

(&) Eoentgen (X) Bays. 

(c) Auscultation. 

(d!) Pulse-feeling and pulse-writing. 

(e) Blood-pressure. 

(/) Electrocardiograph. 

4. How to find the real worth and working ability of the 

heart, irrespective of its anatomic structure. 



59 



IV 



THE PHYSICIAN'S EXAMINATION AND 
WORKSHOP 

The heart must receive a thorough test, no matter 
what a patient may complain about. It is of im- 
portance to know if all organs are receiving the 
proper amount of blood through a good circulation. 
In sickness we should be sure that the heart can 
stand unassisted the strain of fever, pain, and 
operations; otherwise, it should be reinforced at 
once. 

From what the patient himself may say, it is im- 
possible to decide whether his symptoms are due to 
an organic disease, which means to a real change in 
tissue, or bacteria, to poorly digested food, or 
whether his trouble is solely the result of poor 
circulation, due to a weak heart. No organ can act 
properly when it does not receive its right supply of 
food and oxygen and is filled with waste which the 
blood-current should have carried away. 

Every symptom of neurasthenia may, but need not, 
find explanation in the condition of the heart and Heart, 
kidneys. A physician who keeps this possibility in lerv ^ ness 
mind succeeds sometimes in curing patients who Endurance 
previously were treated but not improved. Unfor- 
tunately, a slight weakness is often overlooked if not 

61 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

be furnished with new cause for worry. Such people 
pay too much attention to their hearts and succeed 
in training their nerves to report to their perception 
what an average person does not feel; they become 
conscious of what is only the normal action of the 
heart, but are disturbed by it, altho it is exactly in 
the same condition as in a perfectly sound person, 
in whom it goes on continually and absolutely un- 
noticed. Such patients often wish to keep quiet as, 
with exercise, the heart action naturally becomes a 
little more intense and, to them, disturbing. What 
most of them really need is plenty of outdoor exer- 
cise, appropriate work, and diversion. It is inter- 
esting to note how a nervous heart improves with 
continued exercise, altho it may have caused trouble 
in the beginning. Walking up a steep mountain 
causes palpitation and shortness of breath during the 
first two hours, but the nervous heart becomes perfectly 
normal during the third and fourth hour of climb- 
ing. This never happens in the case of a patient 
with an organically sick heart, who feels worse the 
farther he climbs. 

Patients with functional heart-trouble are very 
frequent visitors to a doctor's office, complaining 
about palpitation and irregularity of the heart, a 
feeling of pulsation all over, suffocation, especially 
at night, pain in the left side, cold hands and feet, 
panicky fear, etc. It is as logical to ascribe to the 
heart every sensation in the left side, as to the brain 
every headache, or to a diseased kidney every back- 

64 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

ache. The very closest examination usually shows a 
perfectly sound heart, but the patient must be re- 
assured again and again that all his heart symp- 
toms are the result of nervousness and will disap- 
pear when right living and thinking have made him 
well in every other direction. 

The really organically sick and grossly inefficient 
heart is readily diagnosed. The signs are evident. 
The number of beats increases, as such a heart needs 
one hundred and more of its weak contractions to 
circulate the blood, which previously could be moved 
with sixty or eighty normally strong pulsations. 
Shortness of breath is complained of when walking, 
talking or exercising. Blood stagnates in the dis- 
tant and lowest lying parts from which the return 
flow is the most difficult; in the feet dropsy sets in, 
later spreading all over the body; lips and finger- 
tips show a bluish tint. Every organ is badly im- 
paired, the liver and kidneys are inactive, the diges- 
tion is sluggish, the mind drowsy. The patient is 
unable to remain in bed, is forced to spend day and 
night sitting in a chair, when death seems to be 
imminent and welcome to end his misery. But in 
the vast majority of cases all symptoms disappear 
with the right treatment, and danger of their re- 
currence remains only when the patient does not 
take good care of himself. With each reappearance 
of the symptoms, the treatment, unfortunately, helps 
less and becomes, finally, entirely inefficient. 

65 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

be furnished with new cause for worry. Such people 
pay too much attention to their hearts and succeed 
in training their nerves to report to their perception 
what an average person does not feel; they become 
conscious of what is only the normal action of the 
heart, but are disturbed by it, altho it is exactly in 
the same condition as in a perfectly sound person, 
in whom it goes on continually and absolutely un- 
noticed. Such patients often wish to keep quiet as, 
with exercise, the heart action naturally becomes a 
little more intense and, to them, disturbing. What 
most of them really need is plenty of outdoor exer- 
cise, appropriate work, and diversion. It is inter- 
esting to note how a nervous heart improves with 
continued exercise, altho it may have caused trouble 
in the beginning. "Walking up a steep mountain 
causes palpitation and shortness of breath during the 
first two hours, but the nervous heart becomes perfectly 
normal during the third and fourth hour of climb- 
ing. This never happens in the case of a patient 
with an organically sick heart, who feels worse the 
farther he climbs. 

Patients with functional heart-trouble are very 
frequent visitors to a doctor's office, complaining 
about palpitation and irregularity of the heart, a 
feeling of pulsation all over, suffocation, especially 
at night, pain in the left side, cold hands and feet, 
panicky fear, etc. It is as logical to ascribe to the 
heart every sensation in the left side, as to the brain 
every headache, or to a diseased kidney every back- 

64 



THEIR CAEE AND CURE 

ache. The very closest examination usually shows a 
perfectly sound heart, but the patient must be re- 
assured again and again that all his heart symp- 
toms are the result of nervousness and will disap- 
pear when right living and thinking have made him 
well in every other direction. 

The really organically sick and grossly inefficient 
heart is readily diagnosed. The signs are evident. 
The number of beats increases, as such a heart needs 
one hundred and more of its weak contractions to 
circulate the blood, which previously could be moved 
with sixty or eighty normally strong pulsations. 
Shortness of breath is complained of when walking, 
talking or exercising. Blood stagnates in the dis- 
tant and lowest lying parts from which the return 
flow is the most difficult; in the feet dropsy sets in, 
later spreading all over the body; lips and finger- 
tips show a bluish tint. Every organ is badly im- 
paired, the liver and kidneys are inactive, the diges- 
tion is sluggish, the mind drowsy. The patient is 
unable to remain in bed, is forced to spend day and 
night sitting in a chair, when death seems to be 
imminent and welcome to end his misery. But in 
the vast majority of cases all symptoms disappear 
with the right treatment, and danger of their re- 
currence remains only when the patient does not 
take good care of himself. With each reappearance 
of the symptoms, the treatment, unfortunately, helps 
less and becomes, finally, entirely inefficient. 

65 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

An organically sick heart does not always cause 
symptoms. They appear in most cases only when its 
muscle weakens. In fact, a wrongly built heart is 
often detected by chance, as, for instance, during a 
life insurance examination of a patient who feels per- 
fectly well. Until sixty years ago such persons 
often died of old age without ever knowing that 
their heart was wrongly built, nor did physicians 
even suspect such trouble. 

Men of a so-called strictly scientific turn of mind 
have always been inclined to deny everything that 
at the time can not be proven, seen, or heard and 
to forget that their own generation, with more per- 
fect instruments and a better understanding, finds 
things to be true that a few years before were con- 
sidered fairy tales. This mental attitude explains 
why heart diseases were considered rare until the be- 
ginning of the last century; there had existed no 
instrument to detect them. 

The diagnosis " heart-disease ' ' became frequent; 
Percussion any deviation from the normal was at once erro- 
neous l y considered dangerous when physicians ap- 
plied to the human chest the commonplace test of 
a tapping finger, which makes a different noise on 
a chest as on a barrel filled with some solid or liquid 
from what it makes on one filled with air. When the 
chest is hit lightly with a little hammer or with a 
finger, we hear over the air-filled lungs a different 
sound from that over the blood-filled and more solid 



THEIR CAKE AND CUBE 

heart-muscle. The tapping, or light hammering, on 
the chest, which helps us to find the size and location 
of the heart, is called "percussion." This method 
has been perfected in recent years, since we can 
check up our findings with the picture disclosed by 
the X-rays. X-rays show the heart and its action 
plainly, and allow us to take its photograph, exact 
tracing, and kinematograph. They furnish us to- 
day with excellent assistance in making a correct 
diagnosis of most forms of heart-trouble. In the 
second chapter I discust the meaning of an enlarged, 
or "hypertrophic," heart. An exceptionally small 
heart is always connected with general weakness and 
is just as much a part, as a cause, of sickness. 

After finishing with the " percussion," the physi- 
cian generally puts his ear, or an ear-trumpet, Auscultation 
("stethoscope") on the patient's chest to hear (to 
"auscultate") the heart's sounds. The sound made 
by running water changes with the pressure and 
the width of the outlet, a rule which holds good for 
the heart. When the valves open more or less than 
normal and the pressure is stronger or weaker, the 
sounds differ from those that are characteristic of 
the normal heart. As the location of each valve is 
known the seat of the defect may be easily located. 

The general appearance of the patient, the condi- 
tion of the tongue, pulse, and drawn blood, decided Pulse an . d 
for the old-time physician the patient's outlook and 

67 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

treatment; laboratory tests, auscultation, percussion, 
X-rays and almost every other means used in present- 
day examinations were then unknown. Big books 
written at the beginning of the last century dealt 
entirely with the pulse. Since then the pulse has 
lost much of its significance in diagnosis, but has 
kept its importance in decisions regarding the prob- 
able recovery. The pulse gives the number of heart- 
beats, their strength, and rhythm, and, as the pulse 
of a vein depends on the contraction of the auricles 
and that of an artery, of the contraction of the ven- 
tricles, so can we ascertain if both work in harmony 
and right succession when we feel a pulse at the 
same time on a vein and on an artery. 

The best trained finger does not succeed in re- 
porting all these facts to the brain distinctly enough 
to rely on them as indisputable facts. They can be 
recorded, however, by an instrument called the 
sphygmograph, which is a little metallic spring with 
a lever two or three inches long. The metallic spring 
is bound over the pulse and the lever writes the 
least little motion on a piece of paper moved regu- 
larly in front of it. Such tracings can be carefully 
studied and often assist in leading to the right 
diagnosis and treatment. 

Blood-pressure is measured by putting around 
Blood-pressure the arm a rubber hose into which air is pumped. 
The rubber hose is connected with a dial which indi- 
cates the pressure. As air is forced into the hose, 

68 



THEIR CAKE AND CURE 

the arteries of the arm are gradually comprest until 
the pressure of the hose is sufficient to close the 
blood-vessels entirely; the pulse on the wrist then 
disappears. At that moment the dial is looked at 
and the blood-pressure is found to be one hundred 
or two hundred, as the scale may indicate. Normal 
pressure in the arterial system is equal to a column 
of mercury averaging 100-120 millimeters ; any much 
higher pressure kept up continually means increased 
wear on the heart and blood-vessels and is commonly 
found in arteriosclerosis. The pressure is changed by 
age, food, emotions, bowel action, etc., and the physi- 
cian has to use discrimination in order to draw cor- 
rect conclusions. At present the danger of high 
blood-pressure is often very much exaggerated. 

The fact has long been known that electricity is 
always present in the contracting muscle whether 
as cause or result has not yet been decided. At 
any rate, we get an exact report of the time and 
kind of the muscle's contraction by watching an ap- 
paratus that indicates its electricity. In recent years 
science has succeeded in constructing an instrument 
of this kind for the heart, called electrocardiograph. 
It registers three characteristic phases the first 
during the contraction of the auricles, the second 
as the contracting wave runs down over the bridge 
conduct to the point of the heart, and the third 
during the final effort of the main pumping-sta- 
tion (the ventricles) to press the blood into the 

69 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

circulation. Many heart diseases can be diagnosed 
from their electric tracings, especially those affecting 
the power-conduct between the auricles and ventricles. 
The electric waves are very minute and must be 
magnified and photographed in order to become dis- 
tinct to the eye. But they are so characteristic 
that they can not be confused with anything else of 
the kind, even by an inexperienced observer. 

All these instruments show only how the heart 

The only looks and acts at the moment of the examination. 

Reliable Test j n fo Q vas majority of cases, we learn nothing 

of the Heart s 

strength about the heart s vital energy, endurance, and ability 
to take care of the body. In short, we do not 
receive any answer to the all-important question: 
what is the patient able to do, and does his heart 
allow an active and long life? Instruments can 
not always answer these questions. Structural de- 
fects in the heart unlike those in a steam-engine 
can be balanced by increased vital energy and 
strength of the heart-muscle, while a normal-looking 
heart may lack in power and give out under increased 
pressure induced by sickness, excitement, or work. 
This corresponds with the fact that the broken arm 
of a strong man, even when mended wrong, may hit 
harder than the well-rounded arm of a weakling 
whose arm never was hurt. 

The value of a heart is found by ascertaining 
its working capacity in physical, mental, and emo- 
tional tests; by watching, for instance, how walk- 

70 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

ing, talking, figuring, or an excitement acts on the 
pulse and respiration. The quality of the sleep 
soon after an effort has been put forth and the gen- 
eral condition a day or two after, are significant. 
These tests have conclusively shown that the value 
of a heart corresponds to its working ability, and 
not to its size and sounds. It may be good for 
many years of an active and happy life, in spite of 
structural defects. 



71 



PREVENTION 

HOW CAN I PROTECT MY OWN AND MY CHILDREN'S 
HEALTH? 

1. The commonwealth: 

(a) The best education is the best prevention. 

(&) Medical school inspection. 

(c) Health departments and research institutions. 

(d) Sanitary legislation. 

(e) Welfare legislation. 

(/) The stamping out of city-grown hotbeds for 
crime, infant mortality, and tuberculosis. 

2. The individual: 

The constitution of man limits the freedom of the 
individual. 



73 



PREVENTION 

HOW CAN I PROTECT MY OWN AND MY CHILDREN'S 
HEALTH ? 

Our body on the day of our birth is given to 
many millions of parasites as their place of living. Best Education 
As this earth is our world so our body is theirs. is Best 
Some move about in us as peacefully as we walk 
the streets; others are busy in helping to dispose of 
our food, or to destroy unwelcome members of 
their own race. Many scientists are certain that 
friendly parasites degenerate in our body and cause 
sickness when we by improper living fail to offer 
them the abode God intended for them; while 
others insist that all disease-producing parasites are 
intruders from the outside, altho they often bear 
the same appearance as our harmless permanent 
guests. 

At any rate there are so many friendly and un- 
friendly, transient and permanent parasites, want- 
ing to live in, with, and from us that the human 
race would have been extinct long ago if it had to 
rely for protection on physicians and druggists 
alone. This is not the case, as our body was consti- 
tuted as a well-administered community, fully pre- 
75 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

pared to take care of itself. We are conscious of 
only a small part of ourselves. Many things are 
continually going on in our body of which we have 
not the least consciousness. Orders are given and 
taken by different nerves; digestion, excretion, and 
the current of blood are regulated; when we eat a 
surplus of food, more is allowed for consumption; 
when there is a scarcity, the system is adjusted to a 
more economical basis; if there is want, the body's 
administration draws first on our fat to supply the 
other organs with fuel, fat being the substance most 
easily spared; broken bones and wounds are mended 
by the growth of new tissue, and all this goes on 
without our control or conscious realization. The 
thinking, the conscious part of man's personality is 
only a bubble on the surface of his being, altho dif- 
ferentiating him from the animals. At least, so we 
believe at present. In case of sickness, the body 
fights automatically for protection. The white- 
blood corpuscles, the health commissioners of the 
body, give at once battle to the unfriendly parasites 
and the blood forms a substance which tries to de- 
stroy the parasites and their injurious products. 
Often it is impossible for a physician to recognize 
the disease from the symptoms, and decide what the 
treatment should be. Then he may withdraw a little 
blood from the patient, find what disease the blood 
has been ready to fight, and from the result he can 
immediately say safely if the patient suffers from 
typhoid, softening of the brain, or has been bitten 

76 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

by a snake, etc., and follow nature's lead in the 
treatment of the malady. Obviously, for its self- 
protection and warfare, the body must be its normal 
self, a condition possible only when it is allowed to 
lead its natural life. What constitutes a natural 
or normal life, in the present state of civilization, 
few people know. 

"When reason was given to man, he lost part of 
that instinct which led him to lead a natural life. 
Desire for food, rest, exercise, and sex-satisfaction for 
animals is regulated by instinct, which at once makes 
them want just as much as is good for them. Man 
possesses the instinctive desire for food, exercise, 
etc., but that part of the instinct which would just 
rightly supply the needs has been taken away from 
him and in place of it he was given reason, and he 
has become free to decide for himself from an im- 
mense range of possibilities. Man can get, prepare, 
and eat his food in the most varied ways; he may 
remain single, he may live with one or a dozen women ; 
he may exercise all day or have animals or machin- 
ery do his work; he may sleep six or twelve hours, 
just as he fancies. In man the subconscious physi- 
cal part of the body is placed, to a great extent, in 
the care of the conscious, reasoning part, which has 
to decide how best to provide for the former. Altho 
nature allows us a great field from which to choose 
with impunity, we make mistakes and the results 
at present are not what they should be, as few 
enjoy perfect health. On the other hand, we 

77 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

know to-day what the true needs for health and 
happiness are; we know all this from observation 
of people who have led the longest and most 
efficient lives and who unconsciously followed rules 
which perfectly coincide with those that have been 
found best by scientific research. These rules must 
be taught to the child, and not left to be found out 
after half of life has been spoiled by mistakes. 
Public schools must teach "the three r's" on sub- 
jects pertaining to man's health and happiness. 
There exists not the least doubt that "the best edu- 
cation is the best prevention of sickness/' 

The health of the citizen being a public asset, just 
Medical as is the ability to read and write, all children 
School- should have in school the benefit of a physician to 

inspection 

advise them in regard to their welfare. Parents 
should refuse to send children to any school that 
does not have careful medical inspection. A child 
may become infected from another child who is sick 
or carries to school germs from a sick brother or sis- 
ter at home. The medical school-inspector should 
strictly avoid interfering with parents' views in re- 
gard to treatment; he should enforce rules of hy- 
giene for the prevention of disease and find out the 
reasons why a child has become unable to learn and 
behave properly. Children who learn in school how 
their working ability is influenced by health, acquire 
a good habit for life that of consulting a physician 
when their work falls below their best standard. 

78 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

Whenever an extraordinary effort must be put fortK 
in later life, they will try to have the body ready for 
it; and when in doubt, consult a physician, the 
same as they would have a boiler tested before firing 
up for unusually high pressure. 

The old saying remains true, especially for chronic 
ailments, that the best way to remain well is never 
to be sick, or, in other words, a person who keeps 
himself in good condition is in little danger of becom- 
ing the victim of chronic diseases which, altho ap- 
pearing suddenly, have been prepared by many years 
of indiscretion. Exaggerated virtues have the same 
deleterious effects as vices. The importance of an 
ailment should not be measured by the inconveni- 
ence it causes at the time, but by what may come 
of it four to five years afterward. 

True, there exist diseases, caused by bacteria, 
which the body has difficulty in conquering and Health 
which often destroy life. The best way to deal with J^SSSS 
them is to get out of their way. Efficient health institutions 
departments have succeeded in lowering the mortal- 
ity by keeping in quarantine everything and every- 
body at a safe distance from places where such 
dangerous parasites live, and by destroying them 
wherever possible. Since we know that mosquitoes 
and flies carry parasites, we surely will find means 
of stamping out most cases of typhoid and sleeping 
sickness as already has been done with yellow fever 

79 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

and malaria in many localities formerly made un- 
inhabitable on account of them. 

Medical science has finally begun to prepare sub- 
stances similar to those the body supplies for itself 
to overcome sickness. Physicians have already suc- 
ceeded in finding nature's cure for diphtheria, and 
scientists are working hard to find healing sera for 
other diseases. It needs time and full concentration 
of mind to learn nature's ways. Research institutions 
can achieve reliable results only when research 
workers are sufficiently well paid not to be obliged to 
divide their attention and make money by practising. 

Man is yet in the infancy of his evolution. He 
Sanitary and has so far mastered animals and some of the forces 
^ na ^ure steam, electricity, etc., and has suc- 
ceeded in expressing a somewhat narrow set of 
thoughts and emotions which, for hundreds of 
thousands of years, from the old Egyptians down to 
Ella Wheeler Wilcox or Theodore Roosevelt, relate 
practically to the same subjects, but which neverthe- 
less, differentiate men from other living beings. In 
most other respects the emancipation of man from 
the animal has hardly begun. Reason has not yet 
gained for him independence from the animal side 
of his nature. Most of us use our reason mainly to 
produce for our animal instincts a greater allowance 
of satisfaction. The struggle for food, home, and 
the other sex, absorbs most of the time of the 

80 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

greatest number of people, and in the whole ani- 
mal kingdom, there exists nothing more shocking 
than the necessity we are under of training many 
millions of men (soldiers and police) in the art 
of killing fellow beings, as the only protection 
against destruction at the hands of our own kind. 
The distinctive human qualities of justice to others, 
of unselfish protection of the weak, are legislated, 
preached about, and conspicuously absent from in- 
dividual dealings in which selfishness and sophistry 
knead the conscience into complacent indulgence. 

In such a primitive period of evolution we must 
necessarily have laws for the protection of the weak. 
The bodily weak of past ages and of the animal king- 
dom is represented to-day by the ignorant, the 
woman, and the child. 

Children must be safeguarded by law against the 
ignorance of their own parents and exploiters, who, 
otherwise would make an easy living out of chil- 
dren's lives. The body during growth needs for it- 
self most of the strength it can produce. If the 
strength of adolescence is all spent in oppressive work, 
no reserves will be laid up for the future, and 
such people grow prematurely old and disabled. 
In the same way, a mother can not possibly perform 
at the same time duties in a factory and take care 
of a home and babies.. The State must look out 
for their welfare by means of minimum wages and 
proper working hours, thus providing for the future 
generations and their bearers. 

81 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

Lack of mental resources and an understanding 
city-grown appreciation of nature's incomparable advantages in 
Hotbeds of t be country, combined with an over-appreciation of 

Disease and . ., 

Crime high wages and man-made entertainments as per- 
manent sources of happiness, have made people 
migrate into large cities where they crowd so closely 
that, in the most densely settled districts, twenty 
times more people are sick than in places where 
proper breathing-space is allowed. Bad housing con- 
ditions are hotbeds of crime, immorality, tuber- 
culosis, and infant mortality. They should receive 
the same consideration as Cuba and Panama. Good 
sanitation, proper sewerage, pure food and water, and 
public parks mean a saving for the community, by 
reducing the expense to each individual for sickness 
and the necessity of caring for the disabled as public 
charges. 



Considering differences of constitution, environ- 
Each Person ment, and taste, one should not lay down the same 

Himself U B*ut narrow set ^ ru ^ es f r eacn an( ^ every one. Altho 
subject to the the imagination may pervert in the adult the effect 
^ anv ^ e * or treatment, congenital differences in 
constitutions really exist. This is proven beyond 
the shadow of doubt by observing babies, some of 
whom can stand a variety of food, and exposure to 
colds and infections without injury, while others, 
seemingly just as healthy, will suffer from skin, 
blood, intestinal, nervous, and bone diseases and be- 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

come ready victims of contagious sicknesses whenever 
the least neglect is shown in their care, and especial- 
ly their feeding. Some gain normally in weight 
by taking only two-thirds of the quantity of food 
which others need as a minimum in order to keep 
well and grow. In the same way some adults can 
allow themselves indulgences with impunity, while 
others less fortunately endowed, can enjoy a con- 
tinuity of good health only by following a certain 
regime. For most people it is just as unsafe to 
imitate the exceptionally strong, who remain well in 
spite of an indulgent life, as it is foolish to abide by 
the suggestions of an easily unbalanced neurasthenic 
person, who recommends as a cure-all a vegetarian 
diet because he can not stand meat, or of another 
who advocates living in a kind of colony because 
his own nerves are too sensitive to endure contact 
with the world. By generalizing from a few per- 
sonal experiences, one can not make rules good for 
all mankind. 

For these reasons, I give here the limits of a wide 
field within which the average person should remain 
in order to insure an efficient life. I do not advise 
the kind of meals the average person should eat, 
but merely report what is the least amount of food 
the body should have and the greatest amount it can 
dispose of with safety. I do not set forth how every 
one should exercise; but state why and how much 
the body and mind must be considered, in order to 
keep both harmoniously developed and in a condi- 

83 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

tion to be depended upon at all times. This should 
give every one an opportunity to choose according 
to his personal necessities, resources and tastes. 

For the welfare of the individual, and even more 
so for the race, the mind is of immense importance. 
The spiritual is closely interwoven with the material 
of our body and I begin here with the physical 
care, not because I consider it of more importance, 
but because I have found it to be easier for most 
people to change their manner of eating than their 
manner of thinking, easier to add a walk in the 
morning than to stop worrying. Besides, it is really 
less difficult to be well poised and level headed when 
the liver is in good order and the nerves undis- 
turbed by bodily pain and discomfort. 



84 






VI 



FOOD 

WHAT KIND DOES OUR BODY NEED? 

1. Proof that we spend each year hundreds of millions of 

dollars for food which the body neither wants noi 
needs, and many millions more to rid ourselves of it 
and its consequences. 

2. Food must be appetizing and taken in congenial company 

to do the most good. 

3. What food is expected to do for our body, and what is 

furnished to the body by: 

(a) Starchy food (carbohydrates, like potatoes, 

rice, cereals, etc.). 
(6) Fats (butter, bacon, cream, etc.). 

(c) Proteids (meat, eggs, cheese, etc.). 

Injury done and diseases produced by too 
much proteid foods. 

(d) Mineral salts. 

4. Exceptions to each rule. 
How MUCH AND WHEN TO EAT: 

1. The amount depends to some extent on the individual's 

vitality and manner of living. 

2. The test whether our food is right is eihciency and length 

of life. 

3. The proper food for babies and adolescents. 

4. How to figure out the amount necessary to keep the body 

at its best. 

5. Misleading appetite. 

6. The benefit derived from food is modified by our habits, 

exercise, chewing, etc. 

7. Meal-time and the time to be allowed for each meal. 

8. About coffee, tea, alcohol, tobacco, etc. 
Too FAT? Too THIN? 

CONSTIPATION: CURED WITHOUT MEDICINE OR MEDICAL TREAT- 
MENT. 

85 



VI 
FOOD 

WHAT KIND DOES OUE BODY NEED 

We should not consider a doctor a deep thinker 
who tells us to trust to our likes as a guide for our 
meals. A nation, whose leading men have suc- 
ceeded in liking old, decaying meat, whisky, and to- 
bacco, can hardly be held above a suspicion that 
their appetites have led them astray. 

Tastes can be acquired and are matters of habit 
and geography. In a country where fruit, cereals Minions spent 
and vegetables are abundant, where the sun shines ^ 
every day, the needs and habits must be different us sick 
from those in a country where the weather is cold, 
vegetables are rare, the variety of cereals is small 
and meat is cheap in proportion. Eailroads and 
steamships nowadays bring food-products and cooks 
from all over the world to the centers of population. 
Thus it happens that people in New York, Chicago, 
or San Francisco have a choice in eating like those 
of Berlin, Rome, or Hongkong. All is dependent 
entirely on their financial circumstances and is in- 
dependent of the actual needs of the body. 

It is strange that so few realize that something 
must be fundamentally wrong with the average 

87 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

man's daily food, when we all know that whenever 
any one goes to a physician nine times out of ten 
the doctor's prescription is a change of diet and a 
laxative to remove from the intestines what we have 
put into them. Or the doctor may prescribe medi- 
cines such as iodine, aspirine, salicylates, etc., which 
by increasing the tissue-change, remove from the 
system what already has been assimilated; or medi- 
cine such as iron, phosphates, and other tonics which 
bring into the body what we neglected to give it 
in our meals. 

Carlsbad and other laxative waters and patent 
medicines are in great demand, as also are mineral 
waters, such as Saratoga and Vichy, which latter 
give back to our blood its normal alkali reaction, 
that we change to a sour and unwholesome one by 
eating too much meat and other albuminous food. 
Every year we spend in the United States over 
six hundred and seventy-two millions of dollars for 
food that is not required by the body and at least 
forty-five millions to get rid of it again. This does 
not consider the outlay to doctors, and undertakers, 
nor the loss of time. It should be understood at 
once that the body can make use of only a certain 
amount of food. Any surplus has to go through the 
process of digestion, assimilation, and excretion, all 
of which uses up a tremendous amount of energy 
and produces nothing more than a large bowel 
movement and richer urine. 

Another proof of the common mistakes in diet is the 

88 



THEIR CARE AND CUBE 



difficulty many people have in retaining a decent 
figure. They would dismiss any caretaker who 
should permit horses and cows to grow a belly such 
as they carry around themselves. To be fair, we 
should excuse a few persons, as there exists a kind 
of sickness in which, on account of lack of secretion 
in certain glands, a body forms fat out of the 
stingiest diet. 

It is a pity that every one has not an opportunity 
of seeing for himself the superior moral standard 
and resisting power against infectious diseases of all 
who are rationally fed and reared. As an example, 
we cite the Zeller House in Berlin, an institution for 
the children of drunkards, where, among the progeny 
of the worst kind of parents, for eight years there 
has not been a death, an epidemic, or a serious mis- 
demeanor. 

Only the quantity of the component parts of our 
meals must be rearranged to agree with the demands 
of the body. It is not necessary to give up the 
delicacies of the table. 

A research worker in Russia cut small holes through 
the skin and into the stomach of dogs in order to 
watch what was going on there during digestion. He 
saw that the stomach would make itself ready for 
digestion when the animal saw some favorite food; 
this food would be digested promptly when eaten. 
More nutritious food, but which the animal did not 



Digestion 



of 



Food and 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

like, was much more slowly digested. Digestion 
would stop entirely, no matter how nice the food 
was, if a cat or anything else the dog hated, came 
into its presence. 

These experiments made the doctors think. They 
watched patients in whom, by accident or by reason 
of a surgical operation, a direct view could be had 
of the stomach, and found that food prepared after 
the prescription of a stomach specialist, but disliked 
by the patient, was slowly digested, while other food, 
absolutely against the doctor's scientific theory, but 
enjoyed by the patient and permissible by common 
sense, was promptly taken care of. In the same 
patients they saw, with their own eyes, how the 
digestion slowed down when an uncongenial person 
was present, or when the patient was told some un- 
pleasant news. The quantity of the secreted gastric 
juice and the action of the stomach was directly 
measured during these observations. 

Every one should draw his own conclusions from 
these facts in regard to the importance of a good 
cook and congenial company. 

All that we require in food is that it shall pro- 
what the Body duce for our body, with the least wear of its organs, 
Requ e s d from heat, strength and energy, in order that we may do 
our best work; that it shall leave enough material 
for the repair of worn-out tissue; that it shall pro- 
vide in youth a sufficiency for growth and at all 
times enough reserve for the body to get along with- 

90 



THEIR CAKE AND CURE 

out eating for a couple of weeks, in case of an 
emergency, in sickness or accident. That food should 
add to the pleasures of life, has been dealt with 
previously. 

Only part of the food we take at our meals is 
nutritive; part of it may be considered as wrap- 
pers, and are by-products which the bowels remove. 
The kind and purpose of the nutritive substances 
of our food are: first, carbohydrates (all starchy 
foods, bread, cereals, and potatoes contain them in 
large amounts) ; second, fats (such as cream, butter, 
bacon, fat in meats, oil, etc.) ; third, proteids (found 
in the largest proportion in meat, eggs, and cheese) ; 
fourth, mineral salts (such as phosphate, iron, chlo- 
rid, soda, etc., etc.), which altho containing no 
direct nourishment, are absolutely necessary to life. 
Each of these four substances is demanded by the 
body. A rational diet supplies the proper kind and 
amount of these foodstuffs. 

It has been accepted by all leading scientists that 
the body gains its heat and strength in the most what starchy 



abundant and easiest way from starchy foods (car- * 



for the 
bohydrates). Fat is an excellent heat producer, but Body 

can not be digested in our climate in sufficient 
quantity to produce all the working energy we need. 
Altogether two or three pounds of cereals, vege- 
tables, fruit, bread and one to two and a half ounces 
of fat, constitute an amount of food well tolerated 
by any person who leads an ordinarily hygienic 

91 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

life. This quantity will over-feed and fatten only 
those who eat much meat besides or who do not 
exercise. Some babies and adults have an intoler- 
ance for carbohydrates, which condition is a disease 
and has to be treated as such; they become a 
cause of sickness only if they are unclean, decayed, 
or poisonous. During an epidemic, boiling is the 
only safe means of destroying the bacteria that 
gather on vegetables which thus propagate the dis- 
ease. 

Carbohydrates represent for the body the coal 
what Proteids, which produces heat and power. The proteids (al- 
M^rSffor bumen) which we eat in a concentrated form in 
the Body meat, eggs, and cheese and in small quantities in all 
cereals, are the material from which the greatest 
part of the body is built and are just as unfit to 
give strength as iron, from which a boiler is built, 
is unfit as its firing material. But for many years 
the conclusion was that because our muscles are 
flesh (proteids) the eating of meat (which is com- 
posed mainly of proteids) must produce strength. 

The new-born baby weighs on an average from 
seven to eight pounds. At the end of the sixteenth 
year the average weight of a person is 110 pounds. 
The normal increase each year is on an average 
about seven pounds, or each day ten grams, which 
means that two-thirds of a tablespoonful of albumen 
is daily needed for growth. The quantity of pro- 
teids needed for repair of worn tissue is easily com- 

9? 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

puted when we know the amount a person eats and 
have deducted the amount of component parts ex- 
creted as not needed. 

Exact observation proves, beyond any shadow of a 
doubt, that the body can not make use of more than 
four to six tablespoonsful of pure proteid matter per 
day. It is certain that many chronic diseases arise 
from the eating of too much meat or proteid matter. 

The waste of proteids is removed from the body 
by the kidneys. The kidneys are built to take care why Does 
of only six or seven tablespoonfuls of proteids daily ^^ JJ** 
and can not stand larger quantities without wearing sick? 
out prematurely and falling to pieces at the age of 
fifty, when parts of the kidney filter will be found 
in the urine, in the form of casts; then material good 
for the body is filtered out and much that does harm 
retained. These are the symptoms of kidney-dis- 
eases so common to-day in our middle-aged well-to-do 
population. When the kidneys once become diseased, 
it is only a short time before the heart will become 
sick, also. 

The quantity of albumen needed by the system is 
quickly absorbed from the intestines. The remainder 
is more slowly absorbed, and having time to putrefy, 
makes an ill-smelling sewer of the digestive tract. 
Then from the bowels putrid matter is taken into the 
blood, which becomes unhealthy, and a fine soil for 
vicious bacteria. Bile is the intestinal disinfectant, 
but the liver is prepared to deliver quantities suffi- 
cient only for six or seven tablespoonfuls of proteids. 

93 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

Biliousness is caused by eating more proteids than 1 
the body really needs except in cases where the 
body has an aversion to certain articles of foodj 
which is called an idiosyncrasy and may also cause 
biliousness. 

"We are so constituted as to stand a certain amount 
of waste in the blood. But if the amount becomes 
too large the waste settles, especially in the form of 
uric acid, which is likely to produce a chronic form 
of inflammation in any organ, or to act like a rough 
slack between the joints and to cause friction, where 
normally everything would move smoothly. This 
condition is called uric acid diathesis, or gout, which 
is a common cause to-day of discomfort, pain, and 
periodical or permanent unfitness for work. 

Sicknesses that are helped by a reduction of al- 
buminous (meat and egg) foods are, first of all, 
diseases of the kidneys, heart, and arteries, gout, 
rheumatism, headache, dizziness, and chronic inflamma- 
tion. In some people the by-products of digested 
albumen destroy the red blood corpuscles. Nervous- 
ness, especially when accompanied by insomnia and 
the very uncomfortable emotional and sexual over- 
irritability, is decidedly helped by a so-called low 
proteid diet. A reduction of albuminous food to the 
normal amount, or less, enables medicines to act 
quickly, when, with a plentiful meat diet, they had 
had no effect. Every teaspoonful of albumen more 
than is necessary absorbs during its digestion and 
excretion energy which is not only squandered, 

94 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

but taken away from one's general working ability. 

One may recommend a surplus of meat to a per- 
son who wants to be stimulated; but for the average 
man in daily life, needing continuity in thought and 
action, moderate quantities are preferable. It is im- 
possible to make a weak person strong by giving him 
an excess of albumen (meat), as, after a few days, 
the body simply throws off the surplus, or circulates 
it as a harmful dead weight. The only exceptions 
lie with underfed people; after a long disease one 
may take as much as ten tablespoonfuls a day until 
one is restored to the normal. 

Vegetarians prove that man can get all the pro- 
teids he needs from the vegetable kingdom. With 
very few exceptions most of our geniuses were mod- 
erate meat-eaters. Not all should be forced to de- 
rive building material for their bodies from the same 
sources. There is a continual cycle between the ani- 
mal and the vegetable kingdom. Grass and grain are 
eaten by cattle. Men eat the flesh of cattle and 
their excretions from lungs and bowels fertilize the 
air and the ground for grass and grain. There exist 
peculiarities of taste and inheritance. Some feel best 
by taking proteids as meat, others by going back to 
its source, the vegetable kingdom, and many really 
need for vitality raw uncooked food, in which the 
energy of life, the power of growth, has not been 
destroyed by cooking. Frequently some foods, toler- 
ated for many years by a person, have to be omitted 
from further use, as the body has been saturated to 

95 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

its limit by certain of the component parts and is 
poisoned by continuing them. 

The last, and a very important ingredient of meals, 
The vital is mineral matter: phosphorus, iron, chlorin, so- 



importance of^mm, calcium, etc., without which the body would 
Matter flap together as a flabby and boneless mass. We lose 
every day more than two tablespoonfuls of mineral 
matter which must be replenished by what we absorb 
from our food, especially from vegetables. A right 
amount of mineral salt is vital to the life of each 
cell. Every living tissue, except bone, becomes water- 
soaked and dies in distilled water. In water to 
which has been added one teaspoonful of salt to the 
pint, animal tissue gets along almost as well as in 
the circulating blood, and grows like the seedling of 
a plant, at least for some time. A little too much 
or too little of the different salts stops the growth 
at once. 

The general poverty that prevailed in past cen- 
turies still exercises its influence over the masses so 
that they believe that much helps much. Everybody 
remembers how, a few years ago, large quantities of 
salt were taken as a preserver of life. This was 
wrong. Some salt is necessary, but too much makes 
the blood too ready to coagulate, overstimulates the 
heart and, to a marked degree, the nervous system; 
it disturbs the exchange of material between cells 
and blood, and finally imposes on the kidneys un- 
necessary work in excreting it. If more salt than 

96 



THEIE CAEE AND CURE 

normal remains in the body, it attracts water in the 
same way as when it stands on the table, and makes 
people with weak kidneys dropsical, who, by leaving 
salt out of their meals, may be cured as if by magic. 
A quantity necessary to take from meat and vege- 
tables the flat taste is sufficient to supply to the 
body all the salt needed. In a household having a 
competent cook, salt should never be needed on the 
dining table. 

We can form the best idea of the decided influ- 
ence salt has on the body when we remember that 
physicians inject a salt solution under the skin in 
order to stimulate the heart when it is in danger 
of collapse; that they inject a five per cent, solu- 
tion into a vein in order to make the blood more 
quickly coagulate and thus better able to close a 
bleeding blood-vessel. Epileptics have far fewer 
seizures when their food contains little salt. 

A certain amount of phosphates is needed for 
the body, especially for the nerves and bones, but 
too much does harm. Our food must contain some 
iron, but if we take too much the digestion suffers. 
We are everywhere imprest with the importance of 
right proportions. For babies a little too much of 
the very best food prevents a normal growth and 
makes them just as constipated as when they are 
starved. Too much fat is likely to give them skin 
diseases; too much albumen and salt, nervousness; 
an insufficient quantity of lime and phosphates, 
rickets and spasms. 

97 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

Experience with children proves further that what 
may be good for thousands may be bad in one very 
exceptional case. The great mortality among chil- 
dren has decreased since pasteurized milk has been 
generally used, but there exist perfectly sound chil- 
dren who become seriously, even fatally, ill with a 
breaking up of bones and bursting of blood-vessels 
when fed upon it exclusively (Barlow's Disease). 
Such seemingly hopeless sick babies recover inside of 
one or two months when given uncooked or mother's 
milk. Grown up people also may be made sick and 
miserable by limiting them to milk and eggs, tho 
such a diet will make others strong and healthy. 

HOW MUCH, WHAT, AND WHEN TO EAT 

It must be remembered that food is a most im- 
portant, but not the only important factor in the 
production of health and life-energy. Constitution, 
vitality, exercise, the method of breathing and chew- 
ing the food increase or lower the benefits we de- 
rive from meals and must be considered when form- 
ing an opinion of the effect of diet. The body can 
produce approximately the same amount of heat 
from foodstuffs as that gained by scientists when ex- 
perimenting with them in a test-tube; but this does 
not prove that the body always does so, as it does not 
act with the same precision as an engine. Vitality 
of the living cell is the deciding factor, a variable 
quantity, and is not to be figured out once for all 
and always with a test-tube. 

98 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

Some normal babies, for exactly the same amount 
of body-weight and growth, need only two-thirds of 
the amount of food that others equally normal need. 
During change of life the body stores up fat, under 
exactly the same conditions of life and with the same 
amount of food, which previously kept the figure 
slender. The trained guide and the seasoned athlete 
get along with much less to eat than a beginner. In 
certain sicknesses without any rise of temperature, 
young girls starve with meals which would keep a 
prize-fighter in condition. According to laboratory 
tests and the experience of others, thousands of 
people should have starved on a diet which, on the 
contrary, kept them hale and hearty for seventy 
years and longer. 

It does not prove that a regime is best when we 
can, or when we like to, live on it for months and 
years. The only proof that the diet is right is the 
length of life and the general efficiency. 

Scientists have taken as a standard for the kind 
and amount of food needed the quantities a healthy 
man would choose and the body dispose of at rest, 
or at light or at heavy work, but without con- 
sidering previous and later life-histories. This, as 
any one can see, may be entirely misleading. 

The rules we recommend in regard to the quan- 
tity and composition of meals have been followed, 
with slight modifications, by the men and women 
who have lived the most efficient and longest 

99 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

lives. It was a triumph of science when Professor 
Chittenden found those rules to agree with the re- 
sults of exact scientific research. Living examples 
and scientific findings combined are sufficient to sub- 
stantiate the claim, that the regime here recommended 
furnishes to the body the greatest efficiency and 
comfort with the least wear and tear on the organs. 

At the beginning it must be forced upon every 
Babyhood and mother that the care of the baby decides the health 
Childhood an( j charter O f the man, as far as it is possible to 
do during its own lifetime. Until the tenth month, 
every day that the baby receives mother's milk in- 
creases his resisting power against sickness not only 
for the time being, but for life. Four breast feed- 
ings during the day and one at eleven P.M. and 
another at six A.M. give far less trouble than con- 
tinual anxiety about nursemaids and cows. While 
the bottle-fed baby is always apt to suffer from in- 
digestion and nervousness, the breast-fed child is 
practically safe from sickness. 

Of fifteen babies who die, one is breast-fed; the 
other fourteen are bottle-fed. Of one hundred 
sick-calls that the average infant-specialist makes, 
ninety-eight are to bottle-fed and only two to breast- 
fed babies. This proportion would be even more in 
favor of mother's milk, if abominable housing con- 
ditions did not murder the babies of the poor by 
thousands in large cities. 

All normal mothers are able, as has been absolutely 

100 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

proven, to feed babies from the breast for a short time 
at least. Only mothers who are abnormal also in other 
directions make an exception to this rule. The out- 
side appearance of the breast does not signify any- 
thing. Elsewhere mention is made of a woman who, by 
simple desire to nurse a baby, made her breast secrete 
milk. On the other hand, there is no doubt that fear 
of not being properly fitted to act as a mother, and 
overanxiety interferes with the secretions. 

When a mother has not sufficient milk entirely 
to nourish her child, adding of two or three bottles 
of correctly mixed and prepared cow's milk, is pref- 
erable to exclusive feeding of animal milk, which, 
tho it contains food, has not the specific substance 
and life energy which will conquer the sickness to 
which man is subject. Every animal has in its body, 
ready for action, substances which fight the diseases 
that are peculiar to its kind. Cow's milk contains 
substances to combat the diseases of a calf, not 
those of a baby, which are of a different sort. 

At no time should an infant receive more than a 
tenth of its weight in a day as nourishment, and at 
no time more than one quart of milk a day and, 
from the seventh month, a little farina, rice, spinach, 
scraped carrots, apples, etc., should be added. 

To believe that every time a baby cries it is 
hungry would be as logical as to surmise that adults 
are only uncomfortable when they have not had 
enough to eat; unfortunately, there are many other 
things in the world to make us miserable. 

101 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

General good health, cheerfulness, and a steady, 
tho slow, increase in weight, are signs that the baby 
is properly fed. Rapid gain in weight, causing 
a likeness to a fat little Cupid, shows a type of in- 
fantile beauty upholstered with plenty of water but 
little sound muscle. 

Up to the tenth year it is altogether safest and 
best to feed the child on vegetables, cereals, fruit, 
two to four glasses of milk, whole-grain bread and a 
small piece of chicken, or other light meat as a 
delicacy occasionally. With this kind of diet the 
nerves will be steadied and the body well prepared 
to grow and conquer the infectious diseases to which 
every child is necessarily exposed. 

A calory is accepted as the measuring standard 
for the heat-giving capacity of food. Just as we 
tnat a person needs so many yards of 



Food one's cloth for a suit of clothes, or an engine 25 horse- 
power to drive an automobile of a certain size and 
speed, so we say that a human body weighing 150 
pounds needs between 2,400 and 3,000 calories in 24 
hours, or 16 to 20 calories for each pound of its 
weight in order to produce its normal amount of heat 
and strength. One gram of albumen, or of carbo- 
hydrates, gives four, one gram of fat, nine calories. 
To illustrate the size of a gram we might say that 
one teaspoonful will hold, of sugar, for instance, four 
grams. 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

From the habits of people who have lived the 
most satisfactory and longest lives as well as from 
figures of Professor Chittenden, one infers that the 
average person should not eat more than sufficient 
to furnish 17 calories for each pound of his weight; 
people over 45 years of age are better off with 15 
or less; for excessive work, 20 may be permitted 
as a high limit. This should leave an appetite and 
comfortable room in the stomach for the low calory 
vegetables, fruit, etc., etc.; first, because they pro- 
vide the mineral salts so necessary for the body's 
economy; second, because we bring into our body 
with raw vegetables, etc., the power of life and 
growth which, necessarily is destroyed by cooking; 
third, because vegetables prevent excessive putrefica- 
tion and fermentation (bad breath, sour stomach, 
gases, etc.), that are so common and bad for the 
health and one's comfort. 

It is obvious that the body requires in hot weather 
a certain amount of food to keep its organs going 
and itself fit to work. A locomotive needs, on the 
hottest day, steam to pull a train sixty miles an 
hour, but, as it is easier to make steam in hot 
weather, when much heat is not continually lost to 
the outside, the firing of less coal is necessary in the 
summer than in winter; for the same reason we 
should decrease the amount of food eaten in summer, 
but it is a mistake to cut the supply down too much. 

No person, irrespective of his size and occupation, 

103 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

needs more than 20 calories for each pound of his 
weight. People whose brains and nerves act like 
an old clumsy steam-engine may fill up with 4,500 
or more and still produce less than better developed 
ones with 1,800 calories; which explains why we are 
told that men doing hard labor need more than 5,000 
calories a day; while, in truth, this is only a sign 
of their inferior constitutions. We will almost al- 
ways find that the more intelligent and refined man 
can do the same amount of work by eating half as 
much. 

Nobody should be afraid of what he eats, or 
weigh his food daily, which is a habit peculiar to 
self-centered hypochondriacs. We advise checking 
once, say on a Sunday, the quantity one eats. This 
check will give an estimate as to whether one eats 
too much or too little and will often offer an ex- 
planation as to why one is not well. 

In the following table will be found an illustration 
of how Professor Chittenden checked off his meals and 
figured out how many calories he took in one day. 
Every one can do likewise for himself from the second 
table, which gives the different food-stuffs and their 
caloric values. When we eat two ounces, equal to ap- 
proximately four tablespoonfuls, of rice for breakfast, 
we look in the list how many calories they contain 
and write it down, and do the same for anything and 
everything we eat that day. After supper we may 
sum up the calories ; the amount divided by the num- 

104 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

her of pounds in our body-weight will give the 
number of calories we took for each pound. Pro- 
fessor Chittenden's dietary for one day, as given in 
his book, "The Nutrition of Man," is as follows: 

TABLE I 
BEEAKFAST 

PROTEID CALORIES 

GRAMS 

One shredded wheat biscuit 3.15 106 

(30 grams = 1 oz.) 
One teacup of cream 3.12 206 

(120 grams 4 ozs.) 
One German water roll 5.07 165 

(57 grams = 2 ozs.) 
Two 1-inch cubes of butter 0.38 284 

(38 grams 1 oz.) 
Three-fourths cup of coffee 0.26 

(100 grams = 3 1-3 ozs) 
One-fourth teacup of cream 0.78 51 

(30 grams = 1 oz.) 
One lump of sugar 38 

(10 grams = 1-3 oz.) 

12.76 850 

(One ounce is approximately 2 tablespoonfuls.) 

LUNCH 

PROTEID CALORIES 

GRAMS 

One teacup of home-made chicken soup . 5.25 60 

(144 grams = 5 ozs.) 
One Parker-House roll 3.38 110 

(38 grams = 1 1-3 ozs.) 

105 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 



LUNCH Continued 

PROTEID 
GRAMS 

Two 1-inch cubes of butter 0.38 

(38 grams = 1 1-3 ozs.) 
One slice of lean bacon 2.14 

(10 grams = 1-3 oz.) 
One small baked potato 1.53 

(60 grams = 2 ozs.) 
One rice croquette 3.42 

(90 grams = 3 ozs.) 
Two ounces of maple syrup 

(60 grams = 2 ozs.) 

One cup of tea with one slice of lemon 

One lump of sugar 

(10 grams = 1-3 oz.) 



DINNER 



16.10 

PROTEID 
GRAMS 

3.25 



One teacup of cream of corn soup . 

(130 grams = 4 1-3 ozs.) 
One Parker-House roll 3.38 

(38 grams = 1 oz.) 
One 1-inch cube of butter 0.19 

(19 grams = 2-3 oz.) 
One small lamb chop, broiled, lean meat . 8.15 

(30 grams = 1 oz.) 
One teacup of mashed potatoes .... 3.34 

(167 grams = 5 ozs.) 
Apple-celery-lettuce salad with mayonnaise 

dressing 0.62 

(50 grams = 1 2-3 ozs.) 
One Boston cracker, split, 2 inches in diam. 1.32 

(1 1-2 grams = 1-3 oz.) 



CALORIES 

284 

65 

55 
150 
166 

38 
928 

CALORIES 

72 
110 
142 

92 
175 

75 

47 



106 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 



DINNEE Continued 

One-half inch cube of American cheese 

(12 grams = 1-3 oz.) 
One-half cup of bread pudding . 

(85 grams = 3 ozs.) 

One demi-tasse of coffee 

One lump of sugar 

(10 grams 1-3 oz.) 



PROTEID 
GRAMS 

3.25 
5.25 



CALORIES 



50 



150 



38 



29.20 



951 



The grand totals for the day, with this dietary, 
amount to 58.07 grams of proteid and 2,729 calories. 
It is, of course, understood that these figures are to 
be considered as only approximately correct, but the 
illustration will suffice, perhaps, to give a clearer 
understanding of the actual quantities of food in- 
volved in a daily ration approaching the require- 
ments for a man of 70 kilogram body-weight. 

TABLE II 

The Quantities of Ordinary Foods which yield 100 Calories with the 
Distribution of the Heat Value between Protein, 

Fat, and Carbohydrates. 
(Prepared by Irving Fisher.) 



MATERIALS 


Weight of 
Food 
Yielding 
100 Calories 


Percentage of 
Total Calory 
Value of 
Protein, Fat, or 
Carbohydrate 


Quantity 


Cooked Meats: 
Chicken 
Beef, boiled, lean 
Beef, roast, fat. 
Sirloin 


Grms. 

90 
62 
32 
40 
34 


Oz. 

3.2 
2.2 
1.2 
1.4 
1.2 


P. 

79 
90 
25 
31 
35 


F. 

21 
10 

75 
69 
65 


0. 


Ordinary serving 
Large serving 
Small serving 
Small serving 
Small serving 


Mutton, boiled. 



107 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 
TABLE II Continued 



MATERIALS 


Weight of 
Food 
Yielding 
100 Calories 


Percentage of 
Total Calory 
Value of 
Protein, Fat, o* 
Carbohydrate 


Quantity 


Ham, boiled 
Ham, boiled, fat 
Bacon . 


Grms. 

32 
27 
15 

57 
100 

140 
255 

30 
360 
12.5 
22 
59 
49 

38 
43 
27 
28 

87 

75 
108 
102 
86 
310 
505 
178 

75 
40 
14 
15 

28 
31 
32 
31 
140 
100 
206 
94 
38 
270 
760 
430 
28 
24 


Oz. 

1.1 
1.0 
0.5 

2.0 
3.6 

4.9 
9.4 

1.1 

13.0 
0.4 
0.8 
2.1 
1.7 

1.3 
1.5 
1 

1 
3.1 

2.6 
3.8 
3.6 
3 
11 
18 
6.3 

2.7 
1.4 
0.5 
0.5 

.1 
.1 
.1 
.8 
3.5 
7.3 
3.3 
1.3 
9.4 
27 
15 
1 
0.9 


P. 

28 
19 
6 

50 
10 

19 
37 

10 
15 
15 
25 
.32 
5 

13 
9 
15 
9 

10 

8 
1 
11 
11 

20 
25 
25 

21 
10 
10 
13 

2 
5 
3 
3 
5 
5 
3 
2 
5 
6 
6 
15 



F. 

72 
81 
94 

50 

1 

32 

7 

23 
10 
99.5 
73 

68 

87 

6 

7 
5 
1 

1 

13 

1 
1 
1 
8 
14 
3 

18 
20 
86 

77 

7 


C. 

*89 

29 
56 

67 

75 

f 

81 

87 
80 
90 
89 

79 

98 
88 
88 
72 
61 
72 

61 

70 
4 
10 

91 
95 
97 

88 
80 
90 
90 
93 
63 
91 
88 
69 
97 
100 


Ordinary serving 
Small serving 
Ordinary serving 

Ordinary serving 
1 dozen 

Small glass 
IV 2 glass 

1% glass 
2 glasses 

1% cu. in. 
1 large egg 

Thick slice 
Thick slice 

Ordinary serving 

Small serving 
Ordinary serving 
Large serving 
1 good sized 

2 servings 

3 nuts 
8 almonds 

3 large dates 
1 large fig 
3 large prunes 

1 large banana 
2 large apples 

1-3 ordinary serving 
1 very large 

4 ordinary size 
3 teaspoonsful 
1 % lumps 


Uncooked: 
Mackerel . 


Oysters 


Dairy Products: 
Milk 


Milk, skimmed. 
Milk, condensed 
and sweetened 
Whey . 


Butter 


Cheese 


Eggs . 




Cereals, Vegetables, 
Nuts and Fruit 
Bread, white. . 
Bread, brown.. 
Wheat flour. . . 
Rice 


Rice, boiled... 
Cream rice pud 
ding 


Tapioca, cooked 
Potatoes, boiled 
Potatoes, baked. 
Cabbage . 


Lettuce 
Peas . 


Beans, tinned, 
baked 


Chestnuts . 


Brazil nuts. . . . 
Almonds 


Dates(edible por- 
tion) 


Figs, dried. . 


Prunes, dried . . . 
Raisins . 




9 
15 
5 
7 
5 
32 
3 
6 
16 
.525 


Grapes 


Bananas . 


Apples 
Apples, baked 
Apple pie .... 
Oranges 


Water melon . 
Tomatoes . . . 
Marmalade . . 
Sugar 



108 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

APPEOXIMATE NUTEITIVE VALUE PEE OUNCE OF 
FOOD STUFFS 

PROTEIN FAT C. H. CAL. 

Beef, roasted, as served .... 7 2 ... 46 

Mutton, game, chicken, etc. . . 6 1 .... 33 

Boiled fish 4.5 1 ... 27 

Eaw meats, scraped 4 Trace ... 16 

Milk puddings, blanc mange, 

custard, etc 1.2 3.2 4 31.6 

Boiled suet puddings .... 1.7 3.6 14.2 96 

Boiled potatoes 0.6 ... 6 264 

Eggs 6 4 ... 60 

Bread and cake 2.3 ... 14 65.2 

Butter, dripping, oleomargarine, etc. ... 22 ... 198 

Milk 1 1.2 1.5 20.8 

The third table which follows is also copied from 
Chittenden's "Nutrition of Man." It helps one to 
form a proper estimate of the proteids in food, which 
we know do harm to the kidneys, heart, and whole 
body, if eaten habitually in excess, or more than 
two to three ounces daily. This table makes it strik- 
ingly evident that altho meat and eggs furnish the 
material for repair of wear and tear, they give in 
proportion few calories to keep up the work of our 
body. For instance, half a pound of lean beef, with 
two ounces of albumen, gives all that is needed for 
repair-material, but only 308 calories, when 2,000 
more, at least, must be supplied to the body for 
working-power. These 2,000 calories we must obtain, 
as much as possible, from foods which do not con- 

109 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

tain proteids, but, as almost all cereals and vege- 
tables do contain some, it is wiser to be satisfied at 
a dinner with a quarter of a pound of steak, to 
be certain that we do not overwork our digestive 
and excretory organs by eating a surplus of pro- 
teids in the rest of the meal. 

TABLE III 

Sixty grains of proteid are contained in 

FUEL VALUE 
CALORIES 

One-half pound of fresh, lean beef, loin .... 308 

Nine hen's eggs 720 

Four-fifths pound of sweetbread 660 

Three-fourths pound of fresh liver 432 

Seven-eighths pound of lean smoked bacon .... 1,820 

Three-fourths pound of halibut steak 423 

One-half pound of salt codfish, boneless .... 245 
Two and one-fifth pounds of oysters, solid .... 506 
One-half pound of American pale cheese .... 1,027 
Four pounds of whole milk (two quarts) .... 1,300 

Five-sixths pound of unbooked oatmeal 1,550 

One and one-fourth pounds of shredded wheat . . . 2,125 

One pound of uncooked macaroni 1,665 

One and one-third pounds of white wheat bread . . 1,520 

One and one-fourth pounds of crackers 2,381 

One and two-thirds pounds of flaked rice .... 2,807 

Three-fifths pound of dried beans 963 

One and seven-eighths pounds of baked beans . . . 1,125 

One-half pound of dried peas 827 

One and eleven-twefths pounds of potato chips . . 5,128 

Two-thirds pound of almonds 2,020 

Two-fifths pound of pine nuts, pignolias .... 1,138 

110 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

FUEL VALUE 
CALORIES 

One and two-fifths pounds of peanuts 3,584 

Ten pounds of bananas, edible portion 4,600 

Ten pounds of grapes 4,500 

Eleven pounds of lettuce 990 

Fifteen pounds of prunes 5,550 

Thirty-three pounds of apples 9,570 

The following list gives food-stuffs graded accord- 
ing to the amount of useful mineral salts (iron, etc., 
etc.), they contain: 

Spinach, 
Asparagus, 
Yoke of egg, 
Beef, 
Lettuce, 



cherries, 
Almonds, 
Strawberries, 
Carrots, 
White beans, 
Black cherries, 
Green peas, 
Potatoes, 
Grapes. 

As pointed out by Professor Chittenden, the figures 
are only approximately correct, because of the differ- 
ent qualities. Practically, it does not do any harm 
if 100 to 200 calories more or less are taken daily. 
The body possesses enough elasticity to stand such 
little differences with impunity; but, when loaded 
down daily by a thousand or more calories in excess 
of the working-power of its organs, it soon acts as 

111 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

tho its machinery were clogged and breaks down 
thirty to forty years too early. 

The tabulated figures show clearly that if we had 
to live on meat alone we should have to eat two 
and a half pounds of it daily to furnish the body 
with calories enough for the production of normal 
heat and strength, and that, on the other hand, we 
should have to eat approximately two pounds of 
potatoes to furnish the necessary proteids for repair 
of wear and tear. A diet composed of meat, beans, 
or peas, cheese or eggs on one side, and cereals and 
other vegetables on the other, is the only one by 
which we can give to the body everything it needs 
in the right proportion, without causing to the sys- 
tem an exhausting amount of absolutely unneces- 
sary work. 

The most scientifically selected meals will be of 
little value, however, with an otherwise unwholesome 
life; absorbed food goes to places where a demand 
has been created by consumption through work. 
Proper food can make a man efficient only when he 
uses his brain and muscles. Those who use neither 
and live like cattle, will remain in that class in 
spite of an admirable diet. 

As hunger makes everything taste good, people 

Misleading who are not accustomed to the diet here suggested 

Appetite j ia( j Better k e gj n m eals with vegetables, fruit, and a 

carbohydrate and have meat served last. This makes 

112 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

the naturally wholesome and most necessary food 
taste good and lessens the acquired appetite for an 
unnecessarily large amount of meat. 

The habit of eating at certain times makes the 
stomach secrete its juices at certain hours when we 
feel that gnawing sensation called appetite. The 
only part of the anatomy that most people con- 
sistently and regularly train is the stomach; it ac- 
quires a habit of working morning, noon, and even- 
ings; and it is most pleased with a piece of meat, 
which absorbs the secretions best. This kind of 
hunger is misleading, and does' not prove that the 
body really needs meat. 

The secretions which digest food come in con- 
tact with each particle only when food is thoroughly Masticatei 
masticated. Saliva digests carbohydrates. Four- 
fifths of all our food can be made ready in the 
mouth for absorption and consumption in the in- 
testines. This makes us, to a certain extent, inde- 
pendent of the stomach, which is not subject to our 
will, while we can make the salivary glands work 
and digest for us whenever we want simply by chew- 
ing our food. In all stomach troubles, except in 
bleeding, Fletcherized food of any kind is permitted 
and no other diet prescription necessary. Fletcher- 
ized food never irritates mechanically; it is four- 
fifths digested in the mouth and can not sour in 
the stomach, as the saliva makes it sufficiently 
alkaline. In proportion to its weight, it is of 

113 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

greater value as a heat- and strength-producer, than 
less thoroughly masticated food. In it there is prac- 
tically no loss, as particles, otherwise unabsorbable 
and indigestible, are easily taken care of when in 
an extremely fine macerated and thoroughly salivated 
state. People who at all times follow Mr. Fletcher's 
suggestions improve their chances for a long and 
healthy life. Fletcherizing means to masticate the 
food so long that it disappears from the mouth by 
gliding down the oesophagus into the stomach in 
small quantities, contrary to the usual method of 
being swallowed in almost mouthful amounts at a 
time. Every thing that can not be Fletcherized 
should be removed from the mouth, as not fit to 
enter the stomach. 

The importance of good working teeth is self-evi- 
dent. Old people should not allow themselves to be 
tempted by artificial teeth to eat too much. Nature 
suggested soft foods when it left babies and old 
people without teeth. 

The least time taken for meals should be thirty 
Meal Time and minutes for breakfast, thirty for lunch and forty- 



On account of the energy needed in mastication 
and during the first stages of digestion, a tired per- 
son, who has no strength left, can not digest well. 
A heavy meal consumes in digestion vital energy, 
so that oe's working efficiency immediately after a 
meal is lessened. These physiological facts suggest 

114 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

that we take of the entire quantity of our daily; 
food: thirty-five per cent, for breakfast, when there 
is a surplus of strength left from the night's rest; 
fifty per cent, for the evening meal, which should be 
taken after half an hour's rest from daily work, 
with nothing of importance left to attend to after- 
ward; fifteen per cent, for a light lunch, which 
does not demand or absorb much energy and does 
not interfere with work before or immediately after 
it is taken. 

Liquids of any kind are better drunk between 
than with meals. "When a meal consists of vege- Liquid with 
tables and meat, a glass of water, or two glasses, Me ^ Coffee 
will not be too much to drink. Water, however, 
adds too much weight when soup and coffee are a 
part of the menu. Broth does not contain any body- 
building or strength-giving materials. A cupful may 
be taken as a stimulant, as it starts a sluggish 
stomach into action. Thick soups are nourishing in 
proportion to their ingredients. 

Every kind of spice that can be kept without dis- 
comfort on the tongue may be relied on as harmless 
to the stomach. "When it irritates the mouth, it 
does the same to the stomach, the only difference be- 
ing that we do not feel it in the stomach. Food con- 
taining too many highly seasoned spices also irri- 
tates the kidneys. 

Coffee and tea are stimulants which work like a 
115 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

whip applied to a horse, in not giving strength, but 
pushing us on to greater effort. They may be al- 
lowed to people of sluggish temperament, for whom 
they lift up, temporarily, the nervous energy to 
normal. Those suffering from stomach, heart, kid- 
ney, and nervous troubles should avoid coffee and tea, 
as, by stimulating the organs to quicker action, they 
produce hyperacidity of the stomach, palpitation of 
the heart, an increased flow of urine, and an exag- 
geration of already present nervous symptoms. They 
may all be employed, with discretion, in sickness 
for the benefit of the patient. 

Some prohibitionists have tried to prove by ex- 
Alcohol periments that small quantities of alcohol do, in 
proportion, the same harm as large quantities. They 
have practically failed, however, as the moral, bodily, 
and mental standards of healthy people have not 
been lowered when they habitually took a quart of 
beer, two ounces of whisky, or a bottle of wine, daily, 
all through life. The average longer life of tee- 
totalers may be accounted for by their having taken 
better care of themselves in every direction. Up to 
this time, prohibitionists have been unable to cite as 
examples, in favor of absolute abstinence, any Aris- 
totle, Alexander, Caesar, Michelangelo, Shakespeare, 
Goethe, Byron, or Wagner. Napoleon said he re- 
spected a man who could not take one drink as little 
as he did a man who took too many; neither could 
become a general in his army. 

116 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

The bad effects of small doses of alcohol show in 
people who are not altogether sound; their inability 
to stand liquor is almost always associated with 
lack of stability in other directions. Prisons and 
asylums are filled with people who use liquor; this 
is not because they use it, but because they can 
not stand it; and they can not stand it because they 
are lacking in moral and mental stability. The fact 
that they are so strongly affected by alcohol is a 
symptom of inferiority, but not an indication that 
alcohol caused their inferiority, except when born 
of parents who were drunkards; for such people 
liquor becomes an aggravating cause, as it takes away 
what little stability they possess. Patients should 
be advised against the habitual* use of liquor for the 
following reasons: 

1. All alcoholic liquors rush the blood to those 

parts of the brain which are under greatest pressure why Patients 
and are likely to be overfilled with blood in the Should^ Avoid 
present day's intellectual struggle for existence. Al- 
tho a moderate use of liquor alone would not do any 
injury, its combination with hard mental work in- 
creases pressure on the most heavily taxed brain- 
centers. 

2. There is hardly any one to-day who is not com- 
plaining of nervousness especially that kind of nerv- 
ousness which consists in inability to control one's 
feelings and actions, at all times, with reason and 
good judgment. The seat of self-control and sound 
criticism of one's own actions is the same part of the 

117 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

brain which is the scene of the first attack by alco- 
hol; that part of the brain which inhibits to give in 
to one's animal passions is the one that is paralyzed 
soonest. A nervous person using liquor is likely to do 
things which he would not do with his brain unin- 
fluenced by alcohol. Only a perfectly sound person, 
who has self-control to spare, may drink liquor 
without risk of ever doing something he may regret 
later. Those who have no surplus of self-control will 
do better never to touch it. Many men have ac- 
quired sexual diseases and many women have fallen 
after a couple of glasses of whisky or wine had 
weakened their self-control. 

The predilection of alcohol for certain parts of 
the brain may seem peculiar to the layman; never- 
theless, many substances show a predilection for cer- 
tain parts of our anatomy, just as certain colors are 
absorbed by some tissue cells and not by others, a 
fact we use daily in staining microscopical slides and 
[bacteria. 

Every busy physician knows people who never 
touched liquor until they began taking a drink to 
please a friend, husband, or wife and who finished as 
incurable, totally demoralized, drunkards. To urge 
another to drink is as foolish as to rock a boat or 
to throw burning matches around. It is impossible 
to estimate the consequences. 

The small number of Mohammedans suffering from 
softening of the brain, which is a (para) syphilitic 
disease, is worth mentioning. Altho there is a great 

118 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

preponderance of Mohammedans in the Turkish Em- 
pire, yet there occur many more cases of paresis 
among Christians and Jews than among Mohamme- 
dans. Alcohol favors the development of the worst 
consequences of syphilis. 

It is almost superfluous to mention the delete- 
rious effect of large doses of alcohol on liver, stomach, 
nerves, kidney, brain, etc. The habitual drunkard 
can hardly ever reform into a moderate drinker, and 
a periodical drunkard never can. The most of them 
have an over-susceptibility to alcohol. The first 
drink will be enough to kill, along with their sorrows, 
all their good intentions. Their attempt at godliness 
is drowned in the first glass and only the devil 
remains. 

In sickness, e. g., diabetes, pneumonia, or heart 
disease liquor may save life, if given at the right 
time in proper quantities. Patients with weak hearts 
often cultivate the habit of taking several high- 
balls during the day as stimulants. Without being 
really stronger, they feel better afterward, and they 
invite premature breakdown by overtaxing their 
strength. On account of a defective heart no one 
needs to give up a glass of wine or beer, if he has 
been accustomed to it all through life. 

It has been proven, without doubt, that tobacco 
may cause hardening of the blood-vessels, angina, Tobacco 
and other consequences of an impaired blood-supply 
in the tissues. Moderate quantities do no harm; but 

119 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

immoderate use is bad for the young and suicide 
after the age of forty-five. Three or four cigars, 
and six or eight cigarets, a day, made from un- 
adulterated tobacco, may be taken without harm by 
the average healthy man all through life. In every 
chronic disease only observation can decide whether 
tobacco should be forbidden entirely, previous habits 
being an important factor. 

People with compensated heart trouble may follow 
Diet when the the diet here laid down in every particular, paying 
Heart is sick! es p 6 eial attention to eat not more meat than is ad- 
vised. When the heart shows symptoms of weakness, 
the whole daily quantity eaten should be divided 
into five meals in place of three. This will demand 
less effort at one time for digestion; the food will 
take less room and be less likely to interfere, by up- 
ward pressure, with the free space allowed for action 
to the heart. At any time when the compensation 
is badly broken, the patient would do better to re- 
main in bed and live two or three days exclusively 
on one quart of milk a day, taken a cupful at a 
time, with a teaspoon. A physician should watch 
the patient's strength during this diet. This ex- 
clusive milk diet for two or three days keeps the 
blood free from irritating waste, eases the work for 
the kidneys, and saves the strength of the heart and 
the whole body, by reducing the demands on its 
energy made by digestion and assimilation of more 
substantial food. Thorough mastication, eating slowly 

120 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

and only when well rested, and all the other points 
mentioned as important, must be followed conscien- 
tiously by a patient with a weak heart. 

TOO FAT? TOO THIN? 

Rational diet and exercise, as discust in a later chap- 
ter, give to everybody, regardless of whether fat or 
lean, the right weight. For instance, the proper diet 
for a person weighing 220 pounds, when he should 
weigh 170 pounds, should contain only enough calo- 
ries to nourish 170 pounds. If that does not suffice 
to satisfy the appetite, fruit and vegetables of low 
caloric value may be eaten. Fat people become nerv- 
ous when the stomach is empty. There is plenty of 
good-tasting food to fill the stomach which does not 
increase the body-weight. Fat people who wish to re- 
duce their weight may do so by living up to the 
following in a general way: 

Before breakfast take the Muller, or some similar 
kind of exercise (see Chapter VIII). The breakfast 
to consist of fruit of any kind, except bananas ; when 
the fruit is stewed it should either be not sweetened 
or sweetened with saccharine; eggs, fish, or meat; 
not more than two thin slices of bread; one cup of 
tea sweetened with saccharine. An average-sized 
cube of butter is also permitted. 

For dinner, take meat of any kind which is not 
fat or prepared with rich gravies; plenty of lettuce, 
tomatoes, celery, spinach, asparagus, string beans, 
egg-plant, or cabbage; same fruits as mentioned 

121 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

above for breakfast; sherbets not very sweet or pre- 
pared with saccharine; not more than one slice of 
bread and one cube of butter ; no soup, potatoes, root- 
vegetables, or sweet deserts. 

Supper should be along the same general lines as 
dinner and breakfast. All liquids should be taken at 
least one hour before, or one hour after meals. If 
hungry between meals, fruit may be taken. 

It must be remembered that, without any exercise, 
the body can burn up very little fuel and it is difficult 
when taking no exercise to diminish food to the 
amount necessary to prevent the weight from in- 
creasing without weakening the body. A walk of at 
least an hour or gymnastics should be taken to give 
the body an opportunity of disposing of its normal 
amount of fuel. 

By eating all the food needed at breakfast and 
mid-day, and only some fruit and slices of bread in 
the evening, one is sure soon to reduce the weight 
considerably. Sleep and rest, following a heavy even- 
ing meal, is conducive to taking on weight. This is 
important to know, as many people, in their effort to 
lose weight, eat only two meals a day and do not suc- 
ceed because they take the heaviest meal at night. 

A healthy person can lose from four to six pounds 
by taking for one week nothing except a quart of milk 
per day, in four equal portions, with a teaspoon. If 
very hungry four apples may be added per day. 
People who are not well should follow this regime 
only under a doctor's advice. 

122 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

By eating nothing for a week except old dry bread, 
and drinking nothing except three glasses of warm 
and light wine every third day, and taking packs at 
night (see special chapter), healthy people feel fine 
and reduce from one to two pounds a day. The packs 
at night give an astonishingly restful sleep and take 
away thirst. 

Methods for reducing weight should be kept up 
only until ten pounds in weight have been lost. The 
normal amount of food, according to schedule, should 
then be eaten. The right way to get rid of fat is to 
change it into muscle by exercise. It is dangerous to 
the heart and nerves to underfeed the average person 
for a period longer than two weeks. Some stand it 
and feel fine, but others will need years to rebuild 
their strength. It is physiologically impossible to give 
a person who is built like a dray-horse the figure of 
a race-horse. 

Persons who are too lean must add 20 calories for 
each pound of underweight and cover those calories 
by cereals, sweets, and fat not by meats which can 
not be taken with benefit for any length of time in 
excess of what the actual present weight demands. A: 
gain in fat alone is undesirable. The increased weight 
should consist of fat and muscle. For that reason, 
the prescription for lean people begins, the same as 
for fat people, with exercise in the morning. 

For breakfast, as big a bowl of cereal, with cream 
and sugar, as can be eaten; bread with plenty of 

123 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

butter and a cup of one-third of any breakfast bever- 
age desired with two-thirds of a cup of cream. After 
the above has been eaten, anything more that is de- 
sired may be taken. 

For dinner, have a thick cream soup, meats in small 
quantity, plenty of potatoes mixed with butter, sweet 
deserts of rice, farina, or flour of any kind; a glass 
one-third of any kind of liquid desired, with two- 
thirds of a glass of cream. Anything more may be 
eaten that is wanted, after this has been consumed. 

Supper should be along the same general lines as 
dinner and breakfast. 

Before retiring, if it can be digested, milk, malted 
milk, or gruel with plenty of cream, may be taken. 
This can be done between meals also, providing it 
does not take away the appetite for regular meals. 

It may be repeated again that it does no good to 
make a person fat by feeding only, as this gives no 
strength, and often the weight is again lost in a few 
months. Only by following, besides, a course of exer- 
cise can a real and permanent gain in efficiency be 
achieved. 

CONSTIPATION 

Constipation is often the result of wrong living 
and wrong thinking, a habit and a weakness, and is 
hardly to be considered a sickness. Constipation 
means the retention of food or faeces in the intestines 
for a longer period than is consistent with the in- 
dividual's health. Some people who have a bowel- 

124 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

movement every eight days feel perfectly well, and 
never need treatment for constipation. Others show 
symptoms of insufficient cleaning out of the intestines 
and need treatment for constipation in spite of three 
bowel-movements a day. All depends on the person, 
his habits and food. 

The causes of constipation are an inherited dis- 
position, the mind (physchogenic), and the food (ali- 
mentary). Inability to empty the bowels on account 
of an obstruction by a tumor, a scar, or a twisting 
of the bowels, is not discust here. 

Of all other kinds of constipation, at least ninety 
out of a hundred may be cured by Christian Science, 
which proves the overwhelming power of mind over 
the digestive apparatus and the frequency of nervous- 
ness as the cause of constipation. 

A wrong attitude toward the world in general, 
and one's own fate in particular, and conflicts of the 
soul are, tho it may sound incredible, the most com- 
mon causes of constipation. From the neighborhood 
in the brain where such sensations are localized, nerves 
run down to the intestines and keep their automatic 
motors moving with the right speed. These regulating 
nerves, in the case of nervous people, are interfered 
with immediately when unpleasant things are going 
on in the neighborhood of their starting-point in 
the brain. It is virtually the same as when a 
general manager, who has had trouble of his own, 
comes to his store and, in bad temper, either forgets 
to give orders to the different departments, or begins 

125 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

to stir everything up without reason; even the best 
working department will then become disturbed and 
temporarily demoralized. The general manager repre- 
sents the brain the bowels one of the departments. 

When it is not possible to remove nervousness or 
Its cause, the bowels must be stimulated directly to 
greater activity by food which stirs up the peristalsis, 
this is the name given to the motion peculiar to the 
bowels. Such foodstuffs are bran, different kinds of 
nuts, fruit of any kind (blackberries excepted), ap- 
ples with the peeling left on, prunes (the small 
ones are preferable as they have more skin 
that being the most beneficial part), orange- juice 
with some pulp, grapes, etc., and most vegetables. 
This diet makes the work for the bowels easier, as 
it leaves plenty of bulk on which they can take 
hold. Meats and white bread are almost entirely 
absorbed, and what remains is so small in bulk that 
the bowels must contract to their smallest possible 
size in order to reach them for forward pressure. 
This the bowels are sometimes unable to do, in which 
case the person suffers from the so-called alimentary 
(food) constipation. This form is aggravated when 
there exists, in addition, congenital weakness of the 
muscles of the bowels. 

Next to the importance of diet in treatment of con- 
stipation is exercise ; especially beneficial are exercises 
of the trunk bending, stretching, twisting, and move- 
ment of the whole leg when lying down. Such gym- 
nastics may be taken inside of five minutes; they 

126 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

knead the intestines like a thorough massage and 
strengthen the muscles which attend to the peris- 
talsis. In some cases a lukewarm bath of about ten 
minutes' duration, taken daily for about six weeks, 
works like magic. Such baths help to relax the 
bowels when they are spasmodically contracted, a 
nervous condition we can see with X-Rays on 
stretches of the bowels two to six inches long, where 
the feces can hardly pass except with the help of a 
strong laxative. 

Every regularly repeated action finally becomes a 
habit of the body. For this reason the bowels should 
be called upon to act by going to the closet every day 
at the same time, when, after a few weeks, at the 
habitual hour the fasces will be ready for evacuation 
with the help of a little straining. People with a 
w r eak heart or hardened blood-vessels should never 
strain hard; the effort may exhaust the heart or an 
artery in the brain may break; the color of the face 
indicates how straining interferes with the circula- 
tion. 

Gas acidity and a sensation of fulness are often 
associated with inactive bowels and are caused by 
eating fatigued, by nervousness, insufficient mastica- 
tion, hasty eating or by too much liquid taken with 
meals. When no liquids are taken during meals, but, 
instead, an hour or two before or after, and when 
the other causes are remedied, most unpleasant sen- 
sations after eating disappear. 

Every one whose constipation does not arise from a 

127 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

real organic disease of the intestines can be cured by 
following the routine given below: 

The regime begins with exercise every morning. 
People who do not work in the morning may take a 
luke-warm bath for ten to twenty minutes on rising; 
others preferably bathe in the evening. Hot and cold 
baths have an entirely different effect and may be 
taken, but they do not produce the results on the 
bowels we look for here. A glass of cold water 
should be taken slowly immediately on awakening. 

For breakfast one or two apples should be eaten 
with the skin left on. People with poor teeth can 
have the apples scraped and mixed with corn- or other 
flakes and sweetened with honey. Scraped nuts may 
also be added. This gives an effective and delightful 
breakfast dish. For a change, other kinds of fruit, if 
necessary crusht, may be substituted. In any event, 
the first dish for breakfast should be fruit. The most 
preferable cereals are those which contain bran (the 
whole grain ground up), oatmeal, etc. Of dry 
cereals a very good one is Uncle Sam's breakfast food 
(whole wheat and flax seed, ground). Whole wheat 
bread and bran gems are the best kind of bread. 
Bran gems are made as follows: For 6 gems use 2 
cups of bran, 1 cup of white flour, 3 teaspoon- 
fuls of molasses, 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder, a /2 
teaspoonful of soda, 1^4 cups of sweet milk, and a 
little salt. Mix the ingredients, putting the soda in 
the milk, and bake in a moderate heat three-quarters 
of an hour. Honey, marmalade, and butter should 

128 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

be eaten. Anything else that is desired may be 
eaten for breakfast, except such, things as are men- 
tioned later as forbidden. 

For dinner: If wanted, a small helping of soup, a 
big dish of vegetables, fruit and, after this is eaten, 
as much meat as there is an appetite for; as desert, 
apples, grapes, etc., etc. 

Supper should be the same as the dinner and break- 
fast, in a general way. The main point is the right 
kind of bread and fruit. 

Everything must be avoided which has been found, 
from general or personal experience, to be constipat- 
ing : white bread, especially when toasted, cocoa, choco- 
late, red wine or anything prepared with it, crackers, 
etc. Some people are constipated by boiled milk, 
others by rice, etc. 

An apple, eaten with the skin, at ten in the 
morning and four in the afternoon, or, without fail, 
one hour before retiring, each time with a glass of 
water, almost always helps. Every one who Fletcher- 
izes can eat any kind of fruit. People who have not 
will-power enough to Fletcherize, may have the fruit 
scraped or crusht and make at least a little effort to 
salivate it thoroughly, so that it will not sour on the 
stomach. Stewed prunes (about ten), a glass of prune- 
juice, or four to five figs taken evenings, are rather 
satisfactory. During the day a third of a glass of 
water taken frequently has a better effect than large 
quantities taken at one time. Honey, buttermilk, grape- 
juice (only certain makes), nuts, raisins, and many 

129 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

other foodstuffs of the same kind are good regula- 
tors. At least one of these should be regularly on the 
menu. It may be stated once more that everything 
should be avoided which is directly binding. If the 
bowels do not move after following for ten days this 
diet, meat should be given up for twelve days. Vege- 
tarians seldom complain about inactive digestion. 
Twelve days are enough to start the bowels working 
properly. 

Many people take laxatives all their lives without 
apparent harm and continue to have the same good 
results without increasing the dose. With others, the 
laxative has to be increased, or changed, or none 
will work satisfactorily. It is easily understood that 
a pill must be powerful in order to clean twenty-five 
feet of intestines inside a short time when, normally, 
the large intestines move the fasces up and down at 
intervals of from one to three minutes and have them 
ready for evacuation only after an interval of twenty- 
four hours. The motion of the bowels can be seen 
with the Roentgen Rays, which clearly show the 
effect of different laxatives and their predilection 
for different parts of the intestines. Unwholesome 
and violent kinds of purgatives are often taken 
without injury for years by those who eat too much, 
and have in their intestines a surplus of food which 
does more good when removed by an unnatural 
evacuation than when normally assimilated, while 
those who eat only the right quantity of food be- 
come weakened by the continued use of laxatives. 

130 



VII 



AIR, CLIMATE, HOME 

1. The relationship of air and light to the body. 

2. The influence of climate on man's efficiency. 

(a) The altitude. 

(&) Humidity and electricity. 

(c) Temperature; equable and changeable weather. 

(d) Wind. 

(e) Dust. 

3. Work: indoors and out of doors. 

4. The home: its location, general arrangement, and con- 

geniality. 



131 



VII 



'AIR, CLIMATE, HOME 

No matter whether man was born in Paradise or 
was gradually developed from a lower animal type, 
one thing certain is that he was originally an open- 
air creature and his body, even to-day, can not stand 
with impunity indoor air, unless it is kept, in composi- 
tion, like outdoor air. Air is just as essential to the 
body as heart and brain; the only difference is that 
the air has to be renewed with each breath. When 
the oxygen of air is taken from us, we die just as 
quickly as tho our heart or brain had been cut out. 
The body is affected as injuriously by polluted air as 
by a diseased organ. 

Air is made up of 74 per cent, nitrogen, 25 per cent, 
oxygen and a small variable per cent, of carbonic acid 
gas. The existence of all animal life is dependent on 
oxygen, which must enter the lungs, become absorbed, 
and then circulate with the blood. Man has succeeded 
in depriving his fellow beings of many valuable pos- 
sessions, but God made it practically impossible for 
him to deprive them of oxygen; lack of it is very; 
seldom the reason why air becomes unsuitable for con- 
sumption. 

133 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

In our lungs we absorb oxygen and throw off car- 
bonic acid gas. The air of a room may become so 
saturated with the latter, that such carbonic acid gas 
as we should exhale finds an outlet with such dif- 
ficulty that it either partially remains in our sys- 
tem or is reinhaled with each breath. 

Men have been asked to do mental or manual 
Effect of Good labor in closed rooms, the nerves then tested for sensi- 
and Bad Air. tiveness, which it was found decreased in proportion 

LIST lit* 

to the length of time that the windows were closed. 
In the early winter, people begin to live indoors with 
closed windows, which is the real cause of so many 
complaints at that time of depression and exhausted 
nerves. Nobody breathes deeply in a closed room 
because, instinctively, we rebel against reinhaling 
air which we ourselves or others so recently had in 
the lungs. 

Gases which originate from other sources are mixed 
with the air and absorbed by the blood, in some in- 
stances become just as dangerous to the system as tho 
we had swallowed poison; for example, gases gener- 
ated by insufficient combustion, lighting gas, the 
fumes of chloroform, etc. Bacteria may be car- 
ried through the air from one near place to another, 
or from one patient to another. 

Free access of fresh air into stagnating air, is the 
best remedy against poisonous gases and bacteria, 
which otherwise would attack us in overwhelming 
numbers. Direct and sufficient communication with 
the open air must exist wherever man lives. A draft 

134 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

should be made to pass through, a crowded room every 
hour in order to drive out excretions from lungs and 
skin. The slightly increased cost of fuel in winter, 
when the windows are kept open, is compensated for 
by better health. The welfare of many must not be 
sacrificed to the folly of one who does not believe he 
can stand having the windows open. Air-drafts and 
winds are God's ventilators. Many large cities would 
be less healthy if the much-complained-of winds 
should cease, leaving stagnating air to enshroud the 
population in a malodorous cloud. 

Benjamin Franklin understood that people catch 
cold indoors. The experience of the army and 
navy proves that no one who wears suitable clothes 
and footwear ever catches cold out of doors. Thou- 
sands of intelligent people get their colds in heated 
rooms, which act like culture-mediums for bacteria. 
By remaining out of doors for a day or two, well cov- 
ered, they might quickly cure themselves. After the 
defeat of Napoleon in Russia, his army was attacked 
more than ever before by typhoid fever. Soldiers 
who were treated in hospitals usually died, but the 
majority of those who remained out-of-doors got well. 
Pneumonia is treated with open windows. Tubercu- 
losis thrives indoors and is likely to be ciired out 
of doors. 

Sunlight destroys many disease-breeding parasites. 
In dark places there are, on an average, ten times as 
many parasites as in a good light and the old saying 
is true that ''good light and air close the door to the 

135 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

physician." Vitality and tissue change are lowered 
in the dark. Most plants can not normally develop 
without light. Light makes every function of the 
body more active and is a tremendous promoter of 
optimism. It is peculiar how we all notice the effect 
of weather on the looks, actions, and feelings of most 
people, without drawing any personal conclusions 
as to the place where we ourselves should live. 

A thoroughly sound person can, with reasonable 

influence of discretion, be at his best as well under the equator, 

Climate or at the North p ole> as in New Yo rk or California, 

provided he knows how to protect himself against ex- 
tremes of cold and heat, diseases, want of food, etc. 
On the other hand, the experience of American and 
European governments in their colonies, shows that 
many officials are changed with the climate, for better 
or worse, morally, bodily, and mentally. It is not 
necessary to go to far distant countries, or to remem- 
ber the difference between a Norwegian and an Italian, 
a German and a Spaniard, or a Russian Jew born in 
Europe and one born in America, to realize the influ- 
ence of climate and environment. Absolutely re- 
liable people are sure that a change from the plains 
to the mountains, from the seashore to inland places, 
or from Florida to California, has a decided influence 
on health and working ability. Humboldt, the great 
naturalist of the last century, defines climate as all 
the changes in the atmosphere which noticeably affect 
the body. 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

It is a great pity that physicians do not recommend 
a permanent change in climate to patients who, with- 
out apparent organic disease, complain of lack of 
vitality and of bodily and mental ill health, as well 
as to sufferers from tuberculosis. 

Some babies are born without the ability readily to 
adjust themselves to their environment. In spite of 
a healthy appearance, they become and remain sick 
if the least thing is wrong with their food, the temper- 
ature, light, or if there is lack of quiet in their sleep- 
ing-room. Such babies either outgrow their limita- 
tions or develop in later life a general over-sensitive- 
ness and lack of stability ; they grow asthmatic, are 
inclined to become fat, gouty, or irregular in digestion. 
A climate unsuited to them makes their bodies slug- 
gish. They represent the type of people who do not 
amount to much on account of chronic fatigue and 
an inability to sustain an effort. An analysis of the 
effect of climate easily explains why a change may be 
helpful to them. 

Hot weather, if continued for weeks, with damp- 
ness besides, lowers the vitality and resisting-power of Tropical and 
the body against sickness and indiscretions. People 
whose bodies have not been accustomed since child- 
hood to a hot climate had better remain out of it 
or should live there quietly, on a vegetarian diet, 
and avoid liquor. By this regime the Trappist monks 
succeed in working and reach an old age in hottest 

137 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

Africa. In cold weather the body must produce a 
greater amount of heat, which means a greater ex- 
penditure of bodily energy. These are some of the 
reasons why people who are not strong will find that 
a moderate climate is the easiest to live in. 

An altitude of only 4,000 feet in summer, which 
influence of affects the body to the same extent as an altitude of 
Altitude 2,500 feet in winter, increases the number of red 
corpuscles and distributes the blood differently. More 
blood circulates near the surface and less in the in- 
testinal organs, whereas, in a lower altitude, sluggish 
people ordinarily have too much blood in the intestinal 
organs. Up to a height of 15,000 feet the white blood 
corpuscles, our fighters against sickness, increase in 
proportion to the altitude and every function of the 
body becomes more vitalized. 

With every thousand feet of altitude, the weight of 
one thousand feet of atmospheric pressure is removed 
from the skin and the resistance against the blood's 
circulation is lowered in proportion. If one remem- 
bers how small an area is open to the atmosphere in 
an ordinary mercurial barometer, and sees the mer- 
cury fall almost four inches at an altitude of four 
thousand feet, he can imagine the difference which 
such a change in pressure must make on the surface 
of the body, which is more than a thousand times 
greater than the opening in the barometer. Many 
people quite rightly feel as tho a weight were taken 
off of them when they go to a higher altitude. 

138 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 



Those who find work and pleasure a conscious effort, 
who are fatigued without reason, sluggish, and in- 
clined to be fat, are often changed, by a higher altitude 
alone, into progressive and ambitious people. 

Air, when saturated with humidity, almost to the Air Over- 
point of rain, does not permit the best contact of char s ed witb 

Humidity or 

oxygen with lung tissue, or very ready evaporation Electricity 
from the skin, which is an important excretory organ. 
In damp weather the waste of the body must either be 
excreted through the kidneys, or it will cause general 
discomfort when it remains. Electricity, which is 
constantly produced by any and every thing we do, 
finds in damp air a less favorable opportunity for 
discharge. More than the proper amount remains in 
the system and gives to nervous people a feeling of 
discomfort, especially in the region of the heart. In 
a dry climate, for instance in Egypt, one- third of the 
work generally done by the kidneys is performed by 
free evaporation through the skin. This means an 
immense saving for the kidneys, as in place of one 
quart of urine, they have only to secrete a pint. 

In an equable climate it is unnecessary for the blood- 
vessels to change in size as often as they must in local- 
ities where they have to adjust themselves to frequent 
changes in temperature. In elderly people in whom 
the blood-vessels are worn, an equable climate saves 
these work and often permits them to follow a useful 
occupation. The economy of the body must be regu- 
lated differently in winter and summer by different 



The Life- 
prolonging 
Equable 
Climate 



139 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

kinds of clothing, food, etc., and this also amounts 
to quite a strain for old people. 

It has been proven by laboratory tests that the body 
uses more food and changes its tissue quicker when 
exposed to winds. The difference between wind and 
still air is the same as that between a bath in a bath- 
tub and a bath in the ocean. In a still medium, a 
layer of air or water remains in close proximity to the 
skin and accepts its temperature. In moving air or 
water, a different temperature is continually brought 
anew into contact with the body. When the surround- 
ing temperature is lower than that of the body, heat is 
taken from it, which must be made up by burning 
more fuel, or food. This explains why a windy local- 
ity disagrees with people of low vitality, who can not 
eat and digest well, and is agreeable often to those 
who need an outlet of energy. 

Breathing is easier in air free from dust. The little 
influence of air-pipes of the lungs are provided with tiny muscles 
which contract, in self-protection, against an air con- 
taminated by an irritating dust their action being sim- 
ilar to that of the eyelids. For pure air the lungs 
open themselves wide, in order to offer the greatest 
possible breathing-space. This is one of the reasons 
why so many people feel better when on the ocean or 
when breathing dust-free mountain air. It is easily 
understood that a chronic form of inflammation, 
especially in the lungs, may be caused by irritating 
dust. 

140 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

It is not always possible to decide at once, in each 
case, what is the right climate for a person. Some- change of 
times a high altitude agrees with one for whom, from Climate worth 
a medical standpoint, it would appear that the sea- 
shore were the proper place, or vice- versa. Theoretical- 
ly, excitable people should have less trouble in con- 
trolling themselves on or near the ocean, but the 
sight of the waves gives to some the feeling of rest, 
and others are disturbed by their noise and motion. In 
a similar way, mountains affect people by the impres- 
sion they make on the mind, which interferes with the 
direct effect of the altitude. In either case, sunshine, 
rain, and wind are modifying factors. By using good 
judgment and making one or two changes, every one 
may ascertain what locality fits him best. This coun- 
try offers unlimited possibilities for finding work in 
any kind of climate. Those who are opprest and 
handicapped by their present environments and, with- 
out apparent reason, lack in stability, commit a gross 
neglect of their best interests by remaining, without 
compelling reasons, in a climate which may be the 
cause of their limitations. Concerning the influence 
of altitude upon the heart, the reader is referred to 
Chapter XIII. 

Change, unfortunately, does not benefit people who 
feel lonely because friends and family have been left 
at home. When hard and successful work does not 
overcome the loneliness, all good derived from an 
otherwise favorable location may be destroyed by 
homesickness. 

141 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

To some patients must be recommended, besides a 
change of climate, a change of occupation and out-of- 
door work in the country, as the only means of making 
their lives worth living. Not only the economic condi- 
tion, but the stunted growth of millions of city dwel- 
lers cry out, "back to the country," which is discust 
in detail in a chapter on the hygiene of work. 

Centralization of business and decentralization of 
city and residence districts, are steps in the right direction in 
Suburb j.} ie evolution of city-building. Since the battle for 
existence crowds people for ten hours daily into an air 
polluted and made noisy by thousands of men, animals, 
and factories, the rest of life, at least, ought to be 
spent in a quiet neighborhood, in the country, or 
in a suburb. Noises are sounds, sounds are waves, 
waves make vibration and, even tho we do not pay 
attention to the noises of the street, the brain is made 
to vibrate, which can not be a matter of indifference. 
High-grade sensitive brains whic-h are vibrating from 
noises and sounds in the street, do less good work 
in a noisy city than when they are allowed to be 
normal in a quiet atmosphere. The flight of so many 
men with original ideas into the country or suburbs 
has a good reason. 

It is self-evident that a home should have all the 
modern hygienic improvements windows with ex- 
posure to the south, west, or east, quiet sleeping-rooms 
where windows may be kept open, etc. The temper- 

142 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

ature in living-rooms should be about sixty-five, in 
sleeping-rooms, about fifty-seven ; and the air in winter 
should be kept sufficiently moist in all rooms, arti- 
ficial heat being apt to dry it out. By keeping the 
house too hot, one makes for oneself an artificially 
warm climate and is affected, on going out-of-doors, 
as tho one moved with one step from southern Cali- 
fornia to northern Michigan. Rooms should be care- 
fully ventilated, both in summer and winter, as heat 
and impure air together produce bad spells of nerv- 
ousness and intestinal disorders in children and in 
some adults. Summer diarrhea in children happens 
mainly in poorly ventilated rooms and is often the 
equivalent of heatstroke in adults. 

With age comes maturity and the normal instinct 
is to be independent. No progress is possible if the victims of an 
younger generation were always to abide by the wishes 
of elders. That is the reason why it is wrong to make 
grownup people of strong personalities live together 
or share the home life of parents. Good-hearted people 
try to please those who are dear to them and, by 
giving up their own plans, lose what is possibly the 
best in their individuality; those who do not yield 
cause discord. Many a room in health-resorts and 
sanitariums would remain vacant, if grownup people 
did not make themselves victims of the homes of 
others; those who are most generous break down 
soonest. 



143 



VIII 

THE INSEPARABLY INTERDEPENDENT 

TRINITY OF WORK, REST 

AND SLEEP 

HYGIENE OF WORK: 

1. Occupation essential to health. 

2. The cause of fatigue when out of proportion to the 

work done. 

3. Proper division of time between work and rest. 

4. The influence of over-ambition, or unwillingness, on the 

quality of work. 

5. The cause of mediocre work. 

6. The advantage of farm- and ranch-work and how to 

overcome the objections thereto. 
HYGIENE OF KECREATION: 

The effect of dancing and music. 
HYGIENE OF EXERCISE: 

1. The distinction between exercise and over-exercise. 

2. The advantage of interesting exercise and team-work. 

3. Exercise for children and the teacher's responsibility. 

4. .Exercise for people over forty-five. 

5. Walking (sadly neglected), riding, swimming, gardening, 

etc. 

6. The advantage of the Muller and similar systems of ex- 

ercise. 

7. Exercises permitted when the heart is sick. 
SLEEP: 

1. Distinction between the sleep of the conscious and the 

sub-conscious self. 

2. What is the proof of sufficient sleep? 

3. The average length of sleep. 
SLEEPLESSNESS : 

1. Causes. 

2. Cures. 

145 



VIII 

THE INSEPARABLY INTERDEPENDENT 

TRINITY OP WORK, REST 

AND SLEEP 

Work and sleep, rest and activity, are parts of one 
unit and are interdependent. Work makes sleep and 
activity makes satisfactory rest possible. They are not 
opposites like darkness and light, or heat and cold, 
which can exist each without the other. 

Entire lack of sleep for eight days brings every 
organ of the body to a standstill. The quality of sleep 
in a healthy person corresponds, with almost mathe- 
matical precision, to his quality of work. Normal 
people who are compelled to keep bodily and mentally; 
quiet, either sleep very little or their sleep is un- 
satisfactory. 

The blood delivers the food supply with which each 
cell produces its own particular kind of work the 
muscle that of contraction, the brain that of reasoning, 
remembering, discriminating, etc. But the capacity 
of each cell's work is limited, as, during its work, 
chemical substances, fatigue products, are formed 
which accumulate and interfere, after a certain 
length of time, with further activity, until eliminated. 
The injection of blood from a tired animal into 

147 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

another of the same kind which has rested all day, 
will make the second one just as tired as if it had 
worked. By making a tracing of the contraction 
of a muscle, we may see its working capacity decrease 
and the necessity for rest increase, in exact propor- 
tion to the quantity of the chemical fatigue-products 
which accumulate. The elimination of the fatigue- 
products takes place during rest, and for the brain, 
heart, and nerves, mainly during sleep. 

Sleep, exercise, work, and rest must be taken in the 
right proportion to make any one of them satisfactory. 
Any physician who wants to improve the one must 
consider the others. It is against the laws of nature 
to treat sleep as a thing in itself, by paying attention 
only to the nights, just as hopeless is an endeavor to 
improve the quality of a man's work without close at- 
tention to the quality of his sleep and recreation. 

HYGIENE OF WORK 

Every normal body produces, except in sickness, 
more energy than it needs to keep heart, lungs, 
and bowels working. This surplus of energy must be 
spent in mental or manual occupation; if left to ac- 
cumulate in the system, it destroys the tissue in the 
same way as an electric battery is destroyed when a 
current is turned on and not directed to some outside 
work. The first signal of unemployed energy is rest- 
lessness ; later the tissues deteriorate lack of exercise 
having an additional bad effect. With a man past 
forty leading an idle life, the probability is that he 

148 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

will live to be fifty-seven years old; for one leading 
a harmonious and sufficiently occupied life, the prob- 
ability is that he will live to be sixty-six. This is 
the experience of life insurance companies who make 
a specialty of old age annuities. 

On the other hand, those who use up more strength 
than their bodies normally can generate, use up their 
future and wear out the system by overwork, exactly; 
as their opposites do by lack of work. By training 
any man's working-capacity can be increased, but 
only to a certain point ; this point differs with differ- 
ent people. The ambition to reach a point beyond 
the individual's inherited and highest obtainable 
ability is the cause of many failures. 

The brain furnishes the working current for activity 
of every organ of the body. Each brain-center re- 
mains congested so long as that part of the body is 
working to which it supplies the working energy. 
For the average person forty-five minutes is the 
limit for highly concentrated work. After ten 
minutes' rest, the work may be repeated for the 
same length of time. A longer relaxation of two or 
three hours should then follow, when work may be 
resumed in the same manner. By training many 
people succeed in surpassing these time limits. For 
less concentrated work, eight hours' labor, with a 
rest in the middle, is not too much, provided the 
muscles, or the special organ that performs the work, 
does not become fatigued sooner. 



149 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

For fatigue out of proportion to the work done 
there exist, besides sickness, bad air, unsuitable cli- 
mate, and insufficient food, three distinct causes. 
The first is lack of exercise, when, on account of in- 
sufficient use, the muscles grow weak and become ex- 
hausted by a slight effort. This condition is easily 
cured by a two weeks' course of systematic physical 
training. The second cause is a peculiarly constituted 
muscular and nervous system, which can not sustain 
an effort. This is easily demonstrated by the electric 
current that is able, in such cases, to cause only about 
a third as many contractions in succession as it can 
produce in a normal person. The third and most 
common cause of chronic fatigue, is an over-sensitive 
nervous system which becomes affected by fatigue- 
products, so small in quantity that they would not make 
the least impression on a strong nervous system. It 
can be demonstrated that this peculiar cause of chronic 
fatigue and exhaustion really exists by the experience 
of people who have been almost suddenly enabled to 
stand a full day's work, climb mountains, etc., after 
their nerves had been steadied, or made less sensitive, 
by some kind of medicine, or by Christian Science, 
etc. Previously they may have felt the necessity of 
lying down after the least effort. Any absorbing in- 
terest, enthusiasm, unselfish love, etc., have the same 
healing effect on chronic fatigue, through taking at- 
tention away from one's self. In this kind of chronic 
fatigue, medicines that stimulate are of no avail, 
while sedatives, which, theoretically, make a person 

150 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

tired, often work like magic, as they render the 
brain less sensible to fatigue-products and thereby 
restore the normal feeling of vigor. 

A good division of time for the average person is 
six to eight hours ' work ; four hours of rest, meals in- proper 
eluded; three hours of pleasure of a kind which em- 
ploys faculties that were not used during work, and 
eight to nine hours of sleep. 

The faculties that are active during business hours 
should be entirely relieved each week for thirty-six 
hours. This is achieved best by a diversion, the blood 
being drawn away from those parts to which it habitu- 
ally flows while engaged in one's usual work. On the 
other hand, one must be cautious not to tire one 's self 
by the diversion itself. Each year once, or twice, if 
possible, a vacation of at least twelve days should be 
taken. Ten days are necessary to remove from the 
brain-centers the rhythm that has been accepted auto- 
matically through an ever-repeated kind of activity. 
This so-called ' ' perseverism ' ' is over, in a healthy per- 
son, at the latest on the eleventh day, when the brain 
is ready to work with renewed energy. 

A bodily healthy person is not conscious of his 
body. A mentally healthy person should not be con- Cause of Poor 
scious of his personality. Strong outside interests are 
necessary to make us forget ourselves. One's own 
personality is sufficient to fill out only a very narrow 
life. The most pleasant way to kill time is a satis- 
factory occupation. Many people with undeveloped 

151 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

understanding would remain idle if the necessity of 
making a living or an ambition did not induce them 
to work. Unwilling or over-ambitious workers should 
become acquainted with the so-called "paradoxical 
reaction." This is a condition in which parts that 
are active and their centers in the brain do not re- 
ceive their due working supply of blood. By direct ob- 
servation it is proven that strong emotions, like fear, 
over-anxiety, or over-ambition, for their own centers, 
draw away blood from parts where it is really needed 
for work. This explains why people in such stages 
of mind are unable to do their best, for instance, in 
an examination, competition, battle, etc. Energy 
spent in one direction as in fear, anger, etc. is lost 
for anything else. This is a loss which means 
failure when only entire concentration could have 
led to success or the possible achievement of a great 
deed. 

The reason so much mediocre work is done is that 
so many people are lacking in enthusiasm and love for 
their work. The Bible and all philosophers call work 
one of the kindest gifts of God, tho to-day it has be- 
come for many disagreeable drudgery. The most 
pleasant way in which to make a living is to do 
work which is congenial. A literary man, if com- 
pelled to sell goods, is unhappy. A born physician, 
or teacher, is happier when following his profession 
than another who follows the same profession only 
because compelled to do so in order to make a living. 

Hardly anything is more apt to ruin health and 

152 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

dissipate youth than discontent with one's work. A 
great number of tolerably successful city dwellers, 
on account of their position as employees, are 
displeased because they work for wages and are de- 
pendent on an employer or corporation's good will. 
Liberal pay does not compensate them for the fact 
that they are producing for another to own, and 
that the owner may deprive them of what they 
have built up with their best efforts. Even less inspir- 
ing is the work of millions who represent nothing but 
parts of machinery made of human flesh because 
mechanics has not yet succeeded in replacing them 
by steel. For years such people go through the 
same motions in a factory, never seeing the be- 
ginning or the finish of a shoe, engine, or whatever 
they may be laboring on. Their days are passed as 
those of some insane people who, for years, continue 
automatically to go through the same motions, knitting 
stockings twenty to thirty feet long without any in- 
terest in the finished product. 

Concentrated production, which is characteristic of 
our time, led, as a natural consequence, to the concen- Back to the 
tration of people in centers of production in large Wh yand r now 
cities. Millions of men, women, and children, unpre- to Overcome 
pared for city life, migrated from the country into the 0b J ections 
cities not ready to receive them. They do not see, 
behind the glamour of stores, offices, and professional 
names, the bodily and mental degradation which neces 
sarily is connected with an uphill struggle in a crowd 
of insufficiently educated neighbors. They do not 

153 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

heed the warning given in each large city by the great 
number of hospitals, quack doctors, juvenile mis- 
demeanors, and conditions in tenement districts which 
are the city-grown hotbeds of crime, infant mortality, 
and tuberculosis. Millions do get along in the fac- 
tories, offices, and stores of large towns, but for 
millions of others no remedy logically exists except 
removal to the country and away from the source of 
their trouble the city. Not that the country is a 
cure-all; a great deal of trouble exists there, too, 
but the country offers relief from certain conditions 
which are detrimental to so many in the city. 

Until fifty years ago, seventy-five per cent, of 
the population lived in the country; to-day only 
twenty-five per cent, live there and seventy-five 
per cent, are in the cities. Formerly farm and 
ranch were considered the best places in which to 
make a living. Nobles and knights had contempt for 
a livelihood gained in any other way. In Europe the 
land is all taken up. But in our God-blest country 
any one can still easily acquire land and be inde- 
pendently self-supporting, and thus escape sickness, 
and the humiliation and friction connected with 
salaried work in the city. 

The first reason so few take advantage of unsur- 
passed opportunities for independence, health, and 
happiness on farm and ranch in the United States, 
is that most people have not the least idea that these 
opportunities exist. As always, the monied class finds 

154 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

first what is agreeable and returns to the country, 
while the great masses foolishly stick to the stuffy 
factory and store until the best land is gone. In the 
country every one may soon become his own master, 
provided he is as diligent and punctual in working 
for himself as he is compelled to be when slaving for 
another in a factory or an office. First, he may rent 
and soon buy good land on which he can earn all that 
he needs for himself and his family, and, in a short 
time, he may save for the future. There is no doubt 
that any man with good health, and exercising ordi- 
nary business ability, can succeed and be independent 
with a capital of not over $300 to start with. 

The second reason why work in the country is dis- 
liked is because most of us have been trained to re- 
ceive our pleasure and recreation from conversa- 
tion and from man-made things. We practically 
leave undeveloped the understanding appreciation 
of anything coming directly and immediately from 
God and nature, which we would go miles to see 
when reproduced in an art gallery, but pass by as un- 
interesting when real. While in working hours in 
an office or factory there is too great sameness, we are 
offered during leisure hours in the city too great a 
variety of superficial amusements. By drawing habit- 
ually on outside sources for recreation, we gradual- 
ly lose our own resources and become dependent on 
others for our pleasures. The average city dweller 
seldom has concentration enough to enjoy reading any- 
thing except light literature ; the same if done in the 

155 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

country every evening becomes wearisome. Not that the 
life in the country is dull, but the people who find 
it so are lacking in intellectual resources. 

To see, we must be shown. The school-teacher him- 
self must first be made to understand what an un- 
limited wealth of pleasures, benefits, and riches can 
be had in the country; when he grasps things right 
he can not avoid instilling into the minds of youth 
right appreciation. It is the general experience that 
men who spend their youth on the farm with under- 
standing parents are always happy when they return 
there in later life. Those who in youth were not 
trained to commune with nature fail when, in later 
life, they try to live in the country. They do not 
understand the language of field and flower. 

Life in the country and its contact with field and 
mountain give a better sense of proportion as to man 's 
position in this world, and a deeper religious feeling, 
than life in the city, where the importance of man is 
overrated, as one sees mainly man-made things. In 
the country, boys become imbued with patience; by 
watching the growth of plants and trees they acquire 
the knowledge that every sound growth takes time, 
while, if brought up in the city, they are likely to 
expect quick results and to give up before the fruit 
can possibly be ripe. 

To counteract the lure of the city, every country 
school-house should be provided with talking-machines 
to carry the voices of the best singers and speakers 
from large towns to little villages and a biograph 

156 



THEIR CAEE AND CURE 

should be ready to reproduce sights. Once a week a 
performance should be given to reproduce, in this 
way, the best that New York and Chicago afford. At 
least once every two weeks the school-house should be 
made a social center, where all can meet and young 
people can find proper mates. For uncongenially- 
mated couples, country life is terrible. Being com- 
pelled to live together, unrelieved by visits and enter- 
tainments from the outside, husband and wife irri- 
tate each other beyond endurance and flight to the 
city is a welcome compromise. 

In deciding about returns for one's work, the. higher 
wages paid in the city must be discounted. The length 
of time during which people remain fit for work of a 
high standard in factories and stores is shorter than 
on the farm and ranch. The cost of living is higher 
in the city. Statistics about final results show that a 
man who invests his brain and muscle in a farm is, 
after twenty years of work, when he is around his 
fortieth year, better off in regard to health and a care- 
free future, than the man who worked for higher 
wages in the city. 

Farm and ranch offer, in our country, sadly neg- 
lected opportunities of escaping wage-slavery and 
enjoying the most pleasant and wholesome kinds of 
work. 

HYGIENE OP RECREATION 

Body and mind have to be recreated after having 
created; after work, rest must follow. As we do not 
use all our faculties in our business, it is illogical that 

157 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

the mind and body should be kept entirely quiet after 
working hours. A harmonious personality can be 
developed only by change of application or occupa- 
tion. There exists no valid excuse, except sickness, 
for spending all the energy the body can produce in 
one's bread- winning occupation, and becoming so 
tired daily in business that one is unable to enjoy a 
few hours with dance, music, games, etc. 

Men of high type have always divided their time 
physiologically and given to each part of their nature 
its due, which is the reason why they are in better 
condition to do really good creative work and superior 
to those who drudge for sixteen hours daily, without 
allowing the brain-center an opportunity to recuperate 
for intense action. With few exceptions, people who 
have only time for bread-winning work, possess an 
inferior mind. 

A change of occupation has the same effect on the 
body as a change of crops on the soil. Body and soil 
both become exhausted earlier if forced always to pro- 
duce the same; they grow more fertile by a changed 
output. Children whose faculties are concentrated 
from early childhood on one kind of work invariably 
disappoint parents by a premature standstill of their 
one-sidedly cultivated abilities. People who over- 
conscientiously restrict themselves, without change, to 
the same occupation, reduce their brain to a kind of 
automatic action, which does not admit of modifica- 
tion, or the production of new ideas. Any one who is 
not a fossil can convince himself of the truth of this 

158 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

statement by doing the same kind of work for a 
period of three months, eight hours daily, and re- 
turning each evening to the same people. He will find 
that any pleasant change renders his work more at- 
tractive and himself more ambitious. 

Besides what is here said, we refer the reader, 
in regard to recreation, to the chapters about * * sexual 
life," "cure of nervousness" and that part of the final 
chapter which deals with "vacation in America and 
Europe. ' ' 

In recreation, the physical, intellectual, and emo- 
tional side of man 's nature have to be considered and, 
to avoid repetition, we deal here mainly with the emo- 
tional side of man, which has a physiological right to 
exist and on which, to a great extent, depends his 
feeling of happiness and the cheer he brings to others. 

The emotional side of the majority of people can not 
be entirely satisfied by free libraries, lectures, gymna- Dancing and 
siums, playgrounds, etc. We know from observation 
of children and people in a primitive state that the 
love of moving the body to the rhythm of music in 
some form of dancing is an inborn peculiarity of the 
average man. He seems also to possess an innate de- 
sire for some kind of music. 

The Greeks and Romans provided shows and enter- 
tainments from public funds, which kept citizens 
happy and out of mischief, even tho such entertain- 
ments were not always elevating according to our ways 
of thinking. Some form of dance was connected with 

159 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

religious services of old times, just as they are ac- 
companied by music to-day. Almost all primitive peo- 
ples have public dances and games, which take in the 
life of man the same place that play does for the ani- 
mal. During the middle ages, with its ascetic views, 
recreation was not always considered a necessity, but 
dancing and music were free in public places on the 
occasion of many religious and municipal festivals. 

Dancing and music were always man's most natu- 
ral recreations; they provide the most harmlessly 
pleasant outlet for energy and break that terrific 
loneliness, in which state of mind many are .likely 
to commit mistakes and err, just as when intqjfeted. 

Without dancing and music, recreation leagBfes do 
not reach those who most need their help. Both are 
for the health of the soul of many young men and 
women what drinking water is to the body, and should 
be supplied by the city and supervised exactly as is 
the water supply. With liquor and indecent music, 
however, dances may do more harm than bacteria. 

At present it is pathetic to see in American cities 
young men and women with good, clean-cut faces, 
who rush to the worst of dance-halls to satisfy a per- 
fectly legitimate desire for enjoyment. Many would 
prefer to go where they could dance and have a good 
time with bright, decent people, but, as they do not 
find such places, they remain for nights in localities 
where they often acquire habits of vice. 

Some forms of art and music appeal to man's higher 
emotions, while others stimulate his animal passions. 

160 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

The first impel to good and noble work, the others 
constitute the best bait for prostitutes and saloons. 
Taste for good art and music is, to a great extent, 
acquired by cultivation. 

There can not be the least doubt that recreation 
bears a direct relationship to work. When cities 
offer to the public opportunity for free, wholesome 
recreation, they offer not luxuries, but bodily neces- 
sities, which elevate the standard of manhood and 
womanhood. 

HYGIENE OF EXERCISE 

While machinery can be kept as good as new when 
at a standstill, and is worn out by use, living organs, why Exercise 
and especially muscles, deteriorate when inactive and is Necessar y 
improve by doing their proper work. The brain or 
muscle that is active grows strong; the inactive ones 
make few demands and receive lesser supplies of fresh 
blood. Consequently, they are not in as good working 
order. 

When man succeeded in having animals and machin- 
ery do the work which for thousands of years his an- 
cestors had performed with their muscles, the muscles, 
necessarily, had less exercise and often were allowed 
to become weak from lack of use. This would 
not have done any harm if the only object of 
muscles had been to move limbs, to till the soil, or to 
fight an enemy. They were destined to do many other 
things. All the bones and most of the organs are 
kept by them in proper position. Untrained muscles 

161 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

are strong enough to keep everything right, so long 
as the body is at rest, but they stretch and stiffen when 
for any length of time the body is active or in an up- 
right or bent posture. 

[Weak muscles of the back produce abnormal spinal 
curvatures; the back becomes bent, one shoulder 
often too high and the lower part of the spine bent 
too far forward, which pushes the intestines over 
their natural support in the pelvis and causes a dis- 
location of the stomach and intestines (gastroptosis, 
enteroptosis). Weak muscles cause knees to grow 
improperly and the arch of the foot to flatten. It is 
astonishing how many women have wrongly bent and 
set ankles and are in need of orthopedic foot-wear, 
which condition is less frequent in hilly countries 
when, necessarily, muscles are better developed by 
walking uphill. 

There exists a relationship of strength between the 
muscles of the limbs, and trunk, all of which are sub- 
ject to our will, and the muscles of the heart, lungs, 
and intestines, which move automatically, independent 
of our will. While we do not need to develop big 
muscles to keep the heart and intestines in good shape, 
we must not allow our arms and legs to become fat 
and weak from lack of exercise, as then in time the 
heart will become the same. 

Oxygen, after being absorbed in the lungs, forms 
heat mainly by combination with substances which it 
finds in muscles where the largest quantity of blood 
circulates. In fatty tissue, oxidation, which is iden- 

162 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

tical not only with the formation of heat but of 
strength, is slow. This is the reason why brain- 
workers with sound bodies can rely on a greater, 
ever-ready supply of vital energy for mental work 
than those who neglect exercise, who do really good 
work only when they feel fit in occasional spells. 
Sixty per cent, of our body-weight is muscle for 
use as a power-plant, and nobody can ignore this 
generator of bodily strength . with impunity. 

The fatigue-substances of properly employed mus- 
cles are the best natural means of inducing sleep. To 
work one-sidedly with the nervous system with 
the brain until it is exhausted and imperatively 
demands rest, is dangerous. Extreme fatigue is likely 
to wear out the nerve-cells prematurely and perma- 
nently, until neither quiet nor treatment can restore 
them to their previous vigor. 

Our climate and environment improve the immi- 
grant and his children, yet alone would be powerless 
to counteract forever living conditions which are here 
becoming similar to those in Europe. The necessity 
of going ahead independently in the battle with un- 
friendly elements and hostile Indians, made the orig- 
inal North-American settler the stalwart pace-maker 
of the world. The present generation can keep the 
same bodily and mental vigor only by voluntarily 
cultivating sound, strong bodies which, in the early 
pioneers, were produced by environment, it being im- 
possible in those days for weaklings to survive. 

163 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

Exercise increases, while over-exercise diminishes 

Distinction our strength. Exercise elevates the standard of all 

Between our wor v over-exercise lowers it. Exercise adds to 

Exercise and 

overexercise our reserve energy, over-exercise takes away from it. 
After exercise one should feel more ambitious and 
sleep and appetite should be good, while over-exercise 
unfits us for daily occupation and renders the appe- 
tite poor, and the sleep restless or too heavy. Exercise 
must never be taken when the body is tired from 
mental work; the health is improved and a person 
harmoniously developed when man's total energy is 
properly divided between mental and bodily work. 
No good can come from adding exercise after the body 
has gone to the limit of its bodily or mental endur- 
ance in attending to business. These facts should be 
remembered, as strong-minded people often force 
themselves to take exercise when they should take 
rest. 

Exercise that is entertaining and enjoyable affords 
Advantage of a quicker increase in strength, as more can be taken, 
^ nan perfectly hygienic but uninteresting exercise. 
A child can be on his feet and play almost all day 
without becoming tired, but becomes exhausted by a 
straight walk of ten blocks when he is not entertained 
or amused. 

In every kind of exercise it is of paramount im- 
portance to perform it exactly as ordered. By bring- 
ing even the little finger under the control of the mind, 
making it move exactly as commanded, we teach the 

164 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

body to obey orders from the will, which, as we shall 
see later, is the basis of an efficient life. 

It is always preferable to exercise out of doors. 
Indoors the air can not possibly be kept as free from 
pollution from excretions of the skin and lungs. If 
taken indoors, the windows should be kept wide open. 

Exercise taken in teams or in some relationship to 
others gives a training for living in harmony with Advantage of 
other people. In few occupations can a person acting 
alone be as efficient as he is if able to work with others 
for a common end when every one 's power for good is 
multiplied. Ask unhappy, jealous people whom you 
find in sanitariums, or lonesome, forlorn souls whom 
you meet on the by-ways of life, and you will hardly 
ever find one who cultivated in youth the habit of 
playing harmoniously with others. There is less 
jealousy displayed among people brought up in a 
country where children exercise in teams, as in Eng- 
land or America, than where everybody takes gym- 
nastics alone by himself, as was the custom formerly 
in Germany. 

Generally people prefer to do the things they 
can do well ; but they should practise those in which 
they are not so proficient. For example, the athlete 
should take up the sciences, the scientist, athletics. 
Science easily degenerates in an unhealthy body. 
Gymnastics and exercise should be taken for self -im- 
provement, not for competition. 

Correct breathing is at least as important as gym- 
165 



Til 10 IIHAUT AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

Bntl!nr: nasties. I >rea I hiii"; exercises slioiild be taught and 
KxorcU*. taken several limrs ;i day. 

Thorou",h e\halinv Icssms the danger of contami- 
nated ;iir. The oxygen we inhale is needed for Mir pro- 
duel ion of he;il, st reii^lh, ;ind vitality ; il is like (lie air- 
drafl \\hieli makes lheeo;il burn in Hie rni-na.ee. With 
Mlllc oxygen or lillle dral'l. \ve can nol expee.l. the body 
lo run with a hi^li derive of energy or power. In- 
Mil'licicnt cxhalalion prevents the oxygen from eoniin^ 
into thorough contact, with those parls in the hin.">; 
\\liei-e the residiud ;iir stii^rnntes. Stn^njiiiii.u: air al- 
lows bacleria to I'einain in poorly ventilated spots, 
settle down and cause pneumonia, tuberculosis, and 
many other- infectious diseases. 

Many nervous people and those with low vitality 
have a way of eeasinjjf to breathe for ei!';hl or ten sec- 
onds, and then to breathe two or three times in rather 
quick succession, which peculiarity alone is likely 
further to depress them. Inspiration increases, ex- 
piration decreases the number of heart-beats. The 
heart slops entirely when for one or two minutes we 
stop breathing and the luniks are kept in a state 
of full inspiration. 

While it is possible lo jjfive the child gymnastics be- 
fore the sixth year, it is not necessary; the child ^efs 
enough exercise in play. He^inninir with entrance to 
the kindergarten, natural conditions an 1 changed to 
artilicial ones, and the child must be tauirht at once, 
how to stand, breathe, and walk correctly. Many a 
poor youngster's life and health could have been 

ICG 



TIIKIIl CARU AND (MllfcK 

sa\ed if I lie teacher li;i<! spent daily only ten minutes 
dealing with this matter. Thin ought to bo imprest 
strongly on every teacher, as there exists no excuse 
for omission. No lime is lost, as sound children 
pay better attention a,nd learn more quickly than sick 
oin-;. Statistics show that those children who are best 
developed bodily, are allny.el her the most satisfactory 
pupils arid later the best citizens. 

Up to tho forty-fifth year any form of exercise 
wilhiii a cornmonsensc limit can 1m recommended; Ridoriy 
after that age, every exercise should be avoided which i'i>i 
demands very quick action, like running, jumping, 
etc., as it may overtax the heart. No matter how 
can; I'u I ly a person lives, tho "wear and tear of forty- 
five years has lowered the elasticity of the tissue. 
We see this, as mentioned before, in the eye, which, 
even in those who feel young, shows signs of de- 
creased elasticity, necessitating glasses at the age of 
forty-five or fifty. It is the same with the hoart, 
and many who try to do at forty and fifty what 
they did at twenty, because they feel like youngsters, 
lire permanently injured, as the heart remains over- 
stretched. It often loses its youthful ela:;l icily with 
out showing symptoms, until tested under a strain un- 
natural for that age. 

Walking through the country does not cost much 
money and is a great health-restorer. Kor the lover Wuikinn 
of nature, it is a pleasure to walk alone; others do ^ 1 of :'"" r 
better to chooso congenial company, until they have 

LT 



THE HEART AND BLOO.D- VESSELS 

learned to understand the language of field, trees, and 
mountains. Most art is poorly imitated nature and only 
a few great masters express beautiful thoughts. If 
people only knew how much superior are nature's 
works to those of man, they would feel sorry for time 
they often waste in art galleries and theaters. 

Walking and work in nature-clubs under congenial 
leaders are decidedly more wholesome recreation than 
the average uninstructive moving-picture show. 
Walks in a city are less to be recommended, because 
noises make the brain vibrate, whether we realize it or 
not. Air in large cities, especially in business centers, 
is always contaminated by a mixture of dust, smoke, 
and humidity. The lungs protect themselves against 
such impurities by a slight contraction of their small- 
est vesicles ; in the country air enters freely and with- 
out obstruction. 

It is a pity that children are not told more about 
the great benefit and pleasure to be derived from 
tramping through fields and woods, over mountains 
and plains. This taste, when once cultivated, grows 
stronger with years and is a precious possession for 
every one, especially for the man of little means. It 
is much neglected in this country, but a source of de- 
light to inhabitants of Europe, especially of Switzer- 
land, Southern Germany, and Norway. Boy Scouts 
and Camp-fire Girls are pioneers of a most wholesome 
kind of recreation. A warning is given not to begin 
at once with walks of many miles, especially in the 
mountains, when during the whole year little exercise 

168 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

has been taken. Further, while it may be beneficial 
to walk slowly ten miles, taking one hundred steps a 
minute, it might be injurious to walk very fast for 
half that distance. 

For horseback riding the old saying is true that * ' for 
the inside of a man nothing is better than the outside 
of a horse." No parents, who can afford it, should 
neglect having their children taught to ride, box, sail, 
and last, but not least, to swim. The mastering of 
such things later in life is connected with undesirable 
excitement and effort, which detracts from their good 
effect. Farming, hunting, and similar kinds of bodily 
occupation have been adopted by many great men 
as a balance and rest for hard-worked brains. 

For all those who have no time or opportunity for 
outdoor exercise, may be advised the gymnastics recom- Systems of 
mended by the Danish army officer, Muller, in his 
book "My System." Being written for his country- 
men, it fights some bad habits which the reading pub- 
lic of the United States have already overcome with 
better education and hygiene. His system keeps the 
skin, bowels, sex organs, and lungs normal; it con- 
siders the development of the muscles of the arms, 
legs, neck, and trunk sufficiently to keep the whole 
body in good form and it hardens against catching 
cold, as some of the exercises are taken naked. The 
ablution he recommends in the middle of the exercises 
can be omitted or made with salt water of a tem- 
perature which does not shock the nerves. 

169 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

People who never have taken any kind of gymnastics 
should begin by taking each exercise only three times, 
gradually increasing, in two or three weeks, to the 
number recommended by Muller; people over forty- 
five should never try to do more than three-quarters 
of the number he indicates. They must be taken so 
slowly that the number of pulse-beats does not increase 
more than fifteen in one minute. If any fatigue is felt 
during the habitual daily work, the number of exer- 
cises should be reduced at once. If properly done, 
the quality of everything accomplished during the day 
should be better than before. 

The correct position of the body while taking the 
exercises and the keeping of this position during the 
day is of great importance. Taken in an incorrect 
position the exercises do harm ; their benefit is lost if, 
during the day, by returning to an incorrect posture, 
vital organs are again prest from their normal place. 
Many cases of constipation, nervousness, headache, 
large hips and abdomen, general discomfort, and lack 
of vitality disappear by giving fifteen or thirty minutes 
daily to the Muller system. Other systems may be 
just as good, but some develop strong muscles on arms 
and legs and, by neglecting chest and abdominal or- 
gans, build up an inharmoniously developed body. 

Exercise for Chronic invalids who have not the free use of all 

Thot^Vith their limbs can improve their general health and abil- 

sick and weak ities by taking such exercises as are possible to them. 

With a well-compensated heart, in spite of struc- 

170 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

tural defects, any work and exercise can be under- 
taken which come within the limits of the person's 
strength. Any exercise must be avoided which greatly 
intensifies the heart-action, or is followed by exhaus- 
tion, pain, or excitement. Habit must be considered. 
A person accustomed from childhood to climb moun- 
tains can continue to do so without injury, while a 
plainsman, with the same condition of the heart, 
might harm himself badly by climbing even a small 
hill. The mountaineer may injure his heart by riding 
an easy horse when he has not learned to ride, but the 
cowboy may continue to ride a bucking bronco in spite 
of valvular heart-trouble. No sensible person will put 
unnecessary strain, by violent exercise or emotions, on 
a good working heart, which, however, on account of 
structural defects, is handicapped. 

There is a system of walking especially devised for 
those with hearts, not seriously sick, but in need of 
being strengthened. It consists of taking walks, of 
gradually increased length, on roads that gradually 
grow steeper. In many health-resorts such roads are 
marked according to the incline and length and if 
these walks are taken judiciously they strengthen the 
heart without risk of overtaxation. 

When compensation and circulation are disturbed 
in heart disease, all gymnastic exercises are strictly 
forbidden until the patient has improved by rest and 
medicine and is able to remain in bed comfortably in 
an ordinary recumbent position, able to talk for five 
minutes and to walk one hundred steps without be- 

171 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

coming short of breath. Then only such exercises are 
allowed as are easily within the limits of the patient's 
strength. The exercise must decrease the number of 
heart-beats when the pulse is over eighty-five, and in- 
crease them eight to ten beats when the pulse is under 
sixty. 

SLEEP AND SLEEPLESSNESS 

Sleep: Sleep bears the same relation to activity as 
the crest to the bottom of a wave both are parts of 
one unit. During rest and sleep the cells of the 
body are purified of fatigue-products, caused by 
activity, and are made ready for new work. In 
searching for an explanation of the nightly aggrava- 
tion of certain symptoms, especially pain, a rhyth- 
mical daily and nightly change of the chemical compo- 
sition of the blood has been found to occur. For a 
long time it has been known that plant life is not the 
same during the day as during the night, altho we 
know that this is caused in part by the action of light. 

As mentioned before, sleep is a function of the body, 
like the beating of the heart and the respiration. 
Twenty days without food do less harm than four 
days without sleep. The muscles subject to our will 
rest entirely during sleep, and all involuntary organs, 
like the heart, lungs, and intestines, work automatical- 
ly without interference of the brain, which, during 
waking hours, continually influences their actions. The 
heart-beats of babies during sleep are eight to ten less 

172 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

per minute than when awake; the respirations de- 
crease one-third, and the speed of the bowel-action is 
lowered in the same proportion. 

Altho sleep is of vital importance to the brain, it 
is not necessary to lose consciousness entirely. People Test of 
who complain of having suffered from insomnia for Sufficient 
weeks, months, and years, believe that they do not sleep 
because the brain works. The brain has a conscious 
and a sub-conscious action. During waking hours the 
conscious part is that which does, or, at least should do, 
the work ; it needs rest at night and receives it if con- 
scious action is stopt. No serious harm is done if sub- 
or half -conscious action of the brain continues, pro- 
vided people do not worry, and so make themselves 
miserable about so-called insomnia. 

Proof as to whether or not a person has enough sleep 
is his condition in the daytime. A few hours of good 
sleep are sufficient for some people. It is altogether 
foolish to decide about the sufficiency of sleep by its 
length. People who are satisfied with what sleep 
they get feel all right; those who worry and fret 
over their inability to sleep not only remain poor 
sleepers but become hypochondriacs. A restful, tho 
sleepless, night may bring strength and recuperation, 
while a few hours of worry and anger in the morn- 
ing hours, just before getting up, may nullify the 
good effects of many hours of sleep. 

A baby during the first month of life normally 
sleeps when it is not taking nourishment. This is best 
for it, as, during the short while it is awake, its brain 

173 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-YESSELS 

receives an immense variety of impressions, since 
everything in this world is new to it. Up to the 
fifth year twelve hours of sleep are sufficient; up 
to the fourteenth ten, and later eight hours are enough. 
Eight hours of sleep are enough to recuperate from or- 
dinary work; after a longer rest the nervous system 
does not change over promptly to an intensely active 
condition. After excessive effort ten to twelve or 
even more hours of sleep may not be too much to 
restore the equilibrium. 

Those who sleep soundest in the early part of night 
do their best work in the forenoon; others who sleep 
better in the early morning hours are at their best late 
in the afternoon. There are more nervous than per- 
fectly healthy people who have the latter type of sleep. 
Frequently this is caused by eating heavy meals late, 
also by the habit of retiring late, after the mind has 
been intensely occupied in the evening. 

Sleep is a part of one's personality and manner of 
life, and depends upon what we do and feel during 
the day. Very stupid people can sleep at any time 
and those of tremendous will-power can force them- 
selves to do so. In the one case there is nothing on the 
mind and in the other everything of interest can be 
voluntarily excluded. In either case the fatigue-prod- 
ucts of the automatic organs the heart, bowels, etc. 
are sufficient to induce sleep. A well-known case is 
that of a man who was stupid, deaf in one ear, and 
blind in one eye, and could always fall asleep when he 

174 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

closed the good eye and lay on the good ear. Napoleon 
could sleep like a new-born babe just before an im- 
portant battle, as, with his power of concentration, he 
could stop the action of his brain, just as one can turn 
off a faucet. 

In insomnia the night's rest will improve after the 
days have been made normal. In most cases, the man- cause and 
ner of life we recommend in this book brings normal T Cure of 

. . Insomnia 

sleep, especially if one remains out of doors a great 
part of the day and never gets up later than seven 
o'clock in the morning. Normal sleep can not be ex- 
pected if one remains in bed until ten or twelve in 
the morning, altho it may seem rational after a wake- 
ful night. Experience has proven that in the latter 
case midday rest is more beneficial. 

Sleep is disturbed by pain, worry, emotions, over- 
work, or excesses of any kind. After the most 
pressing demands of rest are filled by the first 
few hours of good sleep, a little discomfort, as too 
much acid in the stomach or gas in the intestines, is 
likely to keep sensitive people awake. We are what 
our habits make us, and necessarily any one, who, for 
any length of time or for any reason, has his natural 
sleep disturbed, is likely to acquire a form of habitual 
insomnia or broken sleep, just as a mother, who for 
years has been used to having her rest broken by a 
baby, will wake at certain times during the night years 
afterward. 

A healthy person can sleep when the time offers, in- 

175 



THE HEAET AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

dependent of noises and little disturbances, but nerv- 
ous people often can not. Generally they are not so 
much disturbed by the noise itself as by their own 
anger, caused by thinking the noise should be stopt. 
This idea should first be given up; or they had 
better choose a quiet, dark room and put wax or cot- 
ton in their ears to exclude sounds. 

Only those who in childhood were afraid of being 
left in the dark and, on this account, acquired the 
habit of sleeping with a light in the room, should con- 
tinue to do so. A dark room gives much more thor- 
ough rest. Light itself acts as a stimulus, even tho 
the eyes are closed. 

A room or a bed that is a little too warm or too cold 
may prevent sleep. Windows should always be kept 
open, but in extremely cold weather the skin should 
be protected as any irritation may interfere with rest. 

After outside disturbances are removed, the poor 
sleeper should remove those which originate within 
himself. For instance, a sour stomach may be re- 
lieved by bicarbonate of soda, or cold feet by a warm 
foot-bath, or the bladder and bowels by evacuation. 
For hunger and exhaustion a cracker or a glass of hot 
water may be taken, or the time for supper may be 
changed, when one feels that it has been taken too near 
bed time or too long before. Many a patient has been 
cured of supposed nervous insomnia by an earlier and 
more easily digested evening meal. Coffee and tea are 
better dispensed with entirely, or taken only for break- 
fast, and not during the day. Alcohol keeps many 

176 



THEIR CARE AND CUKE 

people awake, while some get a better rest after drink- 
ing a bottle of good beer. 

If one is self-conscious and finds it a strain to be 
in the company of others, it is better to remain 
alone evenings, occupied with any kind of favorite di- 
version such as playing solitaire, etc. Others are better 
off playing a quiet game of cards with congenial, not 
fault-finding, partners, or by conversing on indifferent 
subjects, which drive away unpleasant thoughts and 
fears. Many are benefited by a game of billiards, or 
by thirty to fifty minutes' walking in the open air. 

People of self-control who are able at will to make 
their mind cease working, do not suffer from in- 
somnia; those who are not able to control the action 
of their minds often sleep poorly, especially if they 
are burdened with unpleasant thoughts. It does no 
good to resolve to forget disturbing thoughts, as 
that only keeps them in mind in a negative form. 
It is necessary to supplant them by more pleasant 
or indifferent ones. At times of depression many 
people find it difficult to see in their lives anything 
that is pleasant; in such case they must concentrate 
their attention on some indifferent subject. First, 
they must relax the entire body and then, perhaps, 
picture to themselves an advertising sign with the 
word "sleep" on it, outlined in electric lights, 
where one letter lights up after another. This is 
easily done if one tries in his imagination to watch 
with eyes closed and in a thoroughly relaxed posi- 
tion, the letters of the sign light up and become 

177 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

dark. Thinking of nothing else he surely will go 
to sleep. Many similar devices, which divert the 
mind, are effective. 

Beading a pleasant, wholesome story, especially with 
the light falling from behind on the paper, sometimes 
breaks the continuity and power of disturbing 
thoughts. Biographies, history, or books describing 
foreign countries, etc., are preferable to stupid or 
exciting novels. 

If all this does not have the desired effect, a person 
accustomed to taking cold baths may take a cold 
plunge for five seconds and without drying himself 
put on his night-gown and go to bed. Very few people 
come out of a cold bath with the same thoughts they 
had on entering and the humidity on the skin, when it 
is not dried, acts almost like a wet pack, which is 
a great sleep-producer. 

As the brain should do less work during sleep, so it 
should contain less blood than in waking hours. A 
warm foot-bath, or a cold foot-bath for people who 
have a quick reaction, draws the blood from the brain 
and gives to the brain-cells a more appropriate circu- 
lation for the quieting-down time. The same effect 
may be produced by putting on a pair of stockings wet 
with cold water, these to be covered with another pair 
of dry ones; this often works like a sleeping-draft. 
It has practically the same effect as bromids, without 
their disagreeable qualities. 

Any one who knows the temperature of the bath 
suited to himself can procure a good night's rest 

178 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

by taking an indifferent bath of from twenty to 
thirty minutes' duration just before going to bed. 
Packs are sure sleep-producers. A cold compress on 
the neck often induces sleep. We refer the reader 
to Chapter X in regard to baths, packs, etc. 

The Muller exercises bring sleep, but they must 
be taken slowly, paying especial attention to breath- 
ing and, if the room is not too cold, all with the 
body naked. The sponge-bath should be omitted, or, 
in summer, taken at the end of the exercise, when 
the patient should put on his night-gown without 
drying himself. 

People who work very actively during the day 
should relax, or rest for a short time at midday, as 
sometimes the brain acquires by very tense work 
such an impetus that it can not quiet down at night 

Insomnia is often a fixt idea with patients. It may 
become advisable to break the habit by giving a sleep- 
ing-medicine for a few days or weeks in succession. 
There is not the least danger of establishing the 
drug habit if life is otherwise regulated according to 
the suggestions given in this book. 

When there exists bodily pain, shortness of breath, 
infectious disease, etc., these naturally have to be cured 
as the cause before the insomnia disappears. Peo- 
ple with heart disease sometimes have insomnia, as 
a result of spells of angina and shortness of breath. 
Sleep returns only after these symptoms have been 
relieved. As this may take a few weeks, the patient 
should not hesitate to take a sedative, if the doctor 

179 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

prescribes it, as heart and lungs need rest from the 
continual interference of the brain. Artificial sleep 
for a few nights advances such patients on the way 
to better health. 

Sleep out-of-doors rests and restores one more quick- 
ly than that taken in the best ventilated room. In a 
badly ventilated room we re-inhale the substances of 
which nature tries to relieve the body during sleep. 
Even with the windows wide open, this can not be 
entirely prevented. For corresponding reasons, the 
sheets of bed patients used during the night ought 
to be ventilated and interchanged with others used 
during the daytime. 



180 



IX 



SEXUAL LIFE 

1. Victims of the conflict between the normal instinct, eco- 

nomic conditions, and Christian civilization. 

2. Sexual individuality. 

3. Causes of prostitution. 

4. The sexual question an educational question. 

5. Woman bears as fruit a child, like a fruit-tree its fruit. 

6. Education for marriage. 

7. The modern aspect of sexual diseases and of more nearly; 

equal rights for the sexes as now less differentiated. 



181 



IX 



SEXUAL LIFE 

The continued existence of everything living is due 
to a law that every cell or unit of cells plants, animals, 
or men is ready and anxious to produce another of 
its own kind, either alone or in cooperation with an- 
other of the opposite sex. Man is subject to this law. 
!A few can escape its stringency by substituting some 
product, as a child of the mind, for one of the body, 
and by following a manner of living which sys- 
tematically strengthens the power of mind over mat- 
ter. This fact is neither generally understood nor 
respected, with the consequence that the imperative 
demands of man's so-called animal nature come into 
conflict with our present-day moral and economic 
conditions. The result is that of three men in large 
cities one meets in business or society at least two 
probably suffer, or have suffered, from sexual disease, 
and that thousands of women are treated or operated 
on for trouble originated from the same cause. With 
the exception of tumors, some displacements of the 
womb, and the after effects of child-birth, all female 
diseases are acquired by infection from men. 

Ninety-nine out of a hundred patients suffering 
from softening of the brain (paresis), have had 

183 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

syphilis. The increase in this sickness in the United 
States is tremendous. Locomotor ataxia is in all 
cases to be traced to the same trouble. A great 
number of cases of heart disease, chronic rheumatism, 
hardening of the blood-vessels, sudden death, and 
aneurisms, are the outcome of sexual disease. For 
the care of the offspring of the syphilitic and gonor- 
rhic there is spent annually in the United States 
alone at least fifty million dollars. 

In large cities one counts one prostitute to eighty 
to one hundred and twenty male voters. The 
twelve hundred licensed prostitutes in San Francisco 
are visited each week by from twenty to thirty 
thousand men; the six thousand tolerated ones in 
Chicago by from one hundred and twenty to one 
hundred and sixty thousand men; those in New 
York by double this number. 

These facts are sufficient to prove that we must 
find a more wholesome way than the present of ad- 
justing what is left of the animal in us to the de- 
mands of modern civilization. 

These distressing conditions would have been 
fought long ago if people had not believed when 
their friends or relatives died or suffered from certain 
diseases that they were the very rare exceptions 
caused by overwork, a probability about as great as 
that a poor man will receive a present of a thousand 
dollars that is not due him. 

Some people are born without sexual instinct. 
Others succeed in transforming the sexual into some 

184 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

other form of energy. Occupation alone is not suffi- 
cient. Something must be achieved, produced; that 
is, the labor must show some result either decided 
self-improvement, or a business built up, a machine 
constructed, a kindergarten or some charity work 
efficiently managed, etc. Left-over energy must be 
used up by bodily exercise and food must be taken 
which does not stimulate the animal passions. Very 
little meat should be eaten, little alcohol, and few 
spices. 

It has never been proven that permanent sup- 
pression of the sexual instinct is desirable, or that 
it is beneficial; but it has been shown that perma- 
nent suppression becomes for many the cause of 
bodily and mental harm and of much lowered work- 
ing capacity. This is not a theory; it is a fact and 
is denied only by ignorance and prejudice. The 
problem is: how can men and women at the same 
time satisfy the demands of a Christian civilization 
and those of their bodies? For the present there 
exists no other solution than an early marriage. 

By mistaking effect for cause we can not, by sup- 
pression of the evil of prostitution, solve the sex 
problem. Prostitution is only a result. It is a sup- 
ply created by demand. There are six causes for it: 
first, incompetent teachers, who keep children in un- 
suspecting ignorance and do not inspire them with 
the right ideals; second, cheerless homes with the 
saloon as the only relief for a desperate lack of 
wholesome recreation; third, the example of men 

185 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

and women, sexually unprincipled, who enjoy the 
highest standing in art, literature, business, and 
society; fourth, wages insufficient for a young man 
to support a wife on and for a young girl to satisfy 
the necessities of a modest life without following an 
evil course; fifth, the indifference with which we 
allow the degenerate to propagate, and, sixth, the 
conventional code of sexual ethics we accept for 
men. 

Every social question is an educational one. It 
is a duty to warn children against dangers of which 
they are ignorant. Normal men, like animals, adapt 
themselves to their environments. Only by special 
effort can they be prevented from acquiring the 
habits of their associates. It is too late to change the 
present generation, but parents should, in justice to 
the health of their boys and the happiness of their 
girls, teach them that what is wrong for one should 
just as strictly be forbidden, in fairness and honesty, 
to the other. The social evil must necessarily dis- 
appear when boys and men do not support it with 
their money. 

The teacher must take his share of the responsibil- 
ity. A good opportunity to approach the subject is 
given when he discusses the laws of health and the 
life of animals and plants. Many immigrant parents 
have a different code of sexual morality from that 
which is held as desirable in this country. They 
take their lesson from our fellow creatures, the beast 

186 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

in the fields; we believe in the elevation of man 
to a higher level, and the teacher should explain to 
the child why. 

All over the world there are celebrations at the 
time when boys and girls enter womanhood and man- 
hood. Christians and Jews alike have confirmations 
in church. The original purpose to have a ceremony 
at that time has been forgotten or neglected. It was 
meant to familiarize the child with sex-life. Many 
children now continue to wander in the dark; some 
go right; but not a few go wrong, become diseased, 
victims of quacks and hospitals, riddles to themselves 
and educators, and last, but not least, become later on 
the husbands or wives of unfit partners. A person 
who once thoroughly understood that he or she 
might become an invalid for life, and the parent of 
a degenerate child, by marrying a diseased person, 
probably could not be induced to do so by the most 
violent passion. 

The different code of sexual ethics for men and 
women has been accepted because it has been thought 
that men's and women's natures were different. This 
is not entirely true. 

A girl has a mother who has borne children; her 
grandmother, great-grandmother and for many other 
generations her ancestors have borne children. She, 
too, has been born with a body which, at a certain 
age, is blooming; it is pushing and pulling to 
bring forth a fruit the child. This energy, unused, 
and, not wisely directedc in the course of time may 

187 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

turn inward, overstimulate or paralyze functions, dry 
up the body, cause restlessness, depression, disordered 
digestion, a deceitful, mischievous disposition, erup- 
tions of the skin, pain on the top and the back of 
the head, impoverished blood and most frequently 
a great variety of disturbing nervous symptoms of 
the heart. These symptoms are treated by physicians 
as sickness, while they really are a sign of health, 
in so far as a healthy body rebels in that way against 
suppression by an abnormal life. 

When a woman bears an illegitimate child (often 
conceived not for love of a man, but because an 
exquisite motherly instinct was longing for a baby 
to rear), such a woman is shunned by society and 
made an outcast; compared with this, the burning 
of widows in India is less cruel. When there is 
immorality, but no child, the sensitive conscience of 
some women troubles them until the end of their 
lives for having committed the sin which society 
willingly forgives in men. 

Early marriages are considered a failure by many 
who doubt whether, with modern opportunities for the 
education of women, it can be expected that two peo- 
ple shall feel the same toward each other when they 
marry and before the character is firmly formed 
as they will ten or twenty years later, when they 
may have developed in some entirely different direc- 
tions. 

Married life can not be entered into to-day with 

188 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

the same expectations as a hundred years ago. 
Women and their station have changed a great deal 
since then. Formerly a husband owned his wife 
much like a piece of property. She was generally 
willing that this should be so, but, if not, she was 
compelled to abide by his wishes. To-day women 
expect a certain amount of freedom and can be com- 
pared to beautiful flowers, but no longer to clinging 
vines. But most men wish in their hearts, without 
realizing it, that their wives would give up willingly 
all their freedom, as a Chinese woman is necessarily 
obliged to do when her feet are crippled, or a 
Mohammedan woman when she is shut up in a 
harem. 

Education for marriage, that is, the right under- 
standing of what can be expected and what must be 
given, is needed. This could probably remove most 
of the troubles that to-day cause unhappiness and 
divorces. The main points are: to be rightly mated; 
a conscientious effort to make each other's life happy 
and to be mutually helpful; implicit confidence in 
each other; a division of work and children. For 
the rest freedom should be given so that each may live 
according to his own individuality and not be forced 
to cripple his personality by living a life of renun- 
ciation. The danger of mismated couples is that 
the husband becomes untrue and the wife either 
untrue or sick, or both, provided they were not born 
without sexual needs, a fortunate thing in such cases, 
when at least they are likely not to irritate and 

189 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

humble each other and stay in the home. Thorough 
sympathy and partnership may be expected, but not 
a thorough understanding of the most intimate 
thoughts and ideals. Men and women are different 
and, if complex, neither can have more than a gen- 
eral idea of the inner life which the other is lead- 
ing. While the manly man may complement his 
wife, only the effeminate man may understand her, 
but he will be a disappointment in most other direc- 
tions. The same holds true in the case of the 
womanly and the masculine woman. From the 
lives of great men we learn that all felt lonely at 
times, but that the search for a soul-mate generally 
turned out a fool's chase. 

People of decent habits, who are true, who love 
each other, and enter into marriage at the age of 
twenty with a firm intention of adjusting themselves 
to each other's character, and to make sacrifices as 
far as consistent with the real necessities of their 
own individualities, will still be happily joined at 
seventy, even tho they may have grown different in 
knowledge and experience. Those who marry young 
only because infatuated, tho uncongenial in character 
and tastes, necessarily drift apart. When the pas- 
sion which alone attracted them to each other is no 
longer a strong, vital force, they have nothing left in 
common to hold them together. 

Even with present-day liberties, the single blessed- 
ness of youth becomes in later life a God-forsaken 
loneliness. A marriage late in life brings only an 

190 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

unsatisfactory substitute for that grateful under- 
standing and loving consideration which may be 
born earlier of many years of common joy and sor- 
row attending the existence, protection, and happi- 
ness of a family. 

For the wide discussion of sexual life at the present 
time, there are two reasons. The first is two medical 
discoveries. Professor Wasserman made ten years 
ago a test by which it was shown that syphilis germs 
may live many years after the disease was acquired, 
and then often help to produce the saddest diseases with 
which the human race is afflicted. Thirty years pre- 
viously Professor Neisser had discovered the germ of 
that other most prevalent sexual disease, gonorrhea, 
which, as we know to-day, is the most common cause 
of invalidism of women and of blindness in children. 
These facts previously had not been known. Pub- 
lic spirited men and women naturally became in- 
terested in this vital subject, after they once under- 
stood that the worst forms of insanity, heart and 
spinal diseases will disappear when we succeed in 
stamping out sexual diseases. 

The second reason is that we have entered upon a 
period of evolution when the minds and characters of 
men and women are far less different than they 
formerly were. Most reasons why a woman should 
be unfit for the duties and rights for which a man 
is considered fit have been removed. 

191 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

The male and female embryo are, in the beginning, 
alike. Nature then makes the sex organs different 
and leaves the rest of the body and mind of both 
sexes similar. Later in life they grow different, the 
degree of difference depending, to a great extent, 
on the manner of living. Until thirty years ago a 
woman's life was, from first to last, entirely different 
from that of a man. She took care of the home and 
reared the children. He attended to everything else. 
Both had, for the greater part of each day, different 
environments and went through opposite experiences; 
the women leading a far more sheltered life than 
now, when they fill, as employees, stores, offices, and 
factories, doing the same kind of work as men. Both 
at present have the same struggles and surround- 
ings; from childhood up, body and mind practically 
receive the same training. The result necessarily is 
that both grow more alike. From a biological stand- 
point, there is no good reason to believe that the ana- 
tomical condition of the pelvis alone renders women 
less fit to vote than men. Neither have we any 
longer the moral right to allow one sex to do what is 
forbidden to the other, both having practically the 
same duties. 

At present sexual starvation makes many good 
women abnormal, and sexual errors many men in- 
sane. We close this chapter with a quotation from 
Guglielmo Ferrero: 

" Those on whom fortune has smiled, who have 

192 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

succeeded in life and are tranquil possessors of the 
good things of this world are, as a rule, reluctant to 
believe that, in their midst and side by side, are 
others who live in misery and that there are many 
who may, not without justification, complain about 
their lot. There is a sort of unconscious cruelty in 
the optimism of healthy, happy people." 

Such persons do not wish to be disturbed by 
thoughts of lonely tears, blind children and insane 
men, but they should kindly remember how they can 
render great service by informing themselves and 
the world of the true facts, since public opinion alone 
can strike the shackles from the unfortunates. 



I3 



THE SKIN AS A PEOTECTOR 

1. Some important functions of the skin. 

2. Air baths harden, strengthen, and quiet the nerves. 

3. Lukewarm-water baths cleansing, quieting, and anti-con- 

stipating. 

4. Cold baths and by whom they may be taken. 

5. The effect of ocean baths of different duration. 

6. Sweat-baths. 

7. Hot and cold applications. 

8. The heart-heal (Nauheim) baths. 

9. A new lease of life. 



195 



X 



THE SKIN AS A PEOTECTOR 

Practically all the knowledge people have with re- 
gard to the skin is that a beautiful skin is attract- The Function 
ive, and that it is proper to make it clean and agree- 
able when it has become ugly, greasy, or perspires 
too easily. Some remember that if two-thirds of the 
skin were burned one could not live, and but very 
few realize that it performs in a wonderful way a 
great variety of important functions. 

Let us imagine that the sensibility of the skin has 
been lost. We then would not know whether a 
needle were lying between, or sticking into our 
fingers, whether the finger is cold or warm, wet or 
dry; nor would we be able to enjoy the touch of a 
friendly hand. Most of our communication with the 
outside world would be cut off. This happens in 
certain diseases, where, on account of a loss of sensi- 
bility, the patient may go around with a big hole in 
the sole of his foot, or with a needle sticking into 
the finger, without knowing it. 

The skin is a main factor in the distribution of 
heat and blood, being provided with a network of 
many millions of blood-vessels which act like ra- 
diators of a heating plant. They automatically close 
and open more or less, depending on the outside 

197 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

temperature, and the necessity of giving off heat 
when there is too much produced in the body. It 
is clear that the skin becomes, by this mechanism, 
the means of allowing the system to continue in the 
same equable temperature for which its organs are 
naturally fitted, independently of the weather. A 
skin unable to adjust itself to the surrounding 
temperature shifts the current of blood to parts 
where the blood-vessels have been previously weak- 
ened by sickness. For instance, if a person's feet 
become chilled, the blood, which can not flow easily 
in blood-vessels contracted by cold, will be shifted 
to somewhere else. Naturally it goes to the point 
of least resistance, namely, to blood-vessels whose 
elasticity has been weakened, generally, by a pre- 
vious sickness. A person who previously suffered 
from sore throat is likely to have a new inflam- 
mation; another who once had neuritis in the arm 
will again feel pain in the old spot, etc. This is 
likely to occur when any part of the skin which does 
not adjust itself properly is exposed to cold. 

The skin, with its millions of pores, offers a large 
surface where excretion and evaporation may take 
place. The vaudeville artist who varnished his skin 
so that he would look like a bronze statue was suffo- 
cated by waste which needed, and could not find, an 
outlet. The skin of every person gives off an odor as 
characteristic as his facial expression. Police dogs can 
trace people for miles, even after the people have 
just taken a bath. Sensitive people are sometimes 

198 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

affected by a person's odor as much as by his appear- 
ance. Experienced physicians can diagnose many 
diseases by their odor. The skin relieves, by evap- 
oration and perspiration, the kidneys of work. In 
scarlet fever, in some forms of typhoid, measles, 
etc., we can tell by the appearance of the skin if 
the patient is more or less dangerously sick. Altho 
such diseases are manifested on the skin, the whole 
system is affected and it was formerly thought that 
nature used the skin to throw off the poison. Fol- 
lowing this trend of thought, physicians used lini- 
ments to make eruptions on the skin, hoping, in 
that way, to draw the disease from the inside to 
the outside and thus remove the danger. 

Any subject in nature which is studied thoroughly 
becomes fascinating. An expert would enjoy writing 
about the wonders and beauty of the skin. Here we 
wish only to open new sources of interest and re- 
mind the reader that the skin is an important vital 
organ. 

Air and water are the means we possess of keep- 
ing the skin beautiful and in good condition to per- 
form at all times its proper functions. Air-baths 
are almost unknown and unused, altho an excellent 
tonic and sedative for the nervous system and the 
best means of accustoming the skin to changes in 
the weather. Water-baths mean to the layman 
cleanliness and enjoyment. They are a source of 
danger and torture when wrongly prescribed by 

199 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

a physician, and constitute a great help in the con- 
servation of health and the cure of disease, if 
judiciously taken as advised by a man who knows. 

The oldest books dealing with the care of the body 
recommend baths. To make sure that people would 
wash themselves sufficiently, most religions demanded 
ablutions as a preparation necessary to effective 
prayers. For thousands of years, people have trav- 
eled to mineral springs and every century two or 
three men have become celebrated for cures they 
performed with water. The air-baths, however, 
which the Greeks and Romans favored and advo- 
cated, were entirely forgotten for over fifteen hun- 
dred years. 

Man is born with a skin intended for life in the 
open air. Coverings were originally used only to 
assist in the adjustment of the body to climate. 
They were never intended to form a continual and 
permanent second skin. Air-baths simply mean ex- 
posing the naked body to air. In our climate they 
should not be taken for a longer period than ten 
minutes at the longest in cold weather; ten to 
twenty minutes in warm weather, and longer only 
when the naked body feels comfortably warm without 
exercising. Arms, legs, and hands should not be kept 
quiet in an air-bath of less than ninety degrees 
temperature. When, after dressing, the body feels 
chilly, exercise should be taken until one feels 
comfortable. With the power of adjustment which 

200 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

the healthy person has, he could remain naked all 
day in a temperate climate ; but an invalid would be 
harmed if the length of time and the temperature 
were not taken into consideration. 

Altho new-born babies can not afford to lose heat, 
and weak ones may be killed by exposure to cold, 
they are generally strong enough after the fifth 
week to remain naked every day for two to ten 
minutes in a room with a temperature of seventy-five 
degrees. Later on they should be allowed to play 
around the room naked for at least twenty minutes 
each day. Healthy children and adults should make 
it a habit to remain naked morning and evening for 
at least five minutes while making their toilet, which 
gives sufficient exercise to keep the body warm. 
This habit will harden the skin against catching 
cold. 

For nervous people who find it hard to be quiet, 
air-baths are a better and more powerful sedative 
than any kind of drugs. Nervous people generally 
find it easy to remain contented for several hours in a 
comfortably warm room when perfectly naked. The 
air invigorates them and, besides, the skin has an 
opportunity to throw off easier the irritating waste. 
People who are delirious from acute sickness and in- 
sanity often become quiet when the skin is exposed 
to the air. Up-to-date alienists hardly ever use the 
straight- jacket or stupefying medicines; they keep 
patients naked in large rooms of about eighty de- 
grees temperature, with warm water in individual 

201 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

basins arranged on the floor, which the patient may 
enter whenever he likes. The most restless and 
excited generally soon quiet down. 

A hot summer day is the best time for people 
with tender skins to begin their air-baths, which re- 
fresh and do not fatigue the body like cold baths 
of the same length. Altho efficient indoors, air-baths 
are more vitalizing when taken out-of-doors. Four 
stakes and a canvas around them are all that is 
needed to set up an open air-bath. 

Care must be taken not to expose the body, especial- 
ly the head, for any length of time to the rays of 
the sun. Sun-baths are a powerful irritant to the 
skin, often causing inflammation and eczemas. If, 
after a sun-bath of twenty minutes a patient is 
wrapt in blankets, he will perspire and easily lose 
from four to six pounds in weight. Sun-baths 
should be reserved for healthy people, or taken upon 
detailed prescription of a physician. For babies 
with rickets and older children with tuberculosis of 
the bones or joints, air- and light-baths achieve 
better and more permanent results than medicine 
and operations. There are sanitariums in Switzer- 
land which make a specialty of treating such diseases 
in this way. The results have to be seen to be be- 
lieved. 

After all that we know about the skin as an 
excretory organ, no explanation is needed as to 
why cleansing baths and ablutions are needed. Not 

202 



THEIR CAEE AND CURE 

only are they proper, but an absolute necessity for 
health. In Europe and South America skin diseases 
and syphilis are found in much uglier forms than 
in the United States, undoubtedly because our people 
are, to-day, the cleanest of the white race. 

Cleansing baths ought to be taken at a temperature 
of from ninety- two to ninety-six degrees ; some need cleansing and 
them a few degrees colder or warmer to be per- 
fectly comfortable. They should give the feeling 
neither of chilliness nor heat. After a person has 
found out just what his "indifferent" bath tempera- 
ture is, he can, if necessary, quiet his nerves with 
such a bath, regulate his circulation, and cure his 
constipation, which in many cases is the result of a 
cramped condition of some parts of the intestines. 
Taken daily for one to two months, for fifteen to 
twenty minutes, with the Muller exercises and the 
prescribed diet, they always regulate the action of 
the bowels. 

To find the right so-called "indifferent" temper- 
ature for a bath, we must bear in mind that the 
temperature of people differs, and must allow several 
degrees for the heat the body continually gives off. 
For example, if a person has an average temperature 
of ninety-seven degrees, the "indifferent" bath 
should be between ninety-three and ninety-five de- 
grees; for people with a temperature of ninety-five 
degrees, the bath temperature would be nearer ninety 
degrees, etc. If baths are given hotter or colder, 
they either stimulate or weaken and do not achieve 

203 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

the effect, which is only obtained when the body is 
comfortable and relaxed. 

During the last few years cold baths have not 
Cold Baths been recommended as much as formerly, when they 
were the favored prescription for most forms of 
nervousness and hysteria. It is true that they give 
a shock to those who are not used to them. To 
those who have taken them from childhood they 
mean no more than the cleaning of the teeth, or any 
other part of the daily toilet. They may be omitted 
in cases of nervousness, but should not be forbidden 
as a general principle. 

Babies from the eighth week, after the cleansing 
bath, should be washed off quickly with cold water, 
and from the tenth month should, if healthy, be dipt 
for a part of a second, but not longer, in cold water. 
Then cold baths can be kept up all through life, and 
have many points in their favor. 

Many excellent specialists in children's diseases 
advise keeping children clean, but not giving them 
baths for other purposes. They quite correctly say 
that a rightly fed child does not catch cold and 
that the air-baths are better than water-baths to the 
human body. However, cold water-baths have some 
merit. A short dip in cold water contracts the 
blood-vessels of the skin. The nerves report at 
once to the automatic centers in the brain "cold 
all over the skin." The blood-vessels are then wid- 
ened and more blood is sent to the surface of the 

204 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

body to bring back the normal temperature. For 
this reason cold baths are good training for the 
temperature-regulating apparatus, causing it to re- 
spond quickly to changes of temperature. It should 
never be necessary to dry the body carefully after 
an application of cold water, for the purpose of 
warming it, as the reaction alone, without friction, 
should make the body warm. 

The colder the bath the greater the reaction and, 
consequently, the warmer the body becomes, pro- 
vided one remains in the water for only a few sec- 
onds. After making an ice-cold snowball the hands 
become hot, but in a cool rain they are clammy and 
cold. 

Cold baths are forbidden to people who anywhere 
in the circulatory apparatus have a weak spot. In 
that moment when the cold water first touches the 
skin, the blood-vessels contract, the blood is prest 
out and pressure having thus been increased some- 
where else, is likely to cause a breakage, if there are 
hardened blood-vessels, or if a blood-vessel has been 
eroded by ulceration, for instance, in certain diseases 
of lungs or stomach. 

Cold baths should not be prescribed to nervous 
people who are not accustomed to them or who fear 
them. They feel weak afterward on account of the 
excitement and the shock. People accustomed to 
cold baths from childhood very seldom have rheu- 
matism, and for that reason are less often affected 
with heart disease. 

205 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

As the shock connected with a cold application 
corresponds in degree to the temperature of the 
water and the size of the area of the skin covered at 
one time, cold ablutions are endured better by nerv- 
ous people, if one part after another is sponged, 
especially if the cold sponge or towel is brought 
slowly into contact with the skin. The only trouble 
is that people are likely to take cold more easily, as 
the giving of a sponge bath takes longer than does 
the plunge of a few seconds. 

People who can stand cold baths may bathe in 
Ocean Baths the ocean where the salt and the motion of the 
waves gives quicker reaction. They should not re- 
main too long in the water when it is cold. If they 
stay beyond the first reaction, heat is taken away 
from the body, which has to be made up by in- 
creased oxidation and tissue-change; this is why 
prolonged cold baths, taken for weeks in succession, 
make people lose weight, and weaken those who have 
no surplus of strength. 

In southern climates, and wherever the temper- 
ature of the water is from seventy to eighty de- 
grees, ocean-baths may be taken for hours at a time 
and substituted for indifferent baths, as what is 
lacking in heat is made up by the presence of salts 
and the massage by the waves. It is not advisable to 
take a cold bath unless the body is warm when en- 
tering the bath. 

Chronically cold hands and feet should not be 
206 



THEIE CAEE AND CURE 

tolerated. The blood and heat which are lacking in 
one place are stored up in another, making it ready cold Hands 
soil for bacteria. In rare cases cold limbs are the and Feet 
result of general weakness and impoverished blood; 
in the vast majority, they are a sign of insufficient 
exercise, of poor digestion, thick overfed blood, and 
nervousness. It is interesting to note that the circu- 
lation of overfed people is much improved when 
they are bled or when the diet is cut down. From 
hot-water bottles and warm foot-baths the feet bor- 
row heat and remain warm for a time on account of 
the relaxation of the blood-vessels, but not perma- 
nently. A better result may be gained when two 
foot-bath tubs are put beside each other, one filled 
with cold the other with hot water, and in which 
hands and feet are bathed, one minute in the hot, 
then immediately two minutes in the cold, repeating 
the change three times, and finishing with the cold 
if the patient is able to take a brisk walk for half 
an hour, or with the hot if he has to remain quiet. 
To walk barefoot during the summer months, for a 
short time each day, improves the circulation for the 
entire year. 

One or two sweat-baths a month can be recom- 
mended to people who perspire little, lead a seden- Hot Baths and 

,. -. ,, _. _ _., Sweat-Baths 

tary life and eat more than they really need. The 
most easily tolerated sweat-baths are given in an 
electric-light cabinet and lasting for from fifteen to 
forty minutes. The head must be kept cool and 

207 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

the feet warm. An indifferent bath of eight min- 
utes' duration should follow immediately, then a 
rest of twenty minutes or longer, until the body has 
regained its normal temperature. The weight of a 
body, which contains too much liquid, can be low- 
ered from two to five pounds by one sweat-bath* 
This shows how much these baths can do for people 
who really need them. 

A sick heart, hardened blood-vessels of the brain, 
and sick lungs, do not adjust themselves quickly 
to a changed circulation, which becomes greatly al- 
tered by hot and sweat-baths. The head may become 
congested and a patient die suddenly from the break- 
ing of a blood-vessel in the brain or from exhaustion 
of the heart. 

Local application of heat, hot towels, and hot- 
water bags relieve pain and improve the circulation; 
they may be used to advantage in angina, when the 
blood-vessels of the heart are spasmodically con- 
tracted. For palpitation, an ice bag over the heart 
does good; which should, however, never be put di- 
rectly on the skin but wrapt in a piece of flannel. 
Cold, if sufficiently intense, deadens any pain but, 
if applied a long time, will contract the blood-vessels 
so much as to make it impossible for the blood to 
circulate, which may destroy the skin and under- 
lying organs. 

Certain salts, gases, or chemicals, added to the 

Mineral Baths bath-water, have healing influences on the surface 

of the skin; or may become absorbed and relieve 

208 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

some internal disorder; or may have a special 
effect on the nerves and circulation, as do the now 
so celebrated Nauheim, or carbonic acid, baths. A 
Nauheim bath contains bicarbonate of soda, a variety 
of salts similar to our cooking salt, and carbonic 
acid gas. Every one who has taken a bath in or- 
dinary and in salt water, knows that the body gets 
warm much more quickly after the salt-water bath. 
It is experimentally proven that acids, even when 
much diluted, applied to the skin, make it warm. 
Salt and acid contained in the water take the place of 
from four to five degrees of heat. The Nauheim 
baths, therefore, can be taken from four to five de- 
grees cooler than an ordinary water bath, and have 
the good effect of the warmer bath on blood-vessels, 
muscles, and nerves, without its drawbacks. 

By relaxing the blood-vessels all over the skin, 
these offer more room for the flow of blood, so that 
the heart can take care of the circulation with 
much less effort than when the blood-vessels were 
contracted. When lying in a Nauheim bath the blood 
flows from the abnormally congested heart, lungs, and 
brain of a patient into the blood-vessels of his skin, 
which is a great gain for the general equilibrium of 
the body. The effect of a Nauheim bath does not 
cease when the patient leaves the bath. Every day a 
little gain is stored up, and, after from four to 
six weeks of treatment, often the whole circulation 
and heart-action remain greatly and permanently 
improved. 

209 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

A Nauheim, or any other kind of carbonic acid 
bath, is to be recommended only when the heart has 
some reserve strength and the patient is able to walk 
at least two hundred steps and to talk five minutes 
without becoming short of breath. Nauheim baths 
are all wrong and do harm when the patient is 
dropsical, unable to lie in a half-horizontal position, 
or has badly hardened blood-vessels which are un- 
able to stand any sudden change of circulation. 
Such patients must first be helped by other means; 
Nauheim baths may be started at the proper time. 

A Nauheim bath may be given on two days in 
succession and omitted on the third day. The temper- 
ature should never be higher than ninety-four de- 
grees and each third bath should be cooled down two 
degrees until a temperature of eighty-nine degrees 
is reached. The first time the patient remains in the 
water for six minutes; the length may be increased 
each time two minutes until he stays fifteen or 
twenty minutes. The head must be kept cool, the 
room well ventilated and at a moderate tempera- 
ture. After the bath, a rest of one hour should 
be taken and only a little exercise engaged in dur- 
ing the day. The doctor should be present at the 
first bath to watch the heart-action, which can be 
done later for many patients from the same place 
by means of an apparatus called the " heart con- 
troller," which is an especially coiastructed micro- 
phone connected with the telephone. 

Nauheim baths may be taken in Nauheim, or in 

210 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

any other place where there is a carbonic acid salt- 
water spring, or the chemicals may be purchased in 
tablet form at a drugstore and added to ordinary 
water. 

No one who has had any experience with Nauheim 
baths, taken in connection with proper exercise and 
diet, doubts that they have prolonged the life of 
many patients. 

An excellent remedy for poor circulation, un- 
satisfactory sleep and for the removal of impurities packs and the 
from the blood are " packs. " A three-quarter pack Making of a 

New Man. 

is given by spreading on the bed a warm woolen 
blanket long enough to reach from the arm-pits to 
the ankle. Over the woolen blanket a linen sheet is 
spread, reaching from the feet to a point five fingers 
below the arm-pit. This linen sheet had been mois- 
tened thoroughly with cold water and wrung out as 
dry as possible. The patient lies with the arms held 
over the head on the wet sheet, in which he is wrapt ; 
then he is wrapt in the woolen blanket, after which 
he puts his arms down and the whole body is cov- 
ered with two more blankets. His position should 
be comfortable, the upper part of the back and head 
elevated as when asleep. A cold compress must be 
put on the forehead and changed whenever it gets 
warm. 

In "packs" the body gets warm after a short 
time, and the heat and increased blood-stream run- 
ning from the congested inner organs into the blood- 

211 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

vessels of the skin, gives the same effect as the Nau- 
heim bath. The difficulty is that the "pack" must be 
taken with cold water, in order to insure quick re- 
action, and people not accustomed to cold water 
often do not like them or do not stand them well. 

"Packs" open the pores and enable the skin to 
throw off into the wet sheets much waste. Uric 
acid and medicines like iodine or mercury, if taken, 
can be found on the sheets of the "pack" removed 
from patients. The "pack" is given two to six 
times a week, for from three-quarters of an hour to 
two hours. The patient may sleep while in the 
"pack." A longer period than one hour is not 
good for patients with heart trouble. When the 
kidneys and bad blood are responsible for the sick- 
ness, the weakening effect of a "pack" taken for 
longer than one hour need not cause worry, as the 
strength comes back quickly and greater than be- 
fore, after once the impurities are removed from 
the body. 

There is practically no better way to get rid of 
the "old Adam" and regenerate the body than a 
four to six weeks* cure with "packs" and a re- 
stricted diet. If, after such treatment, the patient 
begins to follow our regime he soon feels more ef- 
ficient in every way, and last, but not least, is in 
possession of a prolonged lease of life. 

Water-treatment or hydrotherapy is a science with 
its applications for each sickness, just as we use 

212 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

different kinds of drugs for different diseases. We 
can not deal here with douches, salt glows, baths 
with mud, etc. They must be prescribed by a 
physician who has studied this way of treating 
diseases; irreparable harm has been done by inex- 
perienced men. 



213 



XI 



MIND 

THE GROWING OF A SOUND MIND: 

1. Distinction between sanity, nervousness, and insanity. 

2. The importance of early character-training. 

3. Education in self-control; self -inhibition as a fault and 

self consciousness. 

4. Education in concentration. 

5. Training in " doing," as opposed to "intending." 

6. The individuality unchangeable in later life. 

7. The heavy burden of the American school-teacher. 

THE ONLY CURE FOR NERVOUSNESS: 

1. Offered by obedience to nature's six demands: 

First demand: time (patience). 
Second demand: obedience to the law of evolution (self- 

improvement). 
Third demand: a normal sexual life or its proper 

equivalent. 
Fourth demand: obedience to the gregarious (social) 

instinct. 

Fifth demand: food the body is built for. 
Sixth demand: due consideration for skin and muscles. 

2. Aids in following the above demands. 

3. How will-power is grown. 

THE THREE GREAT NERVOUS FEARS: 

1. Fear of other people's opinion. How to judge one's self. 

2. Fear of insanity, sickness, and death. 

3. Fear of poverty. 



215 



XI 

MIND 

THE GROWING OF A SOUND MIND 

Until now we have dealt, in regard to the mind, 
merely with the common sense, tho unfortunately 
often neglected, fact, that the finest character and 
spirit depend on the health of the body, and that 
unsuitable food, sickness, excess of liquor, lack of 
exercise, etc., may make a mean and stupid person 
out of a naturally good and bright one. 

We have further mentioned that every part of the 
body is regulated by its center in the brain and that 
this brain-center can, by its own action, produce or 
pave the way for sickness in every part of the body, 
while, vice versa, every sickness keeps a brain-center 
stimulated or, in sensitive people, the whole brain 
irritated. In the following chapters we discuss the 
mind independent of the body. 

Our thoughts and actions have the same effect on 
the nervous system as food on the stomach. A nor- 
mal nervous system makes certain demands on us 
which must be satisfied to insure a healthy mind for 
a healthy body. 

A mentally and morally sound person has rational 
ideas and ideals, the strength to live accordingly 

217 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 
Difference and the power to control with reason his actions and 

Between emotions. 
Nervousness 

and insanity Nervous people are unable to control with rea- 
son their emotions and actions, in spite of know- 
ing that they are in part, or altogether, wrong. 

An insane person does not realize that his ideas 
and actions are in part, or altogether, wrong and 
has, therefore, not the intention, and often not the 
power, to change them or to control his impulses. 

People who are born right become efficient and a 
joy to themselves and to others regardless of the 
environment in which they grow up. Others, who 
have inherited from a long line of ancestors possi- 
bilities for good and evil, are made efficient and 
happy or incompetent and miserable for life en- 
tirely depending on the training they receive during 
early childhood. 

The first years of life are the deciding ones. At 
Early that time when children learn to understand and to 
Character remember, their brain-centers are shaped and we 
know, from experience with abnormal babies, that 
centers which were practically lacking at first can be 
developed at this early period. At the same time, 
the centers of will-power and of self-control must 
be built up. Competent teachers, employers, judges, 
and physicians agree that people fail in life more 
often from lack of will-power and stability than 
from lack of knowledge or good intentions. 

Every one is a combination of good and bad. The 

218 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

worst criminals, except the morally degenerate, have 
moments when they honestly resolve to do right, but 
fail because they are unable to control the bad part 
of their personality. This power of control may be 
congenital, or may be developed in the first three 
years of life by first training a child to obey others; 
later the child substitutes for this other person his 
own better self, and has no trouble in controlling his 
baser impulses. 

To show at what an early age obedience can be 
taught, we mention the fact that under the super- 
vision of a competent person, a baby who vomits 
and screams until exhausted often changes to a 
sensible, obedient little creature, while it was an 
uncontrollable disturber of the whole household, be- 
ing in charge of a self-sacrificing mother who in- 
dulged its every whim. 

Teaching obedience is not identical with enslaving 
a child, or taking away his freedom; there are 
things which parents know better than a two- or 
three-year-old youngster that is, what to eat, how 
to wash, how much to rest, sleep, etc. In these re- 
spects it must be understood by the child that he is 
to do what he is told. 

Only what really is wrong should be forbidden, self-inhibition, 
A child should never be told to do certain things Seif-conscious- 
simply because of the likes or dislikes of a teacher of seif-reiince- 
or any other adult. Fear of other people's opinion F <> rm <i in 
can be made a habit; it destroys the independence 

219 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

of mind and action, makes people hypocrites on 
account of the wish to appear as expected by others, 
and is, in the opinion of the foremost alienists, the 
cause of nervousness, of incurable fear-thoughts, and 
a personality divided against itself. This habit of 
fearing to displease, developed in early youth, later 
on called over-conscientiousness or cowardice, unfits 
for the work in which independent action is needed, 
and breaks people down when placed in a position 
of leadership, condemning them to remain all their 
life in a position below the standard they could 
have reached, if they had been self-reliant. 

Children who are corrected too much are inclined 
to watch themselves too carefully and to become 
self-conscious. A bodily healthy person is not con- 
scious of his body, a nervously healthy one not con- 
scious of his personality. The self-conscious child 
becomes the over-conscientious man of the worrying 
disposition. 

Unreasonably often repeated " don't," "do not do 
that," "why do you do that?" etc., make the center 
of inhibition in the brain over-sensitive and dom- 
ineering; then perfectly natural sensations and unim- 
portant acts are inhibited until closely scrutinized in 
regard to their cause, general aspect, and effect. This 
causes self-control to degenerate into the habit of 
constant self-inhibition, on account of doubt in the 
correctness of one's impulses. Such people have the 
same difficulty in going through life smoothly as a 
teamster would if he had to drive a wagon for thirty 

220 



THEIR CAEE AND CURE 

or forty years, over all kinds of roads, with the 
brakes always tightly set. 

Lacking confidence in themselves, they naturally 
can not inspire others with confidence. Conscious of 
limitations which trouble nobody but themselves, 
they begin to hate their own personality, and, as 
every one has to spend much time in his own com- 
pany, they do not get much pleasure out of life, ex- 
cept when entertained by others and able to forget 
themselves. A self-satisfied, pleased countenance 
simply expresses satisfaction with one's own person- 
ality; altho such people may be great fools they are 
generally more welcome than a better man who looks 
troubled only because he does not come up to his 
own expectations. 

This same lack of self-reliance cultivated in youth 
may cause such a habit of fear that, on important 
occasions all through life, the worry absorbs a large 
part of the brain's working power, reducing the 
amount required for the work to be done. For in- 
stance, in an examination, fear may render it im- 
possible for a child to answer questions, previously 
answered without difficulty, or a person gifted with 
a fine voice from ever making a success on the 
stage, while praise, rightly given, would have helped 
the natural ability to assert itself. 

To achieve the best possible results the whole mind Education, 
has to be concentrated on one end. Analyzing the 
qualities which make for success, we find that broad 

221 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

learning and intelligence with little concentration is 
less effective than moderate learning and intelligence, 
when will-power and concentration weld them to- 
gether into one strong lever with which to push one's 
self and a business untiringly forward. 

A life-long habit of poor concentration is often 
developed in early childhood by continually distract- 
ing the child's attention by too great a variety of 
diversions, when it can just as well become used 
to being occupied for some length of time with one 
subject. Lack of concentration and continuity in 
thought and action are, in later life, characteristic 
of that type of neuropaths who plan much, do little,, 
and never get the full benefit of anything. When 
they should be enjoying themselves, they think of 
something sad; when they want to sleep, they re- 
member their work; when they should work, they 
look to see what other people are doing; when their 
work is just ready to bring returns, they give it up. 

Energy means to put thought into action, which 
is practically impossible without will-power and con- 
centration. Tho all possible freedom is given to a 
child, it should be trained to make an earnest effort to 
carry out any sensible plan it has made, regardless 
of what it is whether to stay in bed until ten, or 
get up at eight; to play or to stay at home; to 
play ball or to do a little sewing. The main thing 
is to follow up his plan with action. For this pur- 
pose manual training is especially recommended, as 
a child sees a thought take form under his own eyes, 

222 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

and also learns the necessity of patience and acquires 
the ability to control his little hands, which is a 
step toward controlling the whole physical part of 
his personality and the all-important coordination 
of his faculties. 

Self-control, energy, consistency, and patience, in- 
culcated in youth, become automatic parts of the 
personality, and add much more to efficiency and 
happiness than the inheritance of much money or 
the ability to converse in ten different languages. 

After the sixth year the personality can not be 
changed; "individuum est ineffabile ; ' ' altho the out- 
side manifestations may be modified by knowledge est ineffabile 
and reason. For instance, a boy, who was born a 
coward and not trained to be different in his early 
youth, may become a distinguished soldier or prize- 
fighter by the following method of reasoning: he tells 
himself, first, that he is bodily and mentally just as 
strong or stronger than others; second, that he may 
in that particular profession succeed on account of 
circumstances and reach what his ambition strives 
for; third, that it would be self-destruction to show 
cowardice after he had attained a certain position. 
Sooner or later and always in little traits, when he 
thinks himself unobserved, the true character can, 
however, be recognized as different from that of the 
naturally fearless man. 

The modern child does not consider itself under 
any obligations for being born. Being without a 
compelling religion and possessing a dissecting mind, 

223 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

it is, instead, grateful for knowledge, the ability to 
do things, a healthy body, a cheerful home, and an 
understanding soul to whom it can turn when lost. 
The child is sadly disappointed when it finds parents 
lacking in fairness and truth. It soon realizes that 
parents' love is often an animal instinct, sometimes 
a conventionality, and quite commonly only worry 
and fear for a good name. 

If parents only knew how much their own and 
their child's success and happiness depends on the 
first years of life, they would make the light, but 
time- and trouble-saving effort of bringing the child 
up properly. Later they find greater difficulties, as 
experienced when trying to teach an old dog new 
tricks. 

In this country where the standard of a man's 

Heavy Burden work is often measured by his money-making ability; 

of American w h ere ^ e newspapers publish daily news about men 

School-teacher 

who have high standing in the community, in spite 
of dishonesty, and where thousands of children of 
immigrants have more knowledge than their parents, 
the public school must instil into the mind of the 
child right aims and ideals. 

In Europe there exist in most civilized states four 
great educational factors: first, the school; second, 
religion, whose lessons every child has to learn; 
third, military service, giving to men two years of 
training in self-control and hygiene and, fourth, the 
home. In this country we do not have obligatory 

224 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

military service and attendance at religious lessons. 
The child of the immigrant makes progress in the 
first American generation many times as far as it 
would have gone in three generations in the old 
country, and can not possibly find guidance through 
the perplexities of American life from its ignorant 
parents; while in Europe they can, as, with its 
slower progress, the situation differs little from one 
generation to another. 

What is performed in Europe by four educational 
factors, must be done in this country by one, the 
public school. That there is much room left in our 
public schools for improvement, results from the fact 
that many high-minded men and women, who are 
anxious to teach, can not, in fairness to their own and 
their family 's future, afford to work for the miserable 
salaries now paid. The government, in justice to the 
coming generations, should pay to teachers at least 
half the amount the European nations have to 
spend on church and military service, giving them 
an income equal to that of a good physician or at- 
torney. Many so-called great physicians spend most 
of their time in keeping people alive who might be 
happier dead and in curing others who, with proper 
information and training, never would have been 
ill. Many a prominent lawyer squanders his whole 
life in keeping people out of jail who really belong 
there, and in adjusting difficulties which never would 
have arisen between people properly reared. 

The individual and the state make a good invest- 

225 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

ment in paying high salaries to competent teachers. 
Conservative criminologists believe that even of crim- 
inals forty-five per cent, could have been made nor- 
mal by proper early training. Sickness and misery 
disappear in proportion to the increased efficiency of 
teachers and parents. Health and the social ques- 
tion are educational questions. 

THE ONLY CUBE FOE NERVOUSNESS 

Those who, by fault of inheritance or education, 
have missed being sound bodily and mentally, must 
not expect to become so through anybody else's 
efforts; they must work out their own salvation by 
understandingly following the demands nature makes 
for its work of reconstruction. 

The first demand of nature is for time, which 
First Demandmeans patience, a virtue lacking only in those who 
(Patience) ^ not un derstand the meaning of "time." Every- 
thing that exists has needed time to grow. It takes 
time to make conditions ready even for the most 
sudden catastrophe. Our works are the fruit we 
bear and their growth needs time. In literature, 
mechanics, art, all really admirable achievements 
required years of incessant effort by great men. 

Nature requires time to rebuild tissue, just as it 
needs time to make a child grow. Any one who has 
been ailing for any length of time can not expect to 
be well inside of a few days. We must make an 

226 



THEIE CARE AND CURE 

exception here of diseases in which, by an operation 
for instance, the removal of an appendix, a tumor, 
etc. the cause of the trouble can be removed; or 
where we have remedies which, like some anti-toxins, 
or possibly arsenic and quinine, kill certain disease- 
producing bacteria in one deciding battle. For the 
care of all others we must allow time. Even in so- 
called functional disorders where, seemingly, the 
tissue is not changed, physicians have found that 
symptoms which disappear suddenly are likely to re- 
turn, altho frequently in some disguise. 

In order to effect a cure, patience is as essential 
as the right remedy. A physician who expects to 
cure a case of long standing in an unnaturally short 
time, often satisfies the patient for the first month 
or two, but a relapse is sure to come, when the new- 
ness of the doctor's personality has worn off. "A3 
new doctor is always right/' as the old saying goes, 
but only for the time being. Many physicians, who 
are scientifically well-fitted to cure chronic invalids, 
are unsuccessful because they change correct pre- 
scriptions before nature has time to remove the 
disease or regenerate the patient. The patient must 
not be allowed to suffer; indeed, he ought to be re- 
lieved at once, if possible, but he should be told that 
it necessarily takes months of hard up-hill work, 
with many relapses, for permanent health to be re- 
stored. By employing patience many operations 
could have been avoided; instead of that the disap- 
pointed face of an impatient doctor drives the fright- 

227 



THE HEAET AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

ened patient to the surgeon or into the hands of 
quacks. 

At present the welfare of the future generation is 
rightly considered. Most reforms advocated to-day 
have been tried many times before without achieving 
the desired result, for the simple reason that a de- 
cided change for the better was looked for within 
five to ten years, altho the laws of environment 
and inheritance physiologically demand a much longer 
time to make a new generation. We can not draw 
reliable conclusions from what happens a short 
while after a reform is instituted, on account of 
many purely incidental and accidental things that 
may happen. 

The second demand of nature is that we follow 
Second the law of evolution. Every one of us is an in- 

Se?Mmprove- se P ara ^>l e P art f tne universe. The great law of 
ment the universe is evolution and every one of us pos- 
sesses, in his sub-conscious self, the instinct of evo- 
lution, which must be satisfied by self-improvement 
before peace of mind or a sound body can be at- 
tained. 

To improve one's self means to add something to 
one's bodily, mental, or moral betterment, regardless 
of what it is, even if it only creates an impression 
in ourselves that it helps either us, the family, or 
society in general. 

Those wretchedly unhappy ones who, by standing 
still, clog the wheels of their own and the world's 

228 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

progress, feel better when, by advancing even a 
little, they appease their rebellious instinct of evolu- 
tion. Without conscious, or, what is more commonly 
the case, unconscious, realization of one's progress, 
no health is possible until the fiftieth year, or inside 
that period of life when man was intended to grow 
and produce. 

The whole day of a healthy child is filled with 
search for knowledge and efforts to improve its 
ability to do things. We adults know the value of 
writing, reading, geography, etc. The primitive in- 
stinct of a child often does not readily take to the 
civilizatory values of these studies, but strives for more 
natural self-improvement by greater bodily pro- 
ficiency and a greater fund of general practical in- 
formation. This primitive instinct of evolution has 
to be satisfied first before some of our most normal 
children become good pupils in our conventional 
schools. 

The ambition to become as efficient as possible is 
part of this instinct, while the ambition to get 
ahead of every one else is the same instinct per- 
verted. The one is constructive and leads to happi- 
ness, the other destructive and leads to unhappiness. 
It is proper to measure one's prowess with that of 
another, in order to get a standard of one's pro- 
ficiency, while the endeavor to destroy a competitor 
is only justified when he represents a vicious prin- 
ciple. 

Work done in making a living should not in the 

229 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

NO Kind of least interfere with efforts to make ourselves daily a 
Work Prevents little better and happier. 

ment V The dignity of work depends on the effect it has 
on ourselves and our fellow citizens. It must not be 
measured by the return it brings in money or by 
comparison with others who can do it better. 

The ability to amass wealth is due, not to a highly 
developed intellect, or character, but to a peculiarly 
constituted personality which, by itself, has no more 
right to command admiration than a hare-lip or 
ability to wiggle one's ears. By testing the intelli- 
gence of rich men we find that many, tho not all, 
fall below the normal, a fact that has long been sus- 
pected on account of some of the peculiar qualities 
of their offspring. In applying the moral test, we 
find their deviation from the normal is almost as great, 
in some instances, as that of the born criminal, 
altho it is covered in the rich by an outward dig- 
nity which was acquired, in its misleading likeness to 
the real thing, by financial independence, educational 
advantages, and refined environments. 

The public gradually is beginning to understand 
that a clerk who gives pleasure to his family and 
his customers is a greater power for good than his 
wealthy employer who may owe one-quarter of his 
standing to his ability to get for the least wages the 
greatest amount of work; a second quarter to his 
success in destroying honest competition; a third, 
to his cleverness in luring people to spend their 
money foolishly; and the last quarter to knowledge 

230 



THEIK CARE AND CUBE 

of how to make or do something better than others. 
But the idea for even the last quarter may have 
originated in some subordinate brain. Executive 
ability, which is rated high to-day as a kind of con- 
genital gift, will be the common attribute of all per- 
sons reared according to the principles here set forth. 

Another reason why people sometimes despair of 
ever amounting to anything is that their work is 
not only lowly, but could be done by others just 
as well or better. This is a wrong point of view. 
Everybody in this world is only self-important, with 
the possible exception of one life in a hundred mil- 
lion which may have become important to the 
world in general; altho most of us strut around with 
the delusion of our importance. 

The greatest achievements in religion, literature, 
art, mechanics, and politics were wrought out grad- 
ually. They were always preceded by a period in 
which work of a similar kind, altho not as strik- 
ingly wonderful, was produced. They were never 
brought forth like lightning out of a blue sky. 
There is almost no exception to this rule. If the 
person who did a great thing had not done it, some 
other person would have done it possibly in an- 
other way, but, finally, he would have achieved the 
same results. We, and the conditions surrounding 
us, grow in accordance with the imperative law of 
evolution. By doing our work as well as we can, 
we must be satisfied and not be unhappy because 

231 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

others were born different or into a better soil for 
growth. 

People who have retired from active life after 

For Those Who their fiftieth year, are frequently not as happy as 



Have Retired ^hey merit to be. They often consider themselves 

From Active 

Work useless because they no longer take part in the 
world's work. In reality, they are no more useless 
than a beautiful tree which does not bear fruit, or 
a flower which is a delight to the eye. Many old 
ladies and men are needed for the happiness of their 
families and friends. To satisfy fully this need has 
greater merit than to stand in competition with 
others in business or to manage a household. 

Many men, after retiring from business, become 
deprest. They are unable to occupy their time, be- 
cause their brains have acquired the habit of being 
busy only with thoughts connected with work. To 
guard against this, some hobby, not connected with 
regular business, should be cultivated in early life, 
with which to pass the time pleasantly in later years. 
God asks us to praise Him in our prayers, altho 
He is absolutely certain of His righteousness. No 
wonder poor mortal man sometimes needs praise to 
steady him when he hesitates in doubt as to whether 
he is on the right road. Judicious praise should be 
given as a well-deserved tonic to the instinct of self- 
perfection, especially to people with little self- 
reliance. Flattery or injudicious praise misleads, 
as it gives a wrong estimate of one's abilities and 
often an unwholsome conceit. In the previous chap- 

232 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

ter I mentioned why punctilious, fault-finding criti- 
cism is likely to stunt the normal growth of a sensi- 
tive person's good qualities. 

Everything man does exists first in his thoughts. 
Good and bad thoughts precede good and bad ac- 
tions. It is an error of so-called liberal-minded 
people to believe that bad literature, bad plays, and 
bad pictures do not demoralize us. Every impres- 
sion leaves a trace in the brain. An ugly thing seen 
or heard becomes a part of the personality and 
often a possession or obsession that may disturb life 
for years and grow into a bad action. In some cities 
of the old world guides show to unsuspecting vis- 
itors the life of immoral people at night. It is 
known to these guides and to the dive-keepers that 
many sight-seers, after viewing the ugly sights go 
quietly home, only to come back alone, sooner or 
later, and try the same experiences for themselves. 
Crimes of delinquent children can often be traced 
to bad literature or to stories about crimes read in 
the newspapers. 

Bad habits are contagious in the formative period 
of life; for many people all through life. Com- 
panionship with people of high ideals elevates the 
character and stimulates one to good actions, while 
association with undesirable people may, in time, hurt 
even a good character. Good reading is always im- 
proving. Fortunately, we can turn to books when 
we are tired of people who are less worthy of ac- 
quaintance. 

233 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

Nature's third demand is for a normal sex-life, in 

Third Demand regard to which I refer to the special chapter on the 

Made by the su bject. Altho sex-instinct is charged to man's 

Sex-instinct _ . 

animal side, it has many spiritual manifestations. 
Women are lonely and sad until they have some one 
to care for; men until they have somebody to protect 
and live for. There are many women who become 
half invalids for thirty years or more, because they 
never find any one who wants their affection. They 
stand it poorly if they never feel the sympathetic 
touch of a loving hand and cry themselves to sleep, 
after hiding their starved souls during the day under 
a mask of pride or indifference. 

Normal people have the greatest difficulty in re- 
maining normal without having a normal life. 
Everybody has his own sexual individuality which 
may exact little, or, if not satisfied, it may, during 
the prime of life, disturb the peace of mind and 
equilibrium. On one side is self-control, on the 
other, a self-to-be-controlled and, if to the latter is 
given its due, the former will be likely to keep 
verything balanced. 

A sacred duty toward every child is an education 
for marriage. A great loneliness has deadened the 
best in the personality of millions who have sacri- 
ficed themselves dutifully to a mistake they made 
when, in ignorance, they bound themselves to an un- 
fitting wife or husband; they remain together but 
live each as the other's prisoner and victim. 

234 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

Nature's fourth demand, which can easily be satis- 
fied, has to be traced back to the origin of man as Fourth 
a gregarious animal. Man owes his existence to co- 
operation with his fellow beings in the battle for 
life, first, against animals, later against members of 
his own race; and he who does not instinctively 
participate in one way or another in the common 
weal either feels uncomfortable or degenerates from 
the normal. 

The need of friendly companionship is part of the 
same instinct. Time is well spent in an effort to 
secure congenial friends and associates. Without 
them, the soul naturally becomes lonely and dis- 
satisfied. As wealth and power are the principal 
goals for human ambition, many consider the time 
not spent in their pursuit to be lost. They do not 
realize that they can never be permanently con- 
tented if they neglect to give, systematically, a part 
of their energy to the acquisition of what their mind 
instinctively demands in other directions, self-im- 
provement, companionship, friends, etc. But these 
we have no right to expect without effort on our 
part. The biographies of most great men show the 
part their friends played in their lives and the ef- 
forts they made to keep them. 

The gregarious instinct of nervous people is espe- 
cially strong, tho, unfortunately, often perverted, as 
a neuropath, with his characteristic lack of sense of 
proportion, expects friends to be affected by his 
troubles and joys exactly as he himself is, which is 

235 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

absurd, as this would eventually incapacitate several 
persons in place of one. Finding sympathy not suf- 
ficient for the fulfilment of his unjustified expectation, 
the neuropath goes to the other extreme and remains 
alone; he stands aside and practically remains lonely 
until he has corrected his misconceptions. In this 
class we find the people who, in youth, were de- 
prived of self-appreciation and self-reliance through 
fault-finding teachers, who first took away their 
confidence in themselves and then in others, a men- 
tal state making it difficult for them to satisfy their 
naturally strong desire for harmonious work with 
others in life and society. 

Nervous people often believe they can, with im- 
The Physical punity, eat anything that the stomach can digest. 
f When we eat something that disagrees with the 
stomach, the effect is felt in a few hours; if the food 
disagrees with the liver we feel it in a day or two; 
while certain foodstuffs, which affect the nerves and 
the system in general, produce bad effects after 
months and sometimes years (as in the case of gout). 
An occasional indiscretion seldom has a bad effect. 
The layman is often tempted to overlook the cause 
when a long interval intervenes before the effect is 
felt, or when the cause is made up of a number of 
little mistakes which, tho not serious menaces to 
health when committed singly, in the aggregate are 
bad. I do not recommend a vegetarian diet as a 
general principle, but many nervous people keep 

236 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

their balance better when they eat little meat. Na- 
ture often does not succeed in regenerating a patient 
until he gives due consideration to the skin and 
muscles, regarding which subject see Chapters VIII 
and IX. 



People who are normal by birth instinctively follow 
nature's demands; it is perfectly natural for them 
to be patient, to make progress, to marry early a 
congenial, normal person, to take exercise, to have 
friends, and to eat simple food. On the other hand, 
we invariably find, in the chronically sick, that they 
have neglected certain of nature's needs, either on 
account of ignorance, lack of will-power, or force of 
circumstances. Further, we find that they gain 
health only by giving in to nature's demands, or 
by waiting until the autumn of life, when their 
earthly existence, and with it the demands of nature, 
ebb gradually away. 

Any one who is not well and able, by himself, to 
follow nature 's demands, must not be ashamed to when One Can 
ask another person for help. This is not asking too 
much of anybody who professes to have our interests 
at heart, whether father, wife, husband, sweetheart, 
or friend. Willingness to help is the test of a per- 
son's worth. Exercises and air-baths do not take 
more than a tew minutes daily; the diet we recom- 
mend does not involve any deprivation, and a really 

237 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

wholesome manner of living is no sacrifice, but in- 
creases the joys of life for a sensible person. 

Those who can not help themselves and have no- 
body to help them, should go to a good health resort, 
where temptations are kept away from them and 
every one is made to follow rules similar to those 
here advocated. After from four to six weeks the 
habit of a more nearly normal life will be acquired 
and thereafter easily continued, altho it may be a 
good plan to go later to another environment, and 
associate with people who are struggling for the 
same end on the same road. 

Will-power is a natural attribute of a sound mind 
HOW win- and needs no special training when good rules of 
power is health are followed. It must be emphasized that it is 
developed, not by suppressing, but by doing things. 
We must educate ourselves in the habit of doing and 
finishing things no matter what they are do them, 
do them ; finish them, finish them. Make it clear what 
you wish to do, and the reason why; decide about 
the best way to do it and then go ahead, whether 
right or wrong. For a nervous person a wrong de- 
cision is generally better than no decision. Some- 
thing may be rightly said against almost everything. 
Hesitancy and delay create the exhausting habit of 
indecision, which uses up mental and bodily energy 
that is lost for the work itself. 

Will-power is steadied further by always keeping 
the aim in view and accepting obstacles on the way 

23? 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

as necessary incidents. I have given anatomical 
reasons why the body can do its best possible work 
only with full concentration of mind on one aim. 
Everything disagreeable that has to be done to reach 
the main object for which we are striving should be 
considered merely as a side issue, with the main 
purpose never out of sight. This leads to enthusiasm 
which carries the optimist to his goal, as it makes 
him insensible to the hurts and dangers which break 
a fearful soldier down on the way to victory. 

The efficiency of many intelligent people is par- 
alyzed by too much thinking. All nervous people 
think too much. Only by doing and finishing can 
they learn to act, and so become well. 

The neuropath who is unable to relieve his mind 
of worry and anger can often do so by writing down 
in a few words the reason and possible effects of his 
trouble. By subtracting his hurt pride, he will al- 
ways find that cause and result do not amount to 
as much as he first thought or not more than what 
he has needlessly worried about many times before 
and, by considering the probabilities, he will see that 
he has no reason to be despondent. Life is not al- 
ways a winning game and every one should learn 
how to stand defeat. Those who do not learn, dis- 
able themselves by allowing worry about the past 
and future to spoil sleep and digestion and working 
ability ; while, for the man who learns how to accept 

239 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

defeat, a failure in the past is an experience which 
becomes an asset in favor of success in the future. 

Every one must create for himself the philosophy 
he needs, but in this effort even great men do not 
always succeed. There can not be the least doubt 
but that firm faith in one's religion gives the feeling 
of security for one of insecurity, the right way out 
of exaggerated perplexities, a stronger heart and a 
healthier body, a fact denied only by prejudice or 
ignorance. 

THE THREE GREAT NERVOUS FEARS 

People of thoroughly sound minds do not need 
to read the remainder of this chapter. It is written 
for slaves of prejudice and obsessions, and deals 
with the three predominant nervous fears : first, fear of 
other people's opinions; second, fear of insanity, 
sickness, and death; and third, fear of poverty. 

Exaggerated consideration for other people's 
First: Fear of opinions makes nervous people into living lies. Self- 
(> r hdon le ' Sex P ress ^ on * s ^ e s t ron desire of any honest person 
and, if supprest, suffocates the natural growth of 
good qualities and possibilities. 

Great men often appear selfish because they must 
force themselves, without consideration of the few, 
into the place where they can do good to the many. 
Every one must find out for himself what he is and 
what he can do, and steer directly to the place where 

240 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

he belongs. By always paying attention to others he 
may succeed in crippling, but never in improving, 
himself. God intended to have a division of labor 
and, necessarily, a difference of views and character 
among men. It is unphysiological to allow public 
opinion to shape every one after the same pattern. 

Independence of mind must be sacrificed when the 
leadership of one is necessary to save the country, 
a principle, or life. To those who love us, we 
should explain why we acted in a certain way, 
and, if they are unable to understand, they should 
be asked to have confidence in us, as every one 
must live according to his own individuality. Indi- 
viduality is to the soul what life is to the body. To 
destroy the individuality is, for some people, worse 
in its consequences than to kill the body with one 
stroke. For this reason the world can not be allowed 
to be the judge of any one's thoughts and actions, tho 
this is no reason why every one should not be treated 
with kindness. 

Evil people hate good ones; the jealous belittle 
the successful; one man's pleasure is another's dis- 
pleasure ; the rich materialist looks down on the poor 
idealist, and the hypocrite suspects even the best peo- 
ple of selfish motives. God alone is perfect. 
Everything man achieves and receives must be 
imperfect. Intelligent people are more likely to 
feel nervous about their limitations than the 
stupid ones who consider themselves right, since 
they do not realize their failings. Those who are too 

241 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

short-sighted to see their own shortcomings can not 
be expected to size up others correctly. A variety of 
bright faces and decent clothes covers the most 
massive stupidity; many inmates of insane asylums 
look like prophets of old with a spark of genius in 
their eyes. Even intelligent people have a thorough 
knowledge of only a few things; they can not be 
relied upon as judges of everything. 

How can one possibly place stress on one person's 
view of another when the best have a diversity of 
opinion on subjects less difficult to understand but 
more vital to the world? Millions in 1912 who con- 
scientiously voted for Koosevelt did not understand 
how other millions could, in honesty, vote the regular 
Republican ticket. Millions of Protestants wonder 
how Catholics can rely on saints, and Catholics, how 
Protestants can expect to go to heaven without the 
intercession of a saint. Both feel sorry for three 
hundred millions of Buddhists and Mohammedans, 
who see in Christianity a religion of cruel selfishness. 
All, in common, despise the Jew, who is confident that 
his despised people is the elect of God. Our mer- 
chant-prince looks like a robber-king to the working- 
man who can not understand why he should suffocate 
in workshops and his children starve while the 
other lives in sunshine and luxury. We make an 
outcast of a girl who sells her body on the install- 
ment plan and hold blameless another who sells 
herself for one big sum to an unbeloved husband, 
with the sanction of the church. 

242 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

A man's opinion may be interesting and character- 
istic for himself, but has no weight in deciding 
right and wrong in general; in fact, a person be- 
comes a sad joke when he tries to make his view 
the standard for others. Compare the biggest sky- 
scrapers with the Rocky Mountains, the speed of a 
fast train with that of the stars, the best aeroplane 
with a little bird, the insecurity of man 's life with the 
indestructibility of matter, the incessant effort of 
science to make a living cell with the world where 
everything is alive, or most people's imagined impor- 
tance with their true size, and the greatness of man 
shrinks down to the self-important play of ignorant 
children. When one acquires this right sense of pro- 
portion he will never remain a slave to public opinion. 

Progress marches in the form of a wedge. On the 
sharp point stand only the very few who see ahead. 
The greater mass gradually follow and possibly in 
one, ten, or a hundred years reach the spot where 
those on the point are to-day. This makes it clear 
why the popular man is not necessarily the great 
one, while the great man who is at the point of the 
wedge can not expect to be popular. It is the same 
with books. Every great man, from Christ down 
to Lincoln, had to go through this experience and 
wait until his ideas conquered. Not one of them 
could have done anything for the world if he had 
allowed public opinion to form his own. 

It would show a low estimate of the reader to 
add anything here about worrying and grieving over 

243 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

gossip about clothes, children, and society. There 
exists no perfect person in this world. The fact 
that we do not see any bad qualities in others is no 
indication that they do not exist. Sensitive people 
unjustly reproach themselves with faults, lack of 
gratitude, etc., which often are nothing more than 
the normal peculiarity of mortal man. If they knew 
other people better, they might become conceited by 
realizing their own goodness. The world has a right 
to expect every one to have one good quality and 
to be, in the main, free from such as do harm. 
Some are more accomplished in cooking, entertaining, 
and making a home happy; others in working in 
public and politics; some exist to be a pleasure to 
the eye, others to carry the burden. No one person 
can expect to be a fine musician as well as a great 
business man, an art expert as well as a winner of 
battles. 

In private life those who desire to be comfortable 
must fit themselves into the circle where they belong. 
With little effort, every one can find a place where 
he is wanted. The endeavor to enter a certain set 
of society, fortified by family traditions, wealth, re- 
ligion, prejudice, education, mutual admiration, or 
ignorance, is wrong. It disturbs the community of 
interests. Anybody wishing to enter a better class 
than his own can use his ambition more nobly by 
elevating the one into which he naturally fits. Every 
pioneer has to be an outsider. 

Nervous people who are constitutionally displeased 

244 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

with their own persons should, when judging them- 
selves, imagine themselves in the place of God, de- 
ciding about entrance to heaven, where great leaders 
in society and business may be rated lower than a 
faithful servant; where most achievements people 
work themselves sick for will count for nothing, and 
where a simple, honest effort to do right will count 
for much with the wisest and kindest Judge. 

The second great fear of the neuropath is of 
sickness, insanity, and death. 

People who, from childhood, follow the suggestions 
given in this book will finally fall asleep happily, second: Fear 
never to awake again, after a beautiful old age. of j^ny SS ' 
They are not protected against accidents, but against Death ' 
the unnatural horror of becoming, at the end of 
their life, a burden to others, because of a painful 
and lingering disease. 

Habitual fear of accidents is just as sensible as 
would be hesitancy to bite into a piece of bread on 
account of a possible hidden piece of gravel. The 
gravel, of course, is a possibility, but not a prob- 
ability. There is the same degree of danger that 
oneself, or a dear one, may be hurt. If such 
slight probabilities were worth worrying about, no 
enterprise would ever be undertaken. There is some 
uncertainty connected with everything that man 
does. 

An acute disease ends either in recovery, inval- 
idity, or death. The chronic invalid can enjoy this 

245 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

world, provided that at the time when he is free of 
pain he stops worrying and fretting about the past 
and future. Worrying, with its consequent insomnia, 
poor digestion, and nervous exhaustion, undermines 
the constitution and endangers the chance of getting 
well. Mental diseases excepted, all others do not in- 
capacitate one for pleasure and work a tenth as much 
as does the accompanying worry and grief. Many 
great works in art and literature were produced by 
sick men ; many lives have been made pure and noble 
by sufferings which made others disagreeable burdens 
to themselves and the world. 

The history of thoroughly religious people, of mar- 
tyrs and men of great purpose, teaches us that a 
brain occupied with one thought does not admit the 
realization of any other sensation, such as pain. For 
weaker mortals nature has provided opiates which re- 
move pain and give to the mind real peace and happi- 
ness. There is no earthly reason why excruciating 
pain should not be relieved ; if no other way is possi- 
ble, then by morphine, which, in itself, would not 
produce fatal results in less than from ten to fifteen 
years. No one who can be relieved in any other way 
should take it. The morphinist can not be safely 
entrusted with serious responsibilities. He does not 
feel what is going on in his body, neither does he 
get the right impression of what is happening in the 
world, and generally he does not care. He loses the 
charm of his distinctive personality and is no longer 
Mr. Smith or Mr. Brown, but simply a morphinist. 

246 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

However, when all other hope is gone, we may rely 
upon this drug to relieve all pain and suffering. 

The person who fears to become insane seldom does 
so. An insane person is one who has wrong ideas and 
ideals and believes that they are right. A nervous per- 
son may have emotions and thoughts that are wrong, 
but he knows they are wrong. This is the cause of his 
worry, tho it should console him, as the fact that he 
realizes the wrong is proof that he is sane. While in- 
sanity is a terribly sad condition, insane people do not 
feel as unhappy as they seem. The mind is either slug- 
gish and not normally receptive, or so excited that one 
thought rapidly succeeds another. Often the insane 
are really happy, especially in cases of paresis. Rest- 
lessness, tears, moans, and many other peculiar actions 
of the insane, do not indicate sharply-felt emotions, 
as they do in a sound-minded person. 

Death is the fate of every one and should be ac- 
cepted in a dignified manner. Death itself is painless. 
Those who were once practically dead, but were re- 
suscitated after hours of artificial respiration, al- 
ways report what an easy and simple matter it is to 
die. The facial expression of most dead persons 
shows a freedom from past pain and worry. There 
exists a book of over one thousand pages about death, 
collected mainly from biographies. All the facts 
corroborate the opinion that the brain of every one 

247 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

before death enters into a drowsy state of sweet 
dreams, when the great parting is not realized. 

It is natural that after living many years on this 
earth we are as loath to leave it as to go from an 
old homestead, even tho we know that we go to spend 
a most enjoyable time somewhere else, but with the 
certainty that we shall never return. However, most 
of our best men welcomed death as the great liberator 
who frees the soul from the baseness of our animal- 
like body, putting it beyond the ills and narrowness 
of this world. 

The deceased one is on the safe side ; death is either 
a long, quiet sleep or the passing to a better world 
there to be reunited with many dear friends and 
relatives. God can not punish wickedness and crime 
worse than the guilty generally punish themselves 
here; and He forgives as He best knows the limita- 
tions put on our best intentions by having us domi- 
nated by orders inherited from ancestors, which make 
our actions no more dependent on our will than the 
shape of our nose or ears. 

The loss of a beloved one is immensely painful. 
With them, life was beautiful and great ; without them, 
summer and winter, success and failure, everything 
has lost its meaning. The nervous system can not 
remain in such a state of painful high-tension for 
any length of time. The brain-centers, where grief is 
seated, tire out and are unable to sustain the same 
sensation long. Time does not give the past happiness 
back, but after fifteen months, at the longest, grief has 

248 



THEIR CAEE AND CURE 

lost its power to interfere with the normal action of 
a brain, provided acute grief is not wilfully stimu- 
lated by intentional thinking of the past. The most 
painful sorrow may be relieved sooner by putting 
the brain to concentrated work, into strenuous action, 
when singleness of purpose causes everything else 
in the world temporarily to disappear. It is unfair 
to the dead to make them the cause of long unhappi- 
ness; unjust to sacrifice to a memory the comfort 
of the living; against the laws of nature to stop 
one's own growth by anchoring to the dead; and a 
sign of a lack of resources to fail to cover a vacancy, 
altho it may remain forever impossible to fill it. 

The third fear is poverty. Poverty does not neces- 
sarily cause unhappiness, nor wealth happiness, but Third : Fear of 
the worry about either makes life miserable. 

Every one following our suggestions can save 
enough during the time when he enjoys work to keep 
him carefree until the end of life. It costs very 
little to provide the body with what it really needs 
to keep in the best of health. Outdoor life, literature, 
and museums furnish for almost nothing most satis- 
factory recreation. 

Luxuries, on account of which the poor envy the 
rich, seem great pleasures to those who do not have 
them, while those who possess them must often use 
considerable imagination and pride to find them unal- 
loyed blessings. True, we are the children of our age and 
can not free ourselves from the fascination of general- 

249 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

ly cherished possessions, but, in reality, the loveliness 
of a much desired, costly gown is in nine out of ten 
cases only imaginary ; when the eye has become accus- 
tomed to new styles, its beauty is gone. Large, ex- 
pensive residences add little to the average house- 
wife's comfort. Dramatic and musical productions, 
in four out of five performances, are of such a kind 
that we would leave the house if we had them at 
home. Without costly trips intelligent people know, 
understand, and enjoy the entire world better than 
most globe-trotters, who often are not acquainted 
with the beauties and opportunities of their imme- 
diate neighborhood at home. Time spent with na- 
ture, a congenial friend, or the works of a good 
author, sculptor, or writer, or out of doors engaged 
in sports, gives a feeling of satisfaction, as it adds 
something to our bodily and mental welfare. We 
do not have the feeling of ill-spent time, as is 
often the case when our average fellow citizen tries 
to entertain us by displaying costly gowns, setting ex- 
pensive meals, and asking us to listen to conversation. 

As the poor man is not deprived of much real 
pleasure and, on the other hand, is protected against 
want in our modern state of civilization, poverty be- 
comes depressing only when we consider it a disgrace, 
which we have no right to do. 

The sober-looking old man and woman with shiny, 
clean clothes and tightly-combed hair and the poor 
child, are results of our present state of evolution, 
just as a lingering disease is the necessary finish 

250 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

)f many people's lives. Poverty results from eco- 
nomic conditions, and an ugly death from a manner 
of living, both of which we believe to be right, altho 
they are wrong. It does not need much figuring to 
show that, from an income of a thousand dollars a 
year, few can save enough to keep themselves financial- 
ly protected when they become disabled or, as is 
oftener the case, when they are not able to obtain em- 
ployment on account of age. 

The moment people understand that poverty is no 
disgrace, worry about it will cease. The comparison 
is interesting between the cheerful expression we so 
often see on faces of poor old people in a nice country 
retreat and the strained, restless countenances of the 
old rich in some modern, luxurious hostelry. 

Those who have money, and always worry about the 
possibility of losing it are not liable to lose it. Gen- 
erally they are over-careful ; the fear is only a nerv- 
ous one. When misfortune really occurs, they are 
almost always able to cope with it, provided initiative 
has not become paralyzed by imagined disgrace and 
the satisfaction felt by their enemies. Education in 
habits of simplicity and love of nature provide an 
armor through which destiny can not penetrate. 

Those who are unable to make a living all through 
life may be divided into two classes. The first com- 
prises degenerates, tramps, drunkards, and imbeciles, 
who should be treated as mentally defective patients. 
The second is the genius who, working under inspira- 
tion, becomes the instrument of expression for a divine 

251 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

thought and, therefore, is not always able to produce 
salable goods. It would be best to give to these a 
monthly governmental salary; when troubled or 
starved, they often cease to express their true inspira- 
tion and prostitute their genius, in order to give to 
the public what it will buy. 

The fairest thing in the United States is the chance 
given to each child of acquiring the finest education 
without cost. In other countries the child of the 
poor, beginning with its ninth year, is led through 
educational channels which confine it to a lowly 
social and economic position. In this country edu- 
cation does not depend so much on financial cir- 
cumstances as on the child's qualities of intellect and 
character. Practically every child has the same 
chance. The poor boy's prayer: "lead us not into 
temptation" is, however, more easily answered than 
that of the rich heir. 

There is only one kind of poverty to be feared. 
This is the poverty of a large part of the population. 
Wherever we meet many people together who are 
paid low wages, we find an abnormal number of 
sick ones, breeding places for typhoid, cholera, and 
other epidemics, parents of degenerates, criminals, 
and prostitutes all of which constitute a danger 
for the rich and poor alike. This kind of poverty 
can be hidden by charity and removed by educa- 
tion, a fairer division of the returns of labor, and 
restriction of the right to dismiss employees be- 
cause younger and cheaper help can be secured. 

252 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

We must add one-third to the average living-wage 
to make it a true living-wage for the whole life and 
not a wage for each day of work only. Up to his 
fifty-fifth year the average diligent man produces, 
with well-directed work, what ought to support him 
until his seventieth year, but, in our ignorance, we 
misappropriate the big surplus that exists over and 
above the amount of wages paid for each working day, 
and give it to promoters, bankers, and non-work- 
ing officers and stockholders. The money which the 
worker without question has made, and on which he 
should live after age has incapacitated him for work, 
flows into the wrong pockets and, necessarily, leaves 
him penniless in old age. 

Old age pensions are well meant, but it would be 
better, in the interest of preserving the present form 
of government, for each person to be made able to 
get and save enough, individually, for his needs. 
People who have saved several thousand dollars are in- 
terested in a stable, safely-progressive government, 
which will safeguard their money by law and order. 
Old age pensions educate for a socialistic form of 
government and rapidly increase the number of social- 
ists. A man who receives a pension of $800 a year 
wishes for a form of government which will give him 
$1,000. He is a ward of the state, and knows that if 
he and his kind gain control of the government they 
will receive more, as it is practically impossible for a 
revolution to destroy the resources of a country which 
can easily give shelter, plenty of food, and everything 

253 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

needed if properly distributed, regardless of how 
small an amount of cash each receives. 

People generally continue to save after they have 
once made a start, which, however, with present 
wages, they are not always able to do. The teacher 
should tell children in school that a part of every 
one's income should be saved to pay for living ex- 
penses after the fifty-fifth year. To-day the poor 
man knows least how to economize or to get the best 
returns for his money. He has not the least idea of 
the quality goods should possess or what legal rights 
he has for protection. Many work steadily, earn 
good pay, live a modest life, and never save, as they 
spend their money foolishly. Half an hour instruc- 
tion each week in school about the comparative buy- 
ing power of money would have changed the eco- 
nomic condition of many. A child will remember 
all his life when it was shown in school a picture 
representing a twenty dollar gold-piece and what 
can be bought with it, for instance: an Easter hat; 
or room and board for four weeks; or a silver 
toilet set; or two weeks' vacation in the country; or 
a dozen photographs; or fuel and underwear for the 
winter; or a bracelet set with a stone; or a decent 
life if out of work for two weeks. 

I have said already that the average person who 
devotes his brain and muscle to farming is, around 
his fortieth year, after twenty years of work, better 
off, so far as a care-free future is concerned, than the 
average city-dweller. 

254 



RECAPITULATION 



255 



RECAPITULATION 

Many details may give to a simple matter the ap- 
pearance of being complicated. I do not wish to leave 
the reader an impression that correct management of 
the body is difficult. The sum and substance is: that 
nature makes every standard organ in our body able 
to work from ninety to one hundred years; demands 
that all shall be exercised and rested at regular in- 
tervals, and the body wants as fuel daily food con- 
sisting of from eight to twelve ounces of carbo- 
hydrates, from one-half to two ounces of fat, and 
from two to three ounces of proteids. 

Organs which are used too much, or not enough, 
deteriorate and become unfit for work before the six- 
tieth year is reached. Wrong kinds of food, or too 
much, forces the body to work under abnormal condi- 
tions, which is the scientific definition of sickness. 

Most vital organs work automatically and have, 
in addition, regulation for speed and intensity from 
the brain, where nervousness or any wrong mental at- 
titude disturbs the regulating mechanism. The brain 's 
condition corresponds to man's health, ideals, and ac- 
tions, which latter are the result of the kind of life 
we choose to lead, and partially predestined by in- 
heritance, education, and environment. The instinct 
for evolution (self -improvement) and for society 

257 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

(social instinct) must be satisfied, in order to keep 
the mind sound. An unsatisfied sexual instinct may 
become a very disturbing factor, but can, in most 
people, be overcome by occupying the mind and 
body intensely. 

Nature uses the heart, the blood-vessels, and the 
blood to distribute to each organ the food required to 
produce its share in the body's economy and this 
economy becomes impaired when the heart (the driv- 
ing-power), the blood-vessels (the elastic piping), or 
the circulatory medium (the blood), are out of order. 
The degree of the body's impairment is best esti- 
mated by working ability, and not by structural 
change. When sick, the manner of life must be sys- 
tematically adjusted to the state of health, to insure 
the greatest possible degree of efficiency and happi- 
ness. 



258 



XII 



CARE AND CURE 

HOW TO ADJUST LIFE SUCCESSFULLY TO A DEFECTIVE 
HEART AND HARDENED BLOOD-VESSELS 

1. Habits and environments. 

(a) Work and rest. 
(6) Friends and family. 

(c) Food, liquor, tobacco, coffee, etc. 

(d) Bowels. 

(e) Sleep. 

(/) Exercise, vacation, climate, dress, and home. 
(#) The choice of an occupation, 
(ft) Periodical medical examination. 

2. Treatment for a sick heart as long as the patient is able 

to walk and talk without discomfort for at least five 
minutes : 

(a) Nauheim baths. 

(6) Electric (high frequency and other) currents. 

(c) Massage, etc. 

3. Medicines which may help the heart and blood-vessels at 

any stage of sickness. 

(a) Digitalis, Strophantus, Spartein, etc. 

(6) Caffein, Amylnitrit, Mtroglycerin, Morphin, etc. 

(c) Adrenalin, etc. 

4. Benefits to be derived from: 

(a) Stimulants (strychnin, camphor, etc.) 
(6) Sedatives (bromids). 

(c) lodin. 

(d) Pressure on nerves and blood-vessels. 

5. High blood-pressure and arteriosclerosis. 

6. Aneurism, varicose veins, hemorrhoids. 

7. Nervous blood-vessels (angio-neurosis). 

8. The treatment of the nervous heart. 



259 



XII 



CARE AND CUBE 

HOW TO ADJUST LIFE SUCCESSFULLY TO A DEFECTIVE 
HEART AND HARDENED BLOOD-VESSELS 

A person with a defective heart must remain, in Habits and 
everything he does, well within the limit of his Environments 
strength. Tho able to walk fifteen blocks, he should 
not walk more than twelve; tho able to work three 
hours, he should work only two, and rest, if possible, 
every hour for a few minutes, to avoid fatigue. When 
able to get along with seven hours' rest and sleep, he 
should rest and sleep at least nine hours. His recuper- 
ative power is lowered and it takes, when overtired, 
days and weeks to regain strength which a healthy 
person recovers in one night. He endangers his 
future whenever he goes beyond his strength even a 
little, or only to the point where he begins to feel 
tired. He may do as much as an average healthy per- 
son, but he must divide the work into periods of short 
duration. What may happen in a year or two 
must be considered, rather than whether, for the 
present, the heart can stand an effort. The best pro- 
tection for the future is a proper adjustment of 
effort at all times to one's strength. 

261 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

For a person with a sick heart unable to walk, or do 
anything that requires effort, without becoming short 
of breath, the only safe course is to remain quiet, or 
stay in bed, until these things can be done without 
effort and discomfort. 

One's family, associates, and friends should remem- 
ber that excitement, discomfort, and worry are in- 
jurious to a defective heart, and they should make it 
a principle never to mention any trouble except for 
reasons of vital importance. In all demands made 
on the patient, they should consider his weak heart 
and not his ambition or his good will. They will make 
the patient uneasy by asking him continually how he 
feels, or by watching him with a sorrowful expression, 
which, incidentally, is liable to cause a congestion of 
blood to his most vulnerable part, to which they 
continually call his attention. Sympathy is best 
shown to this class of patients by actions rather than 
words. 

The patient must never use his sickness as an excuse 
for being lazy, impatient or exacting; he must re- 
member that sympathy and kindness are not due 
him, if he attempts to prevent those who love him best 
from taking part in any enjoyment because he can 
not participate in it. He should be glad to have his 
friends take relaxation, pleasure, and exercise; other- 
wise they can not increase his own vitality by means 
of their good spirits and animal magnetism. Services 
dutifully rendered but in a spirit of martyrdom, are 
disagreeable. 

262 



THEIR CAEE AND CURE 

Meals should be taken according to the general plan 
laid out in Chapter VI. While it is important for 
all persons to masticate and salivate the food thor- 
oughly, the heart-patient, especially, should pay care- 
ful attention to these points. He must allow at least 
forty minutes for breakfast, an hour for dinner, and 
three-quarters of an hour for lunch. The heart's ac- 
tion is easily interfered with by neighboring organs. 
Every organ when working needs more blood than 
when idle. These are the reasons why a patient with 
a weak heart often feels better when dividing the 
food he takes in twenty-four hours into five, instead 
of three, meals. For instance, instead of taking meals 
at eight, one, and half -past six o'clock, he should dis- 
tribute the same quantity of food over five meals, 
taken at eight, ten, twelve, half -past three, and seven 
o 'clock. 

Three pints of liquid of any kind is the most that 
he should take in twenty-four hours. The habit of 
getting along with little salt should be cultivated; if 
a dropsical condition exists, salt should be left entirely 
out of the diet. Some heart-patients need a little re- 
freshment just previous to retiring, while others are 
better from not taking anything later than three hours 
before sleeping-time, and then only a light supper. 

When the heart is acutely out of order, the patient 
is often greatly helped by taking, for four or six days, 
no other food except four cups of milk daily (with a 
teaspoon) , one at seven, one at eleven, one at three, and 
one at seven o 'clock. If necessary, a biscuit and a few 

263 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

crackers may be added. This diet should be taken only 
under a physician's supervision. It is merely men- 
tioned in order to assure the layman that it will not 
injur? the patient because of the small amount, the 
reason for which is given on page 118. 

The gas, of which many patients complain, is often 
caused by imperfect digestion resulting from bad cir- 
culation or a swollen liver, and not by the food, which 
is well digested after the liver and circulation nave 
become normal. 

Coffee, tea, alcohol, etc., should be avoided, or re- 
duced to the minimum amount which the patient needs 
for his comfort, because of life-long habits in using 
them. A little perchlorid of iron cotton should be 
put into the cigar-holder; it retains the nicotine and 
enables the smoker to enjoy a good cigar with greater 
impunity. 

"Qui bene purgat, bene curat," is an old medical 
law, and means that a physician who makes the 
bowels act properly, just enough and not too much, 
is a good doctor. "Filthy bowels worry the heart" 
The absorbed impurities lower the ability of the red 
corpuscles to take up oxygen and depress the gen- 
eral vitality. Intestines and stomach, when bloated 
with gas, press upward and form an impediment to 
the free action of the heart and necessarily fatigue 
it by their resistance. Too many bowel movements 
cause weakness and make it impossible to normally 
regain strength. 

The importance of sleep can not be over-rated. 

264 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

When the suggestions given in Chapter VIII are fol- 
lowed in so far as is consistent with a sick heart, 
and yet do no good, the patient must not be afraid to 
take medicine which his doctor prescribes. There will 
be no danger of becoming a "dope fiend," on account 
of using medicine that is prescribed by a reputable 
physician during a sickness. Five to eight hours of 
sleep produced by five to ten grains of veronal, or by 
three teaspoonfuls of varelian, or two to three bro- 
mural tablets, or any other inoffensive remedy, with 
the addition of one-tenth to one-sixth grain of mor- 
phin, if there is shortness of breath, does more good 
than the remedies themselves ever can do harm. Sleep 
rests the heart and restores its vitality, both of 
which are needed to make nature's effort of regenera- 
tion possible. Angina pectoris, which is a symptom 
of heart exhaustion, as we have explained, often be- 
comes wonderfully helped by rest alone without any 
medication. 

Concerning the exercise to be taken by a patient 
with a defective heart, so long as it works well, we 
refer to Chapter VIII. When the heart is exhausted, 
the patient must rest completely. Exercises must be 
begun only when he is again able to sleep in a three- 
quarter horizontal position, to talk for five minutes 
and to walk for eight minutes, without becoming short 
of breath. Then the exercises must be taken regu- 
larly without fail, as they train the heart for the 
demands of a normal life (see Chapter VIII. Hy- 

265 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

giene of Exercise). Regular daily walks in a quiet 
neighborhood can not be too highly recommended. 

The patient must be able to go to all the rooms in 
which he lives without getting short of breath. His 
lodgings and working-quarters should be chosen ac- 
cordingly. A home in the country provides better air 
and quiet, but the home should not be too far from 
one's business place, or the car. A suburbanite 
should not hurry to catch trains, nor carry heavy 
satchels. The temperature in the rooms ought to be 
kept as low as consistent with comfort, and the air in 
an artificially heated room should be kept sufficiently 
humid. For vacation, a comfortable, quiet family 
hotel should be selected, in preference to more stren- 
uous places where society makes a show. 

In regard to climate, we refer to Chapter VII. Alti- 
tudes of over 2,000 feet involve a risk for people with 
weak hearts who are not used to them. When passing 
through such places on a journey it is best not only to 
keep quiet but to lie down. High winds, heat, and 
humidity are not well borne by people with a de- 
fective heart who, for this reason, do not feel well 
on a coast unprotected against strong, cold, or dis- 
agreeably warm and moist air-currents. Much elec- 
tricity in the air makes a person, especially one with 
a nervous heart, uncomfortable. Places exist where 
lightning-storms are practically unknown, while, at 
other places, they occur two to three times a week. 

266 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

during the summer. Exposure of the body to an 
extremely low temperature is bad for a weak heart; 
during very hot weather patients must avoid all un- 
necessary effort. 

Plenty of good air increases the general vitality, as 
well as that of the heart, makes it easier for the cir- 
culation to procure the necessary oxygen, and lessens 
the danger of infection of the often sluggish blood- 
stream with pneumonia or tuberculosis bacteria. The 
air should always be pure enough to allow breathing 
exercises two or three times each hour. 

An anatomically defective, yet well-compensated, 
heart permits any occupation to be followed which 
does not at any time make extreme bodily or mental 
effort necessary. A physician, for example, may be- 
come an eye, ear, or heart specialist, but confinement 
cases and the exhausting practise of a general prac- 
titioner in the country would be harmful. For law- 
yers, office and preparatory work is safe, while to 
keep talking in court from three to six hours in 
succession is not advisable. Talking makes almost 
the same demands on the heart as muscular effort 
with the legs and arms. For bankers and brokers 
speculation, or other business that includes much 
risk, is injurious. I refer once more to the first 
lines in this chapter, about the necessity of always 
remaining within the limit of one's strength. As 
soon as a patient feels a decided shortness of breath, 
when doing things which formerly he could attend 

267 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

to without the least effort, he should rest and give 
up temporarily all consideration of gaining wealth 
and power. The family should encourage the patient 
to sacrifice money in preference to his life. Just 
the opposite is generally done from sheer ignorance. 

The dress of the patient should be absolutely com- 
fortable ; clothes that are too warm have the same bad 
effect as weather that is too hot, and are weakening. 
Too heavy overcoats or wraps tire the heart and are 
sometimes the cause of spells of angina. Tight shoes, 
collars, or corsets compress the blood-vessels and force 
the heart to pump harder to make the blood move. 
Blood that stagnates can do all sorts of mischief. 
One needs only to press with the finger a vein on the 
back of the hand to realize how little pressure is 
needed to close a blood-vessel. The discomfort felt at 
first when the feet, head, or waist are too tightly com- 
prest, soon wears off in those places, but the heart and 
nervous system remain disturbed and become ex- 
hausted. For those who can stand it, porous under- 
wear of silk or woolen material is a good protection 
against colds. 

Concerts, plays, and other entertainments should be 
visited, provided they really interest and do not tire 
one. When the entertainment is not too exciting, 
the heart is not troubled by worry, keeps up its auto- 
matic beating and quiets down as in sleep. Seats at 
the end of a row, or in a box, relieve one from the 

268 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

necessity of sitting in an uncomfortable position and 
give a feeling of security in knowledge that one can 
leave during the performance, if necessary, without 
disturbing any one. 

A competent physician should be consulted once or 
twice a year, just as one goes to a dentist to have his 
teeth examined. Generally, no treatment will be 
necessary, or the regulation of a few details in the 
daily regime will serve as a preventative ; but should 
there be signs of reduced reserve strength, work and 
exercise can be reduced and the strength restored to 
the heart before it is too late. Sometimes the patient 
is helped by rest, more out-of-door life, diet, or a 
tonic, such as iron, phosphates, arsenites, etc., which 
build up the general health, a factor, unfortunately, 
often neglected, as in our specialistic era, physicians 
are inclined to treat the heart independent of the 
rest of the body. 

Treatments and medicines having a direct influ- 
ence on the heart and blood-vessels are: 

1. The carbonic acid or Nauheim baths (see page 
207). They should only be taken when the patient is Nauheim Baths 
able to sleep comfortably in a three-quarter horizontal 
position, to walk one hundred steps, or, in other words, 
when the heart has some reserve strength left. They 
should be forbidden to anybody whose blood-vessels 
are very much hardened. The baths may be taken in 
institutions which possess special apparatus for the 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

production of artificial carbonic acid water ; in health 
resorts like Nauheim, where there are warm carbonic 
acid springs ; in other places where the same kind of 
water comes out of the ground cold and is warmed to 
the right temperature ; or at home where they may be 
prepared by chemicals which, under the name of 
"Nauheim baths/' may be purchased at any drug- 
store. A physician should always supervise their use. 
The patient is the best judge of the effect; if they 
tire him they do harm; if he feels better afterward, 
they do good. 

2. For reference to exercises advised for an ex- 
hausted heart, see page 171. For systematically 
graded walks, see page 169. 

3. Most striking results may be obtained by the use 
of electricity, for which the patient is ready when in 
the condition demanded for Nauheim baths. Patients 
with arteriosclerosis and a blood pressure above 180 
are benefited by electricity, while carbonic and baths 
may do them harm. The application of electricity 
is most effective in the form of so-called high fre- 
quency currents, which impregnate the patient with 
electricity. He has not the least sensation of, and 
is not in physical touch with, the electric current. 
The body is brought within the magnetic field, 
into electrified air-waves spreading from wires. 
Altho the electricity is not felt, there is enough in the 
body to light an electric bulb when one is taken in 
the hand. These high frequency currents increase the 
vitality of every muscle, especially the heart, and 

270 



THEIR CARE AND CURB 

decrease a blood-pressure that is too high. As hun- 
dreds of thousands of electric waves, like very fine 
vibrations, reach the body every minute, the blood- 
vessels receive a shaking up, which is thought to re- 
store elasticity to their hardened walls. Galvanic 
faradic water, and four-cell electric baths achieve 
good results, but not such striking ones as high 
frequency currents. 

The patient should never receive any shock or un- 
pleasant sensation ; he should feel certain that he has 
no reason to be afraid, as a disquieted mind destroys 
the possible good effect of electricity. 

4. Vibration and massage are of service when given 
by experts under the careful supervision of a com- 
petent physician. Both are dangerous if given so 
severely that they tire the patient, who is best able to 
decide from his own condition if the treatment is bene- 
ficial. In many other sicknesses the good effect of a 
cure may show itself only months afterward; with 
heart diseases, every application which makes the 
patient uncomfortable and tired is harmful and 
must, at once, be discontinued. 

5. Recently a way has been discovered of put- 
ting the muscles of heart and blood-vessels into better 
order by treating certain of their nerve-centers in 
the spine. The results of this spondylotherapy are in 
some cases excellent and will hardly be believed 
except one has seen them. 

All the treatments mentioned can be recom- 
271 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

mended only as long as the heart has reserve strength. 
Digitalis and When tne reserve is gone and the patient becomes 
other Medi- short of breath after the least effort, then rest, diet 
and medicines must be used exclusively. "We possess 
in digitalis one of the most wonderful heart remedies. 
By comparing the heart to a pump, we may illustrate 
the effect of digitalis by saying that it causes a more 
thorough and extensive stroke of the piston. It should 
be given whenever the heart is making weak beats in its 
effort to circulate the blood for example, when the 
pulse is over ninety. It should not be prescribed when 
the heart-beats are efficient and their number is not 
more than seventy, the cause of the inefficiency being 
located in the nervous apparatus. 

Like any other medicine, the quantity needed for 
the proper effect differs in different people. It is of 
the greatest importance to prescribe the right dose. 
This can be decided only by a physician who, while 
watching the heart's action, increases or decreases the 
dose until just enough digitalis has been taken to re- 
store the heart's working power; this is generally the 
case in from two to five days. If digitalis is given too 
long, or in too large doses, the heart-beats become too 
slow and finally, over-strained, the heart begins to 
work rapidly with many weak and irregular strokes. 
Small doses of the digitalis may be continued for a 
long time as a tonic, providing the character and 
number of the pulse-beats are satisfactory and not 
less than sixty-five per minute. 

There exist many different preparations of digitalis. 

272 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

Most of them have certain advantages, tho some are 
ineffective, particularly old leaves. One physician 
has become used to one, while another prefers an- 
other preparation. If the patient can not take it 
through the mouth, because it disturbs his stomach, 
it may be injected in a vein or given as an enema. 
At any rate, digitalis is, in most cases of heart 
disease, an admirably effective remedy. It seldom 
fails, except when the patient has taken it many 
times and the body does not respond to it, just 
as some people are not affected by tobacco and alcohol 
when accustomed to the use of them all their lives. 
Strophanthus, spartein, and some other drugs act in 
the same way as digitalis and should be used when digi- 
talis is not effective. Dropsy, shortness of breath, 
drowsiness, and threatening death from heart failure, 
disappear in many cases when these drugs are correct- 
ly used, but they are unable to train the heart, 
when later on, in due time, baths and exercises should 
be given for that purpose. 

Another excellent remedy for the heart is caffein or 
drugs composed largely of caffein, such as diuretin, 
theocin, etc. By widening the blood-vessels they al- 
low the blood to circulate more easily. The heart is 
rested and its own nutrition improved on account of 
better circulation in its own arteries. Caffein stimu- 
lates the kidneys to throw off more waste, thus re- 
moving from the body two great sources of danger, 
the retained poison and dropsy. 

Amylnitrate and nitroglycerin relax and widen 

273 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

the blood-vessels and should be taken whenever they 
are contracted and do not permit the heart to pump 
the blood without an exhausting effort (angina pec- 
toris). Together with caffein, alcohol, hot applications, 
and mustard plasters, they often help to keep alive 
a patient whose heart is nearly exhausted. If they 
do not act promptly by making proper room for the 
blood by widening the arteries, morphin must be 
given as a last resort. It steadies the heart, gives to 
the vessels the proper width for the circulating blood 
and last, but not least, allows the patient a little 
relief, when previously, on account of pain, shortness 
of breath, and the feeling of impending death, he 
was bathed in cold perspiration. It must be remem- 
bered that excitement itself cramps the blood-vessels 
spasmodically, a condition which is relieved within a 
few minutes by morphin. In the hands of a physi- 
cian who knows how to use it, morphin is a life-saver, 
and the physician who is afraid to use it is often di- 
rectly responsible for the patient's death. 

Adrenalin, a substance extracted from the little 
glands situated on top of the kidneys, acts in just the 
opposite manner. It contracts the blood-vessels and 
is used when they are so much widened and para- 
lyzed that the blood in them is running as in inelas- 
tic, soft pipes, which is the same as tho an engine 
should try to keep up the same water-pressure with 
the same amount of water in pipes twice the right 
size, which is either impossible or, if possible, it 
puts the heart or the engine under an excessive 

274 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

strain. The over-relaxed condition of the blood- 
vessels is easily diagnosed by the character of the 
pulse. 

Good stimulants are camphor, ether, moschus, and 
alcohol. As mentioned before, stimulants act like a 
whip on a tired horse, not by giving strength, but by 
pushing on to greater effort, which makes it clear that 
this class of drugs should be used only when there is 
hope that, with returning general health, the heart 
will receive a new supply of strength. In many cases, 
such as shock from an accident, pneumonia, hemor- 
rhages, etc., we may save a patient when we can keep 
him alive for a few days until the danger, or crisis, 
is past. Some physicians have the mistaken idea 
that it is always their duty to keep patients alive 
as long as possible, notwithstanding the fact that 
death is really a welcome relief to the poor, miser- 
able body which has suffered agony for years on 
account of cancer, kidney disease, etc. In effect 
the use of stimulants in such patients is as tho a 
man were to stick a knife into a dying animal in 
order to prove to those standing around that he can 
still make it move. 

To remove the disturbances coming to the heart 
from a nervous brain, a mind cure, or sedatives like 
bromids, are sometimes absolutely necessary. Under 
their influence the heart may get a chance to build 
up; without them, uncontrolled emotions drive it on 
or slow it down, without giving it opportunity to beat 

275 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

its automatic pace undisturbed. Medicines like bro- 
mid, morphin, etc., prolong life for patients who 
are temperamentally unfit to stand a sick heart. 

In arteriosclerosis due to any cause, iodin is worth 
trying. Physicians do not know whether to ascribe its 
frequent good effect to action on the hardened walls 
of the blood-vessels, or to its ability to make the blood 
less sluggish and more fluid. Some skeptics say that 
no one has any assurance that his forefathers have al- 
ways behaved properly. Even if one had himself lived 
a chaste life, they claim that the specific healing 
power of iodin is clue to the fact that it is a good 
remedy for everything of syphilitic possibly inherited 
origin. 

Quite a clever device used recently with good re- 
sult to relieve temporarily a tired heart, is to put 
rubber bandages around the upper arms and upper 
legs, in order to dam the blood for ten or fifteen 
minutes. The heart has then only to attend to the 
circulation in the trunk and head. This gives it 
a little rest and afterward it often works better for 
some time. 

Palpitation of the heart is often relieved by an ice 
bag on the left side of the chest, or by pressure on the 
nerves which slow down the heart action ; these can be 
reached with the fingers on the front of the neck. An- 
other good remedy for palpitation is to take the deep- 
est possible breath and then, with the lungs full of air, 

276 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

stop breathing for a few moments, but this must not 
be forced too long, as it may bring on a fainting spell. 
Vibratory massage on sensitive nerve endings all over 
the body often relieves pain in the region of the 
heart which has resisted local treatment. 

It is only within the last few years that almost 
every physician owns and therefore uses a blood- Arterio- 
pressure apparatus and mistakenly often advises a sclerosis 
patient that he suffers from arteriosclerosis, when 
the blood-pressure is found higher than normal, 
which may happen temporarily in sound people 
when they are overfed, bilious, or nervous. 

Patients who suffer from true hardening of the 
blood-vessels can reduce the danger to a minimum by 
drawing their conclusions from the following facts: 

1. Nervousness is a causative and aggravating 
factor in arteriosclerosis. Pages 45-55 and 224-234 
should be reread and understandingly considered in 
the management of one's life. 

2. Constipation and improper food are causative 
and aggravating factors. No person suffering from 
arteriosclerosis should eat more than two to two 
and a half ounces of proteids a day (see pages 90-94). 
These proteids ought to be taken as white meats, 
river-fish, cheese which is not more than half ripe. 
Everything should be avoided which the patient 
knows does not agree with him. The bowels must 
be kept clean. Gases, bloat and offensive odor of 
feces is a sign that intestinal putrefaction exists. 

277 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

This means progress for the trouble, as the putrid 
matter which is absorbed by the blood furnishes a 
main source of injury to the walls of blood-vessels, 
especially in the kidneys. If necessary, laxatives 
must be taken and intestinal antiseptics, to make a 
good, clean start. The continued use of laxative 
mineral waters is injurious. Aloe, cascara, small 
doses of calomel, a fifth of a grain and less, or castor- 
oil, are preferable. The ideal plan is to regulate 
the digestion by diet. 

3. Tobacco must be reduced in quantity and qual- 
ity to the least amount which agrees with comfort 
(see page 117). The drunkards found in poor- 
houses rarely suffer from hardened blood-vessels, 
which is common in people who take heavy wines 
with rich meals. 

4. Whenever there is a history of syphilis, anti- 
syphilitic treatment should be prescribed and every 
patient with arteriosclerosis must take for years 
small doses of iodin or a medicine containing iodin. 

5. A person with arteriosclerosis should consider 
his body as an engine, which can be run with safety 
only with slightly reduced pressure. In very ad- 
vanced cases it may be necessary to keep the patient 
quiet in bed for several weeks; the vast majority of 
patients are better off if kept going regularly at a 
moderate pace (see page 259). 

6. We refer to page 207 and page 267 in regard 
to electricity and Nauheim baths. 

278 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

There is hardly anything more disquieting than the 
suspense which takes hold of a patient when told Aneurism> 
that he suffers from aneurism. An aneurism, as ex- 
plained before, is a blood-filled bag bulging from 
an artery whose wall was previously weakened by 
syphilis or a sudden, violent injury. The danger 
lies in the weakness of the wall, which is likely to 
burst, thus allowing the blood to run out. 

Small aneurisms, the size of a pin head, are found 
on syphilitic blood-vessels of the brain. When one 
breaks the escaping blood interferes with the func- 
tion of the inundated area and the parts of the 
body which are supplied with nerves from the 
affected district become paralyzed. As the rent is 
generally small, the bleeding stops in most cases 
and, after a month or two the patient regains either 
partially or entirely the use of his faculties. 

An aneurism the size of a fist or larger forms on 
the aorta, the big main artery in chest and abdomen, 
and hope for life is gone when it breaks. 

A person conscious of having such a breakable 
dangerous thing in his body naturally is uneasy. 
He will feel somewhat less alarmed if he remembers 
that lately, since we have Roentgen Rays, large 
aneurisms are readily diagnosed, while, formerly 
many were discovered only at post-mortems of people 
who died of old age and never suspected the danger 
they had been in for many years. 

Future generations are not likely to see many 
aneurisms or cases of apoplexy. The blood-vessels 

279 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

can be protected by our modern method of treatment 
against the consequences of syphilis by a physician 
who knows his business. When he gives too little 
medicine, the disease only seemingly disappears, re- 
mains latent in the system and insidiously attacks 
the blood-vessels. Nor, on the other hand, should 
too much medicine be given, as this injures the gen- 
eral health. A patient with an aneurism is safe 
only in the hands of a scientifically and tempera- 
mentally mature physician. Some aneurisms can be 
operated on, and only an experienced man can give 
reliable advice by comparing results obtained without 
and with the use of the knife and electricity. 

In regard to the general treatment of aneurisms, it 
is clear that strenuous exercise, excitement, or any 
thing that increases the blood-pressure must be 
avoided on account of the weak wall. Prolonged rest 
in bed, as formerly suggested, hardly ever does any 
lasting good. The body becomes weak, and the pa- 
tient is generally worse when, after six to twelve 
weeks of enforced idleness in bed, he gets up again 
and realizes that the aneurism is in no way changed 
for the better. Quiet work in an office and intel- 
lectual pleasures and pursuits ought to be recom- 
mended. They do not involve any risk, and take the 
attention away from the ghastly breakable thing in 
the body. 

As medicines, iodin and antisyphilitic remedies 
alleviate the discomfort, altho unable to make the 
blood-bag smaller. 

280 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

The diet should be light. Gelatin, calcium, and 
salt in the food make blood which coagulates quickly 
and, therefore, will stop a bleeding rent more 
promptly. Strain during evacuation and everything 
in the diet which forms gas must be avoided. Con- 
stipation increases, while free bowel evacuation de- 
creases the blood-pressure. 

The main contributory cause for the formation of Varicose 
blood-bags on arteries, the pressure imparted to the Veins, piles 
blood-stream by the action of the heart-muscle, is 
absent in the veins. A vein becomes baggy (vari- 
cose), when the blood stagnates. "Varices/' altho 
uncomfortable, are never, except when inflamed, dan- 
gerous. 

During pregnancy, when the enlarged womb presses 
on the big vein in the abdomen and the blood backs 
up, varices often form on the veins of the legs. 
They are also produced by garters that are bind- . 
ing or by tight lacing. A common cause is standing 
daily for hours. By each motion of the body blood- 
vessels are somewhat comprest at the joints, in the 
muscles, and this helps the blood to circulate. In 
the legs of a person who stands all day, for in- 
stance at his desk or before an ironing-board, this 
help is lacking. People with weak veins can com- 
fortably ride a common bicycle all day, while they 
suffer from varices when using a motor-cycle. Mail- 
carriers often have to continue to make their rounds, 
as their legs won't stand a promotion to office work 

281 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

where they have to stand. Piles or hemorrhoids are 
nothing but varicose veins on the lowest part of the 
rectum, brought on by a heavy, sluggish liver, lack 
of exercise, constipation, pregnancy, etc. Like all 
peculiarities of the circulatory system, the predispo- 
sition for them is inherited and easily traced through 
many generations of the same family. 

The treatment of varicose veins is easily under- 
stood if we remember their cause. 

Pressure on the veins must be avoided as much 
as possible. Tight lacing and close-fitting garters 
have to be done away with. To relieve varicose veins 
during pregnancy the pressure on the big abdominal 
vein by the pregnant womb may be occasionally re- 
lieved by lying on the side or partially on the abdo- 
men. Constipation must be avoided and either by 
a diet or laxative a semi-solid bowel action secured 
daily. As a laxative aloe is badly tolerated, as it 
congests the membrane of the rectum. 

An occupation where much quiet standing is neces- 
sary should be changed for one where some walking 
and sitting is possible. Whenever admissible, the 
legs should be put in an elevated position on a table 
or desk, to make the return flow easier for the blood. 

A person who is otherwise healthy should pour 
cold water for four minutes on the legs and imme- 
diately afterward walk for fifteen minutes. The cold 
water strengthens the walls of the veins and intensi- 
fies the circulation. Half a glass of cold water in- 
jected into the rectum has a similar effect on piles 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

A cold Sitz-bath for five minutes daily, followed 
by a brisk walk is an almost infallible cure for vari- 
cose veins, so many young men worry about and 
become victims of quacks. 

Whenever there is an inflammation of varicose 
veins or in their neighborhood, the patient should 
keep quiet, eat very sparingly, and treat the inflamed 
parts. 

Rubber bandages and operations are to be recom- 
mended only when all other means are ineffective, 
altho the operation is simple and without danger. 
For the removal of piles a rectal specialist is pref- 
erable to the average surgeon and gynecologist who. 
not having experience enough, often removes a little 
too much or not enough, thus preventing the patient 
for years from having a normal evacuation, or caus- 
ing the piles to return after a few years. A physi- 
cian who knows exactly how to proceed, gives almost 
immediate and permanent relief, especially when the 
causes for varicose bagging are henceforth avoided. 

A nervous, but organically sound heart must be 
treated by proper general management of the body, 

i- , j. 1-1^11 /-.Nervous Heart 

and not by applications or medicines which take hold an d Nervous 
of the heart directly. The first and most important Biood-vesseis 
point is for the patient to be examined by a physician 
who is acknowledged to be thoroughly reliable in the 
diagnosis of heart diseases and to believe that his 
heart is organically sound when the physician says so, 
in spite of the fact that other physicians may express 

283 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

a different opinion. In every profession and business 
we find well-drest, fine-looking, confidence-inspiring 
men who are incompetent. We can remove every 
symptom originating from a nervous heart by self- 
reliance, systematically graded training in mental and 
bodily work, common-sense diet, out-of-door life, water 
and air-baths and, if necessary, as medicines, some 
valerian and bromural. It is best to dispense entirely 
with coffee and tobacco. A person who can walk and 
talk an hour without becoming short of breath may 
feel safe in the knowledge that palpitation, irregular- 
ity of the heart, pain in the left side of the chest, 
spells of suffocation, etc., etc., are not caused by a 
functionally insufficient heart, that is, one which inter- 
feres with the efficiency and length of life. However, 
the nervous patient must be true to himself, and to 
nature and try to eliminate every disturbance caused 
by the sex instinct. 

In part 5 of Chapter III we discust at length the 
influence of the mind on blood-vessels. Children are 
born with a more or less stable circulatory system, the 
same as with a more or less easily disturbed mental 
constitution. A light stroke with the finger tips 
causes a red mark on the skin of some people which 
remains for several minutes ; others have to be rubbed 
hard and long to make the skin change its color. 
White marks appear temporarily on the cheeks, or a 
finger or toe gets deadly pale because the blood- 
vessels in such parts contract, peculiarities observed 

284 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

generally in several members of the same family. 
Migraine headache is inherited and produced in many 
cases by a cramp-like contraction or abnormal re- 
laxation of the blood-vessels in certain parts of the 
head. Sour or highly-spiced food makes some, gener- 
ally nervous, people, have a rush of blood to the 
cheeks. During puberty and change of life the 
blood-vessels are especially lacking in stability. Blush- 
ing at the least embarrassing thought is a common 
complaint. The relationship between sexual desire, 
fear, success, etc., and a relaxed or cramped condi- 
tion of the blood-vessels is self evident, after one 
pays attention to it. We have mentioned in Chapter 
III the fact that presclerosis, a condition which often 
precedes the hardening of the blood-vessels, is fre- 
quently brought on by nervousness, which keeps the 
blood-vessels continually on the move, thus wearing 
them out prematurely, and shortening the length of 
life. 

Nervous blood-vessels are treated successfully by 
removing, on the one hand, every avoidable cause 
which disturbs them and normalizing the patient's 
exercise, work, sexual life, food, mental attitude, etc. 
(see Chapters VI to IX), and, on the other hand, 
the blood-vessels must be trained to greater stability 
by water and air-baths, about which detailed sugges- 
tions are given in Chapter X. A judicious course 
of graduated hot to cold douches or baths sometimes 
steadies the blood-vessels in a surprizingly short time. 

285 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

We have in this country institutions especially 
Sanatoriums equipped for the treatment of heart diseases, but it 
must be remembered that it is the man behind the 
gun who hits the mark; and that a thoroughly able 
physician can achieve a cure, even without much 
paraphernalia, while the incompetent doctor, tho he 
may have a complete set of machinery and instrur 
ments, fails. Fortunately, there are in this country 
many places where both a competent physician and 
the best possible apparatus can be found. 

It is neither possible, nor the intention, to teach the 
layman how to treat his own heart. For this reason I 
do not give, in figures, the dose of medicines, nor any 
special instructions as to the manner of treating any 
particular disease, like angina, fatty degeneration, or 
valvular trouble. Even a sick physician is unable to 
diagnose and treat properly his own case, much less 
a layman, who needs in every heart disease a physi- 
cian to prescribe the medicines, diets, exercise, rest, 
etc. I only wish to advise how to keep a sound body 
nd heart in working order until a ripe old age is 
reached, and impart a general idea of the means by 
which a sick heart can be helped, knowledge which 
will necessarily lead to satisfactory cooperation be- 
tween the patient and an honest physician. 



286 



XIII 

FACTS TO BE CONSIDERED IN THE CHOICE 

OF PHYSICIANS, NURSES, HOSPITALS 

AND VACATION TRIPS 

PHYSICIANS : 

1. The personality often a greater factor than the school 

of medicine from which the physician graduated. 

2. Qualifications of a good physician. 

3. The choice of a specialist. 

4. Our medical schools and the protected home talent. 

5. A case from life, illustrating errors of judgment such 

as happen daily. 
NURSES : 

1. As friends in need, and necessary evils. 
HOSPITALS : 

1. Maternities. 

2. Sanatoriums. 

3. Asylums. 

4. Homes for defective children. 
VACATIONS : 

1. Why advisable and where to be spent. 

2. In America. 

3. In Europe. 

(a) Watering places. 
(6) Entire change. 

(c) Time, distance, and perspective change the 
aspect of trouble. 

4. Very sick and deprest people should not travel. 



287 



XIII 

FACTS TO BE CONSIDERED IN THE CHOICE 

OF PHYSICIANS, NURSES, HOSPITALS 

AND VACATION TRIPS 

PHYSICIANS 

Why is it that people entrust their bodies to a 
stranger so much more carelessly than they entrust 
their money;? A physician is often called in, perhaps 
just because he lives in the neighborhood, has a 
pleasing personality, is musical, is a Catholic, a Jew, 
or a Methodist, a relative or a friend of a relative, has 
lived a year in Europe, or has compiled a medical 
book. Corresponding reasons for financial reliability 
would not inspire any intelligent person with sufficient 
confidence to entrust his money for investment to a 
person so illogically chosen. 

The choice of a physician is, of course, difficult. 
Let us imagine a patient in bed, with an allopath on 
one side, a homeopath on the other, an osteopath at the 
foot, and a Christian Scientist at the head, not ad- 
mitting, for want of room, the eclectic, the physiatric, 
the magnetic or other healer. The homeopath re- 
proaches the allopath on account of his big doses 
which may kill; the allopath answers that the small 

289 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

pills of the homeopath can not do any good and that 
valuable time is lost while the patient should be re- 
ceiving some active help; the osteopath insists that 
medicines can not do the work, as the patient's frame 
is all out of order, that the vital force can not reach 
the organs and that he, the osteopath, can straighten 
out the patient with his hands and some common- 
sense suggestions; finally, the Christian Scientist 
says the patient will get well soon if all the doctors 
leave the room and the sick man alone. 

Every one of these different schools of medicine has 
not only faithful, but decidedly intelligent followers, 
who gained their faith on account of results and cures 
which they saw. Statistics show that ninety-eight out 
of a hundred patients would get well in time with 
nothing more than common-sense nursing, such as an 
intelligent member of any school of healing can pre- 
scribe. The chief good which the physician does in 
many cases, is to see that the natural course of the 
disease toward recovery is not interfered with by over- 
anxiety, negligence, or stupidity. He must relieve the 
patient and his family of the dreadful fear that there 
is danger of death. A physician is a God-send, in- 
deed, when he can promise that a child with a high 
fever will recover when the parents are afraid of 
the worst, and absolutely at a loss to know what the 
next day will bring. If his treatment is not of a 
kind that produces clearly to be seen disastrous re- 
sults, he will be a highly welcome guest and, in most 
cases, safely see the patient through the sickness to 

290 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

recovery. If the patient should die, the family will 
usually feel it was the will of God, which could not 
have been crossed. 

Every kind of surgery, regardless of what part of 
the body it is performed on, should be done by a 
specialist whose work depends on his character and 
personal skill more than on the school of medicine 
from which he graduated. 

The public generally over-estimates the personal 
merit in the wonders performed by surgery. Our 
diagnostic reach is still so limited that one surgeon 
will advise an operation, while another, equally 
famed, will oppose it. The progress made in surgery 
during the last century is due partly to anesthetics, 
which permit even an inexperienced physician to 
whittle on a patient, while he is under the influence 
of ether or chloroform, as if he was a piece of 
wood and sew the body like a rent in a coat. 
It is due in part to the fact that physicians have 
finally realized the importance of keeping their hands, 
and everything which comes in contact with the pa- 
tient, clean. Surgeons were formerly just as clever 
as now, but they brought, with unwashed hands and 
unclean instruments, an unlimited quantity of disease 
and death-breeding bacteria into the patient. Our 
present truly helpful stage of aseptic surgery was only 
reached after a long battle. Surgeons did not for a 
long time realize the necessity of being scrupulously 
clean themselves, but, instead, tried to destroy with 
antiseptics, such as mercury and carbolic acid, in the 

291 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

patient's body suali germs as they introduced there 
with their unclean hands or instruments. Some of 
the antiseptics used undoubtedly had an injurious 
effect on the patient. We must all be grateful for 
the benefits humanity now derives from surgery, but, 
true to history, we should be just as much ashamed of 
our past uncleanliness as we are proud of our present- 
day achievements, which can be performed by any 
good surgeon, no matter to what school of medicine 
he belongs. 

In every chronic ailment the patient's symptoms are 
made up of two component parts : one, say forty per 
cent, of his symptoms, is the result of his sickness, 
while the other, sixty per cent., is the effect which the 
first forty per cent, have on his nervous system 
worry, impatience, anxiety, etc. Any doctor who is 
able to remove the sixty per cent, of nervous symp- 
toms will do the patient an enormous amount of 
good, not only mentally but physically. For instance, 
if the patient has locomotor ataxia, or heart disease, 
it is but natural that he should worry about the fu- 
ture, fearing he may become disabled, or a burden to 
others or may die. This perfectly natural nervous 
state interferes with digestion and sleep and lowers 
the general vitality. A thought concentrated on one 
organ produces abnormal congestion of blood there. 
Recovery or improvement means a victorious battle 
of the constitution against sickness. The sixty per 
cent, of nervous symptoms weaken the body and its 

292 



THEIR CARE AND CUBE 

chance to conquer the disease. A physician with a 
strong, powerful personality, who knows how to alle- 
viate fear and worry, improves the patient's sleep, 
digestion, and chance to get well, and by taking atten- 
tion away from the affected organ, removes one cause 
of the patient's getting worse. He will do more good, 
in spite of a possibly wrong diagnosis, than a great 
scientist who understands the case correctly, but keeps 
the patient worried and on the lookout for impending 
dangers, to the exclusion of other interests. 

A fanatical religious healer, a wise-looking ignora- 
mus of a physician, a magnetopath or Christian 
Scientist, may have better success in restoring to a 
chronic invalid sleep, appetite, and the joy of living 
with his firm courage of ignorance, than a thoroughly 
competent physician who, knowing from past experi- 
ence and medical literature the doubtful outlook, finds 
it hard to conceal from the patient his apprehension 
with words of encouragement and cheer. A suspicion 
that something may be wrong starts people worrying. 
A suggestion that a bad egg is good does not make 
it taste any better, but an unfounded suspicion that 
an absolutely perfect egg has a peculiar odor, will 
destroy its fine taste. 

In some respects patients were better off thousands 
of years ago when the same person acted as priest and 
physician; they felt comfortable, even if they did 
not get well, because they felt sure of having a safe 
guide to a good place in another world. 

Just as influential, for good or bad, as the religious 

293 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

fanatic, is the paranoiac physician, who is number ?d 
by thousands all over the world. Paranoia is a state 
of mind in which a delusion is brought into a regular 
system and is firmly believed in. The delusion may 
contain some truth and becomes insanity only because 
of irrational and too far-reaching conclusions. Such 
paranoiacs are those men who wish to remove all ills 
to which humanity is subject for instance, by a cer- 
tain diet, or by treatment of certain parts of the body, 
the spine, the rectum, or the sexual organs. Some dig 
out with most indiscreet suggestions some hidden flaw 
in the patient's soul, by the disclosure of which they 
expect the mind to become well, as by the removal of 
a splinter they heal a sore finger. These paranoiacs 
form schools among physicians and among the laity. 
Finally, the grain of truth in their doctrine becomes 
accepted by science; and so, in course of time, the 
exaggerations of the founders are forgotten, and some 
good is added to the possessions of the race. 

One school of healing has often been a reaction 
against the abuses of another. Homeopathy was the 
reaction against the big and dangerous doses of medi- 
cine that physicians were in the habit of giving. 
Christian Science is the reaction against the material- 
ism of physicians who saw in the patient only a 
mechanism made up of flesh, bones, nerves, skin, and 
blood, and overlooked entirely the tremendous in- 
fluence of the mind, as a moving and regulating power 
over the body. 

294 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

During the last few years physicians have learned 
a great deal about the mind as a factor in curing and 
causing diseases. Only a few avaricious physicians, 
who are seeking self-aggrandisement, continue to 
frighten patients unnecessarily. A confinement, the 
birth of a child, is a physiological, normal event, gen- 
erally attended by little danger, but some physicians 
make out of this physiological a pathological act, sug- 
gesting to the woman all kinds of probable danger to 
kidneys, nerves, breast, etc. They come to attend at 
the confinement with preparations as if to perform 
a major operation. No wonder a frightened mother 
may have no courage to undergo a second time such 
an experience. They instil in the mother's mind dis- 
trust of her own power to give birth to the child nor- 
mally. Fear and distrust have a strong paralyzing 
influence on automatic organs, such as the uterus. 
Such physicians often succeed in making necessary the 
use of instruments and operations where, without their 
interference and suggestions, everything would have 
gone smoothly. 

These are the same men who try to convince their 
patient that his sore throat they treat is dyphtheria; 
a cold, a threatening of pneumonia, which they have 
stopt in time ; a disordered stomach, a dangerous case 
of ptomaine poisoning; constipation and gas, impend- 
ing appendicitis. It is distressing to see how such con- 
fidence men frighten the public and tax the patient's 
purse and vitality with unnecessary drugs and opera- 
tions. These men are responsible for the fact that 

295 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

to-day 17,600,000 people in the United States are re- 
sorting to some form of mental healing. 

Altho in most cases nature does the work and the 
doctor receives the pay, there are other diseases 
in which life depends on correct treatment. It is, 
therefore, well worth while to inform one's self about 
the necessary qualifications of a competent physician. 

A good physician is trustworthy at all times, men- 
tally and morally sound, has a fair medical educa- 
tion, is willing to treat the patient carefully and to 
call in at once a specialist when he is not reasonably 
sure of his own diagnosis and treatment; he acknowl- 
edges that division of labor secures greater profi- 
ciency. A physician must have courage to follow the 
line of treatment he decides on as best, even tho the 
patient objects, and must shoulder the necessary re- 
sponsibility, as nothing is absolutely certain in 
dealing with human life; but he must be open to 
conviction. He must not believe that he is a great 
fighter because he sticks to a wrong diagnosis and 
treatment down to the patient's last breath. 

The really conscientious and scientific physician, 
who realizes the difficulties of his work, will always be 
glad to have an able man with him in the struggle for 
his patient's life. He will not call in a consultant 
merely to justify his own acts, but to help him in the 
examination and treatment. The most successful men 
owe their fame to minute care in examining and 
finding out everything that can help in the diagnosis. 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

Old physicians often know many things theoretically 
that they do not put into practise. Very young doc- 
tors try many things in their practise which they 
know only theoretically. In a difficult case, the two 
working together harmoniously make a good combina- 
tion. The experienced man has already in the past 
met many emergencies, while the inexperienced one 
is likely to meet situations which he has not en- 
countered before, when he must act at once with- 
out knowing what experience in similar cases has 
shown to be the best course. 

A physician is called to help in a misfortune like 
sickness or accident. A friend in need is hard to find. 
Many patients do not get well because they do not 
follow the doctor's orders. If they felt sure that the 
physician was a real friend who treated them as 
he would himself, they would follow his advice im- 
plicitly. They would not refuse to undergo a neces- 
sary operation. The physician who is a trustworthy 
friend is generally appreciated and can use the grati- 
tude of his patients to influence them for their own 
benefit. Young physicians generally start out in their 
profession with the kindest feeling of fellowship to- 
ward all mankind, but, unfortunately, they often be- 
come embittered and mercenary because a few un- 
grateful patients neglect to pay their bills, or feel 
that because the doctor has shown much interest and 
friendship there should be no charge made for ser- 
vices rendered! 

297 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

The physician's reliability can not be measured by 
the number of visits, or by his interest in family gossip. 
One who comes once a day and gives clear, precise 
(preferably written), orders and who thoroughly un- 
derstands the case, is, unfortunately, often dropt for 
the clever medical-peddler who comes three times a 
day, affects interest in every member of the family, 
brings candy to the youngsters, but really does not 
know what is wrong with the patient. 

Another peculiar attitude is that of admiration for 
a doctor who uses continually remedies newly ex- 
ploited in the newspapers. The public does not 
remember the fact that constantly to prescribe 
new remedies is a tacit admission that something 
was often wrong previously. The inefficient arti- 
zan is always in need of new tools. Science does 
not make progress in a straight upward line ; it goes 
in spirals, and what we believe to-day to be a truth, 
the to-morrow may prove to be a mistake, and vice 
versa. The best that the human mind invents needs 
modification before it will work smoothly. When Koch 
first introduced his cure for tuberculosis and Ehrlich 
his for syphilis, many thousands of hard-earned dol- 
lars were spent to receive just the opposite of the ex- 
pected benefit, while now, after more thorough tests, 
we know in which cases and in what doses these 
remedies should be applied. We can use them with 
benefit, and without danger of sacrificing the patient's 
life to newspaper-born enthusiasm. 



298 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

Sometimes the cause and character of a disease 
allow quick diagnosis and cure. In most cases the 
body needs time to make clear its symptoms and to 
conquer the sickness. To specify at once a disease 
with a name is often impossible; the conscientious 
physician has to yield this point to the bold gambler. 
The public ought to know that for a chronic case, 
patience and chronic treatment is necessary, while 
only acute diseases like typhoid, pneumonia, etc., 
may be expected to become cured within a few 
weeks or months. 

When everything is going smoothly on the safe road 
to recovery, the good physician will not with remedies 
and treatment, break in upon nature's regenerative 
work. The public should not impatiently ask that 
something " really should be done" when the well- 
cared-for body is safer without any drugs and will 
be helped, in case of emergency, more promptly by 
medicine to which it has not been accustomed. 

Only the great benefit derived from confidence in a 
physician, the wonderful resisting power of the human 
body, the great achievements reached in the preven- 
tion of diseases, the successful treatment of diph- 
theria, etc., explain why the public has not lost faith 
in the medical art, which has killed, for eighteen 
hundred years, untold thousands, by blood-letting, 
by the use of poisonous drugs, by dirty handling of 
wounds and of women in childbirth, by advocating 
closed windows, and by cruelty to the insane. Until 

299 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

iifty years ago physicians fought with all their might 
against any reform looking to cleanliness, small 
doses of drugs, open windows, etc. The history of 
medicine is the history of fatal errors in well-meant 
work, but so grave were the errors that they should 
teach each physician to judge schools of medicine to 
which he does not belong leniently. Cures are per- 
formed by each school which would be impossible to 
the other. Among unselfish and well-meaning physi- 
cians, a mutual understanding should be reached as to 
what is contained in each to the best interest of the 
patient. There must always be some allowance made 
for jealousy among physicians. As they realize that 
their personality counts a great deal, they are hurt 
when another succeeds where they have failed. It 
seems to them a reflection, to some extent, on their 
person. 

The choice of a specialist is not an easy matter ; for 
instance, in a surgical case. Life often depends on 
the ability of the surgeon. We have physicians who, 
as surgeons and as men, are worthy of the highest 
praise and of absolute confidence. There are others who 
operate in a remarkably skilful manner, but are too 
eager to perform an operation for the sake of money 
and experience, when the patient would have recov- 
ered as well without it. They see nothing criminal in 
advising an operation in cases which can be treated 
just as correctly with as without an operation. A 
surgeon who performs dozens of operations each week 

300 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

and is sure that the patient will not die under his 
knife, feels perfectly justified in advising what he 
considers a sure and short cut toward recovery on 
the operating table, in preference to the presumably 
longer route by medical treatment. He does not 
seem to realize that many patients may leave the 
hospital with their wounds healed, but may need 
years, perhaps, to recover from the effect of the 
shock or the anesthetic. An operation should not be 
suggested unless it is a real necessity. After an oper- 
ation has once been suggested, even tho it is not neces- 
sary to perform it, it needs a superman to reassure 
a patient that he can recover without one. Often he 
must be operated on just to relieve his mind, not be- 
cause the sickness demanded it. 

A clever surgeon may perform an absolutely un- 
necessary operation, which may still do the patient a 
tremendous amount of good, as many people are helped 
by a decided change, especially when allowed, as an 
operated patient, to hold for some time the center of 
the stage in the family. An unnecessary operation 
may have almost as great a suggestive effect as Chris- 
tian Science. 

One of the world's best surgeons wrote in 1913, to 
twenty patients, from each of whom he had removed 
a perfectly sound appendix. These patients had 
come to see him, complaining of symptoms which 
are considered sure signs of chronic appendicitis. 
After the abdomen had been cut open, it was found 
that the appendix and all other organs were macro- 

301 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

scopically and microscopically perfect. On inquiry, 
seventeen of the twenty persons who had been mis- 
takenly operated on declared that they had been 
cured by the operation of abdominal pain and stub- 
born constipation. Only three were not decidedly 
improved by an unnecessary operation. 

Many operations are recommended as necessary by 
every competent surgeon. But surgery is not always 
an exact science, in so far as it concerns the diagnosis 
and the decision as to whether an operation shall be 
performed. For instance, in appendicitis, it is better 
to operate on all patients, altho eighty-five out of a 
hundred would get well without an operation; it is 
only the fifteen in a hundred that the operation is 
necessary to save their lives. As, however, no physi- 
cian knows whether the patient can get well without 
an operation until he has been cut open, no way is 
left except to operate unnecessarily on the eighty-five 
in order to save the fifteen. It is the same with 
many kinds of tumors; no one can foresee if a harm- 
less one, for instance, in a woman's breast, may not 
become malignant. In spite of all this, the office of 
State Surgical Inspector should be created; the in- 
spector should be a competent physician, but with 
no right of jurisdiction. He should collect statistics 
by an inspection of all tissues removed by operations ; 
this would suffice to act as some curb to the enthusi- 
asm of inexperience. 

It is a peculiarity of most people who make a deep, 
exclusive study of one subject, that, to them, its prin- 

302 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

ciples seem to apply everywhere; they entirely over- 
step its real limits. This is the case with the nerve 
specialist, to whom every disease seems to be a nervous 
one ; or with the dancer who feels that she can express 
a Beethoven symphony by a leg-motion; or with the 
politician who promises to cure all the evils of envy 
and inefficiency, by limiting the power of foresight 
and ability. It is the same with all these as with 
the surgeon who hopes, by shaping and cutting the 
body, to reach the sum and substance of life. 

We have in this country medical schools which are 
as good as the best in Europe, altho one branch may 
be better here and another there. We also have here 
medical schools where the teachers and other facilities 
do not offer to the student an opportunity of acquir- 
ing knowledge of the essentials such as he should pos- 
sess before he is allowed to make, without the least 
supervision, a living from the misery, sickness, and 
confidence of frightened patients. There should be 
a uniform examination in all States of the student 
at the bedside, in the operating-room, and the 
laboratory in order to prove that he is a person 
to be trusted. The public generally does not know 
that at present state board examinations for a physi- 
cian's license are taken in a business office and consist 
of answering about a hundred and twenty questions 
in writing, which is virtually only a test of the 
memory and industrious cramming. 

There are States with poor medical schools which 

303 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

impose purely theoretical examinations on men who 
have graduated at the head of their classes in the best 
eastern colleges and who have practised successfully in 
New York and Chicago for many years, during which 
time facts and experience had crowded from their 
memories mere words and much merely theoretical 
knowledge. In the case of a man who had gradu- 
ated with a low average from a school in another 
State, or from some objectionable school, there may 
be good reason why he should be re-examined when 
he comes into a new State to practise, but life is 
more important than wool and iron and an examina- 
tion should not be used to act like a prohibitive tariff, 
to protect an inferior medical home-product against 
better educated physicians, who may be able to save 
one's mother or a child, whom the former are un- 
able to help. 

Public opinion is a great power for good, but only 
when wrongs are known to exist can they be remedied. 
For this reason let me cite a case selected from thou- 
sands of similar ones, which will exhibit a well 
meaning physician injuring a patient by a seemingly 
correct treatment of a disease, a specialist was called 
in to perform an irrational operation, and Providence 
saved the life, but for these services the family grate- 
fully paid hundreds of hard-earned dollars to a doctor 
who really was the cause of most of the dangers and 
the great length of the sickness. 

It is a case of a widow with an old mother and two 
children who had just moved into a large city in one 

304 



THEIR CAKE AND CURE 

of our western States. The old lady fell and hurt her 
forehead. A physician, whose name they happened 
to know, was telephoned for, came and put in a few 
stitches and the wound healed. This little operation 
could have been performed by any person of ordinary 
intelligence ; but the family considered it had enough 
of a test of his ability to warrant them in entrust- 
ing to this doctor the health of the family. An 
epidemic occurred. One daughter became ill with 
typhoid, and the doctor advised, quite correctly, that 
she be taken to a hospital, but, of severally equally 
good ones he recommended the one against which 
the frightened mother had a prejudice, as she had 
heard rumors of its being loosely managed; more- 
over, it was the one farthest from her home. The 
doctor preferred particularly this hospital because 
he was on its staff and so could promise that the 
patient would be treated there with special con- 
sideration. The best private room was secured for the 
patient, but unfortunately, it was on the floor reserved 
for surgical cases. Well-meant kindness was here a 
mistake. This typhoid patient did not belong in that 
place as she could not share in its bathing, dieting, 
and nursing facilities, because of the danger of in- 
fection to surgical patients. On the infectious floor, 
however, everything was in a beautiful state for such 
a case. The child was worse off among the surgical 
cases than it would have been at home. 

This doctor had learned that typhoid patients either 
should be fed very lightly, in order to spare the dis- 

305 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

eased intestines, or with a liberal, very nourishing 
liquid diet, in order to keep the body in the best possi- 
ble condition. He decided on the last diet as more 
modern and so prescribed milk, which the child never 
had liked, and five eggs daily, when two were the most 
she ever had been able to take without becoming 
nauseated. The natural result was that the intestines 
became badly bloated. As in all cases of typhoid, 
there were ulcers in the intestines which became 
stretched from distention of the bowels, leading to an 
eroded blood-vessel bursting and this brought on a 
large hemorrhage. The prescribed diet, altho excel- 
lent in most cases, was wrong for this patient whom 
it brought to death's door. 

During a hemorrhage the heart becomes weak, the 
patient faint. In order to direct a greater amount of 
blood to the head, it is customary to lift the foot-end 
of the bed, and thus cause the head to lie low. The 
doctor ordered this to be done, but instead of putting 
the bed on a level again after the fainting had passed, 
he left the foot-end elevated, with the result that the 
child lay there for weeks with a bluish red-swollen 
face and its intestines over-flooded with blood, which, 
necessarily, ran down from the legs. 

The first thought when we see blood is to compress 
or bind the blood-vessels whence it comes. This 
doctor, holding to the most advanced surgical ideas, 
called in a colleague to help him operate by binding 
up the blood-vessel in order to make sure that the 
hemorrhage would not occur again. To find in several 

306 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

dozen ulcers the artery which had just stopt bleeding, 
is about as difficult as to find a needle in a hay-stack. 
The consulted surgeon, accordingly and fortunately, 
refused to perform what was an impractical opera- 
tion. 

The child had high fever all through its sickness. 
Hardly any better means exist for lowering a fever 
than cold packs. It so happened that the delirious 
child had an aversion to packs and twice a day there 
was a battle between her and two or three nurses be- 
fore getting her in the pack. All day long she waited 
with dread for the nurses to come in. If there had 
been no other way for lowering the temperature, it 
would have been all right for the doctor to insist on 
cold packs. While he could not use the public bath- 
tub on the surgical floor, he was at liberty to give 
sponge-baths, which later were very successfully re- 
sorted to, and caused the child to become less nervous 
and fretful. 

Altho castor-oil is one of the best of laxatives, un- 
fortunately, there was another fight every second 
evening between nurses and the child when this rem- 
edy was forced down. Often the patient got ahead of 
the nurses by vomiting it. Dozens of less disagreeable 
laxatives would have answered the purpose just as 
well. 

Frightened by the hemorrhage, this doctor went to 
another extreme in feeding, allowing for weeks 
nothing else than broth and gelatin. When the 
child's heart threatened to give out, a medicine was 

307 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

prescribed in place of a more liberal diet. This medi- 
cine was not an old standard remedy, but something 
entirely new, and kept only in one drug-store, which 
later on became sorry that it had ever carried it, as 
it proved to be worthless. 

And yet the poor mother, frightened at the thought 
of losing her child, could hardly express gratitude 
enough to the doctor who had showed his interest by 
visiting his patient as late as twelve and one o 'clock at 
night, overlooking the fact that his first visit had been 
made as late as two o'clock in the afternoon, up to 
which time the nurse had often remained without in- 
structions. 

When all the symptoms finally disappeared and the 
child was ready to leave the hospital, the physician 
advised keeping her there for two weeks longer, as 
he had heard of cases (so he told the mother), where 
the patient had died long after all manifestations of 
the disease had seemingly disappeared. This, too, was 
well meant, but as the expense was $120 a week for 
room, two special nurses, and their board, it was 
a great burden for the mother, a working-woman, 
to bear. 

During convalescence the doctor was, as always, 
very friendly and spoke of the operations he had per- 
formed. One day when very tired he seemed happy, 
as he had succeeded in removing almost a dozen tuber- 
cular glands from a child's neck. Another day he 
spoke of having taken out, in almost record-breaking 
time, the two badly inflamed ovaries of a young 

308 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

woman. To the layman these operations appeared to 
be glorious achievements, but they only proved that 
the doctor possest technical skill, and had not had ex- 
perience enough to advise wisely whether or not an 
operation should be performed. The tubercular glands 
of a child are likely to grow again after being re- 
moved, while a hygienic life and proper general rem- 
edies would have made them disappear permanently. 
The young woman mentioned above was crippled for 
life, whereas she would have been permanently cured 
by a course of patient treatment by any doctor who 
had had an opportunity of seeing women become 
victims of incurable depression after they had been 
half-sexed by an operation. 

What are we to learn from this case? 

First, that we should inform ourselves about physi- 
cians in advance, and not depend on luck to find the 
right one in an emergency. 

Second, that, altho we should be grateful for pains- 
taking efforts, we should insist on a second doctor 
being called in for regular consultation, when the 
medicine, diet, and treatment prescribed by doctors 
do not have the desired results. No sensible physi- 
cian will resent such a suggestion. When sick 
themselves, doctors are most apt to change their medi- 
cal advisers. Four eyes see more than two. Every 
one's life is as important to himself as that of the 
king or millionaire to himself; the latter, when dan- 
gerously sick, always call in two or three physicians. 

The fault with the physician referred to here was 

309 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

that he was not a true friend of the patient; his de- 
votion was only superficial. We have a right to ex- 
pect a physician to give his patient the benefit not only 
of his own knowledge, but to see that the patient gets 
the best that medical science can afford. This doctor 
knew he was inexperienced; he unnecessarily experi- 
mented on dangerous ground. A more experienced 
colleague could have shown him a safe, tried method 
of treatment. That the life of this patient was saved 
was due to Providence alone. One shudders to think 
of the dangers and suffering to which the poor child 
and mother were unnecessarily exposed. It is to the 
interest of all that physicians receive the best pos- 
sible training. They should be compelled to pass 
through tests before they are allowed to handle, un- 
controlled, the lives of others. 

NURSES 

It is hardly possible to give any higher praise to the 
profession than to record the fact that the death-rate 
and suffering generally from almost all diseases has 
been materially decreased by the efficiency of well- 
trained nurses. Conditions would be yet more satis- 
factory if nurses could be fitted in training-schools 
with the right kind of character, as well as with scien- 
tific knowledge. Nursing is a remunerative business, 
compared with many other occupations, and $25 a 
week lures many into this profession for which they are 
temperamentally unfit. There is hardly any occupa- 
tion in which mere knowledge without Christian char- 

310 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

acter is of so little avail. By Christian, I mean 
unselfish love of our fellow-beings and the faculty of 
returning kindness for unkindness. Turks and Jews 
may have these qualifications, and at the same time 
they may be lacking in persons who go to Christian 
churches three times a week. Ability will do no 
good when the nurse is inconsiderate and negligent. 
When considering the thousands of lives that have 
been saved by good nursing, for the nurse's and 
for humanity's sake, we should not forget the many 
lives which have been injured and cut short by 
bad nursing. Most nurses who graduate from good 
hospitals can be relied on to know the right thing to 
do, but they can not always be relied on, the same 
as their less well-instructed sisters to act in the best 
interest of a patient. Many a patient has caught 
pneumonia because a nurse was too indifferent to 
keep him covered at night, when he was restless. 
Many a case has ended with blood-poisoning, because 
a nurse became tired of repeatedly disinfecting herself 
when attending to her manifold duties. Many help- 
less invalids have been burned by hot water-bottles, 
have been given improper food, or have had adminis- 
tered a deadly dose of strychnin or morphin, through 
rank carelessness. What terrible inhuman creatures 
are some strong nurses who have punished a lonely, 
suffering patient in small ways, by disdain, or by not 
speaking to him, because when in pain or despair, the 
patient neglected to show appreciation, or asked for 
warm food or a clean bed. 

311 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

It goes without saying that a nurse who is not ob- 
serving, thoroughly clean and exact in everything 
she does, says or records, who talks about her private 
affairs, about sickness and depressing subjects, and 
who makes the family and the patient feel that 
she is the boss, should be dismissed. Such nurses 
may be perfectly competent in cases of emergency 
or during a short, acute illness, but they can not 
be trusted to sacrifice, for any length of time, 
their own to the patient's comfort. They generally 
injure more by what they neglect to do than by what 
they do. Many a chronic invalid has been made 
miserable and driven almost to insanity by being 
placed in the care of a nurse who was intellectually 
superior, but uncongenial, domineering, and who spent 
much of her time fixing her hair and finger-nails and 
in rocking, with her thoughts on her own self and her 
gentlemen friends. As long as a nurse is on duty, 
she is paid to give all her time and energy to the 
welfare of the patient. Nurses who lack self-reliance, 
need praise as a stimulus to and an assurance that 
they are doing right. To others, already self-con- 
fident, praise gives an inflated estimate of their ability, 
leading to conceit. This will lessen their value to 
physicians, whom they may fancy they can supersede, 
and to the patient whom they may treat haughtily 
when they feel they are not sufficiently appreciated. 
Many a woman possest of good nursing qualities has 
been spoiled by stupid admiration from a patient, 
or an unsophisticated physician. 

312 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

On the other hand, patients should remember that 
nurses are hired to do nursing and not to be occupied 
continually, and that the patient 'gets the worth of 
his money if he receives proper attention and care, 
even tho the nurse is not continually on the move. 
By not remembering this, many narrow-minded people 
lose competent and devoted nurses. Would-be aris- 
tocrats show their real status in life by relegating 
a faithful and self-sacrificing nurse to the serv- 
ants' quarters for meals. While $25 a week may 
seem large pay to people whose sterile minds are in- 
capable of appreciating anything but money, they 
should remember that the personal interest they are 
getting is something not to be bought by money. 

Endurance in body and mind is limited. These same 
narrow-minded patients do not understand that they 
themselves would be better taken care of, if they gave 
a nurse every day two or three hours off duty and 
every week a whole afternoon. It goes without saying 
that a life which is in danger can not be watched 
carefully by one person longer than her strength per- 
mits. To keep a nurse on duty day and night, or 
until she is exhausted, is a great risk to the patient 
and, besides, if continued long, disables a willing nurse 
for further good work before she is forty years old. 

Satisfactory appreciation can come only from peo- 
ple who understand one's work. Every one should be 
taught in school, for his own sake, the essentials of 
domestic nursing; in sickness, he could then better 

313 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

help himself and would also understand what good 
nursing is. 

We can not expect to have more satisfactory 
nurses until the hospital authorities realize that 
patients do not wish for marble stairs and gorgeous 
halls so much as for considerate and competent nurs- 
ing. The same zealous attention should be given to 
the welfare of nurses as to the plaster and machin- 
ery. The life and strength of nurses are at present 
often misappropriated as they are frequently made 
to do the work of orderlies and chambermaids. Un- 
fair treatment does not ennoble a character; when 
to this is added the bad influence of money-mad phy- 
sicians, we see why many nurses do not become friends 
in need, but rather a necessary evil in sickness. 

HOSPITALS, MATERNITIES, AND SANATORIUMS 

A hospital is the proper place for a patient who 
has an acute sickness, or has to be operated on. A 
hospital should offer the combined advantages of com- 
petent physicians, supervised and trained nurses, im- 
mediate accessibility to everything helpful in a case 
of emergency, facilities for scientific examination, well 
kept, clean rooms, a quiet neighborhood, and good air. 
Such a combination, giving the best possible chance 
for a cure, scarcely ever can be had in a private home. 
Every intelligent person should look upon a hospital 
as a possibly necessary, temporary, living place for 
himself, and, therefore, should take some interest in 
hospitals. We have many satisfactory hospital build- 

314 



THEIR CAEE AND CUBE 

ings, tho, in some of them, ventilation is not per- 
fect and over-heated air retards recovery. The 
main source of complaint is always the people who 
have charge of the hospital and the nursing force. 
Undoubtedly, a reaction is soon to come with the cry 
for "More love and less marble. " 

Since physicians have realized that cleanliness is 
next to godliness and manage maternities accordingly, 
no woman should hesitate to go there for a confine- 
ment, and, in gratitude, should make an effort to havs 
others built for the use of the poor, where indigent 
women can go to rest for six weeks or so before con- 
finement and to eat nourishing food in order to make 
the child strong. Many poor mothers, for whom a child 
constitutes a financial burden, take better care of their 
offspring later on, if they have had the advantage of 
being made comfortable in a hospital after the child's 
birth and there feeding it for a few weeks from their 
breasts. 

Even well-to-do women sometimes have incom- 
petent help, or none at all, and frequently do not know 
how to run a household without worrying about un- 
important details. A quiet, well-lighted room often 
can be had only by making the rest of the household 
iincomfortable. To prepare a room properly for a 
confinement is a task and expensive. If, in case of 
emergency, something out of the ordinary is needed, 
delay in getting it may endanger the life of the 
mother or the child. These are the reasons why it is 

315 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

safer and more economical for women to go to mater- 
nities, many of which have recorded thousands of 
confinement cases in succession, without a single day 
of sickness for a mother or child. It is unfortunate, 
but nevertheless true, that crowded city quarters de- 
prive a mother of the possibility of giving birth to 
her child as safely in her own home as in a mater- 
nity. 

None but incurable, tubercular, and aged people 
should be allowed to remain longer than six weeks in 
a sanatorium, in which body and mind are not 
systematically occupied according to a person's abil- 
ity. No real improvement is possible, except when 
rest is combined with training. It is not enough that 
the patient feels better because he is relieved of the 
trouble and worry which kept him stirred up at home. 
People with chronically sick bodies should have their 
minds occupied and mentally sick people should have 
their bodies occupied ; both should receive, as soon as 
possible, carefully graduated, systematic training for 
the diseased part; otherwise patients are likely to be- 
come chronic invalids, self-conscious, and, by watchv 
ing themselves, they keep the sick organ in a state 
of congestion. 

Neurasthenics who have become such from over- 
work, should be able, after six weeks, to live some- 
where in a quiet place, where they may have oppor- 
tunities of associating with whole-souled, cheery peo- 
ple, enjoying nature and busying themselves out of 

316 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

doors. For the born neurasthenic and hysteric, abso- 
lute rest for four weeks is the limit to be coun- 
tenanced. The thoughts and feelings of these people 
do not need relaxation and rest; they need to be 
straightened out and put, like soldiers, in rank and 
file, instead of being allowed to run amuck where- 
ever they choose. This becomes possible only by sys- 
tematic bodily and mental work, not by card-playing, 
lectures, needlework, and billiards. A sanatorium for 
such people should be in a training-school not a lazy 
bed. 

We have many excellent private insane asylums 
worthy of absolute confidence, but, as a general rule, 
public ones are more to be trusted, as they are, in 
spite of, or, perhaps, on account of, newspaper notori- 
ety, better supervised. In a private institution an insane 
patient may complain about poor food and bad treat- 
ment, and no outsider can know whether it is the 
truth or a delusion. The doctor, superintendent, and 
nurses being responsible and financially interested, 
naturally deny the charges, and so the poor patient 
may continue to be mistreated. There is absolutely no 
possibility of knowing the truth in spite of pleasant 
talk and clean parlors. In state asylums, however, 
there are too many people who see things to permit 
continued mistreatment. The well-to-do should have 
an opportunity of obtaining private rooms in state 
institutions; they have a right to such benefit from 
their wealth; but the money made from this source 

317 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

should be used in paying the expenses of the whole 
institution. The state is a guardian of all the in- 
sane, and not of the poor insane only, the wealthy 
ones being in need of help just as much. 

State institutions can keep permanently a staff of 
competent physicians and nurses. This is not the 
case with most private institutions, in which the at- 
tendants are hired temporarily, and depend in their 
number on the number of guests. When unable at 
once to find a proper attendant, any decent-looking 
person is often accepted in these institutions, whether 
or not he has the right disposition to take care of 
an insane, helpless, and often uncongenial person. The 
attendants should be paid at least as well as a good 
mechanic, or other skilled workman; their work de- 
mands a great deal of endurance, kindness, and self- 
control. 

The majority of insane people are not insane all 
the time and in every sense; they have some intelli- 
gence left, and this goes to waste if not used. In 
asylums where patients work, they do not become 
idiots as soon as those in asylums where there is 
nothing for them to do. Occupation makes many 
less violent and more contented. State institutions 
offer better* opportunities for work, as they may 
have farms and factories and need not consider the 
financial returns. To be deprived of work is pun- 
ishment for a criminal when in prison; it would 
soon make an even perfectly sane person insane if, 
in addition, he had to live in an asylum. 

318 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

Parents with children who are three or four years 
behind normal in mental development, or who are 
morally defective, ' should not hesitate to entrust them 
for four to ten years to a boarding-school provided 
with kind and faithful teachers, especially trained 
and experienced in the education of sub-normal chil- 
dren. The aim must not be to stimulate a single gift 
or to push the child to the level, temporarily, of the 
perfectly normal one ; for that may be at the risk of an 
early breakdown. Congenital limitations must be con- 
sidered when staking out the goal with a view to mak- 
ing the child law-abiding and fit to take care of himself. 
For instance, the backward son of a clothing merchant 
might succeed in becoming a good small farmer, but if 
an effort were made to have him succeed his father in 
his city business, he might finally become a jail- 
bird. 

For the defective poor, the government should pro- 
vide such schools; the money spent for them would 
be saved in the larger expenses for asylums and 
prisons, where the neglected, inferior child otherwise 
lands. It is easier to form than to reform a child. 

VACATION TRIPS: AMERICA AND EUROPE 

It is not long since people prided themselves on 
never having taken a vacation. To-day we know 
that a vacation is a good investment. An engine 
which has run for eleven months needs some repair 
and looking after. Our body is capable of repairing 
itself and its repair method is rest. Any part of the 

319 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

brain which has been used continually for the same 
kind of work, gives out after fifteen or twenty years, 
while, if allowed to repair itself by a month's rest 
each year, it will remain in good working order 
twice as long. I have already referred to the effect 
which a change in crops has on soil ; it is like a change 
in occupation for a man. 

The reason for taking a vacation indicates at once 
the way it should be spent : There should be brought 
about a change of occupation and freedom from the 
annoyances that had to be tolerated during the other 
months of the year. This common-sense rule is not 
followed by those who utilize a vacation in doing 
odds and ends, clearing up business matters, or at- 
tending to self-imposed duties at home, for which 
they did not previously have time. Such people 
return from a vacation as unfit for enthusiastic work 
and progress as when they left. The same thing will 
occur when an unreasonable amount of sport, of 
sight-seeing, of studying, or of dancing, etc., have been 
crowded into too short a time. All through this book 
I have tried to make it clear that the energy spent 
in one direction is lost for another. For instance, 
if all the strength the body can muster up is spent 
in mountain-climbing, swimming, and tennis play- 
ing, there is no energy left to store up for business. 
"We should use only so much strength as will leave 
us, after exercising, fit and eager for more; this 
means that there is a surplus remaining which is 
added to the body's reserve. Another point to be 

320 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

considered when planning a vacation is, that work 
wears one out less than friction; to obtain the best 
results we should get away from everything uncon- 
genial. 

Tastes differ as much as faces and can rarely be 
changed in two or three weeks. One person will 
derive the greatest benefit by going to a golf-club, 
another to a fishing-resort, another to the mountains 
and another to the seashore. For one man, it may 
be best to leave his wife at home and on his return 
prove to her it was to the interest of both to sepa- 
rate for a time; for another it may be impossible 
to spend any kind of a satisfactory vacation with- 
out wife and children. Those who live in small 
towns can gain new interests by going to New York 
just as the city-dweller may find inspiration from 
a stay in the country. 

The kind of society one may expect to meet is 
another factor. Some find satisfaction for ambition 
and efforts in a place where smartly drest people 
are admired; others are pleased when they find 
men with whom to rough-it, or ladies who smoke 
cigarets, while many find the most congenial en- 
vironment in a place where even men detest a drink. 
Each derives the greatest benefit when he finds just 
what he wishes, but one's associates should be of 
a kind who give encouragement, but do not over-do, 
undo, or criticize things. The former inspire, while 
the latter have a bad influence and are likely to 
disturb an already over-worked brain. 

321 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

Weather probabilities must also be taken into con- 
sideration. Altho a landscape may be beautiful 
when it rains, sunshine and dry air regenerate the 
body quicker than a clouded sky and humidity. For 
this reason, it is safer to go to sunny Colorado than 
to the just-as-picturesque Canadian Rockies. Ideal 
playgrounds in each season can be found in Cali- 
fornia. So-called seasons are not made by the fancy 
idea of society; they generally coincide with the best 
weather conditions. 

This country has springs just as beneficial as those 
in Europe, but we have not found time to develop 
and systematize their use, as has been done in Carls- 
bad, Vichy, Nauheim, Baden-Baden, etc., where phy- 
sicians have become specialists in treatment of liver, 
heart, and rheumatic and blood troubles, the spe- 
cialty depending on the chemical composition of 
springs. Many communities live exclusively from 
and for a certain cure, making it almost impossible 
for visitors to break away from a prescribed regime; 
city administrations keep unwholesome temptations 
away and substitute inducements that make guests 
feel at home. Such development has required time, 
and, until we have reached a similar state of per- 
fection, a trip to some European mineral springs 
may be properly recommended. 

Such a trip offers other advantages. Progress and 
life in our country are more rapid ; those who can not 
step quickly are left behind. In the old countries, 

322 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

the general procession moves much more slowly; for 
many Americans such a slowing down for a few 
months provides wholesome relaxation. 

Italy, England, France, and Germany are old coun- 
tries with art treasures that have been stored up 
for a thousand years or more. They have had 
sufficient time to develop the comfort and luxuries 
of life more fully than America. Youthful nations, 
the same as individuals, admire physical proficiency 
and achievement. The boy wants to be a cow-puncher, 
chauffeur, or rough-rider. The young nation sees the 
most glorious work of a man in the accumulation of vast 
fortunes, the building of sky-scrapers, the running of 
fast trains, etc. Every year about a million immigrants 
from the lower classes of all countries come to our 
land where they are cordially welcome; they neces- 
sarily keep the standard of our civilization in a 
youthful stage. For this reason Americans of gentle 
birth feel quite at home when they spend a few 
months in London, Paris, Rome, or Berlin, where 
a large part of the native population require, in 
art, literature, and the whole daily routine, recreations 
for which a market and taste have not been gener- 
ally developed in our country. 

Time and distance from the cause of worry and 
anxiety are often needed in order to get a good 
rest. The Atlantic Ocean and the impossibility of 
being called up at any time by telephone, become 
safeguards for easily-startled nerves. 

Distance is often necessary to give a right per- 

323 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

spective. So long as an unsuccessful business, a bad 
son, an uncongenial husband or wife, is directly 
before the eyes, they are big enough to shut out the 
view of the rest of the world. Their size and im- 
portance often decrease in proportion to distance 
when other things are seen ; finally they appear as the 
unavoidably unpleasant things of life, while for- 
merly they filled the whole existence, to the exclu- 
sion of everything else. 

After one has returned, the wife, the husband, the 
partner, and the business often look better and more 
satisfactory ; they are easier to get on with than when 
one went away. This is not theory, but a proven fact. 
Things look different when there is a different con- 
dition in the nerves. All we see, hear, and feel is 
only a reflection in ourselves of impressions which 
our eyes, ears, and senses receive from the outside. 
When we are not well, those impressions are as dis- 
torted just as are pictures when taken on the spoiled 
plate of a camera. The length of time during which 
a person should keep away from the source of his 
trouble is an important factor. Often a year will be 
needed before the idea, for example, of a dissolution 
of a marriage or partnership will be given up. 

Many nervous men and women who have lost self- 
reliance find in Europe a tonic. At his home in 
America a man may have been black-balled in each 
decent club, in spite of his money, while, in Europe, 
a 50c. tip to a waiter or a bellboy, will secure 
for him special attention, and make him feel like 

324 



THEIR CAKE AND CUBE 

a person of importance; his peculiarities are taken 
merely as due to foreign customs. Ignorance and 
depravity are often covered by intelligent and pleasant 
faces and fashionable clothes; even friends at home 
hardly know what is beneath. Women who have bored 
every one at home, are often able to charm European 
acquaintances and are received as distinguished 
Americans. This gives them a feeling of self-satis- 
faction so that the everyday disappointment which 
they felt at home ceases; the nerves, sleep, and appe- 
tite become better and the body stronger. To this 
class belong the unfortunate ones for whom the 
home environment has become like a prison. 

To be compelled to be daily in the company of an 
uncongenial, disturbing person, may be sufficient to 
spoil the joy of living, the peace, the appetite, and 
the sleep of a whole family. Every physician knows 
cases of people who were practically disabled until 
objectionable persons had been removed from their 
presence by a trip to Europe or around the world. 

People who are in danger of dying in the near 
future should never be sent far from home ; a life in 
its last stages can not be saved in one place any better 
than in another. 

A patient should be given exact information as 
to the place to which he should go for treatment, and 
not be left to follow some man whom he meets on 
the steamer, who has a friend whose cousin was cured 
of almost exactly the same trouble. Many trips 
are spoiled from lack of congenial company; this is 

325 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

a point always to be seriously considered before start- 
ing, and not left to the chance of finding the right 
people on the way. 

Much sight-seeing should be avoided by patients 
whose sickness becomes worse when fatigued; for in- 
stance, those affected with heart disease, locomotor 
ataxia, or certain forms of nervousness. Trips do no 
good as long as the mental depression is so great that 
nothing can divert the patient's mind. A trip can 
be recommended only when diversions are able to 
make the patient temporarily forget himself; other- 
wise, all the joys of Europe and Asia will be unable 
to counterbalance the unhappiness in his own soul. 



320 



XIV 

FINAL CONCLUSIONS 

THE OBJECT OF MAN'S LIFE, SELF-PERFECTION: 

Shown as a biological truth and a good working ideal. 



327 



XIV 

FINAL CONCLUSIONS 

It is but natural for us to arrange our life in a 
manner which fits us best to attain the aims of our 
ambition. We begin by telling our children to be 
good in order to enter heaven, industrious and per- 
severing in order to win wealth and glory, strong 
in order to be first in competition, etc. When these 
ideals and our ways to attain them really serve 
the true interest of man in Jo; entity, then we have 
the right to expect that beautiful, healthy, obedient 
children should be when they attain the prime of 
life at the height of health and happiness. On the 
contrary, we find most of them around that age with 
a body which is less perfect, a soul which is more 
selfish than they were in youth, and in many regards 
disappointed and disappointing. We easily find the 
reason for such undesirable development, when we 
look at our own life in the light which the law of 
evolution has thrown on everything that exists, and 
it becomes strikingly clear that the only object of 
man's life is his own self-perfection, and that all 
our customary ideals can not meet the needs of man 
in his entity, as their aims lie to a great extent 
always somewhere outside his own person. 

When man was endowed with the double gift of 

329 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

a body possessing instinct and a mind with a certain 
amount of free will, he became entrusted with the 
carrying out of the law of evolution in and for his 
own person; for the rest of the world, nature her- 
self attends to matters. 

Selfishness, which is found in all people, represents 
the instinct of evolution and is a vice only when 
misdirected; it is the greatest stimulus for good when 
rightly directed, for we serve ourselves best by leading 
the best kind of life. 

Self-perfection as aim in life was tried in pagan 
times in the education of the child and as a mov- 
ing force for its actions, but without producing 
desired results. Since then, much has changed. We 
have learned by experience, by experiments and by 
science, a good deal about the natural needs of man 's 
body and soul. In the first place we know only 
since Christ that love for an enemy is a distinctly 
human quality. The old Greeks and Romans did 
not know sympathy with suffering, and animals are 
led by their instinct of self-preservation to take 
care only of themselves, their young, the master, 
and working or sex community. Christ was not 
meek, when, fighting a bad principle, he whipt the 
money-lenders out of the temple, and we are told 
by modern statesmen and sanitarians that the true 
meaning of His teachings really fosters our personal 
interest, as a community can enjoy peace and good 
health only when the weak and enemy is treated with 
consideration and care. Until thirty years ago the 

330 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

most well-informed parents depended, to a great ex- 
tent, on luck as to whether their children should grow 
up to be happy and healthy, or sick and miserable. 
They did not know that work, sleep, rest, and exercise 
should be taken in proper proportion ; that the different 
instincts have a perfect right to demand satisfaction ; 
or that certain foodstuffs insidiously deteriorate the 
action and health of our organs. Parents were igno- 
rant of the fact that the first four years of a child's 
life decide the man's character. Schools have begun 
only recently to add to the teaching of theoretical 
knowledge the doing of real things. Not until re- 
cent years did we have obligatory attendance at 
school and the possibility of educating each child. 
In former days there was often not enough food and 
clothing to supply all with the necessities of life; the 
relation between supply and demand then made it 
difficult for man not to act as a predatory animal. 
Under our present system of production and trans- 
portation, there exists plenty for all. There is no 
reason longer why we should continue to act like our 
primeval ancestors. In truly well-educated and bal- 
anced people everywhere the instinct of self-protec- 
tion by might is already changing into a spirit of 
self-protection by right and of cooperation, and the 
wish to be strong and able is inspired more by a 
hope of making one's self better than by an intention 
to worst others. 

We have learned, further, that with the aid of 
laws and the police we fail to prevent the indi- 

331 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

vidual from being dishonest, insolent, immoral, indo- 
lent, and faithless. In fact, we know that legal 
restrictions have not been strong enough to prevent 
conditions in society which eventually destroy in 
most people their beautiful ideals with which, rich 
and poor alike, they start out in life as boys and 
girls. The demands of religion and law, altho iden- 
tical with the best interests of us all were taken as 
commands and restrictions, and not as the main 
foundation of health and happiness. 

Nor have different forms of government very bad 
ones excepted had the influence on individuals we 
should like to believe. Altho each self-respecting 
person wants a government that he can respect, the 
truth is that in this enlightened republic of the United 
States the number of crimes is far greater than in 
the darkest parts of Eussia. In some countries of 
Europe there are seven times as many illegitimate chil- 
dren as we can count here, but we have seven times 
as many divorces as are granted in Europe. This is 
not a showing in our favor; many of the divorces 
are among the better educated classes, who have 
greater moral responsibility than the poor servant 
and the working-girls who give birth in Europe to 
most of the illegitimate children. In Germany a truly 
excellent, paternal, and imperial government is op- 
posed by approximately the same number of citizens 
(in the socialist vote) as in our country oppose the 
old political parties who are not' paternalistic. In 
both countries opponents complain of not having 

332 



THEIR CAEE AND CURE 

received the proper share of happiness. We find 
under the same government, in the same city, that 
some children are well cared for and some homes 
made pleasant and comfortable from exactly the 
same wages on which others under identical condi- 
tions are unable to feed, clothe, and house themselves 
properly. 

To help people to be as most of us wish we were 
or had been, there is absolutely no other way left 
than to take hold of the individual when he starts out 
in life. If we analyze the unhappy, unsuccessful, bad, 
sick man, we will find, in ninety-nine out of a hundred 
cases, well-defined causes lying in the individual him- 
self, his manner of living and thinking, his wrong 
ideals and his self-management ; the causes are seldom 
the general conditions. 

The commonwealth must spend its money in the 
first place for the making of a bodily and mentally 
healthy individual. This should be the aim of all 
legislation and all public institutions. 

Incompetent teachers have given to the public too 
low san estimate of the reach of education. Our 
present teachers are well-meaning, lovable people 
and deserve the highest praise for having done their 
best. Lacking in proper understanding of the true 
needs of man, often helplessly bound to an abnormal 
life, overstrained in proportion to their strength, and 
underpaid, many do not possess the personality to 
inspire pupils with enthusiasm for strength, beauty, 
and right ideals. 

333 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

As a subconscious reaction against their insufficiency, 
we see everywhere our best men and women eager to 
speak to the young in lectures and print. We possess 
thousands of born teachers among bankers, merchants, 
lawyers, physicians, and last, and not least, among 
clergymen. Many men of this stamp are at present 
misplaced and do not render in their work the service 
they could if they were following their true vocation 
as teachers. The like of such men will take up this 
work in the next generation, after communities have 
given them the position they deserve, socially and finan- 
cially. Teachers have an almost unlimited influence 
for good on a pupil when they can show by their 
own splendid personalities that health, efficiency, and 
happiness are identical with the noble life God in- 
tended for men and women. 

For the great mass of children ocular demonstra- 
tion is necessary. Environments and customs hold 
habits and thoughts in a firm grasp; the child 
comes under the spell of what is admired and strived 
for by the public in general. From childhood on, the 
aim becomes the acquisition of wealth, social pres- 
tige, dress, automobiles, etc., rather than a desire for 
the cultivation of the best possible body and a char- 
acter fit to enjoy for many years and to the fullest 
this lovely world. 

We receive an approximate estimate of how much 
can be done by schools and the class spirit when we 
compare the child of the poor immigrant with its 
parents ; or when we see many young men who refuse 

334 



THEIR CARE AND CURE 

to take liquor, altho they were brought up in families 
where beer and wine were drunk as an inherited cus- 
tom; or when we see how the American boy treats 
women more respectfully than did his European fore- 
father; when we see how they want different plays, 
different food, dress, and occupations. 

Improvement in the teaching-force is likely to come 
sooner than seems probable to those who do not realize 
that in stores, banks, the professions, and, in fact, 
almost everywhere, is felt the need of men who learn 
to do things well. As a reaction, teachers will be 
demanded for our schools who can equip young peo- 
ple with a foundation of personal honesty, logical 
thinking, concentration, and good habits, on which 
the superstructure of efficient specialization can be 
readily and safely built. With this foundation a 
man soon becomes proficient in almost any kind of 
work. At present we find general complaint about 
failures occasioned by an insufficient foundation, 
which is erroneously accounted for by lack of de- 
tailed learning, instead of by the real cause which 
is want of proper development of mind and body 
in general. This alone is responsible when we find 
a child, after eight years in school, is unable to 
write properly and to do understandingly what it 
is told to do. School buildings and equipments are far 
better than they were thirty years ago. The men and 
women who give them life are next in line for 
improvement. 

The final conclusions of this book in regard to the 

335 



THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS 

cause and remedy for most of our present-day bodily 
and mental ailments are: 

1. People do not know enough about their bodies 
and minds and their needs. Many nice, intelligent men 
and women have a distinct aversion to learning any- 
thing about these subjects. This is not sensible, as 
there is nothing more wonderful, delightfully interest- 
ing, reassuring, and important to know, and vitally in 
need of understanding care, than one's own body and 
mind. 

2. The ideals of religion, of patriotism, of strife 
honestly to acquire wealth and social position, do not 
seem to meet, as results show, the needs of the average 
man in his entity; he especially does not become im- 
prest with the interdependence at all times of the body, 
the mind, and society at large. "The object of 
man's life is self-perfection" is a biological truth 
and a law, covering all the needs of the individual 
and of society. 

3. In our present generation, and as long as we shall 
have immigration from countries not in a high state 
of civilization, we can not rely safely upon the family. 
The child must be taught early in school what is truly 
best for its own interest, before it has time and oppor- 
tunity to acquire wrong ideals and habits that lead to 
disappointment, sickness, and failure. At present we 
must consider the school as the place from which the 
welfare of the individual and of the community can be 
best protected. 



336 



to 
IN 

CO 
LO 

to 



a 



0) 

to 

01 

(j 

.4 

w o 
o 

H H 

0) rQ 



H 



H 

a 



University of Toronto 
Library 



DO NOT 

REMOVE 

THE 

CARD 

FROM 

THIS 

POCKET 




