


A BOOK OF GOOD 



BIMMIRS 



• • • * # 

FOICMYFICIEND 




BY • FANNY • nERRITT • FAKnER 





Cornell University 
Library 



The original of tiiis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924085804692 



A BOOK OF GOOD 
DINNERS 

FOR MY FRIEND 

Or, " NVnat to Have for Dinner 
By Fannie Merritt Farmer 




Putlislied in Ne-w Yo rt City \> y 
Dodge PuDlisning Company 
5 5 Fifth Avenue 



CONTENTS. 
PAET I. 

PAGES 

Family Dinners, 24 Menus 3 — 100 

PAET II. 

Dinners for Occasions: 

Thanksgiving, 2 Menus 101 — 114 

Christmas, 2 Menus 115 — 138 

Lent, 2 Menus 129—139 

Easter, 2 Menus 140 — 150 

Warm Weather, 3 Menus 151—162 

Emergency, 2 Menus 163 — 169 

PART III. 

Company and Formal Dinners: 

Company, 10 Menus 170 — 230 

Formal, 4 Menus 231—259 



TABLE OF MEASUEES AND WEIGHTS. 



2 cups butter 


= 


] pound. 


4 cups flour 


r= 


1 pound. 


2 cups granulated sugar 


r= 


1 pound. 


2f cups powdered sugar 


::^ 


1 pound. 


2§ cups brown sugar 


= 


1 pound. 


1| cups rice 


= 


1 pound. 


4^ cups coffee 


= 


1 pound. 


3 cups finely chopped meat 


= 


1 pound. 


9 large eggs 


= 


1 pound. 


1 square Baker's Chocolate 


= 


1 ounce. 


■J cup chopped nuts 


= 


1 ounce. 


3 teaspoons 


= 


1 tablespo( 


16 tablespoons 


= 


1 cup. 


2 tablespoons butter 


= 


1 ounce. 


4 tablespoons flour 


=: 


1 ounce. 



Note. — Remember that in the following receipts, all measure- 
ments are made level. Measuring cups (holding one half pint) 
divided into thirds or quarters are used; also tea and table 
measuring spoons, 



WHAT TO HAVE FOR DINNER. 



PART I. 
FAMILY DINNERS. 



MENU NO. I. 

After much meditation and experience, I have di- 
vined that it takes as much sense and refinement and 
talent to cook a dinner, wash and wipe a dish, make a 
ied and dust a room, as goes to the writing of a novel, 
or shining in high society. — Rose Teeky Cooke. 

Tomato Soup. 

Ceoutons. 

Rib Roast of Beef, Beown Geavt. 

Roasted Potatoes. Dried Lima Beans. 

Macedoine Salad. 

Apple Chaelotte, 

(3) 



4 What to Have for Dinner. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

1 can tomatoes 2 slices onion 

2 cups white stock or water 1 teaspoon sugar 
10 peppercorns 1 teaspoon salt 
i bay leaf ^ teaspoon soda 

3 cloves 3 tablespoons butter 

2 tablespoons flour 

Cook first six ingredients fifteen minutes, force 
through a strainer and add sugar, salt and soda. Melt 
butter, add flour and cook one minute; then add one- 
third the hot soup, and when well thickened and smooth, 
add remaining soup. Serve with Croutons. 

CROIJTONS. 

Cut stale bread in one-third inch slices, remove crusts, 
and cut slices in one-third inch cubes. Put in dripping 
pan and bake until delicately browned, stirring fre- 
quently that cubes may brown evenly. 

EIB EOAST OF BEEF. 

Wipe a rib roast, place on rack in dripping pan, 
sprinkle with salt and dredge meat and bottom of pan 
with flour. Place in a hot oven, and when slightly 
browned, reduce heat and baste with fat in pan, con- 
tinuing the basting every fifteen minutes during the 
cooking. A five-pound rib roast, when cooked rare, re- 
quires one hour and five minutes, while a ten-pound 
roast requires one and one-half hours. 

BROWN GRAVY. 

Remove fat from pan, leaving three tablespoons. Add 
three tablespoons flour and stir until well browned. 



Family Dinners. 5 

Pour on, gradually, while stirring constantly, one and 
one-half cups boiling water. Bring to boiling point, 
season with salt and pepper, then strain. 

EOAST POTATOES. 

Wash and pare potatoes, and parboil twelve minutes in 
boiling, salted water. Drain and place on rack in pan, 
where meat is roasting, and bake until soft. Baste with 
fat in pao, when basting meat. 

DKIED LIMA BEAN'S. 

li cups dried Lima beans 1 tablespoon butter 
f cup cream Salt 

Pepper 

Soak beans over-night, in cold water. Drain, add cold 
water to cover and bring slowly to boiling point. Let 
simmer until tender, drain, add cream, butter, salt and 
pepper. 

MACEDOINE SALAD. 

1 cup, each, cold cooked carrots and tumij)s, cut in 

strips 
1 cup cold cooked potatoes, cut in balls 

1 cup cold cooked string beans 

2 tablespoons parsley, finely chopped 

Marinate the vegetables separately with French Dress- 
ing. Arrange in sections on a dish, having the base of 
shredded lettuce, garnish with lettuce and sprinkle 
chopped parsley over all. 

To Shred Lettuce. 
Eemove leaves from stalk, wash, drain, and cut in 
narrow strips, using scissors. 



6 What to Have for Dinner. 

FEBNCH DEBSSING. 

I teaspoon salt 3 drops onion juice 

i teaspoon pepper 4 tablespoons olive oil 

2 tablespoons vinegar 

Mix ingredients in order given and stir until well 
blended. 

APPLE CHAELOTTB. 

1^ cups apple sauce Butter 

4 slices stale bread i cup sugar 

Put apple sauce in buttered, shallow, baking dish. 
Eemove crusts from bread, butter generously, cut in tri- 
angles and arrange on top of sauce as closely as possible. 
Sprinkle with sugar, and bake in a moderate oven until 
bread is browned. Serve with thin cream. 



Family Dinners. 



MENU NO. II. 

"The art of cooking^ when not allied with a degener- 
ate taste or with gluttony, is one of the criteria of a peo- 
ple's civilization/' 

Corn Mock Bisque. 

Boast Chicken with Bread Stuffing, 

GiBLET Gravy. 

Boiled Eice. Sauted Egg Plant. 

Stuffed Green Peppers. 

Prune Pudding. Custard Sauce. 

Cafe Noie. 



8 What to Have for Dinner. 

COEN MOCK BISQUE SOUP. 

1 can com ^ can tomatoes 

1 quart milk ^ teaspoon soda 

1 slice onion i cup butter 

3 tablespoons flour 2 teaspoons salt 

^ cup cold water -J teaspoon pepper 

^ teaspoon paprika 

Scald milk with corn and onion. Mix flour with cold 
water to form a smooth paste, and add to scalded milk ; 
then cook twenty minutes, stirring constantly at first, 
and rub through a sieve. Cook tomatoes ten minutes, 
add soda, and rub through a sieve. Combine mixtures 
and strain into tureen in which is butter in small pieces, 
and seasonings. 

EOAST CHICKEN. 

Dress, clean, stuff and truss a four-pound chicken. 
Eub entire surface with salt and spread breast and legs 
with soft butter, using four tablespoons. Place on back 
on rack in dripping pan and dredge bird and bottom of 
pan generously with flour. 

Place in a hot oven and when flour is well browned, 
reduce heat and baste. Turn, having breast side down, 
and baste every ten minutes during the remainder of 
the cooking, using one-fourth cup butter, melted in 
three-fourths cup boiling water, adding more water, if 
necessary, to prevent burning. A four-pound chicken 
requires from one and one-half to one and three-fourths 
hours. If a chicken is roasted breast down, the breast 
meat is more juicy and of finer flavor than it otherwise 
would be. 



Family Dinners. 9 

STUFFING. 

1^ cups soft bread crumbs Poultry seasoning 
^ cup boiling water Salt 

i cup butter Pepper 

Melt butter in water and add to bread crumbs, then 
add seasonings to taste. If stuffing is to be served cold 
add one beaten egg, which makes it easier to slice. 

GIBLET GRAVY. 

Wash heart, liver, gizzard, neck and tips of wings of 
chicken. Put in sauce pan and add three cups cold 
water. Bring slowly to boiling point and let simmer un- 
til meat is tender. Eemove heart, liver and gizzard, and 
chop finely. Pour off liquid in pan in which chicken 
has been roasted. Fr'om liquid skim off three table- 
spoons fat; return to roasting pan and brown with three 
tablespoons flour. Pour on gradually, while stirring con- 
stantly, one and one-half cups stock in which giblets 
(heart, liver and gizzard) were cooked. Season with 
salt and pepper, strain, and add chopped giblets. 

BOILED EICE. 

Wash and pick over one cup rice. Put four quarts 
water in a kettle with two tablespoons salt and bring 
to boiling point. Add rice, a little at a time, so as not 
to check boiling of water. Boil twenty-five minutes, or 
until soft. Drain in coarse strainer and ^our over one 
quart hot water. Place strainer over a kettle containing 
a little hot water, place on back of range, and let steam 
until each kernel is dry. 



lo What to Have for Dinner. 

SAUTfiD EGG PLANT. 

Pare an egg plant, cut in one-fourth inch slices, and 
sprinkle with salt. Pile slices and put a weight on top, 
allowing it to remain one-half hour, thus expressing 
juice. Dip each slice in flour, and saute in butter until 
crisp and brown. 

STUFFED GEEEN PEPPEKS. 

6 mushrooms finely chopped 6 green peppers 
1 cup raw veal, finely chopped 2 tablespoons butter 
f cup soft bread crumbs ^ onion finely chopped 

Salt 3 tomatoes, chopped 

Cook peppers in boiling water three minutes. Cut a 
slice from stem end of each pepper, and remove seeds. 
Cook onion and mushrooms in butter five minutes. Add 
veal and tomatoes and cook five minutes. Season highly 
with salt and fill pepper cases with mixture. Put in a 
buttered baking pan, and bake thirty minutes in a hot 
oven, adding enough white stock to prevent peppers 
from burning. 

PRUNE PUDDING. 

f lb. prunes J cup sugar 

Whites 4 eggs 

Wash and pick over prunes. Put in a sauce pan, 
cover with cold water, and soak two hours. Cook in 
same water until soft, when water should be nearly evap- 
orated. Eemove stones and cut prunes in small pieces; 
then sprinkle with the sugar. Beat whites of eggs until 
stiff, and add prunes, gradually. Pour into a slightly 



Family Dinners. ' ' 

buttered pudding dish, and bake in a moderate oveu 
twenty-five minutes. Chill and serve with Custard 
Sauce or whipped cream, sweetened and flavored. 

CUSTAED SAUCE. 

1^ cups scalded milk 3 tablespoons sugar 

Yolks 3 eggs Few grains salt 

^ teaspoon vanilla 

Beat egg yolks slightly, add sugar and salt; then add 
hot milk, gradually, while stirring constantly. Cook 
in double boiler until mixture thickens, stirring con- 
stantly at first and afterwards occasionally. Strain, 
chill and flavor. 

CAFfiNOIE (BOILED). 

1 cup ground coffee | egg 

^ cup cold water 3 cups boiling water 

Wash an egg and break shell and all into a cup and 
beat slightly. Mix coffee with one-half the egg and one- 
half the cold water. Turn into a granite ware coffee pot, 
(which has been previously scalded with boiling water,) 
add boiling water, stuff spout of coffee pot with soft pa- 
per, place pot on front of range, and let boil three min- 
utes. Add remaining cold water and let stand on back 
of range, where coffee will not boil, for ten minutes. 
Serve in after-dinner coffee cups with cut sugar. 



12 What to Have for Dinner. 



MENU NO. III. 

"The seat of courage is the stomach/' 

Black Bean Soup. 

SAuiiED Fillets of Lamb, Browned Sweet Potatoes, 

Stewed Celery ik White Sauce. 

Baked Squash. 

Dressed Lettuce. Cheese SandwichbSi 

Boston Pudding with Cream. 



Family Dinners. 13 

BLACK BEAN SOUP. 



2 cups black beans 


Bit of bay leaf 


3 quarts cold water 


Sprig of parsley 


3 cloves 


•1^ tablespoons butter 


4 peppercorns 


IJ tablespoons flour 


3 stalks celery 


^ tablespoon salt 


1 onion, sliced 


Few grains cayenne 


1 slice carrot 


1 lemon, cut in thin 


1 slice turnip 


slices ( 



1 hard boiled egg, cut in thin slices 

Soak beans, over-night, in cold water to cover. Drain, 
add cold water, bring to boiling point and let simmer 
until soft; then force through a puree strainer. Cook 
seasoning in butter five minutes, add flour and cook one 
minute, then add to soup with salt and cayenne. Put 
sliced lemon and egg in tureen and strain over the hot 
soup. 

SAUTSlD FILLETS OF LAMB. 

Order two pounds lamb cut from fore quarter. Re- 
move bones, and cut meat in strips one inch in thickness ; 
then flatten with a cleaver to three-fourths inch in thick- 
ness. Arrange on a platter and pour over a marinade 
made by mixing three tablespoons olive oil, three table- 
spoons vinegar, two-thirds teaspoon salt, one-half onion 
finely chopped, and one tablespoon parsley finely 
chopped. Cover and let stand, over-night, or for several 
hours. Remove pieces of vegetables from fillets and 
saute in a hot frying pan, using as little butter as 
possible. 

BROWNED SWEET POTATOES. 

Cut boiled sweet potatoes into slices one-fourth inch 
thick, arrange in a shallow baking pan, spread with 



14 What to Have for Dinner. 

softened butter, sprinkle lightly with salt and paprika 
and bake in a hot oven until well browned. 



STEWED CELEEY. 

Wash, scrape and cut celery in one-inch pieces; there 
should be two cups. Cook in boiling salted water until 
tender, drain and add one cup White Sauce. 

WHITE SAUCE. 

2 tablespoons butter 1 cup scalded milk 

2^ tablespoons flour -J teaspoon pepper 

I teaspoon salt 

Put butter in sauce pan and stir until melted and 
bubbling, add the flour and seasonings and cook one 
minute. Pour on gradually, while stirring constantly, 
the hot milk. Beat until smooth and glossy, using a 
wire whisk. 

BAKED SQUASH. 

Cut squash in pieces, remove seeds and stringy por- 
tions, put in dripping pan and bake until soft. Five 
minutes before squash is done, sprinkle with salt, and 
grated soft, mild cheese. Serve in the shells. 

DRESSED LETTUCE. 

Eemove leaves from stalks, discarding outside wilted 
ones. Wash in very cold water, drain, and dry on a 
towel. Arrange in as nearly the original shape as pos- 
sible and serve with 



Family Dinners. 15 

FRENCH DEESSING. 

i teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons vinegar 

J teaspoon pepper 4 tablespoons olive oil 

Few drops onion juice 

Mix ingredients and stir or shake nntil well blended. 

CHEESE SANDWICHES. 

Cut stale bread in very thin slices and spread one- 
half with the following mixture: 

Grate mild cheese, and rub to a paste with soft but- 
ter, using one-fourth as much butter as cheese. Season 
highly with salt and cayenne. Cover with remaining 
slices of bread, and cut in fancy shapes. 

BOSTON PUDDING. 

5 slices entire wheat bread, cut f inch thick 

3 cups milk ^ cup molasses 

Butter 

Eemove the crust from bread, and butter slices gen- 
erously. Arrange in shallow buttered pudding dish 
and pour over three-fourths of the milk mixed with 
molasses. Bake three hours in a very slow oven, stirring 
occasionally and adding remaining milk after first hour 
of cooking. Serve with thin cream. 



i6 What to Have for Dinner. 



MENU NO. IV. 

"To he equal, physically and mentally to our day's 
work, depends upon the food we eat." 

Onion Soup. 

Fried Smelts, Sauce Taetake. French Eolls. 

Broiled Porterhouse Beef Steak, 

MaItre d'H6tel Butter. 

Potato Strips. Creamed Turnips. 

Steamed Chocolate Pudding, Sterling Sauce. 



Family Dinners. 17 

ONION SOUP. 

13 onions (small) 1 teaspoonful salt 

i cup butter Few grains pepper 

2i tablespoons flour 2 egg yolks 

1 quart milk 1 cup cream 

Eemove skin from onions and cut in thin slices; add 
butter and cook two minutes. Set on back of range, 
cover tightly, and let simmer until soft, but not brown. 

Sprinkle with flour, stir until well mixed, then cook 
over flre three minutes, stirring constantly. Add to 
milk and cook in double boiler one-half hour. Eub 
through a sieve and add seasonings. Beat egg yolks 
slightly and add cream gradually, then add to soup 
just before serving. i 

FKIED SMELTS. 

Clean smelts, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and 
skewer into fancy tshapes. Dip in crumbs, egg, and 
crumbs, and fry in deep fat. Drain and arrange on a 
folded napkin, garnish with parsley and lemon and 
serve with Sauce Tartare. 

SAUCE TAETAEE. 

1 teaspoon mustard Yolks 3 eggs 

1 teaspoon salt 1 cup olive oil 

Few grains cayenne 1 tablespoon vinegar 

J tablespoon, each, olives, -J teaspoonful onio^ juice 

pickles and parsley, finely 1 tablespoon capers, finely 

chopped chopped 

f tablespoon lemon juice 

Mix mustard, salt and cayenne, add yolks of eggs un- 
beaten and stir until well mixed. Add oil gradually 



i8 What to Have for Dinner. 

at first, drop by drop, beating constantly, and as mix- 
ture thickens thin -with vinegar, and after vinegar is 
used, lemon juice. Chill thoroughly and, just before 
serving, add remaining ingredients. 

Sauce Tartare may be piled in lemon shells or cu- 
cumber cups or boats, for individual service. 

FRENCH EOLLS. 

1 cup milk 2 tablespoons sugar 

1 yeast cake, dissolved in 1 teaspoon salt 
i cup lukewarm water 1 egg 
Flour Yolk 1 egg 

4 tablespoons melted butter 

Scald milk; when lukewarm, add dissolved yeast cake 
and one and one-half cups of flour; beat well, cover 
and let rise until light. Add sugar, salt, eggs well 
beaten, butter and enough more flour to knead; knead, 
let rise again, shape in small biscuits, place in rows 
on a board and cover with a cloth and pan. Let rise 
until light, then roll on a board (where there is no 
flour) using .the hands until six inches in length. Place 
rolls one and one-half inches apart on a buttered sheet 
and bake twelve to fifteen minutes in a hot oven, re- 
ducing the heat after the first five minutes. 

BROILED PORTERHOUSE BEEF STEAK 

Wipe a Porterhouse steak with a cloth wrung out of 
cold water and trim off superfluous fat. Grease a wire 
broiler and lock meat in broiler, having fat edge next 
to handle. Broil over a clear fire, turning every fifteen 
seconds during the first two minutes of the cooking 
(to prevent the escape of juices) and afterwards occa- 



Family Dinners. 19 

sionally. Steaks cut one inch thick wili require five 
minutes, if liked rare; six minutes, if liked well done. 
Remove to hot serving dish and spread with 

MAITRE D'HOTEL BUTTER. 

i cup butter -J teaspoon pepper 

^ teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

1 tablespoon finely chopped parsley 

Put butter in a small bowl, and with a wooden spoon 
work until creamy. Add salt, pepper, parsley an<d 
lemon juice very slowly. 

POTATO STRIPS. 

Wash, pare and cut ' potatoes in one-eighth inch 
slices. Cut slices in one-eighth inch strips. Soak one 
hour in cold water. Take from water, drain, dry be- 
tween towels, and fry in deep fat. Drain on brown 
paper and sprinkle with salt. 

CREAMED TURNIPS. 

Wash, pare and cut turnips in one-half inch cubes; 
there should be three cups. Cook in boiling water 
twenty-five minutes or until soft, adding salt during the 
last ten minutes of the cooking. Drain and add one 
Gup White Sauce (see p. 14, under Family Dinners, 
Menu No. III.). 

STEAMED CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

i cup of butter 4J teaspoons baking powder 

•J cup sugar J teaspoon salt 

1 egg 1 cup milk , 

2J cups flour 2 squares chocolate 

Cream butter and add sugar, gradually, while beat- 



20 What to Have for Dinner. 

ing constantly; then add egg well beaten. Mix and 
sift dry ingredients and add to first mixture alternately 
with milk. Add chocolate melted, beat thoroughly, turn 
into a buttered mould, cover, and steam two hours. 

STEELING SAUCE. 

i cup butter -J teaspoon lemon extract 

1 cup powdered sugar § teaspoon vanilla 

2 tablespoons cream or milk 

Cream the butter, add sugar gradually, and milk and 
flavoring, drop by drop, to prevent a separation. 



Family Dinners. 2i 



MENTJ NO. V. 

"The palate is the janitor: unless he be reconciled, the 
most nutritioiis food will find no welcome." 

Fried Scallops, Cole Slaw a la Toukaine. 

Pak Beoiled Mutton Chops, Sauce Soubise. 

Pakisiah Potatoes. Creamed Carrots. 

Princess Pudding. 

Assorted Nuts. Eaisins. 



22 What to Have for Dinner. 

PRIED SCALLOPS. 

Put one quart scallops in strainer, pour over two cups 
cold water and drain. Parboil in their own liquor, and 
dry between towels. Sprinkle with salt and pepper and 
dip in fine bread crumbs, egg slightly beaten, and di- 
luted with one tablespoon milk, then in crumbs again. 
Fry two minutes in deep fat, until well browned, and 
drain on brown paper. 

COLE SLAW A LA TOURAINE. 

Select a small heavy white cabbage, take ofE outside 
leaves, and cut cabbage in quarters. Slice one-half as 
thinly as possible, using a sharp knife. Soak in cold 
or iced water until crisp, drain, and dry between towels. 
Arrange on a bed of water cress and cover with one small 
onion thinly sliced and separated into rings. Pour over 
a French Dressing, to which a few drops onion juice 
are added, and garnish with rings of red and green pep- 
pers. 

PAN BROILED MUTTON CHOPS, SAUCE 
SOUBISE. 

Pan broil mutton chops and serve with Sauce Soubise. 

SAUCE SOUBISE. - 

Peel and slice twelve small mild onions and cook in 
boiling salted water until very soft. Drain and press 
out all water that is possible, then rub through a sieve; 
there should be one cup onion puree. Melt two table- 
spoons butter, add three tablespoons flour and pour on 
gradually, while stirring constantly, one cup milk. Sea- 
son with salt, pepper and cayenne, and add onion puree. 



Family Dinners. 23 

Pour in centre of hot chop dish, and surround with Pan 
Broiled Mutton Chops. 

PARISIAN POTATOES. 

Wash and pare eight small potatoes and soak in cold 
water, one-half hour. Parboil in boiling salted water to 
cover, fifteen minutes. Drain and place in dripping 
pan, and bake until soft, basting three times during the 
cooking with one-third cup of melted butter. 

CEEAMED CARROTS. 

Wash and scrape carrots and cut in one-third cubes; 
there should be two cups. Cook in boiling salted water, 
drain, and add one cup White Sauce. 

WHITE SAUCE. 

2 tablespoons butter 1 cup scalded milk 

2^ tablespoons flour -J teaspoon pepper 

i teaspoon salt 

Put butter in sauce pan and stir until melted and 
bubbling, add the flour and seasonings and cook one 
minute. Pour on gradually, while stirring constantly, 
the hot milk. Beat until smooth and glossy, using a wire 
whisk. 

PRIKCESS PUDDING. 

Yolks 3 eggs f tablespoon granulated gel- 
i cup sugar atine dissolved in 

Grated rind -J lemon 3 tablespoons boiling water 

2 tablespoons lemon juice Whites 3 eggs 

Beat yolks of eggs until thick and lemon-colored. 



24 What to Have for Dinner. 

and add sugar gradually, while beating constantly ; then 
add grated rind of lemon, lemon juice and dissolved gela- 
tine. As soon as mixture begins to thicken, cut and fold 
in whites of eggs beaten until stiff. Mould, chill and 
serve with whipped cream. 



Family Dinners. 25 



MENU NO. VI. 

The chief pleasure in eating does not consist in costly 
seasoning or exquisite flavor^ but in yourself. Do you 
seek sauce by sweating f — Horace. 

Caeeot Soup. Braised Beef. 

Boiled Potatoes with Butter and Parsley. 

Fried Parsnips. Onion Souffl^ 

Spiced Apples 1 la Lyman, 

Caf:6 Noir. 



26 What to Have for Dinner. 

CAEEOT SOUP. 

3 cups carrot, cut in slices 1 quart chicken stock 

■J cup onion, cut in slices 2 cups milk 

3 tablespoons butter 1| teaspoons salt 

3 tablespoons flour Few grains cayenne 

Cook vegetables in butter, five minutes; then add 
flour and cook two minutes. Add to stock and cook un- 
til carrots are soft. Rub through a sieve ; add milk and 
seasonings. 

BRAISED BEEF. 

Wipe three pounds of beef cut from round, sprinkle 
with salt, and dredge with flour. Cut a one-inch cube 
of fat salt pork in small pieces. Put in an iron frying 
pan and try out. Add beef, and turn frequently until 
surface is well browned. Put in a braising pan and 
add three cups canned tomatoes, one-fourth cup, each, 
carrots, turnips, onion, and celery, cut in small pieces, 
three sprigs parsley, two cloves, and ten peppercorns. 
Cover tightly and cook in a slow oven four hours. Re- 
move to hot serving dish. Rub tomatoes through a sieve 
and thicken with one tablespoon flour mixed with cold 
water to form a thin paste. Pour sauce around meat. 

BOILED POTATOES WITH BUTTER AND 
PARSLEY. 

i 

Wash, pare and soak eight medium-sized potatoes in 
cold water to cover for one-half howc. 

Cook in boiling snlted water until soft. Drain and re- 
turn to hot sauce pan in which they were cooked. Pour 
over one-third cup melted butter, and one tablespoon 



Family Dinners. 27 

finely chopped parsley. Let stand on back of range until 
serving time. 

FEIED PAESNIPS. 

Wash parsnips, using a small brush to remove all 
particles of dirt. Cook in boiling salted water, one hour 
or until soft; drain, cover with cold water, again 
drain, and rub off skins. Cut lengthwise in slices one- 
fourth inch thick. Sprinkle with salt, dredge with flour, 
and saute in butter until brown. 

ONIOF SOTJFFLfi. 

Cook onions in boiling salted water until soft, drain, 
and force through a sieve; there should be one and one- 
fourth cups onion pulp. Melt four tablespoons butter, 
add four tablespoons flour, and pour on gradually one- 
third cup water in which onions have been cooked, and 
one-third cup cream; then add onion pulp. Season 
with salt and pepper. Beat yolks of three eggs until 
thick and lemon colored, and add to first mixture. Cut 
and fold in whites of egg beaten until stiff and dry. 
Turn into a buttered baking dish, and bake twenty-five 
minutes in a moderate oven. Serve at once. 

SPICED APPLE A LA LYMAN. 

6 large apples 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

f cup sugar ^ teaspoon salt 

i cup water 

Wipe, core and pare apples and arrange in baking 
dish. Mix sugar, cinnamon and salt, and fill cavities. 
Add water and bake until apples are soft, basting often 
with syrup in dish. Remove from oven, cool slightly and 



28 What to Have for Dinner. 

pile meringue on top of each apple. Return to oven and 
bake eight minutes. Chill and serve with sugar and 
cream. 

MBRINGUB. 

Whites 2 eggs 4' tablespoons powdered sugar 

■J teaspoon vanilla 

Beat whites of eggs until stiff, and add sugar, gradu- 
ally, continuing the beating; then add vanilla. 

CAPfiNOIR (FILTERED). 

Scald coffee pot with freshly boiled water. Put one- 
half Clip finely ground coffee into the filter and pour 
through three cups freshly boiled water, adding one cup 
at a time. If preferred stronger, refilter. By some peo- 
ple a few grains of salt are considered an improvement. 

Serve in after-dinner coffee cups with cut sugar. 



Family Dinners. 29 



MENU NO. VII. 

"We grow like what we eat. Bad food depresses; 
good food exalts us like an inspiration." 

Julienne Soup. 

Boiled Fowl, Celert Sauce. 

EicED Potatoes 1 la Colbuhg. 

Spinach, Swedish Style. Tomato Jelly Salad. 

Health Food Bread Sandwiches. 

Chocolate Ice Cream with Zwieback. 



30 What to Have for Dinner. 

JULIENNE SOUP. 

1^ quarts brown soup s.oek ^ cup string beans . 
* eup, each, carrot and tur-2 tablespoons canned green 
nip peas 

Cut carrot, turnip and string beans into very thin 
strips, one inch long, and cook in boiling salted water 
until soft. Add to brown stock with peas. 

BEOWN SOUP STOCK. 

5 lbs. shin of beef 4 cloves 

2-| quarts cold water -J bay leaf / 

J cup, each, carrot, turnip, 1 sprig thyme 
celery and onion, cut in 1 sprig marjoram 
small pieces 2 sprigs parsley 

10 peppercorns 1 tablespoon salt 

Wipe beef and cut in one-half inch cubes. Brown one- 
fourth of meat in a hot frying pan in marrow from mar- 
row bone. Add cold water to remaining meat and bone 
and let stand one-half hour, then add browned meat. 
Bring slowly to boiling point, cover, and let simmer 
seven hours. Add vegetables and seasonings, and let 
simmer one hour. Strain and cool. Eemove fat and 
clear before serving. 

BOILED FOWL. 

Dress, clean and truss a four-pound fowl. Place on a 
trivet in kettle, half surround with boiling water and add 
one sliced onion, three slices carrot, two stalks celery, 
one sprig parsley, and one-half teaspoon peppercorns. 
Bring quickly to boiling point, then let simmer until 



Family Dinners. 31 

tender, turning occasionally, adding one-half tablespoon 
salt, the last hour of cooking. Eemove to hot serving 
dish, garnish with parsley and serve with Celery Sauce. 

CELEEY SAUCE. 

Wash and scrape celery and cut in one-half inch 
pieces ; there should be one and one-half cups. Cook in 
boiling salted water until soft, drain and add to one and 
one-half cups White Sauce made by melting three table- 
spoons butter, adding two and one-fourth tablespoons 
flour mixed with one-half teaspoon salt and a few grains 
pepper, and pouring on, gradually, while stirring con- 
stantly, one and one-half cups scalded milk. One-half 
milk and one-half chicken stock may be used in place of 
all milk in making this sauce. 

EICED POTATOES A LA COLBUEG. 

Mash eight hot boiled potatoes and season with one- 
fourth cup butter, one-half teaspoon salt, and one-eighth 
teaspoon paprika. Force through a potato ricer and pile 
lightly on a hot vegetable dish. 

SPINACH, SWEDISH STYLE. 

Wash one-half peck spinach and cook in an uncovered 
vessel in a large quantity of boiling salted water to which 
is added one-third teaspoon soda, and one-half teaspoon 
sugar. Drain, chop, and rub through a sieve. Melt two 
tablespoons butter, add spinach and cook three minutes ; 
then add one tablespoon flour and cook two minutes. 
Add one-half cup heavy cream and serve garnished with 
fried bread cut in triangles and yolks and whites of hard 
boiled eggs. 



32 What to Have for Dinner. 

TOMATO JELLY SALAD. 

2 cups tomatocB li tablespoons granulated 
1 slice onion gelatine 

i bay leaf i cup cold water 

3 cloves 1 teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon sugar ^ teaspoon pepper 

Mix first five ingredients, bring to boiling point, and 
let boil fifteen minutes ; then rub through a sieve. Add 
gelatine dissolved in cold water, and salt and pepper. 
Pour into individual moulds and chill. Serve on lettuce 
leaves and garnish with 

HORSBEADISH SAUCE. 

4 tablespoons grated horse- -J teaspoon salt 
radish root Few grains cayenne 

1^ tablespoons vinegar -J cup heavy cream 

Mix first four ingredients, and add cream beaten until 
stiff. 

HEALTH FOOD BREAD SANDWICHES. 

Cut Health Food Bread with Dates twenty-four hours 
old, in as thin slices as possible, and remove crusts. 
Spread one-half the pieces sparingly with butter, and 
cover with remaining pieces. Cut in finger-shaped 
pieces, and arrange on a plate covered with a doiley. 

HEALTH FOOD BREAD WITH DATES. 

1 cup warm wheat mush ^ yeast cake 

2 tablespoons sugar ^ cup lukewarm water 

i teaspoon salt 1 cup dates, stoned and cut 

1 tablespoon butter in pieces 

Flour 

Mix first four ingredients and add yeast cake dissolved 



Family Dinners. 33 

in lukewarm water and flour to knead. Cover and let 
rise until mixture has doubled its bulk. Cut down, add 
dates, and shape in a loaf. Put in buttered bread pan, 
let rise, and bake fifty minutes in a moderate oven. 

CHOCOLATE ICE CflEAM WITH ZWIEBACK. 

2 cups scalded milk 2 squares chocolate 

1^ cups sugar 1 tablespoon vanilla 

1 tablespoon flour 1 cup heavy cream 

2 eggs 3 cups Zwieback, dried and 
i teaspoon salt broken in small pieces 

3 cups thin cream 

Mix sugar, flour and salt, add eggs slightly beaten and 
milk gradually; cook over hot water until a coating is 
formed on the spoon, stirring constantly at first, after- 
wards occasionally. Melt chocolate, dilute with hot mix- 
ture, then add to remaining mixture. Cool, add thin 
cream and vanilla; strain and freeze. Just before serv- 
ing, add heavy cream beaten until stiff, and Zwieback. 



34 What to Have for Dinner. 



MENU NO. VIII. 

Animals feed; man eats; the intelligent man alone 
knows how to eat. — Beillat Savaein. 

Onion Soup. 

Beaised Leg op Mutton. 

Sauted Potato Balls. Mashed Tuenips. 

Cauliflowee Vol-au-Vent. 

Stuffed Tomato Salad, Boiled Deessing. 

Coffee Sponge. 



Family Dinners. 35 

OKION SOUP. 
(See p. 17, under Family Dinners, Menu No. IV.) 

BEAISBB LEG OF MUTTON. 

Wipe meat, sprinkle with salt, and lard both sides 
with thin strips of fat bacon. Saute in bacon fat until 
the entire surface is browned, turning the meat fre- 
quently. Put in deep dish and add one onion and one 
carrot, sliced, a sprig of parsley, one-half bay leaf, two 
cloves, ten peppercorns, and four cups boiling water. 
Cover closely and cook in a slow oven four hours. Ee- 
move meat to hot serving dish, strain liquor and remove 
all fat. Put two tablespoons fat in sauce pan and when 
well browned add three tablespoons flour and continue 
the browning, then pour on gradually, while stirring 
constantly, the strained stock, of which there should 
be one and one-half cups. Serve the gravy from a 
gravy boat. 

SAUTfiD POTATO BALLS. 

Prepare balls same as for Fried Potato Balls (see 
p. 242, under Formal Dinners, Menu No. II.) and par- 
boil in boiling salted water, ten minutes. Drain, put 
in an omelet pan with a small piece of butter and 
sprinkle sparingly with paprika. Cover, set on back of 
range and cook until delicately browned, shaking pan 
frequently. 

MASHED TUENIPS. 

Wash, pare and cut round white turnips in eighths. 
Cook in boiling salted water until soft, adding salt dur- 
ing the last half -hour of cooking. Drain very dry, mash 
and season with butter and salt. 



36 What to Have for Dinner. 

CAULIFLOWEE VOL-AU-VENT. 

Remove crust from a five-cent baker's loaf, cut out 
centre in such a way as to leave a box-shaped case, 
having walls one-half inch in thickness. Beat three eggs 
slightly, and add six tablespoons milk; season with salt. 
Dip bread case in mixture, and turn frequently that all 
parts may be soaked with the mixture; then drain, and 
fry in deep fat. Fill with creamed cauliflower to which 
has been added one-half cup grated cheese. Sprinkle 
with grated cheese, cover with soft bread crumbs 
browned in butter, and put in oven to reheat. 

STUFFED TOMATO SALAD. 

Peel medium-sized tomatoes. Eemove a thin slice 
from stem end of each and take out seeds and some of 
pidp. Sprinkle insides with salt, invert and let stand 
one-half hour. Fill tomatoes with apple and celery 
cut in small pieces, using an equal quantity of each, 
mixed With Boiled Dressing. Arrange on lettuce leaves 
and garnish top of each with Boiled Dressing. 

BOILED SALAD DEESSING. 

3 egg yolks 1 teaspoon salt 

4 tablespoons olive oil ^ teaspoon mustard 
i cup melted butter J teaspoon pepper 
2 tablespoons vinegar i teaspoon cayenne 
1 tablespoon lemon juice Whipped cream 

Beat yolks of eggs until thick and lemon colored, add 
oil, very slowly, butter, vinegar and lemon juice, 
while beating constantly. Cook in double boiler until 
mixture thickens and a coating is formed on the spoon. 
Add salt, mustard, pepper and cayenne which have been 



Family Dinners. 37 

mixed and sifted. Chill thoroughly, and, when ready 
to serve, mix with an equal quantity of whipped cream. 

COFFEE SPONGE. 

3 tablespoons granulated 2 cups strong boiled coffee 

gelatine 1 cup sugar 

J cup cold water Whites 3 eggs 

Soak gelatine in cold water and add to hot coffee ; then 
add sugar. Strain into pan, set in larger pan of ice 
water, cool slightly, then beat, using a wire whisk until 
quite stiff. Add whites of eggs, beaten until stiff, and 
continue the beating until mixture will hold its shape. 
Turn into a mould, first dipped in cold water. Chill 
thoroughly, remove from mould and serve with sugar 
and thin cream. 



38 What to Have for Dinner. 



MENU NO. IX. 

"If you have dined with contentment, you have dined 
as well as the Lord Mayor of London." 

Huntington Soup. Celery. 

Beef Steak 1 la Henriette. 
Mashed Sweet Potatoes. Beets, Sauce Piquantb. 
Cheese Salad. Cream Jelly. 

Caee Noir. 



Family Dinners, 39 

HUNTINGTON SOUP. 

1 can corn IJ tablespoons butter 

2 cups chicken stock IJ tablespoons flour 
2 cups canned tomatoes 1 teaspoon salt 

1 sliced onion Few grains cayenne 

Chop com, add stock, tomatoes and onions, bring 
slowly to boiling poinf and let simmer twenty minutes: 
then rub through a sieve. 

Melt butter, add flour, and pour on gradually while 
stirring constantly, hot mixture. Season with salt and 
cayenne. 

BEEF STEAK A LA HENRIETTE. 

Wipe a Porterhouse Steak, cut one and one-half 
inches thick, and broil over a clear fire, eight minutes. 
Pour one-half Sauce Henriette on a hot serving dish^ 
lay steak on sauce, cover with remaining sauce and gar- 
nish with shaved horseradish root and parsley. 

SAUCE HENEIETTE. 

■J cup butter 1 tablespoon Worcestershire 

Yolks 3 eggs Sauce 

1 tablespoon cold water ^ tablespoon parsley, finely 
i tablespoon lemon juice chopped 

2 tablespoons tomato puree ^ teaspoon salt 

Few grains cayenne 

Wash the butter, and divide in three parts. Put one 
piece in sauce pan, with yolks of eggs slightly beaten 
and mixed with water and lemon juice. Set sauce pan 
in larger pan of hot water ; place over fire and stir con- 
stantly until butter is melted. Add second piece of 



40 What to Have for Dinner. 

butter, and, when melted, third piece; then add to- 
mato puree, Worcestershire Sauce, parsley, salt and cay- 
enne. This sauce should be perfectly smooth and of the 
consistency of a rich boiled custard. 

To obtain tomato puree cook one-half can tomatoes 
until reduced to three tablespoons, taking care they do 
not burn ; then force through a puree strainer. 

MASHED SWEET POTATOES. 

Wash and pare sweet potatoes of uniform size, and 
cook in boiling salted water until soft. Force through 
a potato rieer; there should be two cups. Add one- 
fourth cup butter, one-half teaspoon salt and two table- 
spoons milk or cream. Beat with a fork until light, 
and again force through a potato ricer. 

BEETS, SAUCE PIQUANTE. 

Wash beets very thoroughly and cook in boiling salted 
water until soft. Drain, reserving the water, plunge 
into cold water when skins may be rubbed off easily; 
then cut in cubes or fancy shapes. Eeheat in the fol- 
lowing sauce: 

Melt two tablespoons butter, add two tablespoons 
flour, and pour on, gradually, while stirring constantly, 
one-half cup water in which beets were cooked. Add 
one-fourth cup thin cream or milk, one-fourth cup vine- 
gar, one teaspoon sugar, one-half teaspoon salt, and a 
few grains pepper. 

CHEESE SALAD. 

Mash a cream cheese with a fork and, if stiff, work 
in a very little heavy cream. Season with paprika and 



Family Dinners. ^ 41 

make in the form of balls. Arrange lettuce in form of 
nests by putting two leaves with stem ends together. 
Put three cheese balls in each nest. Pour over a French 
Dressing, (p. 6, Family Dinners, Menu No. I.), and 
sprinkle one-half the nests with finely chopped parsley 
and the other half with paprika, having alternate nests 
of green and red. 

CREAM JELLY. 

1 tablespoon granulated ^ cup sugar 

gelatine Whip from 3 cups thin 

2 tablespoons cold water cream 

J cup scalded cream 1 teaspoon vanilla or 

2 teaspoons maraschino 

Soak gelatine in cold water and dissolve in hot 
cream. Add sugar and flavoring and strain. Beat 
until mixture begins to thicken, then cut and fold in 
whip from cream. Turn into a mould first dipped in 
cold water, and chill. 



42 What to Have for Dinner. 



MENU NO. X. 

No man can be wise on an empty stomach. — George 
Eliot. 

Corn and Chicken Soup. 

Broiled Oysters. 

Boiled Calves' Tongues. 

Mashed Potatoes. Boiled Spinach. 

Orange Tartlets with Meringue. 

Crackers. Cheese. 

Cafe Noir. 



Family Dinners. 43 

COEN AND CHICKEN SOUP. 

1 can com IJ tablespoons butter 

2 cups chicken stock 1^ tablespoons flour 
2 cups milk 1 teaspoon salt 

1 slice onion Few grains pepper 

Chop com, add stock, bring slowly to boiling point, 
and let simmer fifteen minutes; then rub through a 
sieve. Scald milk with onion, remove onion, and add 
milk to corn. Melt butter, add flour and pour on 
gradually, while stirring constantly, hot mixture; then 
add salt and pepper. 

BEOILBD OYSTBES. 

Wash one and one-half pints large oysters. Dry be- 
tween towels, dip in melted butter, then in fine cracker 
crumbs seasoned with salt. Place in a greased wire 
broiler and broil over a clear fire until juices begin to 
flow, turning frequently. Eemove to hot serving dish, 
spread with Maitre d'Hotel Butter and garnish with 
water cress. 

BOILED SPINACH. 

Eemove roots, carefully pick over an^ wash in several 
waters one-half peck spinach, being sure that it is free 
from all sand. Put in a stew pan containing two 
quarts boiling water, to which has been added one-half 
tablespoon salt, one-half teaspoon sugar, and one-fourth 
teaspoon soda. Cook until soft; the time required be- 
ing about twenty minutes. Drain thoroughly, chop, 
and add one-fourth cup melted butter and season with 
salt. Eemove to. hot serving dish, and garnish with tri- 
angles of bread sauted in butter. 



44 What to Have for Dinner. 

BOILED CALVES' TONGUES. 

Cover four fresh tongues with boiling water. Add 
five slices carrot, two stalks celery, one onion stuck with 
six cloves, fifteen peppercorns and one-half tablespoon 
salt, and cook until tender. Take from water, remove 
skin and roots and cut in halves lengthwise. Cook one- 
half can tomatoes with two cups brown stock until re- 
duced to one-half cup. Eeheat tongues in sauce. Gar- 
nish with parsley, lemon wheels and points of bread 
sauted in butter. 

MASHED POTATOES. 
Pare eight medium-sized potatoes and soak in cold 
water one hour. Cook in boiling salted water, until 
soft, then drain. Mash thoroughly, using a potato 
masher in same stew pan in which they were cooked. 
Add one-third cup butter, one and one-half teaspoons 
salt, few grains pepper, and one-half cup hot milk. 
Beat with a fork until creamy, reheat, and pile lightly 
on hot vegetable dish. 

OEANGE TAETLETS. 

Cover inverted patty pans (or muffin pans) with 
plain paste and bake in quick oven. Eemove from pans, 
place on tin baking sheet, fill with Orange Pilling, 
cover with Meringue and bake ten minutes. 

OEANGE PILLING. 

1 cup sugar ^ cup orange juice 

i cup flour 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

Grated rind 1 orange 2 eggs slightly beaten 

2 teaspoons butter 
Mix ingredients in order given. Cook twelve min- 



Family Dinners. 45 

utes in double boiler, stirring constantly, until mixture 
thickens, and afterwards occasionally. 

MEEINGUE. 

Whites 2 eggs i teaspoon vanilla 

4 tablespoons granulated sugar 

Beat whites of eggs until very stiff and add sugar, 
gradually, continuing the beating; then add flavoring. 



46 What to Have for Dinner. 



MENU NO. XI. 

"Let hunger move thy appetite and not savory sauces." 

Baked Blue Pish a la Lee. Dressed Cdcdmbees. 

EoASTED Leg 'OP Veal. 

Austrian Potatoes; Boiled Beets. 

Geoegiana Pudding, Fruit Sauce. 

Cafe Noir. 



Family Dinners. 47 

BAKED BLUB FISH 1 LA LEE. 

Split and bone a bluefish and lay on platter on which 
it is to be served, or on well buttered fish sheet. Eub 
one-fourth cup butter till creamy, add two egg yolks, and 
stir till well blended; then add two tablespoons each, 
onions, capers, pickles and parsley, finely chopped, three 
tablespoons lemon juice, one-half teaspoon salt, and one- 
fourth teaspoon pepper. Sprinkle fish with salt, spread 
with mixture, and bake fifteen to twenty minutes in a 
hot oven. Serve at once. 

DRESSED CUCUMBERS. 

Remove a thick slice from both stem and blossom end 
of cucumbers. Cut off a thick paring, then draw a three- 
lined fork the entire length of cucumber, and so continue 
until small cuts have been made around the cucumber. 
Cut in thin slices. Chill in ice water, drain, and serve 
with French Dressing. 

By the use of the fork the slices of cucumber have a 
cut edge which is very attractive. 

FRENCH DRESSING FOR CUCUMBERS. 

•J teaspoon salt 3 tablespoons vinegar 

^ teaspoon pepper 3 tablespoons olive oil 

Mix ingredients in order given, and stir until well 
blended. 

ROAST LEG OF VEAL. 

Order a leg of veal boned at market. Wipe meat, 
sprinkle with salt, stuff, and sew in shape. Make in- 
cisions with a sharp pointed knife, and insert strips of 
fat salt pork. Place on rack in dripping pan, sprinkle 



48 What to Have for Dinner. 

with salt, dredge meat and bottom of pan with flour, and 
bake three or four hours in a moderate oven. Baste every 
fifteen minutes with one-half cup butter melted in one 
cup boiling water until used, then baste with fat in pan. 
Eemove pork during the last half hour of the cooking. 
Veal should be thoroughly cooked. Serve with Brown 
Gravy. (See p. 4, Family Dinners, Menu No. I.) 

AUSTEIAN POTATOES. 

Wash, pare and cut potatoes in one-eighth inch slices ; 
there should be three cups. Cover with cold water and 
let stand fifteen minutes, drain, and cook in boiling 
salted water two minutes. Drain again, spread in a but- 
tered dripping pan and bake until potatoes are soft, bast- 
ing twice with one-third cup melted butter, to which has 
been added one tablespoon lemon Juice, one-half teaspoon 
salt, and one-eighth teaspoon paprika. 

BOILED BEETS. 

Wash six beets, and cook in boiling salted water until 
soft. Drain, cover with cold water, remove skins, and 
cut in thin slices. Season with two tablespoons butter 
and sprinkle sparingly with salt. 

STUFFED TOMATOES. 

Wipe and remove thin slices from stem ends of six ripe 
tomatoes. Scoop out most of the pulp, using a small 
spoon. Sprinkle inside of cases thus formed with salt, 
invert, and let stand thirty minutes. Cook two-thirds 
cup macaroni, broken in one-third inch pieces, in boiling 
salted water until soft. Add one-half cup grated cheese, 
and one-half the tomato pulp. Season highly with salt 
and paprika. 



Family Dinners. 49 

Fill tomato cases with, mixture, sprinkle tops with but- 
tered bread crumbs, and bake fifteen minutes in a hot 
oven. 

GEOEGIANA PUDDING. 

i cup butter ^ cup milk 

1 cup sugar If cups flour 

2 eggs 3 teaspoons baking powder 

Cream the butter, and add sugar, gradually, continu- 
ing the beating; then add eggs well beaten. Mix and 
sift flour and baking powder, and add to first mixture, 
alternately with milk. Bake in buttered muffin pans and 
serve with 

FEUIT SAUCE. 

■J cup butter White 1 egg 

1 cup powdered sugar 1 cup strawberries 

Cream the butter, and add sugar, gradually, continu- 
ing the beating ; then add white of egg beaten until stiff 
and berries thoroughly mashed, using a silver fork. If 
sauce separates during the making, put over hot water 
and beat until smooth. 



50 What to Have for Dinner. 



MENU NO. XII. 

A dinner lubricates business. — Lord Stowell. 

Cream of Celery Soup. Browned Crackers. 

Braised Fowl, Chestnut Stuffing. 

Mashed Potatoes. Brussels Sprouts with Celery, 

Farina Cups with Currant Jelly. 

Lemon Cream Sherbet. Brandy Snaps. 

Stuffed Raisins. 

Cafe Noir. 



Family Dinners. 51 

CKEAM OF CELBEY SOUP. 

5 stalks celery 3 tablespoons flour 

4 cups milk Salt 

2 slices onion Pepper 

3 tablespoons butter ^ cup cream 

Chop celery and pound in a mortar. Cook in double 
boiler with onion and milk thirty minutes. Melt the 
butter, add flour and cook one minute, then pour on 
gradually the hot milk, stirring constantly. Season 
with salt and pepper, add cream, strain into tureen and 
serve at once. 

BROWNED CRACKERS. 

Split common crackers, arrange in dripping pan and 
let stand in a slow oven until crisp and delicately 
browned. _ 

BRAISED FOWL. 

Dress, clean, stuff and truss a fowl. Try out a one 
and one-half inch cube of fat salt pork, and remove 
scraps. Saute fowl in pork fat, until entire surface is 
well browned, turning frequently. Remove to a trivet 
in a deep pan and pour over fat remaining in pan cooked, 
three minutes, with one small sliced onion, four slices 
carrot, two sprigs parsley and one-half bay leaf. Add 
two cups boiling water, cover, and bake in a slow oven 
until tender, basting every twenty minutes. Serve 
with a sauce made by straining the stock remaining in 
pan, removing fat, and thickening with two tablespoons 
flour diluted with cold water to form a thin, smooth 
paste. 



52 What to Have for Dinner. 

CHESTNUT STUFFING. 

1 quart French chestnuts 1| teaspoons salt 
i cup butter i teaspoon pepper 

Milk or cream 

Shell chestnuts and cook in boiling salted water 
until soft. Drain, and force through a potato ricer. 
Add seasonings and moisten, if necessary, with milk or 
cream. 

MASHED POTATOES. 
(See p. 44, under Family Dinners, Menu No.X.) 

BEUSSELS SPEOUTS WITH CELEEY. 

Eemove wilted leaves from one quart Brussels sprouts 
and soak in cold water fifteen minutes. Cook in boil- 
ing salted water twenty minutes, or until easily pierced 
with a skewer; then drain. Wash celery and cut in 
small pieces; there should be one and one-half cups. 
Melt three tablespoons butter, add celery and cook two 
minutes, then add three tablespoons flour and pour on 
gradually one and one-half cups scalded milk. Add 
sprouts, season with salt and pepper, and serve as soon 
as sprouts are reheated. 

FAEINA CUPS WITH CUERANT JELLY. 

i cup farina 1 teaspoon salt 

If cups milk 1 egg yolk 

Mix farina with one-third cup milk and add, gradu- 
ally, remaining milk, which has reached the scalding 
point in top of double boiler. Add salt and cook over 
hot water thirty minutes. Add yolk of egg, slightly 



Family Dinners. 53 

beaten and spread on a plate to cool. Shape in balls, 
then shape balls in cups. Dip in crumbs, egg and 
crumbs, and fry in deep fat. Drain and serve with cubes 
of currant jelly in cups. 

LEMON CREAM SHERBET. 

2 cups milk 1^ cups sugar 

1 pint cream Juice 3 lemons 

Mix fruit juice and sugar and add milk and cream. 
Freeze, using three parts finely crushed ice to one part 
rock salt. These proportions insure a smooth fine- 
grained mixture. 

BRANDY SNAPS. 

i cup of molasses f cup flour 

i cup butter § cup sugar 

1^ tablespoons ginger 

Heat molasses to boiling point, add butter, and, when 
melted, add flour mixed with sugar and ginger. Drop 
from tip of spoon in small portions on a buttered sheet, 
three inches apart. Bake in moderate oven; cool 
slightly, remove from pan, using a sharp knife, and 
roll over handle of wooden spoon. 

STUFFED RAISINS. 

Cut selected raisins nearly in halves lengthwise. 
Remove seeds, and fill cavities thus made with nut 
meats, broken in pieces, using almonds, English wal- 
nut meats, or pecans. Press into original shapes and 
roll in powdered sugar. Arrange in a bonbon dish, cov- 
ered with a doiley. 



54 What to Have for Dinner. 



MENU NO. XIII. 

"Courage, cheerfulness and a desire to work, depend, 
mostly, on good nutrilion." 

Soft Shell Crabs, Sauce Tartare. 

Planked Club Steak. 

Duchess Potatoes. Fried Tomatoes au Parmesan. 

Asparagus Salad. 

Cold Chocolate Bread Pttoding. 



Family Dinners. 55' 

SOFT SHELL CEABS. 

Clean crabs, sprinkle with salt, dip in egg and crumbs 
and fry in deep fat, turning often while frying. Serve 
with Sauce Tartare. (See p. 17, under Family Dinners, 
Menu No. IV.) 

PLANKED CLUB STEAK. 

Wash one-half cup butter, and add one-half table- 
spoon, each, red pepper, green pepper and parsley, finely 
chopped, one-fourth tablespoon onion, finely chopped, one 
clove of garlic finely chopped and one-half tablespoon 
lemon juice. Spread one-third of the mixture on the 
centre of a plank and arrange a border of Duchess Po- 
tatoes close to edge of plank, using a pastry bag and 
tube. Pan broil a Porterhouse Steak, cut one and one- 
half inches thick, four^ minutes, and remove to plank. 
Spread with remaining butter, and put in a hot oven 
to finish the cooking. Garnish with three large mush- 
room caps sauted in butter. 

DUCPIESS POTATOES. 

To three cups hot riced potatoes, add three tablespoons 
butter, one teaspoon salt, and the yolks of three eggs 
slightly beaten. 

FEIED TOMATOES AU PAEMESAN. 

Select medium-sized tomatoes and cut in slices cross- 
wise, sprinkle with salt and pepper, dredge with flour and 
saute in butter. Arrange each slice on a round of toasted 
bread, sprinkle with grated cheese, and pile whipped 
cream on top. 



156 What to Have for Dinner. 

ASPAEAGUS SALAD. 

Arrange cold boiled asparagus in nests of lettuce leaves 
and serve with 

CALIFOElSriA BOILED DEBSSING. 

Yolks 4 eggs 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

8 tablespoons olive oil 2 teaspoons powdered sugar 

4 tablespoons vinegar 1 teaspoon salt 

1 pint heavy cream 

Beat yolks of eggs, and add, gradually, four table- 
spoons olive oil; then add vinegar and lemon juice. 
Cook over hot water until mixture thickens and cool; 
then add, gradually, remaining oil, sugar and salt. Just 
before serving, add cream beaten until stiii. 

COLD CHOCOLATE BEEAD PUDDING. 

1 cup soft stale bread 2 cups milk 
crumbs Yolks 3 eggs 

1| squares chocolate 2 tablespoons butter 

1 cup sugar ^ teaspoon salt 

■J teaspoon vanilla 

Add bread, chocolate and sugar to cold milk, reserv- 
ing one-half cup. Put in double boiler and let cook un- 
til a smooth paste is formed. Beat yolks of eggs until 
light, add reserved milk, butter and. salt and stir into 
hot mixture. Cook until mixture thickens, then add 
vanilla. Turn into a buttered pudding dish and bake in 
a moderate oven twenty minutes. Cool slightly, cover 
with meringue and bake in a moderate oven eight min- 
utes. Serve very cold. 



Family Dinners. 57 

MERINGUE. 

Beat the whites of three eggs until stiff and add, grad- 
ually, one-fourth cup powdered sugar, continuing the 
beating; then cut and fold in one-fourth cup powdered 
sugar and add one-half teaspoon vanilla. 



58 What to Have for Dinner. 



MENU NO. XIV. 

Hunger is ike best seasoning for meat, and thirst for 
drink. — Ciceeo. 

Ckeam of Tomato Soup. Croutons. 

Baked Blue Fish, E6g Sauce, 

Baltimore Eelish. 

Potato Souffle. Shelled Beans. 

Honeycomb Pudding, Creamy Sauce. 

Cafe Noir. 



Family Dinners. 59 

CREAM OF TOMATO SOUP. 

^ can tomatoes ^ onion 

1 teaspoon sugar 2 tablespoons flour 

^ teaspoon soda 1^ teaspoons salt 

1 quart milk | teaspoon pepper 

2 tablespoons butter 

Scald milk with onion, remove onion, and thicken 
milk with flour diluted with cold water until thin 
enough to pour, being careful that the mixture is free 
from lumps; cook twenty minutes in double boiler, stir- 
ring constantly at first. Cook tomatoes with sugar fif- 
teen minutes, add soda, and rub through a sieve; com- 
bine mixtures, and strain into tureen, over butter, salt 
and pepper. 

BAKED BLUE FISH. 

Wipe, clean and split fish. Sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, put in dripping pan, and add one-third cup 
butter melted in three-fourths cup of boiling water. 
Bake in a hot oven, basting every five minutes with 
liquor in pan. Serve with Egg Sauce. 

EGG SAUCE. 

^ cup butter " Liquor remaining in pan 

3 tablespoons flour f teaspoon salt 

1 cup boiling water ^ teaspoon pepper 

2 hard boiled eggs, cut in thin slices 
J ,teaspoon Anchovy essence 

Melt the butter, add the ilour, and pour on, gradually, 
while stirring constantly, water and liquor remaining 
in pan. Bring to boiling point, add seasonings and hard 
boiled eggs. 



6o What to Have for Dinner. 

BALTIMORE EELISH. 
2 cups finely shredded 1^ teaspoons celery salt 
cabbage 2 tablespoons sugar 

1 red pepper, finely ^ teaspoon salt 
chopped i teaspoon mustard 

i cup vinegar 
Mix celery salt, sugar, salt and mustard, and pour 
on slowly the vinegar. Add pepper to cabbage and then 
add first mixture. 

POTATO SOUPFLfi. 

2 cups mashed potatoes 1 cup milk 

2 tablespoons melted butter Salt 

3 eggs Pepper 

Cayenne 
Beat the mashed potatoes until very light, add the 
butter, eggs well beaten, milk, salt, pepper and cayenne. 
Turn into a buttered baking dish and bake in a moderate 
oven until firm. 

SHELLED BEANS. 
Pick over and wash one quart shell beans, and cook 
one hour or until soft in a small quantity of boiling 
water, adding one and one-half teaspoons salt, after the 
first half hour of the cooking. Do not cover the vessel 
during the cooking. Allow water to become nearly 
evaporated. Season with two tablespoons melted but- 
ter and salt to taste. 

HONEYCOMB PUDDING. 
1 cup sugar ^ cup butter 

1 cup flour ^ cup milk (lukewarm) 

1 cup molasses i teaspoon soda 

4 



Family Dinners. 6i 

Mix sugar, flour and molasses. Melt butter in. milk 
nnd add soda. Combine mixtures and beat thoroughly, 
then add eggs well beaten. Turn into buttered baking 
dish and bake in a moderate oven. Serve with Creamy- 
Sauce. 

CEEAMY SAUCE. 

White 1 egg f cup sugar 

Yolk 1 egg f cup heavy cream 

2 tablespoons Sherry wine 

Beat white of egg until stifP and add sugar, gradually, 
while beating constantly; then add yolk of egg, beaten 
until thick and lemon colored, cream beaten until stiff, 
and wine. 



62 What to Have for Dinner. 



MENU NO. XV. 

Wherever the dinner is ill got up there is poverty or 
there is avarice or there is stupidity; in short, the family 
is somehow grossly wrong. — Dk. Johnson. 

HuntijVgton Soup. 

Bkoiled Beep Steak with Clam Blanket. 

BscALLOPED Cabbage. 

Potato and Cheese Croquettes. 

Fruit Tapioca. 

Cafe Noik. 



Family Dinners. 63 

HUNTINGTOF SOUP. 
(See p. 39, under Family Dinners, Menu No. IX.) 

BEOILED BEEF STEAK WITH CLAM BLANKET. 

Wipe a sirloin steak cut one and one-half inches thick, 
broil five minutes and remove to hot platter. Cover with 
one pint clams, place on grate in hot oven and cook until 
clams are plump. Spread with Maitre d'Hotel Buttei. 
(See p. 19, under Family Dinners, Menu No. IV.) and 
serve immediately. 

ESCALLOPED CABBAGE. 

Eemove outside leaves from a firm cabbage, cut in 
quarters and remove tough stalk. Soak in cold water, 
and cook until soft in a large uncovered kettle of boil- 
ing salted water, to which is added one-fourth teaspoon 
soda. Cut one-half cabbage in pieces, put in buttered 
baking dish, sprinkle with salt and pepper and pour over 
one cup white sauce. Cover with one-half cup buttered 
cracker crumbs, and bake until crumbs are brown. 

WHITE SAUCE. 

Melt two tablespoons butter, and add two tablespoons 
flour mixed with one-half teaspoon salt and a few grains 
pepper; then pour on gradually, while stirring con- 
stantly one cup milk. 

POTATO AND CHEESE CROQUETTES. 

To two cups hot riced potatoes add one cup grated 
mild cheese, one-half teaspoon salt, few grains cayenne, 
few drops onion juice, two tablespoons heavy cream, and 
yolk and white of one egg beaten separately. 



64 What to Have for Dinner. 

Beat mixture until lights shape into pyramids or coneSj 
roll in crumbs, egg and crumbs, fry in deep fat, and 
drain on browTi paper. 

FEUIT TAPIOCA. 

I cup pearl tapioca J cup Sherry wine 

2^ cups cold water ^ cup shredded almonds 

1-inch piece stick cinnamon j^ cup raisins, seeded and 
f teaspoon salt cut in small pieces 

1 tumbler currant jelly ^ cup citron finely cut 

Sugar 

Soak tapioca in cold water over-night. Add cinnamon 
and salt, and cook in double boiler until transparent. 
Kemove cinnamon, add remaining ingredients and 
sweeten to taste. Mould, chill, and serve with thin 
cream. 



Family Dinners. 65 



MENU NO. XVI. 

"A gsod dinner is better than a fine coat." 

Jdlienne Soup. 

Creamed Mushrooms. 

EoAST Stuffed Shoulder op Mutton. 

EiCED Potatoes. French String Beans. 

Cblert AND Cream Cheese Salad. 

Charlotte Russe. 



66 What to Have for Dinner. 

JULIENNE SOUP. 
(See p. 30, under Family Dinners, Menu No. VII.) 

CEEAMED MUSHEOOMS. 

Wash three-fourths pound mushrooms. Eemove stems, 
scrape, break in small pieces and cover wth cold water. 
Bring slowly to boiling point and let simmer until stock 
is reduced to three tablespoons. Peel caps and break 
in pieces. Melt four tablespoons butter, add mushroom 
caps, sprinkle with salt and pepper, dredge generously 
with flour and add three-fourths cup cream and liquor 
drained from stems. Heat to boiling point and serve 
immediately. Serve on croutons of fried bread. 

EOAST STUFFED SHOULDEE OF MUTTON. 

Wipe a shoulder of mutton and remove blade. Stuff 
space thus made, and sew into shape. Place on rack 
in dripping pan, sprinkle with salt, and dredge meat 
and bottom of pan with flour. Bake in hot oven, allow- 
ing fifteen minutes to the pound. Baste as soon as flour 
in pan is browned, and every fifteen minutes afterwards. 
It may be necessary to put a small quantity of hot water 
in pan during cooking. 

GEAVT. 

Eemove some of the fat from pan, leaving three 
tablespoons. Place pan on front of range, add three 
tablespoons flour and stir until well browned. The 
flour dredged and browned in pan, should give addi- 
tional color. Pour on gradually, while stirring con- 
stantly, one and one-half cups boiling water. Let boil 
three minutes, season with salt and pepper, and strain. 



Family Dinners. 67 

STUFFING. 

1 cup cracker crumbs J teaspoon pepper 

4 cup melted butter 1 tablespoon parsley, finely 

i teaspoon salt chopped 

J teaspoon, each, summer savory, thyme and marjoram 
i cup boiling water 

Mix ingredients in order given. 

EICED POTATOES. 

Force hot boiled potatoes through a potato ricer, and 
pile lightly on a hot vegetable dish. 

FEENCH STEING BEANS. 

Eemove beans from can, put in a strainer, and pour 
over two quarts cold water. Drain, and let stand, ex- 
, posed to the air, one-half hour. Heat very hot, and 
season with butter and salt. 

CELEEY AND CEEAM CHEESE SALAD. 

Mix one-half cup very finely chopped celery with one 
cream cheese. Make the mixture into small balls, ar- 
range in lettuce leaves, pour on a French dressing, 
sprinkle with paprika and garnish with radishes cut in 
fancy shapes. 

CHAELOTTB EUSSE. 

IJ cups heavy cream f tablespoon granulated 

■J cup milk gelatine 

^ cup powdered sugar 3 tablespoons scalded milk 

1 tablespoon cold water Few grains salt 
f teaspoon vanilla 
I-ady fingers 



68 What to Have for Dinner. 

Dilute cream with milk and beat until stiff, then add 
sugar. Soak gelatine in cold water and dissolve in scalded 
milk. Fold gelatine carefully into cream to prevent 
mixture from lumping. Add salt and flavoriiig. Line 
a mould with Lady Fingers, turn in mixture and chill. 



Family Dinners. 69 



MENU NO. XVII. 

"In diet lies the hey to nine-tenths of the social and 
political problems that vex our age and time." 

Brown Soup with Macaroni Eings and Cheese. 

Fillets of Cod, B^ichamel Sauce. 

Austrian Potatoes. 

Braised Liver with Green String Beans. 

MaIrshmallow Pudding. 



JO What to Have for Dinner. 

BEOWN SOUP WITH MACAEONI EINGS AND 

CHEESE. 

Break macaroni in one-half inch pieces ; there should 
be one-fourth cup. Cook in boiling salted water^ drain, 
and cut in one-eighth inch rings. Bring iive cups brown 
soup stock (see p. 30, under Family Dinners, Menu No. 
VII.) to boiling point. Add macaroni rings and season 
with salt. Pass grated Parmesan cheese with this soup. 

FILLETS OF COD. 

Wipe two slices of cod, each weighing three-fourths 
pound, remove skin and bones, and cut fish in eight 
fillets. Melt one-fourth cup butter and season with salt, 
cayenne and onion juice. Dip each fillet, separately in 
butter, roll and fasten with a small wooden skewer. Put 
in a shallow pan, dredge with flour, and bake fifteen 
minutes in a hot oven. Eemove skewer, and arrange 
fish on serving dish. Pour over one and one-half cups 
Bechamel Sauce, and garnish with hard boiled eggs, 
cut in fancy shapes, slices of lemon, and parsley. 

BfiCHAMEL SAUCE. 

4 tablespoons butter 6 peppercorns 

2 slices onion 5 tablespoons flour 

2 slices carrot IJ cups white stock 

Bit of bay leaf 1 cup milk 

Sprig of parsley -J teaspoon salt 

■J teaspoon pepper 

Put three tablespoons butter in sauce pan with onion, 
carrot, bay leaf, parsley and peppercorns and cook two 
minutes. Pour on gradually stock and let come to boil- 



Family Dinners, 71 

ing point. Set on back of range and let stand twenty 
minutes. Strain, add milk, salt, pepper, and remaining 
butter, bit by bit. 

AUSTEIAN POTATOES. 
(See p. 48, under Family Dinners, Menu No. XI.) 

BEAISED LIVER WITH GEEEN STEING BEANS. 

Eemove skin from a calf's liver and lard upper pari 
with two rows lardoons of fat bacon ; or if larding needle 
is not at hand make incisions in lines, using the point 
of a sharp knife, and insert bits of bacon. Sprinkle 
entire surface with salt and celery salt, and dredge with 
flour. Put trimmings fropi lardoons in hot iron frying 
pan, and when tried out, add liver and cook until sur- 
face is well seared and browned, turning frequently. 
Put in a braising pan, add five slices carrot, one-half 
onion, two sprigs parsley, bit of bay leaf, one clove, 
twelve peppercorns, and two cups brown stock or water. 
Cover closely and bake in a moderate oven two and one- 
fourth hours, basting five times during the baking. 
Remove liver, strain stock and reduce to a glaze. Add 
two tablespoons white wine and pour over the liver. 
Remove to hot serving dish and surround with Green 
String Beans. 

GREEN STRING BEANS. 

String two quarts beans and cut into narrow strips. 
Wash and cook in boiling water to which is added one- 
third teaspoon soda. Boil in an uncovered vessel until 
soft. Drain and rinse thoroughly with cold water. 
Return to hot kettle, add two tablespoons butter and 



72 What to Have for Dinner. 

sprinkle with salt. Shake kettle frequently until beans 
are reheated, then sprinkle wth two tablespoons finely 
chopped parsley. 

MAESHMALLOW PUDDING. 

1 tablespoon granulated 1 cup sugar 
gelatine Whites 3 eggs 

1 cup boiling water 1^ teaspoons vanilla 

Dissolve gelatine in boiling water. Set bowl in pan 
of ice water, add sugar and stir constantly, until mixture 
is cool. Add whites of eggs and vanilla and beat, using 
a Dover Egg Beater until mixture thickens; the time 
required being about twenty minutes. Turn into a 
deep cake pan, first dipped in water, and let stand until 
thoroughly chilled. Just before serving time, remove 
from pan and cut in pieces the size and shape of marsh- 
mallows. Pile on a glass dish. Serve with sugar and 
cream or hot Chocolate Sauce. 

HOT CHOCOLATE SAUCE. 

1 cup sugar 1 tablespoon butter 

$ cup thin cream or milk 1| squares chocolate 
i teaspoon vanilla 

Put ingredients except vanilla in sauce pan ; bring to 
boiling point and let boil seven minutes stirring con- 
stantly. Flavor and serve while hot. 



Family Dinners. 73 



MENU NO. XVIII. 

"Half the cost, of life is the price of food." 

Chicken Soup. Imperial Ckusts. 

Shoulder of Braised Veal. 

Parched Eice with Tomato Sauce. 

Succotash. 

California Salad, Mayonnaise Dressing. 

Strawberry Short Cake. 

Caf:6 NoiR. 



74 What to Have for ' Dinner. 

CHICKEN SOUP. 

4 cups chicken stock 1 tablespoon ilour 

i cup butter i cup soft bread crumbs 

2 slices carrot Salt 

2 slices onion Pepper 

2 stalks celery 2 cups milk 

Cook vegetables, finely cut, in three tablespoons but- 
ter, three minutes, add stock, and bread crumbs, boil ten 
minutes and strain. Add milk and thicken with remain- 
ing butter and flour, cooked together. Season with salt 
and pepper. If a richer soup is desired, use one cup, 
each, milk and cream, in place of all milk. 

IMPEEIAL CEUSTS. 

Cut stale bread in one-third slices and remove crusts. 
Cut slices in one-third inch strips, put in pan, and bake 
until delicately browned. Stir occasionally, that crusts 
may be browned evenly. 

BKAISBD SHOULDER OF VEAL. 

Bone, stuff, and sew in shape five pounds shoulder of 
veal. Try out two slices fat salt pork, and remove scraps. 
Sprinkle veal with salt and pepper, dredge with flour, 
and brown entire surface in pork fat. Place on trivet in 
a deep earthen pudding dish and add one-fourth cup, 
each, carrot, turnip and onion, cut in dice, twelve pepper- 
corns, one sprig thyme, two sprigs marjoram, and three 
cups boiling water. Cover closely and cook four hours 
in a very slow oven, basting every half hour, and turn- 
ing after the second hour. Serve with a brown sauce 
made from liquor remaining in pan. 



Family Dinners. 75 

PAECHBD EICE WITH TOMATO SAUCE. 

Pick over three-fourths cup rice and add slowly to 
two quarts boiling water, to which is added one table- 
spoon salt. Let boil twenty-five minutes, or until kernels 
are soft. Drain, and pour over one quart hot water; re- 
turn to kettle in which it was cooked, and let stand until 
cool and dry, when kernels will be distinct. Heat an iron 
frying pan very hot, add two tablespoons butter, and 
when melted, add rice, and cook until rice is slightly 
browned, stirring lightly with a fork. Put in hot serv- 
ing dish, pour over one cup hot tomato sauce and sprinkle 
with one-half cup grated cheese, lifting rice with fork, 
that sauce and cheese may coat each kernel. 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

2 tablespoons butter 1 cup stewed and strained 

1 slice onion tomatoes 

2J tablespoons flour J teaspoon salt 

Few grains paprika 

Cook butter with onion until slightly browned, add 
flour, and when well browned, pour on, gradually, while 
stirring constantly, tomatoes. Bring to boiling point, 
add seasonings and strain. 

SUCCOTASH. 

1 pint shell beans 1 tablespoon butter 

1 pint green corn ^ cup cream 

1 inch cube fat salt pork Salt 
Pepper 

Shell and pick over beans, cover with boiling water, 
add pork, and let boil until nearly soft,; then add green 



76 What to Have for Dinner. 

corn, cut from cobs, and cook twenty minutes. When 
corn is done, the water should be nearly evaporated. 
Remove pork, and add butter, cream and seasonings. 

CALIFORNIA SALAD. 

1 cup crab meat § cup celery 

4 small tomatoes 

Remove the meat from crabs and cut in pieces of uni- 
form size, add the celery finely cut and tomatoes cut in 
quarters. Marinate with French Dressing (see p. 6, under 
Family Dinners, Menu No. I.), serve on lettuce leaves 
and garnish with Mayonnaise Dressing. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 

■J teaspoon mfustard Yolks 2 eggs 

•J teaspoon salt f tablespoon lemon juice 

Few grains cayenne f tablespoon vinegar 

I cup olive oil 

Mix dry ingredients, add egg yolks and when well 
mixed, add oil gradually, at first drop by drop, stirring 
constantly. As mixture thickens, thin with vinegar and 
lemon juice. Add oil and vinegar or lemon juice al- 
ternately, until all is used, stirring constantly. 

STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE. 

2 cups flour I cup of butter 
4 teaspoons baking powder 1 egg 

1 tablespoon sugar ^ cup milk 

■J teaspoon salt Strawberries 

Whipped Cream 

Mix and sift flour, baking powder, sugar and salt and 



Family Dinners. 'jf 

work in butter, using tips of fingers. Beat egg until 
very light and add milk; then combine the mixtures. 
Toss on a slightly floured board and divide in two parts. 
Pat, roll out, and bake in a hot oven in round layer 
cake pans. Split, remove soft part, and spread with 
butter. Sprinkle strawberries with sugar, place on back 
of range until warmed, crush slightly and put between 
and on top of shortcakes. Cover with whipped cream 
sweetened and flavored, and garnish with whole berries. 



/8 What to Have for Dinner. 



MENU NO. XIX. 

Nothing lovelier can he found in woman, than to study 
household good. — Milton. 

Beoiled Fish. Cole Slaw in Cabbage Shell. 

Stuffed Hearts with Vegetables. 

Potatoes 1 la Goldenrod. 

Almond Pudding. Whipped Cream. 

Assorted Fruit. 



Family Dinners. 79 

BROILED FISH. 

Mackerel, bluefish, cod and haddock are split and 
broiled whole; removing head and tail, or not, as de- 
.pired. Salmon, halibut and swordfish are cut in slices 
for broiling. Smelts are broiled whole without splitting. 
Clean and wipe fish as dry as possible, sprinkle with salt 
and pepper, and place in a well greased broiler. Whole 
iish should be broiled first on flesh side, then turned and 
broiled on skin side long enough to brown and crisp 
skin. Slices of fish should be turned often during broil- 
ing. Remove to hot serving dish, spread with softeneo 
butter, and garnish with parsley and lemon. 

COLE SLAW IN CABBAGE SHELL. 

Remove the outside leaves from a small, solid, white 
cabbage, and cut off stalk close to leaves. Cut out centre 
and with a sharp knife shred finely. Let stand one 
hour in cold water, drain, and wring in double cheese 
cloth. Moisten with dressing and refill cabbage shell. 
Arrange on a folded napkin and garnish with parsley. 

COLE SLAW DRESSING. 

1 teaspoon mustard Few grains cayenne 

1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon melted butter 

2 teaspoons flour Yolk 1 egg 

^ teaspoon sugar J cup hot vinegar 

•J cup heavy cream 

Mix ingredients in order given. Cook over hot water, 
stirring constantly until mixture thickens. Strain and 
cool. 



8o What to Have for Dinner. 

STUFFED HEARTS WITH VEGETABLES. 

Clean and wash calves' liearts, stuif, skewer into shape 
and lard upper surface. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, 
dredge with flour and saute in pork fat, tried out with 
one stalk celery, two sprigs parsley, four slices carrot 
cut in pieces, one slice turnip, cut in small pieces, a bit 
of bay leaf, two cloves and ten peppercorns. When 
hearts are well browned remove to deep earthen or gran- 
iteware dish, add one and one-half cups brown stock, 
cover closely, and bake in a slow oven one and one-half 
hours, basting every twenty minutes. Eemove to hot 
platter and surround with carrots and turnips cut in 
thin strips, cooked until tender in boiling, salted water, 
drained and seasoned with butter, salt and pepper. 

STUFFING. 
Roll six common crackers, and add a two-inch cube 
fat salt pork finely chopped, two stalks celery finely 
chopped, with one sprig parsley, and two teaspoons 
finely chopped onion. Season with salt and pepper. 

POTATOES A LA GOLDENROD. 
Cut boiled potatoes in cubes; there should be two 
cups. Separate yolks from whites of four hard-boiled 
eggs. Chop the whites and force the yolks through a 
potato ricer or strainer. Add potato cubes and chopped 
whites to one and one-half cups white sauce, turn into 
a hot serving dish. Sprinkle with yo?.ks and garnish 
with parsley. 

WHITE SAUCE. 
3 tablespoons butter 2 slices onion 

3 tablespoons flour ^ teaspoon salt 

IJ cups milk Few grains paprika 



Family Dinners. 8i 

Melt butter, add flour, and pour on gradually, while 
stirring constantly, the milk which has been scalded with 
the onion, then the onion removed. When boiling point 
is reached, add seasonings and beat until smooth and 
glossy. 

ALMOND PUDDING. 



4 tablespoons buttei 




1^ cups flour 


i cup sugar 




^ teaspoon soda 


■J cup molasses 




i teaspoon cinnamon 


2 eggs 




1 cup almonds blanched 


J cup milk 




and roasted 




1 teasj 


)oon salt 



Cream butter, add sugar gradually, molasses, and 
eggs well beaten. Mix and sift dry ingredients and add 
alternately with milk to first mixture ; then add almonds 
finely chopped. Turn into buttered mould and steam 
two and one-half hours, never allowing water to go be- 
low the boiling point. Serve with Whipped Cream. 

WHIPPED CREAM. 

f cup thick cream i cup powdered sugar 

i cup milk ^ teaspoon vanilla 

Mix cream and milk and beat until stiff, using egg 
beater ; then add sugar and vanilla. 



82 What to Have for Dinner. 



MENU NO. XX. 

"The fate of nations depends on how they are fed." 

Clam Bouillon. 

Boiled Leg of Mutton-, Caper Sauce 

Mashed Potatoes. Carrots 1 la Poulettb. 

Salad Chiffonade. 

Chocolate Souffle. Vanilla Hard Sauce. 



Family Dinners. 83 

CLAM BOUILLON. 

4 quarts clams Salt 

2^ cups cold water Pepper 

Buy clams in shells. Wash and scrub, using a 
brush, changing the water several times. Put in kettle, 
add water, cover tightly, bring gradually to boiling 
point, and steam until shells are opened. Strain liquor 
through cheese cloth, season and serve in bouillon cups. 

BOILED LEG OF MUTTON, 

Wipe meat, place in a kettle, cover with boiling water, 
bring quickly to boiling point, and let boil five minutes. 
Eeraove scum, set on back of range and let simmer 
until meat is tender. When half done, add one table- 
spoon salt, twelve peppercorns, bit of bay leaf, sprig 
of paibley, stalk of celery, one-half onion, and two slices 
each, carrot and turnip. Eemove to hot platter and gar- 
nish bone with paper frill or slices of cooked vegetables 
cut in fancy shapes. 

Serve with Caper Sauce I. or II. 

CAPER SAUCE L 

i cup butter 1| cups mutton stock 

3 tablespoons ilour -J cup capers 

Yolk 1 egg ^ 

Put one-half butter in sauce pan, and, when melted, 
add flour, and pour on gradually mutton stock freed 
from all fat. Add capers, egg yolk slightly beaten and 
remaining butter, bit by bit. 



84 What to Have for Dinner. 

CAPER SAUCE II. 

1 cup butter 1 tablespoon parsley finely 

i cup capers chopped 

^ teaspoon salt Few grains pepper 

Melt butter, and heat very hot without reaching the 
boiling point. Add capers, parsley and seasonings. 

MASHED POTATOES. 
(See p. 44, under Family Dinners, Menu No. X.) 

CAREOTS A LA POULETTE. 

Wash and scrape carrots and cut in small cubes; 
there should be two cups. Cover with boiling water and 
let stand five minutes. Drain and cook until soft in a 
small quantity of boiling salted water to which is added 
one-half tablespoon butter ; again drain. Melt three table- 
spoons butter, add three tablespoons flour and pour on. 
gradually, while stirring constantly, one cup white 
stock and one-half cup cream. Add carrots, and one- 
half teaspoon lemon juice, and season with salt and pep- 
per. As soon as thoroughly heated, add yolks two eggs 
slightly beaten. 

SALAD CHIPPONADE. 

Wash one head, each, lettuce and romaine; then 
drain. Wash and scrape celery and cut in small pieces ; 
there should be one-half cup. Boil two green peppers, 
remove seeds, cool and shred. Peel four tomatoes and 
cut in quarters. Remove pulp from one grape fruit. 
Arrange lettuce and romaine in salad dish. Arrange 
peppers in two sections opposite each other; fill remain- 



Family Dinners. 85 

ing sections with tomatoes. Put celery in centre and 
cover with grape fruit pulp. Pour over French Dress- 
ing. (See p. 6, under Family Dinners, Menu No. I.) 

CHOCOLATE SOUFFLfi. 

2 tablespoons butter ^ cup powdered sugar 

2 tablespoons flour (scant) 

f cup milk i teaspoon salt 

li squares chocolate Yolks 3 eggs 

2 tablespoons hot water Whites 4 eggs 
^ teaspoon vanilla 

Melt butter, add flour and pour on milk, gradually, 
while stirring constantly. Bring to boiling point, and 
add chocolate melted and mixed with sugar and water, 
to form a smooth paste. Beat yolks of eggs until thick 
and lemon colored, and add to first mixture; then add 
salt and cool. Cut and fold in whites of eggs beaten 
until stifE and dry and add flavoring. Turn into a but- 
tered baking dish, and bake in a moderate oven from 
thirty to thirty-five minutes. Serve immediately with 
Creamy Sauce. This mixture may be baked in individual 
cases and served with vanilla ice cream. 

CREAMY SAUCE. 

i cup butter i teaspoon lemon extract 

1^ cups powdered sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Cream the butter; add sugar gradually, beating con- 
stantly; then add flavoring. 

By thoroughly beating, this sauce may be made the 
consistency of whipped cream. 



86 What to Have for Dinner. 



MENU NO. XXI. 

"Bad cooking diminishes happiness and shortens life,' 

Boiled Haddock with Hot Sauce Tartarb. 

French Fried Potatoes. 

Devilled Chicken Fricasse. 

Chestnut Balls. 

Artichokes with Hollandaise Sauce. 

Dressed Lettuce. 

Cream Cheese. Bar-le-duc Currants. Wafers, 

Cusi'AKD Pudding. 

Cafe Noir. 



Family Dinners. 87 

BOILED HADDOCK. 

Clean a fish, leaving on head and tail. Arrange in 
circular form in a round tin, and tie in cheese cloth. 
Boil in Court Bouillon to cover, allovring thirty minutes 
for a fish weighing four pounds. Eemove to hot serving 
dish, and garnish with parsley. 

Serve hot with Hot Sauce Tartare. 

COUET BOUILLON. 

■J cup, each, carrot, onion 6 peppercorns 

and celery, cut in small 2 cloves 

pieces J bay leaf 

2 sprigs parsley 1 tablespoon salt 

3 tablespoons butter 2 tablespoons vinegar 

2 quarts water 

Cook carrot, onion, celery and parsley with butter 
three minutes, add rejnaining ingi-edients and bring to 
boiling point. To be used for stock in which to boil 
fish. 

HOT TAETAEE SAUCE. 

1 tablespoon butter f tablespoon, each, capers, 

1 tablespoon flour olives, pickles and pars- 

i teaspoon salt ley, finely chopped 

^ cup milk 1 teaspoon lemon juice 

J cup Mayonnaise Dressing 

Melt butter, add flour, and pour on, gradually, while 
stirring constantly, the milk. Add capers, olives, pickles, 
parsley and lemon juice, and lastly Mayonnaise Dress- 
ing. Heat very hot, but do not allow mixture to reach 



88 What to Have for Dinner. 

the boiling point. This sauce may be served with any 
boiled or fried fish. 



FEENCH PEIED POTATOES. 

Select small potatoes of uniform size. Wash, pare and 
cut in halves lengthwise. Cut halves in four pieces, 
lengthwise, and let stand in cold water one hour. Drain 
and dry between towels, then fry in deep fat from eight 
to ten minutes. Drain on brown paper, and sprinkle 
^vith salt. 

DEVILLED' CHICKEN FEICASSE. 

Dress, clean, and cut a chicken or young fowl in piece? 
for serving. Put in a kettle, cover with boiling water, 
and let cook slowly until tender. When chicken is about 
half done, add two slices carrot, two slices onion, one 
stalk celery, sprig of parsley, bit of bay leaf, twelve pep- 
percorns, and one-half tablespoon salt. Eemove chicken, 
strain liquor (there should be two cups) and cool quickly, 
that fat may be removed and stock used for sauce. 

Melt four tablespoons butter, and cook until well 
browned, add six tablespoons flour and continue the 
browning, then pour on, gradually, while stirring con- 
stantly, the chicken stock. Mix one and one-half table- 
spoons mustard, one-half teaspoon salt, one-eighth tea- 
spoon pepper, few grains cayenne, grated rind of one-half 
lemon, one teaspoon lemon juice, one teaspoon vinegar 
and three teaspoons Worcestershire Sauce. Add mixture 
to sauce. Dip each piece of chicken separately in sauce 
and then in crumbs, seasoned with salt. Arrange in 
dripping pan, and bake in a hot oven until well browned, 
basting once with one-fourth cup melted butter. Eemove 
to hot serving dish, and pour around remaining sauce. 



Family Dinners. 89 

CHESTNUT BALLS. 

2 cups hot riced chestnuts 1 egg 

3 tablespoons butter 2 tablespoons cream or 
^ teaspoon salt Sherry wine 

Few 'grains pepper 
Shell chestnuts, cook until soft in boiling salted water, 
and force through a potato ricer; there should be two 
cups. Add butter, salt, pepper, eggs slightly beaten and 
cream. Shape into balls the size of chestnuts, roll in 
flour, fry in deep fat, and drain on brown paper. 

To Shell Chestnuts. 
Cut a one-half inch gash on ilat sides, and put in an 
omelet pan, with one-half teaspoon butter to each cup 
chestnuts. Shake over range until butter is melted. 
Put in oven and let stand five minutes. Eemove from 
oven and with a small knife, take ofE shells. Shelling 
and blanching is accomplished at the same time, as skins 
adhere to shells. 

ARTICHOKES WITH HOLLANDAISE SAUCE. 
Trim artichokes and cut off ends of leaves. Soak in 
cold salted water forty minutes. Drain and cook in boil- 
ing salted water to which has been added the juice of one 
lemon, and one-fourth teaspoon soda. Boil until ten- 
der, which may be determined by the leaves coming off 
readily. Drain, remove soft part found in centre, re- 
heat in boiling water, drain and serve on a napkin. 
Serve with Hollandaise Sauce passed in a sauce boat. 

HOLLANDAISE SAUCE. 
^ cup butter J teaspoon salt 

Yolks 3 eggs Few grains cayenne 

1 tablespoon lemon juice -J cup boiling water 



go What to Have for Dinner. 

Wash butter and divide into three pieces. Put one 
piece in sauce pan with lemon juice and seasonings. 
Place sauce pan in large one containing boiling water 
and stir constantly until butter is melted. Add second 
piece of butter, and, as mixture thickens, third piece. 
Add water and cook one minute, stirring constantly. 

DKESSED LETTUCE. 
(See p. 14, under Family Dinners, Menu No. III.) 

CUSTAED PUDDING. 

18 lady fingers Yolks 4 eggs 

Apricot marmalade ^ cup sugar 

2 cups milk ^ teaspoon salt 

■J teaspoon vanilla 

Spread lady fingers with jam, slightly heated, and 
arrange in slightly buttered baking dish. Make a cus- 
tard of remaining ingredients and pour over cake. Let 
stand one hour, then reheat in oven. Cover with 
meringue and return to oven to brown. 

MEEINGUE. 

Beat whites of three eggs until stifE, and add, gradu- 
ally, while beating vigorously, four tablespoons powdered 
sugar and one-third teaspoon vanilla ; then cut and fold 
in three and one-half tablespoons powdered sugar. 



Family Dinners. 91 



MENU NO. XXII. 

"Preserve and treat food as you would your hody, re- 
membering that in time food will be your body." 

OisTER Soup. 

Bkeaded Lamb Fillets. 

Mashed Potatoes. Fried Cucumbers. 

Peach Cabinet Pudding. 

Crackers. Cheese, 

Caf:6 Noik. 



92 What to Have for Dinner. 

OYSTER SOUP. 

1 quart oysters Bit of bay leaf 

2 cups white stock 2 tablespoons butter 

1 cup stale bread crumbs 1 tablespoon flour 

^ onion sliced 3^ cups scalded milk 

3 stalks celery ^ cup cream 

2 sprigs parsley 1 egg yolk 
1 blade mace. Salt 

Cayenne 
Clean and remove all particles of shell from oysters, 
reserving liquor, and setting aside soft portions. Cook 
chicken stock, bread crumbs, reserved liquor, tough part 
of oysters, onion, celery, parsley, mace, and bay leaf, 
twenty minutes. Eub through a sieve, bring to boiling 
point, add butter and flour cooked together, milk, soft 
part of oysters, cream mixed with yolk of egg and sea- 
sonings. When very hot serve at once. 

BEEADED LAMB FILLETS. 
Prepare lamb same as for Sauted Fillets of Lamb. 
(See p. 13, under Family Dinners, Menu No. III.) Dip 
in crumbs, eggs, and crumbs, fry in deep fat, and drain 
on brown paper. To offer variety these fillets may be 
shaped like chops, and, after frying, insert an inch and 
one-half piece of macaroni in each fillet to represent the 
bones. Serve with Tomato Sauce or Fried Cucumbers. 

MASHED POTATOES. 
(See p. 44, under Family Dinners, Menu No. X.) 

FEIED CUCUMBEES. 
Eemove thick slices from ends and cut off thick par- 
ings from two cucumbers. Cut in one-half inch slices. 



Family Dinners. 93 

To two cups water, add one teaspoon salt, one-eighth tea- 
spoon pepper and two tablespoons vinegar. Add sliced 
cucumbers and let stand one hour. Drain, dry between 
towels, fry in deep fat, and drain on brown paper. 

PEACH CABINET PUDDING. 

1 can peaches Yolks 3 eggs 
i cup powdered sugar J cup sugar 

2 tablespoons Sherry wine | teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon brandy 1^ tablespoons granulated 

2 tablespoons cold water gelatine 

2 cups milk Whites 3 eggs 

Drain peaches, cut in quarters, sprinkle with pow- 
dered sugar, and pour over sherry and brandy. Make a 
custard of milk, egg yolks, sugar and salt, and just be- 
fore removing from fire add gelatine soaked in cold 
water. Strain and when slightly cooled add liquor 
drained from peaches. Stir until mixture begins to 
thicken, then add whites of eggs beaten stiff. Line a 
mould with peaches, pour in custard and chill. 



94 What to Have for Dinner. 



MENU NO. XXIII. 

"A good dinner is brother to the good poem." 

Appledore Bean Soup. 

Calf's Head. Eiced Potatoes. 

Baked Macaroni with Cheese. 

Parsnips with Drawn Butter Sauce. 

Apple Dumplings. Peach Brandy Sauce. 

Assorted Nuts. 



Family Dinners. 95 

APPLEDOEE BEAN SOUP. 

1- cup dried lima beans If cups milk 

3 pints cold water 4 tablespoons butter 

4 slices onion IJ tablespoons flour 
8 slices carrot 3 teaspoons salt 

3 tablespoons tomato catsup 

Soak beans, over-night, in cold water to cover; in 
the morning drain and add cold water. Bring to boiling 
point and let boil until soft; then rub through a sieve. 
Cut vegetables in small pieces, and cook five minutes in 
one-half the butter, remove vegetables, add flour and 
salt and stir into boiling soup. Add milk, and catsup, 
reheat, strain and add remaining butter in small pieces. 

CALF'S HEAD. 

Soak head in cold water to cover one-half hour and 
scrub with brush. Put in boiling water and boil five 
minutes, drain, remove any hairs that may remain, and 
cook two or three hours in boiling water to nearly cover 
to which is added two onions, one-half carrot, two 
stalks celery, two sprigs of parsley, twelve peppercorns, 
one sprig each of thyme, summer savory and marjoram, 
three-fourths tablespoon salt, and juice, of one lemon. 
Eemove head and cut the meat into pieces one and one- 
half inches square. Make a sauce with three tablespoons 
butter, four tablespoons flour, and one cup liquor in 
which head has been cooked. Season highly with salt 
and cayenne, add one-half cup Sauterne wine, four and 
one-half teaspoons vinegar, one-fourth cup cream and 
two egg yolks. Add the calf's head meat, and when 
very hot turn on a hot platter, garnish with croutons of 
fried bread and slices of lemon. Sprinkle top with 
parsley and serve very hot. 



96 What to Have for Dinner. 

BAKED MACAEONI WITH CHEESE. 

Break macaroni into one-inch pieces; there should be 
one cup. Cook in a large quantity of boiling salted 
water until soft; drain, rinse with hot water, put in a 
buttered baking dish, pour over white sauce, and 
sprinkle with grated cheese and soft bread crumbs. 
Bake until brown. 

WHITE SAUCE. 

2 tablespoons butter Few grains pepper 

2 tablespoons flour 2 cups scalded milk 

i teaspoon salt ^ cup grated cheese 

Put butter in sauce pan, and stir until melted and bub- 
bling; then add flour mixed with seasonings and stir 
until thoroughly blended. Pour on gradually while stir- 
ring constantly, the hot milk, then beating until smooth. 
Add cheese and pour over macaroni. 

PAESNIPS WITH DEAWN BUTTEE SAUCE. 

Prepare parsnips as for Fried Parsnips (see p. 27, 
under Family Dinners, Menu No. VI). Cut in slices 
one-fourth inch thick and slices in strips one-fourth 
inch wide. Eeheat in 

DEAWN" BUTTEE SAUCE. 

i cup butter IJ cups boiling water 

2J tablespoons flour ^ teaspoon salt 

Few grains paprika 

Melt one-half the butter, add flour mixed with sea- 
sonings and pour on, gradually, hot water. Bring to 
boiling point and let boil three minutes; then add re- 
maining butter in small pieces. 



Family Dinners. 97 

APPLE DUMPLINGS. 

EoU plain paste (see p. 105, tinder New England 
Thanksgiving Dinner) very thin and cut in eight 
squares. Pare and core eight medium-sized apples and 
place an apple on the centre of each square. Fill each 
cavity with sugar and add a few grains each, cinna- 
mon and nutmeg and a bit of butter. Wet edges of 
pastry with white of egg and fold points over apple. 
Place in dripping pan and pour around one cup boiling 
water to which has been added one-half cup of sugar, 
one-fourth cup of butter and one-half teaspoon cinna- 
mon. Bake in a hot oven until apples are soft ; the time 
required being about fifty minutes. A few minutes 
before removing from oven brush over tops with white 
of egg and sprinkle with sugar. Serve with 

PEACH BEANDY SAUCE. 

■J cup butter J cup heavy cream, beaten 

1 cup powdered sugar stiff 

Whites 2 eggs 1 or 3 tablespoons peach 

Few grains salt brandy 

Cream the butter, add the sugar gradually, while 
beating constantly ; then add whites of eggs beaten until 
stiff, and salt. Put bowl containing mixture in sauce 
pan of hot water, and stir mixture constantly until 
thoroughly heated. Remove from fire and add cream 
and peach brandy. ^ 



98 What to Have for Dinner. 



MEKU NO. XXIV. 

We live not upon what we eat, hut upon what we di- 
gest. — W. 0. Atwater. 

Cream of Celery Soup. Croutons. 

Baked Ox JoinrTS. Potato Croquettes. 

Lettuce and Cucumber Salad. 

Lemon Meringue Pie. 



Family Dinners. 99 

CEEAM OF CELEEY SOTJP. 
(See p. 51, under Family Dinners, Menu No. XII.) 

BAKED OX JOINTS. 

Cut two ox tails at joints and parboil five minutes. 
Wash thoroughly and saute in butter with two sliced 
onions until well browned. Add one-third cup flour, 
three cups water, three cups canned tomatoes, one tea- 
spoon salt, and one-fourth teaspoon pepper. Turn into 
a deep earthen pudding dish, cover, and cook in a slow 
oven three hours. Eemove ox tails, and sti^in sauce and 
return ox tails and sauce to oven to finish the cooking; 
then add one and one-half cups carrots, cut in strips and 
one cup turnips cut in small cubes, parboiled in boiling 
salted water five minutes. Bake until vegetables are soft. 

POTATO CEOQUETTES. 

2 cups hot riced potatoes ^ teaspoon onion juice 
4 tablespoons butter Yolks of 2 eggs 

f teaspoon salt ^ tablespoon finely chopped 

J teaspoon pepper parsley 

Few grains cayenne 

Mix ingredients in order given and beat thoroughly. 
Shape, dip in crumbs, egg and crumbs again. Fry in 
deep fat, and drain on brown paper. 

LETTUCE AND CUCUMBEE SALAD. 

Wash, drain and dry one head lettuce. Arrange in 
salad bowl as near its original shape as possible. Pare 
and slice one cucumber and place slices between lettuce 
leaves. Pour over French Dressing. 



lOO What to Have for Dinner. 

LEMON FILLING. 

1:^ cups sugar 1 lemon, grated rind and 

3 tablespoons flour juice 

Yolks 3 eggs 1 cup cold water 

Few grains salt 

Mix sugar, flour, lemon rind and juice and yolks of 
eggs. Add cold water and salt and cook thirty minutes 
over hot water and cool. 

MEEINGUB. 

Whites 3 eggs 8 tablespoons powdered 

■J teaspoon vanilla sugar 

Beat whites of eggs until stiff and add one-half the 
sugar, gradually, while beating vigorously; cut and 
fold in remaining sugiar.and vanilla. 

LEMON MERINGUE PIE. 

EoU plain paste to one-fourth inch in thickness. 
Cover an inverted, deep pie plate with paste, prick with 
a fork, and bake on a tin sheet in a moderate oven. Slip 
from plate, fill, cover top with meringue and bake eight 
minutes in a moderate oven. 



Dinners for Occasions. loi 

PART II. 
DINNEES FOR OCCASIONS. 



THANKSGIVING DINNEES. 



MENU NO. I. 

(New England.) 

Our rural ancestors, with little blest. 
Patient of labor when the end was rest, 
Indulg'd the day thai hous'd their annual grain. 
With feasts and offerings and a thankful strain. 

— Pope. 

Oyster Stew. Celery. Oyster Crackers. 

EoAST Stuj?fed Turkey, Brown Gravy. 

Cranberry Moulds. 

Oak Hill Sweet Potatoes. 

Turnips and Carrots in White Sauce. 

Boiled Onions. 

Chicken Pie. 

Mince Pie. Squash Patties. 

Fruit Pudding, Brandy Sauce 

Assorted Nuts. Eaisins. 

Cafe Noir. 



I02 What to Have for Dinner. 

OYSTEE STEW. 

1 quart oysters 1 blade mace 

1 cup water ^ cup butter 

3 cups milk -J tablespoon salt 

■J teaspoon pepper 

Clean oysters by placing in a colander and pouring 
over cold water. Carefully pick over oysters, reserve 
liquor and heat to boiling point; strain through double 
cheese cloth, add oysters and cook until oysters are 
plump and edges begin to curl. Eemove oysters with 
skimmer and put in tureen with butter, salt and pepper. 
Add oyster liquor, strained a second time, and milk 
which has been scalded with mace, then mace re- 
moved. Serve with oyster crackers. 

EOAST TUEKBY. 

Dress, clean, stuff and truss a turkey and rub over 
with salt. Place on back on rack in dripping pan and 
spread breast, legs and wings with one-fourth cup butter 
rubbed until creamy and mixed with one-fourth cup 
flour. Dredge bottom of pan with flour. Place in hot 
oven, and when surface is browned reduce heat and baste . 
with fat in pan. Turn bird on breast to complete the 
roasting, and baste every fifteen minutes with one-half 
cup butter, dissolved in two cups boiling water ; and after 
this is used, with fat in pan. 

STUFFING. 

3^ cups stale bread | teaspoon pepper 

1 cup boiling water 2 teaspoons poultry season- 

^ cup butter ing 

1 teaspoon salt ^ cup finely chopped celery 



Dinners for Occasions. 103 

Pour boiling water over bread and let stand fifteen 
minutes. Put in cheese cloth, and press out all water 
that is possible. Add butter, seasonings and celery. 

BROWN" GRAVY. 

Pour off liquid in pan in which turkey has been 
roasted. From liquid remove four tablespoons fat; re- 
turn to roasting pan and brown with four tablespoons 
flour ; pour on, gradually, while stirring constantly, two 
cups stock in which giblets, neck, and tips of wings 
have been cooked. Cook five minutes, season with salt 
and pepper, and strain. 

CRAKBERRY MOULDS. 

1 quart cranberries 1 cup boiling water 

2 cups sugar 

Pick over and wash cranberries. Put in stew pan, 
add sugar and water, bring to boiling point and let boil 
fifteen minutes. Rub through a sieve and turn into 
small cordial glasses. Chill and remove from moulds. 

OAK HILL SWEET POTATOES. 

Select sweet potatoes of medium size. Wash, pare and 
parboil, eight minutes. Drain and place in pan in 
which turkey is roasting; bake until soft, basting with 
fat in pan when basting meat. The time required for 
baking will be about thirty-five minutes. 

TURNIPS AND CARROTS IN WHITE SAUCE. 

Wash, pare and cut turnips in one-half inch cubes; 
there should be one and one-half cups. Wash and scrape 
carrots, and cut in one-half inch cubes ; there should be 



I04 What to Have for Dinner. 

one cup. Cook in boiling salted water until soft. Drain 
and add one cup White Sauce. 

WHITE SAUCE. 

2J tablespoons butter 1 cup milk 

3 tablespoons flour ^ teaspoon salt 

^ teaspoon pepper 

Melt butter, add flour, and pour on, gradually, while 
stirring constantly, hot milk. Add seasonings, bring to 
boiling point and beat until smooth and glossy. 

BOILED ONIOISrS. 

Remove skins from ten medium-sized onions, cover 
with boiling water, and let boil ten minutes; drain, 
again cover with boiling salted water and cook until ten- 
der. Drain, add two tablespoons butter, and sprinkle 
with salt. 

CHICKEN PIE. 

Dress, clean and cut up two fowls in pieces foi 
serving. Put in stew pan, cover with boiling water, 
and cook until chicken is tender, adding one teaspoon 
salt, and one-eighth teaspoon pepper when chicken is 
half cooked. Eemove chicken, and strain stock. Skim 
off fat and reduce stock to three and one-half cups. 
Melt four tablespoons butter, add one-third cup flour, 
and pour on gradually, while stirring constantly, re- 
duced stock. Eemove larger bones from fowls and add 
meat to gravy, allowing it to stand several hours that 
chicken may absorb as much gravy as possible. Turn 
in large pudding dish, and cover with plain paste in 
which several incisions have been made that there may 
be an outlet for escape of steam and gases. Wet edge 



Dinners for Occasions. 105 

of crust and put around a three-fourths inch rim, hav- 
ing rim come close to edge. Decorate top with paste 
cut in fancy shapes. Bake in hot oven forty-five min- 
utes. 

Chicken pie may be made a day in advance and re- 
heated for serving. Many prefer a top made of puff 
paste, in which case it is best to bake top separately. 

PLAIN PASTE. 

i cup lard 1^ cups flour 

3 tablespoons butter ^ teaspoon salt 

Cold water 

Mix and sift flour and salt and work in lard, using 
tips of fingers. Add cold water to form a stiff dough. 
Turn on a slightly floured board, knead slightly, pat 
and roll out, having dough twice as long as it is wide. 
Form butter into a pat and place on centue of lower 
half of dough. Fold upper half over lower half and 
press edges firmly together. Fold one side over enclosed 
butter, the other side under enclosed butter; and press 
edges firmly together. Turn half way round, pat, 
and roll out. Fold from ends towards centre, 
making three layers. Eepeat until paste has had four 
turns, then fold from ends to centre and double, making 
four layers when paste is ready for use. 

PUFF PASTE. 

Wash one-half pound butter. Work one tablespoon 
of it into one-half pound fiour, using the tips of the 
fingers; then add cold water to form a stiff dough. 
Turn on a floured board, knead slightly, cover and let 
stand five minutes. Pat, roll out, fold in butter, folding 



io6 What to Have for Dinner. 

first from the ends and then from the sides, cover and 
again let stand five minutes. Pat, roll, and fold to make 
three layers. EoU and fold five times for patties, pie 
crust, fancy desserts, etc. Seven times for vol-au- 
v'ents, allowing it to stand one minute between each 
rolling and folding. 

MINGE MEAT. 

5 cups chopped cooked beef Juice 2 lemons 

2 J cups chopped beef suet Juice 2 oranges 
7^ cups chopped apples 1 tablespoon mace 

3 cups cider 2 tablespoons cinnamon 
^ cup vinegar 2 tablespoons cloves 

1 cup molasses 2 tablespoons allspice 

5 cups sugar 2 nutmegs, grated 

I lb. citron, finely chopped 2 tablespoons lemon extract 

2^ cups whole seedless 1 teaspoon almond extract 

raisins 1 cup brandy 

1^ cups raisins, finely Salt 

chopped 

Liquor in which meat was cooked 

Mix ingredients in order given, and season with salt. 
Eeduce liquor in which meat was cooked to three cups. 
Add to mixture, bring to boiling point and let simmer 
one and one-half hours. 

MINCE PIE. 

Line a perforated tin pie plate with plain paste and 
fill with mince meat. Wet edges of under crust with 
cold water, cover with upper crust of puff paste and 
press edges together. Ornament with a rim and per- 
forate upper crust that steam may escape. 



Dinners for Occasions. 107 

SQUASH PATTIES. 

1 cup steamed and sifted 1 teaspoon nutmeg 
squash | teaspoon ginger 

1 cup sugar f teaspoon salt 

3 eggs, slightly beaten ^ teaspoon mace 
1 teaspoon cinnamon 4 tablespoons brandy 

1 cup heavy cream 

Line fluted patty pans with plain paste, brush paste 
with white of egg, sprinkle with stale bread crumbs and 
fill pans two-thirds full of squash mixture. Bake in 
quick oven at first, and then decrease heat and complete 
the cooking. 

Squash patties, when eaten at their best, should be 
freshly baked and served warm. 

FEUIT PUDDING. 

i lb. suet i teaspoon nutmeg 

■| lb. figs i teaspoon clove 

2^ cups stale bread crumbs ^ cup English walnut 

f cup of milk meats 

3 eggs ^ cup raisins, seeded and 

1 cup brown sugar cut in pieces 

1 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons flour 

■J teaspoon cinnamon 2^ teaspoons baking powder 

Chop suet and work until creamy, using the hand. 
Chop figs and work into the suet. Soak bread crumbs 
in milk, add eggs well beaten, sugar, salt and spices. 
Combine mixtures, and add raisins mixed with nut 
meats broken in pieces and dredged with flour mixed 
with baking powder. Turn into a buttered mould, 
cover and steam three hours. Serve with Brandy 
Sauce. 



io8 What to Have for Dinner. 
BRANDY SAUCE. 

]^ cups brown sugar ^ cup heavy cream 

^ cup water 2 tablespoons brandy 

Yolks 2 eggs Few grains salt 

Put sugar and water in sauce pan, bring to boiling 
point, and let boil until syrup will thread. Pour syrup 
gradually on yolks of eggs beaten until thick and lemon 
colored. Beat until mixture is cool and thick, then 
add cream, beaten until stifE, brandy and salt. 



Dinners for Occasions. 109 

THANKSGIVING DINNBES. 

MENU NO. II. 

"And if I send them away fasting to their own 
houses, they will faint by the way: for divers of them 
came from far." 

Clam Soup. Browned Crackers. 

Halibut Rolls, Sauce Tartare. Dressed Cucumbers. 

EoAST Turkey with Chestnut Stuffing. 

Giblet Gravy. 

Maitre d'Hotel Potatoes. 

Mashed Winter Squash. Onions in Cream. 

Cranberry Punch. 

Pear Salad. French Dressing. 

Thanksgiving Pudding. Hard Sauce. 

Vanilla Ice CriSam. Hot Chocolate Sauce. 

Sponge Cake. 

Assorted Nuts. Fruit. 

Cafe Note. 



1 lo What to Have for Dinner. 

CLAM SOUP. 

3 quarts clams (in shell) 2 crackers rolled 
1^ cups water Salt 

2 tablespoons butter Pepper 

1 quart scalded milk 

Wash clams thoroughly, scrubbing with, a brush; put 
into kettle, add one-fourth cup water, cover closely and 
let steam until shells open slightly. Eemove clams from 
shell and separate soft from hard, parts. Chop hard 
parts, add clam liquor, and one cup water; bring slowly 
to boiling point and let simmer forty-five minutes. 
Strain through double thickness of cheese cloth, add but- 
ter, soft part of clams, cracker dust and seasonings. 
Heat very hot, but do not allow mixture to reach boiling 
point. Turn into tureen and add milk. Serve im- 
mediately or soiip will have a curdled appearance. 

BEOWNED CEACKERS. 
(See p. 51, under Family Dinners, Menu No. XII.) 

HALIBUT ROLLS. 

Clean a slice of halibut weighing one and one-half 
pounds, remove bone and skin, and cut fish in eight 
fillets. Sprinkle with salt and pepper and dip each 
fillet, separately, in melted butter; then roll and fasten 
with skewers. Dip in egg and crumbs, fry seven min- 
utes in deep fat and drain on brown paper. Serve with 
Sauce Tartare. (See p. 17, under Family Dinners, 
Menu No. IV.) 

ROAST TURKEY. 

Dress, clean, stuff and truss a turkey. Plunge into 
boiling water and let stand five minutes ; this is known 



Dinners for Occasions. iii 

as plumping. Place in a steamer and let steam two 
hours. Eemove to dripping pan and roast same as 
Eoast Turkey. (See p. 102, under New England 
Thanksgiving Dinner.) 
Serve with Giblet Gravy. 

STUFFING. 

Shell chestnuts and cook in boiling salted water until 
soft; drain and force through a potato ricer; there 
should be one and one-half cups. Add one and one- 
half cups cracker crumbs, moisten with cream and sea- 
ison with salt and poultry seasoning. 

GIBLET GEAVY. 

Make Brown Gravy (see p. 103, under New England 
Thanksgiving Dinner) and add turkey giblets (heart, 
liver and gizzard) finely chopped. 

MAITEE D'HOTEL POTATOES. 

Wash and pare potatoes and cut in one-half inch cubes 
or fancy shapes; there should be two cups. Cook in 
boiling salted water until soft, drain, and add Maitre 
d'Hotel Butter. 

Serve very hot. 

MAITEE D'HOTEL BUTTEE. 
(See p. 19, under Family Dinners, Menu No. IV.) 

MASHED WINTEE SQUASH. 

Cut squash in pieces, remove seeds and stringy por- 
tion ; put in a strainer and cook over boiling water until 



112 What to Have for Dinner. 

soft. Eemove from strainer, scrape out cooked part 
from shell, mash, and season with butter, salt and 
pepper. 

ONIONS IN CEEAM. 

. Eemove skins from twelve medium-sized onions and 
cook one hour, or until soft, in boiling salted water to 
cover, changing the water after the first half hour of 
the cooking. Drain and add one tablespoon butter, one- 
half teaspoon salt and one-half cup cream. 

CEANBBEEY PUNCH. 

3 cups cranberries 2 cups boiling water 

^ cup raisins IJ cups sugar 

3 tablespoons lemon juice 

Eemove seeds from raisins, cover with boiling water 
and let cook one-half hour. Drain, reserve liquor and 
add to cranberries. Cook eight minutes and force 
through a sieve. Add sugar and lemon juice, and freeze 
to a mush, using equal parts of finely crushed ice and 
salt. 

Serve in punch glasses and garnish top of each with 
three or four cooked raisins. 

PEAE SALAD. 

Select medium-sized pears, allowing one for each per- 
son, wipe and pare. Cut in thin slices crosswise, and 
arrange in original shapes. Place on lettuce leaves and 
serve with French Dressing. (See p. 6, under Family 
Dinners, Menu No. I.) 



Dinners for Occasions. 113 

THANKSGIVmG PUDDTFG. 

3^ cups milk ^ grated nutmeg 

1 J cups rolled crackers ^ teaspoon cinnamon 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon salt 

J cup melted butter 1 cup raisins, seeded 

5 eggs J cup citron, finely cut 

^ cup cream J cup currants 

Scald milk, pour over crackers and let stand one 
hour. Add sugar, butter, eggs, well beaten, cream, 
spices, and fruits. Turn into a buttered mould, set in 
pan of hot water, and bake in a slow oven three hours, 
stirring after the first half hour of the cooking to pre- 
vent fruit from settling. Remove .from mould and 
serve with Hard Sauce. This pudding may be baked 
the day before it is needed and reheated for serving. If 
a convenient sized mould is not at hand, a deep bread 
pan will serve as a desirable substitute. 

HAED SAUCE. 
^ cup butter 3 tablespoons milk or 

1 cup powdered sugar cream 

J teaspoon vanilla 
Cream the butter, add sugar gradually, continuing the 
beating; then milk, drop by drop. Beat until very 
light and add flavoring. 

VANILLA ICE CEEAM, 
HOT CHOCOLATE SAUCE. 
1^ pints heavy cream 1 cup sugar 

2 cups milk 2 tablespoons vaniUa 

Mix ingredients and freeze. Serve with Hot Choco- 
late Sauce. (See p. 72, under Family Dinners, Menu 
No. XVII.) 



114 What to Have for Dinner. 
SPONGE CAKE. 

Yolks 6 eggs Whites 6 eggs 

]f cups powdered sugar 1 cup flour 

rVuiee of ^ lemon 1 teaspoon baking powder 

Grated rind of ^ lemon ^ teaspoon salt 

Beat yolks of eggs until thick and lemon colored and 
add sugar gradually, while continuing the beating: 
then add juice and rind of lemon. Beat whites of eggs 
until stiff and dry and add to fruit mixture; then cut 
and fold in flour mixed and sifted with salt and baking 
powder. Bake in an unbuttered pan in a slow oven, 
one hour. 



Dinners for Occasions. 115 

CHRISTMAS DINNERS. 
MENU NO. I. 

"There never was such a goose." Boh said he didn't 
believe there ever was such a goose cooked. Its tender- 
ness and flavor, size and cheapness, were the themes of 
universal admiration. Ehed out by apple sauce and 
mashed potatoes, it was a sufficient dinner for the whole 
family. * * * "qj^^ a wonderful pudding!" Bob 
(Jratchit said, and calmly, too, that he regarded it as the 
greatest success achieved by Mrs. Cratchit since their 
marriage. * * * Then Bob proposed "A Merry 
Christmas to us all, my dears. God bless us!" which all 
the family re-echoed. "God bless us every one," said 
Tiny Tim, the last of all. — From Dickens' CnRisTMis 
Carol. 

Celery Consomme. Dinner Rolls. 

Olives. Salted Almonds. 

Halibut Timbales, Shrimp Sauce. 

Roast Goose, Chestnut Stuffing. 

Apples eii Surprise. 

Mashed Potatoes. Creamed Cauliflower. 

Christmas Salad. 

Plum Pudding. Foamy Brandy Sauce. 

Bonbons. 

Cream Cheese. Water Thins, 

Cafe Noih. 



ii6 What to Have for Dinner. 

CELERY CONSOMMfi. 

Blanch the feet of two chickens and put in a soup 
kettle with necks, gizzards, livers and tips of wings. 
Add one pound knuckle of veal, cut in small pieces, four 
thin slices lean bacon and two quarts cold water. Bring 
slowly to boiling point and let simmer two hours ; then 
add one-half cup carrot, cut in cubes, one-half cup onion 
cut in slices, one-fourth cup turnip cut in cubes, twelve 
peppercorns, three cloves and one tablespoon salt. Again 
bring to boiling point and let simmer four hours. 
Strain, cool, remove fat, and clear. Wash, scrape and 
cut celery in very thin slices. There should be one-half 
cup. Cook in a small quantity of stock until soft. 
Drain, and add to hot consomme. 

DINNER ROLLS. 

1 cup scalded milk i teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons butter f yeast cake, dissolved in 
1 tablespoon sugar J cup lukewarm water 

Flour 

Add butter, sugar and salt to milk ; when lukewarm, 
add dissolved yeast cake and one and one-half cups ilour. 
Beat thoroughly, cover and let rise until light. Cut 
down and add enough flour to knead. About one and 
one-fourth cups will be required. Let rise again, toss 
on floured board, shape in small biscuits, cover with a 
cloth and pan and when well puffed make a deep 
crease through centre of each biscuit with the handle 
of a wooden spoon. Press edges together, place closely 
in a buttered pan, cover, let rise, and bake twelve to fif- 
teen minutes in a hot oven. 



Dinners for Occasions. 117 

HALIBUT TIMBALES. 

1 lb. raw halibut ^ teaspoon pepper 

1 cup soft bread crumbs Few grains cayenne 

1 cup cream Pew drops onion juice 

1 teaspoon salt Whites 4 eggs 

Wipe fish and remove skin and bones; there should 
be one pound fish meat. Chop very finely, then rub 
through a puree strainer. Cook bread crumbs with 
cream, to form a smooth paste, and add gradually to 
fish, then add feeasonings. Beat whites of eggs until 
stiff and dry, and cut and fold into mixture. Turn 
into slightly buttered individual moulds, set in pan of 
hot water, cover with buttered paper, and bake until 
firm. Eemove from moulds to hot serving dish and 
pour around Shrimp Sauce. 

SHRIMP SAUCE. 

i cup butter ^ teaspoon pepper 

3 tablespoons flour 2 tablespoons Anchovy es- 

IJ cups boiling water sence 

^ teaspoon salt 1 cup shrimps 

Melt one-half the butter, add flour, and pour on 
gradually, while stirring constantly, water. Bring to 
boiling point and let boil five minutes. Add seasonings, 
shrimps broken in pieces, and remaining butter, bit by 
bit 

EOAST GOOSE, CHESTNUT STUFFING. 

Singe, wash, clean, stuff and truss a young goose. 
Sprinkle with salt and pepper, and lay four strips of 
fat salt pork over breast. Put on rack in dripping pan, 



ii8 What to Have for Dinner. 

and bake in a hot oven, two hours, basting every fifteen 
minutes vrith fat in pan. Eemove pork, after one and 
one-half hours of the cooking. Remove to hot serving 
dish and garnish with parsley and strings of holly ber- 
ries. 

CHESTNUT STUFFING. 

Cook one-half tablespoon finely chopped shallot 
with three tablespoons butter, five minutes. Add one- 
fourth pound sausage meat finely chopped, twelve fresh 
mushrooms finely chopped, and one-cup ^ chestnut puree. 
Cook seven minutes, season with salt and pepper and" 
add one-half tablespoon finely chopped parsley. Again 
bring to boiling point and add one-third cup soft bread 
crumbs and two dozen whole boiled French chestnuts. 
Cool before using for stuffing. 

STUFFED APPLES EN SURPEISE. 

Pare, core, and cut eight apples in eighths. Put in 
stew pan and add one cup sweet cider, one-half cup 
maple syrup, two slices of lemon, one-fourth teaspoon 
salt, one tablespoon butter, and a few gratings nutmeg. 
Cook until apples are soft, and rub through a sieve. 
Take a thick slice from the stem end of bright red 
apples and scoop out pulp, leaving apple cups. Fill 
cups thus made with apple sauce which has been cooled. 

MASHED POTATOES. 
(See p. 44, under Family Dinners, Menu No. X.) 

CREAMED CAULIFLOWER. 

Select a small, firm cauliflower. Remove leaves, cut 
off stalk, and soak one hour (head down) in cold water 



Dinners for Occasions. 119 

to cover. Cook (head up) twenty minutes or until soft, 
in boiling salted water. Drain, separate flowerets, and 
reheat in one and one-half cups White Sauce (see p. 14, 
under Family Dinners, Menu No. III.), and add one- 
fourth cup grated cheese. 

CHEISTMAS SALAD. 

Remove skins from Malaga grapes, cut in halves 
lengthwise and remove seeds. Add an equal quantity 
of English walnut meats, broken in pieces and one-half 
as much celery finely chopped. Moisten with French 
Dressing and fill small nests made of lettuce 
leaves. Trim saltines on ends so that when put 
together by fours they will make squares. Put 
four on each salad plate and tie in place with narrow 
red ribbon. Insert in each box thus made a portion 
of salad. Garnish with sprigs of holly, bright with red 
berries. 

CHEISTMAS PLUM PUDDING. 

•J lb. stale bread crumbs ^ cup finely chopped figs 

1 cup scalded milk -J cup finely cut citron 

§ cup sugar ^ lb. suet 

5 eggs i cup brandy 

1 cup raisins, seeded, cut -J grated nutmeg 

in pieces and floured f teaspoon cinnamon 

f cup currants -J teaspoon cloves 

^ cup English walnut i teaspoon mace 

meats, flnely chopped 1^ teaspoons salt 

Soak bread crumbs in milk one hour. Add sugar, 
beaten yolks of eggs, raisins, currants, flgs, nut meats, 
and citron. Chop suet and cream by using the hand. 
Add to first mixture, then add brandy, nutmeg, einna» 



I20 What to Have for Dinner. 

mon, cloveSj mace, salt and white of eggs beaten stiff. 
Turn into a buttered bomb-shaped mould and steam 
six hours. Garnish with holly, and send to the table 
surrounded with burning brandy. Serve with Foamy 
Brandy Sauce. 

FOAMY BRANDY SAUCE. 

■| cup butter Few grains salt 

1 cup powdered sugar ^ cup heavy cream, beaten 

Whites two eggs stiff 

2 tablespoons brandy 

Cream the butter and add sugar, gradually, continu- 
ing the beating. Put over hot water, add eggs beaten 
until stiff, and beat until well blended, using a wire 
whisk. Cool, and add brandy, salt and cream. 

SALTED ALMONDS. 

Blanch one-fourth pound almonds, and dry on a 
towel. Put one and one-half tablespoons, each, butter 
and lard, in a sauce pan, and when melted and well 
heated add almonds and fry until delicately browned, 
stirring constantly, that nuts may brown evenly. Ee- 
inove with a spoon or small skimmer, taking up as little 
fat as possible. Drain on brown paper, and sprinkle 
with salt. 



Dinners for Occasions. 121 

CHEISTMAS DINNEES. 

MENU NO. II. 

"Not what we give, hut what we share. 
For the gift without the giver is bare; 
Who feeds himself with his alms feeds three. 
Himself, his hungering neighbor, and Me." 

Clam and Tomato Consomme. Browned Soup Rings. 

Olives. Salted Pecans. 

Fillets of Sole. Musheoom Sauce. 

Roast Goose, Giblet Geavt. Frozen Apples. 

EiCED Potatoes. Glazed Silver Skins. 

Pimento Timbales. 

Chiffonade Salad. 

English Plum Pudding, Sherry Sauce. 

Coffee Ice Cream, Almond Cakes. 

Bonbons. 

Ckaokebs. Cheese. 

Caf:S Noie. 



122 What to Have for Dinner. 

CLAM AND TOMATO CONSOMMfi. 

To one quart consomme add two cups, each, clam 
water and canned tomatoes. Clear, and add soft part 
of clams. 

To obtain clam water: 

Wash thoroughly and scrub two quarts of clams, put 
in a granite stew pan, add one-half cup cold water, 
cover closely, place on front of range, and let cook until 
shells open. Eemove clams and strain liquor through 
double cheese cloth. 

CONSOMMfi. 

2 lbs. beef, poorer part of 8 tablespoons butter 

round 1 tablespoon salt 

2 lbs. knuckle of veal 13 peppercorns 

1 lb. marrow bone 3 cloves 

2 quarts cold water 2 sprigs thyme 
1 quart chicken stock 2 sprigs parsley 

i cup, each, carrot, onion 1 sprig marjoram 
and celery, cut in dice -J bay leaf 

Wipe meat, cut in one-half inch cubes and brown 
one-half in marrow from marrow bone; put remaining 
half in soup kettle with cold water, add veal cut in 
pieces, browned meat and bones. Let stand one-half 
hour, heat slowly to boiling point and let simmer four 
hours. Add chicken stock and simmer one hour. Cook 
vegetables in butter five minutes, add to soup with sea- 
sonings and simmer one and one-half hours. Strain, 
cool quickly, remove fat and clear. 

BEOWNED SOUP EINGS. 

Cut stale bread in one-third inch slices and shape with 
a round cutter. Spread with butter and with a smaller 



Dinners for Occasions. 1231 

round cutter shape into rings as wide as they are thick. 
Cut bread in one-third inch slices, spread with butter, 
and cut slices in sticks as wide as they are thick. Put 
in dripping pan, and bake until brown. Serve three 
sticks through each ring. 

FILLETS OF SOLE, MUSHROOM SAUCE. 

Cut two soles, flounders, or turbots in eight fillets. 
Put in shallow dish, sprinkle with salt and pepper, 
pour over one-third cup white wine, cover, and let stand 
one hour. Drain, dip each fillet separately in heavy 
cream, then in flour, fry in deep fat and drain. Ee- 
move to hot serving dish, cover with one-half pound 
mushroom caps, cleaned, peeled and sauted in butter 
and pour over all the following sauce: 

Put skin and bones removed from fish in stew pan, 
add five slices carrot, two slices onion, sprig of parsley, 
bit of bay leaf, and ten peppercorns. Cover with two 
cups cold water, bring to boiling point and let boil 
until stock is reduced to one cup ; then strain. Melt two 
tablespoons butter, add three tablespoons flour, and pour 
on gradually, fish stock, one-half cup heavy cream and 
yolks two eggs, slightly beaten. Season with salt, pepper 
and cayenne. 

EOAST GOOSE, GIBLET GRAVY. 

Singe, remove pin feathers, wash and scrub a young 
goose in hot soap suds ; then draw. Wash in cold water, 
wipe, stuff' and truss. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, 
and put breast down on rack in dripping pan. Put in a 
hot oven and bake two hours, basting every fifteen 
minutes with fat in pan. Place on back for the last 
fifteen minutes of the cooking. Remove to hot platter 
and garnish with watercress and bright red cranberries. 



124 What to Have for Dinner. 

STUFFING. 
Put eight mediiam-sized hot boiled potatoes through 
a potato ricer. Add one cup cream, one-third cup 
melted butter, and three eggs well beaten. Season with 
salt and pepper. 

GIBLET GEAVY. 

Cook giblets (heart, liver and gizzard) until tender. 

Drain, reserve stock, and finely chop giblets. Melt 
three tablespoons butter and cook until browned; add 
three and one-half tablespoons flour and continue the 
browning; then pour on gradually, while stirring con- 
stantly, reserved stock; there should be one and one- 
half cups. Add two tablespoons Madeira wine and sea- 
son with salt and pepper. 

FEOZBN APPLES. 

Wipe, pare, core and -cut ten apples in quarters. Put 
in a stew pan, sprinkle with sugar and add a few grains 
salt. Cover with boiling water and cook until apples 
are soft, when water should be nearly evaporated. Eub 
through a sieve, and add two-thirds cup cider, and two 
tablespoons lemon juice. Freeze to a mush and serve 
in cups made from bright red apples. 

GLAZED SILVEE SKINS. 

Peel small onions, and cook in boiling salted wdter 
until tender. Drain, and saute in butter, to which is 
added a small quantity of sugar, until delicately 
browned. 

PIMENTO TIMBALES. 

Line slightly buttered individual tin moulds with 
canned pimentoes and fill with chicken forcemeat. Set 



Dinners for Occasions. 125 

in pan of hot water, cover with buttered paper, and 
bake until firm. Remove from moulds, insert a small 
sprig of parsley in each and serve with Brown Mush- 
room Sauce. 

CHICKEN FORCEMEAT. 

Cook two tablespoons butter, one-fourth cup stale 
bread crumbs and two-thirds cup milk five minutes. 
Add one cup cooked chicken forced through a sieve and 
two eggs slightly beaten. Season with salt and pepper. 

BROWIsr MUSHROOM SAUCE. 

Remove caps from one-half pound fresh mushrooms, 
wipe and peel. Cut mushroom stems in pieces, cover 
with cold water, bring to boiling point and let boil 
twenty minutes. Drain and reserve liquor ; there should 
be one-half cup. Melt three tablespoons butter, add a 
few drops onion juice and cook until slightly browned, 
then add three and one-half tablespoons flour. Pour 
on gradually, while stirring constantly, one cup cream 
and mushroom liquor, add one tablespoon beef extract 
and season with salt and paprika. Cut mushroom caps 
in slices, saute in butter five minutes and add in sauce 
just before serving. 

CHIFFONADE SALAD. 

2 green peppers i bunch celery 

3 tomatoes 1 grape fruit 

1 head romaine 

Boil the peppers two minutes, cool, remove seeds and 
shred very finely, using scissors. Peel tomatoes and cut 
in quarters. Clean celery and cut in one-fourth inch 



126 What to Have for Dinner. 

pieces. Eemove peel and skin from grape fruit, leaving 
it in sections. Wash romaine and arrange in salad 
bowl. Arrange the peppers and tomatoes in sections, 
having them alternate. Place celery in centre and cover 
with sections of grape fruit. Pour over a French Dress- 
ing and serve. 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 

•| lb. stale bread crumbs 2 ozs. citron, finely cut 

1 cup scalded milk ^ lb. suet 

■J cup sugar -J nutmeg, grated 

Yolks 4 eggs f teaspoon cinnamon 

I lb. raisins, seeded and ^ teaspoon clove 

cut in pieces. | teaspoon mace 

i lb. currants 1^ teaspoons salt 

i lb. figs, finely chopped i cup brandy 
Whites 4 eggs 

i cup English walnut meats, broken in pieces 

Soak bread in hot milk and, when cool, add sugar 
and egg yolks beaten until thick and lemon colored. 
Then add raisins and currants dredged with two table- 
spoons flour, figs, citron and nut meats. Cream the 
suet, add spices and salt and thoroughly combine mix- 
ture ; then add brandy and whites of eggs beaten until 
stiff. Turn into a buttered mould, cover closely and 
steam six hours. Serve with Sherry Sauce. 

SHEERY SAUCE, 

Beat the yolks of three eggs slightly, using a silver 
fork. Add one-half cup sugar and one-half cup Sherry 
wine. Cook over hot water until mixture thickens, then 
pour gradually on the whites of three eggs, beaten until 
stiff, continuing the beating. 



Dinners for Occasions. 127 

COFFEE ICE CREAM. 

2 cups milk 1 egg 

i cup ground coffee i teaspoon salt 

li cups sugar 1 quart thin cream 

1 tablespoon flour 1 tablespoon vanilla 

Scald milk with coffee. Mix sugar, flour, salt and 
add egg slightly beaten, then pour on, gradually, hot 
mixture. Cook over hot water twenty minutes, stirring 
constantly at first and afterwards occasionally. Cool, 
add cream and flavoring, strain through double thick- 
ness of cheese cloth and freeze. 

ALMOND CAKES. 

I cup butter -J tablespoon clove 

1 egg J tablespoon grated nutmeg 

J cup blanched almonds Grated rind ^ lemon 

J cup sugar 2 tablespoons brandy 

■J tablespoon cinnamon 2 cups flour 

Cream the butter, add eggs well beaten, and almonds 
finely chopped; then add remaining ingredients. Toss 
on a floured board, and roll to one-fourth inch in thick- 
ness. Shape with a round cutter, first dipped in flour, 
and bake in a slow oven until delicately browned. 

SALTED PECANS. 

Buy pecan nut meats by the pound. Put one-fourth 
cup olive oil in a small sauce pan, and when heated put 
in nut meats and stir constantly until they are heated 
and crisp. Eemove with a spoon or small skimmer, to 
brown paper, taking up as little oil as possible, and 
sprinkle with salt; repeat until one-fourth pound are 
fried. 



128 What to Have for Dinner. 

It may be necessary to remove some of the salt by 
wiping nuts with a piece of cheese cloth. 

Pecan nut meats, having a dark skin, are somewhat 
difficult to fry, as the color does not determine when 
they are sufficiently cooked. There is great danger of 
allowing them to remain in the oil for too long a time. 



Dinners for Occasions. 129 



LENTEN DINNEES. 

MENU NO. I. 

"The turnpike road to people's hearts, I find 
Lies through their mouths, or I mistake mankind." 

Clam and Corn Soup. Bread Kings. 

Egg and Pimento Timbales. 

Baked Stuffed Haddock, Hollandaise Sauce. 

French Fried Potatoes. Boiled Brussels Sprouts. 

Apple and Chestnut Salad. 

Danish Custard. 

Crackers. Chbesh. 

Cafe Noie. 



130 What to Have for Dinner. 

CLAM AND COKN SOUP. 

1 can corn 2| tablespoons flour 

2 cups water i teaspoon salt 

1 slice onion Few grains pepper 

2 cups clam water Few grains cayenne 
2^ tablespoons butter 1 cup cream 

Popped corn 

Chop canned corn, add water and onion, bring to 
boiling point and let simmer twenty minutes; then rub 
through a sieve and add clam water. IVIelt butter, add 
flour and pour on, gradually, while stirring constantly, 
hot mixture. Add seasoning and, just before serving, 
cream. Garnish with popped corn. 

* To obtain clam tvater: 

Wash thoroughly and scrub two quarts clams. Put in 
kettle with three-fourths cup cold water, cover tightly, 
and steam until shells are well opened; then strain 
liquor. 

BEEAD KINGS. 

Cut stale bread in one-third inch slices. Shape with 
a circular cutter three inches in diameter. Remove 
centres with a smaller sized cutter, leaving rings, one- 
half inch wide. Butter slightly, place in dripping pan, 
and bake until delicately browned. Arrange in circular 
shape overlapping each othei", on a plate covered with 
a doiley. 

EGG AND PIMENTO TIMBALES. 

Line well buttered timbale or Dario moulds with 
canned pimentoes, fill with egg custard, place in pan 
of hot water, cover with buttered paper, and bake until 



Dinners for Occasions. 131 

firm. Turn on circular pieces of fried bread, and serve 
with Bread Sauce. 

EGG CUSTAED. 

Beat three eggs slightly, and add three-fourths cup 
milk. Season with one-half teaspoon salt, one-eighth 
teaspoon pepper, a few grains cayenne, and a few drops 
onion juice ; then strain. This recipe makes a sufficient 
quantity for six timbales. 

BEEAD SAUCE. 

IJ cups milk Few grains cayenne 

i cup fine stale bread ^ teaspoon salt 

crumbs 3 tablespoons butter 

1 onion -J cup coarse stale bread 
5 cloves crumbs 

Cook milk twenty-five minutes in double boiler with 
fine bread crumbs and onion stuck with cloves. Ee- 
move onion, add salt, cayenne and one-half the butter. 
Pour sauce around the timbales and sprinkle with the 
coarse crumbs browned in remaining butter. 

BAKED STUFFED HADDOCK. 

Clean and wipe a four-pound haddock, removing eyes, 
but leaving on head and tail. Eub over with salt in- 
side and out, stuff, and sew. Cut five diagonal gashes 
on each side of back bone, and insert narrow strips of 
fat salt pork, having gashes on one side come between 
gashes on other side. Shape with skewer in form of 
letter S and hold in shape with small twine. Arrange 
strips of fat salt pork on fish sheet, put fish on sheet 
in dripping pan, and bake in a hot oven one hour. 



132 What to Have for Dinner. 

basting with fat in pan, every eight minutes. Serve 
with Hollandaise Sauce. (See p. 89, under Family DiB^ 
ners, Menu No. XXI.) 

FISH STUFFING. 

1 cup bread crumbs -J teaspoon pepper 

4 tablespoons melted but- 1 teaspoon parsley, finely 

ter chopped 

^ teaspoon salt Few drops onion juice 

i cup boiling water 

Mix ingredients in order given. 

FRENCH FEIED POTATOES. 
(See p. 88, under Family Dinners, Menu No. XXI.) 

BOILED BRUSSELS SPROUTS. 

Pick over, remove wilted leaves, and soak in cold 
water twenty minutes. Drain, and cook twenty minutes 
or until tender in an uncovered kettle of boiling water 
to which has been added one-fourth teaspoon soda. 
Drain and add butter and salt to taste. 

APPLE AND CHESTNUT SALAD IN APPLE 
CUPS. 

Wipe and pare apples and cut in one-half inch cubes. 
Boil French chestnuts and break in pieces. Mix equal 
parts of apple cubes and chestnuts and miarinate with 
a French Dressing. Cut large selected bright red apples 
in halves, crosswise. Scoop out most of the pulp, leav- 
ing apple cups. Fill cups thus made with mixture, 
arrange on lettuce leaves and garnish with Mayonnaise 
Dressing. 



Dinners for Occasions. 133 

DANISH CUSTARD. 

§ cup sugar, caramelized 1 quart milk 
^ cup sugar -J teaspoon salt 

6 eggs 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Put two-thirds cup sugar in agate pudding dish, 
place on hot part of range and stir constantly until 
sugar is melted and a syrup of light brown color is 
formed; then set pan at once in larger pan of cold 
water to stop the cooking, and let stand about one min- 
ute, turning the pan to allow the caramel to coat sidet. 
as well as bottom. Beat eggs slightly, add plain sugar, 
milk, salt and vanilla and strain into pan lined with 
caramel. Set in pan of hot water and bake until firm, 
which may be determined by running a silver knife 
through custard. If knife comes out clean, custard is 
done. During the baking, do not allow the water sur- 
rounding the mould to reach the boiling point, or 
custard mil whey. Chill, and turn on a glass serving 
dish. 



134 What to Have for Dinner. 



LENTEN DINNERS. 

MENU NO. II. 

"That all-soul softening, overpowering hnell. 
The tocsin of the soul, the dinner hell." 

Smoked Salmon and Anchovy Canapes. • 

Tomato Bisque Soup. Buttered Ceoutons. 

Tartlets of Eggs with Cuekt, 

Boiled Cod, Venetian Sauce. 

Hot Potato Salad. Cauliflower au Geatin, 

Cheese Souffle. 

Chocolate Bavarian Cream. 

Cafe Noir. 



Dinners for Occasions. 135 

SMOKED SALMON AND ANCHOVY CANAPfiS. 

Cut stale bread in one-fourth inch slices, remove 
crusts and cut slices in fancy shapes — squares, rounds, or 
triangles — then saute in butter. Spread with anchovies 
pounded in a mortar and mixed with butter. Arrange 
flaked smoked salmon, whites of "hard-boiled" eggs 
finely chopped, and yolks of eggs forced through a 
puree strainer in fancy forms on canapes. Garnish with 
pimolas or olives stufEed with anchovies. 

TOMATO BISQUE SOUP. 

i can tomatoes Bit of bay leaf 

i onion (sliced) 1 teaspoon sugar 

4 cloves ^ teaspoon soda 

8 peppercorns 1 teaspoon salt 

I sprig parsley 3 tablespoons flour 

1 stalk celery 3 tablespoons butter 
1 quart milk 

Mix first seven ingredients, bring to boiling point, 
let simmer twenty minutes, then rub through a sieve. 
Add sugar, soda and salt. Melt butter, add flour, and 
pour on gradually, while stirring constantly, hot mix- 
ture. Add to scalded milk and serve immediately. 
Whipped Cream used as a garnish is an improvement to 
this soup. 

BUTTERED CEOtTTONS. 

Cut stale bread in one-third or one-half inch slices, 
and remove crusts. Spread sparingly with butter and 
cut in strips, one-third or one-half inch wide and cut 
strips in cubes. Put in pan, and bake until delicately 
browned. 



136 What to Have for Dinner. 

TAETLETS OF EGGS WITH CURRY. 

Separate the yolks from the whites of four "hard 
boiled" eggs. Cut the whites in small cubes and force 
the yolks through a coarse strainer. Cook two table- 
spoons butter with one-half tablespoon onion finely 
chopped, until yellow. Add one tablespoon cornstarch 
mixed with one teaspoon curry powder, one-half tea- 
spoon salt, and one-eighth teaspoon paprika. Pour on 
gradually, while stirring constantly, one and one-third 
cups scalded milk. Add whites of eggs and fill in- 
dividual pastry cases with mixture, and sprinkle with 
yolks of eggs. 

TO MAKE INDIVIDUAL PASTRY CASES. 

Roll plain paste to ojie-fourth inch in thickness and 
cut in circular pieces. Fit pieces on an inverted tin 
gem pan, press lightly, and bake in hot oven until 
delicately browned. 

BOILED COD. 

Wipe a thick piece of cod weighing four pounds, and 
boil in Court Bouillon (see p. 87, under Family Dinners, 
Menu 'No. XXI.) from thirty to forty minutes. Re- 
move to hot platter and garnish with parsley and slices 
of lemon. 

Serve with 

VENETIAN SAUCE. 

i cut butter 1 tablespoon parsley, finely 

4 tablespoons flour chopped 

2 cups boiling water 2 tablespoons pickles, finely 

Juice ^ lemon chopped 

i cup capers Salt 

Melt one-half the butter, add flour, and pour on grad- 



Dinners for Occasions. 137 

Tially, while stirring constantly, boiling water. Bring 
to boiling point and add seasonings and remaining but- 
ter, bit by bit. 

HOT POTATO SALAD. 

Wash and pare potatoes and cut into balls, using a 
French vegetable cutter ; there should be two cups. Cook 
in boiling salted water, until soft, drain, pour over dress- 
ing and sprinkle with two tablespoons chopped parsley. 

HOT POTATO SALAD DEESSING. 

■J teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons Tarragon vin- 
^ teaspoon pepper egar 

4 tablespoons olive oil 2 tablespoons chopped onion 

i cup celery, finely cut 1 tablespoon chopped pars- 

2 slices lemon ley 

1 tablespoon cider vinegar 

Mix ingredients, heat to boiling point, remove lemon 
and pour mixture ever potatoes. Serve at once. 

CEEAMED GAULIFLOWEE. 

Kemove leaves, cut off stalks and soak thirty minutes 
(head down) in cold water to cover. Cook (head up) 
in an uncovered kettle, until tender, in a large quan- 
tity of boiling salted water, to which has been added 
one-eighth teaspoon soda. Drain, separate flowerets, 
arrange in serving dish and pour over one and one-half 
cups 

WHITE SAUCE. 

3 tablespoons butter 1 slice onion 

^ tablespoons flour i teaspoon salt 

If cups scalded milk | teaspoon pepper 

Melt butter, add flour and pour on gradually, while* 



138 What to Have for Dinner. 

stirring constantly, milk scalded with onion (then onion 
removed). Bring to boiling point, and add seasonings. 

CAULIFLOWEE AU GEATIN. 

Prepare same as Creamed Cauliflower. Turn into a 
buttered shallow dish ; sprinkle with - buttered bread 
crumbs, and bake in a hot oven until crumbs are browned. 

CHEESE SOUFFLI:. 

3 tablespoons butter Few grains cayenne 

4 tablespoons flour ^ cup grated Old English 
f cup scalded milk cheese 

I teaspoon salt Yolks 4 eggs 

Whites 4 eggs 

Melt butter, add flour, and when well mixed pour on 
gradually the scalded milk. Bring to boiling point and 
add seasonings and cheese. Eemove from fire, and add 
egg yolks beaten until thick and lemon colored. Cool 
mixture and cut and fold in whites of eggs beaten until 
stiff and dry. Pour into a buttered baking dish and 
bake thirty to thirty-five minutes in a slow oven. Serve 
at once. 

CHOCOLATE BAVAEIAN CEEAM. 

1 tablespoon granulated 2 squares chocolate 

gelatine J cup hot water 

2 tablespoons cold water 1 cup heavy cream 
J cup scalded milk ^ teaspoon vanilla 

Few grains- salt 

Add gelatine to cold water. Melt chocolate in small 
sauce pan set in larger pan of boiling water. Add sugar 



Dinners for Occasions. 139 

and hot water and stir until smooth, then add gelatine. 
Add mixture to hot milk, strain into bowl, and set in 
pan of ice water. Beat until mixture begins to thicken, 
then add cream beaten until stifE, vanilla and salt. Turn 
into moulds and chill. 



140 What to Have for Dinner. 



EASTER DINNERS. 

MENU NO. I. 

"New occasions teach new duties. 
Time makes ancient good uncouth." 

Frozen Egg Nog in Egg Cups. 

PoTAGE d' Avignon. Bread Sticks. 

Celery. Olives. 

Sliced Cucumbers. 

Broiled Trout, MaItre d'Hotel Butter. 

BoucHEEs OF Lambs' Sweetbreads. 

Roast Spring Lamb, Mint Sauce. 

New Potatoes. Boiled Green Peas. 

Egg Plant au Gratin. 

QuAiL^ Epicurean Style. Dressed Lettuce. 

Orange Ice Cream, with Crushed Strawberries. 

Currant Wafers. 

Crackers. Cheese. 

Bonbons. 

Cafe Noir. 



Dinners for Occasions. 141 

FEOZEN EGG NOG IN EGG CUPS. 

Yolks 2 eggs 5 tablespoons brandy 

4 tablespoons sugar 1 cup milk 

i teaspoon salt Whites 2 eggs 

Beat yolks of eggs until thick and lemon colored, add 
sugar, gradually, continuing the beating, then add salt, 
brandy and milk. Beat whites of eggs until stiff, add to 
first mixture and freeze. Serve each portion on a small 
plate in a. case made from an egg shell, set in a case 
made from one-half the peel of a lemon cut on end, so as 
to make a firm base. Serve as the first course at dinner. 

POTAGE D'AVIGNON. 

1 cup celery, cut in small 2| cups calf's head stock 
pieces • 1 cup cooked calf's head 

§ cup leek, cut in small meat 

pieces -J cup cream \ 

4 tablespoons butter Yolks 2 eggs 

4 tablespoons flour Salt 

2J cups chicken stock Pepper 

Cook vegetables in butter until yellow, add flour and 
stir until slightly browned, then add stock gradually, 
while stirring constantly. Add meat, cream and yolks 
of eggB just before serving. 

BEEAD STICKS. 

4 tablespoons butter 1 cup scalded milk 

2 tablespoons sugar 1 yeast cake, dissolved in 
f teaspoon salt i cup lukewarm water 

3 cups flour 

Add butter, sugar and salt to scalded milk, and when 



142 What to Have for Dinner. 

lukewarm add yeast cake dissolved in lukewarm water 
and flour. Mix and knead thoroughly, cover, and let 
rise until mixture has doubled its bulk; cut down and 
shape into small balls ; then cover and let rise until balls 
are light. Shape balls into sticks ten inches long, by 
rolling on board where there is no flour, using the hands. 
Keep of uniform size and round at the ends, which may 
be accomplished by not allowing hand to extend over 
end of sticks. Place two inches apart on buttered tin 
sheet, cover, and again let rise. Bake twenty to twenty- 
five minutes in a moderate oven, if preferred crisp and 
dry; ten to twelve minutes in a hot oven, if liked soft 
inside. 

BROILED TROUT. 

Clean trout and wipe as dry as possible. Dip in melted 
butter, place in broiler and broil over a clear fire from 
eight to twelve minutes, according to size. Remove to 
hot serving dish, spread with Maitre d'Hotel Butter 
(see p. 19, under Family Dinners, Menu No. IV.), and 
garnish with watercress. 

BOUCHfiES OP LAMBS' SWEETBREADS. 

Cover twelve lambs' sweetbreads with salted water and 
let stand one hoi;r; then let simmer in same water ten 
minutes. Drain and plunge into cold water ; when cold, 
trim, add one and one-fourth cups white stock and let 
simmer forty-five minutes. Remove sweetbreads and cut 
in small cubes. Melt one and one-half tablespoons butter, 
add one and one-half tablespoons flour, and pour on, 
gradually, stock drained from sweetbreads. Bring to boil- 
ing point, add sweetbreads, and yolk of one egg, slightly 
beaten. Season with salt, pepper and lemon juice. Fill 
bouch^e cases with mixture. 



Dinners for Occasions. 143 

EOAST SPRING LAMB. 

Eemove caul, wipe meat, sprinkle with salt and place 
on rack in dripping pan, and dredge meat and bottom 
of pan with flour. Place in hot oven and baste every 
fifteen minutes after flour in pan is well browned. The 
time required for cooking will be from one and one- 
fourth to one and three-fourths hours. If the lamb is 
not fat, it is necessary to use one-fourth cup butter 
melted in three-fourths cup of boiling water for the bast- 
ing. Serve with 

MINT SAUCE. 

■J cup mint leaves ^ cup boiling water 

^ cup vinegar 1 tablespoon sugar 

Chop mint leaves and mix with remaining ingredients. 
Let stand on back of range one-half hour. 

BOILED NEW POTATOES. 

Select potatoes of uniform size. Wash and pare, or 
scrape, and soak in cold water, to cover, ten minutes. 
Cook in boiling salted water until soft, drain, remove 
to vegetable dish, pour over melted butter and sprinkle 
with finely chopped parsley. Avoid sending to table in 
a covered dish, as potatoes reabsorb moisture, and become 
soggy. 

BOILED GEEEN PEAS. 

Eemove peas from pods, pick over and wash in cold 
water, discarding undeveloped ones. Cover with boiling 
water, and cook until soft, adding salt the last fifteen 
minutes of cooking. There should be but little water to 
drain from peas when they are cooked Drain, and sea- 
son with butter and salt. 



144 What to Have for Dinner. 

EGG PLANT AU GKATIN. 

Eemove the inside from an egg plant, leaving a shell 
or case. Cut in one-third inch cubes, and cook in a small 
quantity of boiling water until soft; then drain. Cook 
two tablespoons butter with one small onion finely 
chopped until yellow ; add egg plant, and one tablespoon 
finely chopped parsley. Season with salt and pepper, re- 
fill egg plant shell, cover with buttered crumbs, and bake 
until crumbs are brown. 

DEESSED LETTUCE. 
(See p. 14, under Family Dinners, Menu No. III.) 

QUAIL, EPICUREAN STYLE. 

Singe and wipe quail, and with a sharp pointed knife, 
beginning at back of neck, make a cut through back- 
bone the entire length of bird. Lay open the birds, and 
remove contents from inside. Cut out rib bones on 
either side of backbone, remove breastbone, then cut 
through tendons at joints. Sprinkle with salt and 
pepper and saute in butter until well browned, turning 
often during the cooking. When birds are nearly done, 
add one cup rich, white stock and finish the cooking. 
Arrange on hot serving dish, thicken stock remaining in 
pan with one and one-half tablespoons each of butter 
and flour cooked together, and pour over birds. Serve 
with Dressed Lettuce. 

OEANGE ICE CREAM, 
WITH CRUSHED STRAWBERRIES. 

J pint heavy cream, 1 dozen oranges 

J pint milk Sugar 

1 box strawberries 



Dinners for Occasions. 145 

Mix cream and milk and add juice from oranges; 
then sweeten to taste. Freeze, mould, pack in salt and 
ice, and let stand two hours. Eemove hulls from berries 
and cut in halves crosswise. Put in earthen bowl and 
mash ; then sweeten to taste. I^et stand on back of range 
until heated slightly, Unmould cream and serve with 
crushed berries. 

CTJEEANT WAFEES. 

J- cup butter | cup flour 

i cup sugar -J teaspoon vanilla 

1 egg Currants 

Cream the butter and add sugar gradually, while con- 
tinuing the beating; then add egg, well beaten, flour 
and vanilla. Drop on a buttered sheet in very small 
portions, two inches apart. Spread thinly in circular 
shapes, using a case knife first dipped in oold water. 
Put three currants on each, and bake in a slow oven until 
delicately browned. 



146 What to Have for Dinner. 



EASTER DINNERS. 

MENU NO. II. 

"No splendor of service can compensate for inferior 
or badly cooked food." 

Chicken Soup. Bread Rings. 

Shad a la Delmonico, Veete Sauce. 

Cucumber Ribbons. 

Fillets of Chicken a la Poulettb. 

Sweet Potato Croquettes. Boiled Spinach. 

1 

Dressed Lettuce. Cheese Eggs. 

Lemon Ice. Petits Choux aux Fruits. 

Boiled Salted Almonds. 

Bonbons. 

Caeb Noir. 



Dinners for Occasions. 147 

CHICKEN SOUP. 
(See p. 74, under Family Dinners, Menu No. XVIII.) 

BREAD EINGS. 
(See p. 130, under Lenten Dinners, Menu No. I.) 

SHAD A LA DELMONICO. 

Split fish, clean, and place in a buttered dripping 
pan. Season with salt and pepper, sprinkle with two 
shallots, finely chopped, and pour over one-half cup white 
wine. Cover with buttered paper and bake twenty-five 
miDutes. Eemove to hot serving dish and pour around. 

VEETE SAUCE. 

Melt two tablespoons butter, add three tablespoons 
flour, and pour on, gradually, one cup white stock. Sea- 
son, with salt and pepper, and one-half tablespoon lemon 
juice. Color green, with equal parts of parsley and 
cooked spinach, finely chopped, pounded in a mortar, and 
forced through cheese cloth. 

CUCUMBEE EIBBONS. 

Cut a thick slice from both ends of cucumbers and 
pare; then cut in one-fourth inch slices. Cut slices 
round and round to form ribbons, using a small, sharp 
knife. Plunge into cold water and let stand one-half 
hour. Drain and pour over French Dressing. (See p. 
47, under Family Dinners, Menu No. XL) 

FILLETS OF CHICKEN 1 LA POULETTB. 

Remove breasts and second joints from two young 
chickens. Put in a stew pan, add two dozen very small 



148 What to Have for Dinner. 

young onions, cover with boiling water, and let cook until 
soft. Eemove chicken to hot serving dish and drain 
onions from stock; there should be one and one-half 
cups stock. Melt three tablespoons butter, add four 
tablespoons flour, and pour on, gradually, the hot stock. 
As soon as boiling point is reached, add one-half cup 
heavy cream, and yolks three eggs. Season with lemon 
juice, salt and pepper. Add onions and pour over 
chicken. 

SWEET POTATO CEOQUETTES. 

2 cups hot, riced, sweet i tablespoon salt 
potatoes Few grains cayenne 

3 tablespoons butter Yolk 1 egg 

2 tablespoons Sherry wine 

Cook potatoes and force through potato ricer. Add 
butter, salt, cayenne, yolk of egg and wine. Beat until 
very light, shape, dip in crumbs, egg, and crumbs again, 
and fry in deep fat. If potatoes are dry, more wine will 
be required. 

BOILED SPINACH WITH EGG GAENISH. 

Wash one-half peck spinach in several waters, dis- 
carding wilted leaves. Cook in an uncovered vessel in 
a large quantity of boiling water to which has been 
added one-half teaspoon, each, sugar and salt, and one- 
fourth teaspoon soda; drain and chop. Melt one-fourth 
cup butter, add spinach, and cook two minutes. Sprinkle 
with one tablespoon flour and pour over one-half cup 
chicken stock. Stir until thoroughly mixed and heated. 
Eemove to a hot platter and mould oval shaped, using 
back of tablespoon. Garnish with yolks of "hard boiled" 
eggs forced through a potato ricer and whites of "hard 
boiled" eggs cut in fancy shanes. 



Dinners for Occasions. 149 

DRESSED LETTUCE. 
xSee p. 14, under Family Dinners, Menu No. III.) 

CHEESE EGGS. 

ij cups grated cheese -J teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon flour Few grains cayenne 

Mix first three ingredients, and add whites of eggs, 
beaten untU stiff. Shape as small eggs, roll in very 
fine cracker crumbs, fry in deep fat and drain. Arrange 
on a folded napkin and pass with 

LEMON ICE. 

4 cups water | cup lemon juice 

2i cups sugar Juice 2 oranges 

Make a syrup by boiling water and sugar, twenty 
minutes. Add fruit juices, strain and freeze. Serve 
in frappe glasses. 

PETITS CHOUX AUX FEUITS. 

i cup butter ^ cup flour. 

■J cup boiling water 2 



Put butter and water in sauce pan, place on front of 
range, and as soon as boiling point is reached, add flour, 
all at once, and stir vigorously. Eemove from fire, and 
add unbeaten eggs, one at a time, beating vigorously 
between the addition of eggs. Drop mixture from tip of 
spoon on a buttered sheet, one and one-half inches apart, 
shaping with handle of spoon as nearly circular as pos- 
sible, having mixture slightly piled in centre. Bake in 
a hot oven, cool, split, fill and frost; 



150 What to Have for Dinner. 

FILLING. 

Heat one-half can shredded pineapple to the boiling 
point, and add one tablespoon cornstarch diluted with 
cold water, to form a smooth, thin paste. Again bring to 
boiling point, let boil three minutes and add a. few 
grains salt. 

FEOSTIISTG. 

Melt two squares chocolate in a small sauce pan placed 
over hot water. Add one teaspoon butter and three table- 
spoons boiling water. Cool slightly, and add confec- 
tioners' sugar to make of right consistency to spread. 
Flavor with one-fourth teaspoon vanilla. 

BOILED SALTED ALMONDS. 

Boil two ounces almonds in M'ater to cover, five min- 
utes. Drain, remove skins, and sprinkle sparingly with 
salt 



Dinners for Occasions. 151 



WAKM WEATHEE DINNEES. 

MENU NO. I. 

The pleasures of the table may be enjoyed every day, 
in every climate, at all ages, and by all conditions of 
men. — Beillat Savaein. 

Wateemelon with Sheeet Deessing. 

Clam Bouillon, Whipped Ckeam. Impeeial Ceusts. 

Fbied Chicken-, with Tomato Mayonnaise. 

Steamed New Potatoes. Boiled Green Coen. 

Asparagus Salad in Lemon Eings. 

Chocolate Peaes. 



152 What to Have for Dinner. 

WATEEMBLON WITH SHEEEY DEESSING. 

Cut centre of watermelon into three-fourths inch cubes 
and remove seeds. Pour over Sherry Dressing, put in 
an ice cream freezer, packed in ice and salt, and let stand 
to chill one hour. Arrange cubes on large green leaves 
placed on fancy plates, or, if no leaves are at hand, serve 
in champagne glasses. 

SHEEEY DEESSIISTG. 

J cup sugar 2 tablespoons Sloe gin ^ 

J cup Sherry wine Few grains salt 

Mix ingredients in order given, and let, stand until 
sugar is dissolved. 

CLAM BOUILLOF WITH WHIPPED CEEAM, 

2J cups cold water Salt 

4 quarts clams in shells Pepper. 
Whipped cream 
Wash and scrub clams with a brush, changing the 
water several times. Put in kettle, add water, cover 
tightly, bring gradually to boiling point, and steam until 
shells are opened. Strain liquor through cheese cloth, 
season and serve in bouillon cups with whipped cream, 
on top. 

IMPEEIAL CEUSTS. 

(See p. 74, under Family Dinners, Menu No. XVIII.) 

FEIED CHICKEN WITH TOMATO MAYON- 
NAISE. 

Dress, clean and cut up two chickens. Cut a three- 
inch cube of fat salt pork in strips, try out, and remove 



Dinners for Occasions. 153 

scraps. Sprinkle chicked vitli salt and pepper, dredge 
with flour, and saute in pork fat until tender anli well 
browTied, turning often. Eemove to hot serving dish, 
garnish with cress, and serve with Tomato Mayonnaise. 

TOMATO MAYOK]srAISE. 
■J cup Mayonnaise Dress- -J tablespoon each, capers, 

ing. . parsley, pickles and 

■J can tomatoes, olives, finely chopped 

Bring tomatoes to boiling point, and let simmer gen- 
tly until reduced to two tablespoons, then rub through 
a sieve and chill. Add to remaining ingredients. 

STEAMED NEW POTATOES. 
Select smooth medium-sized potatoes. Wash, scrape 
and drop into cold water. Drain, place in steamer, 
cover, and cook until soft. 

BOILED GEEEN CORN. 
Eemove husks and silk from corn. Cook fifteen to 
twenty minutes in equal parts of boiling water and 
milk. Skim milk may be used. This manner of cook- 
ing will keep the corn white. Serve in a folded nap' 
kin. 

ASPAEAGUS SALAD IN LEMON EINGS. 

Chill stalks of cooked asparagus and marinate with 
a French Dressing. Eemove a thick slice from both 
ends of a lemon. Cut in one-third inch slices and re- 
move pulp, leaving rings. Place three or four stalks 
asparagus in each ring. Arrange on lettuce leaves 
and pour over a little more of the dressing. 

Cream dressing served in small lettuce leaves riiay be 
used in place of French Dressing. 



154 What to Have for Dinner. 
CHOCOLATE PEARS. 

Pare four pears, cut in fourths lengthwise and saut6 
in butter until browned. Arrange in a serving dish, 
pour over the following sauce, and chill thoroughly. 

Cook two ounces sweet chocolate, one tablespoon 
sugar, and one and one-fourth cups cold milk, in double 
boiler, five minutes; then add one teaspoon arrowroot, 
mixed with one-fourth cup cream and a few grains salt 
and cook ten minutes, stirring constantly at first and 
occasionally afterwards. Melt one and one-half table- 
spoons butter, add four tablespoons powdered sugar, 
and cook, stirring constantly until well caramelized, 
when it will be of a dark brown color. Add to first 
mixture, flavor with one-half teaspoon vanilla, and 
strain over pears. 



Dinners for Occasions. 155 



WAEM WEATHER DINNEES. 

MENU NO. II. 

Any ono can dine, hut very few know how to dine 
so as to insure the greatest quantity of health and en- 
joyment. — Hayward. 

White Soup. Bread Sticks. 

Cold Boiled Halibut, Ttrolienne Sauce. 

Austrian Potatoes. 

Veal Olives. Green String Beans. 

Dressed Lettuce. Cheese Bread Wafers. 

Vanilla Ice Cream in Cantaloupe Cases. 

Oatmeal Snaps. 



156 What to Have for Dinner. 

WHITE SOUP. 

Kimckle of veal | tablespoon salt 

2 slices turnip 2 tablespoons farina 

1 slice carrot 2 quarts cold water 

■J tablespoon peppercorns Yolks 3 eggs 
1 onion, sliced White 1 egg 

2 cups cream 

Wipe veal, remove meat and cut in small pieces. Put 
meat and bone in soup kettle, add turnip, carrot, onion, 
salt, peppercorns, farina and cold water. Bring slowly 
to boiling point, and let simmer four hours ; then strain 
and remove fat. Add egg white to egg yolks, beat 
slightly, and add cream ; then add to soup. Heat nearly 
to boiling point and serve at once. 

BEEAD STICKS. 
(See p. 141, under Easter Dinners, Menu No. I.) 

COLD HALIBUT WITH SAUCE TYEOLIENNE. 

Clean a piece of halibut weighing two and one-half 
pounds. Steam or boil, remove outside skin and bones, 
chill and serve cold with 

SAUCE TYEOLIENNE. 

f cup Mayonnaise Dressing 1 tablespoon parsley, 
1 tablespoon capers, finely finely chopped 

chopped 1 gherkin, finely chopped 

2 tablespoons tomato puree 

Mix ingredients in order given. 

To obtain tomato puree, cook one-half can tomatoes 
until reduced to three tablespoons; then rub through a 
sieve. Chill before adding to Mayonnaise Dressing. 



Dinners for Occasions. 157 

VEAL OLIVES. 

1^ lbs. veal cut from leg' 1 teaspoon lemon juice 

3 crackers Few drops onion juice 

2 tablespoons butter 1 teaspoon salt 

1 egg ^ teaspoon pepper 
i teaspoon thyme Pew grains cayenne 

Order veal cut in very thin slices, wipe, remove bone, 
skin, and fat. Pound meat until one-fourth inch in 
thickness, trim off edges, and cut in strips, three by 
four inches;. then sprinkle with salt and pepper. Chop 
trimmings very fine, add crackers rolled, melted butter 
and seasonings. Moisten with egg slightly beaten, and 
water or stock if necessary. Spread strips with mix- 
ture, roll, and fasten with small wooden skewers. 
Dredge with flour and saute in butter. Put in stew 
pan, cover with thin white sauce and let simmer until 
tender. Eemove to finger-shaped pieces of toast, and 
strain over Thin White Sauce. 

THIN WHITE SAUCE. 

3 tablespoons butter 1^ cups scalded milk 

2 tablespoons flour -J teaspoon salt 

Few grains pepper 

Melt butter, add flour, and when well blended, pour 
on gradually, while stirring constantly, hot milk. Bring 
to boiling point, add seasonings, and beat until smooth 
and glossy. 

GEEBF STEING BEANS. 

(See p. 71, under Family Dinners. Menu No. XVII.) 



158 What to Have for Dinner. 

DEESSED LETTUCE. 
(See p. 14, under Family Dinners, Menu No. III.) 

CHEESE BEEAD WAFEES. 

Cut stale bread in one-fourth inch slices; remove 
crusts, and cut each slice in three finger-shaped pieces. 
Toast on both sides, arrange in dripping pan, sprinkle 
with grated cheese and bake until the cheese is melted. 

VANILLA ICE CEEAM IN CANTALOUPES. 

Wipe cantaloupes, cut in halves crosswise, and remove 
seeds and stringy portion. Arrange each half on green 
leaves on an ice cream plate and fill with Vanilla Ice 
Cream. 

VANILLA ICE CEEAM. 

(See page 113, under Thanksgiving Dinners, Menu 
No. II.) 

OATMEAL SNAPS. 

^ cup molasses -J cup flour 

i cup butter § cup sugar 

1^ cups rolled oats 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Heat molasses with butter to the boiling point, and 
add gradually, while stirring constantly, rolled oats 
and flour; then add sugar and vanilla. Drop from tip 
of spoon on a buttered baking sheet three inches apart. 
Bake in a slow oven, cool slightly, remove from pan, 
and shape in the form of calla lily blossoms. 



Dinners for Occasions. 159 



WAKM WEATHER DINNERS. 

MENU NO. III. 

We sit to chat, as well as eat. — Shakespeare. 

Chicken Soup. 

Creamed Sweetbreads. 

Salmon Loaf with Frozen Horseradish Sauce. 

MaItre d'H6tel Potatoes. Boiled Green Peas. 

Salad 1 la Flora, 

CuSTAED SoUFFLlg. FOAMT SaTJOE. 



i6o What to Have for Dinner. 

CHICKEN SOUP. 
(See p. 74, under Family Dinners, Menu JSfo. XVIII.) 

CREAMED SWEETBREADS. 

Parboil a sweetbread, cool and cut in one-half inch 
cubes. Sprinkle with salt, dredge sparingly with flour 
and saute in butter five minutes ; then drain. Melt tv^o 
tablespoons butter, add three tablespoons flour and pour 
on gradually, while stirring constantly, oUe-half cup 
each chicken stock and milk or cream. Season with 
salt and cayenne. Serve in pastry cases. 

This dish is greatly improved by the addition of one- 
third pound mushroom caps, cleaned, broken in pieces 
and sauted in butter. 

SALMON LOAF WITH FROZEN HORSERADISH 
SAUCE. 

1 can salmon. 1-J tablespoons melted 

J tablespoonful salt. butter 

1 tablespoon flour. | cup milk 

1 teaspoon mustard. 3 tablespoons vinegar 

Few grains cayenne | tablespoon granulated gela- 

1 egg. tine 

2 tablespoons cold water 

Remove salmon from can, rinse thoroughly with*hot 
water and separate in flakes. Mix salt, flour, mustard 
and cayenne; add egg, slightly beaten, butter, milk 
and vinegar. Cook over hot water until mixture thick- 
ens, stirring constantly at first and afterwards occasion- 
ally; then add gelatine soaked in cold water. Strain 
mixture and add to fish. Turn into a mould, chill and 
remove from mould. Arrange on lettuce leaves and 
serve with Frozen Horseradish Sauce. 



Dinners for Occasions. i6i 

FROZEN HORSERADISH SAUCE. 

1 tablespoon butter § cup heavy cream 

1 tablespoon flour | teaspoon salt 

i cup milk Few grains pepper 

■J cup chicken stock 2 tablespoons vinegar 

I cup grated horseradish root 

Melt butter, add flour, and pour on, gradually, while 
stirring constantly, milk and chicken stock. Cool, 
freeze and add cream beaten until stiff, salt, pepper, 
vinegar, and grated horseradish root. Continue freez- 
ing until of the consistency of a mush. 

MAITRE D'HOTEL POTATOES. 

(See p. Ill, under Thanksgiving Dinners, Menu No. 
II.) 

SALAD 1 LA FLORA. 

Remove stones from one can cherries, and cut cherries 
in quarters; mix with pulp from three oranges and 
sweeten to taste. Fill cups, made of bright red apples, 
with mixture, and arrange on lettuce leaves. Cover 
tops of cups with the following dressing: 

Beat the yolk of one egg until thick and lemon colored 
and add gradually, two-thirds cup confectioner's sugar, 
continuing the beating. Flavor with one-half teaspoon 
vanilla. 

CUSTARD SOUFFLfi. 

3 tablespoons butter Yolks 4 eggs 

i cup flour i cup sugar 

1^ cups scalded milk Whites 4 eggs 

Melt butter, add flour, and pour on gradually, while 
stirring constantly, scalded milk. Bring to boiling 



'i62 What to Have for Dinner. 

point and pour on to yolks of eggs, beaten until thick 
and lemon colored and mixed with sugar. Cool, and cut 
and fold in whites of eggs beaten until stifE and dry. 
Turn into buttered baking dish, and bake in a moderate 
oven from thirty to thirty-five minutes. Serve imme- 
diately with Foamy Sauce. 

FOAMY SAUCE. 

I cup butter 1 teaspoon vanilla 

1 cup powdered sugar Few grains salt 

Whites 2 eggs ^ cup heavy cream 

Cream butter and add sugar gradually, while con- 
tinuing the beating. Put over hot water and beat, using 
a wire whisk, while adding whites of eggs beaten until 
stifE. 

When sauce is of the consistency of heavy cream, re- 
move from fire and cool. Flavor and, just before serv- 
ing, add cream beaten until stiff. 



Dinners for Occasions. 163 



EMEEGENCY DINNERS. 

MENU NO. I. 

Small cheer and great welcome make a merry feast.-' 
Shakespeake. 

Emeegenct Soup. Choutons. 

Salmon Timbale, French Hollandaise Sauce. 

German Fried Potatoes. 

Creamed Peas. 

Dbesden Sandwiches. Wine Sauce. 

Caf:§ Noie. 



164 What to Have for Dinner. 

EMERGENCY SOUP. 

3 cups boiling w.ater | teaspoon salt 

2^ teaspoons beef extract Few grains pepper 

1^ tablespoons flour Few grains cayenne 

3 tablespoons milk | cup cream 

Dissolve beef extract in boiling water. Add milk, 
gradually, to flour to make a smooth, thin paste. Add 
to first mixture, stirring constantly until boiling point 
is reached; then add seasonings and cream. 

SALMON TIMBALES. 

I cup soft bread crumbs Few grains cayenne 
1 cup milk IJ cups flaked canned 

I teaspoon salt salmon 

Whites 5 eggs 

Eemove salmon from can, rinfee thoroughly with hot 
water and separate in small flakes. Soak bread crumbs 
in milk fifteen minutes, then cook over hot water and 
stir to form a smooth paste. Add salt, cayenne and 
salmon. Cut and fold in whites of eggs, beaten until 
stiff. Turn into slightly buttered mould set in pan of 
hot water, cover with buttered paper, and bake until 
firm ; the time required being about fifty minutes: Serve 
with French HoUandaise Sauce. 

PEENCH HOLLANDAISE SAUCE. 

•| cup butter ^ teaspoon salt 

Yolks 4 eggs Few grains cayenne 

f cup boiling water ^ tablespoon lemon juice 

Work butter until creamy and add egg yolks one at 
a time, lemon juice, salt and cayenne. Put in small 
sauce pan and place in larger sauce pan of hot water. 



Dinners for Occasions, 165 

Stir constantly until mixture thickens. Add water 
and beat until of a smooth consistency. 

CREAMED PEAS. 

Drain one can peas and rinse thoroughly with cold 
water. Add one cup white sauce and one-half teaspoon 
sugar. Bring to boiling point, and let stand in a warm 
place until serving time. 

GEEMAN PRIED POTATOES. 

Cut cold boiled potatoes in slices, strips or cubes. 
Fry in deep fat, drain on brown paper, and sprinkle 
with salt. 

GBRMAISr SANDWICHES WITH WINE SAUCE. 

1 egg 2 tablespoons sugar 

Yolks 2 eggs f cup milk 

i teaspoon salt Slices of stale bread 

Cut stale bread (preferably baker's) in one-fourth 
inch slices. Remove crusts and cut slices in halves 
crosswise. Beat egg and egg yolks slightly, add salt, 
sugar and milk; strain into a shallow dish. Soak bread 
in mixture until soft, then saute in butter. Spread one- 
half the pieces with apricot marmalade, cover with re-- 
maining pieces and serve with 

WINE SAUCE. 

Whites 2 eggs 1 tablespoon apricot mar- 

f cup powdered sugar malade 

i cup Sherry wine 
Beat the whites of eggs until stiff. Add sugar gradu- 
ally, continuing the beating, -then add the marmalade 
and Sherry wine. 



i66 What to Have for Dinner. 



EMEKGENCY DINNEES. 

MENU NO. II. 

Now, good digestion wait on appetite, and health on 
both ! — Shakespeare. 

Ckeam of Pea Soup. Ceo^tons. 

Swedish Meat Balls, Tomato Sauce. 

Curried Potatoes. Sauted Bananas. 

String Bean Salad. 

Neapolitan Baskets, Hot Chocolate Sauce. 



Dinners for Occasions. 167 

CEEAM OP PEA SOUP. 
1 can peas 3 tablespoons butter 

1 teaspoon sugar 2 tablespoons flour 

2 cups cold water 1 teaspoon salt 

2 slices onion -J teaspoon pepper 

2 cups milk -J cup cream 

Yolk 1 egg 
Drain peas and rinse thoroughly. Add sugar, onion, 
and cold water and let simmer fifteen minutes. Kub 
through a sieve, reheat, and thicken with butter and 
flour cooked together. Scald milk and add to mixture. 
Season with salt and pepper. Add cream and yolk of 
egg just before serving. If a simpler soup is desired 
the cream and egg yolk may be omitted. 



SWEDISH 


MEAT BALLS, 


1 lb. lean beef 


Yolks 2 eggs 


f cup soft bread crumbs 


Salt 


J cup milk 


Pepper 



Finely chop beef ; season highly with salt and pepper. 
Add bread crumbs soaked in milk, and yolks of eggs 
slightly beaten. Shape in small balls, and fry in deep 
fat. Serve with Tomato Sauce. 

TOMATO SAUCE. 
2 tablespoons butter 8 peppercorns 

1 slice onion J teaspoon salt 

1 clove 3 tablespoons flour 

1^ cups stewed and strained tomatoes 
Cook butter with seasonings until slightly browned, 
add flour, and when well browned, pour on, gradually, 
while stirring constantly, tomatoes. Bring to boiling 
point, strain, and reheat. 



1 68 What to Have for Dinner. 
CUKRIED POTATOES. 

Cook one-fourth cup butter with cue small onion, 
finely chopped, until yellow. Add three cups cold boiled 
potato cubes and cook until potatoes have absorbed but- 
ter; then add one-half tablespoon curry powder, three- 
fourths teaspoon salt, few grains pepper, few drops 
temon juice and one-half cup chicken stock. Cook until 
potatoes have absorbed stock. 

SATJTfiD BANANAS. 

Remove skins from bananas, and scrape to remove in- 
digestible fibre. Cut in slices, dip in flour, saute in 
butter, and drain on brown paper. 

BEAN SALAD. 

Remove string beans from can, put in strainer and 
pour over two quarts cold water. Drain and let stand 
exposed to the air fifteen minutes. Mix with French 
Dressing, arrange in salad bowl, sprinkle with finely 
chopped parsley and garnish with "hard boiled" eggs, 
cut in fancy shapes. 

NEAPOLITAN BASKETS, HOT CHOCOLATE 

SAUCE. 



Yolks 2 eggs Flour 

■| cup sugar f teaspoon baking powder 

IJ tablespoons cold water Few grains salt 
J tablespoon cornstarch Whites 2 eggs 
^ teaspoon vanilla 

Beat yolks of eggs until thick and lemon colored, and 
add sugar gradually, continuing the beating; then add 



Dinners for Occasions. 169 

■water. Put cornstarch in a cup and fill one-half full 
of flour. Mix and sift baking powder and salt with corn- 
starch and flour, and add to first mixture. When thor- 
oughly mixed add whites of eggs, beaten until stiff, and 
flavoring. Bake in buttered oblong iron gem pans 
twenty minutes. Remove from pan, and cool slightly. 
Scoop out centres, leaving cases. Fill with whipped 
cream, sweetened and flavored with vanilla, and serve 
with Hot Chocolate Sauce. 

HOT CHOCOLATE SAUCE. 

1 cup sugar Few grains cream of tartar 

^ cup water 1| squares chocolate 

^ teaspoon vanilla 

Boil sugar, water, and cream of tartar to the con- 
sistency of a syrup that will pour easily. Melt chocolate 
in a small sauce pan placed over hot water. Pour on, 
gradually, the hot syrup and add flavoring. 



170 What to Have for Dinner. 

PAET III. 
COMPANY AND FOEMAL DINNEKS. 



COMPANY DINNERS. 



MENU NO. I. 

There is an emancipation from the heart in genuine 
hospitality which cannot be described, but is immedi- 
ately felt, and puts the stranger at once at his ease. — • 
Washington Irving. 

Lobster Canapes. 

Parisienne Soup. Bread Sticks. 

Stueeed Smelts, Bernaise Sauce. 

Roast Saddle of Venison. Sauted Potato Balls. 

Broiled Tomatoes, Horseradish Hollandaise Sauce. 

Cherry Mint Sorbet. 

Pepper and Fruit Salad. Nut Bread Sandwiches. 

Rice Pudding with Compote of Oranges. 

Galettes. 

Stuffed Raisins. Bonbons. 

Crackers. Cheese. 

Caf^ Noib. 



Company and Formal Dinners. 171 

LOBSTER CANAPES. 

Pound lobster meat in a mortar and add an equal 
quantity of the yolks of 'Tiard boiled" eggs, mashed and 
moistened with melted butter. Season highly with salt, 
cayenne, and French mustard, and moisten with beef 
extract. Cut stale bread in slices and remove crusts. 
Cut slices in fancy shapes and saute in butter until 
delicately browned. Cool, spread with lobster mixture 
and garnish with rings cut from whites of "hard 
boiled" eggs, and finely chopped olives. 

PAEISIENNE SOUP. 

4 lbs. lean beef, cut from 2 tablespoons butter 

rotmd 1 tablespoon lean raw ham, 
2 lbs. marrow bone finely chopped 

2 quarts cold water % cup, each, carrot, turnip, 
1 can tomatoes onion and celery, cut in 

1 teaspoon peppercorns small pieces. 

1 tablespoon salt 2 sprigs parsley 
^ bay leaf 

Wipe meat and cut in inch cubes. Put one-half in 
kettle with marrow bone, water and tomatoes. Brown 
remaining half in hot frying pan with some of the mar- 
row from marrow bone, then turn into kettle. Heat 
slowly to boiling point, and let simmer five hours. Cook 
ham and vegetables with butter five minutes, then add to 
soup with peppercorns, salt, parsley and bay leaf. Cook 
one and one-half hours, strain, cool quickly, remove 
fat and clear. 

BEEAD STICKS. 

(See p. 141, under Easter Dinners, Menu No. I.) 



172 What to Have for Dinner. 

STUFFED SMELTS. 

Clean and wipe as dry as possible twelve selected 
smelts. Stuff with fish forcemeat and sprinkle with salt, 
pepper and onion juice. Place in a buttered dripping 
pan, cover with buttered paper, and bake eight minutes 
in a hot oven. Sprinkle with buttered crumbs, and bake 
until crumbs are brown. 

Fish Forcemeat. 

Finely chop one-third cup raw halibut, then pound 
in a mortar. Add, gradually, one-half the white of an 
egg and work until smooth, then add one-fourth cup 
heavy cream, gradually, continuing the working. Sea- 
son with salt, pepper and cayenne. 

BBENAISE SAUCE. 

Yolks 3 eggs i teaspoon salt 

4 tablespoons olive oil Few grains cayenne 

1 tablespoon hot water ^ tablespoon finely chopped 

1 tablespoon vinegar parsley 

1 teaspoon fresh Tarragon 

Beat yolks of eggs, slightly, and add, gradually, olive 
oil and hot water. When thoroughly mixed, set sauce 
pan in larger pan of hot water, and stir constantly until 
mixture thickens. Eemove from fire, and add remain- 
ing ingredients. 

EOAST SADDLE OF VENISON. 

Wipe meat, sprinkle with salt and pepper, place on 
rack in dripping pan, and dredge meat and bottom of 
pan with fiour. Put in pan one slice onion, one slice car- 



Company and Formal Dinners. 173 

rot, aad two stalks celery. Bake in hot oven fifty min- 
utes, basting every fifteen minutes. Serve with the fol- 
lowing sauce: 

To three tablespoons fat remaining in pan add three 
tablespoons flour, and pour on, gradually, one cup 
white stock. Bring to boiling point and add one-fourth 
cup Madeira wine, and one-fourth cup melted currant 
jelly ; strain and serve very hot. 

SAUTfiD POTATO BALLS. 
(See p. 35, under Family Dinners, Menu No. VIII.) 

BROILED TOMATOES, HOESEEADISH HOL- 
LANDAISE SAUCE. 

Pour boiling water over four tomatoes, let stand two 
minutes, then remove skins. Cut in halves crosswise, 
and cut a thin slice from rounding part of each half. 
Sprinkle with salt and pepper, brush over with melted 
butter, place in buttered broiler and broil over a clear 
fire six or eight minutes. Eemove to circular pieces of 
buttered toast, and put a spoonful of sauce on each slice. 

HOESEEADISH HOLLANDAISE SAUCE. 

•J cup butter -J teaspoon salt 

^ tablespoon vinegar 4 tablespoons grated horse- 

Yolks 3 eggs ^ radish root 

2 tablespoons heavy cream 

Wash butter and divide in three pieces. Put one 
piece in sauce pan, with vinegar, egg yolks and salt. 
Place sauce pan in larger one containing boiling water, 
and stir constantly until butter is melted; then add 
second piece of butter, and as mixture thickens, third 



174 What to Have for Dinner. 

piece. Eemove from fire, add horseradish root, and 
cream beaten until stiff. 

CHEEEY MINT SOEBET. 

2 cups boiling water f cap grape fruit juice 

i cup mint leaves ^ cup lemon juice 

1 cup sugar Few grains salt 

Bruise mint leaves, pour over boiling water, and let 
stand ten minutes. Add sugar, and as soon as sugar is 
dissolved, strain mixture. Cool, add grape fruit juice, 
lemon juice, and freeze. Serve in champagne glasses 
and garnish with mint cherries, and a sprig of fresh 
mint. 

PEPPEE AND FEUIT SALAD. 

Select an equal number of red and green peppers. 
If long, cut in halves crosswise ; if short, cut a slice from 
stem ends. Eemove seeds and arrange on a bed of water- 
cress, lettuce or chicory, having first a red and then a 
green pepper. Fill pepper cases with .grape fruit pulp, 
Malaga grapes, skinned and seeded, and English walnut 
meats broken in pieces, allowing twice as much grape 
fruit as grapes and nut meats. Moisten with Mayonnaise 
Dressing. Mask top of each with Mayonnaise Dressing 
and sprinkle green peppers with chopped green pepper 
and red peppers with chopped red pepper, and garnish 
with halves of English walnut meats. 

NUT BREAD SANDWICHES. 

1 cup scalded milk 1 yeast cake, dissolved in 

1 tablespoon butter ^ cup lukewarm water 

1 teaspoon salt -J cup white flour 

2 tablespoons molasses Entire wheat flour 

1 cup pecan nut meats, broken in pieces 



Company and Formal Dinners. 175 

Put butter, salt, and molasses in a large bowl without 
a lip, and pour on the scalded milk; when lukewarm, 
add dissolved yeast cake, white flour, two cups entire 
wheat flour and nuts. Mix and turn on a floured board, 
leaving a clean bowl; knead, adding more flour until 
mixture is smooth, elastic to touch, and bubbles may be 
seen under the surface. Eeturn to bowl, cover with a 
cloth and board or tin cover. Let rise until a little more 
than double its bulk, turn on a slightly floured board, 
and knead. Shape into a loaf, place in greased pan, hav- 
ing pan half full. Cover, let rise again to double its 
bulk, and bake in a moderate oven fifty to sixty minutes. 
Cut nut bread twenty-four hours old in very thin slices, 
and remove crusts. Spread one-half the slices sparingly 
with butter, cover the remaining pieces and cut in halves 
crosswise. 

eicp: pudding with compote of oranges. 

i cup rice Yolks 3 eggs 

I cup cold water f cup sugar 

II cups milk 1 pint heavy cream 

Few grains salt 

Wash and pick over rice, add cold water, and cook in 
double boiler thirty minutes. Drain, return to double 
boiler, add milk and cook until rice is tender; then rub 
through a sieve. Beat egg yolks, add sugar and salt 
and pour on, gradually, the hot rice. Cook until mix- 
tare thickens, cool and freeze. Fold in cream beaten 
until stiff, mould, pack in salt and ice, and let stand two 
hours. 

Peel oranges, cut in slices crosswise, remove seeds, 
and cook in a thick syrup flavored with lemon juice; 



176 What to Have for Dinner. 

then cool. Eemove pudding from mould and garnish 
with oranges. 

GALETTES. 

EoU puff paste as thin as possible. Cut in strips 
three and one-half inches long and one and one-half 
inches wide, and brush over with beaten white of egg. 
Sprinkle with cinnamon and granulated sugar, and bake 
in hot oven until delicately browned. 

STUFFED EAISINS. 
(See p. 53, under Family Dinners, Menu No. XII.) 



Company and Formal Dinners. 177 
COMPANY DINNEES. 

MENU NO. II. 

Sit down: 
At first and last the hearty welcome. — Shakespeare. 

l^iTTLE Neck Clams. Wafers, 

Victoria Soup. Dinner Eolls. 

Broiled Eoe, Cucumber Baskets. 

Oyster Corks, Veloutb Sauce. 

Fillet oe Beee 1 la Jardiniere. 

Potato Balls. 

French Peas. Glazed Carrots. 

EoASTED Wild Duck. Eomaine Salad. 

Moulded Cheese with Bar-le-duo Strawberries. 

Saltines. 

Strawberry Ice Cream with Brandied Pears. 

Pastry Nut Sticks. 

Salted Almonds. Bonbons. 

Caf^i Noie. 



178 What to Have for Dinner. 

LITTLE NECK CLAMS. 

Serve clams on deep halves of the shells, allowing six 
to each serve. Arrange on plates of crushed ice, with 
one-fourth of a lemon in the centre of each plate. 

VICTORIA SOUP. 

4-lh. fowl ^ teaspoon peppercorns 

Knuckle of veal -J tablespoon salt 

3 quart? cold water 1 tablespoon lean raw ham, 

1 onion, sliced finely chopped 

J cup carrot, sliced 4 tablespoons butter 

i bay leaf 8 tablespoons flour 

2 sprigs parsley 1 cup cream 

Yolks 2 eggs 

Wipe, clean and disjoint fowl; wipe veal, remove 
from bone and cut in small pieces. Put meat, bone and 
water in kettle, heat slowly to boiling point, skim and 
cook slowly four hours. Cook vegetables and ham in 
one tablespoon butter five minutes, add to soup with 
peppercorns and salt and cook one hour. Strain, cool, 
and remove fat. Eeheat three cups stock, thickening 
with remaining butter and flour cooked together, and 
just before serving, add cream and egg yolk. Garnish 
with Chicken Custard cut in dice. 

CHICKEN CUSTARD. 

i cup chicken stock ^ teaspoon celery salt 

1 egg, slightly beaten -J teaspoon paprika 

Salt i cup finely chopped cooked 

Pepper chicken 

Few drops Anchovy essence 

Force the finely chopped chicken through a puree 



Company and Formal Dinners. 179 

sieve, and add the stock, egg and seasonings. Turn 
mixture into a shallow pan to the depth of one-fourth 
inch. Bake in a pan of hot water until firm, cool, 
remove from mould, and cut in one-fourth inch cubes. 

DINNER ROLLS, 
(See p. 116, under Christmas Dinners, Menu No. I.) 

BROILED ROE. 

Wipe roe, sprinkle with salt and pepper and dip in 
melted butter. Place on a well-greased broiler, and 
broil over a clear fire, five minutes on each side. Re- 
move to a bed of watercress and spread with Maitre 
d'Hotel Butter. (See p. 19, under Family Dinners, 
Menu No. IV.) 

CUCUMBER BASKETS WITH SAUCE TARTARE. 

Select three long cucumbers of regular shape. Cut 
slice from both stem and blossom ends, pare and cut in 
halves crosswise. Cut two pieces from each section, 
leaving remaining pieces in shape of baskets with 
handles- Then scoop out pulp carefully. Arrange bas- 
kets on lettuce leaves and fill with Sauce Tartars. 
(See p. 17, under Family Dinners, Menu No. IV.) 

OYSTER CORKS. 

^ lb. lean raw veal 1| tablespoons melted buf>- 

^ cup oysters ter 

^ cup bread crumbs f teaspoon salt 

1 egg i teaspoon pepper 

Few grains cayenne 

Finely chop veal and pound in a mortar, and add 



i8o What to Have for Dinner. 

oysters finely chopped; then add bread crumbs, egg 
slightly beaten, butter, and seasonings. Mix ingredients 
to form a smooth paste and shape in balls one inch in 
diameter, then using a slight pressure of the hand roll 
balls into forms resembling corks. Dip in crumbs, egg 
and crumbs, fry in deep fat and drain on brown 
paper. Serve with Veloute Sauce. 

VBLOUTie SAUCE. 

2^ tablespoons butter 1^ cups white stock 
3 tablespoons flour ^ teaspoon salt 

Few grains pepper 

Melt butter, add flour mixed with seasonings, and 
stir until thoroughly blended. Pour on, gradually, the 
white stock, adding about one-third at a time, stirring 
until well mixed, then beating until smooth and glossy. 

FILLET OF BEEF A LA JARDINIERE. 

Wipe a three-pound fillet, trim and remove fat. Put 
one-half pound butter in a hot iron frying pan and, 
when melted, add fillet and turn frequently until the en- 
tire surface is seared and well browned; then turn oc- 
casionally until meat is done, the time required being 
about thirty minutes. Remove to hot serving dish and 
garnish with two cups potato balls, one cup, each, French 
peas, glazed carrots and one-half cup seedless raisins 
cooked in boiling water until plump and soft. Serve 
with Brown Walnut Sauce. 

BROWN WALNUT SAUCE. 

Pour off one-fourth cup fat from frying pan, add 
five tablespoons flour, and stir until well browned, then 



Company and Formal Dinners. i8i 

pour on gradually, while stirring constantly, one and 
one-fourth cups brown stock. When boiling point is 
reached, add the following nut mixture: 

Break two ounces English walnut meats in quarters 
and saute in butter, using just enough to prevent nut 
meats from burning. Mix three-fourths tablespoon 
chutney, one and one-half tablespoons chopped pickles, 
two-thirds tablespoon Worcestershire Sauce, one-fourth 
teaspoon salt and a few grains cayenne. Pour over nuts 
and heat thoroughly. 

POTATO BALLS. 

Wash and pare large potatoes, and shape into balls, 
using a French vegetable cutter; there should be two 
cups. Soak in cold water, twenty minutes. Drain and 
cook in boiling salted water until soft. Drain again, 
and pour over one tablespoon melted butter, and sprinkle 
with finely chopped parsley. 

FEENCH PEAS. 

Drain one can French peas from their liquor and rinse 
with cold water. Put in a sauce pan with four table- 
spoons butter and cook ten minutes. Season with salt 
and paprika. 

GLAZED CAEEOTS. 

Wash, scrape and cut carrots in one-fourth inch 
slices, and slice in one-fourth inch strips; there should 
be one cup. Parboil in boiling salted water fifteen 
minutes; drain, put in an omelet pan with one-fourth 
cup white stock, two tablespoons butter, and one-half 
teaspoon sugar. Place pan on back of range, and cook 
slowly, shaking pan occasionally until carrots are tender 
and slightly browned. 



1 82 What to Have for Dinner. 

BOASTED WILD DUCKS. 
Dress, clean and truss wild ducks. Sprinkle with 
salt and pepper, place on rack in dripping pan, and roast 
in a very hot oven twenty minutes. Baste every three 
minutes with one-half cup butter, melted in one-fourth 
cup boiling water to which are added two tablespoons 
lemon juice. Serve with Orange Sauce. 

OEANGB SAUCE. 
4 tablespoons butter Juice 2 oranges 

4 tablespoons flour Eind 2 oranges 

1^ cups white stock -J tablespoon lemon juice 

•J teaspoon salt Few grains cayenne 

Cut rind of oranges in very thin strips, then shred. 
Parboil, ten minutes, in boiling water to cover and 
drain. Melt butter, add flour and pour on, gradually, 
while stirring constantly, stock, and orange juice. Add 
seasonings, and shredded rind. 

EOMAINE SALAD. 
Separate the leaves from one head romaine. Wash and 
dry on towel, then shred leaves, using shears. Arrange 
in salad bowl and pour over a French Dressing. 

FEENCH DEESSING. 
•J teaspoon salt 5 tablespoons olive oil 

^ teaspoon pepper 2 tablespoons vinegar 

Few drops onion juice 

Mix ingredients and beat thoroughly. 

MOULDED CHEESE WITH BAE-LE-DUC STJiAW- 
BEEEIES. 
Mash cream cheese and press into a mould. Eemove 



Company and Formal Dinners. 183 

from mould, cover with whipped cream sweetened with 
powdered sugar and pour around strawberries. Serve 
with butter thins or water thins. 

PASTRY NUT STICKS. 

Roll plain paste as thinly as possible. Cut in strips 
three and one-half inches long and one and one-half 
inches wide and brush over with beaten white of egg. 
Sprinkle with almonds blanched and shredded and 
powered sugar. Bake in a hot oven until delicately 
browned. 

STRAWBEREY ICE CREAM WITH BRANDIED 
PEARS. 

1 box strawberries 1 quart cream 

1^ cups sugar Few grains salt 

Juice 1 lemon Red coloring 

Mash strawberries, add sugar, mix thoroughly and let 
stand one hour. Add lemon juice and squeeze through 
double thickness of cheese cloth; then add cream, salt 
and coloring. Freeze, mould in brick form and garnish 
with 

BRANDIED PEARS. 

Remove pears from can and, if whole, cut in halves 
crosswise and remove stems and seeds. Drain, and fill 
cavities with brandy, light, and when brandy has 
stopped burning, repeat. 

Surround ice cream brick with pears, fill cavities 
with brandy and send to table with brandy burning. 

SALTED ALMONDS. 
(See p. 120, under Christmas Dinners, Menu No. I.) 



II 84 What to Have for Dinner. 

COMPANY DINNEES. 

MENU NO. III. 

"Little dinners make peofle friends." 

Pruxt Cocktail. 

Lobster Bisque Soup, Bread Sticks. 

Halibut 1 la Meniere. Dressed Cucumbers. 

TOURNEDOS of BeEF. 

Broiled Chicken, Vienna Sauce. 

Duchess Potatoes. Boiled Asparagus. 

Pate de Foie Grab in Aspic. 

Colorado Salad. 

Caramel Nut Ice Cream. Shrewsbury Biscuit. 

Salted Pecans. Bonbons. 

Crackers. Cheese. 

Cafei Noir. 



Company and Formal Dinners. 185 

FRUIT COCKTAIL. 

Remove pulp from grape fruit and mix with shredded 
pineapple and halves of fresh strawberries, using half 
as much pineapple as grape fruit pulp, and allowing 
four strawberries to each serve. Chill thoroughly, and 
pour over Wine Dressing. Serve in champagne glasses 
and garnish top of each with a whole strawberry. 

WINE DRESSING. 

Mix one-third cup sherry wine, three tablespoons 
apricot brandy, and one-half cup sugar. Let stand until 
sugar has dissolved. 

LOBSTER BISQUE. 

1 two-lb. lobster 4 cups scalded milk 

2 common crackers 2 tablespoons butter 
2 cups white stock Lobster coral 

1 tablespoon butter -J teaspoon salt 

1^ tablespoons ilour Few grains pepper 

Few grains cayenne 

Remove meat from lobster and finely chop. Pound 
crackers in a mortar, add lobster meat and stock, gradu- 
ally, to form a paste; then add remaining stock. Melt 
butter and flour and pour on lobster mixture. Add 
seasonings to scalded milk and combine mixtures. Cream 
two tablespoons butter and add lobster coral, forced 
through a strainer, until a smooth paste is formed. Add 
by bits to hot soup, stirring with a wire whisk. 

HALIBUT A LA MENIfiRE. 

Wipe two slices halibut, sprinkle with salt and pepper, 
brush over with lemon juice and let stand ten minutes. 



1 86 What to Have for Dinner. 

Dip in cream, then in flour, and saute in butter. Re- 
move to hot platter, take out the bone, and remove skin. 
Add to butter remaining in pan two tablespoons flour 
and pour on one cup white stock, then add one and one- 
half teaspoons anchovy essence and a few drops lemon 
juice. Just before sauce is poured over "halibut, add one 
and one-half tablespoons butter and one-half tablespoon 
finely chopped parsley. 

TOUENEDOS OF BEEP. 

Wipe eight mignon fillets of beef. Shape in circular 
form, and saute in butter, four minutes. Put a mush- 
room cap on each, sauted in butter, then stuffed. Sprinkle 
stuffed mushroom caps with buttered crumbs, and bake 
in a hot oven until crumbs are browned. Eemove to hot 
serving dish, pour around Espagnol Sauce and garnish 
with strips of red and green peppers, cut in fancy 
shapes. 

Stuffing for Mushroom Caps. 

Finely chop six mushrooms, add one tablespoon, each, 
parsley and onion finely chopped and one tablespoon 
butter. Moisten with Espanol Sauce. 

ESPAJTOL SAUCE. 

\ cup butter IJ cups brown stock 

1 stalk celery, finely -J teaspoon salt 

chopped i teaspoon pepper 

1 slice, each, onion and Stems 8 mushrooms, 

carrot, finely chopped finely chopped 

\ cup flour Few grains cayenne 

Cook vegetables in butter until well browned, add 
flour and continue the browning, then pour on gradually. 



Company and Formal Dinners. 187 

while stirring constantly, brown stock. Add seasonings 
and strain. 

BROILED CHICKEN". 

Singe, wipe, and with a sharp pointed knife, be- 
ginning at back of neck, make a cut through the back- 
bone the entire length of the bird. Lay open bird and 
remove contents. Cut out rib bones, remove breastbone, 
then cut through tendons at joints. Sprinkle with salt 
and place in a well-greased wire broiler and broil 
twenty-five minutes over a clear fire, turning often. 
Should chicken become dry, brush over with melted 
butter. Eemove to dripping pan, spread with soft butter 
and bake two minutes. Serve with Vienna Sauce. 

VIENNA SAUCE. 

To two-thirds cup Mayonnaise Dressing, add two- 
thirds tablespoon, each, finely chopped capers, and pars- 
ley, and one-half tablespoon each, finely chopped pickles 
and olives; and one can tomatoes, stewed, strained and 
cooked until reduced to two tablespoons. 

DUCHESS POTATOES. 

To one and one-half cups hot riced potatoes, add one 
and one-half tablespoon butter, one-half teaspoon salt 
and the yolks of two eggs, slightly beaten. 

BOILED ASPARAGUS. 

Boil asparagus, drain, sprinkle with salt and pour 
over melted butter. 

PATfi DE FOIB GRAS IN ASPIC. 

Cook two tablespoons, each, carrot, onion and celery, 
two sprigs parsley, two sprigs thyine, one sprig savory. 



1 88 What to Have for Dinner. 

two cloves, one-half teaspoon peppercorns, and one-half 
bay leaf in two-thirds cup Sherry wine, eight minutes. 
Strain and reserve liquor. Add one box gelatine and 
the juice of one lemon to one quart consomme. Heat 
to boiling point, add strained liquor and season with 
salt and cayenne. Cool, add whites of two eggs, beaten 
slightly, and stir constantly until boiling point is 
reached. Place on back of range, let stand twenty min- 
utes, and strain through double thickness of cheese 
cloth. Line individual moulds with the aspic and fill 
with pate de foie gras moistened with whipped cream. 

COLORADO SALAD. 

Eemove stones from red and white cherries and cut 
in halves lengthwise ; remove pulp from oranges ; remove 
skins from bananas and cut in one-half inch cubes. 
Mix equal quantities of each and marinate with French 
Dressing. | Serve in cups made from lettuce leaves. 

FRENCH DRESSING. 

Mix one-fourth teaspoon salt, one-eighth teaspoon 
paprika, four tablespoons olive oil, and one tablespoon, 
each, vinegar and lemon juice. Stir until well blended. 

CARAMEL NUT ICE CREAM. 

1 cup sugar 2 cups milk 

§■ cup English walnut 1 cup heavy cream 

meats 1^ teaspoons vanilla 

Yolks 3 eggs- Few grains salt 

Put two-thirds of the sugar in a smooth granite 
sauce pan, place over hot part of range, and stir con- 
stantly until melted.' and of the color of maple syrup. 



Company and Formal Dinners. 189 

Add to cararoel thus made, chopped nut meats and turn 
into a slightly buttered pan to cool. When cool, pound 
in a mortar, then pass through a puree strainer. 

Make a custard of egg yolks, remaining sugar, milk 
and salt. Add caramelized sugar, flavoring and cream, 
beaten until stiff; then freeze. 

SHEEWSBUEY BISCUIT. 

^ cup butter 3 cups flour 

i cup sugar 1 egg 

Cream the butter, and add sugar, gradually, con- 
tinuing the beating; then add egg, well beaten, and 
flour. Toss on a floured board, roll very thin and shape 
with a round cutter, first dipped in flour. Put on tin 
sheet and bake in a slow oven. 

It may be necessary to add more flour. 

SALTED PECANS. 
(See p. 128, under Christmas Dinners, Menu No. II.) 



190 What to Have for Dinner. 



COMPANY DINNERS. 

MENU NO. IV. 

"Without good company all dainties 
Lose their true relish, and like painted grapes. 
Are only seen, not tasted." 

Caviare Canapes. 

Consomme with Egg Balls. 

Lobster in Cases. 

Sweetbreads a la Huntington. 

Roast Duck. Stuffed Apples. 

Fried Hominy. Creamed Cauliflower. 

Chicory Salad. Cheese Croquettes. 

Macaroon Ice Cream. Sponge Drops. 

Salted Almonds. Bonbons. 

Cafe Noie. 



Company and Formal Dinners. 191 
CAVIAEE CAJSTAPfiS. 

Cut stale bread in one-fourth inch slices; then shape 
into crescents, using a round cutter. Saute in butter 
until delicately browned, and, when cold, spread with 
caviare. Serve each canape on a fancy plate and gar- 
nish with a sprig of watercress. 

CONSOMMfi WITH EGG BALLS. 

For consomme, (see p. 122, under Christmas Din- 
ners, Menu No. II.) 

EGG BALLS. 

2 "hard boiled" eggs Few grains cayenne 
i teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon butter 

■J teaspoon parsley, finely chopped 

Chop eggs and rub through a sieve, then add re- 
maining ingredients. Moisten with raw egg yolk to 
make of consistency to handle, shape in small balls, 
and poach in boiling water or milk. 

LOBSTEE IN CASES. 

1 two-lb. lobster Few grains cayenne 

3 tablespoons butter 2 tablespoons butter 

3 tablespoons flour 2 tablespoons Sherry wine 

1 cup milk 1 tablespoon brandy 

1 teaspoon salt Yolks 2 eggs 

i teaspoon pepper i cup cream 

Buttered bread crumbs 

Eemove lobster meat from shell, and cut in small 
cubes, reserving the coral. Make a white sauce of but- 
ter, flour, milk, salt, pepper and cayenne. Melt two 



192 What to Have for Dinner. 

tablespoons butter in omelet pan, add lobster cubes and 
cook until heated, then add Sherry wine, and brandy, 
and cook two minutes. Add yolks of eggs slightly 
beaten and diluted with cream, then white sauce. Turn 
into buttered ramequin dishes or scallop shells. 
Sprinkle with coral dried and forced through a puree 
strainer, then with buttered bread crumbs. Bake in hot 
oven until slightly browned. Do not allow to remain 
for too long a time, as sauce is liable to separate. 

SWEETBEBADS A LA HUNTINGTON". 

Parboil sweetbreads, sprinkle with salt and pepper, 
and dredge with flour. Arrange in baking pan and 
spread with softened butter, allowing two tablespoons 
to each sweetbread, then arrange narrow thin strips fat 
salt pork on top. Bake in a hot oven twenty-five to 
thirty minutes, basting twice during the cooking, and 
removing pork during the last five minutes of the cook- 
ing. Serve around a mound of green peas. 

To Parboil Sweetbreads. * 

Soak sweetbreads in cold water to cover one hour, 
changing the water several times. Drain, and cook in 
boiling, salted, acidulated water, twenty minutes, al- 
lowing one-half tablespoon salt and one tablespoon 
vinegar to each pair of sweetbreads. Again drain, cover 
with cold water, let stand until cold, then remove pipes 
and membrane. 

EOAST DUCK. 

Dress and clean a duck. Put in body two sliced apples 
mixed with two sliced onions. The stuflBng is to im- 
prove the flavor but is not to be served. Truss, same 
as goose, place on rack in dripping pan, sprinkle with 



Company and Formal Dinners. 193 

salt and pepper and dredge duck and bottom of pan with 
flour. Eoast in a hot oven until tender, the time re- 
quired being about one and one-fourth hours. Baste 
every fifteen minutes during the cooking. Eemove to 
hot platter and garnish with watercress. 



DUCK GEAVY. 

To three tablespoons fat remaining in pan, add two 
tablespoons flour and when well mixed pour on gradu- 
ally, while stirring constantly, one and one-half cups 
brown or white stock. Season with salt and pepper and 
strain. 

STUFFED APPLES. 

Eemove a thick slice from the stem end of apples, 
and scoop out the pulp, leaving apple cups. To one- 
third the pulp cut in small pieces, add an equal quantity 
of Maraschino cherries cut in pieces and pecan nut 
meats broken in pieces. Place in a shallow pan, and add 
one teaspoon sugar to each apple cup. Bake long 
enough to soften the apple, but not long enough to 
have the cup lose its shape. Eemove from oven and add 
one teaspoon, each. Maraschino and Sherry to each cup. 

FEIED HOMINY. 

To two and one-fourth cups boiling water, add, 
gradually, while stirring constantly, one-half cup fine 
hominy and three-fourths teaspoon salt. Let boil three 
minutes; then cook in double boiler one and one-half 
hours. Pack solidly in a mould and, when cold, remove 
from mould, cut in thin slices, dip in flour, and saut6 
in butter until well Iwowned on both sides. 



194 What to Have for Dinner. 

CEEAMED CAULIFLOWER 
(See p. IS?, under Lenten Dinners, Menu No. II.)' 

CHICORY SALAD. 

Separate leaves from one head chicory, wash thor- 
oughly, and drain. Arrange in salad bowl as near the 
original shape as possible and pour over the following 
dressing : 

Mix one-fourth teaspoon salt, one-eighth teaspoon 
pepper, four tablespoons olive oil, two tablespoons vine- 
gar, and stir until well blended. Then add one table- 
spoon each, onion and parsley, finely chopped. 

CHEESE CROQUETTES. 

4 tablespoons flour f cup milk 

3 tablespoons butter f cup grated, soft cheese 

1 slice onion Salt 

Cayenne 

Scald milk with onion and remove onion. Melt but- 
ter, add flour, and pour on, gradually, the milk. Add 
cheese, season with salt and cayenne, and spread on a 
plate to cool. Shape, dip in crumbs, egg and crumbs, 
fry in deep fat, and drain on brown paper. 

MACAROON ICE CREAM. 

1 pint heavy cream ^ lb. dried macaroons 

1 pint milk ^ cup Sherry wine 

§ cup sugar Few grains salt 

. Roll macaroons and soak in Sherry several hours. 
Beat cream until stiff, and add sugar which has been 



Company and Formal Dinners. 195 

dissolved in milk. Combine mixtures and add a few 
grains of salt. Freeze, mould, pack in salt and ice and 
let stand one hour. 

SPONGE DROPS. 

Whites 3 eggs ^ cup flour 

i cup powdered sugar -J teaspoon salt 

Yolks 2 eggs J teaspoon vanilla 

Beat whites of eggs until stifE and dry, and add 
sugar, gradually, continuing the beating. Add yolks 
of eggs beaten until thick and lemon colored, then cut 
and fold in flour mixed and sifted with salt. Shape 
in circles, three inches in diameter, on a tin sheet cov- 
ered with unbuttered paper. Sprinkle with powdered 
sugar and bake eight minutes in moderate oven. 



196 What to Have for Dinner. 



COMPANY DINNEES. 

MENU NO. V. 

"A. good digestion to you all; and once more 
I shower a welcome on you; welcome all." 

Mock Turtle Soup, Eoyal Custard. 

Fried Oysters, Southern Cole Slaw. 

Moulded Sweetbreads, Truffle Sauce. 

Fillets of Beef, Eaisin Sauce. 

Parisian Potatoes. Peas a la Francaise, 

Broiled Quail. ^ruit and Nut Salad. 

Custard Souffle. Foamy Sauce. 

TuTTi Feuitti Ice. 

Bonbons. 

Crackers. Cheese. 

Cafe Noir. 



Company and Formal Dinners. 197 
MOCK TTJETLE SOUP. 



1 calf's head 
4 cloves 

10 peppercorns 

6 allspice berries 

2 sprigs thyme 
2 sprigs parsley 
^ onion sliced 

6 slices carrot 

2 stalks celery 

3 quarts boiling water 



1 cup calf's head meat 

2 cups brown stock 
^ cup butter 

J cup tlour 

1 cup stewed and strained 

tomatoes 
Juice ^ lemon 
J cup Madeira wine 
Salt 
Pepper 



Clean and wash calf's head and soak one hour in cold 
water to cover. Cook until tender in three quarts boil- 
ing salted water, to which seasonings and vegetables 
have been added. Eemove head and boil stock until 
reduced to one quart. Strain and cool. Melt and brown 
butter slightly, add flour and stir until well browned, 
then pour on gradually the brown stock. Add calf's 
head stock, tomatoes, one cup face meat, cut in dice, 
and lemon juice. Simmer eight minutes, add Eoyal 
Custard cut in dice, and wine. Season with salt and 
pepper. 

EOYAL CUSTAED. 



Yolks 
legg 



3 eggs 



i cup calf's head stock 
^ teaspoon salt 
Pew grains cayenne 



Beat eggs slightly, and add head stock and season- 
ings. Pour into small buttered tin mould to the depth 
of one-third inch. Place mould in pan of hot water 
and bake until firm. Cool, remove from mould and cut 
in one-third inch cubes 



198 What to Have for Dinner. 
PRIED OYSTEES. 

Wash oysters, parboil in their own liquor; and dry 
between towels. ■ Dip in fine bread crumbs, seasoned 
with salt and pepper, egg slightly beaten and diluted 
with one tablespoon milk, then in crumbs again. Fry 
in deep fat until well browned, and drain on brown 
paper. Serve with Southern Cole Slaw. 

SOUTHEElSr COLE SLAW. 

1 cup cabbage, finely 1 green pepper, finely 

shredded chopped 

1 cup celery, finely cut 1 teaspoon celery seed 
1 red pepper, finely -J teaspoon salt 

chopped 2 teaspoons sugar 

j i cup vinegar 

Mix ingredients in the order given, and serve without 
cooking. 

MOULDED SWEETBREADS. 

Parboil a pair of sweetbreads and cut in small cubes. 
Fold into a chicken forcemeat and turn into a border 
mould, first decorated with truffles. Set in pan of hot 
water, cover with buttered paper, and bake until firm. 
Remove from mould and pour around Truffle Sauce. 

Chicken Forcemeat. 

Finely chop the breast of an uncooked chicken, pound 
in a mortar, then rub through a sieve. Add, gradually, 
the whites of two eggs, and work until smooth. Season 
highly with salt and paprika ; and add heavy cream until 
of right consistency, which can only be determined by 
cooking a small ball in boiling salted water. When mix- 



Company and Formal Dinners. 199 

ture will not keep in shape, more white of egg is needed. 
If too stiff add more cream. 



TEUFFLB SAUCE. 

Melt three tablespoons butter, add four tablespoons 
flour, and pour on gradually, while stirring constantly, 
three-fourths cup, each, cream and chicken stock. Sea- 
son with salt and paprika and add two tablespoons 
chopped truffles. 

SAUTfiD FILLETS OF BEEF, EAISIN SAUCE. 

Cut beef tenderloin in slices one-inch thick and shape 
in circular pieces. Saute six minutes in a hot, slightly 
buttered frying pan, turning every twenty seconds for 
the first minute, that surface may be well seared, thus 
preventing escape of juices. After the first minute, turn 
occasionally. When half done, sprinkle with salt. Re- 
move to hot serving dish, spread with soft butter, and 
pour over 

EAISIN SAUCE. 

Soak one-half cup seeded raisins in boiling water to 
cover, twenty minutes. Drain, cut in halves, add three 
tablespoons Sherry wine, cover and let stand two hours. 

PAEISIAN POTATOES. 

Wash and pare large potatoes and shape into balls, 
using a French vegetable cutter; there should be three 
cups. Plunge into cold water, let stand ten minutes 
and drain. Melt one-fourth cup butter in a small drip- 
ping pan, add potatoes and sprinkle with salt. Place 
in oven, and cook until potatoes are soft; the time re- 
quired being about twenty minutes. 



20O What to Have for Dinner. 
PEAS A LA FRANCAISE. 

Cook three tablespoons butter with one slice bacon 
eight minutes; remove bacon and add two cups fresh 
peas and eight small onions. Cook until vegetables, are 
soft, adding a small quantity of boiling water to pre- 
vent burning. Add one-fourth cup cream, yolk one egg, 
and one head lettuce, cut in quarters. Season with salt 
and pepper. 

BROILED QUAIL. 

Singe, wipe, and with a sharp pointed knife, begin- 
ning at back of neck, make a" cut through backbone the 
entire length of bird. Lay open the bird and remove 
contents from inside. Wipe thoroughly, sprinkle with 
salt, brush over with olive oil, and broil over a clear 
fire, ten to twelve minutes, watching carefully and turn- 
ing so that all parts may be equally browned. Remove 
quail to canapes of bread spread with Maitre d'Hotel 
Butter, then browned in oven. Garnish with slices of 
lemon and watercress. 

FRUIT AND NUT SALAD. 

Skin and remove seeds from Malaga grapes and cut in 
halves lengthwise; there should be one-half cup. Mix 
with one-half cup shredded fresh pineapple, one-half 
cup apple, pared and cut in small pieces and three- 
fourths cup Brazil nuts, skinned and cut in pieces. Add 
one-half tablespoon lemon juice and moisten with 
Cream Mayonnaise. Arrange in nests of lettuce leaves 
and garnish with Cream Mayonnaise forced through a 
pastry bag and tube. 



Company and Formal Dinners. 201 
CREAM MAYOISTNAISE DEESSING. 

■J teaspoon mustard f cup olive oil 

4 teaspoon salt f tablespoon lemon juice 

Few grains cayenne f tablespoon vinegar 

Yolks 2 eggs ^ cup cream 

Mix mustard, salt and cayenne. Add yolks of eggs 
and stir until thoroughly mixed. Add oil, at first drop 
by drop, stirring with a wooden spoon or wire whisk. 
As mixture thickens dilute with vinegar, when oil may 
be added more rapidly. Add the lemon juice when 
nearly finished. Set in a cold place to chill and, when 
i"eady to use, add the cream beaten until stiff. 

CUSTARD SOUFFLfi. 

(See p. 161, under Warm Weather Dinners, Menu No. 
III.) 

TUTTI FRUITTI ICE. 

4 cups water 1 cup candied fruit, pine- 

2 cups sugar apple and cherries., cut in 

2 cups orange juice small pieces 

i cup lemon juice i cup raisins, seeded and 

Grated rind 3 oranges cut in pieces 

J cup brandy 

Make a syrup by boiling water and sugar, fifteen min- 
utes. Add fruit juices and grated rind. Cool, strain 
and freeze. When well frozen, add candied fruits, and 
raisins which have soaked in brandy four hours. 

Serve in glasses and garnish with candied orange 
peel. 



202 What to Have for Dinner. 



COMPANY DINNEES. 

MENU NO. VI. 

"With a few friends 
And a few dishes dine." 

White Soup with Wine. Pulled Bread. 

Mushrooms under Glass. 

EoAST Turkey, Truffle Gravy. 

Dutch Potatoes. Glazed Chestnuts. 

Celery au Bechamel. 

Fruit Salad. Mayonnaise Dressing. 

Canton Mousse. Cream Cones. 

Salted Pecans. Bonbons. 

Crackers. Cheese. 

Cafe Noir. 



Company and Formal Dinners. 203 
WHITE SOUP WITH WINE. 

4 lbs. knuckle of veal 1 tablespoon salt 

2 quarts cold water Few grains cayenne 

3 slices carrot ^ teaspoon peppercorns 

1 sliced onion 2 tablespoons Sauteme 

4 stalks celery wine 

2 sprigs parsley 1 teaspoon beef extract 
Bit of bay leaf 1 cup cream 

Wipe meat, remove from bone and cut in small pieces. 
Put meat and bone in soup kettle, cover with water 
and add carrot, onion, celery, parsley, bay leaf, salt, 
cayenne, and peppercorns. Bring quickly to boiling 
point, simmer five hours and strain. Chill, remove fat, 
reheat, add wine, beef extract and cream. Season with 
salt and cayenne. 

PULLED Bi?EAD. 

Cut crusts from a loaf of bread just from the oven. 
With a fork pull the bread apart into strips five inches 
long and quite thin. Dry in a slow oven until crisp, 
taking care bread is only a delicate brown when finished. 
Serve as an accompaniment to soups. 

MUSHEOOMS UNDEE GLASS. 

Cream two tablespoons butter, and add one-half table- 
spoon lemon juice, one-fourth teaspoon salt, a few grains 
pepper, and one-half tablespoon finely chopped parsley. 
Toast a circular piece of bread one-half inch in thick- 
ness and five ihches in diameter. Spread one-half the 
mixture on toast, and put buttered side down in baking 
dish. Pile mushroom caps on toast in coqical shape. 
Dot remaining sauce over mushrooms, and pour over 



204 What to Have for Dinner. 

one-third cup cream. Cover with glass and cook on top 
of range twenty -five minutes. Just before serving add 
one teaspoon Sherry or Madeira wine. 

Baking dishes, with bell-shaped glass covers for cook- 
ing mushrooms under glass, may be bought of any first- 
■class dealer in house furnishing goods. 

EOAST TUEKEY. 

Dress, clean, stuff, and truss an eight-pound turkey. 
Spread with thick, sour cream, and let stand in ice 
box over-night. Put on rack in dripping pan, sprinkle 
with salt, dredge bird and bottom of pan with flour, and 
lay thin strips fat bacon over breast. Bake two and one- 
half hours, basting every fifteen minutes with one-half 
cup butter, melted in one-half cup boiling water, and, 
after this is used, with fat in pan. Turn turkey fre- 
quently, that it may brown evenly, removing the bacon 
after the first hour of the cooking. 

STUFFING. 

Finely chop two-thirds pound, each, fat salt pork and 
lean fresh pork. Shell two pounds French chestnuts, 
cook in boiling salted water until soft, and force through 
a puree strainer. Add to pork, and season with salt, 
pepper, thyme and bay leaf, pounded and sifted. 

TEUFFLE GEAVY. 

To four tablespoons fat remaining in pan, add five 
tablespoons flour and pour on, gradually, while stirring 
constantly, two cups stock in which ^blets, neck and 
tips of wings have been cooked. Add one-half teaspoon 
salt, few I grains pepper, one tablespoon Madeira wine 
and two chopped truffles. 



Company and Formal Dinners. 205 

DUTCH POTATOES. 

Wash and pare eight small potatoes, and soak in cold 
water, to cover, one-half hour. Drain, put in sauce pan 
and cover with one quart boiling water to which has 
been added two tablespoons butter, and one-half table- 
spoon salt. Cook until soft, and drain. Eetum to 
sauce pan, add three tablespoons butter, one tablespoon 
lemon juice, one-third teaspoon salt and a few grains 
cayenne. Cook three minutes, shaking pan frequently. 
Eemove to hot serving dish, and sprinkle with one table- 
spoon finely chopped parsley. 

GLAZED CHESTNUTS. 

Eemove shells from one pint French chestnuts. Put 
in sauce pan, cover with boiling water, and let boil five 
minutes. Drain, plunge into cold water, and rub off 
the dark skins. Eetum to sauce pan, add one-half cup 
brown stock, and let simmer gently. Shake sauce pan 
frequently, allowing chestnuts to cook until soft, when 
stock will be evaporated. 

CELEEY AU BfiCHAMEL. 

3 cups celery 2 tablespoons flour 

]| cups white stock J teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons butter -J teaspoon pepper 

Wash, scrape and cut celery in one-inch pieces ; there 
should be three cups. Plunge into boiling water and 
let boil five minutes. Drain, add white stock, and let 
simmer thirty minutes or until soft. Melt butter, add 
flour; and pour on, gradually, the cooked celery. Sea- 
son with salt and pepper. 



2o6 What to Have for Dinner. 

FRUIT SALAD. 

Eemove skin and seed from Malaga grapes and cut in 
halves lengthwise. Mix with an equal quantity of 
shredded fresh pineapple, apples, pared, cored and cut in 
small pieces, celery, cut in small pieces, and Brazilian 
nuts (from which skins have heen removed) cut in 
small pieces. Mix thoroughly, sprinkle with lemon 
juice and moisten with Mayonnaise Dressing. 

CANTON MOUSSE. 

^teaspoon granulated Few grains salt 

gelatine 1 tablespoon wine 

i cup cold water 1 tablespoon brandy 

1 cup milk 2 tablespoons ginger syrup 

Yolks 2 eggs J cup Canton ginger, cut 

^ cup sugar in pieces 

Whip from 2^ cups cream 

Mix wine, brandy, ginger syrup, and Canton gin- 
ger; cover, and let stand two hours. Soak gelatine in 
cold water, and add to custard made of milk, eggs, su- 
gar and salt. Strain, chill in pan of ice water, add 
ginger mixture, and when mixture begins to thicken, 
fold in whip from cream. Put in melon mouldj pack 
in salt and ice, and let stand two hours. 

CREAM CONES. 

Eoll pufE paste to one-fourth inch in thickness. Shape 
over conical forms, which may be bought of any dealer 
in kitchen furnishings, or heavy brown paper forms of 
similar shape may be substituted. Chill thoroughly, 
place on a tin sheet, and bake in a very hot oven. Re- 



Company and Formal Dinners. 207 

move from moulds, cool, and fill with whipped cream 
sweetened and flavored with vanilla. 



PUFF PASTE. 

(See p. 106, under Thanksgiving Dinners, Menu No. 
I.) 



2o8 What to Have for Dinner. 



COMPANY DINNERS. 

MENU NO. VII. 

A well cooked and well served dinner implies on the 
part of the entertainer a sense of the respect he owes to 
his guests, whose comfort and happiness he controls 
while they are under his roof. — Didsbuey. 

Italian Soup. Imperial Crusts. 

Oysters and Mushroom Patties. 

Roast Ham with Cider Sauce. 

Boiled Potatoes. Spinach. 

Browned SwEETBiiSAos. 

Tomato and Cucumber Baskets. 

Orange Cream Sherbet. Chocolate Petits Fours. 

Crackers. Cheese. 

Cafe Noir. 



Company and Formal Dinners. 209 

ITALIAN SOUP. 

1 quart brown soup stock J cup butter 

2 cups tomatoes 2 tablespoons flour 
2 tablespoons chopped Salt 

green peppers Pepper 

1 tablespoon chopped red Cayenne 

peppers 2 tablespoons grated horse- 

2 tablespoons chopped radish root 
onion 1 teaspoon vinegar 

i cup macaroni rings 

Cook peppers and onion in butter five minutes, add 
flour, stock and tomatoes and let simmer fifteen min- 
utes ; then rub through a sieve. Season highly with salt, 
pepper and cayenne. Just before serving, add horse- 
radish, vinegar and macaroni previously cooked in 
boiling salted water, then cut in rings. 



IMPERIAL CRUSTS. 
(See p. 74, under Family Dinners, Menu No. XVIII.) 

PATTIES. 

Roll puff paste (see p. 105, under Thanksgiving Din- 
ners, Menu No. I.) one-fourth inch thick, and shape with 
a patty cutter, first dipped in flour. Remove centres 
from one-half the rounds. Brush over large pieces with 
cold water, near edges, and fit on rings, pressing lightly. 
Chill thoroughly and bake twenty-five minutes in a hot 
oven. 



2IO What to Have for Dinner. 
OYSTEES AND MTJSHEOOMS 

(For Patty Fillings). 

1 pint oysters 1 cup oyster liquor 

1 cup mushroom caps, J cup brown stock 

broken in pieces 4 teaspoon salt 

i cup butter | teaspoon pepper 

^ cup flour Few grains cayenne 

1 tablespoon Sherry wine 

Parboil oysters, drain, reserve liquor and strain; 
there should be one cup. Brown, butter, add flour and 
cook until well browned ; then pour on, gradually, oyster 
liquor and stock. Add oysters, mushroom caps and sea- 
sonings. 

EOAST HAM WITH CIDEB SAUCE. 

Soak a twelve-pound ham several hours, or over-night, 
in cold water to cover. Wash thoroughly, scrape and 
trim ofE hard skin near end of bone. Put in a kettle 
with one-half cup each, sliced onion and carrot, two 
sprigs parsley, one-half bay leaf, four cloves, and five 
peppercorns. Cover with cold water, bring slowly to 
boiling point, and let simmer until tender, the time 
required being about four hours. After two hours of 
the cooking, add one quart cider. Allow ham to cool in 
liquor. Eemove from liquor, take off skin, sprinkle with 
sugar and fine bread crumbs. Put dashes of paprika 
over ham, about every two inches, and insert a clove 
in centre of each dash. Bake one hour in a slow oven. 
Serve hot with 



Company and Formal Dinners. 211 

CIDER SAUCE. ' 

3 tablespoons butter 2 cups ham liquor 

4 tablespoons flour 4 tablespoons cider 

Melt the butter, add flour and pour on, gradually, 
while stirring constantly, hot ham liquor. Add eider 
and salt and pepper, if necessary. 

SPINACH WITH SAIJTfiD CEOtTONS. 

Wash one-half peck spinach in several waters, dis- 
carding wilted leaves. Cook in an uncovered vessel in a 
large quantity of boiling water, to which has been added 
one-half teaspoon, each, sugar and salt, and one-fourth 
teaspoon soda; drain and chop. Melt one-fourth cup 
butter, add spinach, and cook two minutes. Stir until 
thoroughly mixed and heated. Remove to hot platter 
and garnish with Sauted Croutons. 

SAUTED CROUTONS. 

{To be used for Garnishing.) 

Cut stale bread in one-third inch slices and remove 
crusts. Cut in diamonds, triangles, circles, crescents, or 
any desired shapes. Saute in butter until delicately 
browned, turning frequently, and drain on brown paper. 

BROWNED SWEETBREADS. 

Parboil a sweetbread and put in baking pan with one 
slice each onion and carrot, and a sprig of parsley. Pour 
over one cup rich brown stock, and bake until stock is 
absorbed, basting every five minutes. Serve witjr 

TRUFFLE SAUCE. 
Cut three truffles in thin slices or small strips and 



212 What to Have for Dinner. 

add one cup brown sauce, to which has been, added two 
tablespoons Sherry wine. 

BEOWN SAUCE. 

2 tablespoons butter 3 tablespoons flour 

1 slice onion ^ teaspoon salt 

1 slice carrot Few grains, pepper 

1 cup brown stock 

Cook butter, onion and carrot until butter is well 
browned. Remove vegetables, add flour and seasonings, 
and continue the browning. Then pour on gradually, 
while stirring constantly, the brown stock. 

TOMATO AND CUCUMBEE BASKETS. 

Cut thick slices from both ends of three short cu- 
cumbers and remove two pieces from each cucum- 
ber, in such a way as to leave baskets with handles; 
then scoop out pulp. Carefully cut pieces from^ three 
medium-sized tomatoes in such a way as to leave baskets 
with handles ; then scoop out pulp. Marinate cucumber 
cut in pieces, and tomato cut in pieces, separately, 
vrith French Dressing. Fill cucumber baskets with to- 
mato, and tomato baskets with cucumber. Arrange 
on lettuce leaves, alternating green and red baskets. 

PEENCH DEESSING. 

Mix one-half teaspoon salt, few grains paprika, four 
tablespoons olive oil and two tablespoons vinegar. Stir 
until well blended. 



Company and Formal Dinners. 213 

ORANGE CEBAM SHEEBBT. 

2 cups boiling water li cups orange juice 
1^ cups sugar 1 pint heavy cream 
Grated rind 2 oranges ^ cup sugar 

f cup lemon juice 2 eggs 

Few grains salt 

Dissolve sugar in boiling water, add orange rind, 
lemon juice and orange juice. Turn into freezer and 
freeze to a mush. Beat cream until stiff and add sugar 
and salt. Separate yolks from whites of eggs, beat yolks 
until thick and lemon colored and whites until stiff, and 
add to cream. Turn into frozen mixture, and continue 
the freezing. 

CHOCOLATE PETITS FOUES. 

3 eggs 3 squares melted chocolate 
I cup butter 1 cup stale bread crumbs 
i cup sugar 3 tablespoons flour 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Cream the butter, add sugar gradually, and eggs well 
beaten. Add the melted chocolate, bread crumbs, flour 
and vanilla. Spread in a shallow dripping pan and bake 
in a moderate oven. The cake should be about one- 
fourth to one-third inch in thickness when baked. Al- 
low the cake to remain in pan until cool, then shape 
with a circular cutter, one inch in diameter. 

Put together in pairs with White Frosting between 
and on top. 

WHITE FBOSTING. 

1 cup sugar White 1 egg 

3 tablespoons water i teaspoon vanilla 



214 What to Have for Dinner. 

Put sugar and water in sauce pan and stir to prevent 
sugar from adhering to sauce pan ; heat to boiling point, 
and boil, without stirring, until syrup will thread when 
dropped from tip of spoon. This frosting is more suc- 
cessful when the syrup is washed down during cooking. 
To accomplish this, have a sauce pan containing cold 
Vater, dip the hands quickly from the cold water into 
pan containing hot syrup, then again into cold water, 
repeat several times, thus removing granules of sugar 
adhering to side of pan. Pour syrup gradually on 
beaten white of egg, beating mixture constantly and 
continuing the beating until of right consistency to 
spread. Add flavoring and spread on cake. 



Company and Formal Dinners. 215 



COMPANY DINNERS. 
MENU NO. VIII. 
A good dinner sharpens witj while it softens the heart. 

■ — ^DORAN. 

Consomme. Dinnek Eolls. 

Fkied Shad Roe. 

Cucumber Jelly with Cream Mayonnaise. 

Chicken Croquettes, Yellow Bechamel Sauce. 

Roast Leg of Mutton, Brown Gravy. 
Dutch Potatoes. Brussels Sprouts, Lenox Sauce. 

Artichoke Salad. 

Peach Cream. Raisin Cup Cases. 

Salted Almonds. Bonbons. 

Crackers. Cheese. 

Caf:^ Noir. 



2i6 What to Have for Dinner. 
CONSOMMfl. 

(See p. 122, under Christmas Dinners, Menu Ko. II.) 

DINNER ROLLS. 
(See p. 116, under Christmas Dinners, Menu No. I.) 

CUCUMBER JELLY WITH CREAM MAYON- 
NAISE. 

3 large cucumbers Few grains pepper 

2 cups water Few grains cayenne 

3 tablespoons granulated Salt 

gelatine - 1 tablespoon vinegar 

4 drops onion juice Green coloring 

Peel cucumbers and cut in thin slices. Put in sauce 
pan, cover with one-half the water, bring to boiling point, 
and cook until soft; then force through a puree strainer. 
Add to this gelatine dissolved in remaining water and 
remaining ingredients, color green, and strain through 
a double thickness of cheese cloth. Turn into a border 
mould, first dipped in cold water. Chill thoroughly, re- 
move from mould, and put Cream Mayonnaise (see p. 
201, under Company Dinners, Menu No. V.) Dress- 
ing in centre. 

FRIED SHAD ROE. 

Parboil roe in boiling salted water, ten minutes. 
Drain, cover with cold water, and let stand until cold. 
Drain again, sprinkle with salt and saute in butter. 



Company and Formal Dinners. 217 
CHICKElSr CROQUETTES. 

2 cups cold, chopped, -J tablespoon finely chopped 
cooked chicken parsley 

1 teaspoon salt 3 tablespoons butter 

J teaspoon pepper 5 tablespoons flour 

Few grains cayenne 1 cup milk or stock 

•J tablespoon lemon juice Salt 
J teaspoon onion juice Pepper 

Yolk 1 egg 

Season chicken with salt, pepper, cayenne, lemon 
juice, onion juice and chopped parsley. Make a sauce 
by melting butter, adding flour, and pouring on, gradu- 
ally, milk or stock. Add chicken to sauce and, when 
thoroughly heated, add seasonings and yolk of egg well 
beaten. Cook one minute, remove from fire and spread 
on a plate to cool. When cold, shape, dip in crumbs, 
egg and crumbs, fry in deep fat, and drain on brown 
paper. Serve around a mound of green peas or with 
Yellow Bechamel Sauce. 

YELLOW BfiCHAMEL SAUCE. 

3 tablespoons butter f cup white stock 

1 slice carrot f cup milk 

2 slices onion i teaspoon salt 

3 tablespoons flour | teaspoon pepper 

Yolks 2 eggs 

Cook butter with carrot and onion until butter is 
yellow, add flour and pour on, gradually, white stock 
and milk. Bring to boiling point, strain, and add sea- 
sonings, and yolks of eggs slightly beaten. 



2r8 What to Have for Dinner. 

EOAST LEG OF MUTTON, BEOWN GRAVY 
Eemove the caul, wipe meat, sprinkle with salt, place 
on rack in dripping pan, and dredge meat and bottom 
of pan with flour. Bake from one and one-half to two 
hours. The oven should be very hot during the first 
part of the cooking. i\fter the meat is well browned, 
the heat should be reduced. Baste every fifteen minutes 
during the cooking. Success in roasting meats depends 
upon frequent basting with fat in pan. 

BEOWN GEAVY. 

Eemove some of the fat from pan, leaving three table- 
spoons. Add three tablespoons flour and stir until well 
browned, then pour on, gradually, one and one-half 
cups boiling water. Season with salt and strain. 

DUTCH POTATOES. 
(See p. 205, under Company Dinners, Menu No. VI.) 

BEUSSBLS SPEOUTS WITH LENOX SAUCE. 
Pick over Brussels sprouts, remove wilted leaves, and 
soak in cold water fifteen minutes. Cook in boiling 
salted water twenty minutes, or until easily pierced with 
a skewer. Drain, put in hot serving dish, and pour over 



LENOX SAUCE. 


1|- teaspoons mustard 


i cup vinegar 


IJ teaspoons salt 


i cup olive oil 


1 teaspoon powdered 


2 tablespoons melted butter 


sugar 


J tablespoon curry powder 


J teaspoon paprika 


^ tablespoon parsley, finely 


2 eggs 


chopped 



^ teaspoon onion juice 



Company and Formal Dinners. 219 

Mix mustard, salt, powdered sugar and paprika, and 
add eggs, slightly beaten, vinegar and olive oil. Cook 
over hot water until mixture thickens, strain, and add 
remaining ingredients. 

AETICHOKE SALAD. 

Cut off stem close to leaves, remove outside bottom 
leaves, trim artichoke, cut off one inch from top of 
leaves, and with a sharp knife remove choke; then tie 
artichoke with a string to keep its shape. Soak one-half 
hour in cold water, drain and cook in boiling salted ' 
water to which has been added two tablespoons vinegar. 
Eemove from water, place upside down to drain, and 
take off string. Cool and add the following dressing: 

Mix one tablespoon finely chopped parsley, one-half 
tablespoon finely chopped shallot, one teaspoon salt, one- 
eighth teaspoon pepper, three tablespoons olive oil, and 
two tablespoons vinegar. 

PEACH CEEAM. 
1 can peaches -J cup Sherry wine 

1 cup sugar 1 pint cream 

Juice 2 lemons Few grains salt 

Eub peaches with their syrup through a sieve. Add 
sugar, lemon juice and wine. Freeze to a mush, add 
cream whipped and salt. Let stand one-half hour. 

EAISIlSr CUP CAKES. 
i cup butter ^ cup milk 

1 cup sugar 2 cups flour 

2 eggs 3 teaspoons baking powder 
Yolk 1 egg 1 cup raisins 

1 tablespoon flour Shredded almonds 



220 What to Have for Dinner. 

Cream the butter, add sugar gradually, and eggs and 
egg yolks well beaten. Then add milk, flour mixed 
and sifted with baking powder, and raisins seeded and 
cut in pieces and dredged with one tablespoon flour. 
Beat vigorously and turn into buttered individual tins. 
Sprinkle tops with shredded almonds and powdered 
sugar and bake in a moderate oven. 



Company and Formal Dinners. 221 

COMPANY DINNERS. 

MENU NO. IX. 

"The ornaments of a house are the friends that fre- 
quent it." 

t 

Little Neck Clams. Celery. 

White Soup. 

Baked Halibut Slices. Dinner Rolls. 

Chicken a la Southern. Bacon Curls. 

Boiled New Potatoes. Corn Fritters. 

Tomato 4.nd Lettuce Salad. 

Cheese Brown Bread Sandwiches. 

Chocolate Parfait. Lady Fingers. 

Salted Pecans. Bonbons. 

Crackers. Cheese. 

Cafe Noir. 



222 What to Have for Dinner. 

LITTLE NECK CLAMS. 
(See p. 178j under Company Dinners, Menu No. II.) 

WHITE SOUP. 

(See p. 156, under Warm Weather Dinners, Menu 
No. II.) 

DINNEE EOLLS. 
(See p. 116, uncJer Christmas Dinners, Menu No. I.) 

BAKED HALIBUT SLICES. 

Wipe two slices halibut, each weighing one and one- 
fourth pounds, put in a buttered granite pan, and 
sprinkle with salt and pepper. Add three slices carrot, 
two slices onion, sprig of parsley, bit of bay leaf, six 
peppercorns and one tablespoon lemon juice; then pour 
over two cups boiling water. Bake twenty-five minutes 
in a hot oven, basting every five minutes. Arrange on 
hot serving dish, remove skin and bones, and cover fish 
with one-fourth pound mushroom caps sauted in butter 
five minutes. Pour over the following sauce: 

Melt two tablespoons butter, add two tablespoons 
flour and pour on gradually, while stirring constantly, 
liquor remaining in pan; there should be one cup. 
Strain, season with salt if necessary, and add slowly the 
yolk of one egg, slightly beaten, diluted with one- 
fourth cup cream. 

CHICKEN A LA SOUTHEEN, WITH BACON 
CUELS. 

Dress, clean and cut up two chickens. Sprinkle with 
salt and pepper; then dip in egg and fine bread crumbs. 
Place in a buttered dripping pan, and bake in a hot oven 



Company and Formal Dinners. 223 

twenty-five minutes, basting after first five minutes of 
cooking with one-half cup melted butter, and afterwards 
every five minutes with fat in pan. Arrange on hot 
serving dish and pour around two cups Cream Sauce. 
Garnish with Bacon Curls and serve Corn Fritters with 
this course. 

BACON CUELS. 

Cut bacon in very thin slices and remove rind. Place 
in a hot frying pan and' during the cooking, shape in 
the form of curls, using a knife and fork. Drain on 
brown paper. 

CKBAM SAUCE. 

^ cup butter 1 cup cream 

i cup fiour § teaspoon salt 

1 cup milk I teaspoon pepper 

Melt butter, add flour, and, when well blended, pour 
on gradually, while stirring constantly, milk and cream. 
Season with salt and pepper. 

CORN FRITTEES. 

2 cups grated corn -J cup melted buttei 

3 tablespoons milk 1 teaspoon salt 
1^ cups flour 3 eggs 

Mix first five ingredients in order given, and add eggs 
well beaten. Drop by spoonfuls on a hot, well-greased 
griddle and cook until browned on one side; turn and 
brown on other side. 

TOMATO AND LETTUCE SALAD. 

Peel and chill medium-sized tomatoes. Cut in halves 
crosswise und arrange each half in a small nest of let- 



224 What to Have for Dinner. 

tuce leaves. Garnish with Mayonnaise Dressing forced 
through a pastry bag and tube. (For Mayonnaise Dress- 
ing, see p. 76, under Family Dinners, Menu No. 
XVIII.) 

CREAMED CHEESE BROWN BREAD 
SANDWICHES. 

Steam brown bread in one-pound baking powder tins. 
Remove bread from tins, cool and cut in thin slices. 
Spread one-half the slices with creamed cheese and cover 
with remaining pieces. 

CHOCOLATE PARPAIT. 

2 cups milk 1^ squares chocolate 

1 cup sugar Few grains salt 

Yolks 3 eggs 2 cups thin cream 

2 teaspoons vanilla 

Make a custard of milk, sugar and yolks of eggs. 
Melt chocolate over hot water. Add a small quantity of 
the hot custard and beat until smooth, then add re- 
maining custard and salt. Strain, cool, add cream and 
vanilla ; then freeze. Line a mould with frozen mixture, 
fill with Italian Meringue, cover, pack in salt and ice 
and let stand three hours. 

ITALIAN MERINGUE. 

i cup sugar 1 teaspoon cold water 

^ cup water Whites 3 eggs 

i teaspoon granulated 1 cup thin cream 

gelatine 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Boil sugar and water together until syrup will form 
a soft ball when tried in cold water. Turn on the whites 



Company and Formal Dinners. 225 

of eggs (beaten until stiff), continuing the beating; 
then add dissolved gelatine. Set in pan of ice water 
and continue the beating until mixture is cold. Eold in 
the whip from cream and flavor. 

LADY FINGEES. 

Yolks 3 eggs Whites 3 eggs 

i cup powdered sugar ^ cup flour 

^ teaspoon vanilla 

Beat yolks of eggs until thick and lemon colored and 
add sugar gradually, continuing the heating; then add 
whites of eggs beaten stiff, and vanilla. Cut and fold 
in the flour, and shape on unbuttered paper placed on a 
tin sheet, using a pastry bag and tube. Sprinkle with 
powdered sugar and bake twelve minutes in a slow oven. 



226 What to Have for Dinner. 

COMPANY DINNERS. 

MENU NO. X. 

"All history attests 
That happiness for man, the hungry sinner, 
Since Eve ate apples, much depends on dinner." 

Consomme with Macaroni. 

Fish Cutlets, Dutch Sauce. Cucumber Ribbons. 

Glazed Sweetbreads with French Beans. 

Saddle of Lamb, Curried Vegetables. 

Currant Jelly Sauce. 

Broiled Wild Duck. Orange Salad. 

Frozen Neapolitan Charlotte. 

Marshmallow Wafers. 

Salted Almonds. Bonbons. 

Crackers. Cheese. 

CAPil NoiR. 



Company and Formal Dinners. 227 
CONSOMME WITH MACARONI. 

Serve eonsomm^ with rings of macaroni cooked in. 
boiling salted water until soft. 

FISH CUTLETS. 

Eemove skin and bones from a thick piece of halibut, 
finely chop fish and force through a sieve; there should 
be one and one-third cups. Pound in a mortar, adding 
gradually whites of two eggs. Add one and one-third 
cups heavy cream and season with salt, pepper and 
cayenne. Turn into buttered cutlet moulds, set in pan 
of hot water, cover with buttered paper and bake until 
fish is firm. Turn on a serving dish and pour around 
Dutch Sauce. 

BUTCH SAUCE. 

Yolks 3 eggs i teaspoon salt 

3 tablespoons olive oil 1 tablespoon chopped pars- 

i cup vinegar ley 

Few grains pepper 

Mix first four ingredients in a small sauce pan, place 
in a larger sauce pan containing hot water and cook over 
the fire, stirring constantly, until mixture thickens ; then 
add parsley. 

CUCUMBER RIBBONS. 

(See p. 147, under Easter Dinners, Menu No. II.) 

GLAZED SWEETBREADS. 

Parboil a sweetbread cut in two lengthwise, sprinkle 
with salt, dredge with flour and saut6 in butter until 
delicately browned. Add one-half cup white stock and 
cook until reduced to a glaze. Remove sweetbread to 



228 What to Have for Dinner. 

hot serving dish aiid pour over glaze. Serve with French 
beans. 

FEENCH BEANS. 

Drain one can French beans, put in strainer and pour 
over one quart cold water. Put in sauce pan, and add 
three tablespoons butter. When thoroughly heated sea- 
son with salt. 

SADDLE OF LAMB OR MUTTON. 

Order saddle dressed at market. Wipe, roll flaps 
under and tie in shape. Put on rack in dripping pan, 
sprinkle with salt and dredge meat and bottom of pan 
with flour. Bake in a hot oven, and baste every five 
minutes with one-third cup butter melted in one-half 
cup boiling water. Serve cooked rare with Currant 
Jelly Sauce. 

CUREANT JELLY SAUCE. 

^ cup sugar 2 teaspoons arrowroot 

^ glass currant jelly Cold water 

1 cup water i cup Sherry wine 

Mix sugar, jelly and water, bring to boiling point 
and let boil seven minutes. Dilute arrowroot with cold 
water until the mixture will pour easily. Add, gradu- 
ally, to boiling mixture, and let boil five minutes; then 
add Sherry wine. 

CURRIED VEGETABLES. 

Cook one cup each, potato and carrot dice, in boiling 
salted w^ater, until tender. Drain, add one cup green 
peas and one cup Curry Sauce. Sprinkle with finely 
chopped parsley. 



Company and Formal Dinners. 229 

CITEEY SAUCE. 

» tablespoons butter ^ teaspoon curry powder 

i onion, sliced f teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons flour I teaspoon pepper 

1 cup milk 

Cook butter with onion until yellow, add flour mixed 
with curry powder, salt, and pepper and pour on gradu- 
ally, while stirring constantly, milk. Strain and reheat 
vegetables in sauce. 

BEOILED WILD DUCKS. 

Dress, clean and wipe ducks. Sprinkle with salt and 
broil fifteen minutes. Eemove. to hot serving dish, 
spread with Maitre d'Hotel Butter (see p. Ill, under 
Thanksgiving Dinners, Menu No. II.) and garnish with 
watercress and slices of lemon. 

OEANGE SALAD. 

Eemove the pulp from five oranges and chill thor- 
oughly. Put in six champagne glasses and pour over 
the following dressing: 

Mix two tablespoons powdered sugar, two tablespoons 
finely chopped mint leaves, one tablespoon lemon juice 
and two tablespoons Sherry wine. Put a one-inch cube 
of currant jelly in each glass and garnish with a small 
sprig of fresh mint. 

FEOZEN ISTEAPOLITAlSr CHAELOTTE. 

To one quart heavy cream, add one and one-half cups 
sugar, one and one-half tablespoons vanilla and a few 
grains salt. Beat until stiff and add whites of six eggs. 



230 What to Have for Dinner. 

beaten until stiff, and three-fourths tablespoon granu- 
lated gelatine soaked in one tablespoon cold water and 
dissolved in one tablespoon hot water. Divide mixture 
into three equal parts, reserving one part. Color second 
part with leaf green and add one-half teaspoon almond 
extract; color third part with one square melted choco- 
late mixed, until a smooth paste is formed, with two 
tablespoons scalded cream. 

When mixture is stiff enough to mould, put white 
part in mould and sprinkle with candied cherries cut in 
small pieces, cover with second part and sprinkle with 
chopped pistachio nuts, and then add third part. 

Pack in salt and ice, and let stand two hours. 

MAESHMALLOW WAFEES. 

1 cup sugar Whites 2 eggs 

■J cup water ^ teaspoon vanilla 

10 marshmallows 1 cup pecan nut meats 

Saltines 

Boil sugar and water \intil syrup will thread when 
dropped from tip of spoon. Eemove to back of range 
and add marshmallows cut in small pieces. Pour over 
whites of eggs beaten until stiff, add nut meats broken 
in small pieces, and vanilla. Spread saltines with mix- 
ture, and bake in a slow oven until delicately browned. 



Company and Formal Dinners. 231 

FOEMAL DINNEES. 

MENU NO I. 

Their various cares in one great point combine 
The business of their lives, that is — to dine. 

— Young. 

Canapes of Finnan Haddie. 

Consomme Eoyal. Celeey. Beead Sticks. 

LOBSTEE JuANITAj DuTCII SauCE. 

MusHBOOM Ceoquettes. 

Chateaubeiand of Beef, Sauce Espagnol. 

Chateau Potatoes. Sauted Tomatoes. 

Stuffed Aetichokes. 

EoAST Quail. Sheeet's Deessed Lettuce. 

Feuit Souffle. Foamy Sauce. 

Almond Plombieee. Lady Fingees. 

Salted Pistachio Nuts. Bonbons. 

Cbackees. Cheese. 

Caf^ n6ie. 



232 What to Have for Dinner. 

CANAPfiS OF PIlSriSrAN HADDIE. 

Soak finnan haddie in lukewarm water to cover, set 
on back of range and let stand until fish may be sepa- 
rated easily into flakes; there should be one cup. Fry 
one-half tablespoon finely chopped onion and two 
chopped mushroom caps in three tablespoons butter five 
minutes. Add two tablespoons flour, and pour on grad- 
ually, while stirring constantly, two-thirds cup thin 
cream. As soon as boiling point is reached, add two 
tablespoons grated cheese, and yolks of two eggs, slightly 
beaten. Season with salt and cayenne. Cool and pile 
on circular pieces of toasted bread two inches in diame- 
ter. Sprinkle with grated cheese and buttered bread 
crumbs and bake until crumbs are brown. 

CONSOMMfi ROYAL. 

Serve Consomme (see p. 183, under Christmas Din- 
ners, Menu No. II.) with Eoyal Custard. 

ROYAL CUSTARD. 

1 egg ■ J cup milk 

2 egg yolks ^ teaspoon salt 

Few grains cayenne 

Beat eggs slightly, add milk and seasonings, and strain 
into a small slightly buttered pan. Set in pan of hot 
water, and bake until firm. Cool, remove from' mould 
and cut in small cubes or fancy shapes. 

BREAD STICKS. 

« 
(See p. 141, under Easter Dinners, Menu No. I.) 



Company and Formal Dinners. 233 

LOBSTER JUANITA, DUTCH SAUCE. 

2 lb. live lobster 2 eggs 

■J cup heavy cream | teaspoon salt 

i cup stale bread crumbs Few grains paprika 
■J cup Sherry wine 

Remove meat from lobster and force through a puree 
strainer. Add cream, bread crumbs, eggs, slightly 
beaten, salt, paprika and wine. Fill slightly buttered 
individual tin moulds two-thirds full of mixture. Set 
in pan of hot water, cover with buttered pan, and bake 
in a slow oven until firm. Remove from moulds to hot 
serving dish, and pour around 

DUTCH SAUCE. 

Yolks 2 eggs ^ cup hot water 

2 tablespoons olive oil -J teaspoon salt 
1 tablespoon vinegar Few grains cayenne 

1 teaspoon finely chopped parsley 

Mix egg yolks, olive oil, vinegar, and hot water. 
Cook over water until mixture thickens, stirring con- 
stantly. Add salt, cayenne and parsley. 

MUSHROOM CROQUETTES. 

Remove stems from three-fourths pound mushrooms, 
cover with one and one-half cups cold water and cook 
until liquor is reduced to two tablespoons; drain and 
reserve liquor. Peel mushroom caps, break in pieces, 
sprinkle with one-fourth teaspoon salt and saute in 
two tablespoons butter. Add one-fourth cup boiling 
water, cook one minute, and drain caps from liquor, 
reserving both. Melt two tablespoons butter, add four 
tablespoons bread flour and liquor reserved from both 
stems and caps; there should be two-thirds cup. Then 



234 What to Have for Dinner. 

add two tablespoons heavy cream, one-fourth teaspoon 
salt, a few grains paprika and sauted caps. Spread 
on a plate to cool. Shape one-half the mixture to 
represent mushroom caps, the remainder to repre- 
sent mushroom stems. Dip in crumbs, egg, and crumbs, 
fry in deep fat, and drain on brown paper. Place caps 
on stems and arrange croquettes on a folded napkin. 

CHATEAUBEIAND OF BEEP. 

Order a piece of beef, cut three inches thick, from 
the centre of the fillet. Trim off fat and skin and flat- 
ten with a cleaver or broad bladed knife to two inches 
in thickness. Sprinkle with salt, brush over with olive 
oil, and broil over a slow fire eighteen to twenty min- 
utes. A tenderloin steak cut two inches thick, or a tip 
of the sirloin roast with bones removed and meat 
trimmed and skewered into circular shape, may be sub- 
stituted for the fillet. 

SAUCE ESPAGNOL. 

3 tablespoons butter 4 tablespoons flour 

1 slice carrot IJ cups brown stock 

1 slice onion 1^ teaspoons meat extract 

Bit of bay leaf 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

Sprig of thyme 2 tablespoons chopped pars- 
Sprig of parsley ley 

^ teaspoon peppercorns 1 tablespoon butter 
Salt 

Cook the first seven ingredients over a slow fire until 
butter is browned. Add the fiour and, when well 
browned, stock and meat extract. Bring to boiling 
point and strain. Add lemon juice, parsley, the remain- 
ing butter, bit by bit, and season with salt. 



Company and Formal Dinners. 235 

CHATEAU POTATOES. 

Wash and pare medium-sized potatoes. Cut in three- 
fourths inch slices crosswise. Cut each slice until the 
shape of a quarter of an apple which has had the core 
removed. Soak one-half hour in cold water. Drain 
and cook in boiling salted water five minutes. Drain, 
put in a shallow pan, sprinkle with salt and dot over 
sparingly with butter. Bake until soft and well 
browned. 

SAUTfiD TOMATOES. 

Select medium-sized tomatoes, wipe and cut in quar- 
ters crosswise. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, dredge 
with flour, and saut^ in butter. 

STUFFED AETICHOKES. 

Boil artichokes and fill centres with the following 
■mixture, cover with buttered crumbs, and bake in a hot 
oven, until crumbs are brown. 

Cook one tablespoon finely chopped onion with two 
tablespoons butter until slightly yellow. Add one cup 
finely chopped cooked chicken or veal and one-half 
cup soft bread crumbs. Season with salt and pepper 
and moisten with Bechamel Sauce. 

EOAST QUAIL. 

Dress, clean and truss six quail. Wrap each bird in 
a thin slice fat salt pork, place in a small dripping pan, 
add one-fourth cup boiling water, cover closely, and 
bake fifteen minutes in a hot oven. Eemove cover and 
pork, and sprinkle birds with salt and pepper, brush 
over with butter, and dredge with flour. Bake fifteen 
minutes, basting three times during the baking. Serve 
on toast with a cube of currant jelly. 



236 What to Have for Dinner, 

SHEKRY'S DEESSED LETTUCE. 

Separate leaves from stalk of one head lettuce, dis- 
carding wilted outer leaves. Wash, drain and dry. Ar- 
range in salad bowl, in as near original shape as possi- 
ble, and pour over the following dressing: 

Mix one-half cup olive oil, five tablespoons vinegar, 
one teaspoon salt, one-half small Bermuda onion finely 
chopped, one tablespoon parsley finely chopped, four 
Shrewsbury red peppers and eight Shrewsbury green 
peppers. Cover, let stand one hour in a cool place, 
and shake vigorously five minutes. 

FRUIT SOUFFLfi. 

3 tablespoons butter Yolks 4 eggs 

J. cup flour ^ cup sugar 

1 cup scalded milk Whites 4 eggs 

Canned peaches 

Melt the butter, and add flour and pour on gradually, 
while stirring constantly, scalded milk. Beat yolks 
of eggs until thick and lemon colored, and add sugar, 
gradually, continuing the beating. 

Combine mixtures and cool; then fold in whites of 
eggs beaten until stiff and dry. Line a slightly but- 
tered pudding dish with peaches cut in quarters (using 
one-half can) and add three tablespoons peach syrup. 
Pour over prepared mixture and bake in a slow oven 
from forty to forty-flve minutes. Serve immediately, 
otherwise it is sure to fall. This may be served with- 
out sauce, but is greatly improved by the addition of a 
Foamy Sauce. 



Company and Formal Dinners. 237 

FOAMY SAUCE. 
■J cup butter 1 teaspoon vanilla 

1 cup powdered sugar Few grains salt < 

Whites 2 eggs i cup heavy cream 

Cream the butter and add sugar gradually, beating 
constantly. Put over hot water, add egg whites beaten 
until stiff, and beat, using a wire whisk, until well 
blended. Cool, and add flavoring, salt, and cream beaten 
until stiff. 

ALMOND PLOMBIfiEE. 

1 cup almonds 2 teaspoons vanilla 

2 cups milk 1 pint heavy cream 

1 tablespoon tea ^ cup, each, candied pine- 

Yolks 4 eggs apple and candied apricot, 

1 cup sugar cut in small pieces 

^ teaspoon salt ^ cup Kirsch 

Blanch almonds and grind very fine; Put in mortar 
and add, gradually, one-half the milk and rub to a paste. 
Put tea in remainder of milk and scald. Beat yolks 
of eggs slightly, add sugar and pour on, gradually, 
the scalded milk. Cook over hot water until mixture 
thickens, strain through cheese cloth and add milk and 
almonds. Flavor, add cr^am and freeze. Put a layer 
in brick mould, cover with candied fruit soaked in 
Kirsch two hours, and so continue until mould is full. 
Cover, pack in salt and ice, and let stand two hours. 

SALTED PISTACHIO NUTS. 
Blanch one-fourth pound pistachio nuts and dry on a 
towel. Put in a small omelet pan with one-half table- 
spoon butter and stir constantly until nuts are deli- 
cately browned. Drain on brown paper and sprinkle 
sparingly with salt. 



238 What to Have for Dinner. 

FOKMAL DINNEES. 

MENU NO. II. 

There's no want of meat. Sir; 

Portly arid curious viands are prepared. 

To please all hinds of appetites. 

— Massinger. 

Eaw Oysters, Grated Horseradish. 

Brown Bread Sandwiches. 

Consomme au Parmesan. Pulled Bread. 

Fried Sardines. Hot Tartare Sauce. 

German Patties with Chicken and Mushrooms. 

Crown of Lamb. Fried Potato Balls. Green Peas. 

Roasted Pigeon, Grape Fruit Salad. 

Cabinet Pudding, White Wine Sauce. 

Ice Cream Croquettes. Orange Circles. 

Salted Pecans. Crystallized Mint Leaves. 

Water Thins. Camembert Cheese. 

Cafe Noir. 



Company and Formal Dinners. 239 
EAW OYSTERS. 

Serve oysters in deep halves of shells on a plate of 
finely crushed ice, allowing six or seven to each person. 
Garnish with slices of lemon and parsley, or serve 
in individual ice cases on a folded napkin. 

Pass salt, pepper, grated horseradish root and brown 
bread sandwiches with this course. 

INDIVIDUAL ICE CASES. 

Take three and one-half inch cubes clear ice and, 
with a hot timbale iron, melt cavities large enough to 
hold six or seven oysters. 

BEOWN BEEAD SANDWICHES. 

Steam brown bread in one-pound baking powder tins. 
Eemove from moulds, cool and cut in thin slices. But- 
ter one-half the slices sparingly, cover with remaining 
slices, and cut in halves. Pile on plate covered with a 
doiley. 

CONSOMMfi. 

2 lbs. beef, poorer part of 1 quart chicken stock 

round 2 tablespoons butter 

2 lbs. knuckle of veal 1 tablespoon salt 

1 lb. marrow bone 13 peppercorns 

2 quarts cold water 3 cloves 

^ cup, each, carrot, onion 2 sprigs parsley 
and celery, cut in small 1 sprig marjoram 
pieces i bay leaf 

Wipe meat, cut in one-half inch cubes and brown one- 
half in marrow from marrow bone; put remainder in 
soup kettle with cold water, add browned meat, veal cut 
in pieces and bones. Let stand one-half hour, heat 



240 What to Have for Dinner. 

slowly to boiling point, and let simmer four hours. Add 
chicken stock and simmer one hour. Cook vegetables 
in butter five minutes. Add to soup with seasonings 
and simmer one and one-half hours. Strain, cool 
quickly, remove fat, and clear. 

CONSOMMS) AU PAEMBSAK 

Put grated Parmesan cheese in a small glass serving 
dish, and pass with consomme. 

PULLED BREAD. 
(See p. 203, under Company Dinners, Menu No. VI.) 

FRIED SARDINES. 

Remove sardines from box and pour over boiling wa- 
ter to free from oil. Take off skin, using a knife 
and fork, care being taken not to break fish. Dip in 
batter, fry in deep fat, and drain on brown paper. 
Arrange on hot serving dish, garnish with fried parsley 
and serve with Hot Tartare Sauce. (See p. 87, under 
Family Dinners, Menu No. XXI.) 

Batter. 

Mix and sift one and one-fourth cups flour, two tea- 
spoons baking powder and one-fourth teaspoon salt. 
Add gradually two-thirds cup milk, mixed with one egg, 
well beaten. 

GERMAN PATTIES WITH CHICKEN AND 
MUSHROOMS. 

Cut stale bread in two-inch slices and cut slices in 
two-inch squares; with a sharp pointed knife remove 



Company and Formal Dinners. 241 

centres making cases having walls one-fourtii inch in 
thickness. Dip cases in egg slightly, beaten, diluted 
with milk and chicken stock and seasoned with salt, 
allowing two tablespoons milk and one tablespoon stock 
to each egg. It will require three eggs for six patties. 
When bread is thoroughly soaked drain cases and fry 
in deep fat until delicately browned. Fry but, two at 
a time J if more are attempted, the temperature of the 
fat will be reduced sufficiently to make the work un- 
satisfactory. Fill with chicken and mushroom filling. 
Grerman patties may be filled with any creamed fish or 
meat mixture. 

CHICKEN AND MUSHEOOM FILLING FOR 
GERMAN PATTIES. 

8 mushrooms 2 cups cold cooked chicken, 

3 tablespoons butter cut in dice 

3 tablespoons flour -J cup cream 

1 cup chicken stock Yolks 3 eggs 

i cup finely cut celery 1 tablespoon lemon juice 
Salt and Pepper 

Clean mushrooms; peel caps, break in halves and 
saute in butter five minutes; then add flour, chicken 
stock, and, when boiling point is reached, add chicken 
and celery. Just before serving, add cream, egg yolks, 
lemon juice, and seasonings. Heat very hot and serve 
in German patty cases or Swedish timbales. 

CROWN OF LAMB. 

Select parts from two loins containing ribs, scrape 
flesh from bones between ribs, as far as lean meat and 
trim off backbone. Shape each piece in a semi-circle. 



242 What to Have for Dinner. 

having ribs outside, and sew pieces together to form a 
crown. 

Place on rack in dripping pan, rub with salt, and 
dredge meat and bottom of pan with flour. Wrap each 
bone in a thin strip of fat salt pork, and cover top with 
a piece of buttered paper. Eoast in a hot oven one and 
one-foufth hours, basting with fat in pan every fifteen 
minutes. Place meat on hot serving dish, remove pork 
from bones and garnish bones with paper frills. Fill 
centre of crown with green peas and surround with 
fried potato balls. 

A crown of lamb may be ordered to be prepared at 
the market. 

GEEEN PEAS. 

Open one can peas, put in puree strainer, pour over 
three quarts cold water, and let stand one-half hour. 
Put in sauce pan, with four tablespoons butter, and one- 
half teaspoon, each, sugar and salt. Bring to boiling 
point, and serve very hot. 

FEIED POTATO BALLS. 

Wash and pare large potatoes, and shape into small 
balls, using a French vegetable cutter. Soak in cold 
water, one hour, drain and dry on a towel. Fry in deep 
fat until well browned, and soft throughout, the time 
required being about ten minutes. Drain on brown 
paper, and sprinkle with salt. 

EOASTED PIGEONS. 

Clean, stuff and truss pigeons. Place on rack in drip- 
ping pan, sprinkle with salt and pepper and dredge 
birds and bottom of pan with flour. Put a short stalk 



Company and Formal Dinners. 243 

of celery on each breast and cover with a thin slice of 
fat bacon. Place in hot oven, and, when well browned, 
reduce heat and baste. Continue basting every ten 
minutes until birds are cooked, using one-fourth cup 
butter melted in one-half cup boiling water. 

STUFFING. 

Shell and blanch chestnuts, cook in boiling salted 
water until soft, and drain. Pound in a mortar with the 
marrow from a marrow bone and add one teaspoon salt, 
one-eighth teaspoon pepper, two tablespoons milk, and 
one-fourth cup cracker crumbs. 

GEAPE FEUIT SALAD. 

Select long green peppers, cut in halves, lengthwise, 
remove seeds, and fill with grape and fruit pulp, celery 
and apple, both finely cut, and pecan nut meats, broken 
in pieces ; using half as much, each, of celery and apple 
as grape fruit and allowing three nut meats to each 
case. Arrange on lettuce leaves and garnish with 
Mayonnaise Dressing. 

CABINET PUDDING. 

Cream three tablespoons butter, add four tablespoons 
sugar, the yolks of two eggs well beaten, grated rind 
one-half lemon, and one tablespoon lemon Juice. Ee- 
move the crust from one-half a five-cent loaf and crumb. 
Add three-fourths cup milk, one-third cup citron, finely 
cut, and whites two eggs, beaten stiff. Combine mix- 
tures. Soak macaroons in Sherry wine to cover. Line 
a melon mould with bread mixture, cover with soaked 
macaroons and so continue until all is tfsed, having 



244 What to Have for Dinner. 

last layer of bread mixture. Cover closely, and steam 
two and one-half hours. Eemove from mould and serve 
with 

WHITE WINE SAUCE. 

Mix one-half cup sugar, one-half tablespoon corn- 
starch, grated rind and juice of one-half lemon, yolks 
of two eggs, slightly beaten, and one cup white wine. 
Place sauce pan containing mixture, over range, and 
stir constantly until boiling point is reached ; then add 
whites of eggs, beaten until stiff. 

COFFEE ICE CEEAM. 

i cup ground coffee 1^ cups sugar 

1 cup milk 1 quart cream 

Yolks 4 eggs English walnut meats, 

i teaspoon salt finely chopped 

3 tablespoons brandy 

Scald milk with coffee and add gradually to egg 
yolks slightly Taeaten and mixed with sugar and salt. 
Cook over hot water until mixture thickens, then add 
one cup cream and let stand on back of range twenty 
minutes. Cool, add remaining cream and brandy. 
Strain through double thickness of cheese cloth and 
freeze very stiff. Shape with a scoop, made for the 
purpose in individual pyramid forms, and roll in nut 
meats. Tho brandy may be omitted. 

OEANGE CIRCLES. 

3 tablespoons butter Grated rind 1 orange 

f cup sugar Few grains salt 

Juice 1 orange If cups flour 

Put butter and grated rind in a bowl and work untU 



Company and Formal Dinners. 245 

creamy, using a wooden spoon. Add sugar, gradually, 
continuing the beating; then add salt and orange juice 
and flour, a little at a time. Toss on a floured board, 
pat and roll to one-eighth inch in thickness. Shape 
with a circular cutter, first dipped in flour, put on a 
sheet covered with a buttered paper, and bake in a 
moderate oven. 



246 What to Have for Dinner. 

FORMAL DINNERS, 

MENU NO. III. 

"Though my stomach was sharp 
I could scarce help regretting. 
To spoil such a delicate picture by eating." 

GrEAPB Fruit. 

Chicken Consomme with Otsteks. Bread Sticks. 

Devilled Crabs. 

Chicken Mousse with Sautbrne Jelly. 

Saddle oe Mutton. 

•White Potato Croquettes. 

Carrots and Turnips a la Poulette. 

Currant Mint SbRBET. 

Mushrooms au Casserole. 

Boast Grouse, Bread Sauce. Watercress Salad. 

WiLLARD Souffl:^. Strawbeery Ice Cream. 

Salted Almonds. Bonbons. 

Crackers. Cheese. 

Caeb Noik. 



Company and Formal Dinners. 247 
GEAPE FEUIT. 

Wipe grape fruit and cut in halves crosswise. With 
a small sharp pointed knife make a cut separating pulp 
from skin around entire circumference; then make cuts 
separating pulp from tough portion which divides fruit 
into sections. Remove tough portion in one piece, which 
may be accomplished by one cut with the scissors at 
stem, or blossom end, close to skin. Sprinkle fruit pulp 
left in skin generously with sugar and pour over each 
half one teaspoon, each, gin and Cherry Cordial. Let 
stand five minutes in a cold place. Place on fruit plates, 
allowing one-half grape fruit to each person. 

CHICKEN CONSOMMfi WITH OYSTERS. 

Wash one pint small oysters and parboil in their own 
liquor. Remove oysters and add oyster liquor to five 
cups highly seasoned chicken stock. Clear stock, using 
the whites of two eggs and two egg shells. Reheat 
and add parboiled oysters. 

BREAD STICKS. 
(See_p. 141, under Easter Dinners, Menu No. I.) 

DEVILLED CRABS. 

2 tablespoons butter 1 teaspoon finely chopped 

1 slice onion parsley 

2 tablespoons flour 1 cup chopped orab meat 
^ teaspoon mustard 6 mushroom caps, finely 
§ cup white stock chopped 

3 tablespoons Sherry wine Salt 

i teaspoon beef extract Cayenne 
Yolks 2 eggs Bread crumbs 



248 What to Have for Dinner. 

Cook butter with onion three minutes. Add flour 
mixed with mustard and pour on, gradually, white stock, 
Sherry wine, and beef extract; then add parsley. Bring 
to boiling point, and add egg yolks and crab meat. When 
well mixed, add mushroom caps and season with salt and 
cayenne. Wash and trim crab shells, fill rounding with 
mixture, sprinkle with stale bread crumbs, mixed with 
a small quantity of melted butter. Bake until crumbs 
are brown. 

CHICKEN MOUSSE. 

1 cup chicken stock 1 tablespoon cold water 

Yolks 3 eggs ^ cup cooked chicken 
i teaspoon salt (white meat) 

J teaspoon paprika i cup blanched almonds 

1 tablespoon granulated 1 cup heavy cream, beaten 
gelatine stiff 

Few grains cayenne 

Beat egg yolks slightly, add salt and paprika, and 
pour over, gradually, chicken stock which has been 
heated. Cook over hot water until mixture thickens, 
add gelatine soaked in cold water and, when dissolved, 
strain and add to chicken and almonds, finely chopped, 
pounded, and forced through a sieve. Season highly 
with salt and cayenne. Put in ice water and stir until 
mixture thickens, then fold in the cream beaten stiff. 
Turn into the shell of Sauterne Jelly and chill. 

This makes a very attractive dish, moulded individu- 
ally. 

SAUTERNE JELLY. 

2 tablespoons granulated IJ cups Sauteme wine 
gelatine 3 tablespoons lemon juice 

^ cup cold water 3 tablespoons sugar 

IJ cups boiling water Green coloring 



Company and Formal Dinners. 249 

Soak gelatine in coM water, twenty minutes, and dis- 
solve in boiling water. Add Sauterne wine, lemon juice, 
and sugar. Color with leaf green, and strain. 

Line a mould with jelly one inch in thickness, and 
fill the centre with chicken mousse. 

SADDLE OF MUTTON. 

Order a saddle of mutton dressed at market. Wipe 
meat, sprinkle with salt and pepper, place on rack in 
dripping pan, and dredge meat and bottom of pan with 
flour. Bake in a hot oven one and one-fourth hours, 
basting every fifteen minutes with fat in pan. 

WHITE POTATO CROQUETTES. 

To two cups hot rieed potatoes add two tablespoons 
butter, one-half teaspoon salt, one-eighth teaspoon pep- 
per, few grains cayenne and yolk one egg. Beat thor- 
oughly, shape as desired, dip in crumbs, egg and crumbs^ 
fry in deep fat, and drain on brown paper. 

CARROTS AND TURNIPS A LA POULBTTE. 

Wash, scrape and cut carrots in fancy shapes; there 
should be one cup. Wash, pare and cut turnips in fancy 
shapes; there should be one cup. Cover vegetables with 
boiling water and let stand five minutes. Drain and cook 
in boiling salted water, to which is added one-half 
tablespoon butter, until soft. Drain and add to the 
following sauce: 

Melt three tablespoons butter, add three tablespoons 
flour, and pour on, gradually, one cup white stock. 
When boiling point is reached, add one-half cup cream, 
the yolks of two eggs and one-half tablespoon lemon 
juice. Season with salt and pepper. 



250 What to Have for Dinner. 

CURRANT MINT-SOEBET. 

1 glass currant jelly 2^ cups boiling water 

1^ tablespoons finely Shaviiigs from the rind of 

chopped mint leaves | orange 

1 tablespoon lemon juice 

Beat jelly, using a silver fork and dissolve in boiling 
water. Add remaining ingredients and freeze to a mush. 
Serve in small glasses and garnish' each with a sprig 
of fresh mint. 

MUSHROOMS EN" CASSEROLE. 

Wash one pound mushrooms, remove caps and break 
in pieces. Dot over a casserole dish with small bits 
of butter, and add mushroom caps. Season with salt 
and pepper, and sprinkle with chopped truffles. Add 
three-fourths cup cream, cover, and cook until mush- 
rooms are tender. Just before serving, add Sherry 
wine to taste. 

ROAST GROUSE. 

Press, clean, lard and truss grouse. Place on trivet 
in shallow pan; rub with salt, brush over with melted 
butter, dredge with flour, and surround with trimmings 
of fat salt pork. Bake twenty-five minutes in a hot 
oven, basting three times during the cooking. Remove 
to hot serving dish, take off string, remove skewers, 
and pour around Bread Sauce. 

Sprinkle bird and sauce with coarse browned bread 
srumbs and garnish with parsley. 

BREAD SAUCE. 

2 cups milk 6 peppercorns 

^ onion ^ cup bread crumbs 

4 cloves i teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons butter 



Company and Formal Dinners. 251 

Scald milk with onions, cloves and peppercorns, 
strain, add bread crumbs and cook in double boiler 
twenty minutes. Add salt and butter. 

WATEECEESS SALAD. 

Wash, remove roots, drain and chill two bunches 
watercress. Arrange in salad bowl, and pour over two 
tablespoons vinegar mixed with one-half teaspoon salt 
and a few grains paprika. 

WILLAED SOUFFLfi. 

li tablespoons butter 3 tablespoons powdered su- 

2 tablespoons flour gar 

i cup milk Whites 3 eggs 

Yolks 2 eggs Fresh strawberries 

Melt butter, add flour, and when well blended, pour 
on, gradually, while stirring constantly, milk. Beat 
yolks of eggs until thick and lemon colored and add, 
gradually, while beating constantly, powdered sugar. 
Combine mixtures, cool slightly, and cut and fold in 
whites of eggs beaten until stiff and dry. Cover bot- 
tom of individual cases with strawberries cut in halves 
and sprinkle with sugar. Put in mixture to fill cases 
three-fourths full, and bake in a slow oven until firm 
and delicately browned. 

Serve with each souffle a slice of Strawberry Ice 
Cream. 

STEAWBEEEY .ICE CEEAM. 

(See p. 183, under Company Dinners, Menu No. II.) 



252 What to Have for Dinner. 

FOEMAL DINNEES. 

MENU NO. IV. 

"Those palates which must have inventions to delight 
the taste." 

Oyster Cocktail. Saltines. 

Mushrooms and Sago Soup. Dinner Braids. 

LoBSTEi^ Chops. Cucumber Boats. Sauce Tartaee. 

Swedish Timbales with Calf's Brains. 

Larded Fillet oe Beep with Truffles. 

Brown Mushroom Sauce. 

Potato Eings. Flageolets. Buttered Carrots. 

Asparagus with Mousseline Sauce. 

Dressed Lettuce. Cheese Fingers. 

Apricot and Wine Jelly with Pistachio Bisque 

Ice Cream. 

Cream Sponge Balls. 

Salted Almonds. ' Bonbons. 

Water Thins. Neufchatel Cheese. 

Caf^: Noir. 



Company and Formal Dinners. 253 

OYSTER COCKTAILS. 

Allow six small oysters to each cocktail and pour 
over a dressing made of Sherry, salt and cayenne, using 
two tablespoons Sherry and a few grains each, salt and 
cayenne to each cocktail. Let oysters stand in sauce 
in a very cold place for fifteen minutes before serving. 

MUSHROOM AND SAGO SOUP. 

i lb. mushrooms f teaspoon salt 

1 quart chicken stock Few grains pepper 

3 tablespoons pearl sago 1 cup cream 

1 cup boiling water Yolks 2 eggs 

Clean and chop mushrooms, add to stock, bring to 
boiling point and cook twenty minutes; then rub 
through a sieve. Cook sago in water twenty minutes, 
add to stock, then add salt, pepper, cream and egg 
yolks. 

DINNER BRAIDS. 

1 cup scalded milk Few gratings from the rind 

2 tablespoons butter of a lemon 

1 tablespoon sugar f yeast cake, dissolved in 

i teaspoon salt i cup lukewarm water 

Flour 

Add butter, sugar, salt and grated rind to milk; 
when lukewarm, add dissolved yeast cake and one and 
one-half cups flour. Beat thoroughly, cover, and let 
rise until light. Cut down, add enough flour to knead 
(about one and one-fourth cups will be required), then 
knead. Let rise again, toss on floured board, shape in 
small sticks; then shape sticks into braids. Place in 
buttered pan, some distance apart, cover, let rise until 
light, and bake in a hot oven. 



254 What to Have for Dinner. 

LOBSTEE CHOPS. 

2 cups chopped lobster 2 teaspoons lemon juice 

meat Yolk 1 egg 

f teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon parsley, chopped 

Few grains cayenne finely 

1 cup Thick White Sauce 

Mix ingredients in order given and add white sauce. 
Spread on a plate to cool ; then shape in form of chops. 
Dip in crumbs, egg and crumbs, fry in deep fat, and 
drain on brown paper. Insert a small claw in small 
end of each chop and arrange around a mound of pars- 
ley or watercress. 

THICK WHITj: SAUCE. 

Melt three tablespoons butter, add one-third cup flour, 
and pour on, gradually, while stirring constantly, one 
cup milk or one-half cup each, milk and white stock. 
Bring to boiling point, and season with one-fourth tea- 
spoon salt and one-eighth teaspoon pepper. 

CUCUMBEE BOATS, SAUCE TAETAEE. 

Select three long, regular shaped cucumbers, cut a 
thin slice from both the stem and blossom end of each, 
and cut in halves crosswise. Eemove pulp, and seeds, 
if possible, in sufficiently large pieces to cut in cubes for 
another salad. Cut sections so as to make boat shape. 
Arrange each boat on a single lettuce leaf, and fill with 

SAUCE TAETAEE. 
(See p. 17, under Family Dinners, Menu No. IV.) 



Company and Formal Dinners. 255 

SWEDISH TIMBALES. 

J Clip cornstarch i cup beer or 

i cup flour Same quantity liquid, using 

J teaspoon salt equal parts milk and wa- 

Yolks 2 eggs ter 

1 tablespoon olive oil 

Mix dry ingredients, add liquid gradually, and beaten 
yolks of eggs; then add olive oil. Shape, using a hot 
timbale iron, fry in deep fat until crisp and brown; 
take from iron and drain on brown paper. 

CEEAMED CALF'S BEAINS. 

Soak calf's brains in cold salted water one hour. 
Eemove blood vessels and cook in boiling, salted, acidu- 
lated water, twenty minutes. Drain and plunge into 
cold water to harden. When cold, cut in three-fourths 
inch cubes and add to the following sauce: 

Melt three tablespoons butter, add one slice onion 
and cook until yellow; then add three tablespoons flour, 
and pour on, gradually, one-half cup calf's head stock 
and one-half cup milk. Bring to boiling point, remove 
onion, and add one-fourth cup cream, yolks of two eggs 
and one tablespoon lemon juice. Season with salt and 
cayenne. Do not allow sauce to reach the boiling point 
after the cream and egg yolks have been added. 

LAEDED FILLET OP BEEP WITH TEUPPLES. 

Wipe, remove fat, veins and any tendinous portions 
from a fillet of beef. Lard upper side with grain 
of meat, and between lardoons insert small pieces of 
truffle, using a sharp pointed knife to make cuts. Use 
one truffle for the fillet. Place meat on rack in small 



2^6 What to Have for Dinner. 

dripping pan, sprinkle with salt and dredge with flour, 
and put four thin slices of fat salt pork in pan. Bake 
thirty-five minutes in a hot oven, basting three times 
with fat in pan. Eemove to hot serving dish and pour 
around Brown Mushroom Sauce. Serve with flageolets 
and buttered carrots. 

BROWN MTJSHEOOM SAUCE. 

i lb. mushrooms 1^ cups brown stock 

3 tablespoons butter 1 trufSe 

3 tablespoons flour Salt 

Paprika 

Clean mushrooms, remove caps and finely chop. 
Break stems in pieces and cook in butter five minutes. 
Add fiour and pour on, gradually, brown stock. Bring 
to boiling point and cook three minutes. Strain, sea- 
son with salt and paprika ; again bring to boiling point 
and add chopped raw mushroom caps and one finely 
chopped trufile. Serve at once. 

POTATO EINGS. 

Wash and pare medium-sized potatoes and cut in one- 
fourth inch slices. Cut each slice round and round, 
having each spiral paring about one-fourth inch in 
thickness, taking care not to break the parings. Fasten 
with small wooden skewers in spiral shapes; cover with 
cold water, and let stand one hour. Dry thoroughly 
between towels and fry in hot fat until crisp and brown. 
Drain on brown paper and sprinkle wth salt. Serve 
immediately. If allowed to stand for any length of 
time, they soften. If many are to be fried, after taking 
rings from fat, do not sprinkle with salt, but just before 



Company and Formal Dinners. 257 

eerving time return to fat that they may become crisp, 
then sprinkle with salt. 



BUTTEKED CAREOTS. 

Wash, scrape and cut carrots in one-eighth inch slices ; 
and cut slices in one-eighth inch strips. Cook in boil- 
ing salted water until tender. Drain, season with salt 
and butter and serve very hot. This is an excellent way 
to serve old carrots. 

FLAGEOLETS. 

Drain and rinse with cold water one can flageolets. 
Put in a sauce pan with one-fourth cup butter, one- 
half teaspoon salt and a few grains cayenne. Bring 
to boiling point and serve at once. 

BOILED ASPARAGUS. 

Untie bunches of asparagus and wash. Rearrange in 
bunches and tie with a string. Cook in boiling salted 
water, twenty minutes, having asparagus stand in water 
to two inches of the tips. Turn on side and cook ten 
minutes. Drain, remove string and pour over Mousse- 
line Sauce. 

MOUSSELINE SAUCE. 

3 egg yolks Pepper 

^ cup heavy cream Salt 

J cup butter -J tablespoon lemon juice 

Beat yolks of eggs until thick and lemon colored, 
add cream and cook over hot water, stirring constantly 
until mixture thickens. Add butter and seasonings and 
serve immediately. 



258 What to Have for Dinner. 

CHEESE FINGEES. 
2 tablespoons butter ^ teaspoon salt 

i cup boiling water Few grains cayenne 

^ cup flour 1 egg 

^ cup grated cheese 1 egg white 

Put butter and water into a sauce pan and when boil- 
ing point is reached, add flour, all at one time, salt and 
cayenne, and stir Until mixture cleaves from sides of 
pan. Beat in the cheese, egg unbeaten, and white of 
egg unbeaten. Shape mixture three inches long by one- 
half inch wide on a buttered sheet. Sprinkle with 
grated . cheese and bake, fifteen minutes, in a moderate 
oven. 

APEICOT AND WINE JELLY. 

Kemove one-half the pieces of fruit frgm one can 
apricots, and put aside for garnishing. Eub remaining 
apricots and syrup through a puree strainer and add 
two-thirds cup sugar, one tablespoon lemon juice, three- 
fourths cup Sherry wine and two tablespoons granu- 
lated gelatine soaked in one-half cup cold wateii, and 
then dissolved over hot water. 

Pour into rectangular border mould and, when firm, 
turn on serving dish; fill centre with a brick of pis- 
tachio bisque ice cream, and garnish with preserved 
apricots and halves of blanched almonds. 

PISTACHIO BISQUE ICE CEEAM. 

4 cups milk 1 tablespoon vanilla 

1 cup heavy cream 1 teaspoon almond extract 

1^ cups sugar ^ cup, each, almonds and 

•J teaspoon salt pistachio nuts, fijiely 

1 junket tablet chopped 
1 tablespoon cold water Green coloring 



Company and Formal Dinners. 259 

Mix first four ingredients and add junket tablet, dis- 
solved in cold water. Turn into a shallow dish and let 
stand over-night in a cold place. Add flavoring, color- 
ing, and nuts. Freeze and mould in brick shape. 

CEEAM SPONGE BALLS. 

Yolks 3 eggs Flour 

f cup sugar 1 teaspoon baking powder 

2 tablespoons cold water ^ teaspoon salt 
1 tablespoon cornstarch Whites 3 eggs 
f teaspoon lemon extract 

Beat yolks of eggs until thick and lemon colored, 
add sugar gradually, continuing the beating, then beat 
two minutes and add water. Put cornstarch in a cup 
and fill cup two-thirds full of flour. Mix and sift corn- 
starch and flour with baking powder and salt, and add 
to first mixture. When thoroughly mixed add whites 
of eggs beaten until stiff, and flavoring. Bake in but- 
tered individual tins known as snowball pans. 



INDEX. 



Almond Cakes, 127. 

Plombiere, 237. 

Pudding, 81. 
Almonds, Boiled Salted, 150. 

Salted, 120. 
Anchovy CanapSs, 135. 
Apple and Chestnut Salad, 
132. 

Charlotte, 6. 

Dumplings, 97. 

Spiced a la Lyman, 27. 
Apples, Frozen, 124. 

Stuffed, 193. 

Stuffed, en surprise, 118. 
Appledore Bean Soup, 95. 
Apricot and Wine Jelly, 258. 
Artichoke Salad, 219. 
Articholvcs, 89. 

Stuffed, 235. 
Asparagus, Boiled, 187, 257. 

In Lemon Kings, 153. 

Salad, 56. 
Austrian Potatoes, 48. 

Bacon Curls, 223. 
Balls, Chestnut, 89. 

Egg, 191. 

Potato, 181, 242. 

Swedish Meat, 167. 
Baltimore Relish, 60. 
Bananas, SautSd, 168. 
Baskets, Tomato anj Cu- 
cumber, 212. 
Batter, 240. 

Bavarian Cream, Chocolate, 
138, 



Bean Salad, 168. 

Soup, Appledore, 95. 

Soup, Black, 13. 
Beans, Dried Lima, 5. 

French, 228. 

French String, 67. 

Green String, 71. 

Shelled, 60. 
BSchamel, Celery au, 205. 

Sauce, 70. 

Yellow, Sauce, 217. 
Beef, Braised, 26. 

Chateaubriand of, 234. 

Fillet of, a la Jardinifere, 
180. 

Fillets of. Sauted, 199. 

Larded Fillet of, with 
Truffles, 255. 

Rib Roast of, 4. 

Tournedos of, 186. 
Beef Steak a la Henriette, 39. 

Broiled Porterhouse, 18. 

Broiled with clam blanket, 
63. 
Beets, Boiled, 48. 

Sauce Piquante, 40. 
Bernaise Sauce, 172. 
Biscuit, Shrewsbury, 189. 
Bisque Ice Cream, Pistachio 
258. 

Lobster, 185. 

Soup, 8. 

Soup Tomato, 135. 
Black Bean Soup, 13. 
Blue Fish a la Lee, Baked, 47, 

Baked, 59. 



Index. 



Boston Pudding, 15. 
Bouchges of Lambs' Sweet- 
breads, 142. 
Bouillon, Clam, 83. 

Clam with Whipped Cream, 
152. 

Court, 87. 
Braids, Dinner, 253. 
Brains, Creamed Calf's, 255. 
Brandied Pears, 183. 
Brandy Sauce, 108. 

Sauce, Foamy, 120. 

Sauce, Peach, 97. 

Snaps, 53. 
Bread Pudding, Cold Choco- 
late, 56. 

Pulled, 203. 

Rings, 130. 

Sauce, 131, 250. 

Sticks, 141. 
Breaded Lamb Fillets, 92. 
Brown Bread Sandwiches, 
239. 

Creamed Cheese, 224. 
Brown Gravy, 4, 103, 218. 

Mushroom Sauce, 125, 256. 

Sauce, 212. 

Soup, 70. 

Soup Stock, 30. 

Walnut Sauce, 180. 
Browned Crackers, 51. 

Soup Rings, 122. 

Sweetbreads, 211. 

Sweet Potatoes, 13. 
Brussels Sprouts, 52, 218. 

Boiled, 132. 
Butter, Maitre d'Hotel, 19. 

Sauce, 96. 
Buttered Carrots, 257. 

Croutons, 135. 

Cabbage Escal loped, 63. 
Cabinet Pudding, 243. 

Peach, 93. 
Cafe Noir, Boiled, 11. 

Filtered, 28. 
Cakes, Almond, 127. 

Raisin Cup, 219. 

Sponge, 114. 
Calf's Brains, Creamed, 255. 

Head, 95. 



Calves' Tongues, IBoiled, 44. 
California Boiled ' Dressing, 
56. 

Salad, 76. 
Canapes, Caviare, 191. 

Finnan Haddie, 232. 

lobster, 171. 

Smoked Salmon and An- 
chovy, 135. 
Canton Mousse, 206. 
Caper Sauce, I., 83. 
Caper Sauce, II., 84. 
Caramel Nut Ice Cream, 188. 
Carrot Soup, 26. 
Carrots a la Poulette, 84. 

Buttered, 257. 

Creamed, 23. 

Glazed, 181. 

In White Sauce, 103. 
Carrots and Turnips a la 

Poulette, 249. 
Cauliflower au Gratin, 138. 

Creamed, 118, 137. 

Vol-au-vent, 36. 
Caviare Canapes, 191. 
Celery and Cream Cheese 
Salad, 67. 

Au Bechamel, 205. 

Consomme, 116. 

Sauce, 31. 

Soup, Cream of, 51. 

Stewed, 14. 
Charlotte, Apple, 6. 

Frozen Neapolitan, 229. 

Russe, 67. 
Chateau Potatoes, 235. 
Chateaubriand of Beef, 234. 
Cheese Bread Wafers, 158. 

Brown Bread Sandwiches, 
224. 

Croquettes, 194. 

Eggs, 149. 

Fingers, 258. 

Moulded, 182. 

Salad, 40. 

Sandwiches, 15. 

Souffle, 138. 
Cherry Mint Sorbet, 174. 
Chestnut & Apple Salad, 132. 

Balls, 89. 

Stuffing, 52, 118. 



Index. 



Chestnut^ Glazed, 205. 
Chicken a la Southern, 222. 

Boiled, 187. 

Consomme, 247. 

And Corn Soup, 43. 

Croquettes. 217. 

Custard, 178. 

Fillets of, 147. 

Forcemeat, 125, 198. 

Fricasse, 88. 

Fried, 152. 

Mousse, 248. 

Pie, 104. 

Roast, 8. 

Soup, 74. 
Chicory Salad, 194. 
Chiffonade Salad, 84, 125. 
Chocolate Bavarian Cream, 
138. 

Cold, Bread Pudding, 56. 

Ice Cream. 33. 

Parfait, 224. 

Pears, 154. 

Petits Fours, 213. 

Pudding, Steamed, 19. 

Sauce, Hot, 72, 169. 

Souffle, 85. 
Chops, Lobster, 254. 
Christmas Plum Pudding, 
119. 

Salad, 119. 
Cider Sauce, 211. 
Circles, Orange, 244. 
Clam Bouillon, 83, 152. 

And Corn Soup, 130. 

Soup, 110. 

And Tomato Consomme, 
122. 
Clams, Little Neck, 178. 
Club Steak, Planked, 55. 
Cocktail, Fruit, 18^. 

Oyster, 253. 
Cod, Boiled, 136. 

Fillets of, 70. 
Coffee Ice Cream, 127, 244. 

Sponge, 37. 
Cold Chocolate Bread Pud- 
ding, 56. 

Halibut, 156. 
Cole Slaw in Cabbage Shell, 
79. 



Cole Slaw Dressing, 79. 

Southern, 198. 

A la Touraine, 22. 
Colorado Salad, 188. 
Cones, Cream, 206. 
Consomme, 239. 

Chicken, 247. 

Clam and Tomato, 122. 

With Macaroni, 227. 

Au Parmesan, 240. 
Corn, Boiled Green, 153. 

And Chicken Soup, 43. 

And Clam Soup, 130. 

Fritters, 223. 

Mock Bisque Soup, 8. 
Court Bouillon, 87. ^ 

Crabs, Devilled, 247. 

Soft Shell, 55. 
Crackers, Browned, 51. 
Cranberry Moulds, 103. 

Punch, 112. 
Cream of Celery Soup, 51. 

Chocolate Bavarian, 138 

Coffee Ice, 127. 

Cones, 206. 

Jelly, 41. 

Mayonnaise Dressing, 201. 

Of Pea Soup, 167. 

Peach, 219. 

Sauce, 223. 

Sherbet, Orange, 213. 

Sponge Balls, 259. 

Of Tomato Soup, 59. 

Vanilla lee, 113. 

Whipped, 81. 
Creamed Calf's Brains, 255. 

Carrots, 23. 

Cauliflower, 118, 137. 

Cheese Brown Bread Sand- 
wiches, 224. 

Mushrooms, 66. 

Peas, 165. 

Sweetbreads, 160. 

Turnips, 19. 
Creamy Sauce, 61, 85. 
Croquettes, Cheese, 194. 

Chicken, 217. 

Mushroom, 233. 

Potato, 99. 

Potato and Cheese, 63. 

Sweet Potato, 148. 



Index. 



Croquettes, White Potato, 

249. 
CroOtons, 4. 

Buttered, 135. 

Sauted, 211. 
Crown of Lamb, 241. 
Crusts, Imperial, 74. 
Cucumber Baskets, 179. 

Baskets, Totamo and, 212. 

Boats, 254. 

Jelly, 216. 

Eibbons, 147. 
Cucumbers, Dressed, 47. 

Fried, 92. 
Currant Jelly Sauce, 228. 

Mint Sorbet, 250. 

Wafers. 145. 
Curried Potatoes, 168. 

Vegetables, 228. 
Curry Sauce. 229. 
Custard. Chicken, 178. 

Danish, 133. 

Egg, 131. 

Pudding, 90. 

Royal, 197, 232. 

Sauce, 11. 

Souffle, 161. 
Cutlets, Fish, 227. 

Danish Custard, 133. 
Devilled Chicken Fricasse, 88. 

Crabs, 247. 
Dinner Braids, 253. 

Rolls, 116. 
Drawn Butter Sauce, 96. 
Dressed Cucumbers, 47. 

Lettuce, 14. 
Dressing, Boiled Salad, 36. 

California Boiled, 56. 

Cole Slaw, 79. 

Cream Mayonnaise, 201. 

French, 6, 182, 188, 212. 

Hot Potato Salad, 137. 

Mayonnaise, 76. 

Sherry, 152. 

Wine, 185. 
Dried Lima Beans, 5. 
Drops, Sponge, 195. 
Duchess Potatoes, 55, 187. 
Duck Gravy, 193. 

Roast, 192. 



Ducks, Broiled, 229. 

WUd, Roasted, 182. 
Dumplings, Apple, 97. 
Dutch Potatoes, 206. 

Sauce, 227, 233. 

Egg Balls, 191. 

Custard, 131. 

Nog, Frozen, 141. 

And Pimento Timbales, 130. 

Plant au Gratin, 144. 

Plant, Sauted, 10. 

Sauce, 59. 
Eggs, Cheese, 149. 
Emergency Soup. 164. 
English Plum Pudding, 126. 
Escalloped Cabbage, 63. 
Espanol Sauce, 186, 234. 

Farina Cups, 52. 
Fillet of Beef a la Jardiniere, 
180. 

With Truffles, Larded, 255. 
Fillets of Beef, Sauted, 199. 

Breaded Lamb, 92. 

Chicken h la Poulette, 147. 

Cod, 70. 

Lamb, Saut6d, 13. 

Sole, 123. 
Filling, 150. 

Chicken and Mushroom, 
241. 

Lemon, 100. 

Orange, 44. 
Fingers, Cheese, 258. 
Finnan Haddie, Canapfia of, 

232. 
Fish: 

Anchovy Canapgs, 135. 

Blue, Baked, 59. 

Baked, & la Lee, 47. 

Cod, Boiled, 136. 

Fillets of, 70. 

Finnan Haddie, Canapgs 
of, 232. 

Haddock, Boiled, 87. 
Baked, Stuffed, 131. 

Halibut, Cold, 156. 

Rolls, 110. 

Slices, Baked, 222. 

Timbales, 117. 



Index. 



Fish : 

Salmon Loaf, 160. 

Smoked, Canapes, 135 

Timbales, 164. 

Sardines, Fried, 240. 

Shad a la Delmonioo, 147. 

Smelts, Stuffed, 172. 

Sole, Fillets of, 123. 

Trout, Broiled, 142. 
Fish, Broiled, 79. 

Cutlets, 227. 

Forcemeat, 172. 

Shrimp Sauce, 117. 

Stuffing, 132. 
Flageolets, 257. 
Foamy Sauce, 162, 237. 

Brandy, 120. 
Forcemeat, Chicken, 125, 198. 
Fowl, Boiled, 30. 

Braised, 51. 
French Beans, 228. 

Beans, String, 67. 

Dressing, 6, 15, 182, 188, 
212. 

Dressing for Cuoumberii, 47. 

Fried Potatoes, 88. 

Hollandaise Sauce, 164. 

Peas, 181. 

Rolls, 18. 
Prieasse, Devilled Chiiken, 

88. 
Fritters, Corn, 223. 
Frosting, 150. 

White, 213. 
Frozen Apples, 124. 

Egg Nog, 141. 

Horseradish Sauce, 161. 

Neapolitan Charlotte, 229. 
Fruit Cocktail, 185. 

And Nut Salad, 200. 

Grape, 247. 

Pudding, 107. 

Salad, 206. 

Sauce, 49. 

Souffle, 236. 

Tapioca, 64. 

Galettes, 176. 
(Jeorgiana Pudding, 49. 
Gfrman Fried Potatoes, 165. 

Patties, 240, 



German Sandwiches, 165. 
Giblet Gravy, 9, 111, 124. 
Glazed Carrots, 181. 

Chestnuts, 205. 

Silver Skins, 124. 

Sweetbreads, 227. 
Goose, Roast, 117, 123. 
Grape Fruit, 247. 

Salad. 243. 
Gravy, 66. 

Brown, 4, 103, 218. , 

Duck, 193. 

Giblet, 9, 111, 124. 

Truffle, 204. 
Green Peas, 242. 

Peas, Boiled, 143. 

Peppers, Stuffed, 10. 

String IBeans, 71. 
Grouse, Roast, 250. 

Haddie, Finnan, 232. 
Haddock, Baked Stuffed, 131. 

Boiled, 87. 
Halibut, Cold, 156. 

A la Meniere, 185. 

Rolls, 110. 

Slices, Baked, 222. 

Timbales, 117. 
Ham, Roast, 210. 
Hard Sauce, 113. 
Health Food Bread Sand- 
wiches, 32. 

With Dates, 32. 
Hearts, Stuffed, 80. 
Henriette, Sauce, 39. 
Hollandaise Sauce, 89. 

French, 164. 

Horseradish, 173. 
Hominy, Fried, 193. 
Honeycomb Pudding, 60. 
Horseradish Sauce, 32. 

Frozen, 161. 

Hollandaise, 173. 
Hot Chocolate Sauce, 72, 169 

Potato Salad, 137. 

Tartare Sauce, 87. 
Huntington Soup, 39. 

Ice Cases, Individual, 239. 
Lemon, 149. 
Tutti Fruitti, 201. 



Index. 



Ice Cream, Caramel Nut, 188. 

Coffee, 127, 244. 

Macaroon, 194. 

Orange, 144. 

Pistachio Bisque, 258. 

Strawberry, 183. 

Vanilla, 113. 
Imperial Crusts, 74. 
Individual Pastry Cases, 136. 

Ice Cases, 239. 
Italian Meringue, 224. 

Soup, 209. 

Jeixy, Apricot and Wine, 258. 

Cream, 41. 

Cucumber, 216. 

Sauce, Currant, 228. 

Sauterne, 248. 
Julienne Soup, 30. 

Lady Fingers, 225. 
Lamb, Crown of, 241. 

Fillets, Breaded, 92. 

Or Mutton, Saddle of, 228. 

Roast Spring, 143. 

Sauted Fillets of, 13. 
Lambs' Sweetbreads, Bou- 

chges of, 142. 
Larded Fillet of Beef, 255. 
Lemon Cream Sherbet, 53. 

Filling, 100. 

Ice, 149. 

Meringue Pie, 100. 
Lenox Sauce, 218. 
Lettuce and Cucumber Salad, 
99. 

Dressed, 14. 

Salad, Tomato and, 223. 

Sherry's Dressed, 236. 
Lima Beans, Dried, 5. 
Little Neck Clams, 178. 
Liver, Braised, 71. 
Lobster Bisque, 185. 

Canapfis, 171. 

In Cases, 191. 

Chops, 254. 

Juanita, 233. 

Macaroni, Baked, 96. 
Macaroon Ice Cream, 194. 
Macedoine Salad, 5. 



Maitre d'Hotel Butter, 19. 

Potatoes, 111. 
Marshmallow Pudding, 72. 

Wafers, 230. 
Mashed Potatoes, 44. 

Sweet Potatoes, 40. 

Turnips, 35. 

Winter Squash, 111. 
Mayonnaise Dressing, 76. 

Dressing, Cream, 201. 

Tomato, 153. 
Measures and Weights, Table 

of, 1. 
Meringue, 28, 45, 57, 90, 100. 

Italian, 224. 

Lemon Pie, 100. 
Mince Meat, 106. 

Pie, 106. 
Mint Sauce, 143. 

Sorbet, Cherry, 174. 

Sorbet, Currant, 250. 
Mock Bisque Soup, 8. 

Turtle Soup, 197. 
Moulded Cheese, 182. 

Sweetbreads, 198. 
Mousse Canton, 206. 

Chicken, 248. 
Mousseline Sauce, 257. 
Mushroom Croquettes, 233. 

And Sago Soup, 253. 

Sauce, 123. 

Sauce, Brown, 125, 256. 
Mushrooms en Casserole, 250. 

Creamed, 66. 

Under Glass, 203. 
Mutton, Boiled Leg of, 83. 

Braised Leg of, 35. 

Chops, Pan Broiled, 22. 

Roast Leg of, 2ia. 

Roast Stuffed Shoulder of, 
66. 

Saddle of, 228, 249. 

Neapolitan Baskets, 168. 

Charlotte, Frozen, 229. 
Nut Bread Sandwiches, 174. 

Ice Cream Caramel, 188. 
Nuts, Salted Pistachio, 237 

Oak Hill Sweet Potatoes, 
103. 



Index. 



Oatmeal Snaps, 158. 
Olives, Veal, 157. 
Onion Souffle, 27. 

Soup, 17. 
Onions, Boiled, 104. 

In Cream, 112. 
Orange Circles, ?44. 

Cream Sherbet, 213. 

Filling, 44. 

Ice Cream, 144. 

Salad, 229. 

Sauce, 182. 

Tartlets, 44. 
Oyster Cocktails, 253. 

Corks, 179. 

Soup, 92. 

Stew, 102. 
Ox Joints, Baked, 99. 
Oysters, Broiled, 43. 

Fried, 198. 

Raw, 239. 

Pan Broiled Mutton Chops, 

22. 
Parched Rice, 75. 
Parisian Potatoes, 23, 199. 
Parisienne Soup, 171. 
Parsnips, 96. 

Fried, 27. 
Paste, Plain, 105. 

Puff, 105. 
Pastry Cases, 136. 

Nut Sticks, 183. 
Pate de Foie Gras in Aspic, 

187. 
Patties, 209. 

Fillings, 210. 

German, 240. 

Squash, 107. 
Pea Soup, Cream of, 167. 
Peas, Creamed, 165. 

A la Frangaise, 200. 

French, 181. 

Green, 242. 
Peach Brandy Sauce, 97. 

Cabinet Pudding, 93. 

Cream, 219. 
Pear Salad, 112. 
Pears, Brandied, 183. 

Chocolate, 154. 
Pecans, Salted, 127. 



Pepper and Fruit Salad, 174. 
Peppers, Stuffed Green, 10. 
Petits Choux aux Fruits, 149. 

Fours, Chocolate, 213. 
Pie, Chicken, 104. 

Lemon Meringue, 100. 

Mince, 106. 
Pigeons, Roasted, 242. 
Pimento Timbales, 124. 

Egg and, 130. 
Pistachio Bisque lee Cream, 

258. 
Plain Paste, 105. 
Planked Club Steak, 55. 
PlombiSre, Almond, 237. 
Plum Pudding, Christmas, 119 

English, 126. 
Porterhouse Beef Steak, 

Broiled, 18. 
Potage d'Avignon, 141. 
Potato Balls, 181. 

Balls Fried, 242. 

Balls Sauted, 35. 

Croquettes, 99. 

Croquettes, White, 249. 

And Cheese Croquettes, 63. 

Rings, 256. 

Salad, Hot, 137. 

Souffle, 60. 

Strips, 19. 

Sweet, Croquettes, 148. 
Potatoes, Austrian, 48. 

Boiled, 26. 

Boiled New, 143. 

Browned Sweet, 13. 

Chateau, 235. 

Curried, 168. 

Duchess, 55, 187. 

Dutch, 205. 

French Fried, 88. 

German Fried, 165. 

A la Goldenrod, 80. 

Maitre d'Hotel, 111. 

Mashed, 44. 

Mashed Sweet, 40. 

Oak Hill Sweet, 103. 

Parisian, 23, 199. 

Riced, 67. 

Riced a la Colburg, 31. 

Roast, 5. 

Steamed New, 153 



Index. 



Princess Pudding, 23. 
Prune Pudding, 10. 
Pudding, Almond, 81. 

Boston, 15. 

Bread, Cold Chocolate, 56. 

Cabinet, 243. 

Christmas Plum, 119. 

Custard, 90. 

English Plum, 126. 

Fruit, 107. 

Georgiana, 49. 

Honeycomb, 60. 

Marshmallow, 72. 

Peach Cabinet, 93. 

Princess, 23. 

Prune, 10. 

Eice, 175. 

Steamed Chocolate, 19. 

Thanksgiving, 113. 
Puff Paste. 105. 
Pulled Bread, 203. 
Punch, Cranberry, 112. 

Quail, Broiled, 200. 
Epicurean Style, 144. 
Eoaat, 235. 

Raisin Cup Cakes, 219. 

Sauce, 199. 
Raisins, Stuffed, 53. 
Raw Oysters, 239. 
Relish, Baltimore, 60. 
Rib Roast of Beef, 4. 
Rice, Boiled, 9. 

Parched, 75. 

Pudding, 175. 
Riced Potatoes, 67. 

A la Colburg, 31. 
Rings, Bread, 130. 

Browned Soup, 122. 

Potato, 256. 
Roe, Broiled, 179. 

Fried Shad, 216. 
Romaine Salad, 182. 
Rolls, Dinner, 116. 

French, 18. 

Halibut, 110. 
Royal Custard, 197, 232. 

Saddle of Lamb or Mutton, 
228. 



Saddle of Mutton, 249. 
Sago Soup, 253. 
Salad, Apple and Chestnut, 
132. 

Artichoke, 219. 

Asparagus, 56. 

Bean, 168. 

California, 70. 

Celery and Cream Cheese, 
67. 

Cheese, 40. 

Chicory, 194. 

Chiffonade, 84, 125. 

Christmas, 119. 

Colorado, 188. 

Dressing, 137. 

Dressing, Boiled, 36. 

A la Flora, 161. 

Fruit, 206. 

Fruit and Nut, 200. 

Grape Fruit, 243. 

Hot Potato, 137. 

Lettuce and Cucumber, 99. 

Macedoine, 5. 

Orange, 229. 

Pear, 112. 

Pepper and Fruit, 174. 

Romaine, 182. 

Tomato Jelly, 32. 

Tomato and Lettuce, 223. 

Watercress, 251. 
Salmon Loaf, 160. 

Smoked, 135. 

Timbales, 164. 
Salted Almonds, 120. 

Pecans, 127. 

Pistachio Nuts, 237. 
Sandwiches, Brown Bread, 
239. 

Cheese, 15. 

Creamed Cheese Brown 
Bread, 224. 

German, 165. 

Health Food Bread, 32. 

Nut Bread, 174. 
Sardines, Fried, 240. 
Sauce Bgchamel, 70. 

Bernaise, 172. 

Brandy, 108. 

Brandy, Foamy, 120. 

Brandy, Peach, 97. 



Index. 



Sauce, Bread, 131, 250. 
Brown, 212. 

Brown Mushroom, 125, 256. 
Brown Walnut, 180. 
Caper I., 83: 
Caper II., 84. 
Celery, 31. 
Cider, 211. 
Cream, 223. 
Creamy, 61, 85. 
Currant Jelly, 228. 
Curry, 229. 
Custard, 11. 
Drawn Butter, 96. 
Dutch, 227, 233. 
Egg, 59. 

Espanol, 186, 234. 
Foamy, 162, 237. 
French Hollandaise, 164. 
Frozen Horseradish, 161. 
Fruit, 49. 
Hard, 113. 
Henriette, 39. 
Hollandaise, 89. 
Horseradish, 32. 
Horseradish Hollandaise,173 
Hot Chocolate, 72, 169. 
Hot Tartare, 87. 
Lenox, 218. 
Mint, 143. 
Mousseline, 257. 
Orange, 182. 
Piquante, Beets, 40. 
Raisin, 199. 
Sherry, 126. 
Shrimp, 117. 
Soubise, 22. 
Sterling, 20. 
Tartare, 17. 
Tomato, 75, 167. 
Truffle, 199, 211. 
Tyrolienne, 156. 
Veloute, 180. 
Venetian, 136. 
Verte, 147. 
Vienna, 187. 
White, 14, 23, 63, 80, 96, 

137. 
White, Thick, 254. 
White, Thin, 157. 
White Wine, 244. 



Sauce, Wine, 165. 

Yellow Bechamel, 217. 
Sauti?d Bananas, 168. 

Croutons, 211. 

Egg Plant, 10. 

Fillets of Beef, 199. 

Fillets of Lamb, 13. 

Potato Balls, 35. 

Tomatoes, 235., 
Sauterne Jelly, 248. 
Scallops, Fried, 22. 
Shad a la Delmonico, 147. 

Roe, Fried, 216. 
Shelled Beans, 60. 
Sherbet, Lemon Cream, 53. 

Orange Cream, 213. 
Sherry Dressing, 152. 

Sauce, 126. 
Sherry's Dressed Lettuce, 236. 
Shortcake, Strawberry, 76. 
Shoulder of Mutton, Boast 
Stuffed, 66. 

Veal, Braised, 74. 
Shrewsbury Biscuit, 189. 
Shrimp Sauce, 117. 
Silver Skins, Glazed, 124. 
Smelts, Fried, 17. 

Stuffed, 172. 
Smoked Salmon, 135. 
Snaps, Brandy, 53. 

Oatmeal, 158. 
Soft Shell Cribs, 55. 
Sole, Fillets of, 123. 
Sorbet, Currant Mint, 250. 
Soubise, Sauce, 22. 
Souffle, Cheese, 138. 

Chocolate, 85. 

Custard, 161. 

Fruit, 236. 

Onion, 27. 

Potato, 60. 

Willard, 251. 
Soup (see also Bouillon and 
Consommg) : 

Appledore Bean, 95. 

Black Bean, 13. 

Brown, 70. 

Brown Stock, 30. 

Carrot, 26. 

Chicken, 74. 

Clam. 110. 



Index. 



Soup, Clam and Corn, 130. 

Corn and Chicken, 43. 

Corn Mock Bisque, 8. 

Cream of Celery, 51. 

Cream of Pea, 167. 

Cream of Tomato, 59. 

Emergency, 164. 

Huntington, 39. 

Italian, 209. 

Julienne, 30. 

Mock Turtle, 197. 

Mushroom and Sago, 253. 

Onion, 17. 

Oyster, 92. 

Parisienne, 171. 

Rings, Browned, 122. 

Tomato, 4. 

Tomato, Bisque, 135. 

Victoria, 178. 

White, 156. 

White, with Wine, 203. 
Southern Cole Slaw, 198. 
Spiced Apple, 27. 
Spinach Boiled, 43, 148. 

With Sauted Crolltons, 211. 

Swedish Style, 31. 
Sponge Balls, 259. 

Cake, 114. 

Coffee, 37. 

Drops, 195. 
Sprouts, Brussels, 52. 
Squash, Baked, 14. 

Mashed Winter, 111. 

Patties, 107. 
Steak, Planked Club, 55. 
Steamed Chocolate Pudding, 
19. 

New Potatoes, 153. 
Sterling Sauce, 20. 
Stew, Oyster, 102. 
Stewed Celery, 14. 
Sticks, Bread, 141. 
Strawberry lee Cream, 183. 

Shortcake, 76. 
String Beans, French, 67. 

Green, 71. 
Strips, Potato, 19. 
Stuffed Apples, 118, 193. 

Artichokes, 235. 

Green Peppers, 10. 

Hearts, 80. 



Stuffed Raisins, 53. 

Smelts, 172. 

Tomatoes, 48. 

Tomato Salad, 36. 
Stuffing, 9, 67, 80, 102, 111. 
124, 204, 243. 

Chestnut, 52, 118. 

Fish, 132. 

For Mushroom Caps, 186. 
Succotash, 75. 
Swedish Meat Balls, 167. 

Timbales, 255. 
Sweet Potatoes, Browned, 13. 

Croquettes, 148. 

Mashed, 40. 

Oak Hill, 103. 
Sweetbreads, Bouchfies of 
Lambs', 142. 

Browned, 211. 

Creamed, 160. 

Glazed, 227. 

A la Huntington, 192. 

Moulded, 198. 

To Parboil, 192. 

Table of Measures and 

Weights, 1. 
Tapioca, Fruit, 64. 
Tartare, Sauce, 17. 

Hot, 87. 
Tartlets, of Eggs, 136. 

Orange, 44. 
Thanksgiving Pudding, 113. 
Thick White Sauce, 254. 
Thin White Sauce, 157. 
Timbales, Egg and Pimento, 
130. 

Halibut, 117. 

Pimento, 124. 

Salmon, 164. 

Swedish, 255. 
Tomato Bisque Soup, 135. 

And Clam ConsommS, 122. 

And Cucumber Baskets, 
212. 

Jelly Salad, 32. 

And Lettuce Salad, 223. 

Mayonnaise, 153. 

Salad, Stuffed, 36. 

Sauce, 75, 167. 

Soup, 4. 



Index. 



Tomato Soup, Cream of, 59. 
Tomatoes, Broiled, 173. 

Fried, au Parmesan, 55. 

Sauted, 235. 

Stuffed, 48. 
Tongues, Boiled Calves', 44. 
Tournedos of Beef, 186. 
Trout, Broiled, 142. 
Truffle Gravy, 204. 

Sauce, 199, 211. 
Turkey, Roast, 102, 110, 204. 
Turnips, Carrots and, 249. 

Creamed, 19. 

Mashed, 35. 

In White Sauce, 103. 
Turtle Soup, Mock, 197. 
Tutti Fruitti Ice, 201. 

Vanilla lee Cream, 113. 

In Cantaloupes, 158. 
Veal, Braised Shoulder of, 
74. 

Olives, 157. 

Roast Leg of, 47. 
Vegetables, Curried, 228. 
Veloute Sauce, 180. 
Venetian Sauce, 136. 
Venison, Roast Saddle of, 

172. 
Verte Sauce, 147. 



Victoria Soup, 178. 
Vienna Sauce, 187. 
Vol-au-vent, Cauliflower, 36. 

Wapebs, Cheese Bread, 158. 

Currant, 145. 

Marshmallow, 230. 
Walnut Sauce, Brown, 180. 
Watercress Salad, 251. 
Watermelon, 152. 
Weights, Table of Measures 

and, 1. 
Whipped Cream, 81. 
White Potato Croquettes, 

249. 
White Sauce, 14, 23, 63, 80, 
96, 104, 137, 157. 

Thick, 254. 

Thin, 157. 

Wine, 244. 
White Soup, 156. 

Frosting, 213. 

With Wine, 203. 
Willard Souffle, 251. 
Wine Dressing, 185. 

Sauce, 165. 

White, Sauce, 244. 
Winter Squash, Mashed, 111. 

Yellow Bechamel Sauce, 21?. 



