***•/• 




TX 813 

.P5H6 
1914 



I Author 



Title 



Imprint. 



16 — 47372-2 OPI 



HAWAII is a land of perpetual wonder, where some strange and 
beautiful scene, unknown before, confronts you at every turn. 
Among the most beautiful sights of the Islands are the immense 
pineapple fields which are full of fascinating subtleties of tint and form. 
The long rows of pineapple plants are grayish green in color, the leaves 
sweeping away from the center of the plant in graceful arcs. These 
arching lines stretch as far as the eye can reach, making a wonderful 
perspective of tropic beauty. 

The first sign of the pineapple is the appearance of a tiny crown 
which develops slowly into a miniature of the matured pineapple. Blue 
blossoms come out, a tiny flower at each eye, but these disappear while 
the fruit is still small. Pineapple fields are most beautiful when the 
crop is ready for harvesting, and heavy golden fruits top every plant. 
The perfume of a fully ripened pineapple cut in the field is of exquisite 
quality, unapproached by any other fruit odor. 

To preserve this fragrance intact it must be imprisoned at once, so the great 
canneries of Hawaiian Pineapple are located as nearly as possible to the plantations. 
In this way ripe pineapple, the most delicious and one of the most wholesome of all 
fruits, can be brought to our tables in its fullest perfection at any season of the year. 

©CI.A376582 

JUL 17 1914 ( . 



(SECOND edition; 



Copyright 1914 by 

Hawaiian Pineapple Packers' Association 

Honolulu, Hawaii 






How We Serve 
Hawaiian Canned Pineapple 



Fannie Merritt Farmer 
Christine Terhune Herrick 
Alice Getchel! Kirk 
Marion Harris Neil 
Sarah Pearson Stuart 



BY 

Josephine Grenier 
Janet McKenzie Hill 
Anna W. Morrison 
Lilian Dynevor Rice 
Emma Paddock Telford 



Marion Harland 

Helen Louise Johnson 

Marion Harris Neil 

Sarah Tyson Rorer 

Virginia Terhune Van de Water 



Each of these authorities on cooking who has been 
good enough to contribute to the pages of this book has 
used Hawaiian Canned Pineapple and found it worthy of 
her recommendation. In securing the co-operation of these 
experts, the publishers consider that they have done their 
readers and themselves a great service and take this oppor- 
tunity of thanking the contributors individually and collec- 
tively. 

The recipes by Marion Harland, Mrs. Herrick, Miss 
Johnson, Mrs. Kirk, Miss Parloa, Mrs. Rorer and Mrs. Van 
de Water were originated especially for this book. Those 
furnished by Miss Farmer, Miss Grenier, Mrs. Hill, Miss 
Morrison, Miss Neil, Miss Rice, Mrs. Stuart and Mrs. Telford 



are printed from well-known magazines with which these 
writers are or were connected and credit is given to both 
authors and magazines. When the author's name is not 
known, credit is given to the magazine. 

Hawaiian Canned Pineapple is very different from 
other pineapple, in its beautiful golden color, in texture, in 
flavor, in ripeness, in digestive and tonic properties. 

It is so much finer in every way because Hawaiian 
Pineapples are of the Smooth Cayenne variety ("the garden 
pine"), grown extra big, yellow, tender and luscious, in a 
sub-tropical climate, in a soil which exactly suits them; and 
especially because they are picked and properly canned on 
the very day they reach perfection. 

Pineapples fully ripened on the plant contain over ten 
per cent, of pure sugar. Most of this is absorbed by the 
fruit during the final days of ripening and gives a flavor 
and tone to the fruit that green-cut pineapples ripened in the 
vessel hold, the refrigerator car and the storehouse can 
never get. 

Canned Hawaiian Pineapple is picked at its best and 
packed immediately in a pure cane sugar syrup; retains all 
of its native deliciousness and cannot be injured on its way 
to your table because it is shipped in hermetically sealed 



sanitary tins, while fresh pineapples bruise easily and seldom 
reach the housewife without the deterioration which comes 
from much handling. 

Six minutes from the time a pineapple is delivered to 
the packing kitchen table it is pared, cored, sliced, and the 
hermetically sealed can is thoroughly sterilized. No human 
hand touches the fruit. Absolutely nothing is added except 
pure granulated sugar. Every process is accomplished by 
safe, modern, sanitary methods. 

Regardless of its quality and the distance it has to come, 
Hawaiian Canned Pineapple is not expensive. It is so good 
and healthful and can be easily utilized in so many ways that 
it adds greatly to the comfort and joy of living. 

Briefly, the advantages of Hawaiian Canned Pineapple 
over other canned pineapple and the finest fresh pineapples 
are these: It is a better variety than any which can be 
shipped satisfactorily; it has been ripened to full perfection 
on the plant; having no woody fiber (wood grows but 
poorly on the Islands) it cuts with a fork or spoon like a 
peach; it is more economical because there is no loss from 
bruising and no trouble or waste with skins and cores; it 
comes sliced, crushed or grated, in two or more qualities. The 
finest ( usually labeled Extra ) consists of selected perfect slices 
packed in very heavy cane sugar syrup. This quality costs no 
more than domestic fruits. 




The pineapple is very much 
larger than the No. 2^ can 



Other grades (usually labeled Standard) 
are packed from the same delicious, field- 
ripened pineapple, but the slices are not 
always evenly trimmed and the syrup is not 
so sweet, permitting a lower price. 

These photographic reproductions ( see 
left hand marginal cut) of four typical Ha- 
waiian Pineapples, with a No. 2 J/2 can in 
front of each, show why there are two diameters of cans. The 
fruit is not the same diameter at all points and when the large 
ripe pineapple has been pared and cored by machinery, the 
peeled fruit is cut ( also by machinery) into a cylinder in one of 
two sizes (see right hand marginal cut). This 
makes the Sliced Pineapple. 

Large outside pieces of the best part of the fruit 
are left. These are put up as Crushed and Grated Pineapple 
in two ways : The cheapest in clear, unsweetened pine- 
apple juice, the higher priced in pure cane sugar syrup. 

Just a word about the Crushed and Grated. The 
Crushed is slightly coarser than the Grated, but they are 
practically interchangeable, so that whenever a recipe 
calls for one, the other may be used if your grocer has 
but one of these forms. 

Let us illustrate and emphasize the advantage 
of opening a can around the sides directly under the cover. The old way 
of sticking the opener in the top too often resulted in injured hands and 

ir> mi j r> tA\ [mutilated contents. 

(Lonhnued on rage 24) l 



No. 10 No. 2% 



No. 2 No. 2 
S.juat Tall 




Cim Sizes Slice Diameter 

No. 10-1 gal. 3>s inches 

No. 2 l /z 3^ inches 

No. 2 Squat ~b 3 /& inches 

No. 2 Tall 3yi inches 

Crushed and Grated are packed 
in sizes Nos. 10, 2/2 and 2 Tall 



Pineapple and Rice Compote 



Recipes by Fannie Merritt Farmer 

in Woman's Home Companion 

LEMON JELLY is far from the ordinary if a trick or two is 
played with it. To 2|/ 2 cupfuls of boiling water add 1 cupful of 
sugar and 4 cloves; again bring to the boiling point and boil 2 
minutes. Remove from the range. Add 2 tablespoonfuls of 
granulated gelatine soaked in J/ 2 cupful of cold water, and J/ 2 
cupful of lemon juice. Cover, and let stand until nearly cool. 
Strain half the mixture into a brick mold first dipped in cold 
water. To the remaining half add the white of 1 egg beaten until stiff, y 2 cupful of can- 
ned sliced pineapple cut in pieces and !4 of a cupful of raisins seeded and cut up. Fill 
the mold with the second mixture, and chill thoroughly. Remove from the mold and 
garnish with sections of candied cherries and slices of pineapple, cut in fancy shapes, as 
illustrated. — Fannie Merritt Farmer. 

PINEAPPLE SOUFFLE— Beat the yolks of 3 eggs slightly, add the grated rind and 
juice of one lemon, J/ 2 cupful of sugar and a few grains of salt. Cook, stirring constantly, 
until the mixture thickens; then remove from the range, and add 2/3 of a cupful of 
shredded pineapple, and 1l/ 2 tablespoonfuls of granulated gelatine which has been soaked 
in 2 tablespoonfuls of cold water. When the mixture begins to thicken, beat J/ 2 cupful of 
heavy cream and the whites of 3 eggs beaten until stiff. Turn into a mold first dipped 
In cold water, and chill. Remove from the mold, and serve with or without thin cream. 
— Fannie Merritt Farmer. 

PINEAPPLE COMPOTE-Wash 1 cupful of rice, cover with cold water, and let stand 
several hours. Put 1J/ 2 cupfuls of boiling water in the top of a double boiler, and add 1 
teaspoonful of salt. Add gradually the drained rice, stirring with a silver fork, to prevent 
adhering to the boiler. Boil 5 minutes, cover, place over the under part of the double 
boiler, and steam until the rice has absorbed the water; then add from 1(/ 4 to 1%. cupfuls 
milk, and steam until the kernels are soft. The whole cooking process will take about 
forty-five minutes, but must depend on the age of the rice; again, the amount of liquid 
required depends upon the same thing. To the steamed rice add 2|/ 2 tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, V 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, a few grains of nutmeg, 2 egg-yolks slightly beaten 
and a little of the juice from the slices of canned pineapple. Mound rice on a compote, 
and arrange pineapple as shown in illustration. — Fannie Merritt Farmer. 




Lemon Jelly with Pineapple 



The most luscious sherbet was made 
from the new canned Hawaiian pine- 
apple, as juicy and lively as the fresh 
fruit. The shredded (grated) variety 
was used. — Good Housekeeping. Experiment 
Station. 

Crushed or grated Hawaiian pine- 
apple, right from the can, makes a 
fine sauce with meats. 

[5] 



Recipes by Josephine Grenier 

in Harper's Bazar 
Hawaiian Canned Pineapple is delicious, even better than home made, and goes 
farther in cooking. — Josephine Grenier. 

PINEAPPLE AND ICE CREAM— Take large fine slices of canned Hawaiian pineapple 
and arrange on a flat glass dish; on each one put a spoonful of ice cream or stiffly 
whipped cream sweetened and flavored, and top with a cherry. Serve well chilled. 
1 llustrated. — Josephine Grenier. 

PINEAPPLE EGGNOG (for an invalid)— Beat slightly 1 very fresh egg; add 2 table- 
spoonfuls of water and 2 of Hawaiian pineapple juice; strain over crushed ice, and 
sweeten to taste.— Josephine Grenier. 

PINE CONES — With a fluted cookie-cutter cut some slices of stale cake into rounds; lay 
these on a flat dish, and on each one put a small pyramid of grated Hawaiian pine- 
apple drained of juice, and press into shape with a knife. Put the juice from the can 
into a saucepan on the fire, and to 1 cupful add a teaspoonful of arrowroot (or cornstarch 
or confectioners' sugar) moistened with a little cold water; cook till it clears and thickens, 
and sweeten to taste; pour slowly from a spoon over the cones, coating them with a jelly; 
let them stand till cold and firm and then lift to another dish and serve. Pass with 
them cream, or custard, or fruit juice. — Josephine Grenier. 

PINEAPPLE SANDWICHES— Cut from a stale loaf of cake some oblong slices, or buy 
small sponge-cakes and split them open; spread each piece with grated Hawaiian pineapple 
and press together; cover with powdered sugar and stick them full of blanched almonds; 
pass with these a very cold soft-boiled custard. Illustrated on page 5. — Josephine Grenier. 

PINEAPPLE SHERBET— Boil 2 cups of water with 1 of sugar; dissolve a tablespoonful 
of gelatine in cold water and stir in the hot syrup; beat till cold; then add 4 well-beaten 
egg whites and the contents of a can of grated Hawaiian pineapple, with the juice of a 
lemon; freeze and serve in glasses. — Josephine Grenier. 

PINEAPPLE PARFAIT— Beat stiff the yolks of 6 eggs and put into the double boiler; 
add slowly to this a cup of sugar boiled in a cup of water for 5 minutes. When the whole 
thickens so it will coat the spoon, beat till cold; add a pint of cream beaten very stiff, 2 

cups of grated Hawaiian pineapple and the 
m _ _ l * juice of a small lemon; pack in a mold; bury in 

^ ice and salt 5 hours. — Josephine Grenier. 

*' V 'iSt, PINEAPPLE CUP— Put into a bowl the juice 




of 3 lemons, 2 oranges, a can of grated 

MtfF Hawaiian pineapple, and a cup of sugar. Let 

this stand an hour, then put through a fruit- 

Ht ^^ press; add as much water — plain or effervesc- 

,- ing — as you desire, and put into a large bowl 

„L— -"""" with a block of ice; on top put sliced pineapple 

cut into small pieces. — Josephine Grenier. 

Ice Cream on Sliced Pineapple [ 6 1 



Recipes by Marion Harland 



Hawaiian (canned) pineapple promises to drive out of the market the tough-fibered, 
comparatively sour fruit we have up to now known as pineapple. Let us rejoice and 
be exceedingly glad that the "most delicious of fruits" is decreasing in cost and increas- 
ing in goodness, while meat and cereals are on the steady (and sinful) rise. — Marion 
Harland. 

PINEAPPLE AND CHESTNUT CHARLOTTE-Line a chilled glass dish with lady- 
fingers or slices of stale sponge cake. Lay thickly upon this small cubes of canned 
Hawaiian pineapple. Have at hand a generous cupful of boiled and cold Spanish chest- 
nuts which you have rubbed through a sieve, or put through the vegetable press. Cover 
the pineapple with this, and upon the chestnut stratum scatter more pineapple. The 
upper layer should be chestnuts. Sugar lightly; add to the liquor from the can a glass of 
sherry, and pour around the edges of the mass that it may soak into the cake. The 
deliciousness and the appearance of this dessert are improved by heaping whipped 
cream, or sweetened meringue over all. Serve ice-cold. — Marion Harland. 

JELLIED PINEAPPLE — Drain the liquor from a can of Hawaiian pineapple, and heat to 
a boil — strain through a jelly bag and stir into it half a box of gelatine which was soaked 
for 3 hours in water enough to cover it. Return to the fire and when it is heated through 
and the gelatine dissolved, cool until barely lukewarm. Put a layer of pineapple in a glass 
bowl; pour in enough of the jelly to cover it well and set on the ice to stiffen. Keep the 
jelly liquid by setting in a bowl of lukewarm water. When the first layer will bear the 
weight of more fruit, put on the second, cover with jelly and proceed as before until the 
ingredients are used up. Serve in the bowl. Several hours on the ice will be required 
to make it firm. — Marion Harland. 

STRAWBERRIES AND PINEAPPLE mixed make a delightful change for a few 
meals, particularly as a sauce for a plain steamed pudding. To a can of crushed Ha- 
waiian pineapple add twice as much strawberries. Fill jars with this mixture. Cover 
to overflowing with a syrup made of twice as much sugar as water, put on covers, put in 
boiler with water coming 2/3 up the jars, and let cook J/ 2 hour. Remove jars, screw on 
tops and cool slowly. — Good Housekeeping. 



PINEAPPLE PIE— Beat y 2 cupful butter, 1 
cupful sugar and yolks of 3 eggs to a cream. 
Add 1 can grated or crushed Hawaiian pine- 
apple. Dissolve 1 tablespoonful cornstarch in 
a cup of sweet cream and add to the pineapple. 
Mix thoroughly. Beat the whites of the eggs 
until stiff and fold in lightly. Have ready a 
pie tin lined with crust. Fill with the pine- 
apple mixture and bake in a moderate oven. 
Serve cold. — Pictorial Review. 

[7] 




Flawauan Ptrreapple Sandwichrs 




'/ 



Individual 

Recipes by Marion Harland ^ W flubut 

PINEAPPLE SYLLABUB— Drain the liquor from a can of grated ^S W^See va«e 16 

Hawaiian pineapple, and let the pulp drain for 10 minutes or more. 

Whip a cupful of fresh, rich cream stiff and mix with the minced 

fruit, lightly tossing up with a silver fork into a conical heap. 

Fruit and cream should be ice-cold and the bowl in which they are 

heaped chilled. Do not touch with the hands and work swiftly. 

Have ready a handful of peach, or other pointed leaves, and set 

about the base of the cone. Stick smaller leaves in the top, and 

serve. The cream will be firmer and hold the shape better if you beat into it y$ as much 

stiff meringue. Serve with sponge cake. — Marion Harland. 

PINEAPPLE PATTIES — After draining juice from a can of grated Hawaiian pineapple, 
add sugar to taste and a spoonful of butter. Set over the fire in a porcelain vessel 
and simmer from 8 to 10 minutes. This filling is rich amber in color, and delectable in 
odor and taste. Have ready a number of pastry shells lightly browned. Arrange them 
in a broad baking-pan and fill to overflowing with the conserve. Put into the oven and 
bake until a film forms upon the pineapple. Ten minutes should suffice. Eat cold. — 
Marion Harland. 

PINEAPPLE SHORTCAKE— Cut Hawaiian canned pineapple in small cubes and stew 
with a cup of sugar. When cool put on the ice so it will become very cold. Strain off 
the juice to use in a pudding sauce, and add whipped cream to the fruit. Pile between and 
on top of the cakes and decorate with a red cherry or berry. — Good Housekeeping. 

FOAMY PUDDING SAUCE— Beat J4 of a cup of butter to a cream; add gradually '/ 2 cup- 
ful sugar and beat until smooth and light. Add the whites of 2 eggs, unbeaten, one at a 
time, beating after each is added until the mixture is very light. When ready to serve 
put the mixture over hot water; add V 2 cup of boiling water and 1 cup of grated Hawaiian 
pineapple, with or without one tablespoonful of sherry. Stir until the sauce foams 
throughout, then serve hot at once. — Helen Louise Johnson. 

RICHELIEU SAUCE — Boil a cupful of sugar with a cupful of water for 5 minutes. Add 
a teaspoonful cornstarch moistened with a little water. Cook until clear, remove from 
fire. Add |/ 2 cupful grated Hawaiian pineapple and a tablespoonful of maraschino. Mix 
well and when ready to serve stir in 2 tablespoonfuls of chopped maraschino cherries. — 
Helen Louise Johnson. 

MARSHMALLOW AND PINEAPPLE DAINTY— whip 1 cupful of thick cream, then 
add V z pound of marshmallows cut in quarters, and 1 can of pineapple cut in small 
pieces. Mix and serve in dainty glasses. — The People' s Home Journal. (Tested by Marion 
Harris Neil.) 

PINEAPPLE AND SAGO PUDDING— Put 1 cup fine sago Into a saucepan, add 3 
cups water; boil and stir until clear, then add the strained juice of 1 lemon, V 2 cupful of 
sugar, and 1 cup sweetened grated pineapple. Turn out, cool and serve with whipped 
cream.— The People's Home Journal. (Tested by Marlon Harris Nell.) 

[8] 



Recipes by Christine Terhune Herrick 

FRUIT DESSERTS in warm weather, and even quite late into the auturr.n, are a simple 
matter to plan two or three times a week. How late into the season do you preserve 
this habit? As soon as fruits become a little scarce do you drop back into the routine 
of puddings and pies and the like, and make up your mind that fruits are out of the 
question until springtime? Don't do this. 

Canned fruits there are aplenty on the market, but few of them hold their natural 
flavor. Hawaiian canned pineapple does, however, and should be better known. Pine- 
apple comes from two sections of our country — from Florida and from Hawaii. The 
Hawaiian pineapple is canned where it is grown, and so can be picked perfectly ripe and 
holds the flavor of the mature fruit. If you have never eaten it, try it either as it comes 
from the can with the taste of the freshly picked pineapple, or else combine it with 
other fruit, as in a fruit salad, or what is known as MARYLAND AMBROSIA. In this 
are mingled lobes of oranges, slices of banana, dice of pineapple, a few Malaga grapes, 
and a handful of nuts. The juice from the different fruits may be increased by the addi- 
tion of sugar a short time before the dish is served, or by a little wine, if you use 
this. Have the ingredients ice-cold, and just before sending them to the table heap 
whipped cream on the top. 

The pineapple Is no less valuable prepared in other ways. Take the slice as it comes 
from the can and dip it into a good frying batter. Turning the slice in flour first makes 
the batter stick better. Then drop the coated slice into the boiling fat in your deep 
frying kettle and brown it delicately, and you have a delicious PINEAPPPLE FRITTER 
to sprinkle with powdered sugar and serve as a dessert. 

The shredded (grated) pineapple to which I have referred is better for PINEAPPLE 
SHORTCAKES than that which comes in slices. It may be mixed like any other short- 
cake — either as biscuit dough or as a plain cake baked in layers, using the shredded or 
crushed, or the sliced pineapple cut into dice, for a layer between the thicknesses of 
biscuit dough or of cake. Or when you are making up a batch of pies save enough pastry 

to shape into patties or rings for PINEAPPLE TARTS. 
Fill these with the Hawaiian pineapple cut into small 
cubes, either sprinkled with sugar or in a syrup made by 
cooking down the liquid from the can with added sugar, 
to a thick, rich sauce. Put a little whipped cream on 
each tart or patty if you wish a really elegant dessert. 
Pineapples are as valuable an item of the diet as 
oranges, and in some respects possess greater merits. The 
use of the juice in cases of throat troubles has long been 
known, but the discovery is comparatively recent that the 
same juice is so potent an aid to digestion that it is 
employed as a component part of certain pre-digested 
foods. Let this be laid to heart by whose who, having 
eaten the pineapple picked green, and therefore tough, 
have declared it a hard morsel for the stomach. — Christine 
Terhune Herrick. 

[9] 




Canned 
Peaches, 
Hawaiian 
Pineapple 
and 
Bananas ; 
the year- 
round 
dessert 



Just a TDisft of Fruit 



Recipes by Christine Terhune Herrick 

PINEAPPLE SNOW PUDDING-Soak half a package of gelatine 1 hour In a cupful of 
cold water; then stir in 1|/ 2 cups of sugar, the juice of a lemon and a large cupful of 
boiling water. Let the gelatine dissolve, strain the mixture and put it aside to cool. 
When quite cold beat the whites of 3 eggs to a stiff froth and into them beat the mixture, 
a spoonful at a time. Fully half an hour will be required to whip it all properly. When 
all is stiff put into the pudding a cupful of crushed Hawaiian pineapple drained as dry 
as possible. Turn the pudding into a mold and set on the ice. For SAUCE you may 
either cook the pineapple liquid to a syrup, adding to it another cupful of crushed pine- 
apple, and pour this around the mold when it is stiff enough to turn out on a dish; or you 
may make a custard of a pint of milk, the yolks of the 3 eggs and '/ 2 cup of sugar; cook 
together in a double boiler until smooth and thick, set aside to become cold before you 
pour it around the form of pudding which should be turned out on halved slices of pine- 
apple. In any case have all ice cold. Illustrated. — Christine Terhune Herrick. 

PINEAPPLE LAYERS — Strew over a can of grated Hawaiian pineapple J/ 2 cupful of 
granulated sugar and set it in the ice-box. At the end of an hour drain the juice from 
the pulp and put them aside in separate vessels. Cover the bottom of a glass fruit dish 
or china pudding dish with a layer of sponge cake and moisten this with a little of the 
pineapple juice. Spread this with part of the pineapple pulp. Put another layer 
of the moistened cake and another of pineapple and continue until the dish is filled. Make 
a meringue of the whites of 2 eggs beaten light with a tablespoonful of sugar, spread 
this over the top of the pineapple and set in the oven just long enough to brown the 
meringue delicately. Let this become cold before serving and pass with a pitcher of 
cream or custard.— Christine Terhune Herrick. 

PINEAPPLE CUSTARD— Beat the yolks of 5 eggs stiff and add to them Vz cup of 
sugar and a can of grated Hawaiian pineapple. Have ready either one good sized mold 
with plain sides, wet with cold water or several small timbale cups, and fill with the 
pineapple mixture. Set in a pan of warm water, cover, put in the oven and bake steadily 
but not too fast, until the custard is set. Be careful that it cooks only to firmness and 
not long enough for the custard to break. Set aside until 
cold, turn out on a flat dish and surround with whipped cream. 
— Christine Terhune Herrick. 



:' 'x 



HARD SAUCE WITH PINEAPPLE— Beat 4 table- 
spoonfuls of butter with '/ 2 cupful sugar until the 
mixture is white and light. Add a teaspoonful of vanilla ^F\%_ 

and a cup of grated Hawaiian pineapple. Mix well, 
and chill before serving. The success of a hard sauce 
depends upon thorough beating. It should be creamy, 
light and smooth. — Helen Louise Johnson. Hawaiian Pineapple Snow 




[10] 



Puddin, 



8 



Recipes by Janet McKenzie Hill 



in The Boston Cooking School Magazine 

PINEAPPLE BAVAROISE — Line a mold holding 1'/ 4 quarts with slices of canned 
pineapple, split evenly in halves (to make the slices half the thickness of the original). 
Soften !/ 4 package of gelatine in 1/4 cupful of cold water and dissolve by setting the dish 
in hot water. To the gelatine add a cupful of canned Hawaiian grated pineapple, the 
juice of a lemon and [/ 2 cupful, generous measure, of sugar. Stir (over ice water) until 
the mixture begins to thicken, then fold in V/ 2 cupfuls of double cream, beaten solid. 
When the mixture will hold its shape, turn into the lined mold, leaving the mixture 
smooth on top. When chilled and molded, garnish with the other |/ 2 cupful of cream and 

2 tablespoonfuls of sugar, beaten firm, and candied or maraschino cherries. This 
cream is easily prepared and makes a very showy dish, one appropriate for any occasion, 
in the place of ice cream. Illustrated. — Janet McKenzie Hill. 

ORANGE AND PINEAPPLE SALPICON IN ORANGE SHELLS, DAISY FASHION— 

Cut a slice from the stem end of an orange and remove the pulp in as neat pieces 
as possible; reserve these with the juice. With the cover of a tin spice box and 
a plain pastry tube score two rounds, one inside the other, on each of the four sides of 
the orange. Remove the rings of rind between the two scorings, cut the edges in points 
and return each to its proper place, white side out. In scoring and removing the rings 
of skin and, also, in taking out the pulp, be careful and not cut too deep or the shell will 
not hold the liquid. Cut slices of Hawaiian canned pineapple in cubes; add the liquid 
from the can and mix with the orange pulp and juice, and use to fill the shell. Use one 
for each service for a first course at luncheon, served on small plates covered with 
paper doilies.— Janet McKenzie Hill. 

PINEAPPLE PUDDING — 1 pint of heavy cream, % cupfuls of pulverized sugar, '/ 2 box 

of gelatine, a large can of pineapple, preferably shredded (grated or crushed), a shredded 

orange, whites of 3 eggs. Put the gelatine to soak in sufficient water to make with the 

gelatine % of a cupful. When soft, melt by setting in a vessel of hot water. Whip the 

cream, fold in the sugar and fruit, add the gelatine 

whipped light. This recipe will make 2 quarts of pudding. „_ »a 

—Janet McKenzie Hill. £*f „?>£ ^ ;> 

HOT PINEAPPLE SOUFFLE-Scald a can of crushed 
or grated Hawaiian pineapple and a cup of water in the 
blazer; stir in half a cup of any quick-cook- 
ing tapioca, cover and let cook over hot water 
until the tapioca is transparent, then stir in 
Vz cup sugar and fold in the whites of 2 or 

3 eggs beaten dry. Let stand, covered, until 
the egg is "set." Serve hot with sugar and 
cream. — Janet McKenzie Hill. 




[11] 



Hawaiian Pineapple Bavaroise 



Recipes by Helen Louise Johnson 



PINEAPPLE ICE— Boil 1 cup of water with 1 of sugar until the 

JSHtG* syrup spins a delicate thread. Add the juice of 2 lemons, 2 cups of 

cold water and 1 can of grated Hawaiian pineapple. Freeze to a 

mush using equal quantities of ice and salt for the freezing. Serve 

*y in glasses. Illustrated. — Helen Louise Johnson. 

~^\ HAWAIIAN CUSTARD — Spread slices of stale cake or cottage 
pudding thickly with grated Hawaiian Pineapple. Put each slice in 
the individual dish in which it is to be served, and cover with cold 
boiled custard. Or, 
Hawaiian Cut slices of stale cake with a round cutter. Place on each a 

Pineapple Ice slice of the sliced Hawaiian Pineapple drained from its own liquor and 

yt soaked in sherry. Cover with cold boiled custard and serve. Or, 

The slices of cake may be moistened with sherry and the sliced Hawaiian pineapple 
cut into pieces and piled on the cake. Then the custard, to which has been added some 
of the pineapple juice from the can, may be served around the cake. Or, 

The cake may be moistened with maraschino, a slice of Hawaiian pineapple placed 
on top, garnished with maraschino cherries and a custard of the pineapple juice slightly 
thickened with arrowroot (teaspoonful to a cupful of liquor), poured over them. — 
Helen Louise Johnson. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE WITH A SALPICON OF FRUIT— Cover </ 4 package of gelatine 
with '/i cupful of cold water and let stand for '/ 2 hour; dissolve over hot water. Scald 
1 cupful of milk, add 1 cupful of granulated sugar, stir until it is dissolved and the milk 
looks blue. Beat 1 egg very light, add the milk to it, then return the mixture to the double 
boiler and cook for 1 minute. Take from the fire, add the dissolved gelatine and a table- 
spoonful of pineapple juice, flavor with a teaspoonful of vanilla and put away to cool. 
Whip a pint of double cream to a stiff froth. Add to the cooled custard; turn into a mold 
previously wet with cold water and stand in a cold place to harden. When ready to 
serve turn the charlotte from the mold. Garnish with cubes of the sliced Hawaiian pine- 
apple and maraschino cherries. Cover the top of the charlotte with grated stale mac- 
aroons. Or, the mold may be lined with lady fingers and strips of sliced pineapple, and 
the cherries and chopped nuts put on the top after the charlotte has been turned out. 
If PINEAPPPLE CHARLOTTE is desired use the same recipe with \' 2 package of gelatine, 
Yz cupful of sugar and a cupful of grated Hawaiian pineapple.— Helen Louise Johnson. 

CELERY, PINEAPPLE AND NUT SALAD— Cut the slices from a can of sliced Ha- 
waiian pineapple in small cubes. Cut an equal quantity of tender celery into small pieces, 
sprinkle with lemon juice and stand in a cool place until chilled. Add |/4 of a cup of 
blanched and chopped almonds, or pistachio nuts, to a cupful of mayonnaise dressing 
and use sufficient dressing to thoroughly mix with the celery and pineapple. Serve on 
lettuce leaves and garnish if desired with more chopped nuts. — Helen Louise Johnson. 

PINEAPPLE AND PIMENTO SALAD— Drain sliced Hawaiian pineapple from its liquor 
and cut into cubes. Mix with a cream mayonnaise dressing, arrange on lettuce leaves 
and garnish with strips of pimentos. — Helen Louise Johnson. 

[12] 



Recipes by Helen Louise Johnson 



PINEAPPLE AND GRAPEFRUIT SALAD - Cut sliced Hawaiian pineapple into cubes 
and mix carefully with sections of grapefruit pulp. Mix with thick cream mayonnaise 
dressing, put on lettuce leaves and sprinkle thickly with very finely chopped nuts. — 
Helen Louise Johnson. 

JELLIES — To be perfect a jelly should be transparent, brilliant and only stiff enough 
to just hold its form, not solid. In general, two ounces of gelatine (the amount supposed 
to be in every package) will jelly 2 quarts of liquid, but this must be proved by 
trial, not only of the gelatine but the kinds of liquid. Remember it takes propor- 
tionately more gelatine and more time in hot than in cold weather. Gelatine should 
soak in cold water and be dissolved over hot; never heated to boiling point, as this 
renders it sticky and develops unpleasant flavor and odor. To keep fruit from settling 
put into the mold a little at a time, adding more as the jelly stiffens. Following are 

SEVEN VARIETIES — With skill in combining different flavors and colors a great variety 
of jellies can be made with both the grated and sliced Hawaiian pineapple. The jelly 
may be molded in a border mold and cubes of the sliced pineapple heaped in the center; 
or a charlotte russe molded in the border mold and pineapple jelly heaped in the center; 
or a pineapple jelly molded in the border mold, and the center filled with a delicate wine 
jelly. The jelly may be used as a border and the center filled with fruit — sliced Hawaiian 
pineapple, mixed with strawberries, cherries or raspberries. Peaches and pineapple may 
be used with whipped cream. Baked rhubarb cut into inch pieces, or stewed figs mix 
well with Hawaiian pineapple. — Helen Louise Johnson. 

PINEAPPLE PIE — Line a ten-inch pie plate with any good pastry crust and fill with a 
can of crushed or grated Hawaiian pineapple to which has been added a full cup of 
sugar and a teaspoonful of cornstarch moistened in water. — Helen Louise Johnson. 

BROWN BETTY— Take a can of the sliced Hawaiian pineapple, and drain the fruit 

from the syrup. Cut into pieces. In a quart pudding dish arrange alternate layers of the 

pineapple and bread crumbs; season each layer of bread crumbs 

with bits of butter and a pinch of cinnamon if de- r \ 

sired. When the dish is full pour over the contents one f^ 

cupful of the pineapple juice to which has been added a little 

lemon juice. Cover the top with crumbs. Place the dish in a 

pan containing hot water, and bake for three-quarters of an 

hour. Serve with cream or any sauce, or grated 

canned Hawaiian pineapple may be used with an 

addition of finely chopped almonds, making a 

delicious pudding. 

Or, stale cake or slices of buttered bread may be 
used in place of the bread crumbs, adding a little 
sherry to the pineapple juice and baking for not 
more than 30 minutes. Cream or a creamy sauce 
should be served with this. — Helen Louise Johnson. 




[13] 



Pineapple Slices with Whipped 
Cream — An easy dessert 



Recipes by Alice Getchell Kirk 






PINEAPPLE VICTORIA CREAM— Put y 2 cupful Cassava tapioca Into a saucepan 
with sufficient cold water to soften. Let stand 5 or 10 minutes. Pour in V/ 2 cupfuls of 
boiling water, and set over the fire, stirring constantly; if it thickens too much before 
clearing add a little more boiling water — it is done when it is clear and transparent. 
Remove from the fire, add J/ 2 lb. sugar and 1 can grated pineapple less J/ 2 cupful of the 
juice, which can be reserved for sauces, punch or lemonade. Mix the pineapple well with 
the tapioca and add juice of half a lemon. Beat whites of eggs stiff (J/ 2 cup), then cut and 
fold them in until all are well mixed lightly together. Turn into an attractive serving 
dish and put into the refrigerator or a cool place until ready for use. Serve with plain 
cream. All measurements level unless otherwise stated. — Alice Getchell Kirk. 

HAWAIIAN PINEAPPLE PACKERS' ASSOCIATION PUNCH -Add 2 cupfuls 
granulated sugar to 3 cupfuls of boiling water, stir until dissolved, boil five minutes 
and cool. Put 2 tablespoonfuls Ceylon tea into a pitcher and pour over a quart of boil- 
ing water, cover and let stand 15 minutes. Strain this into the cooled syrup. Now add 
a can of grated Hawaiian pineapple; also the juices of 6 lemons and 5 oranges, 1 pint 
fruit juice and a quart of any fresh berries which are suitable with the pineapple, such 
as strawberries, cherries or raspberries. Into the bottom of the punch bowl, put i/ 2 
pint of crushed and bruised mint leaves, a nice block of ice, with the cold fruits and 
juices, etc., and Apollinaris water. Fruits are much better if prepared the day before 
(except the fresh berries), covered and set in a cold place. This amount will serve 25 
people. All measurements level unless otherwise stated. — Alice Getchell Kirk. 



JELLY A LA RUSSE — Cover J/ 2 package of gelatine with J/ 2 cup of cold water and 
let stand V z hour. Add a cup of boiling water and stir until the gelatine is dis- 
solved. Add a cupful of sugar and when dissolved strain 
the liquid into a bowl. Add a cupful of grated Hawaiian 
pineapple, the juice of an orange and of half a lemon. 
When cool color a delicate green or pink, turn Into 
a mold p/eviously wet with cold water and let stand 
until formed before serving. No attempt should be 
made to make a jelly of this character turn out per- 
fectly molded. It should break or shiver into small 
cubes in the glass dish in which it should be 
served. — Helen Louise Johnson. 




Fruit Salad of Hawaiian Canned 
Pineapple, Apricots, Prunes, Cherries 
and Whipped Cream, with a dressing 
of syrups boiled down and flavored 
with lemon juice and sherry wine. — 
Mrs. Stuart. 



PINEAPPLE SHORTCAKE-Make a rich bis- 
cuit slightly sweetened and bake in two parts or 
a round cake fully an inch thick. If the latter, 
split while hot and butter. For the filling use 
crushed Hawaiian canned pineapple. Before fill- 
ing, drain off the surplus juice and use it with 
whipped cream as a sauce. — Emma Paddock Telford. 



[14] 






Recipes by Anna W. Morrison 



in The Ladies' 1 World 

SPONGE PINEAPPLE PUDDING— Put stale sponge 
pint mold or bowl, pouring over it as much thick 
juice as will moisten the cake; set in a cool place 
ng time, then invert onto a dish and tap the bowl 
gh to allow the cake to slip out unbroken. Ar- 
ed or grated Hawaiian pineapple around it. II- 
Anna W. Morrison. 




Sponge Pineapple Pudding 



cake in a 
pineapple 
until serv 
hard enou 
range slic 
lustrated. 

FRUIT FLEECE— To one quart of boiling water add J4 pint sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls 
strained apple sauce juice, grated rind of J/ 2 a lemon; boil the mixture down to 1 pint and 
into this stir a rounding tablespoonful cornstarch wet with 2 tablespoonfuls cold water; 
boil until clear, then add a teaspoonful of butter and pour while hot on the stiffly beaten 
whites of 2 eggs, beating constantly. Have ready any left-over fruit — berries, cherries, 
or larger fruit cut into small pieces; wet cups with cold water, drain and put the corn- 
starch mixture and fruits in layers and let all become cold before removing from the 
cups. Serve with sweetened flavored milk or a vanilla flavored custard.— AnnaW. Morrison. 

GRATED PINEAPPLE OMELET— Beat 4 eggs without separating until they are 
light; add 4 tablespoonfuls of water and just a suspicion of salt. Put a tablespoonful, 
of butter in an omelet pan; when melted turn in the eggs. Have ready grated Ha- 
waiian canned pineapple, and so soon as the omelet is "set" fold in some pineapple, 
turn in a heated dish and pour the remaining pineapple over.— Anna W. Morrison. 

FRUIT COMPOTE — Allow a halved canned peach for each guest and arrange in the 
center of a dish, placing a slice of banana in each center, after dipping each slice in 
lemon juice. Arrange halved sliced pineapple overlapping each other about the peaches, 
and outside of this layer place canned cherries or halved seeded Malaga grapes. Simmer 
a pint of the peach, pineapple and cherry juice until like strained honey; add a little; 
lemon juice to give zest; when it cools pour over the fruit and let all stand to become 
Chilled before serving.— Anna W. Morrison. 

UNEXPECTED COMPANY SALAD-Drain the juice from a can of sliced Hawaiian 
pineapple and peaches; lay the slices on individual plates and set halved peaches on top 
of the pineapple, placing a pitted stewed prune or several sour cherries in the pit cavity 
of the peaches, and pour over each slice the dressing. A bit of whipped cream can top 
each salad before serving. Use the following dressing or see page 20. — AnnaW. Morrison. 

FRENCH FRUIT DRESSING— Mix 4 tablespoons olive oil, '/ 2 teaspoon salt, dash of pep- 
per, 1 tablespoon lemon juice or vinegar and 1 of sour cherry juice.— Anna W. Morrison. 



Every recipe in this book was made with canned Hawaiian pineapple. Do not expect to 
get the same satisfactory results with fresh or other canned pineapple. 

[15] 



Recipes by Marion Harris Neil 

in Table Talk 

Canned Hawaiian pineapple has the delicious flavor that everybody likes, and with It 
a texture as tender and delicate as that of a peach. — Marion Harris Neil, M.C.A. 

PINEAPPLE GATEAU — A can of sliced Hawaiian pineapple, 1 stale sponge cake, Vz 
pint of whipping cream, a heaping tablespoonful of sugar, / 2 glass of sherry wine, 2 
ounces of angelica and 2 ounces of glace cherries. Cut each slice of Hawaiian Pineapple 
in half and place on dish to form a round — there should be a little space between each 
pi ece — on these lay pieces of cake, arrange the cake over the space between the 
slices of pineapple. The cake should be cut into pieces the same size and thickness as 
those of the pineapple. Build up the gateau until all the cake and pineapple are used. 
Whip the cream stiffly, add the sugar and flavor it with the sherry wine. Pour all 
over the gateau some Hawaiian pineapple juice flavored with a little of the wine. Fill 
in the center with the cream, heaping it up on the top. Cut the angelica into fancy 
pieces, arrange them on the cream and stick the cherries in the spaces between the 
pieces of cake. It is a very delicious and handsome dish and will serve eight or nine 
people. Illustrated. — Marion Harris Neil. 

SLICED PINEAPPLE WITH OTHER FRUITS— Pile the slices of a can of Hawaiian 
pineapple in a pretty dish. Mix together 2 sliced oranges, 2 tablespoonfuls of the pine- 
apple juice, 2 sliced and chopped apples, 12 maraschino cherries cut in halves and some 
chopped angelica. Pile some of this mixture on the top of the pineapple and place the 
remainder round the base. Make a syrup with half a cupful of the juice, the rind and 
strained juice of a lemon, and 3 tablespoonfuls of sugar. Boil gently 10 minutes, cool 
and pour over the chopped fruit. Serve very cold. — Marion Harris Neil. 

PINEAPPLE SYLLABUB-Beat up the whites of 3 eggs 
stiffly, add gradually 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar and a 
teaspoonful of vanilla extract. Whip up 2 cupfuls of 
thick cream to a stiff froth and fold in, a spoonful at a 
time, the eggs and sugar. Add gradually one can of 
grated Hawaiian pineapple. Chill and serve in punch 
glasses. Illustrated on page 8. — Marion Harris Neil. 

PINEAPPLE FRITTERS— Beat up an egg in a 

basin, sift in a cupful of flour, gradually add |/ 2 
cupful of milk, Va- teaspoonful salt, and a teaspoon- 
ful of Rae's Olive Oil. Mix till smooth and glossy. 
Allow to stand in a cool place for an hour, then 
add a teaspoonful of baking powder. Dip one 
slice of pineapple at a time, drop into smok- 
ing hot fat, fry for a few minutes, then drain. 
Serve hot with sifted sugar. — Marion Harris Neil. 




m 



Hawaiian Pineapple Gateau 



[16] 



Recipes by Maria Parloa 



"You may quote from me, if you wish, the three lines at the bottom of page 37 of 
my KITCHEN COMPANION."— Maria Parloa. 

This permission came in a letter from Miss Parloa along with the recipes which fol- 
low. The quotation reads thus: "When buying canned goods of any kind, always try to 
get those which have been put up near where the fruit or vegetable is found in its best 
state." These recipes are especially valuable because they were probably the last dishes 
originated and tested by Miss Parloa, whose sudden death in October, 1909, must be 
regretted by all who are fond of good things to eat. 

PINEAPPLE AND RICE PUDDING OR TAPIOCA-wash >/ 2 cupful rice in several 
waters, then put it in the double boiler with 2</ 2 cupfuls milk and j/ 2 teaspoonful salt and 
cook it two hours. At the end of one hour stir in lightly with a fork one slice of canned 
Hawaiian pineapple, cut very fine. At the end of 2 hours rinse a charlotte mold or a bowl 
in cold water and pack the pudding in it. Let stand about 10 minutes, then turn out on 
a flat dish and garnish the base with pineapple. To prepare the pineapple for garnishing 
cut the slices in halves and spread them on a large plate. Sprinkle 3 tablespoonfuls of 
granulated sugar over the fruit and cook in a moderate oven for half an hour. Serve the 
pudding with a hot pineapple sauce, made the same as "Pineapple Sauce" for "Pineapple 
Pudding." (See page 18.) Tapioca may be used instead of rice. Illustrated.— Maria Parloa. 

PINEAPPLE CHARLOTTE— Soak y 2 package gelatine in % cupful cold water for 
several hours, then place the bowl in a pan of boiling water, and stir frequently while 
the gelatine is dissolving. Turn a can of crushed Hawaiian pineapple into a large bowl 
and add V/ 2 cupfuls sugar and juice of 2 lemons. Now stir in the dissolved gelatine and 
the whites of 2 eggs. Place the bowl in a pan of ice water and stir the mixture frequently. 
When it begins to thicken beat with a whisk until light and frothy. Turn into a mold 
that has been lined with lady-fingers or strips of sponge cake. Set on ice to harden. 
At serving time, turn out on a flat dish. Serve with whipped cream or CUSTARD 
SAUCE made by beating together 3 large table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, whites and yolks of 3 
eggs and J/ 8 teaspoonful of salt. Add '/ 2 cup- 
ful of cold milk. Heat 2J/ 2 cupfuls milk to 
the boiling point in the double boiler. Pour the 
boiling milk on the egg mixture. Stir well and 
return to the boiler. Cook over boiling water, 
stirring all the time, until the custard begins 
to coat the spoon. It will take about 5 minutes. 
Take from the fire instantly and pour Into the 
bowl. Place the bowl in cold water and stir 
frequently until cold. Add flavor, half a tea- 
spoonful of bitter almond or 1 teaspoonful 
vanilla. — Maria Parloa. 




[17] 



Pineapple Tapioca 
or Pineapple Rice Pudding 



Recipes by Maria Parloa 



PINEAPPLE PUDDING, STEAMED OR BAKED-Turn can crushed Hawaiian pine- 
apple into a strainer. Put V/ 2 cupfuls unsifted flour, V/ 2 tablespoonfuls sugar, Vz tea- 
spoonful salt and V/ 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder together and rub through the sieve; 
Rub V/ 2 tablespoonfuls butter into the dry ingredients. Now add % cupful sweet milk 
and beat well. Butter and then flour nine little earthen cups. Put a tablespoonful of the 
batter in each cup, and draw to the sides. Fill the wells with the solid pineapple, saving 
the juice for the sauce, then cover with the remainder of the batter. Place the cups in 
a steamer and cook for J/ 2 hour over rapidly boiling water. Turn out on a warm dish 
and serve with pineapple sauce. These puddings may be baked half an hour, but they 
are more delicate when steamed. PINEAPPLE SAUCE — Mix together y 2 cupful of 
sugar and 1 tablespoonful of flour. Pour on this 1 generous cupful of hot pineapple juice. 
Place on the fire and stir until the mixture begins to boil. Boil 10 minutes and then add 
54 teaspoonful of salt and a tablespoonful of butter, and serve with the pudding. — Maria 
Parloa. 

PINEAPPLE SHERBET— strain 1 can grated Hawaiian pineapple and add y 2 cupful of 
sugar to the solid fruit. Let this cook slowly for \' 2 hour, then chill. Boil 3 cupfuls of 
water and V/ 2 cupfuls sugar together for 15 minutes, then cool. To this cold syrup add 
the juice from the can of pineapple and the juice of 3 lemons. Turn this into freezer 
and pack with salt and ice, using about 5 cupfuls coarse salt and enough finely pounded 
ice to pack the freezer solidly. Turn the freezer slowly for the first 10 minutes, then 
rapidly, until the mixture is frozen — about 10 minutes more. Now wipe the salt from 
the cover of the freezer and remove. Take out the beater, scraping off all the sherbet. 
Add the cooked pineapple and beat well. Cover and let stand half an hour or more. Serve 
In sherbet glasses. This sherbet will be light, creamy and white, and of delicious flavor 
and fine texture. — Maria Parloa. 

FRUIT PUNCH _ Pour 2 qts. boiling water on 2 teaspoonfuls tea and let it steep 
for 5 minutes, then strain into a large bowl. Add 2 cupfuls sugar and 1 tumbler lemon 
juice. When cold add the juice from a can of Hawaiian sliced pineapple and the slices 

of pineapple cut in fine pieces. Put a large piece of ice 
in the punch bowl and pour the punch over it. Be sure 
and cut the pineapple with a silver-plated knife, as steel 
gives it a metallic taste. — Maria Parloa. 

FRUIT TART— Line a deep pie dish with either puff 
or short pastry and bake a delicate yellow. A half hour 
before serving fill with canned Hawaiian Pineapple, 
grated, crushed or sliced. Pour over a thick boiled cus- 
tard seasoned delicately with vanilla and place where it 
will chill. A meringue can be placed on top, or pastry 
stars, baked at the same time as the lining, make a 
dainty and novel finish. — Anna W. Morriton. 



Just 

it comes 

from the can." 




[18] 




Crushed or Grated Hawaiian 
Pineapple frozen in tlie can. 
Served with IVhipped Cream 

Finish by 



Recipes by Lilian Dynevor Rice 

in the Housewife 

PINEAPPLE AND CREAM CHEESE SALAD - use the 

pale green heart leaves of lettuce, arranging a ring of these 

on individual salad plates. On each ring put a whole slice 

of canned Hawaiian pineapple drained and slit across with 

a sharp knife so that it can be easily divided by the salad 

fork yet does not show the cutting until eaten. Rub a fresh 

cream cheese through a ricer or colander on the pineapple 

so that it stands up in light delicate flakes, then with a 

teaspoon gently put in the hole of the pineapple guava or currant jelly. 

sprinkling with a French dressing in which lemon juice is used instead of vinegar. The 

combined flavors of the dressing, pineapple, tart jelly and delicate cheese are deliciously 

blended. Serve fingers of whole wheat bread and butter with this salad. — Lilian Dynevor Rice. 

ROYAL PINEAPPLE TARTS— Dry off a pint of flour in the oven, but do not let it 
brown, then sift it twice with a teaspoonful of baking powder. Sift a pint of granu- 
lated sugar and beat to a smooth cream with 2/3 of a pint of butter — unsalted or with 
the salt washed out by kneading the butter in cold water. After the sugar and butter 
are creamed work in the flour and add enough ice water to make a paste that can be 
rolled. Beat it with the rolling pin for 10 minutes, folding it over from time to time, 
then roll out to i/4-inch thickness. Cut out with a thin tumbler, dipping the edge in 
dry flour between cuttings. With a ring cutter make half the quantity into rings, 
putting one on each round, holding the two together by brushing between with white 
of egg. Bake until of a light brown. Add to a cupful of grated or crushed Hawaiian 
pineapple a teaspoonful of butter, the juice of a lemon and half a cupful of sugar and 
simmer until thick, then drain off the juice and let both pulp and juice cool. Fill the 
tart form with the chilled pulp and lay on each a ring of sliced pineapple, boil down 
the juice for a minute or so to make it still thicker, then glaze the pineapple slice with 
it and fill the hole in the center with currant or quince jelly. These are highly orna- 
mental tarts and aside from the paste are easily made. — Lilian Dynevor Rice. 



PINEAPPLE TURNOVERS— Make a plain pastry dough, roll thin and cut into 4-inch 
squares. Drain a can of crushed Hawaiian pineapple, saving the juice 
for sherbets and sauces. On each square put a large spoonful of pine- 
apple, a small piece of butter and a spoonful of granulated sugar. Fold 
the squares into triangles, pinching the edges firmly together so that 
they will not come apart in the process of cooking. Fry in deep lard 
and serve warm, dusted with powdered sugar. — Pictorial Review. 




Hawaiian 
Pineapple un- 
adorned is a 
delicate ap- 
petiser 



PINEAPPLE OMELETTE— Make the ordinary 5-egg omelette and fold 
into it, while the omelette is still soft, a pineapple filling made from a can 
of crushed pineapple which has been gently cooked with a cup of sugar 
until the juice has been reduced. Dust thickly with sugar and brown.— 
Pictorial Review. 

[19] 



Recipes by Sarah Tyson Rorer 



HAWAIIAN CREAM PIE— Drain 1 can Hawaiian crushed pineapple. Beat 14 cup 
butter to a cream, add the yolks of 2 eggs, beat and gradually add 1(/ 2 cups sugar; when 
very light add the pineapple juice. Mix 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder and 2J/ 2 cups 
flour, sift twice, and add to the first mixture. Beat the whites, stir them in carefully 
at last and bake the mixture in square or round layer cake pans. (See illustration.) 
While they are baking make the CREAM — Put a pint of milk in a double boiler, add a 
level tablespoonful of cornstarch moistened in 1/4 cupful of cold milk. Stir and cook 
5 minutes, then add the yolks of 2 eggs beaten with 1/4 cupful of sugar; cook a moment, 
take from the fire and beat it a little with an egg beater. Beat the whites of the eggs 
to a stiff froth, add 2 tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar and beat until dry. Remove 
the "pie" from the oven as soon as done. Remove one layer, place it on the inverted 
pan, heap the meringue on it, dust it heavily with powdered sugar and return It to the 
oven to brown. Remove the other layers, place one on a platter, put over a thick layer 
of the drained "crushed" pineapple, dust with powdered sugar, then another layer of 
pineapple and sugar and the top layer with the meringue. Pour the cream in the bottom 
of the dish and send to the table. — Sarah Tyson Rorer. 

HONOLULU SALAD — Drain 1 can sliced Hawaiian pineapple, and put aside the juice 
for pudding sauce or other flavoring. Put the yolks of 2 eggs in a cold dish, and add, 
beating all the while, drop by drop, the olive oil, until you have a thick, smooth mayon- 
naise; add slowly the juice of half a lemon. Cut the pineapple into dice, squeeze over 
the juice of a lemon. Wash and dry a head of lettuce, arrange it neatly in the salad 
bowl, put the pineapple in the center, dust it lightly with salt and cayenne, and pour 
over the mayonnaise. Dust the top with paprika. — Sarah Tyson Rorer. 

PINEAPPLE JELLY; SAUCE SABAYON-Cover >/ 2 box gelatine with '/ z pint cold 
water and soak a half hour. Then add to it the juice of a lemon, '/j. lb. sugar and 1 
can grated Hawaiian pineapple. Stir over the fire until boiling, remove from the fire 
and stand aside until cool and just creamy thick. Stir in carefully the well beaten whites 
of 3 eggs and turn it at once into a mold. SAUCE SABAYON — Heat 1 pt. milk in a 
double boiler. Beat the yolks of 3 eggs and !/4 cupful sugar together, add the hot milk, 
return to the boiler, and stir until creamy; cool. Serve the jelly in a pudding dish with 
the sauce poured around. Garnish with whipped cream or serve plain. — Sarah Tyson Rorer. 

FRUIT MAYONNAISE DRESSING FOR PINEAPPLE SALADS — Melt 8 rounding 

tablespoons butter, add 1 of flour, stir until blended; 
then add J/ 2 pint warm milk, stirring constantly 
until it becomes like cream; remove from the 
• //* / • j — ■ _> fire and add 3 beaten eggs, V 2 cup vinegar, 3 

^s^^^^^—. - ^ "^vX ,eve| tablespoons sugar, 1 level teaspoon salt, 

tftijf M/f 0) |/ 2 teaspoon ground mustard, a tiny bit of red 

pepper or 1/4 teaspoon black pepper; beat all to- 
gether and keep in a cool place. When serving 
add !/ 2 pint cream to it, thoioughly mixing 
together. — Anna W. Morrison. 
Hawaiian Cream Pie F 9fi 1 




Recipes by Sarah Pearson Stuart 




Hawaiian Pineapple Salad 



in The American Housekeeper 

The canning of Hawaiian pineapple is a very quick 
and near-to-nature process. A great deal of thought 
jj^ and capital has been put into this work. The pineapples 

¥ JM IS are brought in from the fields to the canneries in truck 

loads. From that time the fruit is not touched by human 
hands. The machines pare the pineapples, and as they 
are thoroughly ripe, this is a delicate operation. Then 
they are cored by other machines and sliced — and such 
slices; good, big, thick, generous ones. Then they are put 
in the specially made sanitary cans, and a syrup of pure 
granulated sugar is poured over them. The cans are 
quickly sealed and thoroughly sterilized. Absolutely 
nothing is added to the fruit except the sugar, and this 

merely to safely preserve it, in fact, there is nothing that could possibly be added to 

improve its own delicious pureness. — Sarah Pearson Stuart. 

HAWAIIAN PINEAPPLE SALAD-For a dainty luncheon there is nothing nicer than 
a salad made of sliced Hawaiian pineapple. Use 1 can pineapple, 1/2 grape fruit sliced, 
1 tart apple cut in small cubes, 1 head of lettuce, and garnish with 1 small bottle mara- 
schino cherries. Serve with French dressing, or the following special DRESSING: 1 cup 
of the pineapple juice, the juice of y 2 grapefruit and 5/4 cup of juice from the mara- 
schino cherries; this makes a sweet dressing. Illustrated. — Sarah Pearson Stuart. 

HAWAIIAN PINEAPPLE TRIFLE— Cut four oblong blocks of pound cake for each 
dish. Place two of these in bottom of dish about two inches apart. On top place one 
slice of Hawaiian pineapple. Then two more blocks of the cake placed in opposite 
direction from the first two. And again another slice of pineapple. Surmount with a 
teaspoonful of whipped cream and a maraschino cherry, a strawberry, or any berries 
in season. For individual service. Illustrated. — Sarah Pearson Stuart. 

CRUSHED PINEAPPLE SHERBET— Line a sherbet glass with lady fingers, put 
a layer of vanilla ice cream in the bottom of the glass, then 2 tablespoonfuls of crushed 
Hawaiian pineapple, and top this with more vanilla cream. Surmount with cherry either 
fresh or candied according to season. — Sarah Pearson Stuart. 

HAWAIIAN PINEAPPLE MACEDOINE_Make a smooth, oval 
mold of rice boiled tender, sweetened, flavored, and moistened with the 
juice from the pineapple can. Around this arrange the sliced pineapple 
cut in halves. Around the edge of the serving dish place halved 
peaches either fresh or canned. — Sarah Pearson Stuart. 



Hawaiian Pineapple is "Picked Ripe" and "Canned Right." 
sure you get Hawaiian — all good grocers sell it. 

[21] 



Be 




Pineapple Trifl, 



Recipes by Emma Paddock Telford 

in The Delineator 



Pineapple 
Mb, Meringue Pie 




As a digester ripe pineapple has no equal. ^_ 
It is better, therefore, to serve it toward the 
last of the meal at breakfast, or as an accom- 
paniment or follower of the meat course at din- 
ner, where it assists in the digestion of the 
food. The old objection to the free use of pine- 
apples — that their price was prohibitive save during three or four months of 
the year — no longer obtains. New canning industries enable us to enjoy some 
of the most delicious pineapples on earth. From the fields these are sent direct 
to scientifically clean American canneries, where they are packed in sanitary 
cans, covered with a syrup of pure granulated sugar, sterilized by steam, sealed, 
and made ready for shipment without the touch of human hands. The woody 
fibre that gives a hard core to most pineapples, save those grown under glass, 
is entirely lacking in those grown in a semi-tropical country where wood does 
not flourish, while prices are no higher than any first-grade fruit canned under sanitary 
conditions. — Emma Paddock Telford. 

PINEAPPLE PIE (with and without Meringue.) —Line a pie plate with a good crust 
and fill with canned, crushed or grated Hawaiian pineapple mingled with a cupful of 
sugar, a tablespoonful of softened butter, the well-beaten yolks of 2 eggs and lastly the 
whites of 2 eggs beaten stiff and folded in. Cross strips of crust over the top. If 
preferred, a teaspoonful of cornstarch dissolved in a little water may be added to the 
pineapple with the yolks of the eggs, and the whites of the eggs reserved for meringue. 
After the pie is baked whip the whites of the eggs stiff with two tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
pile lightly on top of the pie and set in a cool oven to puff and color a golden brown. 
Illustrated. — Emma Paddock Telford. 




PINEAPPLE PANCAKES— Make a batter of Vz lb. sifted flour, 3 large eggs 



and 



a cup of milk. Have ready a well-buttered sheet-iron frying pan, and pour in about 
3 tablespoonfuls of the batter. As soon as brown on one side reverse and brown. Take 
up carefully, put on a hot service plate and cover with pineapple preserves, made from 
grated or crushed Hawaiian canned pineapple. Over this put a second cake, then more 

pineapple and so on until all the batter has been used. 

Cut in segments like a pie. — Emma Paddock Telford. 

PINEAPPLE SPONGE— Heat 3 cups of crushed or 
grated Hawaiian pineapple, add V 2 package of gelatine 
soaked an hour in J/ 2 cup of cold water, take from the 
fire and turn into a dish set in a pan of chipped ice. 
When partly cool add well-whipped whites of 4 eggs 
and beat until the entire mixture is spongy and 
thickened. Pour into a mold and set away to harden. 
Serve with whipped and sweetened cream or a soft 
custard made from the yolks of 4 eggs, 1 qt. milk and 
4 tablespoonfuls of sugar. — Emma Paddock Telford. 




Pineapple Pie without the 
Meringue 



[22] 



Recipes by Virginia Terhune Van de Water 

PINEAPPLE TAPIOCA— Cover a cup of pearl tapioca with cold water and soak for 
6 or 8 hours. Turn into a porcelain-lined saucepan, add a very little water and boil 
until clear. Drain the liquor from a can of crushed Hawaiian pineapple. Add to the 
boiled tapioca y 2 cupful granulated sugar and, when this is dissolved, beat in the pine- 
apple. When cool, turn into a mold and set on the ice until chilled. Serve on slices of 
Hawaiian pineapple with sugar and cream or with the sweet pineapple liquor. (Illus- 
trated on page 17.) — Virginia Terhune Van de Water. 

PINEAPPLE MOUSSE — For this dish use the grated canned pineapple. Soak Vz box 
gelatine In a gill of cold water. Beat 4 eggs — the yolks and whites separate — very light. 
Put the soaked gelatine into a double-boiler, add a gill of boiling water and when the 
gelatine is dissolved add 1 lb. granulated sugar. As soon as this is melted stir in the 
juice of a lemon and take from the fire. Beat the grated and drained pineapple gradually 
Into the egg-yolks and add — also gradually — the gelatine. Set the bowl containing these 
Ingredients into an outer vessel of crushed ice, and beat in by the great spoonful the egg 
whites. When well-blended, and the mixture begins to stiffen, add a pint of whipped 
cream and beat 4 or 5 minutes longer. Turn into a freezer and freeze. Serve in tall 
glasses with a maraschino cherry on the top of each. (Illustrated on page 12.) — Virginia 
Terhune Van de Water. 

BAKED APPLES — Pare and core the apples. Fill the centers with grated Hawaiian 
pineapple to which has been added a little butter melted and some sultana raisins. Put 
the apples in a pan with a little water to which has been added a teaspoonful of lemon 
Juice and bake until tender, but they should not lose their shape. Baste frequently, 
remove from the oven and sprinkle with granulated sugar to which has been added a 
little cinnamon. — Helen Louise Johnson. 

PINEAPPLE PUDDING SAUCE-Beat the whites of 4 eggs to a stiff dry froth with 
2 tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar. Add 2 cupfuls of grated Hawaiian pineapple, 
beat the mixture well, and serve. — Helen Louise Johnson. 



PINEAPPLE JELLY WITH WAFERS— Cut sliced pine- 
apple (Canned Hawaiian) into small pieces, put it into a 
saucepan with the juice and 3 cupfuls of water, simmer for 
half an hour. Strain into another saucepan, add another cup- 
ful of water, 3 tablespoonfuls of powdered gelatine, 2 of 
sugar, rind and juice of a lemon, crushed shells and beaten 
whites of 2 eggs. Keep hot for twenty minutes without boil 
ing, then strain and when nearly cold line a square mold 
with some of it. Decorate with four sugar wafers, setting 
them with a little of the jelly, then fill up mold with the rest 
of the jelly. Set away in a cool place. Turn out carefully, 
decorate with wafers and serve with the grated pineapple. 
Illustrated. — Marion Harria Neil. 




[23] 



Pineapple Jelly 
with Wafer$ 




( Continued from Page 4 ) 

mutilated contents. Remove enough of 
the label to expose the seam on the side 
of the can; lay the can on its side and in- 
sert the opener (Fig. 1 ) right next to the 
seam and close to the top; then hold the 
can firmly on the table in an upright posi- 
tion (Fig. 2) and work the opener away 

from the seam 
until you have 
cut entirely 
round the can; 




In serving Sliced Hawaiian Canned Pine- 
apple, do not forget that the fragrance of the 
perfectly ripened fruit is imprisoned in the her- 
metically sealed can, that all fragrance is more or 
less volatile, and therefore, the quicker you can 
serve after opening the can, the more exquisite 
will be the aroma added to the delicious flavor. 
It is needless to say that no fruit should be left 
in the can after the can has been opened; also 
it should be kept in a covered dish while await- 
ing use. 

HAWAIIAN PINEAPPLE PACKERS' ASSOCIATION 
Honolulu, Hawaii 




now you can turn back 
the entire top (Fig. 3) 
and carefully pour out 
the fruit without breaking 
a single one of the tender 
slices (Fig. 4). 



V 




LIBRARY 



CONGRESS 




