Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2015 



https://archive.org/details/cookingutensilsc610hark 




ALLEN COUNTY PUBL C LIBRARY 











3 1833 01785 6938 



CCX)KING UTENSILS AND COOKERY OF OUR 
GRANDMOTHERS 



By MRS. J. MAX HARK 

LEBANON, PA. 






!■ 



LARD DIPS. CANDLE STICKS AND LAMPS 
or. THE LIGHT OF OTHER DAYS 

By MISS MARY L ROEDEL 
LEBANON. PA. - 



PAPERS READ BEFORE THE 

Lebanon County Historical Society 

SEPTEMBER II. 1914 



genealogy 

974 . 801 

L49L 

V.6, 

NO. 10 



Vol VI 



No. 10 




Allen County Public LibraQf 
900 Webster Street 
PO Bax 2270 

Fort Wayne, IN 46^1-2270 






Cfcoking Utensils and Cookery of 
* Our Grandmothers 



By Mrs. J. Max Hark 



niost important thing in cookery is the fire. And un- 
til a' little more than a hundred years ago it was also the most 
troublesome thing. Now we need t>ut touch a button, and 
C our electric cooker glows. A hundred years ago making the 
fire was a good deal harder than getting the dinner after one 
had the fire. For then there were no friction matches- even 
nothing but sulphur match-sticks, which could be kindled only 
by the aid of fire otherwise ‘obtained, .usually from sparks 
struck from a flint and steel, and made to fall upon dr}’’ pow- 
dered punk, or charred wood, and then laboriously' fanned into 
a flame, ^he sulphur sticks were used only to transfer fire 
from one place to another. 

Let us imagine it, then, transferred to the pile of wood, 
j'/referably hickory or birch, for the harder the wood the hotter 
the fire, which has been laid ready for kindling in the huge 
open fire-place. For cook-stoves, too, were comparatively rare 
a hundred years ago, and there are some charming ladies still 
living here in Lebanon, who remember with reminiscent gusto 
the delicious pot-pie their mothers used to bake in a pot hang- 
ing from a crane in the eight-foot fire-place in the kitchen 
of their spacious homes that stood, only a few years ago, not 
more than a block away from whCTe we now are. 

The fire-place was furnished with iron or brass fire-dogs 
and fenders only in the living room and parlor. In the kitch- 
en fire-place hung a swinging crane, from - which was sus- 
pended a large iron, brass or copper pot or kettle, as might 



226 



Lebanon 



CounSTTi 



Historical Society 






be needed at the tiine. -Sometimes even a flat plate or griddle 
was thus suspcnde<l, on which were baked the buckwheat and 
other griddle cakes "for breakfast. Ordinarily, however, such 
baking, as also the frying of meats, potatoes, etc., was done 
either in -an iron pan liaving three l^s and a long handle, or 
on an iron p-ate which, was set on an iron ring having three ^ 

legs about -four to si.x inches in height. 'This stood directly 
over the glowing embers To stir the contents of the pots 
in which the potatoes, turnips and cabbage, with duntplings, ■ 
or “knepp.” were l)oiling, a long iron spoon was used. .-Ml 
these iron utensils with the square gridirtn were commonly 
kept hanging against the sides of the fire-place, when not in 
use. - The beautifuby polished tea kettle of beaten copper, 
usTially hung from the crane ; though it too. might be stood 
on the' iron stand before mentioeed. 



In preserving time the shining louind-bottomed . kettles, of^' ■ 
hammered brass or co]>per, were iM'oughPoitt and hung over 
the flames, while the same long handled iron/ spoon was used 
for stirring the contemns. When, however, it came to boiling 
apple-butter, there was commonly a stone fire-place built out- 
side, with two heavy forked sticks on. either side of "it,, on 
which rested a pole of green wood, or sometimes an iron rod, 
from which tlie huge iron cauldron was hung. The cider and 
apples had to l)e' kept stirring all the time, until the apple- 
butter was done.' This was accomplished by having a wooden, 
pole, w'ith a wide paddle fastened to it a foot or two from the 
one end, resting on the sides of. the cauldron, with the pad- 
dle inside of it. This was kept moving or stirring .in the 
contents.by the person holding the long end of the pole and r 
steadily rotating it with the hands, with the same motion that 
was used in roasting cofifee with the coffee roaster then in use. 

The latter, however, was done over the flames in the fire- 
place. The roaster consisted of a cylinder of sheet-iron about 
a foot long and eight inches in diameter. An iron rod passed 
through the cylinder lengthwise and was fastened to it, while, 
at the Other end it was fastened into a wooden handle. The 
coffee-beans were put into the roaster through a sliding do.r 
at the side of the cylinder. Then the iron rod was' rested on 
a hook at the end of .a chain .suspended from the crane so that 



Utensils and Cookery of Our Grandmothers 227 

the cylinder was just over the fire. By holding the handle 
and constantly rotating it, the coffee -was. kept from burning. 
Mr. George Krause presented me with the last coffee roaster 
of the kind he had in stock, and told me then that it was 
fhirty-five years since he had sold the last one. By perforat- 
ing the cylinder I have converted mine into a very effective 
corn-popper. / 

After coffe was roasted it was ground as needed in a little 
coffee-mill, which one held on one’s lap while turning the 
crank which ground the coffee, which fell into a little drawer 
at the bottom The “coffee” that was largely used by our 
ancestors among the Pennsylvania Grmans, however, was not 
coffee at all, but dried and rpasted chickory root, perhaps 
mixed with rye or wheat and a little “essence” ; the same that 
was almost universally used, during the Civil War. Chocolate 
and cocoa were a rare luxury; and various decoctions of 
leaves and roots -of native herbs were used as “tea.” There 
was however plenty of good fresh milk to drink in those days 
when the milk-devouring creamery was as yet^uhknown. 

In The country, .where one or. more cows were kept, butter 
making was a regidar weekly or semi- weekly work. The 
pfimitive chum consisted of a high wooden tublike receptacle 
for the milk, in which a flattened wooden “stomper” was 
moved up and down, beating and splashing it utnil the butter 
formed. Later, however, this gave 'place to the keglike churn, 
inside of which the wooden. splasher was revolved by a crank 
turned by hand, much to the weariness of the flesh of the 
child on whom the duty of doing this often fell.. When the 
butter was thick enough, it was taken^out and kneaded in a 
wooden dish until all the milk had been worked out of it, when 
it was salted and put away in firkins, or moulded into rolls 
for immediate use. The utensils used, the churn, firkins and 
wooden dish, were scrubbed immaculately clean, and kept in 
the “outhouse.” or shed, back of the kitchen. • 

Baking was also done once or twice a week, on regular 
“bake days.” Often the large bake oven was built as an ex- 
tension to the rear of the fire-place, with the oven door Of>en- 
ing into the latter. The floor of it was of brick, or tiles, on 
which the fire was built of sticks of wood about a yard long 



228 Lebanon Historical Society 




KITCHEN UTEhJSILS AND CANDLE MOLDS 



Utensils and Cookery of Our Grandmothers 229 



. After the tiles and interior of the oven were hot enough, the 
loaves of bread dough, and the dozens of pies, were placed on" 
the hot tiles- of the hearth by means- of a wooden flg,t_shavel 
with a long handle, all the hot embers and ashes having first 
been removed with a long iron scraper. The bread dough had 
been made in a large wooden trough, about two and a half, 
or three feet long, and a foot or eighteen inches wide; and 
from there put into round bread baaskets, or wooden dishes, 
each the size of a loaf, the evening before “bake day.” They 
were usually set to rise in these over night. The trough, 
bread baskets, shovel and scraper, were likewise kept in the 
“out kitchen” between bake days ; while the earthenware pie 
plates, or shallow dishes on which the pies were baked, were 
kept in the kitchen closet, with the other earthenware, milk 
crocks, vinegar jugs, etc., as also the tin coflfe pots, and the 
decorated tea pot, and other crockery, not to forget the tin 
candle moulds, and brass or tin candlesticks and fat lamps, 
and the perforated tin lantern. Probably several leather fire 
buckets were also kept hanging there. 



However experts in the baking of bread and pies, our grand- 
mothers were, quite as “handy” in the matter of baking cakes. 
This might be shown in many ways, and by many cake com- 
pounds that by word of mouth have come down to our day. 
VVe give here the recipe for an old-time cake for the very 
peculiar name by which the cake was known, namely, 
‘•^Schnittels,” or by some, “Buwa-Shenkel.” This kind of a 
cake was used at the Moravian Seminary, Bethlehem, Pa., as 
many years ago as any one can remember. It was made of a 
rich pie dough, rolled as for pie crust, cut into squares, spread 
wifh butter, brown sugar and cinnamon, then folded over to 
form a triangle, and the edges pressed firmly together, then 
baked a golden brown. 



An old-time ditty that used to go the rounds was this: 

“VVer will gute Kuche bache 
Der muss hawve sieve Sache : 

Butter un’ Schmalz, 

Zucher un’ Salz, 

Milch un’ Mehl, 

, Un’ SaflFrich raac.ht 
Die Kuche gehl.” 



230 Lebanon County Hi^^rical Society 

These- were the essentials of the old-time “Leb-kuche.” 
“Leb” is a contraction of Lieb, love, therefore Love-cake. 
This cake was about two inche^s' in thickness^ spread out on 
’'tm'platters for the bake-oven and when baked came out light 
in weight, with a glossy surface on- top and a pronounced 
saffron color inside. The “Leb-kuche” was^n its day a most 
popular cake, especially at Fairs and other public gatherings, 
and whilst yet fresh was so delicious! Some of oqr older 
people may yet remember “Mother" Graeff and her little 
candy store on Cumberland Street, west of Ninth. , She al- 
ways carried a stock of Leb-kuche with her candies. 



In the “out kitchen” could also be seen the sour-kraut cut- 
ter, for cutting the cabbage, and the “stenner,” or “kivvel” 
as the Pennsylvania-German called the high, narrow wooden 
-tub into which the cut cabbage was tightly packed with a 
heavy “stomper,” and salted, and then put away and weight- 
ed down with a big stone, until thoroughly ripened and fit for 
use. Similarly the meat' axe and butcher knives^-iTot-^ men- 
tion the bristle scraper, sausage-meat cutting block, and later 
the sausage filler, or press with a tin- spout, and other utensils 
used on the annual hog butchering days, were stored away. 




.Table furniture consisted of chijia' plates, sometimes decor- 
ated, oftener plain, a decorated china sugar bowl, a similar 
gravy bowl, platters, tureens, and steel knives and forks. As 
it was not good form to eat with the fork, this instrument 
had only two tines, with* a wooden '-or_^ horn handle. The 
knives, being used for conveying the food to the mouth as 
well as for cutting it, had wide steel blades, which were some- 
times curved and broad at the ends the better to carry their 
load. The pewter spoons w^ere very much like our silver 
spoons of the present day ; though I have a hand-made one 
of an earlier age, which has a round bowl and a straight, per- 
fectly plain, rather long handle. 

From whal has been said it will .be seen that the kitchen 
^TensUs of our ancestors- were quite as numerous as thcfse 
bf the present, and yet they covered only the necessities of 
cooking, while our’s minister more to the conveniences and 
luxuriesr Whether we, with all our improved facilities, have 






Utensils AND Cookery OF Our Grandmothers 231 

improved on the actual quality of our cooking or not, is per- 
haps an open questionr. Probably our gran'dmothers would 
thrive on and enjoy the productions of the modern cuisine as 
I little as we could enjoy those of their labors in the primitive 
|though effiqient kitchen of a few generations ago. 







^ A 







;:T' ’ 

f“^'T 



'T .*. 






..t -V 



- ' _ 



8«3HT&^a ;p xhMOCfl} MHA r^e 



jn&hWV^'^ io[^^a»tft,!0t/,,, . ^ Hg}t fth 

• >y'?«in<-i<j: jrfKni jtc4jf.nT^r'K' K‘**di ^ifa.w 1. .‘.v:» ^-«, 




•-hn'' ‘ ■ 



£ fu 



< 




- "•- • (»‘.t' . . - 

'“.I. "I>l‘;r > ■ ., ,'»•!♦’ 

■ •'■ ' t ll^ * ■ ,' . I t'i, ^ * 

.' .< '■' '>^•^r mp*" .. r* I K •«'■ ■ 

■ ' f-"’0vv,'' {kfAA "itvr 

'1 r|'>. . . .|- 

• '■ • '• V- »1.,‘ ;.♦ 4 Mr< . 



' '• ; < ■ !i vf- >, ,.>\ii I , •, _ t 

■’(-'■ ' ;*■.: ■ ' " . 

''■■ .. > ViH''-'x 



>.v '•»» *■ 

V" ** I . V “'-V^ < ■^ ' . •> -j, ,;,, l\ Itrf 

r'-: , H.), . ,, 

'' .t ,.HJit f . \">"*!- I . »*, 



1 . n f- 

I -i't ' 




''' -'V " tfutt itm lilliiiiMi 

<?.' .'< : %« 

••' ' .‘‘j ''.v 

<i> i 

■n»ff ' ■'-* , 

-X 

.. , '}U^ , <■■ 'i' si- , 
















232 Lebanon County Historical Society 






Lard Dips, Qa' ^ Sticks and Lamps 
or the Light of Other Days 




liY All>S rviAkY L. RoEDEL 



The origin of -artilkial lighting js shrouded in the same 



ness within a certtki radius. . It requires no stretch of the 
imagination to believe that the next time a belated hunter 
was heard returning some one snatched a brand from 



tne fire to see if he could carry the light farther inti) tlv.‘ 
forest. This being-proved the torch was an estaldished fact. 



Where the olive tree flourished oil .^yas |)n)hal)ly useii be- 
fore tallow, but the di]) or deep saucer with a dent or small 
lip; for a wick, fonneil the first ad\*ance. .Some of these 
held but a tablespoon full of oil and shed a feeble. Mu.ikiug 



oil and soon had more elaborate lamps. 'I'he genera! sh:ii>e 
was that, of an egg shell cut in half Jengihwi.<e. a handle at 
the large end, and a lip at the small ore. .More clabonue 
lamps were covered, and had a hole in the center for firing 
a -.d at the end for the wick. 

f Th^ mounds of .Asia Minor and tombs of lygypt reveal 
:he fact that both lamps and candles were in us- before tiie 
davs of Abraham. 



niystery which sur ;hje origin of fire. • With the first 

evening fire came the knowledge that it illumined the dark- 




What length of time passed Ijetween* the discover^' 4of the 
torch and tha-t of a lamp-or candle we <lo not know. A\’hetii- 
er the oil lamp or the taltow di]) was first used de])ends upon 
the nation first attaining that stage of civilization. 



light. Sheep:s tallow.atTd lard were u.sed in Egypt ;ind Asia 
Minor by the common people- The wealthier class used olive 






233 






The Light of Other Days 



The candles of these eastern p€oj^!e*^ere low and placed 
in the same kind of a vesscl-as held the oil. Candlesticks not 
nec essa rily imply our idea’^of^a cai^le^s-is evident by the 
ijfoldcn candlestick on the alter of the t||^rnacle and the 
kini]) winch luni" before tlie Holy of Jiolies |ltho Ixjth used oil 
troni the same \essel. Tlic differeTice seems to have been 
ihai a lanV|) luni!^ -from the ceiling or a bracket in the wall> 
will e a candle stood upon a stand or stick. 

The first lamps' were made of clay and sun dried. Finer 
ones were baked, having first l)een elaborately carved with 
tracings of flowers or fruits or symbols of the gods. The 
lamps of each heathen temple were decorated with emblems 
of that temple. Often die figures were traced in colors be- 
fore being . fired. Lamps were ^hd bronze, 

silver and sometimes gold; Candle'^fnp's and their stands^ 
were often made of the same material, or the stands were 
of wooc^ more or less elaborately curved as became the sta- 
tion anct pursF^dfs the possessor. In Egypt candlesticks as 
tall as aS piano lamp are spoken of. .made of metal or wo»)d 
with many branches; whether oil or candles were used in 
them is not known. 

. In colder climes we fitid the. candle a^ _we know it. China 
claims its iiH'ention. also its use in paper lanterns 5Ctoo years 
befor the time of Christ. Candles of tallow took the jdacc 
of prepared wood in England in the year 125 ^ .Although 
l^ps and candles came into use so early, they did mu^ban- 
ish' the. torch- It was found early in its use that a torch <li].- 
ped in pitch, shed a brighter li”ht and burned longer than 
plain wood. 

All nations of whatever time .ami climi*. have u.'^ed the uiglu 
for banqueting.- The torch has shed its radiance and its .soot 
alike over monarch and slave. Umne in her glory used the 
torch when much li.ght was wanted as di<l England and 
France to the beginning of the eighteenth century. 



The first lights in our own country were the ])fne knots, 
which could be had for# the cutting. They burned clear atid 
bright but unless protected «Irop|'c<l pitch from the end. Many 
a pastor yi co’o’ ial days wrote all .«>f his sermons by, the 
light of the blazing torch or the huge woo 1 fire Long after 



234 Lebanon Cou^f?T^'4ijSTCTRiG:^ 



I 



candles came into use, the torch was used as a carriage Hghl. 
Sunetimes outriders ro rI^ J^efofe~the. cbarfr~~with torches , to 
light the way and prevent: the horses _f ailing -into the Hits, 
A torch bearer went before the sedan-chair at night. Torches 
wese fastened to a bracket 'or^Ag in the outer wall of inns, 
boats carried iron casket* filled with blazing torches 



and 



when obliged to move a^ nightl 



Mr. Higginson wrote in it)30, though New England has 
no tallow to make candles of, yet by abundance of fish it can 
afford.^ oil for lamps. Hut little was used for that purpose, 
perhaps for lack of lamps or because of the unpleasant odor. 
As cattle increased every ounce of tallow was saved for 
candles. Wlien Gov. Winthrop arrived in Massachusetts he 
promptly wrote to his wife to bring candles with her from 
England. In 1636 he .seg^j^^a. large quantity of wicks and 
tallow Candles cost foti'rl^ence ajiiece which made them cost- 
ly. Later the silk down of the milk weefl was woven into 
coarse wickC When the^ were- dipped in saltpeter they.biim- 
^d-^with a brighter light - Thomas Tnssar wrote in EnglamL 
in the sixteenth century, in his "Directions to Housewives”; 



Wife make thine own candle 
Save penny to handle 

Provide., fdr-rtliy tallow ,cre fmst comeih in 
And make thine own camLe ere winter begin. 








TteJ&lGH'TOF OTHER DAYS 






One of ' the autumn tasks was the making of 'I 



stock of candles.^ "Con 
true in our own cpunty 3 



^'1 



[tions in otHer sections :were . ^ 

The good wife saved and carelimy 



tried out, deer s«t^mo^e fat 'and .bear’s grease for caiK^es. • ' 



Every particle of grease from pot liquor or fat from meat - 
was used for candle making. This was a hard task as kettles 
were heavy. Two kettles were hung over the fire and partly 
tiTed with tallow. Two long poles ^were laid from chair to 
chair. /\cross these poles the candle rods were placed, ea^ 
liaving 6 or 8 wicks hung over it. Small weights were placed , 
at the bottom of each wick to keep it straight when, dipped 
into the tallow. Boards were plated beneath the r»ds and 



papers placed . preH t the grease spoHing^ the . 

snowy floor, . - ■ / -rt' ^ - 



Each rod wajl- dipped in- turn and returned to its pl^e 



across the' poles' to cool and harden before bein^ dTpped 
again. This process must be continued until, the candles* were 
the required size. If cooled too quickly the candles- cracked- 
v\s the tallow cooled the kettle was replaced over the to 
inelt ancLjthe other kettle taken off- A good maker dipped 
slowly/ bur if the roonrwas fairly cool, could make 200_ can- 
dles in a day. When moulds were used the, work was not so 
hard. A mould held from 2 to 2 dozen candles. These were 
filled and allowed to stand until cold when the candles were 
removed and the moulds filled again. In some sections a can- 
dlemaker went from house to house making candles. He car- 
ried all his tools' with him and remained at each home until, 
their supply of candles was made. 



During the Civff War many ladies ^were sent north and 
rnade candles to serve until their return. One lady made wax 
candles 30 feet long, winding them -about bottles as the Rus- 
sians do, and drawing the end through a band around- the 
neck of the bottle. The candle was drawn up each evening 
until all of it had been used. Wax candles were often made 
by Tiand by pressing the heated wax around the wick. Alb 
candles, whatever the material were carefully used to' the last 
bit by a little frame of pins and rings called a save all or by 
a slide the candlestick that could be raised as the candle 
burned down. Farmers kept, bees as much for the wax as, for 





236 Lebanon CouNi?''0jSTORitA'r Society 



the honey. .. \ natural and apparently inexhausUMe material, 
was found in all. the - hT the ^^Baylwriy : * bu^ 

from tlic berries .of which excellent candles Were oiad& 
Later - si-jcrm candles came into user jThey' are compM^ 
of tallow, wax anti spenfi, arc|| about six inches long 
and thicker than the old taliow caidles. “Although shorter 
they burn brighter and just tferfoitglLs the bid tallow candles, 
and require no .snuffing, which process of cutting off the 
charred end of the cotton wick quite frequently was a nuis- 
ance. An improvement in the material of the wick has quite 
as much to do with the absence of .snutfing, I imagine, as the 
change of material in the candle. .\ .snuffers and tray always 
accompanied the candle.stick unless as often happened, the 
candlestick was in the center «>f a tray whei; only the snuffers 
was necessary. .Another way of snuffing the burning wick, 
much in vogiie in the abscnce^i^Smiff^rs, was toAhoisteh with 
the tongue the ti])s of the thumb a d the first finger arid then 
tO]) off the burnt wick. Thi<-required some expertness in or- 




j The can^lle moulds were made of tin or pewter, and many 
candLstick.s were of pewter. As the cheaper grades of pewter 
containeil a large amoun, of lead, our patriotic ^cestors melt- 
ed all they couH spare to make- bullets during the Revolution- 
ary War. This accounts for so . few pewter articles being 
-found today. Brass and silver candlesticks were used as well 
as those of pressed cut glass. ThereWs something about 
the candlestick at once homelike and decorative, which appeals 
not only to the collector of antiques but to the woman who 
does not know pewter from nickle nor old brass’ from clever 
present day counterfeits. For purely decorative purposes the 
copies are quite as good as th^ driginals and better suited to 
the purses of most of us. If ^e accept copies of old furni- 
ture why not of old candlesticks if the pattern and workman- 
ship are good. The modern solid silver, if a good make and 
weight are selected, will serve to pass on to posterity equally 
as well as those of by gone centuries. Silver plate candle- 
sticks are made in the same patterns as the solid ones, an.l 
every one knows the wearing qualities of good plate. 



Sheffield ware is unique and belongs to a period of its own. 




The Light of Other Days . 




There is no new >5htffie“kr ware,' it is' a lost' art. If you hap- 
pen to possess a piece p^Sheffield silver, preserve it tendd'ly; 
do not liave it repla^e4Lf|r that^destroys its value. Old glass 
candlesticks are rare, and rarer still are those- with glass pend- 
ants, perhaps because of the attraction these sparkling, jing- 
ling lustres had for the children. Occasionally in the old days 
lirass and silver candlesticks with glass pendants were seen. 
I'hese were usually in candlelabra sets, the center one hold- 
ing 3 camlles the others one, or in pairs holding i, 2, 3 or 5 
candles each- Caiulle.sticks of bronze or china were found in 
many odd desij;n.s and can sometimes be found in oldJiomes 
today — The chatfdoB^ nvas "a' or ..brass hoop ' with 

caudles fastent^l fa-tt. or sometiihes two pieces of metal placed 
at ri^ht angles having one or two candles on each arm. Can- 
dlesticks were often made, of wood to match the bedrocMn set 
^and used in pairs on my lady’s dressing table. * ' ^ 

Much of the family life centered about the candle. ' In 
summer God made the days long for the ripening and har- 
vesting»^pf_the crdi)s. In winter the*housewife and Tier help; 
ers needed them just tts long to spin the flax and 'wool and 
weave it into cloth for her household so the days must be 
lengthened by the candle. The stockings could I>e* knit by 
the light of the huge wood hre, but for finer work the candle 
must be used. Many of the bead b^s and much of the fine 
lace and needlework - handed down ,to us from our grand- 
mothers and great grandmothers was done by the light of 
the precious candle;^ 




Although there .Was plenty of whale and fish oil to bum. _ y 
lamps were not used in America for many years.- Betty-lamps 
were among the earliest and may- still be found in use in 
country homes. I well remember a Betty lamp suspended 
above the stove in the kitchen of one of our well to do farm- 
ers. It was filled with tallow or ’ard. (They called it a lar<l 
lanfp or dip) the wick was placed in the nose. Among the. 
very poor the lard dip was a saucer or perhaps a small gourd, 
anything that would hold a spoonful of lard and a rag for a . 
wick. The light was as poor as the' vessel that held it. 

Pewter .was a favorite material for lamps, especially for 
those of whale oil. which was used as early as 1712. 




23S 



Historical Socihty 




The Light of Other Days 239 . 

'riK-\ were at 4nrt>t, smoky and ill smell- 

ing aii(i candles were used at all eleijant entertainments, even 
it’ ihe\‘ (lid drij) from cMiandelier ami sconce~and ruin the 
71fp?5es ~an(l coirrs'TTT 'die !ielle> and beaus. The lard lamps 
U"ed at tile close of flic eiLjlitcenth century may have been 
ci>]>ied alter tin# eurlieS w lialo oil .lamps and were quite dis- 
til cl from the lard (dl lamps used a half century later The 
one in the illustration with >nulfer.s and oil can beside it was 
made in .Schaelferstown in 

.\lan\ oi the old pewter and i^lass lamiis had two wicks, 

1 he linll" e\e lamp had two wicks ami a buds eye of clear 
”1;^" oil either siiL- the wick» and ,i;ave a brilliant light for 
the centnrx of its use. Then came the lard oil lamps. These 
were uMiallv of "lass and glass chimnevs were used on them, 
rile lard was- iiicluMj^ ai^l poured into the lamp, the burner 
sciewed on and the lamp ligliie 1 ’! he heat from the light 

kept the lard in a l'(|uid slate. W hen lamps came into gen- 
oral use again- jo or years ago. many of these lard oil 
lamps were fitted w ith new burners ad used and the old glass 
lani])s in use toda\ are the original lard oil lamps. Last winter 
at the sale of the late Augustus l-'orry a lard oil lamp .sold for 
$ 100 . 00 . ■ . • , 

The Huid lamp, in which a, mixture of camphene (oil of 
terpentine; and alcohol was burned, was used for a. short per- 
iod. riiese lamps had a nr^tal or glass cap to cover the wick.s 
when not in use and prevent evaporation. Some of them were 
fil'.ed with cotton to prevent spilling the inflammable fluid 
should they be tipped by a careless hand. The first coal oil 
was used in these same lamps and kept the name of fluid. 

Few s])ecimers-of the economy lamp remain but it deserves 
mention. During the si.x working days of the week it seemed 
an ordinary brass candlestick, but u]X)ii Sabbath the candle 
and its socket were re'oioved. this reve.ded a larger socket in 
which a bow l containing oil was ]) need- T he finer light was 
used only on Sunday and marked the difference between that 

(lav and the remainder (^f the week. 

# * 

Another light has come down to us from colonial davs which 
like the first lights, w'as sometimes a cand’e a?:d sometimes .a 



. '240 Lebanon County Historical Society 





lamp. I mean the old lantern. In the childhood days of our 
. parents- and grandparents and farther down the line, the lan- 
tern held asociations as dear as the old.oaken bucket, although 
I do not find it celebrated in poetry. At early candle light 
the lantern was lighted and placed near the large fire place. 
From there it was taken by the farmer as he went about his 
chores night and morning. Its welcome light greeted the 
traveler who arrived after dark. It lighted the way to the 
cellar for the toothsome apple to be set before the fire or hung 
by a string from the mantle board until the skins began to 
crack and show the juicy puflfiness, within, when they were 
taken by each in turn and eaten with a relish. There was 
often great rivalry to see whose apple would be the first to 
crack. Equally dear was the trip to the shed loft for nuts to 
be cracked by the light of the blazing fire. The first lanterns 
j had horn sides and served only to make darkness visible. 
Everyone who went out after dark carried a lantern and as 
the young people started home from quilting parties, husking 
bees, apple parings or frolics, the dancing lights were a merrv 
sight. When a number of ])inched or punched tin lanterns 
were carried, the lights from the many ])unctures resembled 
a lot of fire flies on a .summer evening. Happy was the girl 
who received a'gift of a pincheil lantern in a new or odd de- 
sign. Candles were always burned in these- 



The old town watchnian aiul his lantern have passeil awnv. 
^it those who knew him always .speak of him with a smile- The 
watcher at night looked for the light of bis lantern on tlie 
ceiling and listenerl to hear how the hours were ])assing and 
the state, of the weather. If he called the hour and “ail is 
well,” they knew the night was clear. "I’ast four o’clock ami 
a cloudy morning.” told its own tale as did five o’clock, and a 
sissling and ki.ssling. which meant .sleet. Tjie watchman wa<5 
the town a’arm o’clock. Those wishing to take the stage aske;l 
him to call them and with his call of three o’clock came his 
ponderous knock upon the door. When there were no men in 
the family, he often returned with his lantern to take the la<lies 
to .the stage, wtiich in Lebanon left for Reading at 4 a m. 



The intrcKluction of gas came in 1848. Pennsvlx-ania wa.s 
slow to introduce gas. There is something amusing i»i the 






9 



TKin u.t » Jt ‘ VA.***:* 



A 



241 



The Light of Other Days 



story of the tkjlit against tlte introduction of gas, -when it was 
^r-f.rst tried. There were serious person.s who actually were 
fearful tliat the poisonous vapor would in some unaccountable 

inanner, which, of course, they could not describe, destroy the 

poj|ulation .vd perha]>s cause explosions <.;f the most awful 
character. 'I hc original gas light was the open flame burner, 
' hut in time a hew thoujght was taken uj>, that of making "in- 
candescent mantle lamps. These are consiclered the best gas 
lamps today. The electric light is already trying to displace 
the gas lain]). Xow although gas and electricity have come 
into general use, the old lamps and candles linger as did the 
torch in its time. Candles are used on all festive occasions and 
1 doubt if any one will ever cling to gas or electric light with' 
the love we all have for the old candle and its stick 









Hfckmak, 



' B I N D K R V. INC. 
Bound-lb-PleMe* 

FEB 03 

N. MANCHESTER. INOTANA A6962 




