
This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 



at |http : //books . google . com/ 



NVPL HESEAflCH UBflAH*ES 



III 



,'|l I 



3 3433 08159688 8 



AUSTIN'S 

DOMESTIC 
SCIENCE 

BOOK TWO 




'vZjS^S^^^S^ 



f 



T-YOMS ^-r* CAENAI^AN 














jtizedh^ Google 



'\ 



c- 



Digitized bfCjDOQl^ 



Digitized by 



Google 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

BOOK TWO 



BY 



BERTHA J. AUSTIN 

DIRECTOR OF DOMESTIC ARTS, ANDREWS INSTITUTE FOR GIRLS 
WILLOUGHBY, OHIO 



MATERIAL COLLECTED BY A COMMITTEE OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

TEACHERS COOPERATING FROM DIFFERENT 

SECTIONS OF THE COUNTRY 



LYONS & CARNAHAN 
CHICAGO NEW YORK 



Digitized by CjOOQIC 



COPYRIGHT, 1914 
LYONS & CARNAHAN 



Digitized by 



Google 



PREFACE 

This book is the second in a series of three books designed 
to furnish a complete course of instruction in Domestic Science. 
While it is desirable that the work of Book One shall be done 
before that of Book Two, it is not necessary, for the work of the 
latter, although in advance of that given in Book One, may be 
very profitably taken up independently. The glossary, the 
review of technical terms, table of measurements, table service 
and etiquette given in Book One, together with the preparation 
of many dishes involving the same or similar principles and 
operations to those prepared in the first book, make possible 
and profitable the study of this book as an independent 
unit. 

In Book Two, as in the previous book of the series, the lessons 
are carefully worked out in detail, the instructions clear and 
simple, the manner of presentation pedagogical, the steps in 
every process being given in the order of operation and the 
imderlying principles clearly set forth, so that any grade teacher 
may by its use teach Domestic Science as easily and accurately 
as she teaches any other branch in the curriculum. Another 
strong feature of the book is the character of the subject-matter, 
which is practical and economical, nothing being asked of the 
student which is not suggested by the needs of the ordinary 
household and nothing necessitating an extravagant expenditure 
in order to do the required work. 

The reading lessons, which are interspersed at intervals 
throughout the book, present interesting and valuable infor- 
mation on the various foods in a pissing manner. 

The character of the illustrations is obvious at a glance. 
They make graphic utensil, process, or finished product, which- 
ever the clear presentation of the given lesson seems to demand. 

3 



Digitized by 



Google 



4 PREFACE 

In short, in this book is offered to the public schools of the 
country the second member of a series of books which shall make 
possible the teaching of Domestic Science in the grades and 
common schools with the maximum of results and the minimum 
of expenditure. 



<5^ 
^ 



^O^K P«^^ 



I' 







Digitized by 



Google 



CONTENTS 

LESSON PAGE 

I Fruits (Reading) 9 

II Fresh Fruits 13 

III Grape Cornstarch Mold 20 

IV Baked Bananas 24 

V Stewed Apples 25 

VI Apple Sauce 28 

VII Stewed Prunes 29 

VIII Potato in the Half-Shell 31 

IX Baked Beans 33 

X Bacteria (Reading) 38 

XI Corn a la Southern 42 

XII Cocoa and Chocolate 43 

XIII Milk (Reading) ^ 46 

XIV Custard Souffle 48 

XV Bacteria in Milk (Reading) 61 

XVI Pasteurized Milk 65 

XVII Cottage Cheese 67 

XVIII Rennet Custards 60 

XIX The Dairy Industry (Reading) 62 

XX Cream Puffs 66 

XXI Serving Butter 67 

XXII Oleomargarine (Reading) 69 

XXIII Welsh Rarebit 73 

XXIV Cheese Fondue . 76 

XXV Curried Eggs 78 

XXVI Lemon Pie 80 

XXVII Mince Pie 84 

XXVIII Walnut Cake 87 

XXIX Spanish Cake with Caramel Frosting 89 

XXX Chocolate Frxht Cake 91 

XXXI Cambridge Gingerbread 95 

XXXII Lady Fingers 96 

XXXIII Jelly Roll 98 

XXXIV Peanut Cookies 101 

XXXV Boston Cookies 103 

XXXVI Sugar Cookies 104 

5 



Digitized by 



Google 



6 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

LE88027 PAGE 

XXXVII GiNGBRSNAPS 106 

XXXVIII White Fondant 109 

XXXIX Broiled Beefsteak WITH Maitre d'Hotel Butter . .113 

XL Hamburg Steak 118 

XLI Roast Beep > 123 

XLII Meat Pie 129 

XLIII Boiled Leg op Mutton 132 

XLIV Lamb Stew 136 

XLV Pan-Broiled Chops 139 

XLVI Rolled Flank or Round of Beef 142 

XLVII Veal Cutlets 145 

XLVIII Broiled Ham 148 

XLIX Liver and Bacon 152 

L Our Meat Supply (Reading) 158 

LI Brown Soup Stock 165 

LII Tomato Soup with Stock 170 

LIII Noodle Soup 173 

LIV Lemon Jelly 176 

LV Snow Pudding 179 

LVI Perfection Salad 181 

LVII Gelatin (Reading) 182 

LVIII Bread and Butter Apple Pudding 185 

LIX Chocolate Bread Pudding 186 

LX Indian Pudding 188 

LXI Cottage Pudding 189 

LXII Apple Dumplings 192 

LXIII Water Bread (Quick Process) 195 

LXrV Milk and Water Bread (Quick Process) 202 

LXV Milk and Water Bread (Slow Process) 205 

LXVI Rolls and Biscuit 208 

LXVII Entire Wheat Bread 211 

LXVIII Graham Bread 213 

LXIX Yeast (Reading) 216 

Table Service 218 

Suggestions for Camp Cookery 225 

Measuring 237 

Glossary 239 

Index 247 



Digitized by 



Google 



hour of all hours, the most blessed upon earth, 
Blessed hour of our dinners! 

We may live without poetry, music, and art, 

We mxiy live without conscience, and live without heart; 

We m>ay live without friends] we may live without books; 

But civilized man cannot live without cooks. 

He m>ay live without books — what is knowledge but grieving? 

He may live without hope — what is hope but deceiving? 

He may live without love — what is passion but pining? 

But where is the mmi that can live without dining? 

— Owen Meredith. 



Digitized by 



Google 




Digitized by CjOOQIC 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

BOOK TWO 



STUDY OF FRUITS 
Lesson I 

Fruits (Reading) 

Fruits are the most delicious of foods; they are also the 
most decorative. Poets have praised them; artists have painted 
them. They rank with flowers in romantic attraction and with 
the homelier foods in nutritive value. Translucent grapes, 
oranges, nectarines, and apples are often used as table decora- 
tions in place of flowers. So delicate and sweet are the flavors 
of many fruits that they can be likened only to the fragrance 
of flowers. The two grow intermingled in warm climates and 
poets and painters alike have joined them in the creation of 
their fancy. 

The grape has been sung more than any other fruit because 
of its use in wines and the appeal in this form to the wild poetic 
spirits of the earlier verse-writers. It is to the "fruit of the 
vine" that Omar Khayyam sings praises in his Persian poem, 
The RvbayiaL But the grape itself has actual beauty of form 
and color and texture, its skin being as bloomy as that of the 
peach — sometimes a soft purple overlaid with a fine frost of 
bloom. There are fruits, like the wild crabapple, that attract 
the eye and repel the palate; but the grape both pleases the 
eye and gratifies the palate, vying in delicacy of flavor and 
lusciousness with the peach, the orange, the apricot, the plum, 

9 



Digitized by 



Google 



10 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

and the strawberry. By many it is placed at the very head 
of ail fruits. 

As an industry, fruit-raising in America has developed 
marvelously during the past two or three decades. This is 
chiefly because of the irrigation of the semi-desert lands in the 
west and southwest. These soils seem to be perfectly adapted 
to fruit-raising and the climate is suited to many fruits, so that 
when water was secured and applied to the land by irrigation 
processes, the result was that the desert literally bloomed and 
produced rich harvests of fruit. 

Experiment has also proved it possible to raise certain of 
the hardier fruits in the southern states where it was formerly 
supposed they would not thrive. 

Of the more tropical fruits, it has been found necessary to 
import fewer and fewer, as olives and dates and figs are now 
grown in California, and some of the southern states are pro- 
ducing the tropical and semi-tropical fruits. 

The Biblical "Mount of Olives'* suggests the Holy Land as 
the ancient home of the olive, and it is still grown extensively 
throughout Smyrna, Syria, Greece, and other Mediterranean 
countries, where the fig tree is most at home. 
Definition: 

The fruit of a plant is really the seed together with the outer 
protective covering. Sometimes it is encased in a husk, some- 
times in a shell, and sometimes the seed is embedded in a 
thick pulp, as in the grape, peach, and apple. When we refer 
to fruit, we usually mean those fruits that are sweet and can be 
eaten uncooked, or can be cooked, sweetened, and served as 
dessert. 
Composition of fruits: 

Most fresh fruits contain large percentages of water and 
cellulose. They contain almost no protein, which is the tissue- 
building material, and not much starch after they have ripened. 
In ripe fruit the starch has almost all been turned into sugar 
and a sticky, gmnmy substance, called pectin, which causes 



Digitized by 



Google 



STUDY OF FRUITS 11 

fruit to jelly. Another important content of most fruits is an 
acid. This is less noticeable in ripe than in green fruits. 
Food value of fruit: 

Fruits are deficient in protein and in fat. Their chief 
service in food value, then, is their carbohydrates, or starch 
and sugar material. In green fruit, the carbohydrate is 
chiefly in the form of starch, but in the ripe fruit this is 
changed to sugar and pectin. Like vegetables, fruits supply 
bulk to the food because of their large amount of cellulose. 
They are less rich in mineral salts than vegetables, but supply 
fully as much water and more acid. Because of the large 
amount of water and the acids they contain, fruits are very 
cooling and refreshing to the system. That is probably why 
they are so popular during hot, summer weather, and with 
feverish invalids. 

The most wholesome of fruits seem to be those containing 
some acid in large amount, as the apple, with its malic acid, 
the grape, with its tartaric acid, and the orange with its citric 
acid. The acids are said to act as blood purifiers. Soft- 
pulped fruits, such as peaches, pears, and plums, are more 
wholesome when eaten alone than are more solid fruits, such as 
bananas, raisins, and figs. Many-seeded fruits may prove 
harmful if eaten alone in large quantities. Fruits have various 
effects upon digestion, these effects being most apparent in 
uncooked fruit. 
The chief uses of fruits in the diet may be summed up as follows : 

To furnish nourishment 

To act as blood purifiers 

To give a stimulus to appetite 

To serve as medicine 

To aid in digestion 

To give variety in food 
General rules about fruit: 

Only sound, ripe fruit should ever be eaten. Unripe fruit 
is indigestible because of the raw starch and astringent acids 



Digitized by 



Google 



12 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

it contains. On the other hand, over-ripe fruit, or fruit that is 
commencing to spoil, has an even worse effect because of the 
bacteria which have caused the fruit to spoil. Very often this 
under-ripe or over-ripe fruit can be made safe for eating by 
thorough cooking. 

As a rule, if fruit is to be eaten raw it should be eaten some 
time before a meal or between meals. In the case of berries 
containing many seeds, this rule does not hold; they should 
be eaten with some bulky food. Because of the large water 
content of fruit, it interferes with digestion if taken at the close 
of the meal. 

Sweet fruits are best combined with some starchy food, such 
as cereals; acid fruits may interfere with the digestion of the 
starch in cereals. Cream should not be served with acid 
fruits. 

Fruit is best for eating when freshly gathered; melons are 
an exception to this, being better when chilled before being 
served; in general, if fruit cannot be served soon after being 
gathered, it should be served cold, or, as we say, chilled. 

All fruits should be cleaned before being served. Although 
they may not appear unclean, since they have passed through 
several hands and have been exposed to the dirt in orchard, 
street, store, and delivery wagon, they must necessarily be 
far from clean. 

Berries should be rinsed quickly in cold water and drained 
at once. If allowed to soak, they become soft and their flavor 
is affected. All smaller fruits, such as plums, grapes, and 
apricots may be rinsed. The larger fruits may be scrubbed 
or wiped. 

In cutting, crushing or cooking fruits, only silver, earthen, 
granite, or enameled utensils should be used. 



Digitized by 



Google 



STUDY OF FRUITS 



13 



Lesson n 




Fresh Fruits 
Apples: 

The many varieties of apples which are so commonly culti- 
vated today have all come from the crab, or wild apple, which is 
a native of Britain, where it has been known for many years. 
Apples contain a large amount of cellulose, so they are a firm 
fruit; they contain malic acid, which gives them their tart, 
or sour, taste and makes them a laxative. 
Apples also contain a great deal of water 
and sugar, some mineral salts, and a 
large amount of pectin, which makes 
them especially desirable for jelly-mak- 
ing. Apples may be kept in a temper- 
ature nearly at the freezing point, being 
best when kept cold. They are kept 
best if wrapped separately in papers, as 
are oranges when shipped. In storing 
apples, all which are not perfectly sound 
should be taken from the pile, as one bad spot will quickly 
contaminate many sound apples. 
Serving apples uncooked: 

Apples may be polished by rubbing 
them with a dry cloth. They may be 
served at a meal, but are usually served 
between meals. When served at a meal 
they may be prettily arranged in a suit- 
able dish and garnished with apple leaves. 
Between meals they are often served to 
the individual on a small plate, a silver 
fruit knife being placed at the right of 
the polished apple on the plate. The 
should be pared and cut into small pieces to be 



Fig. 1 — 
Composition of Apple 




Fig. 2.— 
Polishing Apples 



apple 
eaten, 



Digitized by 



Google 



14 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 




Fig. 3.— 
Composition of Pear 



Pears: 

Like apples, pears are natives of England. They are less 
cellular and less acid than apples and better adapted for eating 
raw. They do not keep so well as apples. 
Serving pears uncooked: 

Pears may be polished and served the 
same as apples. 
Peaches: 

Peaches, which came originally from 
China, are now grown extensively in the 
southern states and in the more temperate 
northern states. Peaches contain less 
sugar than other common fruits, and, 
excepting the stone, they contain only 
about one or two per cent of solid matter. Their juicy, tender 
flesh is very desirable because of its pleasing flavor. 
Serving peaches uncooked: 

Cut very ripe peaches into halves and remove the skins and 
stones; place a layer of these halves in the can of an ice cream 
freezer and sprinkle it with sugar. Add more layers, sweeten, 
and so continue till the desired amount is prepared. Pack the 
can in chopped ice and salt and let it stand two or three hours, 
or until the peaches have become thor- 
oughly chilled, but not frozen. Remove 
them from the can, place the halves in 
the shape of a wreath on a large dish 
and sprinkle them with powdered sugar. 
Whip and sweaten cream and pile it ill 
the hollows of the halves. 
Serving: 

The chilled peaches should be used for 
dessert at luncheon or dinner. The dish 
should be placed in front of the hostess 
with a large silver spoon at her right and individual china or 
glass dishes at her left. 




Fig. 4.— 
Composition of Peach 



Digitized by 



Google 




STUDY OF FRUITS 15 

Citrous fruits: 

The orange grew in India long ages ago, but it was then 
quite different from the orange we now know, being merely 
a berry, and full of seeds. By careful 
cultivation it has been changed into the 
large, juicy, delicious fruit that is grown 
so abundantly in Florida and California, 
along the Mediterranean coast, and in 
many other regions. Other citrous fruits 
growing in the United States and in 
common use as food are the lemon and 

the grape fruit. Like the orange, they „ - 

are found in the tropics and in warmer Composition of Orange 
parts of the temperate zones. 

All the citrous fruits have large quantities of free citric acid 
in their composition; their water content is large, and their 
rind is rich in oil. The white portion underneath the colored 
rind is very cellular and tough and so is indigestible. 
Serving oranges uncooked: 

1. Wash the orange and cut it into halves, crosswise. Serve 
one-half to each person, the half being placed stem or blossom 
end down in the center of a small plate with an orange spoon 
on the plate at the right of the orange. This is a favorite way of 
serving oranges at breakfast. They should be served at the 
beginning of the meal. If sweet, it is better not to use sugar 
with them. Sugar hides the flavor of fruit and almost always 
gives an unnecessary addition of carbohydrate. 

2. Wash and peel an orange. With a thin-bladed, sharp 
knife cut down from the surface to the center on one side of the 
membrane enclosing a section of the pulp, then cut down close 
to the pulp on the other side of the membrane; a third time 
cut down to the center, close to the next membrane, and take 
6ut the section of pulp thus loosened in one piece. So proceed 
till all the pulp is removed and only the cellular membrane is 
left in one piece. Remove the seeds from the sections. Place 



Digitized by 



Google 



\ 



16 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

the pulp in a large dish and if desired, add sugar. The hostess 
may serve the fruit from a large dish, placing a portion in the 
individual dish for each guest. 

3. Wash the orange. Cut away all the peel but a band about 
an inch wide, which may be left around the center of the orange. 




5 



Fig. 6. — Oranges for Serving, (o) Peel rolled inward. (6) Sections spread 
on the band of peel, (c) Band of peel shown about the orange 

Cut the band at a place where two sections of the orange join. 
Cut the sections apart, leaving all attached to the band. This 
may be arranged around a mound of sugar. 

4. Wash the orange; score it in eighths from the stem 
nearly to the opposite end, and loosen the sections of peeling; 
loosen the sections of pulp from each other without removing 
them from the peel at the blossom end. The orange may be 
served in this way on a small plate, or the ends of the sections 
of peel may be rolled inward to form a border around the base 
of the fruit. 
Serving: 

Oranges so prepared should be placed on individual dessert 
plates and served to each guest or set at each place before the 
guests are seated, if served for breakfast. 
Grape fruit: 

Wash or wipe grape fruit and cut it into halves crosswise; 
with a thin-bladed, sharp knife or scissors cut the pulp from the 
rind the whole distance around; cut the pulp from the mem- 
brane separating the sections, and remove the membrane or 
tough portion in one piece. This may be loosened by cutting 



Digitized by 



Google 



STUDY OF FRUITS 



17 




Fig. 7. — Composition 
of Pineapple - 



it from the stem or blossom end with the scissors. Place a 
generous amount of sugar on the pulp left in the skin and set 
the whole half on or near the ice to cool. Serve on an individual 
plate with a spoon. 
Pineapple: 

The pineapple is a native of the tropical parts of America; 
it is ordinarily very coarse and full of fibrous membrane, and has 
little sweetness or flavor. Those which 
are very carefully guarded, especially 
those grown in hothouses, are very lus- 
cious and have a very delicate flavor. 
Pineapples contain a substance which 
aids in the digestion of protein, and 
pineapple juice is said to be useful in 
killing germs in the mouth and throat. 
Pineapple uncooked: 

1. Cut off the hard outer part of the 
pineapple and then remove the "eyes," 
or slice the pineapple first and then remove the rind and "eyes." 
Hold the whole apple firmly with one fork, with another fork 
shred the soft, juicy part, and with a knife cut off the shredded 
part. If desired, sugar may be added to the cut or shredded 
fruit, but the addition of sugar makes the fruit less valuable. 
The fruit may be placed in a large dish to be served by the 
hostess, or it may be served in individual dishes. It should 
always be served cold. 

2. Cut off the base of a large pineapple so that it will stand 
upright on a plate. Cut off the top and with a knife and strong 
spoon or scoop dig out the pulp of the apple and separate it 
from the hard center. Put the shell of the apple on the ice to 
become chilled. Peel and slice lengthwise some sweet orange. 
Mix the orange and pineapple together and sweeten to taste. 
Put them into a freezer and pack in salted ice for an hour or so. 
When ready to serve, turn the chilled mixture into the chilled 
shell of the pineapple. Garnish the base with the leaves of 



Digitized by 



Google 



18 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



the top of the pineapple. Bananas and lemon juice, straw- 
berries, or peaches may be used in place of the orange. 
Serving: 

Use this as a dessert for luncheon or dinner, and serve it with 
macaroons or plain cake. It should be served from the table 
by the hostess. 
Bananas: 

Bananas are natives of India, but are now raised extensively 
elsewhere. They require almost no attention and are said to 
yield more real food material to the acre than any 
other plant. They are, as has been said, rich in 
carbohydrate and they also contain fat and protein. 
In the ripe banana, as in all ripened fruits, the 
carbohydrates are in the form of sugar and gum; 
but the bananas that are bought in northern markets 
are picked while green and so, even though they 
are yellow when sold, they have not ripened as they 
should, and the carbohydrate is still part starch. 
For this reason, cooked banana is more wholesome 
than the raw food. 
Bananas uncooked: 

Bananas may be sliced and served with cream 
and sugar. If the slices are cut slanting, they will 
be larger. 
Melons: 

Since half or more of melons is waste matter and 
almost all the rest is water, and since the edible part 
contains no indigestible fiber, they are a very good addition 
to the summer diet. Melons are most wholesome when eaten 
right after being picked and chilled. 
Watermelons: 

1. Chill the melon after wiping it clean. Cut a slice ofif 
each end so that the halves may stand firmly on a plate or 
platter. Cut the melon in halves crosswise and stand each 
half on a dish garnished with green leaves. At the table the 




Fig. 8.— 
Compo- 
sition of 
Banana 



Digitized by 



Google 



STUDY OF FRUITS 



19 



hostess may scoop out the pulp with a tablespoon in egg-shaped 
pieces and serve them on chilled plates. However, the pulp 
may be scooped out beforehand and served from a dish or from 
half of the melon shell. 

2. Chill the cleaned melon. Cut a section three or four 
inches thick from the center of the melon; cut away the rind, 
leaving only the red pulp, which can be placed on an average- 
sized serving plate and cut as pie is when served. 

3. Cut the chilled melon into halves, crosswise. Cut ofif the 
ends so that the halves can rest firmly on a plate. Garnish 
the plate with green 
leaves. Cut wedge- 
shaped pieces from the 
melon, and serve with 
the rind attached. 
Serving: 

Some like sugar on 
watermelon and some 
like salt. Either or 
both may be passed at 
table, but not served 
with the individual por- 
tion. Watermelon is eaten with a fork or spoon. 
Muskmelon: 

1. Clean the melon; chill it, cut it into halves, and remove 
the seeds. Place one-half on a small plate with a spoon. Put 
crushed ice in the cavity. Pass sugar, cinnamon, or paprika 
and salt when serving. 

2. Wash and chill the melon; cut it into halves and remove 
the seeds. Mix sliced peaches, shredded pineapple, sliced 
orange, and sugar. Chill the fruit mixture and serve it in the 
chilled and halved melon, on a dessert plate with a spoon. 
Strawberries uncooked: 

1. Place the strawberries in a colander, pour cold water over 
them, drain them immediately, hull them and then turn into 




Fig. 9. — Strawberries Ready to Serve 



Digitized by 



Google 



20 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

a dish. Serve the strawberries with sugar and cream. All 
berries may be served in the same way. 

2. The French serve fine large strawberries unhulled. Need- 
less to say, these berries must be thoroughly washed. Pulver- 
ized sugar is passed, a spoonful of which each guest places on 
the dish at the side of the berries. 
Finger privileges at the table: 

There is a number of things that fastidious and well-bred 
persons now eat at the dinner table without the aid of knife, 
fork, or spoon. 

Strawberries served without being hulled are taken with 
the fingers. 

The berry is taken by the hull between the thumb and finger, 
dipped into the sugar, and eaten. 



Lesson m 
Grape Cornstarch Mold 



Materials used: 






Class Rule 




Home Rule 


4 tb grape juice 




1 c grape juice 


4 tb water 




1 c water 


2 tp sugar 




^ c sugar 


speck of salt 




ife tp salt 


2 tp cornstarch 




3 tb cornstarch 


a few drops of vanilla 




i tp vanilla 


4 tb cream 




1 c cream 


Utensils needed: 






Saucepan 


knife 


pastry bag 


2 bowls 


molds 


spoons 


Dover egg beater 






Work to be done: 






1. Mix the cornstarch. 


sugar, 


and salt together. 


2. Heat the grape juice in the 


J saucepan. 



Digitiz'ed by 



Google 



STUDY OF FRUITS 21 

3. Add the mixture of dry ingredients to the hot fruit juice, 
stirring the whole mixture until it is smooth and thick. 

4. Pour the thickened mixture into a wet mold. 

5. Set the mold aside to cool. 

6. When the mold has become cold, beat the cream till very 
stiff. Add sugar and beat again. 

7. Put the stiffly beaten cream into the pastry bag. (See 
Figure 11.) 

8. Take the cornstarch mixture from the mold and place 
it in a glass dish. 

9. With the pastry bag 
spread the cream over the 
mold in some artistic and 
attractive way. 
Serving: 

The molds in which the 
cornstarch pudding is cooled 
may be individual or not, as 
desired. This dish makes an 
attractive dessert for either 
luncheon or dinner. 
Principles: Fig. 10.— Mold 

Because of its nutritive 
value, cornstarch mold is and should rightly be a common 
dessert in most homes. Grape cornstarch mold is a very 
palatable and nutritious variation of the ordinary dish. 

Unfermented grape juice, such as was used in making the 
mold, is a very wholesome and nutritious beverage and should 
be in more general use than it now is. From it a great variety 
of desserts can be made at small expense. 

"Its uses are many. It is used in sickness, convalescence, 
and good health, as a preventive, restorative and cure; by the 
young, by persons in the prime of life, and by those in old age. 
It is used in churches for sacramental purposes, at soda foun- 
tains as a cool and refreshing drink; in homes, at hotels and at 




Digitized by 



Google 



22 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

restaurants as a food, as a beverage, as a dessert, and in many- 
other ways. It is food and drink, refreshment and nourishment, 
all in one." A great many experiments to determine its 
nutritive value and its effect upon the system have been made 
both in this country and abroad. Chemical analysis has shown 
it to contain less water, protein, fat, and ash, but more carbo- 
hydrates than does milk. These carbohydrates, which are in 
the form of sugar, make grape juice a heat- and energy-producing 
food. Furthermore, when taken in a mixed diet it relieves 
intestinal disorders and seems to cause a gain in weight. 
Nothing but good can be said for the use of unfermented grape 
juice in the diet. 

The addition of cream to grape cornstarch mold increases 
the food value of the dish by supplying fat. 
The pastry bag: 

The pastry bag, which is a bag made of rubber, or some firm, 

heavy material, such as duck or ticking, can bel^ought or made 

at home. To make this bag, fold a square 

Qof the material into a triangular shape and 
sew together with a felled seam two of 
the free edges. Cut a small piece ofiF the 
point, thus making an opening into which 
the metal tubes (see cut) may be fitted. 
The tubes, made of various metals, may 



Fig. 11.— Pastry Bags ^® bought either singly or in sets. With 
and Tubes the sets, a metal, threaded ring is sup- 

plied; this can be fastened to the small 
opening of the bag and the tubes screwed into it. 

In filling the bag, roll back the edges of the material at the 
large end and put in the mixture so that the part just above 
the tube is filled and the sides of the bag are not smeared. 

To use the bag, hold it in the left hand and twist the top of it 
with the right hand, forcing out the mixture by the twisting. 
Guide the tube with the left hand. Various shapes can be made 
by holding the bag in various positions. 



Digitized by 



Google 



STUDY OF FRUITS 23 

Cleaning up: 

1. What kind of water should be used to rinse greasy utensils? 

2. Rinse the tubes and bag with hot water. Dry the bag 
carefully. 

3. If the bag is made of cloth, scald it by boiling it for a few 
minutes after it has been rinsed. 

4. Wash and replace all utensils according to former 
directions. 

What has been learned: 

1. Because unfermented grape juice is nutritious, wholesome, 
and palatable, it is a valuable addition to the diet. 

2. How to make and use the pastry bag. 

Supplementary Recipes 

Grape Nectar 

Juice of 2 lemons 1 pt grape juice 

juice of 1 orange 1 c sugar 

1 pt water 

Serve the nectar ice-cold. If served from a punch bowl, it adds to the 
appearance to add a sliced lemon and orange. 

Grape Syllabub 

} qt sweet cream J c grape juice 

whites of 2 eggs 1 c powdered sugar 

Divide the sugar into halves. Beat the cream imtil stiff and the egg 
whites until dry. Add half the sugar to the cream, the other half to the 
egg whites. Mix the cream and egg well. Add the grape juice and poiu: 
the mixture over sweetened strawberries and pineapples or oranges and 
bananas. 

Bohemian Cream 

2 glasses grape jelly 1 pt thick sweet cream 
Stir the cream and jelly together. Put the mixture into individual 

molds and set them on ice. Serve these with macaroons or lady fingers. 



Digitized by 



Google 



24 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Lesson IV 

Baked Bananas 
Materials used: 

Class Rule Home Rule 

I banana 6 bananas 

J tb butter 2 tb butter 

I tb sugar ^ c sugar 

I tb lemon juice 2 tb lemon juice 

Utensils needed: 

Paring knife small bowl 

shallow granite pan spoons 

Work to be done: 

1. Pare and cut the banana into halves lengthwise. 

2. Place the slices of banana in the shallow granite pan. 

3. Mix together the melted butter, the sugar, and the lemon 
juice. 

4. Pour one-half of the mixture over the banana. 

5. Place the pan in a slow oven and bake twenty minutes. 

6. While baking, baste the banana occasionally with the 
remainder of the sirupy mixture. Where else has basting 
been done? (See page 15, Book One.) 

Serving: 

Baked bananas make a very acceptable dish in place of fresh 
fruit at breakfast. They may also be used as dessert for 
luncheon. 

A slice of lemon may be served with each individual portion 
of this dish as additional tartness is necessary to make this 
fruit, when cooked, palatable to some people. 
Principles : 

Bananas are very rich in carbohydrates and also contain 
fat and tissue-building materials; consequently they are a very- 
good food. Because bananas are rich in starch, cooking is very 
beneficial in bringing out their full food value and flavor. 
Much of the carbohydrate in bananas is present in the form of 



Digitized by 



Google 



STUDY OF FRUITS 25 

sugar, so they are very sweet. Unlike most fruits, they contain 
no acid; the lemon juice is added to supply this substance and 
thus increase their food value and palatability. 

Why can potatoes be cooked by baking? Name some other 
foods that can be baked without the addition of moisture. 
Because bananas contain a relatively small amount of water 
in proportion to the starch, they cannot well be cooked in dry 
heat, such as is used in baking, without the addition of some 
liquid. 
Cleaning up: 

1. What kind of water should be used for soaking the dish 
in which the bananas were baked? Why? 

2. Remove any discoloration from the pan with some scouring 
agent; what may be used? 

What has been learned: 

1. Bananas are a very nutritious food. 

2. Bananas need cooking to bring out their full value. 

3. Lemon juice, by adding acid to bananas, adds to their 
palatability and value as food. 

4. Bananas lack moisture, hence they cannot be cooked by 
dry heat without the addition of water. 



Lesson V 

Stewed Apples 
Materials used: 

1 apple 1 tb sugar water 

Utensils needed: 

Pan paring knife 

bowl spoon 

granite saucepan and cover 
Work to be done: 

1. Wash the apple and pare it. 

2. Cut the apple into quarters and remove the core. 



Digitized by 



Google 



26 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

3. Place the quartered apple in the saucepan; if the apple 
is very juicy, only a very little hot water need be used; if the 
apple is very dry, more water must be added. 

4. Cover the saucepan closely and set it over the fire; cook 
rapidly, without stirring, for five or ten minutes. 

5. Remove the cover; if the apple is soft, it is done. 

6. Put half of the sugar into the bowl; turn the sauce from 
the saucepan into the bowl and sprinkle the rest of the sugar 
over it. 

7. Cover the bowl closely and let it set; the sauce may be 
served hot, warm, or cold. 

8. If the sauce is to be served cold, let it remain covered 
until it is cold. 

Serving: 

Stewed apples should be served in individual china or glass 
dishes. Like baked bananas, they may be used either at break- 
fast or luncheon. Some people like cream served with any 
stewed fruit. 
Principles: 

The apple should be cooked rapidly in order to retain the 
delicate flavor. For the same reason, only just enough water to 
cook the apple thoroughly should be added; also, for the same 
reason, all stirring, either while cooking or after cooking, should 
be avoided. Keeping the sauce covered till it is cold retains 
the flavor. 

If a large amount of sauce is to be made, drop the pieces 
of apple, after they have been pared and cored, into cold water 
to which a little vinegar has been added. This prevents their 
turning dark colored. They must then be drained before being 
cooked in boiling water. 

What is there in apples that makes them taste sour, or tart? 
Do bananas have the same substance in them? What vegetable 
contains it? When fruits which contain acid are cooked with 
^ sugar, the sugar is changed to a substance which is called 
invert sugar. This invert sugar is not so sweet as cane 



Digitized by 



Google 



STUDY OF FRUITS 27 

sugar 9 its sweetening power being one-third less. Therefore 
if the sugar is added to the fruit after it is cooked, less sugar 
will be required, for then the acid will not turn the cane sugar into 
invert sugar, this change being produced only during the cook- 
ing. When the sugar is added after the fruit is cooked, the 
fruit pulp is not really sweetened, though the juice is. 

Why should a granite saucepan be used to cook the apple? 
What other kind of pan might be safely used? What kinds 
must not be used? 
Cleaning up: 

1. Keep all apple parings, stems, cores, and other refuse in 
the pan till they can be emptied into the garbage can or pail. 

2. Be careful that the towels do not become stained with the 
fruit. This can be avoided by using the holders for handling 
hot utensils, and by using the dishcloth and not the dish towel 
for wiping the desk or table. 

What has been learned: 

1. In cooking apples, the delicate flavor can best be retained 
by rapid cooking with little or no stirring, and by keeping the 
sauce covered during and after cooking. 

2. Dipping pared apples into cold water with a little vinegar 
in it prevents discoloration. 

3. Apples contain an acid. 

4. Cooking sugar with an acid changes the sugar to invert 
sugar. 

5. Invert sugar has one-third less sweetening power than 
common sugar. 

6. If sugar is added after the fruit ife cooked, less is required. 



Digitized by 



Google 



28 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Lesson VI 

Apple Sauce 

Note to Teacher: This lesson may be combined with the last one. 
The two should be compared. 

Materials used: 

i of an apple J c water i c sugar 

Utensils needed: 

Pan pan and cover 

bowl spoon 

paring knife measuring cup 

Work to be done: 

1. Wash, pare, core, and quarter the apple. 

2. Put the water and sugar into the saucepan and boil it 
for two minutes. 

3. Put the apple into the sirup and cook it, without stirring, 
until it is clear and transparent. 

4. Pour the sauce into the bowl and let it remain covered 
till served. Why covered? 

Serving: 

Serve the same as the stewed apples of the last lesson. 
Principles: 

Although this lesson seems very similar to the stewed apple 
lesson there are several dissimilarities in the methods used in 
the two and the finished products are also dissimilar. 

Which have the sweeter pulp, the apples which were stewed 
or those of this lesson? In which method of cooking was the 
greater amount of sugar used? Why was not the pulp of the 
stewed apple sweet? Why was the sugar not added to the 
stewed apples while they were cooking? In the sauce of this 
lesson is there any invert sugar? 

The method of making a sirup of sugar and water in which 
to cook fruit for sauce is quite common, especially when soft 
fruits are to be thus prepared. In which of the two lessons 



Digitized by 



Google 



STUDY OF FRUITS 29 

did the apples seem to retain their shape better? Soft fruits, 
such as apples, very easily lose their original shape when cooked. 
Why? When soft fruits are cooked in a sirup, the sirup has a 
hardening effect upon them, so that the shape is much better 
kept. Cooking fruit in sirup also sweetens the pulp as well as 
the juice, so that the resulting sauce is more palatable. Fruit 
so cooked requires much more sugar. Why? 
What has been learned: 

1. Fruit cooked in sirup retains its shape. 

2. Fruit cooked in sirup has a different flavor from that 
cooked without sugar and a more desirable flavor. 

3. Fruit cooked in sirup requires more sugar. 



Lesson VII 

Stewed Prunes 
Materials used: 

1 c prunes water 

Utensils needed: 

Saucepan cup bowl 

Work to be done: 

1. Wash the prunes. 

2. Put the prunes into the saucepan and add enough cold 
water to cover them; soak them several hours or over night. 

3. Cook the prunes by moderate heat for at least one hour in the 
water in which they were soaked, keeping it below the boiling point. 
Serving: 

These are served in the same way as are the stewed apples, 
but stewed prunes are also often used as a foundation for various 
puddings. 
Principles: 

Dried fruit is fruit from which the water or moisture has 
been evaporated by some means. At present, this is done in 
one of two ways, either by kiln drying or drying by direct 



Digitized by 



Google 



30 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

exposure to the rajrs of the sun. The latter method has been 
practiced by man from the earliest time. Uncivilized man 
dried not only fruits, but even meat and fish, in this way. 
Getting rid of the moisture makes the fruit less liable to spoil, 
providing it is not again allowed to become moist. 

As the population grew and there came a greater demand 
for dried foods, man ceased to rely upon the sun to dry the foods, 
for sun drying is always more or less uncertain unless one lives 
in a desert region. Thus it came about that appliances were 
made in which the foods could be dried evenly by a gentle 
application of heat. 

Before dried fruits are cooked or while they are being cooked, 
the water which has been evaporated must be replaced or the 
food will remain hard and unpalatable. To replace the water, 
either soak the fruit for several hours in cold or warm water, 
and then cook it in the same water, or cook it at a very low 
temperature, merely letting it simmer for several hours. 

Fruit must be cooked in the same water in which it is soaked, 
because part of the food material dissolves and so will be lost 
if the soaking water is thrown away. 

Prunes are so very sweet that if they are cooked long enough 
to bring out the sweetness, no sugar need be added to them. 
They, like bananas, are lacking in acidity. What was added 
to the bananas to remedy this? If a slice or two of lemon is 
added to the prunes while they are cooking, they, too, are very 
much improved. 
What has been learned : 

1. Dried fruit must be soaked a long time or else cooked 
slowly for a long time to restore its water content and bring 
out its natural sweetness. 

2. Dried fruit must be cooked in the same water in which 
it is soaked to avoid loss of the food material which dissolves 
in the water. 

3. If prunes are cooked long enough, they are sweet enough 
without adding sugar. 



Digitized by 



Google 



VEGETABLES 

Lesson Vm 

Potato in the Half Shell 

Materials used: 

Class Rule Home Rule 

1 medium-sized potato 6 medium-sized potatoes 

1 tp butter 2 tb butter 

1 tb hot milk 3 tb hot milk 

salt, pepper salt, pepper 

iegg 2 eggs 

Utensils needed: 

Vegetable brush fork 

pan egg beater 

teaspoon wire whip 

tablespoon plate or platter 

bowls omelet pan 

knife baking tin 

Work to be done: 

1. Wash the potato well, using the vegetable brush. 

2. Place the potato in a baking tin and bake in a moderate 
oven until it is soft. 

3. Cut the potato into halves lengthwise and scoop out the 
inside, turning it into the omelet pan. 

4. Break the egg, separating the white and yolk. Beat the 
yolk until it is thick and lemon-colored. 

6. Mash the potato. Add the butter, milk, salt, pepper, and 
^g yolk. 

6. Stir the whole over the fire until it is hot and well mixed. 
Beat it with a fork until it is creamy. 

31 



Digitized by 



Google 



32 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

7. Beat the egg white till it is stiff and dry. Carefully fold 
it into the egg mixture, reserving a little. 

8. Refill the potato shell, brushing it over with a little egg 
white. If desired, a little grated cheese may be sprinkled over 
the top. 

9. Put it into a hot oven and bake it about eight minutes, 
or until the top is delicately browned. 

Serving: 

Serve the potato on a fancy plate on which is placed a folded 
napkin. Potato in the half shell may be used as the principal 
dish at luncheon or with the meat course at dinner. It should 
be eaten with a fork. 
Principles: 

In what two ways is the potato mixture made light? What 
are the principles underlying the two ways? 

This dish may properly be termed a composite dish. What is 
a composite dish? Starch, or heat- and energy-giving material, 
is supplied by the potato. The tissue-building element is 
supplied by the white of the egg, the yolk, and the milk. Fat, 
the other energy-giving material, comes from the yolk of the 
egg and the butter. Mineral matter is found in the potato, 
the milk, and the egg. 

The potato belongs to the large class of fuel foods known as 
carbohydrates, while the egg is a protein food. Carbohydrates 
are so called because they have a great deal of carbon in their 
composition. When taken into the body, this carbon unites 
with oxygen, producing heat. This is the reason carbohydrates 
are called fuel foods. Fats, which have still more carbon in 
their composition, are also fuel foods. 

Protein, meaning "I take first rank," is a tissue-building 
food. Protein was given the name because it is the most 
important food. All proteins contain a great deal of nitrogen 
and are therefore often called nitrogenous foods. It is this 
nitrogen which makes them different from the carbonaceous 
foods, which do not contain any. The tissues of all animal 



Digitized by 



Google 



VEGETABLES 33 

bodies, including the human body, contain a great deal c ? the 
element nitrogen. Since protein substances are the only foods 
consumed which contain nitrogen, they are really the only 
foods which can build and repair tissue. For this reason, they 
are called the tissue-building foods. 
Cleaning up: 

1. Put the egg dishes to soak in cold water. 

2. In washing the dishes, proceed according to directions 
given in previous work. 

What has been learned: 

1. Potato in the half-shell is a composite dish. 

2. The potato is largely a carbohydrate food. 

3. Milk contains protein and carbohydrate. 

4. The albumen of the egg is a protein. 

5. The yolk of the egg contains fat and protein. 

6. Mineral matter is supplied by nearly all organic foods. 

7. Proteins contain nitrogen. So do the tissues of the body. 
Hence proteins are called tissue-builders. 



Lesson IK 

Baked Beans 

Suggestion to Teacher: This lesson should be given as a class 
demonstration. 

Materials used: 

Home Rule 

1 pt beans 1 tp salt 

1 tp soda 2 tb molasses 

J to ^ lb salt pork 2 tb sugar 

1 tp mustard (if desired) 
Utensils needed: 

Bean pot spoon 

measuring cup knife 



Digitized by 



Google 



34 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



Work to be done: 

1. Soak the beans over night in cold water. Soft water is 
preferred. If soft water calinot be obtained and hard water 

must be used, add 
a teaspoonful of 
soda to it. 

2. In the morn- 
ing, drain off the 
water, cover the 
beans with fresh 
water, heat them 
slowly, and cool 
them till the 
skins burst. Test 
whether they are 
done by tasting 
to see whether it 




Fig. 12.— Utensils for Baking Beans 



them, or by piercing one with a pin to see 
is soft. 

3. Rinse them thoroughly in hot water. 

4. Pour scalding hot water over the pork, remove a one-fourth 
inch slice, and put this in the bottom of the bean pot. 

5. Cut through the rind of the other piece of pork, making 
cuts or scores every half-inch to the depth of an inch. 

6. Put the beans and scored pork into the jar, leaving a 
little of the rind of the pork exposed. 

7. Mix the salt, mustard, molasses, and sugar, adding a cup 
of boiling water. 

8. Pour this mixture over the beans, adding enough hot water 
to come to the top of the jar. 

9. Put the cover on the bean-pot and bake the beans in a slow 
oven six or eight hours, taking the cover off for the last hour 
so that the top may become brown and crisp. 



Digitized by 



Google 



VEGETABLES 35 

Boston Brown Bread 
Materials used: 

Class Rule Home Rule 

i c commeal 1 c granulated commeal 

I c ryemeal 1 c ryemeal 

1 c graham 1 c graham flour 
^ tp soda i tp soda 

i tp baking powder 3 tp baking powder 

1^ tb molasses If c sweet milk 

3^ tb sweet milk f c molasses 

pinch of salt 1 tp salt 

a few raisins raisins 

2 c sour milk and If tp soda may be substituted for the 
sweet milk and baking powder. 

Utensils needed: 

Bowls knife 

measuring cup sieve 

teaspoon baking powder can or custard cup 

tablespoon kettle or saucepan 

Work to be done: 

1. Mix and force the dry materials through a coarse sieve. 

2. Add the molasses and the milk. Stir the mixture until it 
is well mixed. If raisins are to be lised, seed them and add them 
here and there as the batter is turned into the mold. 

3. Turn the batter into a well-buttered baking powder can. 
If this is not available, use a custard cup covered with a piece of 
coarse wrapping paper. Fill the can only two-thirds full. Why? 

4. Butter the cover, place it in position, and tie it down with 
a string. 

5. Place the mold in a kettle or saucepan containing boiling 
water, with an asbestos mat underneath to keep the water 
boiling uniformly. Let the water come halfway up around the 
mold, cover the kettle closely, and steam the mold, adding more 
water if necessary. The bread will be done in about 30 minutes. 
The full recipe requires from 3 to 3J hours. 



Digitized by 



Google 



36 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

6. Test by lifting oflf the cover and looking at the bread. 
If the paper covering is used, break a hole in the paper. Or the 
bread may be tested by breaking off a small piece at one side 
with a fork or knife. If doughy, it is not done. 

7. Remove the mold from the steamer, and put it in the oven 
for ten or fifteen minutes to dry out. The full recipe requires 
an hour. 

Serving: 

Because of the hearty nature of these two foods, they make a 
complete meal in themselves. They should be served hot at 

dinner. They are often served either 

__ ^^^^ ^^^^ ^^ ^^^ ^* luncheon, and they 

^^^k ^^^^^ are liked by many people for break- 

^^^^ ^^^V fast. Because of their hearty nature, 

^^^^H ^^^m they make a better food for winter 

^j^^^H ^ ^^^1 I ^^^^ ^^^y ^^ ^^^ sunmier. 

^^ ^^Ty ^^^ Principles: 

^ ^' - — ' (a) In what two food principles 



Fig. 13.— Boston Brown Bread are beans very rich? They lack fat, 

and for this reason the pork is 
combined with them in baking. 

Dried beans have lost so much water by evaporation that they 
require a long soaking to restore it. This soaking softens them. 
It has the added advantage of removing a bitter taste peculiar 
to beans. The substance causing this flavor is soluble in cold 
water. 

Legumin, the protein of beans, is very similar to the protein 
of milk. Hard water is very likely to contain a mineral sub- 
stance known as lime salt. Legumin has the property of 
combining with the lime salts, forming a substance not very 
readily dissolved and thus making the beans hard to soften. 
Soda also has the property of combining with the lime salts, 
forming a substance that is precipitated.. Therefore, if soda 
is added first to the water, this will combine with the lime salts 
preventing them from combining with the legumin. It is 



Digitized by 



Google 



VEGETABLES 37 

better, however, to soak the beans in soft water, as this does not 
contain the lime salts. 

(b) What are the advantages of steaming? What precaution 
must be taken? 

Molasses is slightly acid, therefore a little soda must be used 
in the batter to neutralize it. If sour milk is used, | tp of soda 
to 1 c of milk should be used. The proportion of soda to 
molasses in a batter is 1 tp to 1 c of molasses. 

Boston brown bread is a composite food. By what are the 
different food principles supplied? 

Besides the presence of the different food principles, another 
point in favor of its use in the diet is the cheapness of its ingred- 
ients. With the baked beans, it forms a very hearty and 
nutritious food. 
Cleaning up: 

How can the discoloration caused by baking be removed 
from the bean pot? 

How should the utensil used to contain the molasses be 
treated? Why? 
What has been learned: 

1. Beans should be soaked either in soft water or in hard 
water to which soda has been added to facilitate softening. 

2. Pork or some other fatty food should be combined with 
the beans to supply fat, the food principle lacking. 

3. Long soaking removes a bitter taste peculiar to beans. 

4. Soda is added to a batter in which molasses is used, to 
neutralize the acid in the molasses, the proportion being 1 tp 
to 1 c. 

5. Boston brown bread should be baked in the oven after 
being steamed, in order to dry it out. 

6. Boston brown bread is a cheap as well as a nutritious food. 



Digitized by 



Google 



38 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Lesson X 

Bacteria (Reading) 

As the visible world is made up of good and bad, desirable 
and undesirable, so is the microscopic world. There are good 
bacteria and bad bacteria. In the bacterial worid, as in the 
visible worid, we hear more about the bad than the good. The 
fact is that we could not long exist without the friendly bacteria, 
for we should be overwhelmed with waste matter. They are 
the true scavengers of the worid. But we have to acknowledge 
the presence in the worid of an over-abundance of unfriendly 
bacteria. These are the deadliest of foes to mankind. 

Bacteria have not been known very long to scientists. Less 
than fifty years have elapsed since they have been definitely 

studied and there is still 
much to learn about them. 
The knowledge of how best 
to combat them is spread- 
ing rapidly and it is a 

Fig. 14.-Size of Bacteria, (a) Grain knowledge every housewife 

of dust. (6) The Point of a should possess. The 

needle, (c) Bacteria. housewife has long known 

as "germs" the organisms causing such diseases as typhoid 

fever, smallpox, and diphtheria, but she is just beginning 

to appreciate the fact that microbes that cause the souring of 

milk and the spoiling of food belong to the same family. 

Bacteria are the smallest and simplest of living organisms. 

Many are not more than one fifty-thousandth of an inch and 

the largest are not more than one ten-thousandth of an inch in 

diameter. For a long time the scientists were undecided as to 

whether they were plants or animals, but now all are agreed that 

they are plants. Very little besides their external appearance 

is known of them. Some are rod-shaped, some round, and 

some are spiral in form; nearly all have the power of motion; 




Digitized by 



Google 



VEGETABLES 



39 



especially is this likely to be the ease with those living in 
liquids. 

Wherever other animals or plants can live, whether it be in 
the air, the soil, or the water, there bacteria are also present. 

The reason such very minute organisms can cause so much 
harm is that they are present in such great numbers, this abun- 
dance being due to the ease and rapidity of their growth and 
multiplication. Bacteria grow and reproduce more rapidly 
than any other living organism known; in this fact lies the chief 
cause of their great danger to mankind. If there were only one 
single bacterium in a cup of milk, by the end of half an hour 
this one would have divided itself into two, provided the right 
conditions for growth existed in the milk. At the end of another 






Fig. 15. — Forms of Bacteria 

half hour, each of the two would have divided into halves, and 
formed two new bacteria. At the end of the third half hour 
each of the four would have gone through the same process 
again, making eight. And so the growth and multiplication 
would continue, until by the end of the twenty-four hours there 
would be thousands of bacteria in the cup of milk. 

The method of reproduction most coromon to bacteria is 
the simplest method known. It is called fission. Organisms 
which multiply in this way simply lengthen out a little and then 
divide straight through the middle. Each of the halves grows 
until it reaches the length of the original organism and then each 
divides into halves, and so the process goes on incjefinitely. 
In fission, each of the halves which have been formed receives 



Digitized by 



Google 



40 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

exactly the same amounts of all the contents of the mother cell, 
and this rule is followed as long as fission takes place. 

Some bacteria have, in addition, another method of multi- 
plication, or multiplication by the formation of spores. Inside 
the living organism a little round body appears. This often 
is broader than the body of the original organism, but whether 
it is or not, it ultimately breaks through and moves about freely, 
while the parent organism disappears entirely. Under right 
conditions, the spore will grow and give rise to a new individual. 
Those bacteria which form spores are more dangerous than those 
which do not, because the spore does not need food until it 
begins to develop, and it has a thick protective covering which 
makes it ^ble to withstand very extreme temperatures both of 
heat and of cold. For this reason the spore is able to tide 
the organism over any very adverse condition which may arise. 
(See Figure 15.) 

It was stated that if the right conditions for growth existed 
in the cup of milk, the bacteria would grow. They depend 
upon food and water for growth just as much as do all other 
living organisms. A few do live and grow without air, but 
most of them must have air also. 

The foods most easily and commonly attacked by bacteria 
are the proteins. The proteins already studied are the albumen 
of eggs, the casein of milk, the gluten of flour, and the legumin 
of peas and beans. A food which contains any of the above 
ingredients has the corresponding protein element, and is corres- 
pondingly open to the attacks of the bacteria. For this reason 
such fpods spoil readily. Pure starch and sugar cannot be used 
as food for bacteria, but sugar can be used if it is in a water 
solution and starch if it is in combination with the other food 
elements. It is for this reason that sugar is used in preserving 
fruits. Fats may be attacked by bacteria, but less readily than 
the protein; when thus attacked, they become rancid. 

The only form in which bacteria can exist without moisture is 
in the spore form. Spores are very resistant to drying and can 



Digitized by 



Google 



VEGETABLES 41 

live almost indefinitely in a perfectly dry state. In this lies 
the great danger of the spore-forming bacteria. It is not 
enough, however, that bacteria are supplied with an abundance 
of food and water; the temperature of the substance by which 
they are surrounded must also be of the right temperature for 
their growth. Human beings seem to thrive best in the moder- 
ate temperatures of the temperate zones. No such statement 
can be made with regard to bacteria, for the different kinds 
have different temperatures at which they grow most rapidly. 
However, none can grow below the freezing point of water, 
though they may continue to live in such a temperature. And 
neither is there any species which can grow at the boiling 
point of water, nor can they live in this temperature if it is 
applied long enough; even spores must succumb in the end. 
Bub there are some bacteria which grow best in a temperature 
not far from freezing and there are others which grow best in a 
much higher temperature. Ranging between these two 
extremes are the best growing temperatures for all the other 
species of bacteria. As the bacteria grow they must consume 
food. They do this by taking out of the attacked substance 
just what they want, with the result that the food remaining 
is changed and will ultimately fall to pieces; if left long 
enough, it will disappear entirely. When milk sours, eggs rot^ 
and meat becomes putrid, one knows that bacteria are living 
and growing upon or within the substance. 



Digitized by 



Google 



42 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 
Lesson XI 



Corn a la Southern 



Materials used: 



Home Rule 

1 can corn 

2 eggs 

1 tp salt 

a few grains of ,pepper 
1§ tp melted butter 
1 pt scalded milk 



utensils for measuring 
bowl for beating eggs 



Class Rule 

i c com 

iegg 

i tp salt 

a few grains of pepper 

f tp melted butter 

I c scalded milk 
Utensils needed: 

Baking dish 

double boiler 

egg beater 
Work to be done: 

1. Place the oven over the fire. 

2. Scald the milk in the double boiler. 

3. Beat the eggs slightly. 

4. Add the beaten eggs to the com, with the salt and pepper, 
and mix thoroughly. 

5. Add the scalded milk and stir. 

6. Butter the baking dish. Pour in the mixture and bake it 

in a moderate oven. 
Serving: 

Corn prepared in this 
way can be used as a 
vegetable at dinner, or 
as the principal dish at 
a luncheon. It should 
be served from the bak- 
ing dish. This may be 
concealed by a napkin folded about it and then placed on a 
pretty plate, or it can be placed within the silver dish or cas- 




FiG. 16. — Com in Casserole 



Digitized by 



Google 



VEGETABLES 43 

serole provided for it. It should be served by the host upon 
the dinner plate, and should be eaten with the fork. 
Principles: 

This is a very nutritious composite dish. Name the food 
principles contained in each ingredient. 
Cleaning up: 

Soak the dish in which the mixture was baked in cold or 
lukewarm water. Why? 

Lesson Xn 

Cocoa and Chocolate 

Note to Teacher: Divide the class into two sections; let one section 
make cocoa, and the other chocolate. 

Cocoa 

Materials used: 

Class Rule ^ Home Rule 

I c scalded milk 2 c scalded milk 

i c boiling water 2 c boiling water 

a few grains of salt a few grains of salt 

J tb cocoa 2 tb cocoa 

J tb sugar 4 to 7 tb sugar 

Utensils needed: 

Granite pan utensils for measuring 

double boiler Dover egg beater 

wooden spoon 

Work to be done: 

1. Mix the dry ingredients in the granite pan. 

2. Pour the boiling water upon the mixture slowly, stirring 
all the time. 

3. Let the mixture boil five minutes. 

4. Add the milk and let it boil a minute or two longer. 

5. "Mill" the mixture (with a Dover egg beater) by beating 
it two minutes, or until a froth forms. 



Digitized by 



Google 



44 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



Chocolate 



Home Rule 
li sq Baker's chocolate 
4 tb sugar 
1 c boiling water 
4 c milk, scalded 
a few grains of salt 



Materials used: 

Class Rule 
i sq chocolate 

2 tp sugar 

3 tb boiling water 
f e milk, scalded 
2 or 3 grains of salt 

Utensils needed: 

Use the same utensils as for cocoa. 
Work to be done: 

1. Scald the milk. 

2. Place the chocolate in the pan and set it within another 
pan in which there is some boiling water. Melt the chocolate. 

3. Add the sugar and salt to the chocolate. 

4. Add the boiling water slowly, stirring all the time. 

5. Place the pan directly over the fire and let the contents 
boil one minute. 

6. Add the chocolate to the scalded milk; stir. 

7. "Mill" as in making cocoa. 
Serving: 

Cocoa may be served either at luncheon, dinner, or breakfast, 

or at all three meals, 
just as preferred. In 
many homes it is also 
served in the afternoon 
to callers and at after- 
noon and evening social 
affairs. A spoonful of 
whipped cream is often 
placed on each cup just 

Fig. 17.-A Chocolate Service t)^^^^® serving. 

Both cocoa and choc- 
olate should be drunk from the cup. A spoon is used only in 
sipping to ascertain if the flavor is right. 




Digitized by 



Google 



VEGETABLES 45 

Principles: 

Cocoa and chocolate are very nourishing drinks because they 
are made partly of milk and because considerable nutritive 
material in the form of mineral matter, fat, carbohydrate, and 
protein is contained in the cocoa and chocolate. Both cocoa 
and chocolate are made from the bean of the cacao tree of South 
America. Cocoa, as we receive it, has been separated from the 
natural oil; in chocolate, the oil has not been removed. For 
this reason the chocolate is the more nutritious of the two. 

Cocoa and chocolate contain a substance known as theo- 
bromine, a substance which resembles the caffeine of cofifee and 
has the same efifect upon the digestion. They also contain 
tannin, but it is slightly different from that found in tea. Unlike 
tea and cofifee, cocoa and chocolate must be boiled to be pal- 
atable. They are less stimulating than either of the other two. 

As has been said in the foregoing lesson, milk contains a 
small amount of albumin,* a protein. This, as was seen in the 
lessons on eggs, hardens when heat is applied, even if this heat 
is below the boiling point. It is this hardened albumin which 
rises to the surface of milk when it is heated, forming a scum. 
To prevent the formation of this scum, which is unsightly, the 
cocoa or chocolate is beaten with the Dover egg beater until 
a froth appears. This process is called "milling"; by it the 
layer of coagulated albumin is broken up into minute fragments. 
Cleaning up: 

1. How should milk dishes be cleaned? Why? 
What has been learned: 

1. Cocoa and chocolate are more nutritious, but less stimu- 
lating than tea or cofifee. 

2. The albumin in milk coagulates and rises to the surface 
when milk is heated. This scum is removed or prevented by 
milling. 

^Albumin, a protein constituent found in milk and other foods, is not 
identical, as formerly supposed, with albmnen, the white of egg. 



Digitized by 



Google 



MILK 
Lesson Xm 

Milk (Reading) 

Milk is one of the best foods for man; it is as perfect a food 
for the infant as the egg is for the unhatched chick. But as 
the child grows to manhood or womanhood, more nourishment 
is required than milk alone is able to supply, hence it is not 
so perfect a food for man; it must therefore always be used in 
combination with other foods which supply what the milk 
lacks. What food principle does com used with milk supply? 
This can perhaps be better understood when the composition 
of milk is known. 

Milk is not purely tissue-building, or protein food, neither 
is it, strictly speaking,* a heat-producing food, but it is a mixture 
of the two. The nutritive constitutents of the milk are held 
in solution by a large amount of water, for milk is about 87% 
water. The chief protein constituent in milk is called casein, 
although there is a small amount of albumin present. (What 
other food contains albumin?) Three and three-tenths per 
cent of the milk is protein, or tissue-building material. The 
carbohydrate in milk is present in the form of lactose, or milk 
sugar, lactose meaning pertaining to milk. It is the lactose, of 
which there is about 5% present, which gives to milk its sweet 
taste. It is this same lactose which necessitates the use of a 
double boiler in heating milk, for when milk is exposed directly 
to the heat of the fire, the lactose burns, because it is as sensitive 
to heat as is the cane sugar of which caramel is made. 

Fat is also present in all milk which has not been skimmed, 
although the amount present varies in the milk from different 

46 



Digitized by 



Google 



MILK 



47 



cows. All are familiar with cream, which is the fat of milk. 
Average milk contains about 4 per cent of fat. Aa 
milk is the only food for infants for a 
long time, it is necessary that it contain 
some material out of which the body 
may build its frame-work. This material 
is present in the form of mineral 
matter. Milk contains about three- 
fourths of one per cent of mineral matter. 
Because a cup of milk contains so 
much water, if a person were to live 
on milk alone it would be necessary 
to drink a great many cups of it each 
day in order to supply the necessary 
amounts of other food principles. Drink- 
ing such large quantities of milk is neither 
beneficial nor comfortable. So man 
learned early and perhaps unconsciously to combine with milk 
other foods which are richer in proteins and carbohydrates, 
and which supply the bulk which the milk alone lacks, for 
our bodies are not able properly to digest and take care of 
the food eaten unless there is a certain amount of bulk 
supplied. 




Fig. 18. — Composition 
of Milk 



BSilk products: 



Whole Milk 



Cream 



(Butter making) 
(Butter 
\ Buttermilk 

(Cottage cheese) 



Skim Milk 
(Cheese making) 
Whole Milk {^^ 



{Casein curd 
Whey 



Digitized by 



Google 



48 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

What has been learned: 

1. Milk consists of approximately 87% water, 3.3% protein, 
5% carbohydrate, 4% fat, and a little less than 1% mineral 
matter. 

2. Casein is the protein of milk; lactose, the carbohydrate. 

3. Lactose bums readily; for this reason milk should never 
be heated directly over the fire. 

4. Milk alone does not furnish enough nutrients or bulk to 
support the life of mature persons; therefore for them it should 
be combined with other foods. 



Lesson XIV 

CusTAKD Souffle 
Materials used: 

Class Rule Home Rule 

f tb butter 3 tb butter 

1 tb flour i c flour 

J c scalded milk 1 c scalded milk 

1 egg 4 eggs 

1 tb sugar i c sugar 
Utensils needed: 

Double boiler buttered pudding dish 

egg beater utensils for measuring 

2 bowls wooden spoon 
granite pan 

Work to be done: 

1. Place the oven over the fire. 

2. Scald the milk. 

3. Beat the yolks of the eggs until they are thick and lemon- 
colored and mix the sugar with them. 

4. Beat the whites of the eggs until they are stijff and dry. 

5. Melt the butter, mix the flour with it, and add the scalded 
milk. What precautions must be observed and why? 



Digitized by 



Google 



MILK 49 

6. Pour the mixture on the yoljcs, stirring all the time. 

7. Let the mixture cool. 

8. When this is cool, fold in the whites. 

9. Turn the whole into a buttered pudding dish and bake 
from 30 to 35 minutes in a slow oven. 

10. Serve the custard at once with foamy sauce. 

« -. A • 1 J Foamy Sauce 

Materials used: 

Class Rule Home Rule 

I egg white whites of 2 eggs 

i c powdered sugar 1 c powdered sugar 

1 tb hot milk i c hot milk 

5 drops vanilla 1 tp vanilla 

Utensils needed: 

Bowl egg beater 

double boiler utensils for measuring 

Work to be done: 

1. Beat the eggs until they are stiff. 

2. Add the sugar gradually, still beating the eggs. 

3. Add the milk and vanilla and continue beating. The 
sauce should be light and creamy. This should be made while 
the souffle is baking, put on while the latter is hot, and served 
at once. 

Serving: 

This dish, like an omelet, will fall unless served before it is 
allowed to cool. It makes a very palatable dessert for either 
luncheon or dinner. It should be served from the dish in which 
it is baked. 
Principles: 

The principle underlying the making of custard souffle is 
just the same as that underlying the making of omelets. Just 
as great care must be exercised in baking it, and like the omelets 
it must be served with a hot sauce immediately after it is taken 
from the oven. 

Custard soujffl6, when well done, is a very light, puffy food. 



Digitized by 



Google 



50 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Was any leavening agent used in making it? What was used 
to make the omelet light and puffy? Whenever it is desired 
to make any article of food light by means of air, the air must 
be entangled within the uncooked food in considerable quan- 
tities. Eggs are most commonly used when it is desired to 
entangle air within the food, because by beating the eggs the 
air is quickly and easily incorporated within them and the 
sticky quality of the albmnen of the egg prevents the ready 
escape of the air after it has once been incorporated with the 
egg. Whenever eggs are beaten, it is done with the purpose of 
entangling as much air as possible within them. 

After the air has been secured, great care must be exercised 
lest some of it escape. It is for this reason that beaten white of 
egg is nearly always folded into a food, and the food is seldom 
stirred after the egg white has thus been added. Excessive 
stirring would break large numbers of the little sacks of albumen 
containing the air, thus allowing it to escape. 

As in the omelet, so in this dish, not enough flour has been 
added to stiffen the batter. 

When air is heated, it expands to many times its original 
volume. If the walls surrounding it are elastic, they will be 
forced out by the expanding air; in this way the batter is made 
porous. What will happen to the air within the walls of albu- 
men when it is cooled? When considerable flour is added to a 
batter made light in this way, it combines with the albumen 
of the egg and stiffens the dough so that the result is a light, 
spongy food, such as well-made cake or bread. When but very 
little or no flour is added to the mixture, there is nothing that 
will give stiffness to the delicate walls of albumen and the 
result is that they fall down, or collapse, as soon as the pressure 
within them is removed. That is the reason an omelet or a 
custard souflGi6 always falls when it has cooled. 
Cleaning up: 

What kind of water should be used in cleaning these dishes? 
Why? 



Digitized by 



Google 



MILK 51 

What has been learned: 

1. Air when heated expands to many tunes its original volume. 

2. Air incorporated into a batter expands, thus forcing; 
the walls surrounding it apart, making a light, porous food 
when done. 

3. Flour added to a batter helps to make the expanded walls^ 
of albumen firm so that they will not collapse when the pressure^ 
within them is withdrawn. 

4. Any food which is light and porous when done, but ta 
which no flour has been added, must be served hot so as not 
to give the deUcate albumen walls a chance to collapse. 



Lesson XV 

Bacteria (Reading) 

In Lesson X an attempt was made to giye a httle general 
information on bacteria. This lesson will tell more specifically 
how bacteria get into the milk supply and what harm they may 
cause there. Like all other forms of plant and animal hfe, bac- 
teria must have food and warmth and moisture or they will die. 
You already know that protein compounds make the best food 
for bacteria, and that these organisms can use sugar only when 
in a water solution, and starch only when mixed with protein 
and other food elements. 

Therefore you will see that milk is an ideal food and home 
for these lively little creatures of the microscopic world, for 
milk has protein for them in the form of casein, and sugar in 
the form of lactose, and both are in a water solution. When 
it is freshly drawn from the cow, milk has an ideal temperature 
for the growth of bacteria. Therefore it is not surprising that 
milky unless it is cooled almost to freezing, or boiled, should 
be swarming with many kinds of bacteria, unless extra pre- 
cautions have been taken to exclude them. 



Digitized by 



Google 



52 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 







f 













Fig. 19.— Cubic 
Centimeter 



A dairy is a good breeding place for bacteria. No place can 
be more congenial to the enterprising microbe, which has the 
advantage of its pursuers in that it is invisible to the naked eye 
— as secret in all its movements and functions as the fairy folk 
of Ireland or the "ghaists'' of Scotland. 

Of the bacteria which elect to live in the dairy, some breed 
in manure, others live on the stock food, some come from the 
cows themselves, and others may come 
with the milk. Over two hundred different 
kinds of bacteria have been counted, and as 
all of them are incessantly busy and inces- 
santly increasing, the result is apt to be 
all too apparent in a short time, even 
though the tiny causes are quite invisible. 
Imagine if you can, ten thousand bacteria 
in a cubic centimeter. Then stretch your 
imagination a little farther and picture 
several hundreds of thousands of bacteria in the same space — 
which is a very small space indeed. But some milk sold in 
cities has been found to contain bacteria in these numbers. 

However, not all these bacteria are harmful. Some are 
known to be harmless, but when these are present it is almost 
a sure sign that harmful ones are present also. Certain bacteria 
are even useful in the dairy industry, for butter of good flavor 
cannot be obtained without them. 

The harmful bacteria, the most important class, may be 
divided into two kinds: (1) Those having an injurious effect 
on milk, causing it to become sour, discolored, or slimy; 
(2) those apparently not affecting the milk, but having an 
injurious effect upon the person using the milk. Disease germs 
are of the latter class. Diseases which are frequently spread 
by milk are typhoid fever, scarlet fever, diphtheria, tubercu- 
losis, and the different types of digestive troubles, of which 
cholera infantum is an example. 
There are three distinct causes of impure milk. These are: 



Digitized by 



Google 



MILK 



53 



(1) Disease of animals and persons handling the milk; (2) un- 
cleanliness in the stable; (3) uncleanliness outside the stable. 

Cows are liable to 
some diseases which also 
affect man; tuberculo- 
sis, or consumption, is 
the most conmion of 
these. Milk affected 
with these germs from 
the cow has often been 
shown to be the cause 
of tuberculosis in small 
children. Inmany 
states and in some 
large cities dairymen must now have their cows inspected 
for tuberculosis by a government official. If any animal is 
found infected with the disease, she is immediately disposed 
of. The other diseases are not often transmitted from the 
cow, for cows are not likely to have them. When the germs 
causing those diseases are present in the milk, they get into it 
from the outside. If any one of the attendants handling the 

milk has one of the 




Fia. 20. — ^An Unsanitary Barn 




the germs 
are likely to get into 
the milk. 

But the greatest 
source of impurities 
in milk is the stable. 
Here dirt gets into 
the milk from three 
sources, namely, the 
cow, the milker, and the air. When a barn is carelessly cleaned, 
the air swarms with bacteria and these drop by millions into 
the open pail. A bam should be kept scrupulously clean, the 
cows should be kept clean, and the attendants when milking. 



Fig. 21. — ^A Sanitary Bam 



Digitized by 



Google 




54 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

should wear clean white suits. The milk pail used should not be 
open, but covered all over the top and there should be a round 
strainer through which the milk should pass. As soon as the 
<;ow has been milked, the milk should be removed from the bam. 
Outside the stable, the most important sources of infection 
fire unclean dairy utensils and impure water. Utensils are often 

so poorly made or poorly 

1 1 1 1 1 1 cared for that milk will get 

I 1 J I into the seams and comers, 

1 1 where it remains, a fit 

\ I ♦ breeding place for countless 

\ bacteria. Milk utensils 

should first be rinsed in 

cold water, because hot 

water cooks the casein and 

Fig. 22.— Two Kinds of Milk Pails. The causes the milk to adhere to 

open pail admits much dirt; the the utensil. Then the 

covered pail keeps it out ^ .1,111 11 

utensil should be washed 

in hot soapy water and rinsed with boiling water, never with 
cold water, because the latter may contain some of the organisms 
from which it is desired to free the utensils. Then if the uten- 
sils be exposed directly to the sunlight, so much the better, for 
the sunlight kills bacteria as well as does boiling. "Water 
from cisterns, shallow wells, or streams, or that which has 
long been exposed to the air cannot be relied upon as being 
pure. Sometimes surface drainage or seepage from cess- 
pools or bar^ yards finds a way through the ground to the well, 
And in this way typhoid fever germs have often been known to 
pollute the milk.'' 

To be sure, therefore, that the milk is in good condition 
when it leaves the dairy, the following rules should be 
observed: 

1. The bam and its surroundings should be kept scmpulously 
«lean. 

2. The attendants should be healthy and cleanly. 



Digitized by 



Google 



MILK 



55 



3. The cows should be inspected once each year for contagious 
diseases. 

4. The water supply should be examined and known to be 
above suspicion. 

5. The greatest care should be used in handling and caring 
for utensils. 

6. The milk should be cooled as soon as possible after being 
drawn that the bacteria present may be given as little oppor- 
tunity as possible for growth. 

7. The milk should not be left exposed to the air. 



Lesson XVI 



Pasteurized Milk 



Materials used: 

1 c milk 
Utensils needed: 

Half-pint bottle 
some cotton 
rubber cork 
deep pan 
Work to be done: 

1. Sterilize the bottle by 
placing it edgewise in a pan 
of cold water, bring slowly 
to the boiling point, and boil 
20 minutes. 

2. Place the cotton in the 
oven and bake it in order to 
sterilize it. 

3. Place the milk in the bottle and cork it with cotton. 

4. Fold several thicknesses of paper and place on the bottom 
of the pan. Place the bottle on the paper, and pour in enough 




Fig. 23. — Domestic Pasteurizer 



Digitized by 



Google 



56 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

water to reach as high up on the neck of the bottle as does the 
milk. 

5. Heat gradually to 150°, or until small bubbles appear in 
the milk next to the glass. 

6. Keep at this temperature 40 minutes. 

7. Sterilize the cork in hot water, but do not boil it. Cork 
th^ bottle and set it in a cool place. 

Serving: 

Pasteurized milk should be served to infants and to small 
children and invalids whenever it is suspected that the milk 
supply is not so good as it ought to be. 
Principles: 

It has been stated in the preceding lesson that milk is a 
frequent carrier of disease germs, because it is such a good 
medium for their growth and there are so many opportunities 
for their entrance into the milk. For this reason one can never 
be perfectly sure that the milk supplied by the dairyman or 
purchased at the store is fit to be used. When investigators 
learned what great dangers are often hidden away in very 
innocent-looking milk, they immediately went to work to dis- 
cover some method by which those dangers could be averted. 
The first man to discover a good method was Pasteur, a French 
scientist. From his work has developed the process known as 
Pasteurization of milk. 

It was stated in the reading lesson on bacteria that none of 
these organisms will live at the boiling temperature of water 
if this intense heat be applied for a long enough time. Therefore 
boiling milk for a few minutes must necessarily kill all the 
bacteria present. The milk is then said to be sterilized. How 
was the bottle for the milk sterilized? Sterilize means to make 
void of life. 

But there are certain objections to sterilized milk. It does 
not taste so good as does milk which has not been boiled, and it 
is much more difiicult for young children to digest. In Pas- 
teurized milk, the taste is not impaired because the milk is not 



Digitized by 



Google 



MILK 57 

heated to the boiling point; it is ahnost as easily digested by 
the young child as is fresh milk; and most of the bacteriological 
organisms have been killed. For these reasons, Pasteurized 
milk is preferable to boiled milk. 

To Pasteurize milk, the liquid should be subjected to a tem- 
perature of 160° F. for ten minutes or longer. Below 160° F. the 
albumin in the milk is not coagulated. Above that, it is. 
Milk should never be heated so that the albumin coagulates. 
Why? After the milk is removed from this temperature, 
it must be cooled rapidly and never under any circumstances 
be exposed to the air. 

Perhaps some will wonder why it is that a temperature below 
boiling will kill the bacteria present. The reasons are very 
simple. In the reading lesson on bacteria it was stated that 
spores were able to resist very high temperature. But bacteria 
which are most likely to be present in milk are, fortunately for us, 
not the spore-forming kind; those commonly present may be 
killed by a temperature of 160° if applied steadily for some time. 
What has been learned: 

1. Because milk is such an excellent carrier of germs, it must 
be rendered safe to use either by sterilizing or pasteurizing. 

2. Pasteurizing milk Is heating it from 155° to 170° F. from 
ten to forty minutes. Pasteurized milk tastes better and is 
more easily digested than sterilized milk. 



Lesson XVII 

Cottage Cheese 

Materials used: 

Class Rule Home Rule 

f G sour milk 1 qt sour milk 

i tp butter 1 tb butter 

a few grains of salt i tp salt 

1 tp cream 2 or 3 tb cream 



Digitized by 



Google 



58 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Utensils needed: 

^ Double boiler wooden spoon 

piece of cheesecloth utensils for measuring 

strainer bowl 

Work to be done: 

1. Heat the milk slowly in the double boiler. Do not let 
the temperature get above 100** F. 

2. Heat until the solid portion of the milk (curd) and the 
liquid portion (whey) separate. 

3. Fit the cheesecloth into the strainer. Strain the milk 
through. 

4. Squeeze the curd until it becomes quite dry. 

5. Place the curd in the bowl and mix with it the salt, butter, 
and cream, using the wooden spoon or a fork. 

6. Shape the cheese into balls. 
Serving: 

If desired, the balls may be rolled in finely-cut parsley before 
they are sent to the table. Have a lace paper doily upon the 
plate underneath the cheese. Cottage cheese may be served 
with celery at the close of the dinner in place of dessert. When 
the salad does not accompany the game or roast, this cheese is 
ordinarily served with it before the dessert. Cottage cheese 
is often served with bread and butter at luncheon or at supper. 
It is eaten with a fork. 
Principles: 

The souring of milk is due entirely to a species of bacteria 
known as lactic acid bacteria, or the bacteria which produce 
acid in milk. These organisms get into the milk from the dust 
and dirt in the air, and from unclean receptacles. A doctor 
in Boston sterilized some bottles and into these he had some milk 
placed which was freshly drawn and which had not come in 
contact with the air. The bottles were tightly corked with 
sterilized corks and the doctor took them with him on an ocean 
voyage. The last bottle was opened in Berlin and its contents 
were just as sweet as on the first day they were bottled. Thus 



Digitized by 



Google 



MILK 59 

it is seen that if milk could be put into nothing but sterilized 
utensils and never exposed to the air, it would keep sweet much 
longer than it does. 

The lactic acid bacteria work on the sugar present in the 
milk, changing it to lactic acid. This acid gives to milk a sour 
taste whenever it is present. Like vinegar or any other acid, 
it causes the protein substance, casein, to coagulate. Thus 
^are formed the two substances in milk known as the curd 
and the whey. The curd is solidified casein, the whey is 
water with the milk sugar and some mineral matter dissolved 
in it. 

The changes produced in milk by the presence of lactic acid 
bacteria occur most rapidly at a temperature of from 70° to 90° F. 
because between these two temperatures the lactic acid bacteria 
grow the best. Below 80° their growth is checked and at a 
low temperature it ceases entirely; above 90° F. the organisms 
are killed. For this reason the milk should be cooled as quickly 
after it is drawn as is convenient. 

In what food element is cottage cheese very rich? 
In making cottage cheese, never allow it to become warmer than 
100°; for if the temperature is allowed to rise higher than this, 
the cheese will become tough because of the undue hardening 
of the casein. 
Cleaning up: 

1. Soak the piece of cheesecloth in cold water, then rinse it 
thoroughly in the same water to remove all adhering particles 
of cheese. 

2. Wash the cloth in warm, sudsy water, rinse it in hot water 
and hang it up to dry. 

3. Remove all dishes, wash, and put them away as has been 
directed in other lessons. 

What has been learned: 

1. The souring of milk is due to lactic acid bacteria. 

2. Lactic acid bacteria are not normally present in milk; 
they get into it from the outside. 



Digitized by 



Google 



60 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

3. Lactic acid bacteria grow best at a temperature of from 
70° to 90° F. 

4. Milk should be cooled as soon as possible. 



Lesson XVm 

Rennet Custards 

Materials used: 

Class Rule Home Rule 

J c milk 1 qt milk 

i tb sugar 4 tb sugar 

2 or 3 drops of vanilla 1 tp vanilla 

i of a junket tablet 1 junket tablet dissolved 

dissolved in J tp water in 1 tb water 

a very little salt i tp salt 

Utensils needed: 

Mold for the junket 

double-boiler 

utensils for measuring 
Work to be done: 

1. Heat the milk until lukewarm. 

2. Add the sugar, salt, and flavoring. 

3. Dissolve the junket tablet and add it to the milk. 

4. Let the mixture stand in a warm room until set; then 
place it in the ice box to cool. 

Serving: 

Serve from the bowl in which the custard was set, either 
with plain or with whipped cream. This custard may be used 
as a dessert at either luncheon or dinner. It is especially good 
for children or invalids. 
Principles: 

In this lesson another form of coagulation of milk has been 
illustrated. The junket tablet which was used to thicken the 



Digitized by 



Google 



MILK 61 

milk has another name, rennet, a substance prepared from 
the lining of a calf's stomach. The walls of a calf's stomach 
secrete a substance known as rennin. This substance hardens 
the milk the moment it reaches the stomach, just as the junket 
tablet hardened the milk in the mold. 

The same substance, rennin, is found in the lining of the 
human stomach, where it aids in the digestion of milk. The 
milk hardens immediately when it reaches the stomach. Many 
people are in the habit of gulping down a glassful of milk all at 
once. This is injurious to them because naturally the milk 
then reaches the stomach all at once, and is hardened into a 
large mass which it is difficult for the stomach to digest. Milk 
should be taken slowly and in small mouthf uls. Then it reaches 
the stomach at short intervals, where the rennin hardens it 
into small portions as it comes. Milk taken this way will 
cause no digestive trouble and will give greater benefit to the 
person drinking it. At all times it should be remembered that 
milk is a food, not simply a beverage. What food element does 
it contain? When it is used in the diet, less of other food is 
necessary. 
Cleaning up: 

1. Wash and put away all utensils just as in the other lessons 
on milk. 
What has been learned: 

1. The coagulation of milk caused by the junket tablet 
resembles the coagulation of milk caused by the rennin in 
the stomach. 

2. Rennin is the substance in our stomachs which prepares 
milk for digestion. 

3. Milk should never be swallowed hastily in gulps. 

4. Milk is & foody not merely a beverage. 



Digitized by 



Google 



62 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Lesson XIX 

The Dairy Industry (Reading) 

The very name of a dairy suggests the sweet breath of a cow, 
the taste of fresh buttermilk, the gay whir of a barrel chum, and 
the flushed cheeks of a busy dairy maid at work patting butter 
into balls. Perhaps the poetry of the dairy is much like that 
of the plow and the hoe — ^all in the mind of the looker-on. 
Still the dairy, if properly cared for, is always full of wholesome 
odors and agreeable suggestions. 

The dairy industry is practiced in all countries, from the 
frozen lands of the Laplanders to the sun-baked deserts of the 
Arabs. The Laplanders keep large herds of reindeer. These 
are the only animals that can subsist on the scanty vegetation 
of northern Europe; from the reindeer the Laplanders get their 
milk supply, using them as well for purposes of transportation. 
If more milk is obtained at any one time than can be used, it 
is frozen into bricks, which are kept till needed and then melted. 

The Arabs get their milk from their camels. In parts of 
Europe there are hundreds of people who use no other milk 
than that from goats, and in Asia there are tribes whose sole 
milk supply is furnished by mares. But in our country and in 
most other civilized countries, the cow furnishes the milk; 
indeed, the bulk of the world's milk and butter supply comes 
from this animal. 

In order to have a successful dairy industry, the climate must 
not be too severe at times, pasturage must be good and abundant 
and the soil must be of such a nature that grain crops for addi- 
tional food can be grown. In addition, one must not be too far 
from the markets in which there is a demand for the product, 
though this latter condition has been to a large extent overcome 
by the modem methods of rapid transit and refrigerator cars, 
for even milk may be produced several hundred miles from the 
city in which it is to be delivered fresh to the consumers each day. 



Digitized by 



Google 



MILK 63 

In many states of our country, ideal conditions for dairying 
exist and in these states enormous quantities of milk, butter, 
and cheese are produced. The states in the Mississippi Valley 
produce the largest amounts; after them come the North 
Atlantic States. 

In former days all the butter used was made on the farms or 
in the homes of those who were going to use it, and it is still 
true that much of the butter produced in our country is made on 
the farms. Any one who has visited a country store between 
the hours of ten o'clock in the morning and one o'clock in the 
afternoon, during which hour the farmers arrive in town in 
the greatest numbers, have seen them bringing their rolls or 
jars of butter into the stores. If one should take the trouble 
to examine the butter as it is brought in, one would find it to be 
of many different flavors, textures, and colors. Then the ques- 
tion would naturally come into one's mind as to why this should 
be so. 

The knowledge of how to> obtain good butter of uniform 
quality and color is not very old, it is true, and unfortunately, 
it has not yet become very wide-spread. It is a lack of knowl- 
edge and carelessness in the handling of the material which 
cause so much poor butter to be made. There is no food used 
by man which requires such care in production, handling, and 
distribution as do the dairy products, and no other foods are so 
easily ruined by carelessness. 

What should be the condition of the cows and of the bam in 
which they are kept? What precaution should be used during 
the milking and later? Why are all these precautions necessary? 
In making butter it is very important that the milk and cream 
should be kept sweet until one is ready to chum the butter. 
The delicate flavor of butter is produced by the action of certain 
bacteria, called lactic bacteria. (See Lesson XVII.) But why, 
one wonders, must the cream be kept sweet if the flavor of butter 
is produced by allowing the cream to sour? The reason is this: 
There is only one class of bacteria which can produce the desired 



Digitized by 



Google 



64 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

flavor in butter. All bacteria, when they grow, cause decay 
and give rise to certain flavors and odors in the food upon which 
they are feeding. If the milk or cream is allowed to sour in a 
haphazard way, the souring may be produced by lactic acid 
bacteria, but very often it is not, as the different and often 
repugnant flavors of the butter in the country store testify. 
In order always to be sure that one is getting the desired flavors 
in one's butter, one must know that the cream is ripened, as 
the souring process is called, by the right kind of bacteria. 

This can be determined only by the use of a starter. A 
starter is merely some soured skinuned milk containing only 
the lactic acid bacteria. Any one can make a starter by allow- 
ing some skim milk to sour. If it has a firm curd, breaking readily, 
when poured, into a creamy mass that contains no hard lumps 
and is not ropy nor stringy, and the flavor is mildly acid, the 
starter is good. When it will not break with a square fracture, 
or is ropy, or the whey gathers on its upper surface, harmful 
bacteria are present. The starter should not be allowed to 
become sharply acid. 

When some of this is placed in sweet cream, which should 
be at a temperature of from 70° to 80° F., the lactic acid bacteria 
begin to grow and multiply rapidly, and in a very little while, 
twenty-four hours or so, the cream should be ripened enough to 
chum. The amount of starter used and the temperature of the 
cream aid in determining this. Ordinarily one gallon of starter 
to ten of cream is used. One should not allow the ripening to 
continue too long, as then the delicate flavor and aroma are 
lost. The cream should be stirred two or three times while it is 
ripening, as this causes it to ripen more uniformly. 

The temperature of the cream when churned is a very impor- 
tant factor. If the temperature is too high, the butter will 
come quickly, but it will be soft and oily, and can not be worked; 
if too low, it will take too long for the butter to come. The 
butter should come in about thirty or thirty-five minutes. 
Experience has shown that in the ^arm summer months the 



Digitized by 



Google 



MILK 65 

cream should have a temperature of about 50° or 55° F. ; in winter 
it should be about 60° F. In order to get this temperature, the 
cream must be cooled by either ice or cold water during the last 
half of the ripening process. 

In churning butter, a steel or wooden barrel chum is the best 
to use. All wooden utensils used in handling butter should be 
very carefully scalded and rinsed. When the butter granules 
have reached the size of wheat kernels, churning should be 
stopped, the buttermilk drawn off, and a quantity of water 
two degrees cooler than the temperature of the cream when it 
was put into the chum should be added. Then the churn 
should be turned three times; the water should be drawn off, 
and the salt should be evenly sprinkled over the butter as it is 
gently tossed into layers by the paddles. When the salt has 
thus been added, the butter is ready to be removed to the work- 
ing table. 

Paddles, working table, and worker should be treated with 
hot water, then with cold, just as were the butter hands before 
they were used. Then the butter is worked across the width 
of the table and then turned over upon itself from the upper 
and lower ends. This is done two or three times, depending 
upon the temperature of the butter. One can determine when 
the butter is worked enough by lifting it up on one end with the 
paddle after having first made a gash across it to facilitate its 
bending. If it seems to want to cling together, it needs more 
working. When worked sufficiently it should be packed in 
jars, covered with cheesecloth, and set away in a sweet, clean, 
cool place. 

Much of the butter brought into the country store is not 
fit for use. The merchant buys it, but at a much lower price 
a pound than he receives for butter which he sells. He never 
pays cash for it, the person selling it always taking his pay 
in trade. 

Thus country merchants often accumulate large quantities 
of this imsalable butter. All this butter, together with poor 



Digitized by 



Google 



66 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



butter obtained from other sources, is shipped away to a factory, 
where it is renovated; the merchants who sell this butter to 
the factory receive a small price for it. At the factory. all 
these grades of poor butter are turned into immense vats where 
they are melted and washed with cold water or sometimes with 
a solution of caustic soda. After this the butter is allowed to 
stand until the curd and other materials settle. Then the oil 
is drawn oflF, rechurned with milk, salted, colored, and worked. 
It is sometimes sold as fresh butter, but this is illegal. It should 
be sold in packages which are plainly labeled "renovated" 
or "process butter," so that the purchaser may know what he 
is getting. Renovated butter has poor keeping qualities; 
it is better to use a cheaper fat, such as cotton-seed oil or one 
of the lard substitutes, for cooking purposes. 

Lesson XX 



Cream Puffs 



Materials used: 
Class Rule 

2 tb butter 

i c boiling water 

legg 

J c flour 

whipped cream 

lemon extract 

a little sugar 
Utensils needed: 

Omelet pan 

wooden spoon 

baking sheet 
Work to be done: 

1. Place the oven on to heat. 

2. Place the butter and water in the omelet pan and let 
them boil. 



Home Rule 
J c butter 
1 c boiling water 
4 eggs 
1 c flour 
i c thick cream 
lemon extract 
a little sugar 

utensils for measuring 
bowl for whipping cream 
egg beater 



Digitized by 



Google 



MILK 



67 



3. Add the flour all at once to the boiling butter and water, 
and stir vigorously. 

4. Add the egg gradually until all the ingredients are thor- 
oughly mixed. Beat them well. 

5. Butter the baking sheet. 

6. Drop by spoonfuls upon the sheet, one and one-half 
inches apart. 

7. Bake 30 minutes in a moderate oven. When the time is 
up, remove only one 
from the oven and place 
it on a plate. If it 
does not fall, it is done 
and the others may be 
taken out ; if it does fall, 
It is not done and the 
others should be left in 
longer. 

8. Make a cut in the 
side of each with a sharp knife to admit the whipped cream, which 
should be sweetened a little and flavored with lemon extract. 
Serving cream puffs : 

Cream puflfs may be served as dessert at dinner. They are 
enjoyed by all children and are easily digested, hence may be 
used at children's parties. They may be brought in on indi- 
vidual plates, or they may be served on individual plates at 
the table, the hostess serving them as she does all other desserts. 




Fig. 24.— Filling Cream Puffs 



Lesson XXI 

Serving Butter 

Butter is served at all meals except formal dinners. The 
butter should be molded into round balls or other suitable 
forms, but, before molding, the utensils must first be soaked in 



Digitized by 



Google 




68 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

boiling hot water for ten minutes and then chilled in ice-cold 
water. Unless this is done, the butter will stick to them. 
Wood is very porous and soaking it in hot water fills the pores 
and then the butter will not stick. They are placed in ice water 
to cool so they will not melt the butter. 

To form the balls, the butter must be very cold; dip the 
butter hands into the cold water after each mold has been made 
and before making a new one. If human 
hands are used, roll a piece of butter the 
size of a teaspoonful between them until 
a round ball is formed. 

The ball of butter is placed on the 
bread and butter plate, except at formal 
Butter Hands luncheons, when the small butter plate is 

preferred. Butter should be placed on 
the plate provided for it just a minute or two before the guests 
sit down. The remainder should be placed on the sideboard 
and when wanted should be served by the waitress with a 
silver pick. Butter dishes are made with a reservoir for 
melted ice underneath. The water resulting from the melt- 
ing ice should be emptied out before the butter is served the 
second time. 

Garnish a butter plate with a few clover leaves or blossoms, 
a sprig or two of cress or parsley, or with nasturtiums. 
Principles: 

Butter is composed largely of the fat of milk. The fat is 
present in the milk suspended in the form of countless numbers 
of tiny globules not more than T^tTo ^^ ^^ ^^^^ ^ diameter. 
They are lighter than the rest of the milk, hence, when milk 
stands, they rise to the surface in the form of cream. Each 
little globule is surrounded by a thin envelope of albumin. 
What besides milk contains albumin? Butter is obtained 
from cream by dashing it about in the chum. As the chum is 
turned, the cream falls from side to side and this causes the 
surrounding envelope of albumin to break from the little 



Digitized by 



Google 




MILK 69 

globules and these globules then adhere to each other, forming 
a lump of butter. 

When the lumps of butter become as large as peas, the butter- 
milk must be drained ofif. Some casein is usually skimmed off 
with the cream and it becomes entangled with the fat globules of 
the butter. But this is washed out with 
the buttermilk. The butter is then salted. 
The salt helps to keep the butter sweet, 
or, in other words, acts as a preservative. 

Butter contains on the average 11% 
water, 85% fat, 1% casein and albumin, 
and 3% salt and mineral matter. Is it Comj^rtionoTButter 
then a heat producer or a tissue builder? 
With what kind of foods is it most frequently used? Why? Cream 
and butter are the two most easily digested fat foods we have. 
Cleaning up: 

1. How should butter dishes be cleaned? 

2. How should the egg beater be cared for? The butter hands? 
What has been learned: 

1. Butter is the fat of milk. 

2. It is made by breaking the albumin covering of the 
globules, which then adhere to each other. 

3. Butter contains 85% fat, 11% water, 1% casein and 
albumin, and 3% salt and mineral matter. 

4. Cream and butter are the most easily digested of all 
the fats. 

Lesson XXn 

Oleomargarine (Reading) 

Instead of an attempt to deceive the public, the invention 
of oleomargarine was designed to help those who could not afford 
to buy butter. 

Napoleon III, who was ruler of France in 1870, wished to do 
something to ameliorate the condition of the very poor people. 



Digitized by 



Google 



70 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

of whom there were great numbers in that country. He offered 
a prize to the person who should invent a butter substitute 
which should taste and look like butter, be as wholesome and 
nutritious, and yet be cheaper. Many chemists competed for 
this prize, and it was won by Mage-Mouries, a native of France. 

America soon made use of the discovery. As early as 1886, 
laws were made by the government regarding the product. 
The first oleomargarine made here was manufactured in secret 
and sold as butter. This is where all the trouble started — 
trouble that has given oleomargarine a bad name, whereas it 
deserves a good one. It is perfectly legitimate for any one to 
make and sell oleomargarine as such, but when the manufac- 
turers sold it as butter for prices that were paid for butter, they 
were deceiving the public. The fraud was discovered, and the 
discovery resulted in so much talk and controversy that the 
United States government decided to make laws that would 
safeguard the purchaser and prevent the dealer from deceiving 
his patrons. A law was therefore made levying a tax of 
ten cents a pound on all oleomargarine which was colored to 
resemble butter. The product uncolored was taxed only one- 
fourth of a cent a pound. 

However, it was soon discovered that this did not protect 
the purchaser. It is easy to color a tub of oleomargarine. 
The coloring matter is the same that is used in coloring butter. 
This coloring matter is annatto, a vegetable dye obtained from 
Brazil. A dealer could buy any desired number of casks of 
uncolored oleomargarine and one cask of the colored article. 
The cask of colored oleomargarine he would place under his 
counter and from this he would sell to his customers either at 
the advanced price of colored oleomargarine or as butter, 
depending on the extent of his daring. 

When the tub of colored oleomargarine was emptied, he would 
quietly color the contents of one of the other tubs and then 
refill the emptied tub and sell this product, which had co«5t 
him much less than if he had bought it colored, for the same 



Digitized by 



Google 



MILK 71 

prices and as the same stuff as the original contents of the first 
tub. This deception was practiced by dealers all over the 
country and it was very difficult to detect their fraud. 

The government had then to devise new laws which would do 
away with all these petty frauds and really protect the consumer. 
Laws were made requiring the manufacturer to pack this pro- 
duct in a certain characteristic manner. According to the 
latest law, firkins, or tubs, used for oleomargarine must not have 
been used for anything. else previously. All firkins, tubs, or 
other wooden receptacles must not contain less than ten pounds 
and each package must be marked, stamped, and branded as 
required by the Biu-eau of Internal Revenue. Retailers must 
sell only from the original package and this must always be 
kept in plain view of the purchaser. Manufacturers may also 
put it up in one, two, or three-pound packages, which must be 
properly marked and labeled with government stamps. On the 
package must be printed exactly what the package contains. 
It is not safe to buy oleomargarine in bulk, as it is here that the 
greatest frauds are practiced. 

In addition to these regulations there are also certain other 
laws enforced. Manufacturers of oleomargarine must pay a 
license of six hundred dollars for the privilege of manufacturing 
it. The retailer who sells only the uncolored product must 
pay six dollars a year for the privilege; if he sells the colored 
product, he must pay forty-eight dollars a year. The whole- 
sale merchant who handles only the uncolored product pays 
two hundred dollars a year for the privilege; if he handles the 
colored product, he must pay six hundred dollars. But in spite 
of all these precautions, frauds often occur and the government 
officials are continually on the watch. Whenever a dealer is 
found selling the oleomargarine as butter, or otherwise prac- 
ticing deception, he is made to pay a suitable penalty. 

Seeing that this product caused so much controversy and 
trouble, our government further decided to find out of what 
materials it was composed. Several samples were bought at 



Digitized by 



Google 



72 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

diflferent places and were given to the government chemists to 
decide of what they were made. These chemists were able 
to compute the average composition of this article of food. 
The most important ingredient, because it is present in the 
greatest amount, is the oil. The average package of oleomar- 
garine contains 34.29 per cent of this oil. This oil is made in 
our great packing houses from the fats of animals, especially 
from beef suet. The suet is cooled and then cut up by machinery 
and cooked at a temperature of about 150° F. This tempera- 
ture melts the fat of the suet. This fat is drawn oflf into 
tierces and allowed to cool, thus becoming hardened. The 
oleo oil of this fat is obtained by a method of pressing which 
takes out the stearine, the other compound in the fat, leaving 
the clear liquid oleo oil. 

Milk was found to be present to the extent of 20.09 per cent. 
This is added to give a butter-like consistency and flavor to 
the product. Sixteen and twenty-seven hundredths per cent 
of a package of oleomargarine was found to be ''neutral." 
This is a high grade of lard, made in the packing plants of leaf 
fat only. It is a tasteless fat, without color or odor, free from 
acids and impurities and having a very smooth, fine grain. 
Cottonseed oil was found to be present to the extent of 14.36 
per cent. This oil resembles the other oil very much and has 
the added advantage of being very cheap. The other important 
constituents are, salt 7.33 per cent, cream 3.09 per cent, and 
butter 2.98 per cent. Traces of stearine, peanut oil, sesame oil, 
glucose, and eggs are also found. 

All these ingredients are placed in huge, steam-propelled 
chums where they are moved about until the particles of iat, 
from contact with the milk, acquire a resemblance to the glob- 
ules of fat in true butter. Then the whole mass is drained into 
large vats of ice-cold water where it remains until the globules 
of fat form into lumps like those found when butter is churned. 
These are then gathered into a huge wooden worker in which 
are many paddles worked by machinery. The salt is not added 



Digitized by 



Google 



MILK 



73 



with the other ingredients, but is worked into the mass at this 
stage. After working, the product is stamped into molds, 
or in other ways made ready to be sold. 

Scientists who have studied the matter of the wholesomeness 
of oleomargarine have not been able to discover that it is any 
less wholesome than butter. People who eat the fats of meat 
and salads made with salad oil eat the same fats that are the 
chief constituents of oleomargarine. But to the extent that 
wholesomeness is dependent upon flavor and aroma, to that 
extent oleomargarine is inferior to butter. No oleomargarine 
has yet been made which can equal butter in these 
qualities. 

European countries are the greatest consumers of oleo- 
margarine. There the population is very dense, the price of 
butter high, and many of the people very poor, so a great deal 
of the butter substitute is used. No evil results have been 
observed to result from its use. Holland is the greatest manu- 
facturer of this product. A single factory in Rotterdam 
produces as much of the product in one year as do all the factor- 
ies in the United States combined; but the ingredients of which 
it is made are manufactured chiefly in the United States. 

The term ''butterine" is but another name for oleomargarine. 





Lesson XXIII 






Welsh Rarebit 




Materials used: 








Class Rule 




Home Rule 




1 c grated cheese 


1 c milk 


i c grated cheese 


1 c milk 


1 tp butter 


3- egg 


1 tp butter 


legg 


tV tp mustard 


^ tp salt 


i tp mustard 


i tp salt 


pepper 


a pinch 


pepper 


1 tp soda 


salted crackers or 


of soda 


crackers or 




toast 




toast 








Digitized b] 


/GooqIc 



74 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



Utensils needed: 

Measuring cup grater 

saucepan or double boiler knife 

teaspoon Dover beater 

tablespoon bowls 

Work to be done: 

1. Grate the cheese on a coarse grater. 

2. Measure the cheese without packing. 

3. Beat the egg. 

4. Melt the butter in a saucepan or upper part of the double 
boiler, letting it melt and rim all over the bottom. If the 
saucepan is used, place an asbestos mat under it. 




Fig. 27. — Grating Cheese. Chafing dish on a tray 

5. Add the grated cheese and soda, stirring constantly until 
the cheese is melted. 

6. Add the beaten egg diluted with the milk, and cook until 
it is thick and smooth Uke a custard, stirring constantly 
while cooking. 

7. Add the seasonings. 

8. Pour the mixture over the cracker and serve at once. 
Serving: 

This dish, because it can be made in the chafing dish, is much 
used for Sunday evening supper or for lunch later in the 
evening. 



Digitized by 



Google 



MILK 75 

Finger privileges at the table: 

When Welsh rarebit is served informally and crackers are used, 
they are taken in the fingers to eat, but otherwise forks are used. 
Principles: 

Cheese; when made of unskimmed milk, consists of lumps of 
protein surrounded by envelopes of fat. The fat makes it very 
difficult for the digestive juices to get at the protein; but the 
finer the cheese is divided, the more easily is digestion a.ccom- 
plished. This is thje reason why cheese is more easily digested 
when it is finely divided and dissolved and cooked with other 
foods. In eating cheese, why should we be careful to chew it well? 

Chemists have discovered that if soda is added to cheese, the 
latter will dissolve more readily, making it more digestible. 
Less than half a teaspoonful of soda will dissolve a quarter of 
a pound of grated cheese. 

When the cheese is melted, it is sufficiently cooked. Long 
cooking at a high temperature makes it tough, stringy, and 
indigestible. What effect does hard cooking have on the pro- 
tein of the eggs? on the casein of the milk? 

Cheese has no starch in it. Therefore it should be used with 
a starchy food to make it a perfect dish. When used in com- 
bination with milk and eggs, it makes a very nutritious dish 
that can well take the place of meat in the diet. Why? Can 
such a dish properly be called a composite dish? 
Cleaning up: 

Follow directions given in preceding lessons. 
What has been learned: 

1. Cheese is a protein food. Long, hard cooking renders it 
tough and stringy. 

2. In order to be digestible, cheese should be finely divided. 

3. Soda causes cheese to dissolve more rapidly. 

4. Cheese should be used in combination with a starchy 
food, such as crackers or bread. 

5. Cheese in combination with milk and eggs is a substitute 
for meat in the diet. 



Digitized by 



Google 



76 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 
Lesson XXIV 



Cheese Fondue 
Materials used: 
Class Rule 
2 tb scalded milk 
2 tb soft bread crumbs 
4 tb cheese 



Home Rule 
1 c scalded milk 

1 c soft stale bread crumbs 

2 c mild cheese 
1 tb butter 
i tp salt 

3 eggs 



bowls 

buttered baking dish 

ramekin 



i tp butter 

t*^ tp salt 

i tb egg, beaten 
Utensils needed: 

Measuring cup Dover beater 

teaspoon double boiler 

tablespoon wire whip 

knife platter 

Work to be done: 

1. Scald the milk in the double boiler. 

2. Break the bread into small pieces. 

3. Cut the cheese into small pieces. 

4. Add the bread, cheese, butter, and salt to the milk. 

5. Break the egg, separating the yolk from the white. 

6. Beat the yolk till it is thick and lemon-colored. Add this 
to the milk mixture. 

7. Beat the white till stiff and dry. 

8. Carefully fold the beaten white into the mixture. 

9. Turn the whole into a buttered baking dish or ramekin, 
setting this in a pan containing water. Why? 

10. Bake the fondue in a moderate oven. Test it by inserting 
a silver knife. What should be the appearance of the knife when 
the fondue is done? What other dish is tested in this manner? 
Serving: 

Because of the large amount of protein contained in the 
cheese and eggs, this dish may be used as the principal dish at 
luncheon or it may take the place of meat at dinner. It may 



Digitized by 



Google 



MILK 77 

be served by either the host or hostess, as preferred, from the 
dish in which it was baked. It is eaten with the fork. 
Principles: 

Why is the cheese combined with bread crumbs? How will 
the cheese be dissolved in the dish? What effect does dissolving 
cheese have upon its food value? 

A dish containing milk, eggs, and cheese in combination is 
very similar to custard. Hence, in baking the fondue, the dish 
containing it should be set in a pan containing water. The 
baking should take place with the application of a gentle heat. 
Why? A fondue, like a custard, must not be heated too long or 
it will become watery. 

The food value of cheese is great. A pound of cheese contains 
about three times as much protein and twice as much fat as 
a pound of beef. When used with some starchy food, it may 
well form the main part of a meal. Bread, macaroni, and 
potatoes are regarded as the best forms of starch with which 
to eat it. 
Cleaning up: 

What removes discoloration resulting from baking? 
What has been learned: 

1. Cheese fondue is a composite dish. 

2. It is similar to custard in composition, and requires the 
same precautions in cooking. 

♦ 
Additional Recipe 

Cheese Souffle (F. M. Farmer) 

2 tb butter i c grated cheese 

3 tb flour yolks of 3 eggs 
J c scalded milk whites of 3 eggs 

J tp salt a few grains of cayenne 

Met the butter, add the flour, and when well mixed, add scalded milk 
gradually. Then add salt, cayenne, and cheese. Remove from the fire; 
add yolks of eggs beaten until lemon-colored. Cool the mixture, and fold 
in whites of eggs beaten until stiff and dry. Pour into a buttered baking 
dish and bake 20 minutes in a slow oven. Serve immediately. 



Digitized by 



Google 



EGGS 



Lesson XXV 



Curried Eggs 



Home Rule 
3 hard-boiled eggs 
2 tb butter 
2 tb flour 
J tp salt 

I tp curry powder 
i tp pepper 
1 c hot milk 

wooden spoon 
double boiler 



Materials used: 
Class Rule 

i egg, hard-boiled 6 nara-bouea eggs \ 

J tb butter 

^ tb flour 

a pinch of salt 

I tp curry powder 

a few grains of pepper 

i c hot milk 
Utensils needed: 

Granite pan 

utensils for measuring 
Work to be done: 

1. Melt the butter. 

2. Add the flour and seasonings. Mix. 

3. Add the hot milk and let the mixture boil. 

4. Cut the eggs in eighths lengthwise and reheat in 
the sauce. 

Serving: 

This is a good way to warm over cold boiled eggs. The dish 
may be used either at breakfast or luncheon. They are served 
from the table by the host or hostess either on the plate or in 
individual dishes. 
Principles: 

The part of the egg which we eat contains 73.7% water, 
14.8% protein, 10.5% fat and 1% mineral matter, or ash. 
A cooked egg does not vary in composition from the uncooked. 

78 



Digitized by 



Google 



EGGS 



79 




Fig. 28. — (1) Average Composition of 

Edible Part of Egg. (2) ViOiite and 

Yolk of Egg 



The* yolk contains considerable fat and ash, while the white is 
practically free from fat and has a very small ash content. 
The white contains more than twice as much water as the yolk 
and a little less protein. The water is present in such a way 
that it is not visible, but 
it is combined with the 
other constituents so that 
the whole food is more or 
less moist or juicy. Eggs 
are not quite so concen- 
trated a food as is cheese, 
but they are more concen- 
trated than milk or oysters. 
Their water content is 
about the same as that of 
lean meat. 

Many dietary studies made in the United States have shown 
that eggs even at 22 cents a dozen are a cheaper source of 
nutrient than are sirloin steak or chops or any of the other more 
expensive cuts of meat. Because of the ease with which they 
are properly cooked, the ease and rapidity with which they are 
digested by the human body, the variety they give to the diet, 
and their nutritive value, eggs should be used quite freely in 
our meals when their price does not exceed 25 cents a dozen. 
Cleaning up: 

Soak the dishes in cold water, then wash in hot, sudsy water, 
and rinse well. 
What has been learned: 

1. Eggs contain 73.7% water; 14.8% protein; 10.5% fat, 
and 1% mineral matter. 

2. The white contains nearly twice as much water, less pro- 
tein^ and much less mineral matter than the yolk. 

3. The yolk is rich in fat, protein, and mineral matter. 

4. Eggs below 25 cents a dozen are a cheaper source of 
nutrients than expensive cuts of meat. 



Digitized by 



Google 



PASTRY 





Lesson XXVI 




Lemon Pie 


Materials used: 




Class Rule 


Home Rule 


6 tb pastry flour 


1^ c pastry flour 


1 tp salt 


1 tp salt 


li tb shortening 


4 to 5 tb shortening 


cold water 


cold water (about 4J tb) - 


Filling: 




6 tb sugar 


f c sugar 


1| tb cornstarch 


3 tb cornstarch 


6 tb boiling water 


1 c boiling water 


1 egg yolk 


2 egg yolks 


1| tb lemon juice 


3 tb lemon juice 


grated rind of | lemon grated rind of one lemon 


i tp butter 


1 tp butter 


Meringue: 




1 egg white 


2 egg whites 


2 tb sugar 


i c sugar 


Utensils needed: 




Measuring cup 


bowls grater 


sifter 


rolling pin pie tin 


teaspoon 


case knife molding board 


tablespoon 


double boiler 


Work to be done: 




1. Mix and sift the flour and salt. 


2r Chop f tb lard into the flour, reserving the rest. 


3. Add the cold water 


, using the knife to mix. Add the water 


drop by drop towards the last. 

80 




Digitized by GoOQie 



PASTRY 



81 



4. Pat and roll the paste on a slightly floured board until 
about I inch thick. 

5. Spread or dot the remaining shortening over the paste 
and sprinkle lightly with flour. 

6. Either fold it up or roll it like a jelly roll. 

7. Pat and roll it again; fold it up or roll. 

8. Roll it out I inch thick, keeping it as circular as possible. 

9. Cover the plate or pie tin with the paste, being careful 
that there are no bubbles underneath. 




Fig. 29.— Making a Fluted Rim 

10. Make a raised or thickened rim. 

11. Bake the paste in a moderate oven. 

Filling 

1. Mix the cornstarch and sugar. 

2. Add the boiling water and boil in a double boiler, stirring 
constantly until it is thickened. Add the butter. 

3. Beat the egg yolks till they are thick and lemon-colored. 

4. Wash the lemon thoroughly with a vegetable brush. 

5. Grate the yellow part of the rind off. 



Digitized by 



Google 



82 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

6. Combine the egg yolk, lemon rind, and lemon juice with 
the thickened mixture (which has been removed from the fire). 

7. Allow the mixture to cool. 

8. Fill the pie crust with the mixture. 

9. Beat the egg white until it is stifif and dry. 

10. Beat in the sugar. Add a little flavoring, if desired. 




Fig. 30. — Making a Fancjr Design with Pastry Bag, and 
Spreading Meringue with a Spoon 

11. Cover the pie with meringue: (a) Put it on smoothly, 
(b) Drop it on by spoonfuls, making a rough surface, (c) Or 
put a part of it on smoothly, and press the rest through a 
pastry tube, putting it on in fancy designs. 

12. Bake the pie in a slow oven till the meringue is delicately 
browned. 

Serving: 

Pie is used as a dessert. If served from the table, it is 
placed in front of the hostess, who takes out each piece with a 
pie knife and places it on a dessert plate to be served to each 
person at the table. 



Digitized by 



Google 



PASTRY 83 

Principles: 

Pastry flour makes a crust that is more tender than one 
made with bread flour. It is more starchy than bread flour, 
but has less gluten, the substance in. flour which gives it its 
elasticity; therefore, more pastry flour must be used than 
bread flour. 

The addition of some of the shortening after the water has 
been added makes the crust more flaky and light, as more air 
is incorporated in the process of rolling out the paste. Why was 
the cornstarch mixed with the sugar before it was added to the 
water? In what other foods have the starch and sugar been 
added in the same way? 

In adding the mixture to the egg, cooking is not necessary, 
as there is enough heat present to cook the egg sufiiciently. 
How should an egg mixture be cooked? Why should the 
meringue be baked in a slow oven? Unlike the omelet, a 
meringue does not fall when cooled. A meringue is diflferent 
from an omelet in that it contains no other ingredient but the 
egg white and sugar. An omelet is made light just as much 
by the steam as by the air. In a meringue no steam or other 
agent is present, hence there is nothing to pull down the delicate 
albumen walls when cooled. 
Cleaning up: 

Scrub the grater with a vegetable brush. 
What has been learned: 

1 . iPastry flour has more starch and less gluten than bread flour. 

2. More pastry flour must be used in a given recipe than 
bread flour. 

3. Addition of shortening to paste after the water has been 
added makes the crust more tender. 

Additional Recipe 

Filling: Chocolate Pie 

} c grated chocolate 2 tb butter 5 tb cornstarch 

1 c hot water 1 c sugar 2 egg yolks 



Digitized by 



Google 



84 DOMESTIC SCIENCE. 

Lesson XXVn 
Mince Pie 



Materials used: 

Filling 
Class Rule Home Rule 

i c chopped apple 3 qt chopped apple 

J c seeded raisins, chopped 2 lb raisins 

1 tb suet 1 lb suet 

} tb molasses 1 c sorghum molasses 

i tb boiled cider 1 qt boiled cider 

I c currants 2 lb currants 

weak vinegar; grape juice or 2 lemons, rind and juice 

other fruit juice may be used 3 c sugar 

i c sugar 2 tb cinnamon 

i tp cinnamon J tb cloves 

I tp cloves I tp allspice 

I nutmeg, grated 1 lb citron 

I tp mace 2 lb lean beef 

J tp salt 2 tb salt 
i c chopped meat (cooked) 
moistened with meat stock or water 
6 tb jelly 

Paste 

Flour, salt, shortening, water. How much of each? (See 
Lesson XXVI.) 

Utensils needed: 

Chopping bowl salt spoon 

chopping knife pie tin 

tablespoon molding board and rolling pin 

teaspoon bowl 

knives sifter 

measuring cup nutmeg grater 



Digitized by 



Google 



PASTRY 85 

Work to be done: 

1. Wash, peel, core, and slice the apples. 

2. Seed the raisins. 

3. Chop the apples and raisins. 

4. Run the meat and suet through a meat grinder. 

5. Mix all the ingredients together, moistening with meat- 
stock. 

6. Cook the mince meat for fifteen minutes. 

7. Make a plain paste and line the pie tin. Brush the 
paste with egg white. Set it in the oven a moment to glaze it. 

8. Turn in the mincemeat filling. 

9. Brush the edge of the crust with cold water. 

10. Cover the pie with the second crust, which has been 
gashed to allow for the escape of steam. 

11. Bake the pie in a slow oven. 

12. If there is any mincemeat left, heat it gradually, stirring 
often. Let it simmer an hour, then store it in fruit jars in the 
same manner as canned fruit. 

Serving: 

Tradition has made this a dish used especially at Thanks- 
giving and Christmas. At these times it is often served in 
conjunction with pmnkpin pie. When this is done, a small 
piece of each should be served on the same plate. A piece of 
cheese may also be added. 
Finger privileges at the table: 

Cheese is taken with the fingers. 
Principles: 

What are the sugar-supplying ingredients of mince pie? 
the f atnsupplying ingredients? the starch-supplying ingredients? 
What supplies protein? What supplies acid? Can mince pie 
be called a composite dish? 

The meat which is used in mincemeat must be chopped very 
fine before it is added to the remaining ingredients. Because 
of this fact, tougher parts of meat may be used, since the tough 
tissues are cut apart when the meat is ground. Meat from 



Digitized by 



Google 



86 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

the neck is often used for mincemeat, though the lower part of 
the round, or other tough cuts may be used equally well. Such 
meat has the added advantage of being comparatively cheap. 

When cooking tough cuts of meat for mincemeat, it is well to 
remember the rule for cooking eggs. Place the meat in boiling 
water, then lower the temperature so that it will stay just below 
the boiling point. It should be kept at this temperature until 
the meat is perfectly tender, which will be for hours if the piece 
is very tough. A fireless cooker furnishes the most economical 
method of cooking such meat. The long slow cooking at low 
temperature below the boiling point will dissolve the tough 
connective tissues and the low temperature also prevents the 
hardening of the proteins which are contained in the meat. 

The sugar and spices which are added to the mincemeat 
not only give it flavor, but also aid in preserving it. Any food 
containing quite large quantities of sugar and spices should be 
cooked in a slow oven, for they are likely to bum. 
Cleaning up: 

Soak the chopping bowl in cold water. After it has been 
washed and rinsed, it should be set in the sun to dry before it is 
put away. 

Pour boiling water into the meat grinder. Take it apart, 
unscrewing the blades; thoroughly wash and dry them. 

The grater can be cleaned by using a brush. 
What has been learned: 

1. Sugar and spices in a food act as preservatives. 

2. Foods containing sugar and spices must be cooked by a 
slow fire, for they bum easily. 

3. Cheap, tough cuts of meat are best for mincemeat. 

4. Tough cuts for mincemeat should be cooked in water 
just below the boiling point. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CAKES 



Lesson XXVm 



Walnut Cake 



Materials used: 
Class Rule 

2 tp butter 
i c sugar 
f of egg yolk 
i c milk 
^ c flour 

f tp baking powder 
J egg white 

3 tb walnut meats 
Utensils needed: 

2 bowls 
sieve 

measuring cups 
knife 
tablespoon 
Work to be done: 

1. Put the oven on to heat. 

2. Butter the baking tin. 

3. Cream the butter, add the sugar and cream till the sugar 
is dissolved. 

4. Break the eggs, separating the whites and yolks. 

5. Beat the yolks and add them to the creamed sugar and 
butter. Beat. 

6. Add the milk and flour alternately, sifting the baking 
powder in with the last of the flour. Why? 

7. Cut or chop the nut meats and add them. 

87 



Home Rule 
i c butter 

1 c sugar 

3 egg yolks 

i c milk 

If c flour 

2^ tp baking powder 

2 egg whites 

f c walnut meats 

teaspoon 
stirring spoon 
Dover egg beater 
baking tin 



Digitized by 



Google 



88 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

8. Beat the egg whites till stiff and dry. 

9. Fold the egg whites into the batter carefully. Why? 

10. Fill the buttered tin two-thirds full of batter. 

11. Test the oven with the paper test for cake, that is, white 
paper should brown in 5 minutes. 

12. Bake the cake for forty-five minutes. Test it and remove 
it when done. 

Serving: 

For the service of cakes refer to the lessons on cake-making in 
Book One. 

Cake is taken with the fingers unless it has a soft or sticky 
frosting, in which case a fork is used. 
Principles: 

What is the effect of creaming and beating? Why should egg 
whites be folded in carefully? How and why should the tin 
be buttered? Why should the tin be filled only two-thirds 
full? How can one tell when the oven is hot enough for butter 
cake? ■ When is a cake done? In what way does the addition 
of the walnut meats add to the value of the cake? 
Cleaning up: 

1. Use cold or warm water for rinsing batter dishes. Why 
not hot water? 

2. Use cold water for rinsing the egg dish. Why not hot 
water? 

3. Observe the usual care in washing and rinsing towels and 
cloths and putting away dishes. 

What has been learned: 

The butter-cake method of mixing ingredients, explained in 
Book One, is reviewed in this lesson. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CAKES 

Lesson XXIX 

Spanish Cake with Caramel Frosting 



8» 



Materials used: 
Class Rule 
2 tp butter 
i e sugar 
^ ^g yolk 
2 tp milk 
i c flour 

f tp baking powder 
4 tp cinnamon 
i egg white 



Home Rule 
i c butter 

1 c sugar 

2 egg yolks 
i c milk 
If c flour 

3 tp baking powder 

1 tp cinnamon 

2 egg whites 



Frosting 



IJ c brown sugar 

f c thin cream or milk 

^ tb butter 

measuring cups 

spoons 

knife 

layer cake tins 



6 tb brown sugar 

3 tb thin cream or milk 

J tb butter 
Utensils needed: 

Pan 

2 bowls 

saucepan 

sieve 

Dover egg beater 
Work to be done: 

1. Put the oven on to heat. 

2. Butter the cake tins. 

3. Cream the butter, add the sugar, and cream till the sugar 
dissolves. 

4. Beat the egg yolk, add to the mixture, and beat again. 

5. Mix and sift the dry ingredients and add alternately with 
the milk. 

6. Beat the egg whites till they are stiff and dry. 

7. Fold the egg whites into the batter. 



Digitized by 



Google 



90 DOMESTIC SCIENCE , 

8. Put the batter into the tins. 

9. Bake the cake in the oven at the right temperature for 
butter cake. 

Frosting: 

1 . Mix all the ingredients for the frosting in the granite saucepan 
and boil them till the mixture forms a soft ball in cold water. 

2. When boiled enough, remove the pan from the fire and 
beat the frosting till of the right consistency to spread. 

3. Remove the layers of cake from the pans as soon as taken 
from the oven; to do so, invert the cake in the pan. If the 
cake sticks, loosen the edges with a knife. 

4. Place one layer on a large plate. 

5. With a broad knife, first dipped in water, spread a layer 
of the caramel frosting over the layer. 

6. Place a second layer of cake upon the first, and spread 
frosting over this. 

7. Spread the frosting on the sides of the cake also. 
Serving: 

The service of this cake is the same as that of other cakes. 
Principles: 

Cake should not be hurried from the pan. If the cake sticks, 
loosen the edges with a knife and let the pan rest on its side till 
the weight of the cake itself loosens it. Layer cake tins often 
have an arrangement for loosening the cake. 

In frosting cake it is necessary to work rapidly, as the frosting, 
when it reaches the spreading stage, hardens very rapidly. 
The frosting should be smooth and evenly spread on the cake. 
Wetting the knife aids in getting the frosting on smoothly and 
quickly. If a cooked frosting is used, it may be spread on a 
cake while the latter is hot or after it becomes ,cold. If the 
frosting is uncooked, it is best to have the cake at least warm. 
Cleaning up: 

1. Rinse and wash batter dishes in the usual way. 

2. Rinse and wash the frosting dish as all sugary dishes 
should be washed. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CAKES 



91 



What has been learned: 

1. Method of making caramel frosting. 

2. Cakes should not be hurried from the pan if they stick; 
they should be removed as soon as possible after taking them 
from the oven. 

3. Cooked frostings may be spread on warm or cold cake. 

4. Uncooked frosting spreads best on warm cake. 

Supplementary Recipe 



Materials used: ^''^ ^^ 


i c butter 


2i tp baking powder 


1 c sugar 


3 egg whites 


i c milk 


i tp lemon extract 


li c flour 


f tp vanilla 


Use the butter-cake method of combining. 


Lesson XXX. 


Chocolate Fruit Cake 


Materials used: 




Class Rtde 


Home Rule 


4 tp butter 


1 c butter 


4 tb sugar 


1 cup sugar 


1 tb cocoa 


I c brea,kfast cocoa 


1 egg yolk 


3 egg yolks 


2 tb cold water 


i c cold water 


5 tb bread flour 


li c bread flour 


1 tp baking powder 


3 tp baking powder 


i tp cinnamon 


1 tp cinnamon 


tV tp salt 


i tp salt 


4 tp cherries 


1 c candied cherries 


4 tp chopped seeded raisins 


1 c chopped seeded raisins 


4 tp chopped walnut meats 


1 c chopped walnut meats 


1 egg white 


3 egg whites 


i tp vanilla 


1 tp vanilla 




Digitized by VjOO 



92 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Utensils needed: 

Pan spoons 

2 bowls knife 

Dover egg beater deep baking pans 

measuring cups paper and scissors 

Work to be done: 

1. Put the oven on to heat. 

2. Turn the baking tin bottom side up. Fit a piece of white 
paper over the bottom and sides; turn the pan over and fit 
the paper into it. Butter the paper and the edges of the pan. 

3. Cream the butter, add the sugar, and cream till it i& 
dissolved. 

4. Add the cocoa to the creamed butter and sugar and mix. 

5. Beat the egg yolks and add to the mixture. 

6. Add water. 

7. Mix and sift dry ingredients and add to the mixture, 
beating thoroughly. 

8. Cut up the raisins and nut meats; dredge them (sprinkle 
flour upon) and add them and the floured cherries to the batter.. 

9. Beat the egg whites till they are stiff and dry. 

10. Fold in the egg whites and add vanilla. 

11. Put the batter into the pan and bake about an hour in a 
moderate oven. 

Serving: 

Rich cakes like this should be used but sparingly in the diet. 
This cake is especially nice served with vanilla ice cream. 
Principles: 

What method of combining ingredients was used in making 
this cake? Sometimes a paper is fitted into the bottom of a 
cake pan; there will then be no danger of the cake's sticking to 
the pan; it can easily be loosened from the edges of the pan 
with a knife, so that when inverted, the cake, paper and all, 
will fall out. Removing the paper from the cake is an easy 
matter. The paper helps to keep the bottom of the cake 
from burning during the long slow baking. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CAKES 93 

The fruit is heavier than the remainder of the batter, hence 
it tends to fall to the bottom during the first part of the baking. 
The flour with which it is dredged serves to anchor it in the 
batter. 

A cake of this kind requires long, slow baking because of the 
presence of spices and fruits, which bum easily. 

^ White Mountain Cream 

Materials needed: 

Class Rule Home Rule 

§ c sugar 1 c sugar 

5 tb boiling water i c boiling water 

i egg white 1 egg white 

a few drops vanilla 1 tp vanilla or i tb lemon 

juice 

Utensils needed: 

Dover egg beater granite pan measuring cup 

bowl wooden spoon 

Work to be done: 

1. Place the water and sugar in the granite pan and bring 
them slowly to the boiling point, stirring all the time with the 
wooden spoon. 

2. Let the syrup boil gently, without stirring, until it spins 
a long slender thread when a spoon is dipped into it and held up. 

3. In the meantime, place the white of egg in the bowl and 
beat stiff, using the Dover egg beater. 

4. When the syrup threads, pour gradually over the egg white 
and beat all the time. 

5. Continue beating until the frosting is thick enough to spread. 
Caution: 

1. If frosting is not beaten long enough, it will nm. 

2. If frosting is beaten too long, it will not be smooth; in 
the latter case, add a drop or two of boiling water and stir. 

3. If nuts or candied fruits are to be used on the frosting, 
add them before the frosting has had time to become firm. 



Digitized by 



Google 



94 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

This frosting, when properly made, is soft inside, has a bright, 
glossy surface, and does not stick nor adhere to the knife 
when cut. 
Cleaning up: 

Observe the usual rules for batter, dishes. 
What has been learned: 

1. Papering tins keeps cake from sticking and burning and 
makes the greasing of the tin unnecessary. 

2. Fruit when added to cake batter should be dredged with 
flour to keep it from settling to the bottom of the cake. 

3. Fruit cakes require long, slow cooking to keep the spices 
and fruits from burning. 

Supplementary Recipes 

Golden Spice Cake 

} c butter 1 tp cinnamon 

J c brown sugar i tp soda 

1 egg i tp cloves 

4 egg yolks I tp grated nutmeg 

i c molasses a few grains cayenne 

i c milk a few gratings of lemon rind 

2i c flour 
Use butter-cake method of combining. Bake in a moderate oven 
one hour, and cover with White Mountain cream. 

Dark Fruit Cake 

} c butter i c milk 

f c brown sugar 2 c flour 
f c raisins, seeded and cut in pieces i tp soda 

} c currants 1 tp cinnamon 

i c citron, thinly sliced and i tp allspice 

cut in strips i tp mace 

i c molasses i tp cloves 

2 eggs } tp lemon eictract 

Use butter-cake method of combining; bake one and one-quarter 
hours in deep pans. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CAKES 

Lesson XXXI 

Cambridge Gingerbread 



95 



Materials used: 

Class Rule 

1 scant tb butter 

2 scant tb boiling water 
2| tb molasses 

3 tb egg 
i c flour 
J tp soda 
tV tp salt 
J tp cinnamon 
i tp ginger 
■^ tp cloves 

Utensils needed: 

Pan 

2 bowls 

sieve 

measuring cups 
Work to be done: 

1. Put the oven on to heat. 

2. Butter a shallow pan. 

3. Add the butter to the boiling water to melt it. 

4. Add the molasse? to the water mixture. 

5. Beat the egg well and add it to the water mixture. 

6. Mix and sift all the dry ingredients. 

7. Add the dry ingredients, beating well. 

8. Pour the batter into the buttered pan. 

9. Bake the gingerbread in a moderate oven. 
Serving: 

Gingerbread is served hot. By some it is used as cake, by 
others as bread; in the latter case it is served with butter. It 
is less rich than other cakes. 



Home Rule 
i c butter 
f c boiling water 
1 c molasses 
legg 
2f c flour 
1§ tp soda 
i tp salt 
1 tp cinnamon 
1 tp ginger 
i tp cloves 

spoons 

Dover egg beater 

baking pan 



Digitized by 



Google 



% DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Principles: 

Molasses, because it contains a larger amount of acid than 
isour milk, requires a larger amount of soda to neutralize the 
acid. In this cake the soda not only neutralizes the acid, but 
it is also the leavening agent. 

Cake containing spices and molasses must be baked in a 
moderate oven because spices and molasses bum easily. 
Cleaning up: 

1. Rinse the sticky molasses dishes in hot water. Cold water 
hardens the molasses and makes it harder to remove, but hot 
water dissolves it. 
What has been learned: 

1. Molasses contains more acid than does ordinary sour milk. 

2. Spices and molasses bum readily, so cakes containing 
spices «hould be baked slowly in a moderate oven. 

3v Cold water hardens molasses, therefore it should not be 
used ifor rinsing utensils which have molasses on .them; hot 
water ishould be used. 

Lesson xxxii 

•»ir J. -4 1 J Lady Fingers 

Idatenals used: 

Class Rule Home Rule 

1 egg white 3 egg whites 

If tb powdered sugar (generous) J c powdered sugar 

1 egg yolk 2 egg yolks 
If tb flour (generous) | c flour 

a pinch of salt | tp salt 

a few drops of vanilla J tp vanilla 
XJtensils needed: 

2 bowls plate 

Dover egg beater large baking tin 

egg whip white paper 

spoons pastry bag and tubes 

ieve fork 

Digitized by CjOOQ IC 



CAKES 97 

Work to be done: 

1. Put the oven on to heat. 

2. Beat the egg yolk till it is thick and lemon-colored. 

3. Beat the whites till they are stiff and dry. (Beat with 
the egg whip on a large plate.) 

4. Add the sugar gradually to the beaten whites and con- 
tinue beating. 

5. Add the yolks and flavoring to the whites. 

6. Sift the salt and flour together and cut and fold them 
into the egg. 

7. Put the batter into the pastry bag. 

8. Cover the bottom of the pan with the paper and do 
not butter the paper. 

9. With the pastry bag make shapes about five inches long 
and one inch wide on the unbuttered paper. 

10. Sprinkle powdered sugar over the batter. 

11. Test the oven as for sponge cake by using a small piece 
of white paper. It should turn the paper light brown in five 
minutes. 

12. Put the cakes in the oven and bake about eight minutes. 

13. With a knife, remove the cakes from the paper when they 
are taken from the oven. 

Serving: 

Lady fingers are often served with frozen desserts; they may 
be used for lining molds that are to be filled with whipped 
cream mixtures; they are very nice if put together in pairs 
with whipped cream between them. 
Finger privileges at the table: 

When served dry, lady fingers are taken with the fingers. 
Principles: 

This batter is a typical sponge-cake batter because it contains 
no liquid, shortening, nor leavening agent except the egg. Why 
must the egg white be beaten until stiff and dry? What other 
foods have been made light wholly or in part by beating air into 
^g white? How does air make the batter light in baking? 



Digitized by 



Google 



98 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Why does this cake not fall when cooled? The greatest caution 
must be taken in mixing ingredients and in cutting them into 
the beaten egg whites; the cells of albumen formed by beating 
the air into the egg are the only leavening agent; if broken 
down, the air will escape and the cake must fall. 

Tins should not be greased for sponge-cake batters. 
What has been learned: 

1. Sponge-cake batters contain no liquid, shortening, nor 
leavening agent except egg. 

2. Great care must be taken in mixing sponge-cake batters. 

3. Tins should not be greased for sponge-cake batters. 

4. The oven test for sponge cake. 

Supplementary Recipes 
Sponge Drops 

The lady finger batter may be dropped from the tip of a spoon on unbut- 
tered paper, sprinkled with sugar, and baked eight minutes in a moderate 
oven. 
Materials: Sunshine Cake 

10 egg whites 6 egg yolks 1 c flour 

1} c powdered sugar 1 tp lemon extract 1 tp cream of tartar 

Use sponge-cake method of combining ingredients. 

Lesson XXXm 

- - ^ . - J Jelly Roll 

Materials used: 

Class Rule Home Rule 

1 egg 3 eggs 

i c sugar 1 c sugar 

i tb milk ^ tb milk 

i tp baking powder 1 tp baking powder 

tV tp salt J tp salt 

J c flour 1 c flour 

i tb melted butter 1 tb melted butter 

jelly jelly 



Digitized by 



Google 



CAKES 



99 



measuring cups 
dripping pan 
paper and scissors 



spoons 
knife 



Utensils needed: 

2 bowls 

sieve 

Dover egg beater 
Work to be done: 

1. Line the bottom of the dripping pan with paper, and 
butter the paper and the sides of the pan. 

2. Put the oven on 
to heat over a low fire. 

3. Beat the egg 
white stiff and dry. 

4. Combine the 
yolks with the sugar 
and milk and beat well. 

5. Fold the whites 
in carefully. 

6. Fold in the sifted 
dry ingredients next. 

7. Add the melted 
butter last. 

8. Pour the batter into the pan, spreading evenly. 

9. Bake the batter in a very moderate oven for about 
twelve minutes. 

10. When baked, take the cake from the oven and turn it 
onto a paper sprinkled with powdered sugar. 

11. Take the paper from the bottom of the cake, and quickly 
cut a thin strip from the sides and end of the cake. 

12. Spread quickly with the jelly and roll. 

13. Roll the cake in the paper so that it will keep its shape. 
Serving: 

This makes a very nice luncheon or picnic cake. It is used 
in any of the ways in which the other cakes are used. 
Principles: 

The sponge-cake method of mixing the ingredients is used 
here. How does it differ from the butter-cake method of com- 




Fig. 31.— Rolling Cake in Paper 



Digitized by 



Google 



100 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

bining ingredients? The batter is not fine-grained because it is 
not beaten. Are butter-cake batters fine-grained? Why? 
Why is not sponge cake beaten? Why does an omelet fall when 
cooled? The gluten of the flour gives stiffness to the walls of 
the air cells of a well-baked sponge cake so that it does not 
fall when cooled. 

Sponge cake should be baked in a very moderate oven. Why? 

In rolling jelly cake, one must work very rapidly or the cake 
will crack. The crusf must be cut ofif because, being harder 
than the rest of the cake, it would crack and make the cake 
hard to roll. 
What has been learned: 

1. The sponge-cake method of making ingredients reviewed. 

2. In making a rolled cake, one must work rapidly. 



Digitized by 



Google . 



COOKIES 



Lesson XXXIV 



Peanut Cookies 



Materials used: 

Class Rule 

2 tb flour 

i tp baking powder 
a few grains of salt 

3 tb chopped peanuts 
J tb butter 
1 tb sugar 
1 tb egg 
If tp milk 

Utensils needed: 

Meat grinder 

bowl for mixing 

sieve 

bowl in which to beat eggs 
Work to be done: 

1. Place the oven on to heat. 

2. Shell and remove the skins of enough peanuts to make 
the desired amount of meats when ground. 

3. Grind the peanuts medium fine. 

4. Shell and halve enough peanuts to place a half on each 
cooky. 

5. Cream the butter and sugar. 

6. Beat the egg white light and add to the butter and sugar. 

7. Add the milk. Mix. 

8. Mix and sift the dry ingredients; add the ground peanuts 
and mix. 

101 



Home Rule 
i c flour 

1 tp baking powder 
i tp salt 

1 c chopped peanuts 

2 tb butter 
J c sugar 
legg 

2 tb milk 

egg beater 
wooden spoon 
utensils for measuring 
baking sheet 



Digitized by 



Google 



102 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 




9. Add the dry ingredients to the other mixture; stir 
thoroughly. 

10. Butter the pan. 

11. Drop the batter by the teaspoonful upon the buttered 
sheet, one inch apart. Why? 

12. Place one-half peanut on the top of each portion of batter. 

13. Bake the cookies 
in a moderate oven ten 
minutes, or until they 
turn a light brown. 
Serving: 

Cookies may be used 
in many of the ways 
in which cake is used. 
They are laid upon a 
pretty china plate upon 
which is first laid a 
dainty paper or linen 

Principles: <^°'ly- 

What kind of batter is used in cookies which are dropped from 
a spoon upon the buttered sheet? 

Cookies may be divided into two classes, the drop cookies and 
the rolled cookies. Drop cookies are a little easier for beginners 
to manipulate; to roll cookies successfully requires some skill. 

Cookies are nearly always combined by the butter-cake method. 
Cleaning up: 

1. What should be done with the skins and shells of the 
peanuts? 

2. Sweep the floor carefully that no skins or shells are left upon it. 

3. How should batter dishes be cleaned? 
What has been learned: 

1. There are two classes of cookies, dropped and rolled. 

2. Drop cookies are easier to make than rolled cookies. 

3. Cookies are combined by the butter-cake method. 



Fig. 32.— a Plate of Peanut Cookies 



Digitized by 



Google 



COOKIES 
Lesson XXXV ^ 



103 



Boston Cookies 
Materials used: 

Class Rule 

1 tb butter 
i tb sugar 

2 tpegg 
I tp soda 
^ tp hot water 
3i tb flour 
a few grains of salt 
tV tp cinnamon 
1 tb chopped nuts 
J tb chopped raisins 

Utensils needed: 

Medium fine meat grinder 
bowl and spoon for mixing 
utensils for measuring 
Work to be done: 

1. Place the oven over the fire. 
2: Chop the nuts and raisins. 

3. Cream the butter; add the sugar gradually. 

4. Beat the eggs well; add to the butter and sugar. 

5. Add the water to the mixture. 

6. Mix and sift all the dry ingredients except the nuts and 
raisins. 

7. Add half the flour to make a batter and stir thoroughly. 

8. Flour the fruit and nut meats in the remaining flour. 

9. Add them to the batter; mix thoroughly. 

10. Drop the batter by teaspoonfuls on the buttered sheet, 
one inch apart. 

11. Bake the cookies in a moderate oven till brown. 
Serving: 

These cookies are very rich because of the fruits and nuts 



Home Rule 
f C butter 

1 c sugar 

2 eggs 

I tp soda 

1 tb hot water 

2i c flour 

I tp salt 

1 tp cinnamon 

J to 1 c chopped nuts 

i c raisins 

baking sheet 

egg beater and bowl for eggs 

sieve 



Digitized by 



Google 



104 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



they contain. They should, therefore, be used sparingly. 
Serve them in the same manner that other cookies are served. 
Principles: 

Boston cookies represent one type of cookies, namely, cookies 
that are not rolled. Such cookies are called by the general 
term of drop cookies because they are dropped from a spoon 
upon the buttered sheet. They are the easiest and quickest 
cookies to make, as not much skill is required in manipulating 
them. 
What has been learned: 

1. Drop cookies are those which are dropped from a spoon 
upon a buttered sheet. 

Lesson XXXVI 



Sugar 
Materials used: 
Class Rule 
I tb butter 
1 tb sugar 
i tb beaten egg 
i tp milk 
3 tb flour plus enough 

to make a dough 
I tp baking powder 
a few grains of salt and 
nutmeg 
Utensils needed: 
Baking sheet 
egg beater 

mixing bowl and spoon 
bowl in which to beat the eggs 
utensils for measuring 
Work to be done: 



Cookies 

Home Rule 
i c butter 

1 c sugar 

2 eggs 

2 tb milk 

3 c flour 
2 tb baking powder 



i tp salt 

^ tp grated nutmeg 



sieve 

molding board 
rolling pin 
cooky cutter 



1. Cream the butter. Add the sugar and mix thoroughly. 



Digitized by 



Google 



COOKIES 105 

2. Beat the eggs slightly, add the eggs to the milk, and mix. 

3. Mix and sift the dry ingredients. 

4. Add the dry ingredients to the mixture gradually, stirring 
all the time. 

5. If not stiff enough to roll, add more flour, but do not add 
more than is absolutely necessary. 

6. Flour the board sUghtly; place the dough on the board. 

7. Cut off a small portion; pat and roll it out to the thick- 
ness of I inch. 

8. Dip the cutter into flour, then cut out a cooky; dip 
again into the flour and cut out a cooky, continuing thus until 
all the cookies have been cut out. 

9. Place the cookies close together on a sheet and bake in 
a moderate oven until light brown. ^ 

10. Pick up the trinmiings, and put at one side. 

11. Roll out the remainder of the dough. • Last of all, roll 
the trimmings together and cut into cookies. Always get as 
many cookies out each time as possible, for the trimmings do not 
make so good cookies because, being handled more, they con- 
tain more flour. 

Serving: 

Serve the cookies in any of the ways in which other cookies 
are served. 
Principles: 

Rolled cookies must have more flour added to them than drop 
cookies have because they are to be manipulated so much with 
the hands. But if they have too much flour they will become 
hard or tough. In drop cookies there is not enough flour 
added to keep the cookies in shape, hence they spread out and 
they must be placed some distance apart on the sheet; rolled 
cookies have enough flour to enable them to keep their shape, 
hence they are put close together on the sheet. 
Cleaning up: 

1. Scrape the molding board with a knife to remove any 
dough which may be adhering to it. Place the scraps in a tin. 



Digitized by 



Google 



106 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



2. Sift the flour which was on the molding board into a bowl. 

3. Throw all scraps into the garbage can. 

4. Return the imused flour to the flour barrel. 

5. Wash the board and rolling pin in lukewarm, sudsy 
water; scrubbing the board with a little brush will aid in 
cleaning it. 

What has been learned: 

1. Rolled cookies have more flour added to them than have 
drop cookies so that they may be rolled. 

2. The stiffness of the batter keeps the cookies from spreading 
on the sheet. 

Lesson XXXVII 



GiNGERSNAPS 



Materials used: 
Class Rule 
J tb flour 
i tp soda 

1 tp salt 
J tb ginger 

2 tb sugar 
4 tb molasses 
2 tb shortening 

Utensils needed: 

Sieve 

utensils for measuring 

granite pan 
Work to be done: 

1. Place the molasses and sugar in the granite pan and heat 
the mixture to the boiling point. 

2. Add the shortening. 

3. Mix and sift the dry ingredients. 

4.. Stir the dry ingredients into the mixture. 

5. Chill the mixtiu-e thoroughly. If it is not chilled thor- 



Home Rule 
3i c flour 
I tp soda 
IJ tp salt 
1 tb ginger 
J c sugar 
1 c molasses 
^ c shortening 

bowl and spoon for mixing 
board and rolling pin 
cooky cutter 



Digitized by 



Google 



COOKIES 107 

oughly, or if it is kept chilled while being rolled, more flour will 
have to be added and then the cookies will become hard rather 
than crisp and snappy. 

6. When chilled, place the dough on the floured board and 
cut as directed for sugar cookies. 

7. Bake the cookies in a moderate oven. 
Serving: 

Serve in the same manner that other cookies are served. 
Principles: 

What is a shortening? Name some materials that may be 
used as shortening. Why is shortening used in batters? 

These cookies contain a great deal of molasses plus shortening, 
which may be either lard or butter or a mixture of both or some 
of the manufactured products now being used in place of these 
two. Since molasses and shortening both become very stiff 
' when chilled, one does not need to add so much flour to stiffen 
the batter when it is kept stiffened by chilling. The less flour 
that has to be added, the more sure one can be of getting crisp 
snaps. Adding a great deal of flour to gingersnaps will harden 
them just as surely as it would harden the sugar cookies or any 
other kind of cookies. Sugar cookies may also be chilled to 
advantage. 
Cleaning up: 

Clean up just as in the previous lesson. 
What has been learned: 

1. Chilling the gingersnaps hardens the shortening and the 
molasses, thus necessitating the use of less flour. 

Additional Recipes 

Variations of Sugar Cookies 

In all these variations do just as was directed in the class rule for Sugar 
Cookies, but substitute the indicated flavors for the nutmeg. 

Vanilla Cookies 
Substitute 1 tp vanilla for the grated nutmeg. 



Digitized by 



Google 



108 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Chocolate Cookies 

Substitute 3 tb of cocoa or grated chocolate for nutmeg. These are 
good covered with White Mountain Cream. 

Caraway Cookies 

Add 3 tb caraway seeds to the sifted flour. Omit the nutmeg. Roll 
i inch thick. 

CocoANUT Cookies 

Add I c shredded cocoanut to the sifted flour. Omit the nutmeg* 
Roll i inch thick. 

Molasses Cookies 

2| c flour 2 tp ginger 

1 tp soda 1 c molasses 

1 tp salt 2 tb water 

i c shortening, melted 
Mix and sift the dry ingredients. Mix the molasses and water and 
add the melted shortening. Add the dry ingredients. If not stiff enough, 
add more flour. Roll and bake as directed for gingersnaps. 

Rich Cookies 

i c butter } c flour 

} c sugar i tp vanilla 

1 egg, well beaten raisins, nuts, or citron 

Cream the butter, add the sugar gradually, then add the egg, flour, and 
vanilla. Drop from the tip of the spoon in small portions on a buttered 
sheet two inches apart. Spread thinly with a knife first dipped in cold 
water. Put four raisins on each cooky, almonds blanched and cut in 
strips, or citron cut in small pieces. 

Oatmeal Drop Cookies 

1 c sugar 1 tp salt 2 c flour 

} c butter or lard 1 c shredded cocoanut 2 c oatmeal 

2 eggs 4 tb sweet milk i c raisins 
i tp soda 1 tb cinnamon 

Cream the butter and sugar. Add the milk and the egg beaten slightly. 
Roll the raisins in flour. Mix the spices, soda, and flour, and sift all 
together. Add the flour to the oatmeal and mix. Add this to the batter, 
stirring well. Last of all, add the fruit and cocoanut, and mix well. Drop 
by the teaspoonful upon a buttered sheet one and one-half inches apart. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CANDY MAKING 

Lesson XXXVm 

--. ^ . - - White Fondant 

Materials used: 

Class Rule Home Rule 

One-third of the 6 c sugar 

home recipe 1§ c hot water 

i tp cream of tartar 

Utensils needed: 

Granite pan utensils for measuring 

wooden spoon cup for cold water 

buttered platter a tiny piece of white cheese- 

a thermometer cloth 

Work to be done: 

1. Place the ingredients in a granite pan. 

2. Heat gradually to the boiling point and let the mixture 
boil gently. 

3. Boil until a temperature of 238° F. is reached or until a 
soft ball is formed when a little is dropped in cold water. 

4. While cooking, crystals are apt to form on the sides of 
the pan. These must be removed or the whole mass may 
crystallize. Dip the bit of cheesecloth in cold water, wring it 
out and wash away the crystals, rinsing the cloth in the cup of 
cold water. 

5. When a soft ball forms in cold water, remove from the 
fire and pour gently onto the buttered platter. Do not jar 
more than is necessary or it will crystallize. Do not scrape the 
pan into the platter, or crystals will form. If a few crystal 
are added, the whole mass may crystallize. 

6. Allow the fondant to cool until the fingers may be inserted 
without fear of burning. 

109 



Digitized by 



Google 



110 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



7. With a wooden spoon work the mass back and forth until 
the mixture becomes thick, white, and lumpy. 

8. Then knead the fondant with the hands back and forth 
just as in kneading bread. The longer this is done, the more 




Fig. 33. — Candy-making Utensils 

creamy the fondant will become. If it feels grainy to the touch, 
it has been allowed to crystallize and ought to be recooked 
with a little more water added. 

9. Put the fondant into a bowl, cover it with oiled paper, and 
let it stand twenty-four hours. 

Bonbons 

The centers of bonbons are made of fondant shaped into 
round balls. White fondant may be flavored as desired. 
Vanilla is usually preferred as a flavor. To flavor, catch a little 
flavoring on a wooden toothpick, take a little fondant in the 
hand, push the toothpick into it, withdraw, and then work the 
fondant back and forth so that the flavoring will be well mixed 
with it. Colorings should be added in the same way, care 
being taken that not too much is used. 

CocoANUT Centers 

Work as much shredded cocoanut as possible into a small 
quantity of fondant. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CANDY MAKING HI 

Nut Centers 

Surround pieces of nut meat with fondant, using just enough 
to cover the meat. French candied cherries may also be added. 
Let the balls stand until the next day, then dip. 

To Dip Bonbons 
Materials used: 

Fondant, desired flavorings, and colorings. 
Utensils needed: 

Fondant dipper (a 
two-tined fork or a hat 
pin will do just as well) . 

2 bowls, two sizes. 

Some glazed or oiled 




P^P^^- Fig. 34:— Eondant Dipper 

Work to be done: 

1. Place the fondant in the smaller bowl,^set this in a bowl of 
hot water, and allow the fondant to melt. The bowl of fondant 
should remain in the hot water while the dipping is being done. 

2. Color and flavor the fondant as carefully as for the centers. 

3. Drop the centers in the melted fondant, one at a time. 

4. Stir the bonbon until it is covered and remove it to the 
glazed paper. 

6. Stir the fondant between dippings that no crust may be 
allowed to form. 
Serving: 

Bonbons and other dainty candies are served at formal 
dinners just after the dessert course. They are placed in 
suitable glass or silver dishes and are passed by the waitress 
to each guest in turn, who helps himself to what he desires. 
Finger privileges at table: 

Bonbons are taken with the fingers. 
Principles: 

Bonbons should never be made on a rainy day, as the damp 
atmosphere has an unfavorable eflfect on the boiling sugar. 



Digitized by 



Google 



112 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

In making fondant, the same principles are involved and the 
same precautions must be observed as in making boiled frostings. 

It is safer in making fondant to use the thermometer, as this 
is more accurate than testing in cold water, especially for 
beginners. The following table gives the tests for syrups of 
diflferent densities: 

Small thread, 215 degrees F. Soft ball, 238 degrees F. 

Pearl 220 degrees F. Hard ball, 248 degrees F. 

The blow (hair) 230 degrees F. Crack ball, 310 degrees F. 

In making chocolate creams, make the centers as for fondant, 
melt the chocolate just as fondant was melted, and proceed to 
dip the cream as directed. 
Cleaning up: 

1. Why should candy utensils be washed in hot water? 

2. The floor should be washed up with clean, warm, sudsy 
water. The cloths should be wrung dry before the floor is 
wiped with them. 

What has been learned: 

1. The method of making fondant. 

2. A table of thermometer tests for boiling sugar solutions. 



Digitized by CjOOQIC 



MEATS 



Lesson XXXIX 



Broiled Beefsteak with Maitre d 'Hotel Butter 



Home Rule 
desired amount of steak 
3 tb butter 
1 tp lemon juice 
I tp salt 
i tp pepper 
J tp chopped parsley 



Materials used: 
Class Rule 

A small piece of sirloin steak 

f tb butter 

J tp lemon juice 

f tp salt 

a pinch of pepper 

a tiny pinch of chopped 
parsley 
Utensils needed: 

Meat broiler 

bowl 

sharp knife 

wooden spoon 

utensils for measuring 

fork • 

hot platter 

heavy block or board 
Work to be done: 

1. Lay the steak on the block or board; with a sharp knife 
trim off superfluous fat and the heavy tough skin around the 
outer edge. This shrinks in cooking, hence should never be 
left on. 

2. Place the platter where it will become warm. 

3. Have the coals glowing, without flame or smoke. 

4. Have the broiler hot. 

5. Grease the broiler with a piece of suet. 

113 




Fig. 35.— Meat Broiler 



Digitized by 



Google 



114 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

6. Place the steak in the broiler and hold it close to the fire 
about two seconds. Do not hold it so long that drops of beef 
juice come out on the surface which is not exposed to the heat. 

7. Turn the broiler and sear the other side ten seconds. 

8. Turn again and again about every ten seconds for two 
minutes. The meat should then be well seared, but not burned. 




Fig. 36.— Sirloin Steak 

9. Hold farther from the fire, turning every other minute 
or so for six minutes if the steak is one inch thick, and eight 
minutes if it is one and one-half inches thick. 

10. Sprinkle a little salt and pepper on the steak on each 
side and expose each side to the heat a second to allow the 
seasoning to cook in. 

11. Place on the hot platter, spread with Maitre d'Hotel 
Butter and serve at once. 

Maitre d^Hotel Butter 

1.' Cream the butter. 

2. Add the lemon juice gradually. 

3. Then add the other ingredients and mix. 
Serving: 

Steak should be garnished with slices of lemon, with sprigs 
of parsley or watercress, or with the greens alone in bunches. 



Digitized by 



Google 



MEATS 



115 



Potatoes in some form should always be served with steak. 
French fried, Saratoga, either Irish or sweet potatoes baked, 
mashed potatoes, and escalloped potatoes are all appropriate. 
The person who is to carve the beefsteak should know at a 
glance where the tough and the tender parts lie, and how to 
carve it so that the tender parts will be distributed impartially 




Fig. 37. — Porterhouse Steak 

among the guests. The platter should be so placed before the 
carver that the broad end of the steak is at his right. (1) 
Hold the steak firmly with the fork, and cut out the bone, 
beginning at the upper right-hand side. (2) Lay this to one 
side. The tenderloin lies below the bone; the sirloin is the 
part above the bone. (3) Holding the steak firmly, cut it 
into long strips through both the sirloin and the tenderloin. 
(4) Serve a piece of each portion on each plate. With a spoon 
dip up a portion of the platter gravy and pour it over the steak. 
Table etiquette: 

In cutting steak, one should hold the knife and fork as shown 
in Figure 38, keeping the elbows close to the side. Only one 
mouthful, or small piece, should be cut at a time. 
Principles: 

Broiling is cooking by direct exposure to heat over hot 
coals or over a gas flame. Only tender cuts may be cooked in 



Digitized by 



Google 



116 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 




this way. In broiling, the object is to retain the juices of the 
meat. To do this the meat must be exposed to an intense 

heat, first on one side and then 
on the other, so that both sur- 
faces will become seared, thus 
preventing the escape of the 
juices. Meat contains a great 
deal of protein. This is present 
in several different forms, one 
of which is albumin. What 
else contains albumin? At what 
temperature does albumin 

harden? When the steak is 
Fig. 38.-Cutting at Table ^^p^^^^ ^^ ^^^l^ .^^^^ j^^^^^ 

the albumin on the surface of the meat becomes hardened and 
the exposed meat fibers shrink in just the same way as the 
tough membrane, which was cut away from the steak, would 
shrink if exposed to heat. In this way an outer coating is 
fonned which keeps the juices within the meat. 

Why should eggs be cooked below the boiling point? Why is 
milk not heated above 170° F. in pasteurizing? For the same 
reason steak must be lifted some distance above the fire to be 
cooked after its surfaces have been seared. The albumin and 
other proteins in the meat are just as susceptible to heat as are 
the protein of the egg and the milk; and they are rendered just 
as indigestible by the hardening action of the heat as are the 
proteins previously studied. For this reason, steak should never 
be cooked so that it is browned all through; it is then hard and 
indigestible. Properly cooked steaks should be browned only 
one-eighth of an inch from each surface; the interior should 
be juicy, firm to the touch, and of an even red color. 

Steak seems to increase in size when it is broiled. This is 
because the steam caused by the heating of the juices within it 
demands more room and, in seeking it, it expands the tissues 
just as it expanded the batter in the popovers. 



Digitized by 



Google 



MEATS 117 

When it is desired to cook meat so that all the juices are 
retained, salt should never be added until just before the meat is 
to be taken from the fire because salt always causes the meat 
juice to exude. 

When broiling steak over a wood or a coal fire, one should see 
to it that all the dampers are open so that the smoke which 
comes from the fat which drips down upon the fire may go up 
the chinmey and not fill the room. 
Cleaning up: 

1. Soak the broiler in hot water. 

2. Save the bone and clippings for the soup kettle. 

3. Gather the suet together in a bowl and try out, that is, 
cook until all the fat is melted. 

4. Wash all the utensils in hot, sudsy water. Use sapolio or 
other scouring agent on the broiler to make it smooth. Rinse 
the utensils in clear, hot water. 

What has been learned: 

1. Broiling is cooking by direct exposure to heat on hot 
coals or over a gas flame. The object is to retain the juice 
of meats. 

2. Searing is heating the surface of the meat so intensely 
hot that a coat of hardened albumin is formed. 

3. After meat has been seared, it should be cooked at a lower 
temperature so as not to -harden the protein compounds in it. 

4. Some of the juices of meat are changed to steam in cooking. 
This steam puffs up the meat. 

5. In broiling over a wood or a coal fire, the dampers should be 
opened so that the smoke may be carried up the chinmey. 

6. Salt has a tendency to extract meat juices; therefore, 
when it is desired to retain the meat juices, salt is not added 
until the meat is done. 



Digitized by 



Google 



118 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Lesson XL 

Hamburg Steak 

Materials used: 

Class Rule Home Rule 

2 tb chopped meat 1 tb onion juice or grated 

5 or 6 drops onion juice onion 

i tp salt i tp salt 

1 tp egg 1 egg 

a few grains of pepper a dash of pepper 

Utensils needed: 1 lb round steak 

Meat grinder 

fine grater mixing spoon 

sharp knife utensils for measuring 

heavy board hot platter 

spatula frying pan or omelet pan 

Work to be done: 

1. Place the meat on the board and with the sharp knife 
remove the bone, if one is present, and the tough membrane. 
Cut the meat into small pieces. 

2. Put the pieces of meat through the meat grinder. Place 
the bowl on a chair underneath the meat grinder to catch the 
juice. The juice contains protein and mineral matter in 
solution. 

3. Grate the onion very fine or scrape oflF the desired amount 
of juice by scraping a slice with the sharp knife. 

4. Add the onion juice, egg, and seasonings to the meat, and 
mix thoroughly with a fork or spoon. 

5. Shape with the hands into fat cakes, one and one-half 
inches across and three-fourths inch thick. Do not press them 
hard. 

6. Place the frying pan over the fire and allow it to get 
very hot. 



Digitized by 



Google 



MEATS 



119 



7. Rub a piece of suet, bacon rind, or other fat over the 
surface of the pan, and place the meat cakes on the pan. 

8. Allow the cakes to sear a minute on one side, then turn 
them with the spatula, being careful not to break them. 




Fig. 39.— Round Steak 

9. Turn them when the second side is seared and continue 
turning until done. These cakes need not be turned so often 
as steak. 

10. After five or six minutes, test by making a cut into the 
side of one cake and pulUng it apart. If cooked enough, remove 
to the hot platter. If preferred, these may be broiled directly 
over the fire as is steak. 



Brown Sauce 



Materials used: 

Class Rule 
i tb butter 
J tb flour 
tV tp salt 
-iV tp pepper 



Home Rtile 
2 tb butter 
2 tb flour 
i tp salt 
I tp pepper 
1 c brown stock or water 



Digitized by 



Google 



120 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Utensils needed: 

Pan in which steak was measuring utensils spoon 

broiled strainer 

Work to be done: 

1. Return the pan to a gentle fire after the steak has been 
removed. 

2. Place the butter in the pan and let it melt. 

3. Add the flour, mix, and let it brown. 

4. Add the water or stock. (Stock gives a richer flavor.) Stir. 

5. Add the seasonings. 

6. Strain the mixture into the gravy dish. This is done to 
remove any particles of meat which may have been in the pan. 

Note: If the sauce does not brown enough from the butter and flour, 
add a drop or two of Kitchen Bouquet. A drop of Worcestershire sauce 
will give a piquant flavor to the gravy. 

Serving: 

Place the meat balls upon a suitable platter and garnish 
with parsley. When serving, pick a meat ball up with the fork 
and place upon the individual plate. Serve any style of pota- 
toes used with broiled steak. Hamburg steak is also especially 
nice served with tomato sauce. (See Lesson XLV.) Garnish 
with parsley or water cress. 
Principles: 

In this lesson one method of cooking the tougher cuts of 
meat, like round steak, is illustrated, but before the method can 
be fully understood one must know something about the struc- 
ture of meats. 

Lean parts of meat have practically the same structure 
without regard to the animal or the part of the animal from 
which they come. All lean meat is made up of prism-shaped 
bundles of muscle fibers, or tubes, held together with connective 
tissue. These tubes are so small that they cannot be seen except 
with the aid of a microscope. Within the tubes is a watery 
fluid which holds in solution protein, mineral matter, and other 
substances. These tubes of muscle fibers are held together by 



Digitized by 



Google 



MEATS 121 

means of connective tissue, thus forming bundles. A bundle 
can be easily seen with the naked eye. A piece of round steak, 
because it is always sliced off at right angles to the bundles and 
because its bundles are very coarse, shows them very plainly. 
Such a bundle is composed of hundreds of the little tubes. The 
walls of the tubes are very delicate elastic membranes composed 
of material containing proteins. 

The toughness or tenderness of meats depends upon two 
things, namely, the character of the walls of the muscle tubes 
and the character of the connective tissue which holds the tubes 
and bundles together. In young animals, the walls of the tubes 
are young and tender; as the animal grows older and is made to 
work, the walls of the muscle tubes and the connective tissue 
become thick and hard. The same holds true concerning the 
flesh of poorly nourished animals. 

Round steak, cut from the round, comes from one of the most 
used parts of the animal; other tough steaks are also cut from 
the loin and the rump. Because round steak is usually more or 
less tough, depending upon the condition and age of the animal 
from which it came, it is usually not broiled as is the sirloin 
steak, for broiling should be applied only to tender cuts of meat. 
The tougher cuts must either be cooked a longer time at a lower 
temperature or they must be treated in some way which will 
render them fit to be broiled. This was accomplished in the 
Hamburg steak by first cutting away any connective tissue 
which was visible; and further by cutting up the connective 
tissue and fibers into little pieces by passing the meat through the 
grinder. Sometimes very tough meat is passed through twice, 
first being cut by one of the coarse knives and then broken into 
finer pieces by means of a fine knife. This method of rendering 
tough pieces of meat fit to be used is very common, as in making 
veal and other meat loaves, which, by the way, should always 
be made of tough cuts to be economical. 

After the piece of round steak was cut up, it was mixed with 
a little egg. What nutrient was thus added to the food? It 



Digitized by 



Google 



122 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

was not necessary to add this to increase the protein value of the 
meat balls; it was added to enable the housewife the better to 
keep the cooked food in shape while turning it. The little 
particles of meat have a tendency to drop apart when cooked; 
the egg keeps them together. The onion was added to give a 
flavor which is pleasing to most people. The method of cooking 
the Hamburg steak is essentially the same as that used in cook- 
ing the steak. Cooking in this way is called pan broiling. If 
preferred, all broiling may be done in this way and the finished 
product is just as juicy and well-flavored as if it had been 
broiled over the coals, if the cooking is carefully done. 
Cleaning up: 

1. Soak the pan in hot water. 

2. Wash utensils as usual; scour the pan with sapolio to 
keep it bright and smooth. 

What has been learned: 

1. Pan broiling is broiling meat in a pan over a hot fire. 

2. A piece of meat consists of prism-shaped bundles held 
together by connective tissue. 

3. Each bundle is made up of hundreds of hollow fibers. 

4. Within the hollow fibers is a liquid which holds proteins, 
mineral matter, and other substances in solution. 

5. The toughness or the tenderness of the walls of the fibers 
and of the connective tissue depends upon the age of the animal, 
its food, and the amount of work it has done. 

6. Tender cuts may be broiled; tough cuts must have their 
toughness modified before they can be broiled. ' 



Digitized by 



Google 



MEATS 123 

Lesson XLI 

Roast Beef 

Note to the Teacher: A lesson like this must almost necessarily 
be a demonstration lesson because of the high price of roasts. But if means 
will allow, each two girls should be given a very small roast to cook. 

Materials used: 

A properly prepared roast a little flour salt 

Utensils needed: 

A dripping pan with a rack spoon 

Work to be done: 

1. Wipe the meat with a damp cloth. 

2. Place the meat on the rack in the dripping pan. 

3. Dredge the meat and pan with flour. 

4. For a large roast, have the oven as hot as for bread, that is, 
hot enough to turn white paper dark brown in six minutes. 
The roast should be 
seared in ten minutes. 

5. Then lower the 
temperature. Or heat 
the spider as hot as for 
Hamburg steak; rub it 
with a little suet, and 
sear the meat in the 
spider. Then dredge 
with flour and salt and place on the rack in the pan and 
roast. If the meat is seared in this way, the oven need not 
be so hot. 

6. Leave the roast in the oven ten or twelve minutes to each 
pound. 

7. A roast that is seared in the oven should be salted after 
it has been seared. 

8. If the roast is very lean, lay a few pieces of fat on the 
bottom of the pan. 




Fig. 40. — Meat Roaster 



Digitized by 



Google 



124 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



9. If there is danger that the flour will become too brown, 
add a few drops of water. 

10. Baste every ten minutes with the drippings in the pan, 
or put the cover on the roasting pan. This prevents the 




Fig. 41.— -A Rib Roast Stripped and Rolled. Ninth, Tenth, Eleventh, 
and Twelfth Ribs after Stripping 

escape of the steam, which condenses when it strikes the cover 
and falls back on the roast, basting it. 

The Gravy 

1. Pour the fat from the pan. 

2. Allow 1 tb fat and 1| tb of flour for each cupful of gravy. 

3. Put the fat in the pan, add the flour, and stir over a hot 
fire until it is well browned. 

4. Add boiling water and stir the mixture. 

5. Boil the gravy for three minutes. Season it to taste. 
If it is not brown enough, how can it be made so? 

6. Strain the gravy into a gravy dish. 



Digitized by 



Google 



MEATS 125 

Serving: 

A rolled roast of beef is placed on the platter on one of its 
ends. The platter should be so large that when the slices are 
cut they will not fall off. The strings or skewers which hold 
the roast together should be removed and a fancy skewer 
inserted, if desired, before it is sent to the table. The roast 
is carved in slices across the end; in this way each person gets 
some of the well-browned f af surrounding the roast, a part of the 
very tender meat, and a part of the less tender meat. The fork 
should be inserted in the open space below the eye (center) of 
the meat, and should be kept in this position until several 




Fig. 42. — Prime Ribs and Loins. (1 and 2) Prime ribs, fibrst-class meat. 
(3 and 4) Loins, a lower grade of meat 

slices have been cut. The slices should be thin and delicate, 
without any jagged edges, but not so thin that they break apart. 
The outside slice should not be served unless someone wants 
a piece that is well done. 

A rib roast is not stripped from the ribs. Such a roast should 
be so placed on the platter that it rests on the ends of the ribs 
and on that portion of the back bone to which they are attached; 
the ribs then form an arch over the platter and the meat is 
exposed to the carver. The meat should first be loosened from 
the bone. Place the fork in the center of the meat and hold it 
firmly, leaving it in position imtil the meat has been freed 
entirely from all the bones. Place the knife between the ribs 



Digitized by 



Google 



126 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

of the roast at the small end and serve them at that end. Then 
insert the knife at the top of the roast near the back bone and 
follow it down to the ribs. Here turn the knife so that it will 
follow along the ribs until the small end is reached. It some- 
times happens that only half of the roast will be needed for one 
meal; in that case, separate only half of the meat from the bone. 




Fig. 43. — Prime Rib and Short Loin Cuts 

When the meat is separated from the bones, it should not be 
lifted from its position upon them. To €ut it into slices, insert 
the knife at the highest point of the meat near the back bone and 
cut down in parallel lines towards the ribs. The fork should 
not be removed until all the slices have been cut. Cutting the 
roast in this way cuts it across the grain and gives to each person 
a part of the siurounding fat, a piece of very tender meat, and 
a piece of less tender meat. When ready to serve, pick the 
pieces of meat up with the fork held in the right hand, place a 
slice of meat upon the plate, lay the fork down, take up a spoon 
and pour a spoonful of the platter gravy or meat juice upon 
the meat. Why should one use the platter gravy? In order 
that it may not become cold and unpalatable, have the platter 



Digitized by 



Google 



MEATS 



127 



very warm when the roast is placed upon it. Serve a roast 
with mashed potatoes at dinner. 

Note to Teacher: It is not so difficult for the pupils to learn to carve 
and serve if they are allowed to do the actual work imder supervision. 
Let each pupil do a little share of the work, the others watching meanwhile. 
Principles: 

Roasting is cooking by exposure to the action of the dry 
heat of an oven. The earliest method of roasting was to cook 
before an open grate or in front of the coals on a spit. 

Roasting, like broiling, is a method of cooking suitable only 
for tender cuts of meat, as it must be done rapidly. The cuts 




Fig. 44.— Beef on Hoof 

suitable for roasting are the sirloin, rump, and rib of beef; 
the loin, leg and shoulder of lamb, mutton, or veal; and the 
shin and rib of pork. 

Properly roasted beef, when done, should have the fat brown 
and crisp. The meat should be browned about one-fourth of an 
inch down; all the rejjiainder should be a bright, even red and of 
a firm texture throughout. 



Digitized by 



Google 



128 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



Cleaning up: 

Clean up as has been directed in previous lessons. 
What has been learned: 

1. Roasting is cooking by exposure to the dry heat of an oven. 

2. Roasting is suitable for tender cuts of meat. 

3. The principles underlying roasting are the same as those 
underlying broiling. 

4. Properly roasted meat should be brown 
one-fourth inch from each surface, the interior 
should be of an even red color and should 
have a firm texture. 

Table Showing the Cuts op Beep 
AND Their Uses 
Divisions Ways op Cooking 

1. Shank Stews, Soup Stock 

2. Round . Cheaper Steaks, PotRoasts, Stews 

3. Rump Steaks, Stews, Roasts, Braising 

4. Sirloin . Steaks and Roasts (expensive cuts) 

5. Pin Bone*. .Steaks and Roasts (expensive 
cuts) 

6. Porterhouse . . Steaks and Roasts (most ex- 
pensive cuts) 

Prime Ribs Roasts 

Chuck Ribs Small Steaks, Roasts and Stews 

Shoulder Roast Roasts and Stews 

Short Ribs Stewed, Braised or Boiled 

I Flank, Stewed, Braised or Baked 
Flank Steak, Rolled and StuflFed, Baked or Braised 
Skirt, Rolled and StuflFed, Baked or Stewed 

12. Platet Stews, Soups, Coming 

13. Brisket Stews, Pot Roasts, Soups 

14. Chuck Stews and Simmering 

*The projecting part of the hip bone. 
tXhin slice from the brisket. 




Fig. 45.— Beef as 

Hung, Showing 

Cuts 



7. 

8. 

9. 

10. 



Digitized by 



Google 



MEATS 129 

15. Clod Stews and Cheaper Roasts 

16. Neck Stews, Soups, Coming 

Tripe Pickled, Breaded, Fried, Creole or Stewed with Onions 

Kidney Stewed or Saut6 

Suet Suet Puddings, Cooking Fat 

Tongue Boiled, Corned, Smoked or Pickled 

Liver Fried, Boiled or Baked 

Brains Fried 

Heart Stuffed and Boiled or Baked, Fried 

Tail.' Soup and Boiled 



Lesson XLII 


Meat Pie 




(A Lesson on Left-overs) 


Materials used: 




Class Rule 


Home Rule 


Crust: i c flour 


2 c flour 


^ tp baking powder 


4 tp baking powder 


a speck of salt 


i tp salt 


1 tb shortening 


2 tb shortening 


U tb milk 


f c milk 


Filling: 3 tb cold beef 


a quantity of cold roast 


a drop or two of onion 


beef or beefsteak 


juice 


^ onion 


4 slices potato 


water enough to cover 


seasonings 


seasonings to taste 




1 c potatoes cut in slices 



Utensils needed: 

a baking dish in which to bake the pie 

2 granite stew pans 

utensils for measuring 

utensils with which to make biscuit mixture 

utensils for paring and slicing potatoes 



Digitized by 



Google 



130 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Work to be done: 

Cut the meat into ^-inch pieces; add water and onion and 
lei it simmer for 1 hour if very tough. 

2. Parboil the potatoes eight minutes. 

3. While cooking, combine the crust as the baking powder 
mixture was combined. 

4. Cool the meat and the potatoes. 

5. Place the meat, potatoes, and seasonings in the dish. 

6. Cover the whole with the crust. 

7. Bake the pie in a hot oven until the crust is done. 
Serving: 

Place the baking dish upon a pretty round platter upon which 
are placed loose branches of celery tips or other greens. Cut it 
across the top just as any other pie would be cut, but use the 
carving knife. Remove the contents of the pie from the dish 
to the plate with a spoon, giving to each person a triangle of 
the crust and a spoonful of the gravy over the whole. A meat 
pie is served at dinner. 
Principles: 

In this lesson is given a method of warming over meat. The 
cook should remember that intense heat hardens its protein 
compounds and its tissues. Moderate heat apphed for quite a 
long time has the opposite effect; it softens the tough tissues. 
Meat that has been thoroughly cooked and which is tender 
should not be recooked; it should merely be reheated. Meat 
that is slightly underdone should be cooked sufficiently, but 
care should be taken not to cook it too long. Meat that has 
tough tissues should be cooked a long time just below the boiling 
point; this is called simmering. Cooking in this way will 
break down the tough tissues of the meat and render it palatable 
and digestible. 

When preparing cold meat for a made-over dish, remove the 
tough membranes, gristle, bones, and extra fat. Chop the meat, 
cut it into cubes or into slices, as desired; the method used 
should depend entirely upon the character of the dish it is 



Digitized by 



Google 



MEATS 131 

desired to make. For instance, very tough meat could be used 
to best advantage in hash or some such dish; meat that is quite 
tender or which is slightly imderdone is best in a pie. Renmants 
of different kinds of meat may be used together, if their flavors 
are not too pronounced and different. Meat from which beef 
tea or soup has been made should never be thrown away, for 
it still contains a great deal of nutritive material and can be 
made into very delightful dishes. Cold cooked meat may be 
reheated by itself or in combination with potatoes, tomatoes, 
rice, macaroni, bread, or cracker crumbs. Very palatable 
substitutions may be made, as, for instance, bread crumbs or 
macaroni for potatoes, stewed tomatoes for gravy, and rice 
for macaroni. 

Warmed over dishes are sometimes called R^chauff^s, which 
comes from the French word rechauffer (ra' sho'fa'), to heat 
again. A r^chauff^ gives a housewife many an opportunity 
to use her ingenuity and to save on the monthly expenditures 
for food. It requires skill of the very highest kind to make 
use of all kinds of left-overs and to present them always in a 
tempting guise. Every housewife should endeavor to acquire 
such skill. 
Cleaning up: 

1. Invert the baking dish in a pan of cold water. Why? 
What has been learned: 

1. Simmering is cooking just below the boiling point. 

2. R^chauff^s are warmed-over dishes of meat. 

3. On warming over meat, that which is sufficiently cooked 
and tender should be reheated merely, underdone meat should 
be cooked only until it is done; meat that is tough should 
sinuner. 

4. Pieces of left-overs of various kinds should never be 
discarded, but should be used in some attractive way. 



Digitized by 



Google 



132 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



Lesson XLm 

Boiled Leg of Mutton 
Materials used: 
Home Rule 
The leg, shoulder, or a piece from the neck should be used. 

Drawn Butter Sauce Made with Mutton Broth 




i tp pepper 

1 c mutton broth 

i c capers, if desired. 



granite pan 
utensils for meas- 
uring 
wooden spoon 



i c butter 

3 tb flour 

i tp salt 
Utensils needed: 

Large kettle in which to 
boil the mutton 

piece of cloth with which 
to wipe the mutton 

sharp knife 
Work to be done: 

1. Remove the outer membrane from the meat, 
as this gives a strong flavor. 

2. Moisten the cloth and wipe the meat. 

3. Put enough boiling water into the kettle to 
cover the meat. 

4. Place the meat in the water and bring it 
to the boiling point. 

5. Boil the mutton ten minutes, then bring down to about 
180° F. and let it remain at this temperature until the meat is 
done. It takes three hours to cook a twelve-pound leg of 
mutton. 

6. Add 1 tp salt for each quart of water when the meat begins 
to simmer. 

*A mutton or lamb chop is a small slice of meat cut from the leg or 
from the ribs, often including the latter. 



Fig. 46.— Mut- 
ton Cuts* 



Digitized by 



Google 



MEATS 133 



Sauce 



1. Take half the butter and place it in the granite pan. 

2. Add the flour to the butter in the pan and mix thoroughly. 

3. Add the mutton broth slowly to the mixture, stirring all 
the time. 

4. Let the sauce boil five minutes, stirring it constantly. 




Fig. 47. — Mutton on Hoof 

5. When it is ready to serve, beat in the remaining butter, 
a little at a time. 

6. If desired, add i c capers to the sauce. These are especially 
nice with mutton. 

Serving: 

Place the meat on a hot platter and brush it with drawn 
butter sauce. Sprinkle it with finely chopped parsley and bring 
it to the table. In place of the drawn butter sauce, mint sauce 
maybe used. 

The leg should be laid upon the platter in such a way that 
the convex side is uppermost. The platter should be placed 
before the carver in such a way that the small round bone is 
towards the left. The carving fork should be inserted into the 



Digitized by 



Google 



134 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

meat at the knuckle, which is the first joint. Beginning at the 
top of the central part of the roast, cut downward in slices until 
the bone is reached. When the large bone at the right has been 
reached, stop slicing, and loosen the slices from the bone by- 
running the knife along it. 
Principles: 

Boiling is an intermediate step between broiling or roasting 
and stewing. Less choice cuts may be used for boiling than for 
either broiling or roasting, and better cuts than for stewing. 

A leg of lamb or of mutton may just as well be roasted; the 
neck piece is always more satisfactory boiled. Corned beef, 
ham, and tongue are always very salty. These should be placed 
in cold water and brought to the boiling point, after which they 
should be treated just as was the leg of mutton. Tough fowls 
may be cooked in water until they are tender, after which they 
may be treated just as are the tender fowls. 

As has been stated before, the albumin of meat is very much 
like that of eggs and milk. It should not be heated above the 
boiling point because it then coagulates and the meat becomes 
hard and dry. Cooking the meat in boiling water until the 
outer surface is covered with coagulated albumin, retains the 
juices just as they are retained in broiling and roasting. Then 
letting the meat cook a long time at about the same low tempera- 
ture as was used for eggs, will soften the fibers and the meat 
will keep juicy. 

The peculiar taste which differentiates one kind of meat 
from every other is tiue to the presence of flavoring substances 
in the meat. These flavoring substances are known by the 
general term of extractives. Not much is known concerning 
these extractives, but scientists have discovered that they serve 
no function in the nutrition of the body except that of a stimu- 
lant for the digestive organs and juices. The amount and 
character of the extractives present in the meat are what give 
to each kind its own peculiar flavor. The amount and kind 
present are influenced by the age of the animal, the food upon 



Digitized by 



Google 



MEATS 135 

« 

which it feeds, and the amount of work performed in life by 
each muscle. That the age of the animal influences the charac- 
ter and amount of extractives is shown by the difference in 
flavor between veal and beef, lamb and mutton; that the kind 
of food also has considerable influence is shown by the flavor 
of wild rabbits as compared with the flavor of those animals 
which have been domesticated; that amount of work influences 
it is shown by the difference in flavor between the leg and the 
breast of a chicken. These extractives are dissolved from meat 
by long continued cooking in water; boiled meats have, there- 
fore, a flatter taste than have roasted or broiled meats, and they 
need to be seasoned more highly. Because so much of the 
extractives is removed from the boiled meat into the broth, 
the latter makes a splendid soup stock and should always be 
used as such. Mutton broth makes a splendid foundation 
for tomato soup. If there is not enough broth out of which 
to make both soup and the sauce, pmit the broth from the sauce 
and use water in its place. The broth in which salt meats are 
cooked cannot be used for soup; why? 
Cleaning up: 

1. Strain the broth into an earthen dish and set it aside to 
use for soup. 

2. Clean up every utensil and set away each in its own place. 

3. See that stove, table, and floor are all clean. 
What has been learned: 

1. Boiling is an intermediate step between roasting or broiling 
and stewing. 

2. In boiling meat, the object is to retain the meat juices, 
but so to cook it that if tough it is made more tender. 

3. Pieces of meat too good for stews, but not quite good 
enough for roasting, may be boiled. 

4. Corned meats are usually cooked by boiling. 

5. Extractives give to meat its peculiar flavor. 

6. Extractives have no nutritive value besides that of stim- 
ulating the digestive organs. 



Digitized by 



Google 



136 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

7. The amount of extractives in meat is influenced by the 
age, the food, and the amount of exercise of the animal from 
which the meat comes. 

8. Because of the extractives present, the broth in which 
fresh meat has been cooked is good for soups. 



Lesson XLIV 

Lamb Stew 

Materials used: 

Class Rule Home Rule 

A small piece of lamb IJ lb breast of lamb 

3 tb boiling water 1 pt boiling water 

i potato 4 medium-sized potatoes 

1 slice onion 1 onion, 1| in. in diameter 
i tb rice 2 tb rice 

i c strained tomato 1 c strained tomato, or 

salt and pepper 1 tb tomato catsup 

i tb butter salt and pepper 

2 tb butter 
Utensils needed: 

Utensils for measuring paring knife 

2 granite pans omelet pan 
utensils in which to wash sharp knife 

vegetables and rice 
Work to be done: 

1. Pare the onion; cut off the top slice. 

2. Cut the exposed surface into i in. squares. 

3. Cut the onion as though you were going to slice it, thus 
making i in. cubes. 

4. Place the butter in the omelet pan and heat it. Add the 
sliced onion and brown. 

5. Cut the meat into pieces suitable for serving. 



Digitized by 



Google 



MEATS 137 

6. Cover with the boiling water, add the onions, salt, and 
pepper. Bring it to the boiling point and then let the stew 
simmer. It may be cooked in a double boiler or in a fireless 
cooker. It should cook for three hours. 

Note to Teacher: In class, the meat should be cut into one-inch 
pieces. It wilt then take only one-third the time that it takes to prepare 
the stew by the home rule. In class, the rice should be added, therefore, 
with the meat. 

7. Wash the rice as directed in a previous lesson and add it to 
the stew after the meat has simmered one hour. 

8. Pare and quarter the potatoes. 

9. Boil the potatoes five minutes and add them to the stew, 
hot, one-half hour before it is to be served. 

10. When the stew is to be served, remove the bones and 
pieces of fat; stir in the tomato or catsup, and add more 
seasonings if they are needed. 

Serving: 

Serve this at dinner with either boiled, mashed, or baked 
potatoes. 
Principles: 

Stewing is cooking slowly, or gently, a long time in a small 
quantity of water. 

When the boiling water was poured over the pieces of meat, 
what change took place in the color or appearance of the meat? 
This was due to the fact that the hot water seared the outside. 
Why are pieces of meat seared before they are cooked? 

Pouring the boiling water over the meat does not sear it so ' 
effectually but that some of the meat juices escape. This is 
effected by the long slow cooking and by the fact that the meat 
is cut into small pieces. In boiUng, meat is left in one big piece 
so that as Uttle of the juices escapes as possible. In stews, it 
is desirable to extract some of the juices because the meat is to 
be served in the broth. The escaped meat juices add flavor 
and nutritive elements to the broth and because this is eaten, 
they are not lost. 



Digitized by 



Google 



138 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Another method of preparing the stew is to divide the meat 
into two equal portions. The poorest half of the meat is placed 
in cold water and brought to the boiling point. The cold water 
quickly extracts the juices through the open tubes. The best 
portion of the meat is seared in a pan. It should be rolled in 
flour, which dries its surfaces and causes them to brown more 
rapidly. Some drippings, or other kind of fat, are placed in a 
pan and heated. The meat is added and thoroughly browned 
on all sides, after which it is added to the simmering kettle. 
The flour also serves the purpose of thickening the stew. This 
method is often employed in making beef stews. Browning 
the meat in this way gives a rich color and flavor to the stew. 

What kind of meat is suitable for broiling and roasting? 
Why? Stewing is a method of slow cooking, hence it should be 
employed only for meats that have a great deal of connective 
tissue and tough fibers. Such meat is usually very juicy, and, 
when cooked in the proper way, makes very palatable and nutri- 
tious dishes. The tougher portions of beef, mutton, lamb, or 
veal should be used for stews. Pieces of cold meat may also 
be thus used. The higher-priced tender cuts should never be 
cooked in this way; they are better cooked by shorter methods. 

The meats suitable for stews are cheaper than the others, 
hence stews make a very economical dish, especially if the house- 
wife cooks them in a fireless cooker, thus saving the cost of fuel. 
The long slow cooking in stewing resembles the cooking of 
cereals. To what substance in the cereals do the tough fibers 
of meat compare? 

The vegetables Commonly used in stews are onions, carrots, 
turnips, potatoes, and sometimes tomatoes, beans, and green 
peas. What do they add to the stew? The seasonings used are 
salt and pepper, sweet herbs, parsley, bay leaves, and cloves. 
Dumplings are often added. They are made by adding a drop 
batter by the spoonful to the stew when it has been brought to 
the boiling point. The heat of the boiling water causes them 
to rise and cooks them. Usually they are used without shorten- 



Digitized by 



Google 



MEATS 139 

ing because there is always some fat present in the stew. The 
bone and fat should not be removed from the meat before 
cooking. Both add richness and flavor to the stew. 
Cleaning up: 

1. Place the pieces of bone, parings, and other waste matter 
in the garbage can. 

2. Any vegetables not used should be put away in proper 
vessels. 

3. Wash the dishes in hot, sudsy water and rinse in clear, 
warm water. 

4. Remove all traces of stains from utensils by means of 
sapolio. 

What has been learned: 

1. Stewing is cooking slowly in a small quantity of water 
for a long time. 

2. The object of stewing is to retain part of the juices and to 
allow a part to escape to give richness and flavor to the broth. 

3. As stewing is a means of breaking down tough tissues, only 
tough cuts are suitable for this process. 

4. Stews are economical, especially when cooked in a fireless 
<;ooker. 

Lesson XLV 

Pan-broiled Chops 
Materials used: 

Class Rule Home Rule 

1 lamb chop desired nimaber of chops 

salt and pepper salt and pepper 

Utensils needed: 

Frying pan meat board 

sharp knife 
Work to be done: 

1. Lay the chop on the board and trim off the fat. 

2. Heat the pan very hot and rub over it a piece of the fat. 



Digitized by 



Google 



140 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

3. Place the chop in the pan, sear one side, then the 
other. 

4. Turn it often from side to side, using a spatula, and cook 
from six to eight minutes. 

5. If any fat gathers in the pan, pour it into a cup. 

6. When done, stand the chop on edge against the side of 
the pan that the edge also may be browned. 

7. These may be served with tomato sauce. 

Tomato Sauce 
Materials needed: 

J c water J tp salt 

J c tomato juice 1 tp butter 

J slice onion Ij tb flour 

1 clove 
Utensils needed: 

Granite pan sieve 

utensils for measuring bowl 

omelet pan 
Work to be done: 

1. Place the first four ingredients in a granite pan and boil 
five minutes. 

2. Place the butter in the omelet pan and melt. 

3. Add the flour to the butter, mix, and let it brown. 

4. Strain the liquid through the sieve into a bowl. 

5. Pour the liquid slowly into the butter and flour, stirring 
constantly. 

6. Boil for five minutes; season the sauce to taste. 
Serving: 

The platter upon which the chops are placed when they are 
done should be very warm and they should be served at once, 
for they are not palatable when cold. A pretty way of serving 
them is to arrange a mound of peas or spinach upon a large 
round platter, then stand the chops on end around and against 
this mound. 



Digitized by 



Google 



MEATS 141 

Principles: 

What name is given to the method by which the chops are 
cooked? What else has been cooked in this way? When turn- 
ing the chops, always use a spatula; never pierce a cooking 
piece of meat with a fork because the fork pierces the outer 
coating of hardened albumin, thus allowing the meat juices to 
escape. After both surfaces of the chops have been seared, the 
heat should be lowered so that the interior of the chop will 
cook at a lower temperature; why should this be done? 

The last two lessons have dealt with lamb or mutton; all the 
previous lessons have been about beef. Beef is the flesh of the 
ox, steer, or cow, and is the most nutritious of all animal food. 
The flesh of a calf is called veal. It is less nutritious and less 
easily digested than beef. The flesh of the full grown sheep is 
called mutton; that of the young, not more than a year old, is 
called lamb. Mutton comes next after beef in nutritive value, 
but the fat of mutton is not so easily digested as is the fat of beef. 
A sheep about three years old yields the best mutton. As veal 
is less nutritious than beef, so lamb is less nutritious than mutton. 

The flesh of beef should be of a bright red color. The fat 
should be yellowish in color and should be well sprinkled 
throughout the whole of the meat; this insures tender, juicy 
meat. Mutton should be a dull red color and its fat should be 
white. Mutton fat is brittle and does not feel oily to the 
touch. Veal is much lighter in color than beef and less firm. 
Lamb has a lighter color than mutton. 
Cleaning up: 

1. Observe the rules given in the previous lesson on pan- 
broiling. 

2. Save all pieces of mutton fat; they may be tried out and 
used in cooking as drippings. 

What has been learned: 

1. While cooking, meat should never be pierced with a fork. 

2. Beef is the flesh of the ox, cow, or steer; veal is meat 
from a calf; mutton is the flesh of sheep. 



Digitized by 



Google 



142 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



3. Beef is the most nutritious of all meats, mutton comes 
second. Immature beef, or veal, is less nutritious and less 
digestible than beef. 

4. Good beef has a bright red color and yellowish fat. Prime 
beef has streaks of fat intermingled with the lean. Good mutton 
has a, dull red color with fat a clear white. 



Lesson XLVI 

Rolled Flank of Beef or Rolled Round of Beef 



Materials used: 
Class Rule 
For the stuffing: 
4 tb bread crumbs 
^ tp butter 
^ tp chopped parsley 
a few drops of onion juice 
a few grains of celery salt 
I tp salt 
a few grains of pepper 

For the meat: 
A small piece of steak 
a small piece of suet 

1 slice onion 

2 tb carrot 

J c stock or water 

Utensils needed: 
Meat pounder 
meat board 
bowl 

utensils for measuring 
clean cloth with which to wipe 



Home Rule 

2 c soft bread crumbs 
2 tb melted butter 
2 tb chopped parsley 
i tp onion juice, if desired 
2 tb cut celery or | tp 

celery salt 
i tp salt 
i tp pepper 

1 lb flank steak or a thinly 
cut round steak 

2 or 3 small pieces of suet 

1 onion 

i c carrot, cubed 

2 c stock or water 

sharp knife 

some clean string 

small baking pan with cover 

omelet pan 

the meat 



Digitized by 



Google 



MEATS 143 

Work to be done: 

1. Mix all the dry ingredients of the stuffing together. 

2. Slowly add the melted butter, stirring all the time. 

3. Cube the onion and carrot. 

4. Lay the steak upon the board; with the knife cut off the 
skin around the edges of the steak. 

5. Dampen the cloth and wipe the steak. 

6. Pound the steak on both sides. 

7. Spread the stuffing evenly over the steak and roll. 

8. Hold the roll together by means of a string. 

9. Dredge the roll with flour and sear in butter or drippings 
in the frying pan. 

10. Place the vegetables in the baking dish and lay the roll 
upon them. 

11. Place the suet on top of the roll. 

12. Sprinkle the roll with salt and pepper. 

13. Pour the water or stock into the pan. 

14. Cover the pan closely and cook for one-half hour in the 
oven. 

15. Then remove the cover and cook thirty minutes 
longer. 

16. Remove from the pan and make brown gravy from the 
drippings as was directed in the lesson on Hamburg steak. 
Serving: 

Place the rolled steak upon a warm oblong platter. Arrange 
around it vegetables, such as diced carrots or beets, green peas 
or shredded cabbage, or whatever vegetable is to be served at 
the dinner, in little heaps interspersed with leaves of parsley or 
delicate tips of celery. 
Principles: 

How does this method of cooking meat differ from stewing? 
How does it differ from roasting? What was the character of 
the meat used? How are the meat fibers and the connective 
tissues softened? How does this method differ from that used 
in Hamburg steak? 



Digitized by 



Google 



144 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

This method of cooking meat is called braising. Braising is 
a combination of stewing and roasting meat. The meat is 
really steamed in its own juices. Solid pieces of meat not tender 
enough for roasting or broiling, but too good for stewing or for 
soups, should be cooked in this way. Keeping the meat covered 
during the first half of the baking period retains the steam, 
which condenses as it rises and strikes the cover and falls back 
upon the meat, thus basting it. Removing the cover during 
the latter half allows the escape of the steam, thus permitting 
the contents of the pan to become brown. Why were the 
carrots and onion added to the pan? 

No moisture was added to the stuflEing; the juices of the 
meal will penetrate it while cooking, thus moistening it suflS- 
ciently. Because the meat used in this lesson was so very lean, 
the suet was placed on top of the meat. The heat of the oven 
melts the suet, which will then penetrate the meat and dressing, 
making it richer and more delicate. Why was the suet placed 
in the center of the rolled roast? Suet is often used in this way 
to give added delicacy a^nd juiciness to lean meat. Sometimes 
a piece of suet or strips of salt pork are inserted in the meat by 
means of special needles, called larding needles. The strips 
of pork are then called lardoons. 
Cleaning up: 

How should the utensils used in this lesson be cleaned? 
What has been learned: 

1. Braising is a method of cooking meat in which stewing 
and roasting are combined. 

2. Braising may be used with the tougher cuts of meat. 

3. Lean meat may be made more juicy and palatable by the 
addition of suet or salt pork. 



Digitized by 



Google 



MEATS 
Lesson XLVII 

Veal Cutlets* 



145 



Materials used: 
Class Rule 

1 small piece of veal 

2 tb egg 
1 tb flour 

1 tb bread crumbs 

1 tb butter or pork drippings 

f c brown sauce 

salt and pepper to taste 



Home Rule 
The desired amount of ^-inch 

slices from the leg of veal 
salt and pepper 
legg 
J c flour 
i c crumbs 

4 tb butter or pork drippings 
1| c brown sauce 




Fig. 48.— VeaJ Cutlets 

Utensils needed: 

Frying pan fork 

granite pan with cover spatula 

pie or other tin damp cloth 

utensils for measuring 3 plates 

Work to be done: 

1. Wipe the veal with a damp cloth, remove the bone and 
skin, and cut the meat into pieces suitable for serving. 

2. Beat the egg slightly and dilute it with J c water. 
*Slices from the leg of veal are called steaks or cutlets. 



Digitized by 



Google 



146 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

3. Place the egg and water on the plate. 

4. Place the flour on a flat plate and the crumbs on another. 

5. Place the fat in the frying pan and let it get hot. 

6. Dip both sides of a piece of veal in the flour, in the egg 
quickly, then in the crumbs. Use a fork throughout these 
operations. 

7. Place the covered veal in the frying pan; continue with 
the other pieces of veal. 

8. Let the veal brown on both sides; then sprinkle with salt 
and pepper. 

9. Place the veal in the granite pan, using the spatula, and 
cover it with brown sauce. 

Brown Sauce 
Materials used: 

Class Rule Home Rule 

i tb butter ^ 4 tb butter 

i tb flour 3 tb flour 

2 tb water i c water 

2 tb tomatoes J c stewed and strained 

seasonings to taste tomatoes 

lemon juice, if desired salt and pepper to taste 

Utensils needed: 

Pan in which the veal was browned 

utensils for measuring 
Work to be done: 

1. Combine by the white sauce method. (See Book One, 
Lesson VII.) 

2. Pour the sauce over the veal in the stew pan, bring it 
to the boiling point, and let it simmer forty minutes. 
Serving: 

Have a hot platter ready for the meat. Arrange the pieces of 
veal in the center and pour around them the brown sauce. 
Garnish with parsley. This makes a fine dish for the meat 
course at dinner. 



Digitized by 



Google 



MEATS 147 

Principles: 

In this lesson the veal is cooked by a combination of methods. 
It was first saut^ed in a small amount of fat until well browned 
on both sides; then it was stewed in a prepared sauce until 
tender. Veal is much less readily digested than is beef; for 
this reason it should be cooked long and carefully. It is very 
unwholesome if eaten rare; beef, on the other hand, is more 
nutritious when thus eaten. One scientist gives as a reason for 
this that in veal the tubes which make up the bundles have not 
become filled with juices, so that when the meat is chewed, they 
slip around instead of bursting, as happens in beef, whose tubes 
are full of juices and must burst when pressed as in chewing. 
Hence, one must accomplish in veal by cooking what is accom- 
plished in beef by chewing. '—-- 

A calf two months old furnishes the best veal. Such veal 
should be a pale pink or flesh color in appearance. The fat 
should be a clear white. It should never be tinged with yellow, 
as is the fat of beef. White lean veal should never be purchased ; 
it comes from calves which are too young, and is too unwhole- 
some to eat. 

Table Showing the Cuts of Veal and Their Uses 

Name of Piece How Cut How Used 

Breast Left whole or cut into 2-inch pieces Stewing or roasting 

Shoulder Same as the above Stewing or roasting 

Ribs Cut into chops or left whole Broiling or roasting 

Loin Cut into chops or larger pieces Broiling or roasting 

Leg Cut into slices or into larger pieces Broiling or roasting 

Cleaning up: 

Clean up as in the previous lessons on meat. 
What has been learned: 

1. Veal is a meat which is unwholesome and diflScult to 
digest unless well cooked. 

2. This is because the tubes comprising the bundles are not 
filled with juices. 



Digitized by 



Google 



148 



DOMESTIC SCIDXCE 



3. When meat needs a long and thorough cooking, it is 
often best to combine two methods of cooking. 

4. Saut^ing the veal brings out the flavor and gives it a 
good color; the stewing breaks down the walls cf the tubes. 

5. Location and uses of the cuts of veal. 



Lessen XLVm 



Broiled Ham 

Materials used: 

Class Rule Home Rule 

Small piece of thinly sliced Desired amount cf sliced 
ham ham 

Utensils needed: 
Frying pan 

fork and knife for turninr:; the ham 
cloth with which to dry the ham 
Work to be done: 

1. Place the ham in the pan and cover it with lukewarm 

water. 

2. Set the pan where 
the water will not 
cool. 

3. Let the ham soak 
for thirty minutes. 

4. Place the piece cf 
ham upon the towel 
and dry it thoroughly. 

5. Heat the pan sis 
hot as for broiling. 

6. Place the ham in 




Fig. 49.— Ham 



the pan and broil for three minutes or until done. 

Note to the Teaceer: If desired, more ham fat may be added to the 
pan and each pupil may be given an egg to fry. 



Digitized by 



Google 



MEATS 



149 



Serving: 

Place the ham in the center of a hot platter. If eggs are to 
l:e served with it, arrange them prettily along the sides cf the 
dish. Scrambled eggs may also be served with ham. 
Principles: 

In this lesson a fourth kind of meat is studied. Pork is the 
flesh of hogs. Europeans call us a nation of pork eaters, although 
this is the least used of any kind of meat among the American 
people. This is because it is more difficult of digestion than the 
other kinds of meat, and because it is more likely to contain 
5 germs. But the curing of the hams and bacon does away 




Fig. 50.— Pork on Hoof 

to some extent with this danger. For this reason and because 
of their delicate taste, ham and bacon are more often seen upon 
our tables than are roasts or chops of pork. 

Good, healthy, fresh pork should be a pale red color and firm. 
The fat should be white. The fat of pork is not hard and 
brittle as is that of beef and mutton; it is soft and oily to the 
touch. Fat salt pork of good quality is white or faintly tinged 
with pink. It should have a thin, fine-grained rind. 

Pork is likely to be infected with two parasites which are 
dangerous to man. A parasite is an animal or plant which does 
not get or make its own food, but which lives upon another plant 



Digitized by 



Google 



150 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



or animal. The two parasites which are often found in pork 
are the trichina and the bladder worm. The latter becomes a 
tape worm if it gets into the human body alive. It is diflScult 
to see with the naked eye whether pork is infected with trichina. 
These parasites get into the hog by means of filthy food. Once 
in the animal they find their way into its tissues, where they 
remain. They will not grow any more until they get into the 
digestive tract of a human being. In a person they cause a 
disease known as trichinosis, which is often fatal. The only 
method by which one can be absolutely sure of killing trichina 
is by thorough cooking. Smoking and curing have no effect 
upon them. For this reason no pork should be served upon our 
tables which is not thoroughly cooked. 

Pork which is infected by the bladder worm may be dis- 
tinguished by the naked eye. Such pork is lumpy or speckled. 
It is called measly pork. Such pork should never be bought. 
Thorough cooking will kill the bladder worm also, but it is safer 
to buy only healthy pork than to rely 
upon the cooking to kill the parasites 
that may be present. Even if the pork 
seems to be perfectly healthy, it should 
be cooked thoroughly to make doubly sure 
that no harm will result from eating it. 

Pork contains more fat than any other 
meat. It is this fat which makes it 
difficult for some people to digest pork. 
This large amount of fat makes it very 
valuable as a fuel food; but for this one 
reason it should never be abundantly 
used in summer. The fat of bacon, is, 
however, an exception to the remainder 
of the fat in the hog, for it is very easily 
digested. Some authorities place it just 
after butter and cream in this respect. The reason given for 
this is that bacon fat exists in a more granular form. 




Fig. 51.— Cuts of Pork 



Digitized by 



Google 



MEATS 151 

Apple sauce but slightly sweetened should be served whenever 
pork in any form is served. The acid which the apple contains 
is known to act so upon the fat globules of the pork that they are 
broken up and thus made more easy of digestion. 

Pork for roasting should never be put into a hot oven as is 
done with roasts of other meats. If the surface becomes seared, 
it is more diflScult for the heat to penetrate to the interior of 
the roast. Because of the danger of parasites, one should be 
sure that the heat does penetrate to the very center of the roast; 
this is assured when the meat is put into a moderately hot oven 
and gradually allowed to be heated through. Twenty-five or 
thirty minutes to the pound should be allowed for roasting pork. 

Table of the Cuts of Pork and Their Uses 

Divisions Ways of Cooking 

1. Hind foot Stewed, pickled, boiled or fried 

2. Ham Boiled, baked or steaks 

3. Rib belly Used for bacon 

4. Fat back Pickled or smoked 

5. Pork loin Chops and roasts 

6. California ham butt . . Cheaper steaks and roasts 

7. Picnic or California ham . Steaks and roasts — cheaper than 

ham (2) 

8. Fore foot Stewed, pickled, boiled or fried 

9. Neck . Stewed, baked, boiled or braised 

10. Spare ribs Baked or broiled 

Jowl, for boiling or headcheese 

Head Ears, for boiling with vegetables 

Snout, stewed or boiled 

Kidney Saut6, stews or boiling 

Heart Boiled, stewed 

Tails Boiled 

Cleaning up: 

Use plenty of hot water and soap. 



Digitized by 



Google 



152 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

What has been learned: 

1. Pork is much in disfavor because it is hard to digest and 
because it is Ukely to be diseased. 

2. Pork should always be thoroughly cooked to make sure 
that disease-producing organisms are killed. 

3. Apple sauce is served with pork whenever possible. 

4. Roasts of pork are cooked in a slow oven. 

5. The cuts and uses of pork. 



Lesson XLIX 

Liver and Bacon 
Materials used: 

Class Rule Home Rule 

Small pieces of liver 10 thin sUces of bacon 

sUced bacon 1 lb liver cut into slices 

1 tp bacon fat j inch thick 

1§ tp flour 2 tb bacon fat 

J c boiling water 1 tb flour 

2 c boiling water 
Utensils needed: 
Frying pan utensils for measuring 

piece of blotting paper on utensils with which to handle 

which to drain the bacon the meat 

a clean cloth 
Work to be done: 

1. Heat the frying pan. 

2. Place the sUces of bacon in the pan and saut^, turning 
frequently. 

3. When brown on both sides, remove the slices to the 
draining paper. Keep the bacon warm in the warming oven. 

4. Cut the Uver into suitable pieces for serving. 

5. Cover the liver with boiling water and let it stand five 
minutes. This draws out the blood. 



Digitized by 



Google 



^ICATS 153 

G. Remove the liver from the water, drain, and wipe dry. 

7. With a sharp knife remove the veins and skins. 

8. Sprinkle it with salt and pepper. 

9. Heat the pan which contains the bacon fat. 

10. Place the liver in the pan and saut^ first on one side and 
then on the other. 

11. When done, place the liver in the center of the platter. 

Cravy 

1. Take a tb of the bacon fat, mix \\ith it the 4 tb of flour, 
and brown. 

2. Add 2 c boiling water, let it boil, stirring continually. 
Serving: 

Pour the gravy over the slices of liver; arrange the bacon 
around the edges of the dish and serve. This dish is used for 
breakfast usually, but may also be used for a family dinner. 
Principles: 

In this lesson one of the internal organs of the beef or calf 
has been utilized for food. Other edible parts of the beef 
creature are brains, used in stews, scalloped dishes, and cro- 
quette; tongue, boiled or braised, either fresh or corned; heart, 
stuffed and braised; kidneys, stewed or saut^ed; the tail in soup, 
the thymus glands and pancreas of calves, both of which are 
known as sweetbreads, used the same as brains; and tripe, 
which is the stomach walls of the ox. 

The liver and kidneys resemble each other very closely in 
that they are very solid and contain but little connective tissue. 
They consist almost entirely of protein matter, hence are a 
strongly concentrated food. They are hard to digest because 
the absence of connective tissue makes them lack in bulk; 
for this reason, they should always be finely chewed. 

The heart resembles other meat very closely in physical 
structure, but is much denser than the other muscles. This 
makes it a little more difiicult of digestion, but for healthy 



Digitized by 



Google 



154 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

people it is very nutritious, and very economical because it 
costs but a few cents a pound. 

The thymus glands and the pancreas of calves are both sold, 
the former more than the latter, under the name of sweetbreads. 
The first-named are found in the neck of the calf; the latter is a 
digestive organ which lies near the stomach. Sweetbreads are 
regarded as a great delicacy. They are loosely held together by 
delicate connective tissue, the character of which makes them 
one of the most easily digested of protein foods. 

The connective tissue of tripe is changed into gelatin when 
boiled. This is easily digested, being as completely absorbed 
by the digestive tract as beef, but as the tripe is lacking in 
flavor, it is not used so much as it ought to be. 
Cleaning up: 

1. Pour any fat which may remain in the pan into the jar 
for bacon drippings. It makes an excellent substitute for butter 
in many foods. 

2. Wash all greasy utensils in warm, sudsy water, and rinse 
in clear, hot water. 

3. Use sapolio on any discolored or rough utensil. 
What has been learned: 

Many of the internal organs of the beef creature furnish 
excellent and cheap food. 



Additional Recipes 

Minced Meat on Toast 

Prepare the toast, place it on a platter, and keep it hot. Remove the 
gristle, fat, and bone from the cold cooked meat. Chop the meat very fine, 
measure it, and put it into a sauce pan; add } c gravy for each cup of meat. 
Season to taste with salt, pepper, and, if liked, with finely-chopped or 
grated onion, a few drops of onion juice, or a little Worcestershire sauce. 
Grated nutm^ may he added to lamb or mutton, if liked. Place the sauce- 
pan over the heat, and stir until the meat is heated. Pour it over the hot 
toast and serve at once. 



Digitized by 



Google 



MEATS 155 

Cottage Pie 

Prepare the meat as directed for meat on toast, and put it into a baking 
dish. Cover the top with a thick layer of well-season^ mashed potatoes. 
Use a fork to form the potatoes into a mound, with the highest point in 
the center. Bake on the grate of the oven until the potatoes are slightly 
browned on top. More gravy will be needed than for the meat on toast, 
as part of it will be absorbed by the mashed potatoes. 

Hash 

Prepare the meat as for cottage pie. Chop some cold cooked potatoes 
rather fine. Take equal parts of potatoes and meat, mix together and 
moisten with gravy, water, or milk. (Allow from a teaspoonful to a table- 
spoon of Hquid for each cup of hash.) K the hash is very dry, use more 
liquid. Season to taste. Heat a teaspoonful of it in a frying pan. If a 
great deal of hash is being made, more fat will be needed. Spread the hash 
evenly on the bottom of the pan, cover, and place where the hash will heat 
slowly until a brown crust is formed on the bottom. Slip a knife under the 
hash, fold over double, and turn out on a warm platter. The hash may be 
formed into small cakes, rubbed over the top with melted butter, placed on 
a buttered baking pan, and heated on the grate of a rather hot oven until 
slightly browned on top. The materials used in making hash may also be 
heated in a saucepan with enough milk or gravy to keep them from 
burning. Stir until heated thoroughly and serve at once. 

Beef Stew 

3 lb beef 1 carrot 

2 tb flour 4 potatoes 

2 onions sliced water 

1 turnip salt and pepper 

Use beef from the neck, shoulder, or back part of the round. Prepare 
the meat as was directed in the lesson on Lamb Stew. Divide it into two 
portions; if the meat seems very fat, remove a part of it, try out in a frying 
pan and use it in place of butter in which to brown the meat and onion. 
Put the poorer portion of the meat in the kettle, cover with cold water, and 
proceed as directed in the lesson. Roll the more choice pieces in flour, 
place them in the smoking hot fat with the onions, and brown on all sides. 
When browned, put the meat and onions in the kettle, if the water is boiling. 
Rinse out the frjdng fat with a little of the water and return it to the kettle. 
Be sure the water boils. Then take the kettle off the heat, or lower the 
the flame so that the mixture will only simmer until the meat is tender. 



Digitized by 



Google 



156 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Prepare the turnip and carrot and cut into thin slices or into one-half inch 
dice. Three-fourths of an hour before the stew is to be served, move the 
kettle where the water will boil, add the turnip and carrot, and bring down to 
simmering point. Wash and pare the potatoes, cut into quarters, parboil five 
minutes, drain, and add them to the stew ; simmer twenty minutes. Season 
to taste with salt and pepper, and add boiling water, if necessary. The 
liquid should come to the top, but should not cook the vegetables. The 
stew may be thickened with flour, if desired. If dumplings are to be 
used, add them the last ten minutes, taking care that they rest on the pieces 
of meat. Let the stew boil gently the ten minutes in which the dmnplings 
are cooking. 

DUMPUNGS 

2 c flour 1 tp salt 

4 tp baking powder f c water or milk 

Sift the dry ingredients together; add the liquid gradually. Drop by the 
spoonful upon the stew. 

Beef Loaf 

2 lb beef cut from the round 1 tb chopped parsley 

i tp onion juice 2-in. cube salt fat pork 

1 tp salt 1 c bread crumbs 

} tp pepper J c milk 

1 beaten egg 
Wipe the meat. Put it through a meat chopper with the salt pork. 
Add the seasonings and mix well. Add the crumbs, egg, and milk gradually, 
mixing all the time. Knead imtil spongy. Shape into a loaf. Place in a 
pan and put thin slices of fat salt pork on top of the loaf. Bake 40 
minutes Baste every ten minutes or so, if the mixture seems to need it, 
with 1 tb butter melted in 1 c boiling water. Serve with tomato sauce. 

Veal Loaf 
Follow rule for Beef Loaf, but use veal instead of beef. 

Veal Birds 

Stuffing: Class Rule Home Rule 

3 tb crumbs 2 c soft bread crumbs 

i tp butter 2 tb melted butter 

J tp chopped parsley 2 tb chopped parsley 

a few drops of onion juice 1 tp onion juice 

a few grains of celery salt 2 tb celery cut or J tp celery salt 

i tp salt i tp salt 

a few grains of pepper i tp pepper 



Digitized by 



Google 



MEATS 157 

Have thin slices of veal cut from the leg or the shoulder. Wipe the 
elices. Pound the meat on both sides, and cut into pieces two by three 
inches. Spread the pieces with stuffing, roll and tie, sprinkle with salt 
and pepper, and dredge with flour. Brown in hot butter. Put in a stew 
pan, cover with thin white sauce, and cook slowly until tender. Serve 
on small circular or square pieces of toast, cover with the sauce, and garnish 
with parsley. 

Cecils with Tomato Sauce 

1 c cold roast beef or steak onion juice 

salt and pepper Worcestershire sauce 

yolk of egg slightly beaten 2 tb bread crumbs 

1 tb melted butter 
Chop the meat fine. Mix with it all the seasonings. Add the remain- 
ing ingredients; shape into small pointed rolls. Roll in flour, egg, and 
crumbs and saut6. Serve with tomato sauce. 

Casserole of Rice and Meat 

Line a mold, slightly greased, with cold boiled or steamed rice. Mix 
two cups cold, finely-chopped cooked mutton, seasoned well with salt, 
pepper, celery salt, onion juice, and lemon juice, with i c cracker crumbs, 
one egg sUghtly beaten, and enough hot water or stock to moisten. Cover 
the meat with rice, cover the cup with oiled paper to keep out the moisture 
while steaming and steam forty-five minutes. Serve on a platter sur- 
rbimded with tomato sauce. 

Creamed Sweetbreads 

Sweetbreads spoil very readily and for this reason they should be 
removed from their wrapping paper as soon as they are brought from the 
market, and plunged into cold water, in which they should remain one 
hour. Then they should be drained and put into boiling salted water into 
which a few drops of vinegar have been poured. Cook slowly twenty 
minutes, drain, and plunge into cold water, which will keep them white 
and firm. Always parboil them in this way before cooking them for 
serving. 

For creamed sweetbreads, cut the parboiled sweetbreads into one-half 
inch cubes. Make a cup of thin white sauce. Place the cubes of sweet 
breads in it and reheat. Serve on toast for breakfast. 



Digitized by 



Google 



158 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Stuffed Heakts with Vegetables 
The Stuffing: 

} c cracker crumbs i tp pepper 

} c stale bread crumbs a few drops of onioh juice 

J c melted butter i c hot water 

} tp salt 

Mix ingredients in the order given. 

Clean and wash the calves' hearts, stuff, and skewer into shape. Insert 
lardoons, season with salt and pepper, and dredge with flour. Place some 
pork fat in the frying pan and heat as hot as for Hambiu*g steak. Place 
the hearts in the pan and add to the fat one stalk of celery, 1 tb chopped 
onion, 2 sprigs of parsley, 4 slices of carrot cut in pieces, J as much of turnip, 
a bit of dry leaf, 2 cloves and J tp peppercorns. Turn hearts so they will 
brown on all sides, also turn the vegetables so that they do not bum. 
When the hearts are well browned, add li c water, cover and let them 
simmer li hours. Serve with cooked carrots and tmnips cut in strips 
or fancy shapes. 

Mint Sauce 

i c finely chopped mint leaves 1 tb sugar 

i c vinegar 

Wash the mint leaves, dry, and chop very fine. Mix the sugar and 
vinegar and add the mint leaves. Let the mixture stand fifteen or twenty 
minutes in a warm place before serying. 



Lesson L 

Our Meat Supply 

Nutritive value of beef cuts: 

By "meat supply'' we are apt to mean beef supply, since we 
are a nation of beef-eaters, with bacon and ham and mutton 
holding second place in our meat diet. We may congratulate 
ourselves on our liking for beef, since it is meat that gives to the 
system the greatest vigor and energy, both of brain and body. 

It is a curious fact that the cheaper cuts of beef contain the 
most nourishment, and another curious fact that people of 



Digitized by 



Google 



MEATS 159 

moderate means, even poor people, use the more expensive 
cuts. Why? Because the average American housewife does 
not know how to cook the cheaper cuts in such a way as to make 
them palatable, whereas people of wealth employ foreign cooks 
in their kitchens and these cooks, or chefs, know the superior 
value of the cheaper cuts and how to prepare them in their most 
palatable form. Ribs and loins are expensive, and yet it is for 
these cuts the average housewife asks when hurrying home from 
an afternoon's shopping to prepare dinner for the family. 

Boiled beef is the most healthful of all and it is best when 
prepared from the cheaper cuts because these cuts are full of 
tough, juicy muscles. By boiling they are made tender and 
digestible, burdening the stomach but a fraction of the time 
required to digest beefsteak, pork, or even chicken. The United 
States government prescribes an an ideal ration the simple 
one of boiled beef, bread, and molasses. 
Sources of beef supply: 

Although the rising prices of all meats would seem to indicate 
a scarcity of the supply, the United States actually produces 
more than enough meat for its own use. The surplus is sent 
to England and other foreign countries. We export more than 
$50,000,000 worth each year and, in addition, many shiploads 
of live cattle. 

To trace our meat supply from the first home of the frolicsome 
calf to the nine different cuts of beef which can be purchased 
in the best shop, is to go, in imagination at least, to the myriads 
of stock farms in the Mississippi Valley where fully one-half 
of the beeves are grown, or to the great semi-arid plains that lie 
east of the Rocky Mountains from the Canadian border all 
the way to Texas. These vast feeding grounds extend into the 
Rockies, particularly to those sections preserved as national 
forests. 

There, beside a hurrying brook glinting its shallow course 
beneath the hot sunlight, you may see a little red calf on wobbly 
legs, bom of range stock; he is rough of coat and hardy of 



Digitized by 



Google 



160 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

constitution. This enables him to withstand the cold of the 
mountain winters and their scant food, and it brings him a 
secondary place in the market quotations after he has grown ta 
steerhood and taken his inevitable place in tl:e stock car and 
finally the stock yards in Kansas City, Chica;;;o, St. Paul, or 
some other packing city. For the farm-bred animal makes 
what is known as '* prime l?eef ," while the cattle from the ranges, 
being of coarser fibre and bearing the unmistakable flavor, 
bring a somewhat lower price. As the cost of raising them is 
much less than the cost of raising farm cattle, the owners of 
range cattle can sell them for less and still make a larger profit. 
Wherever the rainfall is too scant for farming, but sufficient 
in the spring to cause a sparse growth of grass, which is later 
dried up by the scorching rays of the sun and the hot winds 
which sweep over that area, there enormous herds of cattle and 
sheep range throughout the year. 
Western cattle ranches: 

A great deal of the land in these regions is owned by the 
state governments, and anyone who wishes to do so may 
pasture his herds and flocks upon it by paying a small annual 
fee to the state. But nowadays large ranches are appearing 
wherever the water supply is sufficient to warrant them, and 
instead of "range'' cattle, the majority of the cattle shipped to 
the great markets are ranch cattle. Close to the mountains 
and in the stream-fed canyons you may still meet "bunches" 
of surprised-looking cattle, ea3h group led b/ a ma3terful great 
bull, just as the herds of buffalo were led fifty years ago in tho 
same canyons and on the same plains. Cattle ranching is 
often inomensely profitable and a large ranch is likely to bo 
equipped with every city comfort and convenience, from a 
telephone which forms part of the miles of wire fence, to a 
school and store. 

Both on the ranches and the ranges, branding is still prac- 
ticed, though many believe it should be aboUshed and some 
more humane system of designating cattle be substituted for it. 



Digitized by 



Google 



MEATS 161 

What is known as the "running iron'' is illegal in most states, 
but it is none the less widely used although it is regarded as less 
humane than the shaped brand, which requires but an instant 
of application to leave a permanent mark. 
From ranch to market: 

Nowadays one sees almost as many cowboys in the stockyards 
in Kansas City, Chicago, St. Louis, and Omaha as at any one of 
the semi-annual round-ups on the plains. The cattle ready for 
shipping are cut out of the great western herds, placed in cattle 
cars, and transported as rapidly as possible to the packing 
plants, being carefully fed and watered along the way to comply 
with government regulations. In the atmosphere of the great 
packing cities, they are placed in the selling pens, and shrewd 
buyers for the packing plants ride down the lanes between the 
pens to examine the latest arrivals. If their offers please the 
commission men in charge of the herds, the carload may be 
quickly sold. If not, the cattle remain in their pen one day, 
two days, or even more before they find a buyer. Trained 
buyers can tell almost the exact weight of an animal by a single 
keen glance. They can gauge his condition as well, assuring 
themselves of the quality of the meat and the proportions of fat. 
By-products of meat: 

A visit to the stockyards on a busy morning will teach the 
novice many things. He will \>e surprised to learn that the 
packers may pay more for a hve steer than they are able to get 
out of him by the sale of the beef. The steer may have cost, 
say $80, while the beef from him sold for but $60. How, then, 
can the packer make a profit? Simply by utilizing the by- 
products. The bones, the horns, the hoofs, parts of the viscera, 
hide, blood, and other parts of the animal not available for food, 
provide the actual source of profit besides paying the cost of 
slaughtering and dressing the animal, shipping, and keeping 
accounts. It is to the inventor of uses for the by-products we 
owe the fact that the cost of meat is not still higher. Since 
inventors are still working on the problem of by-products, it is 



Digitized by 



Google 



162 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

possible that some time the packer will be able to sell us the meat 
for half of what he pays for the live animal, and still make a 
profit for himself. 
Government inspection of meat: 

Before and after the steer is killed and dressed, he is inspected 
by a government official, who switches him to another room 
for more thorough examination by other inspectors in case there 
is reason to suspect a diseased condition. 
Kosher meats: 

Near the slaughter booths are several Jewish rabbis, killing 
and preparing what is known as kosher meat. 

Kosher means proper, and this meat is acceptable to ortho- 
dox Jews, because it has been killed according to certain 
requirements made by Jewish law. One of these requirements 
is that an exceedingly sharp knife shall be used. Another 
is that the animal shall be so securely bound that it 
can not possibly move and that the knife shall enter the 
neck at a certain point. These requirements have their 
origin in the desire to kill the animal in the most humane 
way. 
Beef cuts: 

After thp steer is dressed and left for a few days to "ripen'' 
in the cooler, he is divided into the different cuts, named on 
page 128. Of these the ribs and loins are the high-priced cuts. 
This is largely due to the fact that nearly every housekeeper 
knows how to prepare them. Many of the cheaper cuts, as 
has been said, are more nutritious. It is, in fact, absurd that 
the width of a line, which is nothing at all, can mark the differ- 
ence between meat costing seventeen cents and that costing 
five cents. Yet those are the relative prices of cuts that have 
only a knife blade between them. 
Cooking meats: 

It will be readily seen then that methods in cookery have much 
to do with the prices of meats. When culinary experts prove 
themselves as clever at utilizing the cheaper grades of beef as 



Digitized by 



Google 



MEATS 163 

the inventors are at utilizing the by-products, the problem of 
cheaper and better living will be solved. 
Preservation of meats: 

Since not all the cattle that are slaughtered are used up 
immediately, there must be some method of preservation of the 
meat until the time comes for its consumption. Much of it 
is canned in a way similar to that used for canning fruit. Other 
large quantities are kept by pickling in brine and then smoking^ 
as is done with ham and bacon. Some meat, such as corned 
beef, is kept by merely pickling. Dried beef is pickled before 
it is dried. But by far the greatest amount of beef is kept by 
refrigeration. The carcasses are sent immediately after they 
are dressed to the cooling room, where they are kept in a tem- 
perature near the freezing point. From there they are loaded 
into refrigerator cars and shipped any distance desired. If the 
beef is to be kept a number of months it may be frozen solid 
and held in that condition. If the beef is to be exported to 
foreign lands, it is sent to one of the large seaports where it is 
placed in the refrigeration chambers of the steamships which 
carry it to Europe. Even in the hottest weather, this can be 
safely done, the meat arriving at its destination as fresh and 
sound as it was on the day it was killed. 
Ripening meat: 

The *' ripening" of meat is an important process and should 
never be omitted. Meat juices contain two important proteins 
— ^myosin and haemoglobia. Myosin clots after the animal is 
killed, causing a hardening of the muscle fibers, known as 
rigor mortis. Meat in this condition is tough and cannot be 
made tender by cooking. But in two or three days an acid is 
developed which dissolves the myosin clot and renders the meat 
tender. This acid also greatly inproves the flavor of the meat* 
Care of meat: 

When meat is brought into the home, it should be removed 
from its wrapping of paper, which, if allowed to remain around 
it, would absorb the meat juices. The meat should be placed 



Digitized by 



Google 



164 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

on a platter and set in the ice box — ^neveron the ice nor in the ice 

chamber, but in the shelved part. 

Conq[MUJson of nutritive value of meat and vegetables : 

All the chief sources of protein have now been studied. 
What protein is obtained from the legumes? from wheat? 
from milk? Of all these sources of protein, the most important 
is meat. It is thus important because every pound of meat 
contains a great deal of protein, and meat is a food which is 
well liked by everyone and which seems to agree with all. Scien- 
tists have discovered that about 97 per cent of the protein 
furnished by meat is used by the body; but only about 84 
per cent of the vegetable proteins are so used. Scientists have 
also investigated the amount of vegetable protein and animal 
protein which ought to be supplied in the diet, and they have 
reached the conclusion that about three-fourths of the protein 
should be supplied in a vegetable form and the remainder by 
the flesh of animals. 

There is an economic reason for this also. Vegetables cost 
much less than meats, furnishing much more nutrient for the 
same expenditure of money. For this reason, a great many 
I)eople supply their protein requirements by a wise selection of 
vegetable foods and in that way they reduce the cost of living 
to a considerable extent. 



Digitized by 



Google 



SOUPS 

Lesson LI 

BjiowN Soup Stock 
Materials used: 

3 lb raw meat from the shin or 
2 lb raw meat and 1 lb cooked 
meat 

3 heaping tb each of onion, car- 
rot, and turnip cut into i- 
inch cubes 
Utensils needed: 

Frying pan 

sharp knife 

soup kettle 

2 fine strainers 

long-handled skimmer 

a small piece of cheesecloth 



1 stalk or root of celery- 
bit of bay leaf 
a sprig of parsley 

2 peppercorns 
1 tb salt 

3 qt cold water 



utensils for measuring 
earthen bow} or crock 
small bowl 
utensils with which to prepare 

vegetables 
clean cloth for wiping the 
meat 
Work to be done: 

1. Have the pieces of meat cut up into suitable pieces by 
the butcher. 

2. With a sharp knife remove the marrow from the inside 
of the hollow bone. 

3. Place the pan on the fire, put the marrow into the pan, 
and try out. 

4. Place one-third of the meat in the pan and brown it on 
all sides. Observe the same rule as when making stews. 

5. Place the remainder of the meat and all of the bone in 
the soup kettle and cover with the cold water. Let it soak one 
hour. 

165 



Digitized by 



Google 



166 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 




6. Bring the soup slowly to the boiling point and then allow 
it to simmer. 

7. Add the meat in the pan to the soup as soon as it is browned. 

8. Let it simmer for four or five hours. 

9. Prepare the vegetables. 

10. Remove any scum which rises while the soup is simmering. 

11. Add the vegetables 
and salt to the soup about 
one hour before the soup is 
to be removed from the fire. 

12. When the meat is in 
shredS; remove the big 
pieces of bone with the 
long-handled skimmer. 
Place the meat in the 
earthen bowl. 

13. Fit the strainer over 
the crock and strain the 
soup through it into the 
crock. 

14. Set the crock in a cool place until the next day. 

15. Remove all pieces of meat from the bones with a sharp 
knife, place the meat in a bowl, and set it away in the ice box. 
What uses may be made of this meat? 

Note to the Teacher: Because of the length of time which it takes 
to make soup stock, it would seem best, in order that the pupils may see all 
the processes, to cut the lesson into halves, doing the first half of the work 
one day, and finishing the process the next day. This can be very easily 
done if the soup lesson is given in winter because there is then no danger 
of the soup spoiling. 

16. If the soup is to be used immediately, skim off as much as 
possible of the fat from its surface. 

17. Place the fat in a cup and save for drippings. 

18. Remove the remainder of the fat from the soup by passing 
absorbent paper over its surface. 



Fig. 62.— Removing Fat with 
Absorbent Paper 



Digitized by 



Google 



SOUPS 167 

To cjfiar the soup: 

1. Measure the amount of stock to be cleared, either by the 
cupful or the quart, and put it into a sauce pan. 

2. Take an egg for every four cups, or 1 quart, of stock. 

3. Wash the egg with cold water. 

4. Break the egg and separate the white from the 
yolk. 

5. Beat the white slightly. Crush the egg shell. 

6. Stir the white and the egg shell into the soup and bring 
to the boiling point. 

7. Let the soup boil for two minutes, stirring all the time. 

8. Fit a piece of fine cheesecloth into a fine strainer. Fit 
another fine strainer over the cloth. This second strainer 
prevents the soup from clotting the cheesecloth. 

9. Strain the soup through the strainer. 
Serving: 

Brown soup stock is often made the foundation for other 
soups, as tomato soup, vegetable soup, and noodle soup. For 
service of soups made with stock see Lesson LII. 
Table etiquette: 

The soup plates or cup should never be tipped to get the 
last of the soup into the spoon. 
Principles: 

Beef is the best meat to use in soup-making because of its 
rich flavor and because it is less expensive than the other meats. 
The middle cuts of either the fore or hind shin are best because 
they contain just about the right proportion of meat, bone, and 
fat, that is, two-thirds of lean meat and one-third fat and bone. 
The lowest cut of shin can be used with the middle cut, as alone 
it is too poor in meat to make a satisfactory soup. 

Bone should never be omitted when brown stock is to be made, 
and never added when consomm6 is to be made. Bone seems 
to be a very hard substance, yet it contains a great deal of mate- 
rial which is soluble in water. This material, collagen, is found 
in all connective tissue, tendon, cartilage, and bone. When it 



Digitized by 



Google 



168 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

comes in contact with boiling water, it is changed to gglatin, 
which is soluble in hot water. It is this gelatin which makes 
the soup stiffen when it is allowed to cool. The gelatin out of 
which desserts are made is the same substance. When the 
lowest cut of the shin is purchased for soup, the housewife gets 
a large quantity of bone. This will give a soup rich in gelatin, 
but lacking in flavor, because there is not much meat on this 
cut and it is the meat which yields the flavor. What 
substance in meat gives the flavor? For this reason the house- 
wife should purchase a little piece of cheap lean meat to go 
with the cut for soup. 

The shin bone is especially valuable for soup because it is 
hollow and all hollow bones contain marrow, or bone-fat. 
The marrow adds a delicate flavor to the soup, and the fat, when 
not removed from the soup, serves the same purpose in the body 
as does fat from other sources. 

Soup is not allowed to boil because it is desired to obtain as 
much of the nutrient of the meat in solution as possible. But 
even so, the albumin and other proteins of the meat are coagu- 
lated by the heat of cooking and but very little of the nutrient 
is extracted. Soup as ordinarily made contains only about 5% 
solids and these are made up of gelatin, some mineral matter, 
fat, and extractives. This is the reason that soup meat should 
never be thrown away, but should be utilized by warming over 
in some way. Such meat must be very richly seasoned when it 
is warmed over because the hot water dissolves most of the 
extractives into the soup and consequently the remaining meat 
tastes flat and insipid. 

Meat for soup should not be cut larger than in two-inch 
pieces, because the smaller the pieces the greater is the amount 
of surface exposed to the action of the water and, in consequence, 
the greater is the amount of extractives and other solids which 
passes into the stock. Why is a part of the meat browned before 
it is put into the water? Would it be necessary to brown any 
of the meat if part of it had been cooked before? 



Digitized by 



Google 



SOUPS 169- 

Since albumins and the other proteins are soluble only in cold 
water, the meat is soaked for an hour in cold water and then 
brought to the boiling point. But as albumin is hardened by- 
heat, it rises to the surface of the water as scum, which is usually 
removed by skimming. Any solid particles that are held in 
suspension in the soup are removed if the stock is cleared with 
egg, and the soup is left very beautifully clear, but some nutri- 
ents are also removed from it. 

It is always best to prepare the stock a day before it is to be 
used; having kept it in a cool place, all the fat will rise to the 
surface, where it will form a hard cake which can be much more 
easily removed than can the fat from a hot stock. If more stock 
has been made than can be used at once, the fat should be 
allowed to remain in the stock that is not used, for the fat keeps 
the air out of the soup and so, of course, bacteria as well. If 
stock is kept free from bacteria, it will keep indefinitely, espec- 
ially during the cooler parts of the year. 

This gives us another reason why soup bones containing a 
great deal of marrow should be chosen. If stock is to be kept 
some time during the sununer, it should never have vegetables 
added to it, for stock in which are vegetable extractives spoils 
more readily than does stock made only from meat. 
Cleaning up: 

1. Place all vegetables and meat scraps in the garbage can. 

2. Collect all usable vegetables and place them in suitable 
utensils in the ice box or pantry. 

3. Soak the cheesecloth in hot, sudsy water, wash well, rinse 
in boiling water, and hang up to dry. 

4. Clean all utensils according to rule. 
What has been learned: 

1. A combination of two-thirds lean meat and one-third fat 
and bone makes the best soup cut. 

2. Beef is best to use in soup because it is less expensive than 
other meats and richer in extractives, or flavoring materials. 

3. The best cut to use for soup is the middle cut of the shin. 



Digitized by 



Google 



170 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



* 4. Albumin and other proteins are extracted from the meat 
by cooking in cold water. 

5. When soup is heated to the boiling point, the albumin and 
other proteins are coagulated and rise to the surface as scum. 

6. Skimming stock and clearing it with white of egg makes the 
stock clear, but it also removes considerable nutritive material. 

7. A layer of fat left on the stock prevents the entrance of 
bacteria and thus keeps the stock sweet. ' 



Lesson LII 



Tomato Soup with Stock 



Note to the Teacher: For this lesson the teacher should have pre- 
pared a sufficient amount of soup stock to supply the class or use the stock 
prepared in the previous lesson. 



Materials used: 




Class Rule 


Home Rule 


I c soup stock 


1 qt brown stock 


i c tomatoes 


1 qt tomatoes 


1 tp sugar 


2 tp sugar 


3 drops onion juice 


onion juice or J c diced onion 


or i tp onion, diced 


celery salt or J c diced celery 


1 tp celery salt or 


2 tb cornstarch 


J tb diced celery 


cold cooked macaroni 


1 tb cornstarch 


salt and pepper 


two or three pieces cooked 


4 tb butter 


macaroni 




salt and pepper 




i tb butter 




Utensils needed: 




Granite pan 


sharp knife 


omelet pan 


bowl 


utensils for measuring 


sieve 




Digitized by GoOQIc 



SOUPS 



171 



Work to be done: 

1. Prepare the vegetables. 

2. Put the butter m the omelet pan and brown the vegetables. 

3. Add the tomatoes. 

4. Mix the cornstarch with enough water to make it pour. 

5. Add cornstarch to the mixture and let it simmer thirty 
minutes. Do not let it bum. 

6. Rub the whole through a sieve into the granite pan. 

7. Add the stock, season with salt and pepper to taste, 
garnish with the macaroni, and serve with crisped crackers. 

Crisped Crackers 

Spread common crackers thinly with butter, put in a pan, 
and bake until deUcately browned. 
Serving: 

Soups made with stock, unlike the cream soups, contain but 
very little nutritive material. For this reason and because of 
their stimulating properties, they are served at the beginning 
of the dinner. Croutons or crisped crackers are passed with 
the soup. A ladle- 
ful of the soup to 
each person is con- 
sidered sufficient. 
Table etiquette : 

Soup is sipped 
from the side of the 
spoon. 
Principles: 

In Book 




Fig. 53. — Soup Service 



One, 

cream soups were made. These are very nutritious because they 
are made with milk as a foundation and also contain a great deal 
of vegetable food. At what meals are such soups served? 

This soup is different, for it is made with stock as a foundation. 
Stock consists of the soluble portions of the meat and bone and 
sometimes vegetables and other ingredients, all held in solution 



Digitized by 



Google 



172 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

by water. Such soups are called soups with stock. There are 
various kinds of soups made from stock just as there are several 
different soups made from milk. 

Bouillon, with the exception of clam bouillon, is made from 
lean beef. It is delicately seasoned and served very clear. 

Brown soup stock, as its name indicates, is highly colored. 
It is made of about two-thirds lean beef and the remainder bone 
and fat. Because of the color desired, cooked meat may be 
used. Such stock is highly seasoned with vegetables, spices, 
and sweet herbs. 

White soup stock, as might be inferred, is made from white 
meats, such as chicken or veal. It should have delicate season- 
ings. 

Consomm^, like bouillon, is served clear. It is made from two 
or three kinds of meat, beef, veal, and fowl being most generally 
used. It, like brown soup stock, is always highly seasoned. 

Lamb stock is made from lamb. It should be delicately 
seasoned. 

Such soups as these contain but very little nourishment. 
For this reason, they are more suitable to serve as the first 
course at a dinner, because they will then be followed by the 
meat and salad courses, which will supply an abundance of 
nutrients. Served at the beginning of the dinner, they stimu- 
late the appetite and prepare the stomach for its work of diges- 
tion. This effect is due to the extractives of the meat. 

What is a "binding?'' Of what were the bindings made in 
the cream soups? What was used to make the binding for the 
tomato soup? In a soup like this, the heavier vegetables would 
settle to the bottom unless all the ingredients were bound 
together by some starchy substance. One-third cup of flour 
could just as well have been used. 

Other seasonings which might have been added are some 
finely chopped parsley, one-half teaspoon of peppercorns, a 
small bay leaf, a few cloves, two or three sprigs of thyme, and 
one-fourth cup carrot. As this soup is made from brown soup 



Digitized by 



Google 



SOUPS 173 

stock, it will admit of very high seasonings, and all that the 
housewife will need to consider are the kinds of flavorings which 
will blend well together. 
Cleaning up: 

1. Place all vegetable refuse in the garbage can. 

2. Place any vegetables which may be utilized in suitable 
dishes in the pantry or ice box, according to their nature. 

3. Clean all utensils according to rules previously given. 
What has been learned: 

1. Stock consists of the soluble parts of meat, bone, and 
vegetable. 

2. Bouillon, brown soup stock, white soup stock, consomm^, 
and lamb stock are the stocks made from meat. 

3. Such soups contain less nourishment than cream soups, 
hence they may be served as the first course at dinner. 

4. Their chief value lies in their stimulating effect upon 
the digestive organs. 

5. When vegetables are added to them, it is sometimes nec- 
essary to add a binding also. 



Lesson LIU 

Noodle Soup 
Materials used: 

Class Rule Home Rule 

i egg 3 eggs 

pinch of salt | tp salt 

flour flour 

J c stock required amount brown soup 

stock 
Utensils needed: 

2 granite pans rolling pin 

egg beater sharp knife 
bowl 



Digitized by 



Google 



174 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Work to be done: 

1. Beat the egg slightly. Add salt. 

2. Add the flour to the egg gradually. It should make a 
stiff dough. 

3. Knead the dough for 15 or 20 minutes or until elastic. 

4. Roll it into a sheet as thin as paper. 

5. Cover the dough with a cloth and let it stand for 30 
minutes. 

6. Roll the sheet of dough into a roll just as the jelly cake 
was rolled. 

7. With a sharp knife cut strips one-fourth inch wide from 
the roll. 

8. Place the soup upon the fire to heat. 

9. Pour some boiling water into the second granite pan; 
add a teaspoonf ul of salt. 

10. Add the noodles to the water and let them boil for 15 
minutes. 

11. Place the noodles in the hot soup and serve. 
Serving: 

For serving, see previous lesson. 
Table etiquette: 

Great care should be taken to make no noise of the lips in 
eating soup. 
Principles: 

What are the food elements found in wheat flour? Which 
are found in the eggs? How, then, does the addition of the 
noodles increase the food value of the soup? 

Since noodles contain all the food elements in quite good 
proportion, they form a very valuable food and increase the 
nutritive value of the soup a great deal. Noodles may also 
be used in consomm^. 

Although soup stock does not in itself contain much nutritive 
material, yet it can be the means by which considerable nourish- 
ment may be consumed. There are many other preparations 
which, when added to stock, increase its nutritive value. The 



Digitized by 



Google 



SOUPS 175 

most important of these are the various paste preparations^ 
such as alphabet paste, Italian paste, macaroni, and spaghetti. 
These contain considerable gluten in combination with the 
starch, hence they are valuable adjuncts to the soup. Spaghetti 
and macaroni are usually broken into suitable lengths; the latter 
may also be cut into rings after it is cooked. In all instances 
these pastes should be cooked by themselves in boiling salted 
water and added to the soup as a garnish just before it is to be 
served. Tapioca is a pure starch preparation used in soup. 
Pearl barley and rice are cereals often used in the same way. 
Both should be cooked separately, the former for three hours or 
more, and added just as are the paste preparations. 
Cleaning up: 

Follow directions in the previous lesson. 
What has been learned: 

1. Paste preparations, cereals, vegetables, or other ingredients 
added to soup stock increase its nutritive value. 



Digitized by 



Google 



GELATIN 

Lesson LIV 

^r J, . t J Lemon Jelly 

Materials used: 

Class Rule Home Rule 

1 tp gelatin (granulated) 2 tb gelatin 

1 tb cold water J c cold water 

2 tb boiling water 2i c boiling water 
2 tb sugar 1 c sugar 

1 tb lemon juice J c lemon juice 

a stick of cinnamon cinnamon 

TJtensils needed: 

Bowls mold lemon squeezer 

teaspoon sieve piece of cheesecloth 

Work to be done: 

1. Soak the gelatin in cold water. 

2. Add the boiling water. A stick of cinnamon and a piece of 
lemon peel boiled in the water will add a pleasing flavor. 

3. Stir a little to dissolve the gelatin, but be careful not to 
stir too much, as this will result in a stringy product. 

4. Add the sugar, and, when cool, the lemon juice. 

5. Wring a piece of cheesecloth out of hot water, place it over 
a sieve and strain the liquid into a mold which has been dipped 
in cold water. 

6. Set the jelly in a cool place. Be sure that it stands level. 
A white and fluffy mixture can be obtained by beating the 
gelatin mixture while of a jelly-like consistency with a Dover 
egg beater. 

Serving: 

Place a paper lace doily on a fancy plate. Unmold the jelly 
either by: 

176 



Digitized by 



Google 




GELATIN 177 

1. Putting the mold into a pan of hot water for a moment. 

2. Wrapping a cloth wrung out of hot water around the mold, 
loosening the top with a knife and unmolding. 

Be careful to place the jelly in the center of the dish as it 
cannot be moved after unmolding. After it has been put on 
the plate, it should be 
garnished with 
whipped cream. 

Another method of 
serving the jelly is to 
make it less stiff, break 
it up lightly, and serve 
in a compote dish, or ^^- S^.-Different Ways of Serving JeUy 

glass dish with a standard. The broken particles of jelly flash 
and sparkle in a pleasing way. 

Jelly is served with a spoon and eaten with a fork. 
Principles: 

There are two kinds of gelatin on the market — shredded and 
granulated. The granulated is more convenient because it can 
be more easily and quickly measured and dissolved. 

Gelatin is insoluble in cold water, but when cold water is 
added to it, the gelatin softens and forms a hydrated, jelly- 
like mass. Hot water dissolves this mass. 

Gelatin loses its power of solidifying if boiled. 

The larger the proportion of gelatin used, the quicker the 
mixture will harden. Too much, however, will give it a peculiar 
taste and make the mass tough and gluey. It requires more 
gelatin to stiffen a mixture in summer than it does in winter. 
A given quantity of some brands of gelatin will stiffen a smaller 
amount of liquid than others. The general proportion is 
two ounces of gelatin to two quarts of water. 

Fruit juices together with sections of fruit and nut meats may 
be combined with gelatin to form very attractive desserts. 
The flavor of fruits is brought out by the addition of the juice 
of one lemon. 



Digitized by 



Google 



178 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Cleaning up: 

1. Soak the dishes in hot water. 
What has been learned: 

1. Gelatin is insoluble in cold water, but soluble in hot water. 

2. Boiling gelatin takes away its stiffening property. 

3. The larger the proportion of gelatin, the less time it 
takes to solidify. 

4. Too much gelatin gives a peculiar odor and taste. 

5. More gelatin is required in summer than in winter. 

6. Gelatin may be combined with fruit juices, fruit, and nuts 
to form attractive dishes. 

7. There are two kinds of gelatin — granulated and shredded, 
the former being more convenient to use. 

Additional Recipes 

Orange Jellt 

} pkg gelatin juice of one lemon 

i c cold water 1 pt orange juice 

1 c sugar 1 c boiling water 

Variation of Orange Jelly 

Make orange jelly. Pour a little into a mold and set it aside to harden. 
Keep the remainder from hardening by placing the bowl containing it 
within another of hot water. When the first section has stiffened, arrange the 
sections of orange upon it. Dip the other sections in the liquid gelatin and 
press them, in an upright position, against the sides of the pan. Dipping 
them into the gelatin and holding them against the side of the pan causes 
them to remain in place and they will thus serve the double purpose of 
yielding nutrient and serving as a garnish. If they were not thus made to 
remain in place, they would float around on the surface of the remaining 
gelatin when it is poured in. When all this has stiffened, add the rest 
of the gelatin and more sections. When chilled, unmold and serve. 

Coffee Jellt 

} pkg of gelatin 2 c clear black coffee (make 

i c cold water fresh coffee) 

i c sugar 1 c boiling water 



Digitized by 



Google 



} c thick creain 
i c milk 



GELATIN 
Whipped Cream for Coffee Jelly 

5 tb powdered sugar 
30 drops of vanilla 

Macedoine of Fruits and Nuts 



179 



Make jelly. Place a few spoonfuls on the bottom of the mold to set. 
Arrange a design of slices of bananas and nuts. Cover with jelly. Add 
fruit and more of the mixture. Repeat until all is added, allowing the mix- 
ture to stiffen each time. Dates, figs, and oranges may be used. Garnish 
with whipped cream. 





Lesson LV 




Snow Pudding 


Materials used: 






Pudding 


Class Rule 


Home Rule 


1 tp gelatin 


I box gelatin or 1 t 


1 tb cold water 


lated gelatin 


Itb lemon juice 


i c cold water 


3 tb boiling water 


J demon juice 


3 tb sugar 


1 c boiling water 


^ egg white 


1 c sugar 


a pinch of salt 


3 egg whites 




salt 




Custard 


I c milk 


2 c milk 


1 tb sugar 


4 tb sugar 


^ egg yolk 


3 egg yolks 


salt 


salt 


vanilla 


30 drops vanilla 


Dtensils needed: 




Bowls teaspoon wire whip mc 


tablespoon knife 


platter 




Digitized by 



tb granu- 



Google 



180 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

'Work to be done: 

Pudding: 

1. Soak the gelatin until soft in cold water. 

2. Add the boiling water and stir until dissolved. 

3. Add the sugar and stir until dissolved. 

4. Add the lemon juice and set aside on a platter in a cool 
place to stiffen till about the consistency of honey, occasionally 
stirring the mixture. 

6. Beat the egg whites until they are stiff. 

7. Add the egg whites to the mixture and beat until stiflf 
enough to hold its shape. 

8. Dip the mold in cold water. 

9. Turn the mixture into the mold and set aside to harden. 
10. Serve cold with a boiled custard. 

Custard: 

Use the liquid custard made as directed in Lesson XXXVI, 
Book One. 
Serving: 

The pudding is served in the same way as is the plain lemon 
jelly. 
Principles: 

Gelatin is not a protein, but belongs to a class of foods known 
as gelatinoids, which are similar to proteins in composition and 
very easily digested. They do not, however, build tissue, but 
yield heat and energy. Protein foods are an expensive source 
of energy; yet some protein is always used in this way in the 
body. When gelatinoids and proteins occur side by side, the 
cells of the body first use the gelatin, the cheaper nutrient, 
for heat and energy, because it is more easily broken down. 
The gelatinoids are economical, serving to conserve proteins. 
They are sometimes called "protein sparers." 

Gelatin needs the addition of some other food principle to 
make it a complete food. In snow pudding, what principle does 
the egg white supply? In soup, how were the other food prin- 
ciples supplied? 



Digitized by 



Google 



GELATIN 



181 



A gelatin dish is very easily prepared and can be served in so 
many attractive ways and in so many good combinations that 
it is a dessert dish much favored by the housewife. An added 
advantage is that it can be prepared early in the day and thus 
be out of the way. 
What has been learned: 

1. Gelatin is a gelatinoid. 

2. It should be used in combination with other food prin- 
ciples to make a perfect food. 

3. It is easily digested. 

4. It is economical and easily prepared. 

5. It can be served in various attractive forms and in various 
combinations. 





Lesson LVI 






Perfection Salad 




Materials used: 






1 tp gelatin 


J c boiling water 


cabbage cut fine 


2 tp cold water 


salt 


celery chopped 


1 tb vinegar 


1 tb sugar 
Dressing 


red peppers 


1 tb flour 


f cmilk 


legg 


1 tb butter 


2 tb vinegar 




Utensils needed: 






Measuring cup 


knife 


egg beater 


tablespoon . 


double boiler 


custard cup or 


teaspoon 


bowls 


mold 


Work to be done: 







Salad 

1. Soak the gelatin in cold water. 

2. Cut or slice the cabbage fine. Chop the celery and a little 
red pepper together. 



Digitized by 



Google 



182 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

3. Add boiling water to the gelatin. 

4. Turn the gelatin into the custard cup or mold, which has 
been dipped in cold water. 

5. Add the cabbage, celery, and red pepper and set aside to 
harden. 

Dressing 

1. Put the butter into the double boiler and melt. 

2. Add the flour. 

3. Add the beaten egg and milk, stirring constantlj^ and cook 
till the mixture is smooth and of the desired consistency. 

4. Add the vinegar. 

5. When cool, pour the dressing over the salad and serve. 
Serving: 

This makes an attractive and tasty salad. It is especially 
adapted, because of its beauty and palatability, for use at formal 
dinners or luncheons. A square or oblong section is cut and 
placed on lettuce. Little square, crisp crackers may be served 
with it; also small balls (about 1 J inches in diameter) of cottage 
cheese with which some finely chopped parsley has been mixed. 
Principles: 

Perfection salad contains all the food principles, but not in the 
right proportion to make it a perfect food. It is nutritious, 
however, and proves an attractive vegetable dish for the meat 
course at dinner, especially during the summer. 
What has been learned: 

1. A salad may be made with a gelatin foundation. 

2. Review of salad dressing. 



Lesson LVU 

Gelatin (Reading) 

No desserts are more decorative than those made on a gelatin 
basis with fruit colorings and combinations. Some think that 



Digitized by 



Google 



GELATIN 183 

they are often showy and attract the eye more than they please 
the palate. Still they may be made very palatable if plenty 
of fruit, nuts, or other solids are combined with them. The 
gaily-tinted jellies, transparent beneath the brilliant lights of 
an evening dinner, are most inviting, and are all the prettier 
and more toothsome when topped with an opaque cream of a 
contrasting hue. The end of dinner should be light and tooth- 
some rather than heavy and nutritious, for the diner is apt to 
be in a mellow mood, ready to exchange the pastime of eating 
for that of witty conversation; a dainty dessert is ideally suited 
to this mood of transition. 

Gelatins are, first of all, for daintiness, and if too pretty to 
eat, then so much the better, for they are best served when no 
more or very little more should be eaten. 

Although gelatin is closely related to glue, it is in reality 
a perfectly clean and pure substance. As a result of the ambition 
of manufacturers, together with the restraints of the pure food 
laws, the gelatins now on the market are free from injurious 
or objectionable substances, and yet they are made from bones, 
calves' feet, tendons, skin, connective tissues, and other inedible 
portions of animals. These substances are first soaked in a 
solution of lime water to destroy all undesirable matter. The 
process requires about six months, but at the end of this time 
the material comes out white and free from all foreign sub- 
stances. The bones are dissolved chemically until only the 
gristle remains. All of the material is then placed in tubs, 
covered with water, and heated by means of steam coils. The 
resulting liquid, called "factory soup," is allowed to simmer, 
but not to boil, as boiling destroys the stiffening power of the 
gelatin. 

This soup is drawn off into galvanized receptacles which are 
surrounded by cool water. This changes the liquid to a jelly. 

The gelatin is cut by means of machinery into thin slices, 
which are spread out on wire nets and run into a room where 
dry air is blown over them until all the moisture is evaporated. 



Digitized by 



Google 



184 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

The final step in this process is the changing of this substance 
into granulated, flake, or stick form, when it is ready for the 
market. 

Because the substances used in the manufacture of gelatin 
for cooking purposes are so nearly the same as those used in 
making glue and other commercial, non-edible gelatins, the 
utmost care must be taken to have the food ingredients pure. 
When pure, gelatin is transparent and sparkling. It has 
neither odor nor taste, and dissolves readily in hot water. 



Digitized by 



Google 



PUDDINGS 

Lesson LVm 

Bread and Butter Apple Pudding 

Materials used: 

Class Rule Home Rule 

i c apple sauce 1 pt apple sauce 

i tb butter 4 slices of bread J inch thick 

1 tb sugar 2 tb butter 

vanilla J c sugar 

i c cream a few drops of vanilla 

•1 slice bread i inch thick 1 c cream 

Utensils needed: 

Granite baking dish knife 

measuring cup spoon 

Work to be done: 

1. Put the oven on to heat. 

2. Put the sauce into the baking dish. 

3. Butter the brea4, cut ofif the crust, and cut the bread in 
triangular-shaped pieces. 

4. Arrange the pieces of buttered bread closely together on 
top of the sauce. 

6. Sprinkle the sugar, to which the vanilla has been added, 
over the bread. 

6. Put the dish into the oven and bake it at a moderate tem- 
perature till the bread is browned. . 

7. Serve the pudding hot with the cream. 
Serving: 

This pudding should be served either at luncheon or dinner 
from the dish in which it was baked. 

185 



Digitized by 



Google 



186 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Principles: 

The basis of this pudding is bread crumbs. In almost every 
home, some bread becomes stale. Often this is thrown away 
as being of no use, a very wasteful procedure; stale bread is 
just as nutritious as fresh bread. All such bread should be 
dried, crushed, and saved for use in puddings, in garnishing, 
and in cakes. 

This pudding represents the class of hot puddings made with 
bread combined with fruit. Why should it not be baked in a 
tin baking dish? 

The dish when garnished with cream, unwhipped, forms a 
very good dish; it is too hearty to be served with a heavy meal. 
What ingredient does it contain that makes it hearty? 
Cleaning up: 

If any of the pudding has browned on the sides of the baking 
dish, scour it off carefully. 
What has been learned: 

1. Bread may be combined with fruit to make a hot pudding 
dessert dish. 

2. Cream may be used as a liquid dressing for some puddings. 



Lesson LIX 

Chocolate Bread Pudding 

Materials used: 

Class Rule Home Rule 

i c stale bread crumbs 2 c stale bread crumbs 

1 c scalded milk 4 c scalded milk 

1| tb sugar J c sugar 

1 tb melted butter i c melted butter 

i egg 2 eggs 

i tp salt J tp salt 

I tp vanilla or 1 tp vanilla or 

^ tp spice I tp spice 

i ounce-square chocolate 2 ounce-squares chocolate 



Digitized by 



Google 



PUDDINGS 187 

Hard Sauce 

1 J tb butter J c butter 

i c powdered sugar 1 c powdered sugar 

1 tp vanilla f tp vanilla 
Utensils needed: 

2 bowls Dover egg beater 
measuring cup double boiler 
saucepan pudding dish 
spoons 

Work to be done: 

1. Scald the milk in the double boiler. 

2. Soak the bread crumbs in the milk till they are soft. 

3. Melt the chocolate by putting it in the saucepan and put- 
ting the saucepan over hot water. 

4. To the melted chocolate add one-half the sugar. 

6. Take from the bread enough milk to make the chocolate 
the right consistency to pour. 

6. Beat the egg slightly and add it, with the rest of the fhgar, 
the salt, and the flavoring, to the bread and milk. 

7. Butter the baking dish as has been directed. 

8. Put the pudding mixture into the buttered baking dish 
and bake in a moderate oven. 

Hard Sauce 

1. Cream the butter thoroughly. 

2. Very gradually add the sugar, creaming constantly. 

3. Add the flavoring and set aside to cool. 
Serving: 

This pudding is served the same as the bread and butter apple 
pudding. 
Principles: 

This pudding is an example of bread crumbs combined with 
a custard as a base. What nutritive elements are added to the 
bread crumbs by the milk? by the egg? by the chocolate? 



Digitized by 



Google 



188 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Why are puddings made with a bread crumb foundation inexpen- 
sive? Why wholesome? 

Hard sauce is very valuable for its heair and energy-giving 
food elements. It is often served with rich puddings which are 
eaten hot. It may be used as a garnish for the pudding. 
What has been learned: 

1. Bread crumbs may be combined with a custard basis to 
make a nutritious pudding. 

2. Hard sauce is often served with hot pudding. 



Lesson LX 

.- , . , - Indian Pudding 

Material used: 

Class Rule Home Rule 

1 c scalded milk 5 c scalded milk 

1 tb Indian meal J c Indian meal 

li^b molasses i c molasses 

I tp salt 1 tp salt 

I tp ginger 1 tp ginger 

i c cream 1 c cream 

Utensils needed: 

Double boiler measuring cup spoons 

pudding dish knife 

Work to be done: 

1. Scald the milk in the double boiler. 

2. Mix the milk with the meal, then put the mixture into the 
double boiler and cook for fifteen or twenty minutes. 

3. Add the molasses, salt, and ginger. 

4. Butter the baking dish. 

5. Pour the mixture into the baking dish and bake in a slow 
oven for one and one-half or two hours. 

Serving: 

This may be served with cream. It is a very hearty pudding, 
hence it should not be served after a hearty meal. 



Digitized by 



Google 



PUDDINGS 



189 



Principles: 

This pudding represents another class of puddings, those 
having a cereal basis. What food elements are found in the 
commeal? Why must the commeal be boiled for fifteen or 
twenty minutes in the milk before it is mixed with the other 
ingredients and baked? Would this pudding be suitable to 
serve after a heavy dinner? 

The cream served with the pudding furnishes fat and so makes 
the dish still more nutritious. 
What has been learned: 

Cereals may be made the basis of puddings. 





Lesson LXI 




Cottage Pudding 


Materials used: 




Class Rule 


Home Rule 


1 tb butter 


I c butter 


2| tb sugar 


f c sugar 


iegg 


Iegg 


I c milk 


1 c milk 


J c and 1 tb flour 


2J c flour 


1 tp baking powder 


4 tp baking powder 


i tp salt 


i tp salt 




Vanilla Sauce 


2 tb sugar 


i c sugar 


i c boiling water 


1 c boiling water 


i tb cornstarch or 


1 tb cornstarch or 


1 tb flour 


1| tb flour 


i tb butter 


2 tb butter 


i tb vanilla 


1 tp vanilla 


Utensils needed: 




Dover egg beater 


cake pan 2 bowls knife 


measuring cup 


saucepan sieve spoons 




Digitized by VjO 



190 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Work to be done: 

1. Put the oven on to heat. 

2. Cream the butter, add the sugar gradually, and cream. 

3. Beat the egg well and add it to the butter and sugar. 

4. Sift the dry ingredients. 

5. Add the dry ingredients and milk, alternately, to the egg 
and sugar. 

6. Butter the cake tin and pour the batter into it. 

7. Bake the pudding for thirty-five minutes. 

Sauce 

1. Sift the sugar and cornstarch together. 

2. Add boiling water gradually to the cornstarch and sugar, 
stirring constantly. 

3. Boil the sauce for five minutes; remove from the fire. 

4. Add the butter and vanilla. 
Serving: 

This pudding is cut into suitable pieces for serving, which 
are then covered with the sauce. This may be done either by 
the hostess or by the waiter before bringing the food into the 
dining room. When it is served by the hostess at the table, 
it should be cut with a broad silver knife. 
Principles : 

This lesson illustrates the use of a baked batter as the basis of 
a pudding. How many different types of puddings have been 
made? The liquid sauce has for its basis boiling water. Fruit 
juices may well be substituted for the liquid and so furnish a 
great variety in this kind of puddings. 

Cornstarch is a more delicate thickening agent for pudding 
sauces than is flour. How does it thicken the sauce? 
What has been learned: 

!• Baked batters may be made the basis of puddings. 

2. Water may serve as the base for liquid sauce for some 
puddings. Fruit juices may be substituted, giving variety. 



Digitized by 



Google 



PUDDINGS 
Supplementary Recipes 



191 



Strawberry Cottage Pxtddinq 

Materials used: 

i c butter i c milk ' 

1 c sugar li c flour 

1 egg 3 tp baking powder 

Use butter-cake method of combining. Serve with the following sauce: 

} c thick cream J c powdered sugar 

i c milk 

Strawberries crushed and sweetened or sliced peaches. 

Mix the cream and milk, beat till stiff, using the Dover egg beater; 

add the sugar, beat, add the fruits. 



Chocolate Pudding 



Materials used: 

} c butter 

1 c sugar 

2 egg yolks 
i c milk 
li c flour 



3 tp baking powder 

2 egg whites 

li squares Baker's chocolate 

i tp salt 

J tp vanilla 




Cream the butter and add one-half the sugar gradually. Beat the 
yolks of the eggs till they are 
thick and lemon-colored and 
add, gradually, the 
rest of the sugar. Com- 
bine the two mixtures and 
add the milk alternately 
with the sifted dry ingred- 
ients. Beat the egg whites 
stiff and then add the 
melted chocolate and 
vanilla. Bake in an angel- 
food cake pan, remove from the pan, cool, fill the center with whipped 
cream, sweetened and flavored. Pour cream around the cake also. 

Chocolate Sauce 

Boil 1 c of sugar, i c water, and a few grains of cream of tartar until of 
the consistency of a thin sjrrup. Melt one and one-half squares of Baker'a 
chocolate and pour the hot syrup on this gradually. Cool slightly and 
flavor with one-fourth teaspoon of vanilla. Serve with cottage pudding 
or any other suitable pudding. 



Fig. 55. — ^Angel Food Cake Pans 



Digitized by 



Google 



192 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



Lesson LXn 




Apple Dumplings 




Materials used: 






Class Rule 


Home Rule 




i c flour 


2 c flour 




1 tp baking powder 


4 tp baking powder 


^ tp salt 


i tp salt 




i tb butter 


2 tb butter 




li tb milk 


f c milk 




i apple 


4 apples 




i tb sugar 


i c sugar 




Mock Cream 




i tb flour i egg white 


1 tb flour 


1 egg white 


i tp butter i tb sugar 


J tp butter 


1 tb sugar 


i c milk salt 


1 c milk 


salt 


i egg yolk vanilla 


1 egg yolk 


vanilla 


Utensils needed: 






Sieve 


paring knife 




steamer 


saucepan 




mixing bowl 


Dover egg beater 


measuring cup 


egg whip 




spoons 


large plate 




2 knives 


cups 




Work to be done: 






1. Put the steamer on to heat. 




2. With two knives cut the butter into the dry ingredients, 


which have been sifted together. 






3. Add the milk gradually, 


cutting the mixture instead of 


stirring it. 






4. Butter the cups. 






5. Put some of the ba;tter in 


the bottom of the 


cup. 


6. Pare and slice the apple. 







Digitized by 



Google 



PUDDINGS 193 

7. Place slices of apple on the batter in the cups and sprinkle 
them with sugar. 

8. Place more batter in the cups, place the cups in the steamer 
and steam for twenty minutes. 

Sauce 

1. Put the flour and butter in the saucepan and cook them 
together till well mixed. 

2. Add the milk and let it cook as slowly as possible for 
five minutes. 

3. Beat the egg yolk. 

4. Pour the liquid over the well beaten yolk, return the whole 
mixture to the saucepan, and cook till it coats the spoon. What 
kifid of mixture is this? 

5. Beat the whites with the egg whip. 

6. Remove the liquid from the stove, cool slightly, then pour 
it over the egg white, to which the sugar has been added. 

7. Add the salt and vanilla to the sauce. 
Serving: 

This is another very rich and hearty dessert; it should, 
therefore, not be used after a heavy meal. 
Principles: 

Apple dumplings are a steamed batter pudding with which 
fruit is combined. 

Mock cream is a liquid sauce having milk for its liquid base. 
Sauces made with milk and egg in this way are really boiled 
custards and the same precautions must be observed in making 
them that is used in making custards. Is such a sauce as this 
very nutritious? Why? 
What has been learned: 

1. Steamed batters may be made the base of puddings. 

2. Cooked liquid sauces, with a milk base, may be served with 
some puddings. 



Digitized by 



Google 



194 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Supplementary Recipes 

Entire Wheat Pxtddinq 

Materials used: ^ 

i c entire wheat flour 1 egg beaten 

i tp soda 2 tb butter, melted 

i c molasses i tp salt 

i c milk or water 1 c raisins seeded and chopx)ed 

Mix and sift the dry ingredients. Add the molasses and milk or water, 

and mix thoroughly. Add the beaten egg and melted butter, then the 

raisins. Fill a buttered mold two-thirds full. Cover and steam 2i hours. 

Chopped figs or dates may be substituted for raisins. 

Suet Pudding 
Materials used: 

2 c flour 3 tb finely chopped suet 

4 tp baking powder cold water to make drop batter 

i tp salt 

Mix and sift the dry ingredients. Have the suet very cold and remove 
the membrane. Cut the suet into slices as thin as possible, then chop it 
very fine and stir it into the dry ingredients. Add the water gradually; 
mix until smooth and fill a well-greased mold two-thirds full. Cover 
and steam from two to three hours. If cooked in small molds, one hour 
will be sufficient. Serve with hot sauce. 

For Fruit Suet 

Add to the suet pudding ingredients, i tp cinnamon; i tp grated nutmeg; 
i tp ground cloves; i c sugar or molasses; i c seeded raisins cut in quar- 
ters; i c currants; 2 square inches of citron ciit in strips. 



Digitized by 



Google 



BREAD 
Lesson LXm 

Water Bread (Quick Process) 

Suggestion to Teacher: It is best to make the first lesson in bread- 
making a demonstration, in order to give the students an idea of the manip- 
ulation of the ingredients. 

The bread lesson necessarily takes at least 2} hours. During the time 
bread-making is taught, allowance must be made for the extra time 
required. It is also possible sometimes to have some of the students 
come earlier and start the operation. If there is not enough time to bake 
the loaf, the pupil may be allowed to take it home in a floured bag to finish 
the operation. 

Materials used: 
Class Rule 

1 c water 

1 tp salt 

J compressed yeast cake 

mixed with J c lukewarm 

water 
about 3 c flour 
Utensils needed: 
Sifter 
saucepan 
measuring cup 
spoons 
knife 
bowl 

Work to be done: 

1. Boil the water. 

2. Sift the flour. 

195 



Home Rule 
2 c boiling water 
1 J tp salt 
1 yeast cake mixed with 

I c lukewarm water 
6 c sifted flour 



broad-bladed knife with 
wooden handle or mixing 
spoon 

earthen ware bowl with per- 
forated cover (if possible) 

molding board 

bread tins 



Digitized by 



Google 



196 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 




3. Break up the yeast into small pieces, then mix with 
the lukewarm water, stirring until softened. 

4. Add the salt to the 
boiled water and cool 
till lukewarm. (Use a 
thermometer if possible ; 
the temperature should 
be about 88° F.) 

5. Add the softened 
yeast to the cooled 
water. 

6. Stir into this a cup 
of the flour, beating 
well. 

Fig. 56.~Pre8sing Ball of Hand in Dough ^^ Continue adding 

more flour, beating thoroughly, until about 2 J c have been added. 

8. Scrape the dough from the bowl to a molding board 
dredged with flour. 

9. Lightly flour the fingers and the dough. 

10. Fold the farther 
edge of the dough to- 
ward the front without 
pressing the fingers 
into it. 

11. Press the ball of 
the hand lightly into 
the dough, rolling it 
away from you. 

12. With the tips of 
the fingers bring the 
farther edge again to- 
ward the front. 

13. Again press the 




Fig. 57. — Bringing Farther Edge to the Front 



dough away from you with a rolling motion of the hand. 
14. Turn dough half-way around. Add a little flour if necessa^3^ 



Digitized by 



Google 



BREAD 



197 



15. Repeat the folding and rolling. Continue turning the 
dough, keeping it round. 

16. Continue the kneading process, adding as little flour as 
possible, until the dough 
is elastic and spongy. 
It should not adhere to 
the board or the hands 
and should pufif up when 
indented with the finger. 

17. Shape the dough 
into a ball. Grease the 
bowl with a little butter, 
and place the dough in it. 

18. Put the perfor- 
ated cover in position 
or cover with a folded 
white cloth. 

19. Place the dough in a warm (not hot) place. 




Fig. 



58. — ^Tuming the Dough Half-way 
Around 



The rising 

process may be hastened by putting the bowl in a pan contain- 
ing water at a temper- 
ature of 88° F. 

20. When the dough 
has doubled in size, turn 
it out again on the 
slightly floured board 
and knead till no large 
bubbles are seen. This 
will take only a few 
minutes. 

21. Cut into two 
pieces and shape each 
on the board into a loaf 

by folding it over and patting it until no wrinkles are seen. 

22. Grease the tin and dust lightly with flour. 

23. Place the loaves in the tins, cover with a thick cloth, set 




Fig. 69.— Dough Shaped for Tin 



Digitized by 



Google 



198 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 




Fig. 60.— Dough in Tin 



in a warm place, and let them stand until the volume is again 
doubled. They may be placed on a pan of warm water to 

hasten the rising proc- 
ess. 

24. Test the oven. 
If a piece of paper 
turns dark brown in 
six minutes, the heat 
is just right for baking 
the bread. 

25. Bake from 45 to 
60 minutes, the time 
depending upon the 
size of the loaf. Keep 
the heat of the oven 
such that in 15 min- 
utes the loaf will begin to brown. Lower the heat sUghtly the 
last 20 minutes of the baking. 

26. When the loaf is brown on all sides, remove from the oven. 

27. Remove the loaves from the pans, and place them 
uncovered in such a position that cool fresh air can circulate 
around them freely. 

Serving: 

Bread in some form is served at every meal. It should be cut 
in thin slices and these should be cut in half from crust to crust, 
thus leaving a half of the upper and under crusts on each 
piece. 
Table etiquette: 

Bread should be on the table and passed to each individual, 
who should place it on the bread and butter plate, if there be one, 
at the left of the butter cube or ball. 

To spread the butter, place the bread on the side of the dinner 
plate, use the butter spreader or other knife, and apply the 
butter. If desired, the bread may be broken, not cut, in two 
before spreading. 



Digitized by 



Google 



BREAD 199 

To lay the bread on the table or on the hand to spread is in 
very bad taste. 
Principles: 

What leavening agent was used in the making of bread? 
What substance is added to bread to make it rise? 

Yeast is a mass of tiny plants which feed upon the gluten and 
the starch of the flour, changing the starch first into sugar, 
and this in turn into carbonic acid gas and alcohol. The pro- 
duction of the gas fills the dough full of bubbles. The tough 
elastic gluten of the flour enables the dough to expand and rise 
as the gas, which is lighter than the dough, tries to escape. 
The process by which the sugar is changed into carbonic acid 
gas and alcohol is known as fermentation. Other and more 
complicated changes also take place, but these need not be 
described here. 

In order that the yeast plant shall spread through the dough, 
it is first softened in water; it is further distributed in the 
kneading process. 

To help it grow and flourish, the yeast plant must have oxy- 
gen. It gets this partly from the sugar and partly from the 
air that is incorporated in it by beating and kneading. 

In addition to this, kneading accomplishes other purposes. 
It thoroughly mixes all ingredients and makes the gluten more 
elastic, thus increasing its power to expand. 

Besides oxygen, yeast must have warmth, moisture, a nitrog- 
enous soil, and mineral matter. The liquid employed in mak- 
ing the dough supplies the moisture. The flour supplies nitrogen 
and mineral matter. Warmth is insured by using a lukewarm 
liquid and keeping the dough in a warm place until it is ready 
to bake. The most favorable temperature for the vigorous 
growth of yeast has been found to be from 75° to 90° F. 

The dough must not be allowed to rise too long or be kept at 
too high a temperature, as the yeast will then become less active, 
and bacteria, introduced with ingredients and utensils or dropped 
in from the air, will also become more active and cause other 



Digitized by 



Google 



200 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

fennentations to set in, which will result in what is known as 
souring. This stage can be detected by the odor, by stringiness, 
and by a sinking down in the center of the dough. 

During the entire rising process of the dough, it should be 
closely covered to prevent the formation of a hard crust by 
exposure to the air. 

As soon as the dough is light and porous, it is again kneaded 
in order to distribute the gas bubbles uniformly through the 
dough. 

After the second rising, during which the same precautions 
as to heat and length of time of rising are taken, it is placed in an 
oven hot enough to kill the yeast plant quickly, as well as to 
harden the walls of gluten, enabling the loaf to keep its shape. 
To what class of foods does the gluten belong? What is the 
eflFect of heat on it? Even though the heat is so great (about 
400° F.), it does not immediately penetrate to the middle of 
the loaf, hence the loaf keeps on rising for some time after it is 
put into the oven. The steam and alcohol generated within 
it will also tend to expand it more. It is very important that 
the heat be high enough at this point to kill all living organisms 
in the dough quickly or souring will take place even after the 
loaf is in the oven; for if the heat is not high enough to kill it, 
the yeast becomes torpid and inactive while other organisms 
cause undesirable fermentation to set in, giving rise to souring. 

During the baking, the alcohol and the gas are driven oflF into 
the oven and the intense heat causes the starch on the outside 
of the loaf to be changed to dextrine, a gummy substance, 
forming a crust. Dextrine is more easily digested than is 
starch. 

The heat should be reduced towards the last of the baking 
to give it a chance to penetrate into and thoroughly cook the 
middle of the loaf. What eflFect will this have on the starch? 
If the center is not perfectly baked, some yeast plants are likely 
to survive and when the bread is eaten, indigestion may be 
the result. 



Digitized by 



Google 



BREAD 201 

When baked, the bread should not be wrapped in a cloth, 
as the steam, condensing, causes the bread to be soggy. Besides 
this, the cloth absorbs the moisture and gives the bread an 
unpleasant odor and taste. 
Cleaning up: 

Scrape oflF as much of the dough adhering to the mixing bowl 
and other utensils as possible before soaking in cold water. 
What should be done with the flour on the board? Thoroughly- 
wash and dry the bread tins before setting them away. 
What has been learned: 

1. Dough is made light by the use of yeast. 

2. Fermentation in bread is the formation of carbonic acid 
gas and alcohol from sugar through the action of yeast. 

3. Yeast requires air, moisture, a nitrogenous soil, and 
mineral matter to make it flourish. 

4. Carbonic acid gas causes the dough to rise, while the 
gluten of the flour enables it to expand. 

5. Beating and kneading incorporate air. Kneading makes 
the gluten more elastic and mixes the ingredients thoroughly. 

6. Souring, due to the action of bacteria, is caused by too 
long rising or rising at too high a temperature. 

7. The dough should be covered while rising to prevent the 
formation of a hard crust by evaporation of moisture. 

8. The dough should be kneaded the second time to dis- 
tribute the gas bubbles evenly. 

9. The heat of the oven should be intense enough at first to 
kill all Uving organisms and harden the walls of gluten. 

10. The heat should be reduced towards the last to insure 
thorough cooking of the inside of the loaf. 

11. The loaf should begin to brown in spots at the end of 
the first fifteen minutes. 

12. When done, the loaf should be brown on all sides. 

13. The loaf should not be immediately wrapped in cloth^ 
as this results in sogginess and the absorption of an unpleasant 
odor and taste. 



Digitized by 



Google 



202 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Lesson LXIV 

Milk and Water Bread (Quick Process) 

Materials used: 

Class Rule Home Rule 

3 c flour 6 c flour 

} c scalded milk 1 c scalded milk 

i c boiling water 1 c boiling water 

1 tp butter 1 tb butter 

1 tp lard 1 tb lard 

1 tp salt li tp salt 

1 tp sugar 1 tb sugar 

i to 1 cake compressed yeast 1 cake compressed yeast 
mixed with J c lukewarm mixed with J c lukewarm 
water water 

Utensils needed: 

Double boiler broad-bladed knife or mixing 

bowls spoon 

sifter bowl with perforated cover 

measuring utensils bread tins 

Work to be done: 

1. Boil the water, scald the milk, and sift the flour. 

2. Put the butter, salt, lard, and sugar into the mixing bowl 
and pour the boiling liquid over them. What advantage is 
gained by pouring the hot liquid over the ingredients? 

3. Soften the yeast in the lukewarm water. Why? Why 
should the water be lukewarm? 

4. Cool the liquid mixture until lukewarm, and add the 
softened yeast. Why must the liquid be cooled? 

5. Add most of the flour gradually until a moderately stiff 
dough is formed, beating well and mixing the ingredients thor- 
oughly. 

6. Turn the dough out on the floured board and knead until 
it is light and elastic. 



Digitized by 



Google 



BREAD 203 

7. When the dough will not stick when left on the board a 
minute, place it in the greased bowl. 

8. Cover closely and set in a warm place or in a pan of warm 
water. What temperature should the water be? 

9. When the dough has doubled in size, turn it out again on 
the floured board and knead. Why? 

10. Shape into loaves. How? 

11. Place in greased and floured tins and set in a warm place 
till the volume doubles. 

12. Test the oven. How? 

13. Bake. How long? How should the heat be regulated? 
Why? 

14. Tap the loaf. If it gives a hollow sound, it is done. 
Give another test. 

15. Remove from the pan. How should it be cooled? 

16. When cooled, store it in a covered earthen jar. 
Serving: 

For serving bread see Lesson LXIII. 
Principles: 

Salt is added to give flavor. Too much retards the growth 
of the yeast plant. 

The addition of a very little sugar quickens the process of 
rising. In what way? Too much sugar should not be used, as 
this takes away the natural sweetness of the wheat grain. 

Shortening makes the bread more tender and prevents it 
from drying. Bread is, however, more wholesome without too 
much shortening. The effect of shortening on the growth of 
the yeast plant is the same as that of salt. 

Bread made with milk or half milk and half water is more 
nutritious than that made entirely with water. It is yellower, 
does not dry so quickly as water bread, and has a certain velvety 
texture lacking in the latter. Water bread has the advantage 
of being cheaper. 

The milk used in bread-making should always be scalded, 
since bacteria are very likely to be introduced into the bread 



Digitized by 



Google 



204 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

through this medium. For the same reason, the water should 
be boiled, but should not be mixed with other ingredients when 
it is too hot. 

Care should be taken not to add too much flour to the dough, 
as this gives the gas too much work to do and as a consequence 
the bread is not so light and porous. 

Characteristics op a Perfect Loaf of Bread 

1. General appearance: 

(a) Rounded over top, not flattened. 

(b) Not extending too far over sides of pan or cracked at sides. 

(c) Evenly baked on all sides. 

2. Proper baking: 
Indicated by: 

(a) Color — chestnut brown on all sides of loaf. 

(b) Thickness of crust — rV or |inch. 

3. Odor: 

(a) Pleasing. 

(b) No rancid nor sour smell. 

4. Flavor: 

(a) Sweet and nutty, suggesting the taste of wheat. 

5. Grain and texture: 

(a) Cut surface silky, evenly honey-combed, with the aeration 
holes rather small and uniform in size. 

6. Lightness: 

(a) Twice the size of the dough when placed in the pan. 

(b) Surface elastic when pressed with the finger. 

7. Crumb: 

(a) Glossy. 

(b) Moist, but not gummy when pressed between the fingers. 

(c) Not dry and crumbly. 

8. Color: 

(a) Inside of loaf creamy white, not ashy or dirty white. 
What has been learned: 

1. Salt adds flavor, but retards fermentation. 



Digitized by 



Google 



BREAD 205 

2. Shortening makes bread tender, but retards fermenta- 
tion. 

3. Sugar contributes to the food of the yeast plant. 

4. Milk makes bread more nutritious, prevents drying, and 
gives a velvety texture. 

5. Water should be boiled and milk scalded before being 
added to the dough. 

6. Too much flour makes the bread less porous and light. 

7. Characteristics of a perfect loaf of bread. 



Lesson LXV 



Bread (Slow Process) 
Materials used: 
Class Rule 
i c scalded milk 
i c boiling water 
2i tp butter 
1| tp sugar 
1 tp salt 
i cake dry yeast mixed with 

J c lukewarm water 
about 3 c flour 
Utensils needed: 

Earthenware bowl with 

perforated cover 
broad-bladed knife or mixing 
spoon 
Work to be done: 

1. Boil the water and scald the milk. 

2. Sift the flour. 

3. Soften the yeast cake in lukewarm water. 

4. Put butter, salt, and sugar in the bowl and pour the hot 
water and milk over them. 



Home Rule 
1 c scalded milk 
1 c boiUng water 
1§ tb butter 

1 tb sugar 

2 tp salt 

1 cake dry yeast mixed with 

i c lukewarm water 
about 6 c flour 

measuring utensils 
double boiler 
baking tins 
sifter 



Why? 



Digitized by 



Google 



206 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

5. Cool the mixture till lukewarm. 

6. Add the softened yeast. 

7. Add about half the flour or enough to make a drop batter, 
beating well. 

8. Set aside, closely covered, in a warm place until the batter 
is very light and full of bubbles (about an hour). 

9. Add the remaining flour and mix thoroughly. 

10. Turn out on the board and knead, proceeding in the same 
manner as for making bread by the quick process. 

11. Let it rise, closely covered, in a warm place until the 
size is doubled. 

12. Mold the dough into loaves. 

13. Set aside to rise. 

14. Bake. 

15. Cool. 

16. Always scald the jar in which the bread is stored twice a 
week, thoroughly airing and drying it before putting the fresh 
bread into it. 

Serving: 

For serving bread, see Lesson LXIII. 
Principles: 

Making a drop batter with part of the dough is termed setting 
the sponge. The slow process of bread-making is therefore 
often called the sponge-and-dough method. Fermentation sets 
in more readily and takes place more rapidly in a batter than in 
a dough. Hence 'the slow process requires less yeast or one 
which is slower in action. Therefore dry yeast can be employed. 

When bread is made in winter by the slow process, the sponge 
may be set in the evening, and the second mixing be done in the 
morning. If this be done in the summer, the sponge is likely 
to sour. Therefore it is better to make the sponge early in the 
morning, in which case the bread can be baked by noon. 

The longer the fermentation, the better the flavor of the bread 
will be, for during a longer process of fermentation certain 
by-products are formed which give a sweetness that is absent 



Digitized by 



Google 



BREAD 207 

in bread made by a quicker process. Care must be taken in this 
method, however, that souring does not take place. If circum- 
stances do not allow of attending to the dough when it has risen 
to the required size, or volume, souring can be prevented by- 
cutting down the dough two or three times, allowing some of 
the gas to escape. 

Proportion of Ingredients for Two Loaves of Bread 

2 c liquid 

f to 1 cake of yeast softened in i c lukewarm water 
(amount depending upon time of operation) 

1 tp salt 

2 tb sugar 

2 to 3 pints of flour 

3 tb shortening 
What has been learned: 

1. In the sponge-and-dough method, or the slow process, a 
drop batter is made with half the flour, which is allowed to rise 
until light before a stiff dough is made. 

2. Fermentation takes place more quickly in a drop batter 
than in a dough. 

3. The slow process requires a longer time but less yeast or 
one that is slower in its action. 

4. The sponge-and-dough method gives a better flavored loaf 
than the quick process. 



Digitized by 



Google 



208 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 
Lesson LZVI 



Home Rule 
2 c scalded milk 
2 tb butter 
1 tp salt 
1 tp sugar 
1 yeast cake and 

i c lukewann water 
about 5 c flour 

broad-bladed knife or mixing 

spoon 
double boiler 
baking tins 



Rolls and Biscuits 
Materials used: 
Class Rule 

1 c scalded milk 

1 tb butter 

i tp salt 

i tp sugar 

^ yeast cake and 
i c lukewarm water 

about 3 c flour 
Utensils needed: 

Earthenware bowl with 
perforated cover 

sifter 

measuring utensils 
Work to be done: 

1. Scald the milk. Cool till lukewarm. 

2. Add the yeast softened in J c lukewarm water. 

3. Add enough flour to make a soft dough. 

4. Beat well, cover closely, and set aside in a warm place 
until the dough is light and full of bubbles. 

5. Add the sugar, salt, and melted butter. 

6. Add enough flour to make a stiff dough. 

7. Turn out on a floured board and knead well until very 
light and elastic. 

8. Set aside, closely covered, in a warm place until the bulk 
is doubled. 

9. Turn out on the floured board, knead slightly, divide and 
shape. 

(a) For Biscuits, flatten the dough into a sheet and cut 
into rounds with a round cutter, placing them close together in 
a greased and floured pan, or break off a small piece of dough, 
then with the thumb and first two fingers fold the dough 



Digitized by 



Google 



BREAD 209 

towards the center, constantly moving it around and around, 
continuing this process until smooth and perfectly round. 
Biscuits should be placed close together so that they may rise 
and puflf upward instead of flattening out. A fancy biscuit, 
known as *' Clover Leaf'' biscuit, can be made by placing three 
of these small biscuits in each section of a gem pan. 

(b) Parker House Rolls. Roll the dough into a sheet about 
half an inch thick, cut with a biscuit cutter, make a crease in the 
middle of each with a floured handle of a wooden spoon, spread 
one half with butter that has been creamed, and press the halves 
slightly together. By making one side smaller than the other 
and letting the smaller side come underneath, the rolls will have 
a better shape when light. To let them rise very slowly insures 
a good shape. 

(c) Finger Rolls. Shape small bits of dough in the same 
manner that biscuits are made, then with the palm of the hand roll 
them on the board until of the length and thickness of a man's 
middle finger. 

(d) Cinnamon Rolls. Roll the dough into a sheet about one- 
half inch thick. Spread with butter that has been creamed. 
Sprinkle with cinnamon and sugar (proportion, 2 tb sugar to 
I tp cinnamon). Roll the dough like a jelly roll, and cut into 
three-fourths inch slices. Place the pieces, cut side up, side by 
side in a greased and floured pan. Brushing them with milk 
or with sugar and water just before baking improves their 
appearance. 

(e) Swedish Rolls. Prepare the dough as for cinnamon 
rolls, adding currants and a little grated lemon rind to the cinna- 
mon and sugar when sprinkling them. 

10. Set aside, closely covered, in a warm place and allow 
them to rise until very Ught. 

11. Bake in a hot oven from fifteen to twenty minutes. 

12. Biscuits and rolls may be glazed : 

(a) Brush them over with the yolk of egg beaten with 2 tb 
milk. Return to the oven to brown. 



Digitized by 



Google 



210 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

(b) Brush with a little softened butter when removed 
from the oven. The butter may be placed inside a piece 
of cheesecloth and the rolls rubbed with this. 

(c) Brush with white of egg and water. 

(d) Brush with 1 tb sugar mixed with 1 tb water. 
13. Cool. ; 

Serving: 

Clover Leaf Biscuits, Parker House Rolls, and Finger Rolls 
are all suitable for serving at a formal dinner. When so served, 
one is usually laid upon the bread and butter plate or upon the 
dinner plate with the meat course. With the ultra fashionables, 
butter is no longer served with them. Cinnamon rolls are 
especially nice with coffee, hence they are served at breakfast 
oi: luncheon with coffee. They are also served at afternoon 
and evening social affairs. 
Table etiquette: 

Biscuit and rolls should always be broken apart, never cut. 
Principles: 

Rolls and biscuits may be made from bread dough, especially 
if milk is used, or a separate dough may be made. When the 
latter is done, the dough may be made richer by the 
addition of more shortening and sugar or even eggs. A 
richer dough requires a \ longer kneading to render it smooth 
and elastic. 

A sponge should be made when much shortening is used to 
counteract its retarding action. After fermentation is well 
started, the shortening may be added. 

When eggs are added to a dough, they should be combined 
with the dough when the shortening and sugar are added. 

Biscuits and rolls are made small. Hence it does not take 
long for the heat to penetrate to the center, and from fifteen 
to twenty minutes is sufficient length of time to bake them, but 
biscuits require a greater heat than loaf bread. They should 
continue rising for five minutes and begin to brown in eight 
minutes. 



Digitized by 



Google 



BREAD 211 

What has been learned: 

1. The sponge-and-dough method should be used in all 
doughs in which much shortening is used. 

2. The richer the dough, the more time required to knead 
it in order to make it light and elastic. 

3. On account of their small size, biscuits require less time 
but more heat to bake them than loaf bread requires. 

4. A batch of biscuits may be made at the same time and of 
the same dough that bread is made. 

5. Many variations in biscuits and rolls may be made from 
biscuit dough. 

6. Glazing adds to the attractiveness of rolls. 



Lesson LXVn 

Entire Wheat Bread 
Materials used: 

Class Rule Home Rule 

1 c scalded milk 2 c scalded milk 

i tp salt 1 tp salt 

I c sugar or I c molasses j c sugar or ^ c molasses 

i to 1 yeast cake mixed i to 1 yeast cake mixed 

with J c lukewarm water with J c lukewarm water 

2i c entire wheat flour 4f c entire wheat flour 

Utensils needed: 

Earthenware bowl with measuring utensils 

perforated cover sifter 

broad-bladed knife or double boiler 

mixing spoon baking tins 

Work to be done: 

1. Scald the milk. Turn it into the bowl. 

2. Soften the yeast in lukewarm water. 

3. Add the salt and molasses to the hot liquid. 

4. Cool till lukewarm and add the softened yeast. 



Digitized by 



Google 



212 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

5. Add the flour. 

6. Beat vigorously. 

7. Cover well and set aside in a warm place till the bulk is 
doubled. 

8. Again beat well. 

9. Turn the dough into well-buttered bread pans or gem 
pans, filling them half full. 

10. Let the loaves rise till double in vohune. 

11. Bake in a hot oven for about forty-five minutes, or until 
the loaf when tapped will give a hollow sound. 

12. Remove the bread from the pans and cool. 
Serving: 

Because bread made of entire wheat flour contains more of the 
wheat kernel than does ordinary flour, it is thought by some to be 
more healthful. It is served in the same manner as other plain 
bread. 
Principles: 

Entire wheat flour is made from the whole wheat kernel with 
the exception of the outer covering. There is a greater amount 
of gluten present than in white flour, hence the dough must be 
made softer than the latter — so soft that it is sticky — or the 
bread will be hard and close and will not rise well. It should 
not be allowed to rise any longer than until the bulk is doubled, 
as it does not bear up well. The particles of gluten are not 
ground so fine as they are in white flour and for this reason all 
the gluten is not softened at once and therefore cannot aid in 
holding up the dough. 

The baking must be a little slower than for white bread 
to give the gas a chance to expand the loaf to its fullest 
capacity. 

Bread that is mixed entirely with a spoon will always be 
more or less coarse-grained. What function is performed by 
beating? 

If the entire wheat bread is tough, what can be added to 
remedy this? Why is the molasses added? 



Digitized by 



Google 



BREAD 213 

Proportion of yeast to liquid: 

One-quarter yeast cake to 1 pt liquid, if the mixture rises over 
night. One-half yeast cake to 1 pt liquid, if the mixture is set in 
the morning. One yeast cake to 1 pt liquid for quick process. 
Cleaning up: 

How should the mixing bowl be treated? why? the gem 
pans? 
What has been learned: 

1. Entire wheat flour is made from the whole wheat kernel 
with the exception of the outer covering. 

2. It has more gluten than white flour. 

3. Less of it must be used than of white flour on accou];it of 
the large proportion of gluten. 

4. It does not bear up well, hence care must be taken that it 
does not rise more than just enough to double in bulk. 

5. Entire wheat flour requires slower baking than white flour. 

Lesson LXVm 

Graham Bbead 
Materials used: 

Class Rule Home Rule 

^ c milk 2^ e hot liquid 

i c water ^ yeast cake mixed with 

i yeast cake mixed with i c lukewarm water 

i c lukewarm water IJ tp salt 

1 tp salt i e molecsses 

1 tp molasses or sugar 3 c white flour 

1^ c white flour 3 c Graham flour 
li c Graham flour 
Utensils needed: 

Earthenware bowl with double boiler 

perforated cover mixing spoon 

sifter baking tins 
measuring utensils 



Digitized by 



Google 



214 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Work to be done: 

1. Scald the milk. Boil the water. 

2. Soften the yeast. 

3. Add the salt and molasses to the hot liquid. 

4. Cool the liquid till it is lukewann. Add the yeast. 

5. Add half the flour and beat well. 

6. Cover the dough and set it aside in a warm place till Ught. 

7. Add the remaining flour and mix well. 

8. Turn out on the floured molding board and knead, 
handling quickly so that the dough will not stick. 

9. Cover the dough and set it aside to rise till the mass 
has doubled in bulk. 

10. Shape it into loaves. 

11. Allow the loaves to rise again. How long? 

12. Bake about forty-five minutes. 

13. Remove from the pans and cool. 
Serving: 

See lesson on serving bread. 
Principles: 

' Graham flour is made out of the entire kernel, neither sieves 
nor bolting cloth being used in its manufacture. Hence it 
contains all the outer coverings of the kernel, which are separ- 
ated from other flours by means of the bolting cloths and sold 
as bran. This bran in Graham flour furnishes bulk, which may 
have a very good effect upon the digestive organs of some people. 

What kind of dough must be made? Why? How should 
the bread be baked? 

The white flour is added in order to make the dough capable 
of being kneaded, thus insuring a finer-grained loaf. 
What has been learned: 

1. Graham flour is made from the whole wheat kernel. 

2. The addition of white flour to the dough makes it capable 
of being kneaded. 



Digitized by 



Google 



BREAD 215 

Additional Recipes 

Watbb Bbead 

2 c water 1} tp salt 

1 tb butter } yeast cake mixed with li c luke- 

t tb lard warm water 

1 tb sugar about 6 c sifted flour 

Milk Bread 

2 c scalded milk i to 1 yeast cake mixed with 
2 tb shortening } c lukewarm water 

2 tb sugar about 6 c flour 

1 tp salt 

Luncheon Rolls 

2 c scalded milk 2 tb sugar 
1 yeast cake mixed with 1 tp salt 

i c lukewarm water whites of 2 eggs or 1 whole egg 

1 c butter flour 

Entire Wheat Bread 

1 c boiling water i to 1 yeast cake mixed with 

1 c scalded milk i c lukewarm water 

2 tb butter 2 c white flour 

1 tp salt 4 c entire wheat flour 

} c molasses 

Rte Bread 

1 c scalded milk li tp salt 

1 c boiling water i yeast cake mixed with 

1 tb lard i c lukewarm water 

1 tb butter 3 c flour 

} c brown sugar rye flour 



Digitized by 



Google 



216 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Lesson LXIX 

Yeast (Reading) 

Yeast is a plant. It belongs to the budding fungi of the vege- 
table kingdom. Examined under the microscope, it is found to 
be made up of a mass of tiny round or oval plants. 

When watched carefully the yeast plant is seen to reproduce 
by budding. A bulging out is seen to appear at one end, which 
will continue growing until a new cell is formed, which will 
either break oflf, forming a new plant, or will remain adhering 
to the mother plant, though in its turn putting off the same kind 
of bulging. The result is a curious-looking chain of cells. 

In order to flourish, yeast must be kept moist and warm. 
The temperature most favorable to the growth of yeast is from 
75** to 90° F. Cold will check its growth, but it can be made to 
revive by the application of heat. Intense heat will kill it. 

Besides water and heat, yeast needs oxygen, nitrogenous, and 
starchy food as well as mineral matter. Each yeast cell is a sac 
filled with fluid. It gets its oxygen partly from the air and 
partly from the starch of the flour. Through a process known 
as fermentation, it breaks down the starch into sugar, which 
results in the formation of alcohol and carbonic acid gas. 

Yeast is either wild or cultivated. Wild yeast is found floating 
about in the air. It is especially abundant near fruit trees. 
Cultivated yeast was first obtained by cultivating wild yeast. 
This is the kind of yeast found on the market. 

Commercial yeast comes in three forms — ^liquid, dry, and 
compressed. Liquid yeast is made from potatoes, sugar, salt, 
hops, water, and some yeast previously made to start fer- 
mentation. 

Compressed yeast is most generally used and when it can be 
obtained fresh it is the most satisfactory because it has the 
greatest number of active yeast plants. It is a by-product of the 
distilleries, where whiskey is made. 



Digitized by 



Google 



BREAD 217 

Compressed yeast spoils very quickly. It should be creamy 
in color, and crumble easily. When it shows grayish streaks 
and begins to get stringy, it is spoiled. It may be kept for 
some time by putting it in a jar and covering it with cold water, 
renewed every day. 

Dry yeast is made by adding commeal or some other starchy 
material to liquid or compressed yeast. This is made into cakes, 
which are dried. Dry yeast is likely to have dead yeast plants 
in it, hence is not so satisfactory as compressed yeast. 



Digitized by 



Google 



TABLE SERVICE 

Pad: 

Lay the pad, or silence cloth, on the table. This should be 
about three inches larger than the table on all sides. It should 
be pulled tight over the table, folded square at the comers, 
and pinned underneath. 
Cloth: 

The tablecloth, which should be ironed and folded with great 
care with as few folds as practicable, should be carefully un- 
folded. It is much easier to keep from mussing it if two girls 
unfold and lay the cloth. Lay it lengthwise of the table with 
the long crease exactly in the center and the same length of 
cloth, about nine inches, hanging over each end. Carefully 
smooth out the creases by standing at either end and pressing 
the hands, palms downward, lightly over the cloth from the 
center to the outside, the full length of the table. Repeat the 
same operation standing at the middle of the sides. 
Ltmcheon sets: 

For luncheons, it is now quite customary to use individual 
plate, tumbler, and other small doihes instead of a tablecloth. 
These are not appropriate, however, unless the table is highly 
polished. 

A complete set consists of six (or more) twleve-inch plate 
doilies, six (or more) 8-inch bread and butter plate doilies; six 
(or more) 4-inch tumbler doilies, and some odd sizes for salts 
and peppers and other extra things set on the table, besides a 
large centerpiece. 

For luncheons, small hemstitched, scalloped, or fringed 
napkins are used. 

After the cloth is laid, the linen or lace centerpiece should 
be placed in the center of the table and upon it should be placed 

218 



Digitized by 



Google 



TABLE SERVICE 219 

the bouquet or other decoration. If flowers are used, they 
should be sufficiently low to allow those on opposite sides of the 
table to see each other. 

If loose flowers are to be used, they should not be scattered 
profusely, but laid carelessly here and there or one or two small 
ones on each napkin. 

At a formal dinner a service plate for each person, this plate 
of the large dinner size, is put in the middle of the space allotted 
to each, about twenty inches, and about an inch from the edge 
of the table. These plates are put on the table just before the 
dinner is served and not removed until just before the dessert 
is brought in. 
Silver: 

The number and position of each article of table silver depends 
upon the meal and what is to be served. The convenience of 
the guest is the one unchanging rule that determines the 
placing. 

(a) Knives: When a knife or knives are to be used, as many 
as will be needed before dessert should be placed at the right 
of the service plate, each with the sharp edge turned toward 
the plate, in the order in which they are to be used, beginning 
at the extreme right, that is, the one farthest from the plate 
is the one first used. 

(b) Forks: When knives are needed, as for a formal dinner 
or when uncut meat is served, the forks should be placed at the 
left of the service plate, as many as are needed before dessert, 
in the order they are to be used, beginning at the extreme left. 
All the tines should be turned up. (1) Fish; (2) entree; 
(3) roast; (4) salad. 

If there are not too many courses so that there is a great 
display of silver, the dessert fork may be placed on the table 
with the others at the beginning, next to the service plate. 

(c) Spoons: When both knives and forks are used, as many 
teaspoons as are needed may be placed in front of the service 
plate, arranged symmetrically with handles to the right, or they 



Digitized by 



Google 



220 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

may be placed at the right of the knives. The soup spoon is 
always at the right of the knives. 

K only forks are used, these should be placed at the right of 
the plates and the spoons at the right of the forks, the one to be 
first used being at the extreme right. 

K cofifee is not served until the dessert is brought in, some 
hostesses do not place any teaspoons on the table at the begin- 
ning, as there will be, in most cases, no use for them. 
Napkins: 

Napkins are folded in quarters and placed on the table 
parallel with the edge of the table and on a line with the service 
plate, the free edges being to the right and to the edge of the table. 

The napkins should be at the left of the forks, if they are 
at the left and at the left of the plate if the forks are at the right. 

If no service plate is used, the napkins should be where the 
plate is ordinarily placed. If the number of forks makes the 
table look crowded, many hostesses lay the nakpin on the service 
plate. 
Dinner roll: 

At a formal dinner, a bread stick, dinner roll, or piece of 
bread about 2J inches by li inches is placed on the napkin, 
which is folded over once to cover it. 
Glasses: 

Glasses for water should be placed at the right and a little 
above the service plate or near the tip of the knives. They 
should be filled with water just before dinner is announced. 
Bonbons and relishes: 

Bonbons and relishes, such as radishes, olives, celery, and 
salted nuts, may be placed on the table at pleasure, although 
it is becoming usual to set these on the sideboard or table and 
pass to each guest. 
Seasonings: 

It is not customary at a formal dinner to have butter or 
seasonings on the table. The condiments, sauces, and season- 
ings are served with each course as needed. 



Digitized by 



Google 



TABLE SERVICE 221 

Informal and family dinners: 

In setting the table for an informal or family dinner, the 
service plate should be omitted. All the knives and forks 
to be used may be put on the table, also salts and peppers 
near the comers of the table or one of each for every two 
persons. 

Small plates and bread and butter knives for the butter ball 
and bread or dinner roll, which should be put on before dinner is 
announced, are placed at the left and above the forks. 

Soup may be served by the hostess from a large tureen 
instead of being brought in individual plates from the kitchen, 
in which case the tureen should be placed in front of the hostess 
and the soup plates to her left. 
Placing of chairs: 

Chairs should be placed at the table so that the front edge of 
each is just below the edges of the tablecloth. The chair should 
not be moved nearer the table after one is seated. 
Seating guests: 

The guest of honor, if a lady, is placed on the right of the host; 
if a gentleman, on the right of the hostess. 
Serving guests: 

There are two ways of serving at a formal dinner, both equally 
in good form. 

The more formal way: Arrange each course in the pantry on 
individual plates. 

Take the tray in the left hand, put the plate containing the 
individual portions upon it. Take it to the right side of each 
guest. With the right hand place it upon the service plate 
until after the soup course, with which the service plate may be 
removed, then place it in front of each guest and close to the 
edge of the table. 

If anything is to be served with a course, it should be placed 
on a tray and passed to the left side of each guest, being held 
low enough to enable the guest to help himself with his right 
hand. 



Digitized by 



Google 



222 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

The more fashionable way ig to leave the service plate on 
the table until dessert. In this case the tray is not used in 
placing the course. 

The more simple way (Russian style) : Have the course cut 
in suitable pieces on a large dish or platter with the necessary 
serving spoon, knife, or fork. 

Put on a tray or, if too large, carry in the hands with a folded 
napkin between the dish and the hand. 

Serve at the left of each guest. 

Wait until all have finished before removing a course. 

Take the tray in the left hand, pass to the right of each guest 
and remove the plate with the right hand, placing it on the tray. 

Remove but one plate at a time, or all belonging to the course 
at each cover. 

It is allowable to dispense with the tray if pressed for time, 
and to take a plate in each hand, thus removing two plates at 
a time. 

The English Style of Serving: The English mode of serving 
is to set the whole of each course, often containing many dishes, 
at once upon the table, the hostess serving the soup, salad, and 
dessert, and the host serving the fish and roast. 

Compromise Style of Serving: By a compromise style, or 
plan, such dishes as the salad or dessert, which present an 
attractive appearance and can be served quickly and without 
much effort, are served by the hostess, and a fish, for instance, 
which is easily separated into individual portions, is served by 
the host on the plates set before him. The other dishes are 
served from the pantry. 
Order of serving: 

When the dinner is served from the pantry, the guests should 
be served in rotation alternately at the right and left of the 
hostess, going in opposite direction for each successive course. 
The host and hostess should be served last. 

When guests are served by passing the courses for guests to 
help themselves, a style becoming very popular, it is good form 



Digitized by 



Google 



TABLE SERVICE 223 

to pass the dish to the hostess first, m order that if there is any 
peculiarity or novelty about the dish, the guests may be saved 
possible embarrassment by seeing how they are expected to take 
the food from the dish. 
Place cards: 

When cards are used to seat guests, they should be placed 
on the napkins. Nothing but the name of the guest or the name 
and a simple decoration is required. 
Finger bowls: 

Finger bowls should be passed after any course that requires 
the fingers to touch the food. These should be set on a small 
dessert plate upon which is a dainty doily and placed in front 
of each guest from the right. 
Table etiquette: 

Spoon: A spoon is used only for food too soft to be easily 
handled with the fork. 

Always eat or sip from the side of a spoon, and with no noise 
of the lips. In taking up soup with a spoon, use a backward 
motion, that is, a motion away from you. 

Never leave a spoon standing in a cup. After using to stir the 
sugar or to sip, remove it from the cup, and place it in the 
saucer. If no saucer is used, lay the spoon on the side of the plate. 

Knife and Fork: Only forks and spoons are used to carry 
food to the mouth. The knife or fork, when not in use, should 
be laid across the plate at the right side. 

The knife and fork when used for cutting should be held 
with the handles in the hollows of the hands. 

The knife and fork should not be held upright on the table. 

When used to carry to the mouth meat or other food which 
must first be cut, the fork should be held in the left hand. 

No gesticulations should be made with the knife and fork. 

Napkin: The napkin should be placed upon the lap with one 
fold rather than spread out its full size. 

The napkin should never be tucked in the collar. 

Sticky fingers should be cleaned with the napkin. 



Digitized by 



Google 



224 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Dip the tips of the fingers in the finger bowl and dry on 
the napkin. 

When one is a guest at a single meal at a house, the napkin 
should not be folded again, but laid loosely at the left of the 
dessert dish. 
Miscellaneous directions: 

Put only small portions of food into the mouth at one time. 

Do not open the mouth to receive food until the food reaches 
the mouth. 

Hold the arms close to the sides while eating. 

Never put the elbows on the table. 

Sit close to the table and keep both feet flat on the floor. 

Sit near enough to the table to maintain an easily erect 
position while eating. " 

NevOT reach across the table for food. Ask to have it passed 
to you. 

Never try to talk with food in the mouth. 

Toothpicks should be used only in private. 

Stand at the back or side pf the chair until the hostess gives 
the signal to be Seated. 

Sit in a chair at table from the right side of the chair and 
rise from the same side. 

Speak only in low, well-modulated tones at the table. 

Never leave the table before the others without asking to be 
excused. 

Coffee, tea, and cocoa should be drunk from the cup, not 
from the spoon, except just at first when sipped to ascertain 
if the flavor or the temperature is right. 



Digitized by 



Google 



SUGGESTIONS FOR CAMP COOKERY 

Apparatus: 

One might go cainping without providing any of the modern 
means of cooking food, depending on the primitive camp 
fire, and get much enjoyment in devising ways of doing without 




The camper at work. Handle for frying pan. Wooden pot hook. 

cooking utensils. Potatoes may be baked in hot ashes, fish 
plastered with mud may be baked in the same way, and wild 
game may be roasted on a forked stick. There is little doubt, 
however, that those who get the most enjoyment from life in a 
camp are those who provide the cooking utensils necessary to 
economize effort in cooking. 

If a few days are to be spent in the camp, it is well to provide 
a good sheet-iron stove. This makes the preparation of meals 

225 



Digitized by 



Google 



226 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



possible even in stormy weather. Many prefer a good kerosene 
stove with one or two burners and a portable oven. 




Camp stove, knocked down, ready for packing 

If the camp is planned for but a few days, or if it is in the 
nature of a picnic excursion, it is unnecessary to have more than 
a very inexpensive and compact outfit consisting of a tripod 

for holding the pan and 
a can of solidified alco- 
hol, which may be burned 
underneath in a small tin 
cover. A fireless cooker 
will prove a great con- 
venience to the camper, 
especially to the one of 
the party who is acting 
as cook. Meals may be 
prepared before leaving 
the camp for a hike, put 
into the fireless cooker, 
and be ready to serve 
when the party returns 
Camp stove, set up, with oven attached all tired and hungry. 




Digitized by 



Google 



CAMP COOKERY 



227 



Paper or wooden plates, tin or 
aluminum cups, and tinned 
knives, forks, and spoons may 
be purchased at a surprisingly 
low cost and the used plates 
may be thrown away when 
the camp breaks up, or after 
each meal. Aluminxmi-ware 
for a camping outfit is un- 
doubtedly the best for many 
reasons, especially its light 
weight. A set of cylindrical 
aluminum pots that are made 
so that they will *'nest'' or fit Cooker with solidified alcohol 
one inside of another, will make the most convenient utensils 
for camp use. With such a set, coffee pots, tea pots, and other 





Aluminum equipment for two persons 



Digitized by 



Google 



228 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



cooking utensils may be discarded. If the cost of aluminum- 
ware is prohibitive, a large granite-ware kettle should be pro- 
vided, in which foodstuffs 
may be packed and which 
may also be used as a gen- 
eral cooking utensil. 

The camp supply of 
matches should be put in a 
wide-mouthed bottle with 
tightly-fitting cork, or in- 
to a sealed Mason jar, so 
that the matches will not 
get damp. 
Food to be taken: 

It is diflScult to deter- 
Safe storage for matches ^j^e just what foods should 

be taken to camp. The experience gained through years of 
camp life in the U. S. Army is probably the safest to follow. 
The army field ration for two men for a two weeks' supply is 
given below: 




Pork 


. . 7 lb. 


Bacon 


. . 4 lb. 


Flour 


15 lb. 


Beans 


. . 3 lb. 


Oatmeal 

Rice 


. . 2 lb. 
4 lb. 


Butter 


4 lb. 


Evap. Fruit 

Evap. Vegetables . . 
Sweet Chocolate . . . 
Milk Powder . . . . 

Egg Powder 

Coffee 


. . 3 lb. 
. . 2 lb. 
. . 2 lb. 
. . 1 lb. 
. . Ub. 
. . 1 lb. 


Tea 


. . Ub. 


Sugar 


. . 6 lb. 


Salt 


. . 2 lb. 


PeDoer 


1 lb. 


Baking Powder . . . 


. . ilb. 




57J lb. 



Aluminum equipment packed 



Digitized by 



Google 



CAMP COOKERY 



229 




It will be noted that this provides 2 lb. a day for each man. 
Milk powder is made by drying pure fresh milk in sterilized 

air. It is a sanitary product and may be used with safety. 

The addition of water will restore all that has been taken out of 

the natural milk. 

Egg powder, made in a similar way, is entirely healthful 

and a great convenience to the camper. 

Preparation of food : 

The general directions 

for cooking that are given 

in this book, with , sUght 

modifications made neces- 
sary by the character of 

the utensils used and the 

food products available, 

sh'uld be followed. Camp 

cookery should be just as 

good as cookery in the 

kitchen. 

Roasted birds, in feathers: 

Birds may be roasted with the best results even if cooking 

utensils are absent. Do not 
pick the feathers from the 
bird. Cut oflf the head, 
take out the entrails, and 
wash out the inside of the 
bird. Cover it thoroughly 
with wet clay and bury it in 
hot coals. After about 
forty minutes take the bird 
from the coals and peel oflf 
the baked clay and with it 
will come the feathers and 
skin. The flesh will be 
Same bird after cooking found to be delicious. 



Wild duck, partially covered with clay 




Digitized by 



Google 



230 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



Roasted birds, in oven: 

Cut oflf the head, pick oflf all the feathers, draw out the 
entrails, and wash or wipe the bird thoroughly. Tie down the 
legs, place the bird in the pan, and sprinkle flour over it. Cover 
the bottom of the pan with water. Roast the meat in a hot 
oven, allowing thirty minutes for large birds, such as ducks, 
geese, and hens; and twenty minutes for small birds, such as 
reed birds or snipe. 




ir t^}^^ "^^51^;' 



An easy method of suspending a kettle 
Stewed birds: 

After picking the feathers and taking out the entrails, cut 
the bird into pieces of a size convenient to go into the pot or 
kettle, and sprinkle the meat with salt, pepper, and flour. 
Cover the pieces with cold water, cover them tightly, and allow 
them to boil gently for two hours. Thicken the liquor with 
three or four tablespoons of flour. Allow the dish to simmer for 
two hours longer, and then serve it. 
Broiled birds: 

Dress the bird, cut it into convenient pieces, and broil the 
meat over the coals of the camp-fire. A stick sharpened on 
both ends, one to hold the portion of the bird, or a whole one if 
it be small, and the other to stick into the ground so that the 
birds may be a proper distance from the fire, is a device used by 
many campers. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CAMP COOKERY 



231 



Fricassee of chicken: 

Cut the chicken into convenient pieces and boil it until it is 
tender. Make a gravy with the water in which the chicken is 




A primitive but effective device 




A more modem broiler 



Digitized by 



Google 



232 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



boiled, adding half a cup of flour and two tablespoons of butter 
for each quart of water. Add salt and pepper to suit the taste. 

Put the chicken into the gravy 
and boil it five minutes. It is 
then ready to serve. 
Preparation of fish: 

Fish may be boiled, steamed, 
broiled, or fried. The most 
popular method of cooking fish 
at camp, is "frying in the pan." 
Clean the fish thoroughly, re- 
move all the scales, cut off the 
head, the fins, and the tail. Cut 
the fish into convenient -sized 
pieces, roll them in the flour, 
cracker crumbs, or corn meal, 
and fry them in the pan with a 
little butter or lard, till they are 
crisp. Salt to suit the taste. 
The accompanying illustra- 
tion shows a good method of 
planking fish over the campfire. 
After scaling, split the fish down the back and remove the in- 
sides and head. Take a hardwood board or plank, large enough 
for the fish that is to be cooked, and sharpen one end. Char 
one side of the board over the coals. When the board is hot, 
tack the fish on it with the skin-side next to the hot surface. 
Higher up on the board, tack pieces of salt pork or bacon, so 
that their drippings will flow over it. Drive the sharp end of 
the plank into the ground close enough to the embers to cook 
the fish (but not too close, since an even heat is desired), with 
the fish toward the fire. Catch the drippings in a cup and 
"baste" the fish during the cooking process. 

Very small fish, such as brook trout, need not be scaled 
or have the head and fins removed. After taking out the 




Planking fish over camp-fire 



Digitized by 



Google 



CAMP COOKERY 233 

entrails sprinkle the fish with flour or corn meal and fry them 
in the pan until crisp. The bones are so small and tender that 
thorough cooking makes it unnecessary to remove them. 
Such small fish are eaten "bones and all.'^ The Indians hold 
the fish before the camp fire for a moment to loosen the scales. 
This makes the scaling of the large fish very easy. 
Fried oysters: 

Drain the oysters. Then roll them in flour, cracker crumbs, 
or corn meal, and fry them in boiling lard until they turn a 
light brown. Serve them while they are hot. 
Oyster stew: 

Drain the liquor from the oysters and boil it. Take off the 
scum and add boiling milk, one quart of milk to one pint of 
oysters. Add a tablespoon of butter, add salt and pepper 
to suit the taste. Put in the oysters, let them boil for a moment, 
and serve them with crackers. 
Fried salt pork: 

Cut the pork into convenient slices, remove the rind, and pour 
boiling water over the pieces. Let the sHces remain in the water 
for ten minutes, remove them, and fry them thoroughly in the 
frying pan. Brown them on both sides; add salt and pepper 
to suit the taste. 
Fried ham: 

Cut the ham into thin slices and remove the rind. Fry in 
the frying pan for eight minutes. Drippings or extra pieces of 
fat may be put in the pan with the ham. When the ham is 
taken out of the pan, eggs may be fried in the grease remaining. 
Ham and eggs make a very fine dish for the camp. Bacon may 
be substituted for ham if desired. 
Stewed dinner: 

The frying pan may be called the curse of the camper's 
kitchen. It is true that one should not depend on too many 
fried dishes, especially when lard or drippings are used. An 
authority on camp life suggests as a variation a steamed dinner. 
Dig a shallow pit and roll into it stones heated as hot as possible 



Digitized by 



Google 



234 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



in the camp-fire. Place over these a thick layer of moss, green 
grasses, or damp leaves. Place on this the meats and vegetables 
and cover them closely with moss, green grass, or damp leaves. 
Fill the pit with loose earth. Let it remain an hour or more, 
according to the kind of food to be cooked. The result will be 
a well-cooked dinner, with all of the natural flavors retained. 

Broiled ham or bacon: 

Ham or bacon may be broiled 
by placing a slice in a forked 
stick and holding the slice near 
the coals. Such slices, fresh 
broiled, placed between pieces 
of bread, are delicious. 
Baked beans: 

Pick over one quart of dry 
beans. Soak them over night 
in plenty of cold water. In the 
morning wash them in another 
water and place them on the 
fire in six quarts of water with 
one pound of salt pork. In 
from thirty minutes to fifty 
minutes they will be cooked and 
the water should be drained off. 
They should now be placed in 
an iron pot or a stone jar having 
a tight fitting cover. Gash or score the pork, put in half the 
beans, then the pork and then the remainder of the beans. Add 
one tablespoon of salt, one tablespoon of molasses or sugar, and 
boiling water sufficient to cover them. Put on the cover 
tightly and put the pot in the oven or close to the fire with the 
reflector back of it. Let the beans bake for ten to fifteen hours. 
Unless the fire is to be kept burning for other purposes, this 
long baking will make this method of preparing beans incon- 
venient. Old campers declare that no method of cooking beans 




An old-fashioned "bean hole" 



Digitized by 



Google 



CAMP COOKERY 



235 



will produce better results than the method shown in the accom- 
panying picture. The beans are prepared for baking and the 
container, tightly sealed, is lowered into a hole dug in the 
ground. Hot coals or heated stones are placed below, around 
and above the container and the hole is then filled up, making 
an improvised fireless cooker. The beans are left in this 
**bean hole'' for several hours. 
Cooking beefsteak: 

Cut the steak thick — 1^ to 2 inches. Cut this into three- 
inch squares. Heat the frying pan, or the top of the camp 
stove, almost to redness, and throw the squares of meat on 
the hot surface. Turn them quickly to sear the other side. 
Keep turning them until the meat is done. Have no water or 
grease other than that furnished by the steak in the pan. Salt 
and pepper should be added just before the steak is removed 
from the pan. Even tough steak will be made tender and juicy 
by this method of cooking. 
Baking powder biscuit: 

Before starting on a camping expedition, thoroughly mix 
flour, baking powder, and salt in the correct proportions to 
make baking powder biscuit. 
This mixture should be 
placed in a sack. When 
the biscuit are to be made, 
roll back the edges of the 
sack, hollow out a place 
in the center of the prepared 
flour, and carefully pour in 
one-half cup of warm water 
or milk. Mix the prepared 
flour with the liquid, mak- 
ing a stiff ball of dough. 
Take it out, flatten it 
slightly, and put it in the 
frying pan. Hold the pan Baking biscuit in "reflector" 







Digitized by 



Google 



236 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

over the fire until the dough hardens on the pan, then put the 
pan on edge with the biscuit toward the fire and bake the top 
side. This will make a biscuit large enough for one person. 
Note that when this method is used very few utensils are 
needed. 

An oven for use with the camp-fire is easily made from a piece 
of sheet iron bent so that it acts as a reflector to catch the heat 
and throw it down on the food to be baked. The reflector 
oven is not placed on the fire but at the side and close to it. 

If the reflector oven be used the biscuit may be placed in 
any pan and put in the oven. 

The illustration shows how biscuit are baked in a so-called 
"reflector.'* Bread and pies can also be baked in this oven. 
Com dodgers: 

Mix dry three cups of corn meal, one teaspoon of salt, and one 
tablespoon of sugar. Wet the mixture by pouring on it about 
one quart of boiling water. Make the dough into small flat 
cakes about one inch thick and fry them in boiling fat until 
brown. This will take fifteen minutes. Serve the corn dodgers 
while they are hot. 



Digitized by 



Google 



MEASURING 



237 



Measuring 

There may be— in fact, evidence proves that there are — good cooks 
who seemingly never measure anything, but by "about so much of this," 
and ''a pinch of that," brii^ about results so delicious that the would-be 
follower at once determines to throw rules to the winds and try the same 
way. Good cooks always measure — one by the cup and spoon, because she 
must; another by the judgment and experience long years of doing the 
same thing over and over again have given her; and the chances are that, 
unless you have the rare gift of cooking straight from the gods, you would 
better cling to the exact measures and weights if you wish the best result 
every time, instead of once in a while. 



64 drops 

4 saltspoons liquid . . . 
3 teaspoons 

3 teaspoons dry material 

4 tablespoons of liquid . 



{: 



16 tablespoons of liquid 

16 tablespoons dry material . . . . 

8 heaping tablespoons dry material . 

4cupsUquid , . . 

4 cups flour 

4 cups flour 

2 cups soUd butter 

J cup butter 

2 cups granulated sugar 

2i cups powdered sugar 

1 pint milk or water 

9 large eggs or 10 medium . . . . 
1 round tablespoon butter . . . . 
1 heaping tablespoon butter . . . . 
1 heaping tablespoon butter . . . . 

1 heaping tablespoon sugar . . . , 

2 round tablespoons coffee . . . . 
1 tablespoon Uquid 

butter size of egg 

butter size of egg 



teaspoon 

teaspoon 

tablespoon 

tablespoon 

wineglass 

gill 

cup 

cup 

cup 

cup 

quart 

quart 

pound 

pound 

pound 

pound 

pound 

pound 

poimd 

ounce 

ounces 

cup 

ounce 

ounce 

ounce 
2oimces 
I cup 



Digitized by 



Google 



238 MEASURING 

Because of the growing custom of selling fruits and vegetables by weight, 
it becomes necessary for the consumer to know the weight of a bushel of 
the various conmiodities. Not all states have laws regulating these 
weights, but the table below may be considered as fairly representative. 

EXTBACT FBOM MINNESOTA LaWS REGARDING THE WEIGHING 

OF Commodities 
In contracts for the sale of any of the following articles, the term 
''bushel" shall mean the number of pounds avoirdupois herein stated: 

1 Bu. 1 Qt. 

Apples (green) 50 lb. 

Beans (navy) 60 lb. lib. 14 oz. 

Beans Oima) 56 lb. 1 lb. 12 oz. 

Beets 501b. 

Carrots 451b. 

Chestnuts : ... 501b. 

Cranberries 36 lb. 1 lb. 2 o». 

Cucumbers 48 lb. 

ffickory Nuts 50 lb. 

Onions 52 lb. 1 lb. 10 oz. 

Parsnips 421b. 

Peaches (not dried) 48 lb. 

Peanuts 22 lb. 

Pears 451b. 

Peas (smooth) 60 lb. lib. 14 oz. 

Potatoes (Irish) 601b. 

Potatoes (sweet) 55 lb. 

Rutabagas 52 lb. 

Tomatoes 501b. 

Turnips 55 lb. 

Wahiuts , 50 lb. 1 lb. 9 oz. 



Digitized by 



Google 



GLOSSARY 

Albumen, the white of an egg. 

albumin, the protein of milk, muscle, and of many vegetable tissues. 

alkaline, having the power of forming salts with acids. 

aluminum, a bluish silver-white metal, noted for its Ughtness. 

annatto, a vegetable dye used in coloring oleomargarine. 

artichokes, aster-like plants, the flower-bracts and receptacles of which 

' are used for food, 
asbestos mat, a mat made of fireproof material, 
assimilation, the process by which the nutritive material which is taken as 

food is changed to the substance of the body, 
bacteria, a group of vegetable microorganisms, widely distributed. 
baking, cooking by dry heat. 
baste, to moisten with melted fat or other liquid to prevent burning 

and to add flavor, 
batter, a mixture of a starchy, dry ingredient and a liquid, 
beaten "dry," said of the whites of eggs when they are beaten so much 

that Uttle flakes are thrown off. 
beaten ''stiff," said of the whites of eggs when beaten until they do not 

run when inverted. 
binding, a mixture of flour and butter added to a soup to thicken it. 
bisque, a thick, rich soup made of shellfish, birds, or rabbits. 
bladder worm, a parasite of pork, causing tapeworm in human beings. 
blanch, to make nuts white by removing the skin by scalding. 
blanc mange, a dessert made of gelatin or cornstarch and milk. 
blow end, the blossom end of fruit. 
boiled dressing, a cooked salad dressing made of sugar, vinegar, butter, 

eggs, salt, pepper, and mustard. 
boiling, cooking in hot water. 

bolted flour, flour sifted through bolting, a silk cloth. 
borax, a crystalline salt used as a cleansing agent. 
bouillon (boo'y^u'), a clear soup made by slow boiling of lean beef or 

other meat. 
braising, stewing or broiling in a covered kettle or pan. 
brick tea, a kind of tea made by grinding, steaming and pressing tea 

leaves in a mold. 
Briey a kind of soft cream cheese made in Brie, France. 

239 



Digitized by 



Google 



240 GLOSSARY 

brisket, the breast or lower part of the chest of animals in front of and 

between the fore legs, 
broiling, cooking by direct exposure to heat on hot coals or over a gas flame, 
brussels sprouts, a variety of cabbage, flavored like cauliflower, 
butter-cake method, a method of mixing ingredients in which the butter 

and sugar are first creamed; then eggs are added; then flour and milk 

alternately, 
butter hands, wooden paddles for shaping butter for table use. 
by-products, a secondary product produced in the course of a manufacture 

in addition to the principal product. 
caf^noir (ca'ffi'nw6r), black coffee, that is, coffee without cream. 
caffeine, (cftf'e !n), a stimulating compoimd found in coffee and tea. 
Camembert (Ca man'b^')» a soft, unpressed cream cheese, 
capers, greenish flower buds of the caper plant, used pickled as an ingred- 
ient of sauces. 
caramel, burnt sugar. 

carbohydrates, compoimds composed of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen, 
cassava (ca sa'va), a plant, manioc, having fleshy rootstocks, which yield 

a nutritious starch. 
casserole, baked dish of meat or vegetable combined with bread or 

cracker crumbs. 
caustic, burning, corroding. 

caviare (c&v'i are'), the salted roe of the sturgeon or other large fish. 
Cayenne (Ca'gn'), red pepper. 
cecils, balls of minced meat and bread crumbs. 
cellulose, the paper-like substance composing the walls of animal and 

vegetable cells, 
cereals, grains. 

chocolate, a substance made from the bean of the cacao tree. 
chop, a small slice of meat cut from the leg or ribs. 
chowder, a dish made of fresh fish or clams, biscuit and onions stewed 

together, 
citric acid, the acid of lemons, currants, gooseberries, and the like. 
citrous fruits, fruits like the orange, lemon, and grape fruit. 
coagulate, to curdle or clot. 
cocoa, a substance made from the bean of the cacao tree, and differing 

from chocolate in that the oil has been removed, 
colander, a vesselwith a perforated bottom, 
collagen, a material, soluble in water, found in bone, connective tissue, 

tendons, and cartilage. 
composite, a food composed of ingredients having different food values, 
compote dish (c5m'pot) , a fancy dish for holding a mold of jelly or other relish. 



Digitized by 



Google 



GLOSSARY 241 

compressed yeast, a by-product of distilleries where whiskey is made. 

condiment, something used to season food. 

consomme (cdn's5'meO) strong broth of meat and vegetables slightly 

browned. 
corer, a utensil used for removing the core from apples. 
corned, preserved and seasoned with salt. 
cottolene, a product of cottonseed used as lard. 
cream, to rub or beat butter until it is creamy. 
cream soup, the strained pulp of a vegetable combined with milk and 

a binding. 
croquettes, fried balls made of minced meat, fowl, rice, or other ingredients. 
crouton (cro'tfin'), a small cube of toasted bread. 
curdle, to thicken. 

curing, preserving by drying, salting, or smoking. 
ciuried, seasoned with a condiment made of turmeric powder, curry 

leaves, and spices, 
cut in shortening, to mix lard or butter with flour by means of a knife, 
cutlet, a sUce from the leg of veal, 
denatured, having the natiu-e changed; said of alcohol into which oil 

has been put to render it unfit for drinking. 
desiccated, preserved by drying. 
dessert (de §ert')) a service of fruits or sweetmeats at the close of a dinner 

or luncheon, 
dextrin, a soluble gummy substance formed from starch by the action of 

heat, acids, or ferments. 
diced, cut into small cubes, 
dietary, pertaining to the diet. 

doilyj a small ornamental piece of linen or lace, usually round, 
double boiler, a cooking utensil consisting of two covered basins, one inside 

the other. 
Dover egg beater, an egg beater operated by means of a wheel and a crank. 
drawn butteri butter melted and mixed with flour and hot water. 
dredge, to sprinkle with flour, 
drippings, the fat that is left from cooking meat. 
drop batter, a batter thick enough to break from the spoon when held 

suspended. 
dry yeast, yeast made from liquid or compressed yeast by adding corn- 
meal or some other starchy material. 
Edam, a Dutch pressed cheese made in balls. 
edible, fit to be eaten, 
entire wheat flour, flour made from the whole wheat kernel except the 

outer covering. 



Digitized by 



Google 



242 GLOSSARY 

entree (an'tre), a side dish^ 

extension sieve, a sieve with sliding wires on either side to serve as a 

support, 
extractives, the flavoring substances in meats. 
fermentation, a chemical change similar to that made by yeast, 
fibrous, consisting of fibers, or Uke fibers, 
filtered, strained through cloth, paper, sand, or charcoal, 
fission, £^ method of reproduction in which the organism lengthens out 

and divides in the middle. 
fold in, to combine the beaten whites of eggs with a batter without beating, 
fondant, a preparation of sugar used as a basis in making candy. 
fondant dipper, a wooden utensil shaped like a spoon, with slits in the bowl. 
French dressing, an uncooked salad dressing made of olive oil, vinegar, 

and seasonings. 
fricasseeing, stewing fowls or other meat cooked in a gravy. 
fudge, a kind of soft candy made of milk, sugar, and chocolate or maple 

sugar. 
garbage, waste animal or vegetable matter. 
gariic, a plant resembling the onion. 

garnishing, something put on or around a dish of food for ornament, 
gas plate, a simple plate attachment connected with the gas pipe and used 

for cooking, 
glazed, covered with a coating of white of egg or melted sugar. 
Graham flour, unbolted wheat flour. 

Hamburg steak, beef chopped fine and broiled or fried in cakes, 
hard sauce, sugar and creamed butter, 
hominy, maize hulled and broken for food, 
invert sugar, a mixture of grape sugar and fruit sugar. 
kosher meat, the fiesh of animals killed according to Jewish law. 
lactic acid, the acid of milk. 
lactose, a hard, crystalline sugar found in milk. 
lardoon, a strip of fat pork or bacon inserted into meat. 
leaf fat, layers of fat about the kidneys of the hog. 
leavening agent, something added to a batter to make it light. 
legume, a plant like the pea and bean, 
legumin, the protein of peas, beans, etc. 
lentil, a plant with fiattened, lens-shaped seeds, which are cooked like peas 

or beans. 
lime water, a water solution of slaked lime used for medicine. 
liquid custard, a custard stirred constantly while cooking. 
lukewarm, neither hot nor cold, 
macaroni, a paste made of wheat flour and dried in long, slender tubes. 



Digitized by 



Google 



GLOSSARY 243 

macaroon, a small cake made of white of egg, sugar, and pounded almonds 

or other nuts. 
macedoine (ma'sa'dwan'), a mixed dish, as of vegetables with white 

sauce. 
maitre dliotel (sauce), a kind of sauce made of melted butter, lemon 

juice or vinegar, and seasonings. 
malic acid, the acid of apples, 
marinate, to soak for a time in oil or vinegar. 
marjoram (mar'jo ram), a mint used for flavoring. 
masticate, to chew, 
mayonnaise (mS,'o na§'), a thick salad dressing made of raw yolks of eggs 

beaten with oil and vinegar, and seasonings. 
measly pork, pork infected by the bladder worm, known by its lumpy 

or speckled appearance, 
meringe (me r&ng'), a composition of powdered sugar and beaten whites 

of eggs, used on puddings, pies, and fruits. 
mill, to beat a mixture with the egg beater. 
Neufchatel (Nii'gha t6l'), a kind of soft white cheese made from sweet 

milk. 
neutral (lard), a high grade of lard made in the packing plants of leaf 

fat only. 
noodle, a mixtiuB of flour and egg used in making soup. 
oleomargarine (o'le o mar'ga ren), a substitute for butter made of beef 

suet, lard, and cottonseed oil. 
omelet, a dish consisting of eggs beaten up with milk or water and cooked 

in a frying pan. 
omelet pan, a light-weight oval or round frying pan. 
pan broiling, broiling meat in a pan over the fire. 
pancreas, one of the digestive organs lying near the stomach. 
paprika (pa'pri ka), the dried ripened fruit of the pepper plant. 
parafSn, a waxy substance, used in making candles, preserving food, and 

so forth. 
parasite, a plant or animal living upon another plant or animal. 
parboil, to boil until partly cooked. 
pasteurize, to check or prevent fermentation in fluids. 
pastry, food having a crust made of paste. 
pastiy bags, bags fitted with tubes for putting on meringue or whipped 

cream. 
peanut butter, a paste made of ground peanuts and water. 
pectin, the substance in fruits which causes the juice to jell, 
pilaf (pi laf')) rice boiled with meat, fowl, or fish. 
pimento, allspice. 



Digitized by 



Google 



244 GLOSSARY 

pinoclie (pi no'che), a kind of soft candy made of brown sugar, usually 

with nuts. 
pinon (p6 nyOnO> an edible seed of a certain pine. 

. pistachio (pis t&'^hi o), a tree of Southern Europe having a greenish seed. 
poachy to cook (an egg) by breaking (it) into boiling water. 
pork, the flesh of the hog. 

portethouse, steak or roast cut from beef just forward of the sirloin. 
pour hatter, a batter thin enough to pour. 
process butter, butter that has been made over, or renovated. 
proteid, a food containing carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, and sulphur, 

and often phosphorus and other elements. 
piir6e (pti'rfiO) a thick cream soup. 
ramekin, an earthen dish for baking various foods prepared with bread 

crumbs, 
rancid, having a rank taste. 
r^chauff 6 (rft' sho' f a') , a warmed-over dish. 
refining, freeing from impurities. 

relish, something taken with food to render it more palatable. 
rennet, the lining of the stomach of a calf, used for curdling milk. 
rennin, the active constituent of rennet, 
renovated butter, poor or rancid butter made fresher and sweeter by 

melting and washing in cold water and a solution of caustic soda. 
ricer, a utensil for preparing mashed potatoes for the table, 
ripening of cream, the souring of cream by the right kind of bacteria 

through the use of a starter. 
Roquefort (Rdk'fdr'), a highly flavored, blue-molded cheese, made from 

the milk of ewes and cured in caves. 
rolled cookies, cookies made by rolling the dough thin and then cutting. 
round steak, beef cut from the round of the hind quarter, 
saccharine, a coal-tar product remarkable for its sweetness. 
salsify (s&l'sl f j^), a plant the root of which tastes like oysters; vegetable 

oyster. 
samovar, a metal urn used for making tea. 
saute (sA tfi')i to cook in a Uttle fat. 
scalloped, baked with cracker or bread crumbs. 
score, to make shallow cuts across a surface. 
scrambled (eggs), eggs cooked with milk. 
searing, heating the surface of meat so intensely hot that a coat of hardened 

albumin is formed. 
service plate, the plate upon which the plates of the course of a dinner 

(except the last course) are placed, 
shortening agents, materials added to a batter to make it tender. 



Digitized by 



Google 



GLOSSARY 245 

shredded, cut into fine strips. 

sieve, a utensil with a fine mesh wire^ used for sifting. 

silence cloth, a thick pad or cloth laid under a table cloth. 

simmer, to boil gently. 

sirup (sir 'up), a thick, sticky liquid. 

skewer, a wooden or metal pin for keeping meat in form while roasting.. 

skimmer^ a utensil to clear scum from a liquid. 

soggy, heavy and wet. 

soluble, that may be dissolved in liquid. 

souffle, a spongy dish made of eggs, milk, and flour, beaten till very light, 

and mixed with cheese, fruit, or other flavoring. 
spaghetti (spa gfit'l), a kind of macaroni made into smaller tubes. 
spatula, a flexible, thin-bladed knife. 

spinach (spln'ftj), an herb cultivated for its leaves, which are eaten boiled, 
sponge-cake method, a method of making batter for cakes without beating. 
spores, the round body inside of the parent organism by the formation 

of which bacteria multiply. 
stale, not freshly made. 

starter, some soured skimmed milk containing only lactic acid bacteria, 
stew, to cook slowly a long time in a small quantity of water, 
stock, a liquid containing the soluble parts of meat extracted by cooking, 
sweetbreads, the thymus glands and pancreas of calves. 
tannin, a strong acid found in tea. 
tapioca, a coarse-grained preparation of cassava starch obtained by heating 

it while moist. 
tenderlom, a strip of flesh, either beef or pork, on either side of the backbone 

under the short ribs, 
theine (the'ln), the same as caffeine. 
theobromine, a substance, foimd in cocoa and chocolate, similar to the 

caffeine of coffee. 
thymus glands, the glands in young lambs or calves eaten for foods, called 

sweetbreads, 
trichina, a parasite of pork causing a fatal disease in human beings when 

infected pork is eaten. 
tripe, a part of the stomach of the cud-chewing animals, especially of the 

ox kind, 
tuber, a fleshy undergroimd stem, 
tureen, a large, deep dish to hold soup for the table, 
utensil, an instrument used in the kitchen. 
veal, the flesh of calves. 

vegetable brush, a brush used for cleaning vegetables, 
vegetarian, one who does not eat animal food. 



Digitized by 



Google 



246 GLOSSARY 

vennicello, (vSr'me sfil'l), a paste of a small grained wheat forced through 
small pipes till it takes a slender, worm-Uke form. 

whey, the water part of coagulated milk. 

wire whisk, a utensil for beating eggs. 

Worcestershire (sauce) (Wd6s'ter sh$r), a highly seasoned relish used 
with meats. 

yeast, a substance consisting of the cells of certain fungi, used as a leaven- 
ing agent. 



Digitized by 



Google 



INDEX 



PAGE 

Albumen 45 

Albumin 45 

Annatto 70 

Apple dumplings 192 

Apples 13 

Composition of 13 

Sauce 28 

Serving 13 

Stewed 25 

Bacon / . . 152 

Bacteria 38,51 

Lactic 63 

Baked beans 33 

Bananas 18 

Baked 24 

Beef 141 

Cuts 128 

Loaf 156 

Stew 155 

Biscuits 208 

Clover leaf 209 

Bladder worm 150 

Bohemian cream 23 

Boiled leg of mutton 132 

Boiling 134 

Bonbons 110 

To dip Ill 

Boston brown bread .... 35 

Cookies 103 

Bouillon 172 

Braising 144 

Bread 195 

Entire wheat 211,215 

Graham 213 

Milk and water (quick process) 202 

(Slow process) 205 

247 



PAQB 

Bread — Continued 

Perfect loaf of 204 

Proportion of ingredients of 217 

Rye 215 

Slow process 205 

Water (quick process) . 195,215 
Bread and butter apple pudding 185 

Broiled beefsteak 113 

Ham 148 

Broiling 116 

Brown sauce 119, 141 

Brown soup stock 165 

Butter, composition of ... . 68 

Hands 68 

Making 63 

Serving 67 

Butterine 73 

By-products of meat 161 

Cacao 45 

Cakes 87 

Chocolate fruit 91 

Dark fruit 94 

Golden spice 94 

my 91 

Spanish 89 

Sunshine 98 

Wahiut 87 

Cambridge gingerbread ... 95 

Candy making 109 

Bonbons 110 

Cocoanut centers Ill 

Fondant, white 109 

Nut centers Ill 

Caramel frosting 90 

Carving roasts 125 

Steak 115 



Digitized by 



Google 



248 



INDEX 



PAGE 

Casein 46 

Casserole of rice and meat . .157 

Cecils with tomato sauce . . 157 

Chafing dish 74 

Cneese, cottage 57 

Fondue 76 

Souffle 77 

Chocolate 43 

Bread pudding 186 

Fruit cake 91 

Pie 83 

Pudding 191 

Sauce 191 

Chops, pan-broiled 139 

Cinnamon rolls 209 

Clover leaf biscuit 209 

Cocoa 43 

Coffee Jelly 178 

Composition of apple .... 13 

Banana 18 

Butter 68 

Egg 78 

Lean meat 120 

Orange 15 

Peaches 14 

Pears 14 

Pineapple 17 

Compressed yeast 216 

Consomm6 172 

Cookies, Boston 103 

Caraway 108 

Chocolate 108 

Cocoanut 108 

Drop . 102 

Molasses 108 

Oatmeal drop 108 

Peanut 101 

Rich 108 

RoUed 105 

Vanilla 107 

Collagen 167 



Com a la Southern 42 

Cottage cheese 57 

Pie 154 

Pudding 189 

Creamed sweetbreads .... 157 

Cream puffs 66 

Crisped crackers 171 

Curd 59 

Curried eggs 78 

Custard souffle 48 

Cutlets, veal 145 

Cuts of beef 128 

Mutton 132 

Pork 151 

Veal 147 

Dairy industry 62 

Drawn butter sauce 133 

Dry yeast 216 

Diunplings 156 

Apple 192 

Eggs, composition of ... . 78 

Curried 78 

Entire wheat bread . . . 211,215 

Flour . 212 

Pudding 194 

Extractives 134 

Fermentation 201 

Fingerrolls 209 

Fission 39 

Foamy sauce 49 

Fondant dipper HI 

White 109 

Fruits 9-30 

Citrous 15 

Composition of 10 

Food value of 11 

General rules of 11 

Gelatin 176,182 

Gelatinoids 180 

Gingerbread, Cambridge ... 95 

Gingersnaps 106 



Digitized by 



Google 



INDEX 



249 



Graham bread 213 

Flour 214 

Grape cornstarch mold .... 20 

Fruit 16 

Nectar 23 

Syllabub 23 

Ham, broiled 148 

Hamburg steak 118 

Hard sauce ^ 187 

Hash 155 

Indian pudding 188 

Invert sugar 26 

JeUy, coffee 178 

Lemon 176 

RoU 98 

Kosher meat 162 

Lactic acid 58 

Lactose 46 

Lady fingers 96 

Lamb 141 

Stew 136 

Lardoons 144 

Legumin 36 

Lemon jelly 176 

Pie . , 80 

Liquid yeast 216 

Liver and bacon 152 

Luncheon rolls 215 

Macedoine of fruit and nuts . 179 
Maitre d 'hotel butter . . . .114 

Measly pork 150 

Meat pie 129 

Meats 113 

Care of 163 

Our supply 158 

Preservation of 162 

Ripening of 163 

Melons 18 

Musk 19 

Serving 19 

Water 18 



Meringue 82 

Milk 46 

Bread 215 

And water bread 202 

Mill 43 

Minced meat on toast .... 154 

Mince pie 84 

Mint sauce 158 

Mock cream 192 

Molasses 96 

Molasses cookies 108 

Mutton 141 

Cuts of 132 

Noodle soup 173 

Oleomargarine 69 

Orange jelly 178 

Oranges 15 

Composition of 15 

Serving 15 

Our meat supply • 158 

Pan-broiled chops 139 

Parasites 149 

Parker House rolls 209 

Pasteurized milk 55 

Pastry 80 

Ba« 22 

Flour 83 

Peaches, composition of . . . 14 

Serving 14 

Peanut cookies 101 

Pears, composition of ... . 14 

Serving 14 

Pectin 13 

Perfect loaf of bread .... 204 

Perfection salad 181 

Pie, chocolate 83 

Lemon 80 

Mince 84 

Pineapple 17 

Composition of 17 

Serving 17 



Digitized by 



Google 



250 



INDEX 



PAGB 

Pork 149 

Cuts of 151 

Potato in the half Hshell ... 31 

Process butter 66 

Proportion of ingredients of 

bread 207 

Protein 32 

Prunes, stewed 29 

Puddings 185 

Bread and butter apple . . 65 

Chocolate 191 

Chocolate bread 186 

Cottage 189 

Entire wheat 194 

Fruit suet 194 

Indian 188 

Strawberry cottage .... 191 

Suet 194 

R6chauff68 131 

Rennet 61 

Custard 60 

Rennin 61 

Renovated butter 66 

Rib roast, serving 125 

Rich cookies 108 

Ripening of cream 64 

Meats 163 

Roast beef 123 

Roasting 127 

Rolled cookies 105 

Flank of beef 142 

Roast 124 

Serving 125 

Rolls and biscuits 208 

Luncheon 215 

Swedish 209 

Rye bread 215 

Sauce, brown 119, 146 

Chocolate 191 

Drawn butter 133 

Hard 187 



Sauce — Con tinned 

Maitre d'hotel 114 

Mint 158 

Mock cream 193 

Tomato 140 

Vanilla 189 

Searing 117 

Simmering 131 

Snow pudding 179 

Soups 165 

Bouillon 172 

Brown soup stock 165 

Consomm6 172 

Lamb 172 

White soup stock 172 

Sources of beef supply .... 159 

Souring of bread 199 

Spanish cake 89 

Sponge-cake batter 97 

Drops 98 

Spores 40 

Starter 64 

Stewed prunes 29 

Stewing 138 

Strawberries 19 

Strawberry cottage pudding . 191 

Stuffed hearts 158 

Suet 72 

Pudding 194 

Sunshine cake 98 

Swedish rolls 209 

Syrup tests 112 

Table service 218-224 

Theobromine 45 

Tomato sauce 140 

Soup with stock 170 

Trichina 150 

Trichinosis 150 

Vanilla cookies 107 

Sauce 189 

Veal 141 



Digitized by 



Google 



INDEX 251 

PAQB PAGB 

Veal— Continued Whey 59 

Birds 156 White Fondant 109 

Cutlets 146 Mountain cream 93 

Cuts 147 Soup stock 172 

Loaf 156 Yeast 216 

Wahiutcake 87 Compressed 216 

Waterbread(quickprocess)195,215 Dry 216 

Welsh rarebit 73 liquid 216 



Digitized by 



Google 



RECIPES 



Digitized by 



Google 



RECIPES 



Digitized by 



Google 



RECIPES 



Digitized by 



Google 



RECIPES 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



RECIPES 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 




Digitized by 



Google 



^mm:;-m^ 



III.: 



.lf*«3. i^ 








This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 



at |http : //books . google . com/ 





r 

AUSTIN'S 

DOMESTIC 

SCTRNC& 

BOOK ONE 



'vl!I5^^S^=ffl^=^^ 




f 



LYONS 6^CARNAHAN 




Digitized by 



Google 



./a. 



"Cp "^rcou^i-^ ^ 



Digifized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

BOOK ONE 



BV • - " 

BERTHA J. AUSTIN 

DIRECTOR OP DOMESTIC ARTS, ANDREWS INSTITUTE FOR GIRLS, 
WILLOUGHBY, OHIO 



MATERIAL COLLECTED BY A COMMITTEE OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

TEACHERS CO-OPERATING FROM DIFFERENT 

SECTIONS OF THE COUNTRY. 



LYONS & CARNAHAN 
CHICAGO NEW YORK 



Digitized by 



Google 






COPYRIGHT, 1914 
LYONS & CARNAHAN 



Digitized by 



Google 



'-^L-^ 



PREFACE 

The young woman who leams to play by ear a few simple 
tunes i§ in no sense a musician; neither is the young woman a 
cook who learns a few simple ways to cook meat and potatoes. 
Something more is required. The principles of cookery are 
more than the practice. Without belittling the deftness and 
mechanical perfection that come only through long experience, 
the cook who does not know the whys and wherefores of the 
processes she follows, is no more to be regarded as an educated 
cook than the man who rotates his crops without knowing why, 
is to be regarded as an educated farmer. A blind following of 
any rule or even custom is sure to result sooner or later in fatal 
mistakes, ^d nowhere is this truer than in the kitchen. 

This does not mean that the elaborate and expensive "made" 
dish is at all necessary to any nourishing and palatable fare. 
Other things being equal, economical cooking is apt to be the 
best cooking. For this reason, economy has been constantly 
in mind in the preparation of these lessons. 

The authors have attempted to be clear-cut and concise in 
the presentation of the lessons, and have at the same time tried 
to make the work attractive and easy to understand by illus- 
trating freely with up-to-date appliances and ideas. While 
proceeding from the simple to the more complex and from the 
easy to the more difficult problems, they have also kept in mind 
the seasons of the year when required supplies can most readily 
be procured. There are two reasons for this; first, economy, 
and second, the value to the student of being taught to use 
materials in season. 

Another purpose kept in view has been to make the work 
practical for ordinary, everyday people, for they constitute the 
great majority in this and every other nation. By this it is 

3 

M 202 Digitized by Google 

\ \ 



4 PREFACE 

not meant that all daintiness and attractiveness have been 
excluded. These qualities have received consideration in as 
far as they are obtainaMe without the sacrifice of economy and 
nutritive value. To this end each lesson has been supplemented 
with some information as to the most attractive and palatable 
serving of the dish taught. 

The complete series comprises three books. The first two 
books are designed for use in the first and second years of the 
course, and the third in the third and fourth years. The 
work has been so planned that pupils who must leave school 
before taking the last book will have gained a knowledge of 
the fundamentals and acquired the practical ability to cook 
meats, vegetables, and desserts in their simpler forms. They 
will also have learned how to buy meats and vegetables and 
have a knowledge of nutritive values that will enable them to 
practice the art of cookery with intelligence. 

If there be any claim to originality in these books, it is in the 
reading lessons, in which the attempt has been made to treat 
the subject of cookery in an intimate personal manner and to 
touch upon the history and literature of cooking. This has 
been done briefly and yet with the hope of adding color and gen- 
uine value to a subject that might otherwise prove monotonous. 

The main purpose throughout has been to inspire girls with 
respect for cooking and a love of cooking as an art and as a 
science, for it is both. 

The equipment for teaching Domestic Science in schools of 
various kinds is not treated in this work, inasmuch as this 
subject is of interest only to teachers and supervisors. A 
monograph by Helen Kinne, entitled Equipment for Teaching 
Domestic Science, which gives a very thorough exposition of the 
subject, may be obtained from Teachers' College, Columbia 
University, New York City. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CONTENTS 

LESSON PAGE 

I Cooking 9 

Arrangement and Care of the Laboratory ... 11 

II Baked Apple 14 

III Mashed Potato 18 

IV Baked Potato 20 

V Potatoes (Reading) 22-24 

VI SaxttIjed Onions 24 

VII White Sauce (One) 27 

VIII White Sauce (Two) 29 

IX Stuffed Tomato 33 

X Scalloped Tomatoes 35 

XI Squash 37 

XII Vegetables (Reading) 39 

XIII Cream of Potato Soup 43 

XIV Split Pea, Lentil, or Bean Puree 46 

XV Cream of Tomato Soup 48 

XVI Experiments with Starch 52 

XVII Corn Starch Mold 53 

XVIII The Fireless Cooker (Reading) 56 

XIX Corn Meal Mush 58 

Fried Corn Meal Mush with Caramel Sauce ... 58 

XX Steamed Rice with Dates 61 

XXI Turkish Pilaf 63 

XXII Oatmeal Mush with Apples 65 

XXIII Reading 

XXIV Sago Pudding 71 

XXV Tapioca Pudding 74 

XXVI Macaroni and Cheese 75 

XXVII Sugar (Reading) 78 

XXVIII Peanut Nougat 80 

XXIX Chocolate Fudge 82 

XXX Peanut and Potato Combination 85 

XXXI Nuts (Reading) 86 

5 

Digitized by LjOOQIC 



6 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

LESSON ^ PAGE 

XXXII Experiments with Eggs 92 

XXXIII Poached Egg 94 

XXXIV Plain Omelet '. 96 

XXXV Scrambled Eggs 100 

XXXVI Yellow Custard 100 

White Custard 103 

XXXVII Caramel Custard 104 

XXXVIII Additional Recipes 107 

XXXIX Eggs (Reading) '..... 109 

XL Pop-overs 112 

XLI Bread Griddle Cakes 114 

XLII Sour-Milk Griddle Cakes 117 

XLIII Graham Muffins 119 

XLIV Corn Meal Gems 121 

XLV Twin Mountain Muffins 123 

XLVI Plain Cake 125 

XLVII Plain Boiled Frosting 129 

XLVIII White Mountain Cream 130 

•XLIX Batters (Reading) 132 

L Drop Biscuit 137 

LI Baking Powder Biscuit 139 

LII Fruit Rolls 141 

LIII Short Cake 143 

LIV Plain Pastry 147 

LV Peach or Apple Pie 149 

LVI Custard Pie ' 152 

LVII Lettuce and Radish Salad with French Dressing . . 155 

LVIII Potato Salad 158 

LIX Fruit Salad ; 161 

LX Easter Salad 163 

LXI Sandwiches 166 

LXII Coffee 169 

LXIII Coffee (Reading) 172 

LXIV Tea 175 

Marketing 181 

Glossary 197 

Index 203 



Digitized by 



Google 



Cookery means the knowledge of Medea, 
and of Circe, and of Helen, and of the 
Queen of Sheba. It means knowledge of 
herbs and fruits and balms and spices and 
all that is healing and sweet in the fields 
and groves, and savory in m^eats. It 
means carefulness and inventiveness and 
willingness and readiness of appliances. 
It means the economy of your grandmothers 
and the science of the modem chemist; 
it means much testing and no wasting; it 
means English thoroughness and French 
art and Arabian hospitality; and, in fine, 
it means that you are to be perfectly and 
always ladies — loaf givers, — Ruskin. 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



Lesson I ' ; • ' • ' > - • • 

Cooking (Reading) 

It took many centuries for man to learn how to provide for 
himself comfortable shelter, food, and clothing, and a still longer 
time to make of his shelter a home furnished with conveniences 
for living, eating, and sleeping, such as we now enjoy. In times 
of old there were no dishes, for instance, but people by degrees 
learned to make them by hollowing out pieces of wood, then by 
shaping and drying clay and then by shaping metals. 

Wild fruits, berries, roots, and the like, eaten in their raw 
state, were the first food of man, and when the flesh of animals 
became a part of his diet, it also was eaten uncooked. It may 
have been accidentally discovered that heat applied to some 
foods improves their flavor, but, at any rate, the preparation 
of food for eating by means of cooking was a later development. 

Charles Lamb's well-known account of the origin of roast pig 
may be the product of his fancy, but it is well known that 
roasting was the first cooking process known to mankind. 
Later, people learned to wrap raw food in skins and leaves and 
bake it among red-hot stones or in the ashes. Still later, they 
found out that placing raw food in water which had been heated 
by dropping into it hot stones also made the food more palatable, 
and thus the art of boiling came into use. 

From these crude beginnings has sprung the modern art of 
cookery, an art which reveals more than two hundred ways of 
cooking eggs, to say nothing of the hundreds of ways of pre- 
paring and combining other food stuffs with appetizing results. 

9 



Digitized by 



Google 



10 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

In order to understand well the lessons in cooking and allied 
subjects which are to follow, it is necessary first to know the 
main uses of food and the reasons for cooking food. 

13tfei:ie is stn."Qld jg^&ig that we should not "live to eat, but 
eat 'to live.'"*'* Tfie'noied English author, Sydney Smith, once 

"Having ascerCdihed the weight of what I could live upon so 
as to preserve health and strength, and what I did live upon, 
I found that between ten and seventy years of age I had eaten 
and drunk forty-four wagon loads of meat and drink more than 
would have preserved me in life and health! The value of this 
mass of nourishment I considered to be worth seven thousand 
pounds, sterling. It occurred to nie that 1 must, by my own 
voracity, have starved to death fully a hundred persons. This 
is a frightful calculation, but irresistibly true." 

While it is true that we must eat if we would live, it is also 
true that the function of food in the body is not merely to keep 
it alive. Food in proper quantities and of the right quality 
supplies heat to the body and gives it energy and force whereby 
it may do needed tasks. Food replaces worn out cells and tis- 
sue and thus causes the body to grow and remain strong. 

Some foods, for instance, fats, produce more heat than others, 
such as fruits; consequently we find the Eskimos, who live in a 
cold coimtry, living upon a diet of the former, while the natives 
of the Philippines are satisfied to make the latter their chief food. 

The tissue-building foods are lean meats, the whites of eggs, 
part of milk, part of flour, and some vegetables, such as peas, 
beans, and lentils. 

The kind and amount of food a person requires depend upon 
his age, his work, his health, the time of year, and the climate. 

Of the many reasons for cooking food rather than serving it in 
its raw state, perhaps the most important is the fact that cooking 
renders most food more easy to digest, by changing its structure, 
putting it into a form which enables the tissues of the body 
to take what they need for renewal and growth. 



Digitized by 



Google 



INTRODUCTION H 

The flavor and odor of many foods are brought out by cook- 
ing and thus the appetite is tempted to a greater degree than 
when the food is raw. Add to this the fact that foods will keep 
longer in a cooked state and we have the principal reasons for 
practicing this modern art. 

Serving the meal in early times was perhaps even more crude 
than the preparation of the food for eating. Usually each one 
helped himself and to the strongest naturally fell the choicest 
morsels. A step in advance of this is the method which is 
practiced by the Eskimos today. A dish containing the food 
is set in the midst of the family and from this each one helps 
himself. From this to the refined way of serving the prepared 
food on tables covered with dainty white linen and decked 
with glass, silver, and china, with napkin and finger bowl at 
hand to insure cleanliness and comfort is a long step. 

Arrangement and Care of the Laboratory 

Before taking up the actual work in the cooking laboratory, 
there are several topics which need to be considered: 

1. Dress and care of the person for laboratory work 

2. The laboratory (or kitchen) 

(a) Lighting and ventilation 
(6) Order and cleanliness 
(c) Utensils 

Nmnber and kind 
Arrangement 
Care of 
1. It is a well known fact that odors seem to cling to woolen 
cloth. Add to this that such cloth cannot be easily washed and 
cleaned, and the unfitness of such material for laboratory or 
kitchen wear is readily seen. Washable dresses are the only 
suitable ones for such work. If long sleeves are worn, they 
should be protected by oversleeves also made of tub goods. 
An apron as long as the dress skirt, made with a bib, should be of 



Digitized by 



Google 



12 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



white goods. The costume is prettier if the oversleeves and the 
apron are of the same material. ' 

The hair should be carefully dressed so that no loose hairs 
are flying, or a cap similar to a dusting cap may be worn, the 
latter being the safer way. 

No rings or bracelets should be worn during the laboratory 
period as they are in the way and also are likely to retain any 
dirt that gets on them. 

When entering the laboratory, the hands should be washed 
with soap and water and the nails carefully cleaned. It is well 
to keep a damp hand towel at hand (it may be pinned to the 
belt) to wipe the hands upon when necessary. To use the apron 
or dish towel for this purpose is untidy and unsanitary. 

2. (a) The laboratory or kitchen should be well lighted and 
ventilated. Sunshine, beside making the work easier and more 
pleasant, helps to purify the air. Plenty of pure air in circu- 
lation is necessary to keep the room free from offensive odors. 
No odors of previous cooking should greet a person entering 
the room. 

(6) The desk or table and everything in the laboratory, 
including the stove and oven, should be kept in perfect order and 
cleanliness. Each utensil should have its place and be kept 
there when not in use. *' A place for everything and everything 
in its place, ^' is a motto which, if followed, would save the 
housewife much time and energy. 

Since each laboratory will have its own desk arrangement, no 

set rules as to the placing of 
utensils can be given, but a 
suggestion may be helpful. 
There is usually an inclosed 
shelf under the desk, and the 
dishes commonly used may 
be on this shelf according to 
the accompanying, or some 
Fig. 1 similar arrangement. 



Sauce pan Frying pan Strainer 
Dinner plate Tin plate Sm. plate 



Large bowl Sm. bowl 



White cup 



Measuring 
cup 



a 
3 



03 
(D 



Digitized by 



Google 



INTRODUCTION 



13 



A large drawer at the side may be arranged in the manner 
shown in Figure 2. 

The pad for hot dishes and a match-box should be on top of 
the desk. 

Under the shelf there may 
be a space where the dish- 
pan and stool may be kept, 
and under the drawer a 
place for the gas or oil-stove 
oven. The more modern 
desks, however, have a 
sliding seat and have an 
oven attached above the 
desk adjusted so as to swing Fig. 2 

back out of the way when not in use. Figure 3 shows one of 
the best of the late models for these desks. It has the enclosed 
shelf for utensils below, sliding seat, sliding work-shelves, 
drawers, and gas plates. 



Uniform 

Hand-towel 

Holder 

Partition 

Wire egg beater 
Wooden spoon 
Case knife 
Paring knife 
Fork 
Teaspoon 




Fig, 3 



Each two girls usually have one dish towel and one dish washer 
between them. At the end of the laboratory period, these 
should be thoroughly washed in soap and water, rinsed, and 
carefully and neatly hung in a light airy place to dry. 



Digitized by 



Google 



14 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



Lesson 11 



Baked Apple 
Materials used: 

Tablespoon, tb, = 3 teaspoons, or 192 drops. When not otherwise 
specified, a tablespoonful means a level tablespoonful. 

Medium-sized apple 1 tb boiling water 

2 tb sugar 3 tb cream 

Utensils needed: 

Paring knife or corer egg beater (Dover) 

case knife and fork tablespoon 

small granite pan vegetable brush 

saucepan 
Work to be done: 

1. Wash the apple in clean water with a vegetable brush; 
take out the core either with the paring knife or with the corer, 

holding the apple in the left 
hand in such a way that 
the stem end is in the space 
between the thumb and the 
first finger, and the blow 
end is in the space between 
the thumb and the little 
finger. This manner of 
holding prevents any danger 
of the knife's slipping and 
cutting the hand. 

2. Place the cored apple 
on the granite pan. Meas- 
ure 2 tb sugar; to do this, 
dip up as much sugar as the 
spoon will hold, then level it off with the case knife. Pour the 
sugar over the cored apple. 

3. Put a little water in the saucepan and heat it to the boiling 
point. Pour 1 tb of this into the pan with the apple. 




Fig. 4. — Coring the Apple 



Digitized by 



Google 



INTRODUCTION 



15 




4. Place the apple in a moderately heated oven and bake for 
20 or 30 minutes, or uiitil it is tender enough to be pierced 
easily with a fork. While 
it is baking, baste the apple 
several times, that is, dip up 
some of the syrup formed in 
the pan by the sugar, water, 
and juice of the baking 
apple, and pour it over the 
apple. This keeps the apple 
from becoming dry on the 
top and burning. 

5. When done, carefully 
remove from pan, place on 
a dessert plate and set away 
to cool. 
Principles: 

The substance of an 
apple is a form of sugar. ^<^- 5--LeveUng off tablespoonful 

This is contained in a large number of little cavities, known as 
cells. The walls of these cells and the framework holding the 
cells together are made up of a paper-like substance, called 
cellulose. Cellulose is woody and will not dissolve in water, but 
it has been found that moist heat will break it down. This is 
what happens in the baking of the apple. 

Besides sugar and cellulose there is a great deal of water in 
an apple, which in combination with the heat of the oven causes 
the walls of cellulose to break down, setting free the sugar, the 
nourishing part of the apple, thus making it more easily acted 
upon by the digestive juices. 

Baking also changes the flavor of the apple, making it more 
pleasing to some people. 
Serving: 

Measure 3 tb cream into a bowl and beat with a Dover egg 
beater until stiff. 



Digitized by 



Google 



16 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 




Fig. 6. — Dover Egg Beater. 



To prevent the cream from spattering, take a piece of wrap- 
ping paper a little larger than the top of the bowl, cut a slit to 

the center, and fit it around the 
narrow part of the egg-beater. 

If it has not already been done, 
place the apple when cool on a 
dessert plate and pour the whipped 
cream over it and serve. 

This makes a good breakfast or 
luncheon dish and may also be 
served as a simple dessert for dinner. 
Table manners: 

The days when everyone seized 
his food and devoured it in the 
quickest time have passed away, 
and no surer index can be found to breeding than the manner 
in which one eats. 

The baked apple just described may be eaten with a teaspoon, 
but preferably with a fork. Begin at the center and eat only 
the pulpy part, leaving the skin on the plate. 

Rule : A spoon is used only for food too soft to be easily handled 
with a fork. 
Setting the table: 

Lay the pad, or silence cloth, on the table. This should be 
about three inches larger than the table on all sides. It should 
be pulled tight over the table, folded square at the corners, and 
pinned underneath. This cloth prevents noise, protects the 
table from injury from hot dishes, improves the appearance of 
the linen, and saves it from wear. 
Cleaning up: 

1. As soon as the apple is taken from the baking tin, pour 
hot water into the tin to dissolve the sticky substance formed 
from the sugar and water. 

2. As soon as the cream has been whipped, rinse the egg- 
beater in hot water, being careful not to wet the cogs of the wheel. 



Digitized by 



Google 



INTRODUCTION 17 

3. Prepare two pans of water, one with hot, soapy water and 
the other with hotter clear water for rinsing. In order to save 
the hands use the dish washer as much as possible instead of a 
cloth. Much hotter water can be used if this is done. 

4. Wash the dishes in the following order: 

(a) glass (c) china (e) granite or tin 

(b) silver (d) crockery (f) kitchen utensils 
The dishes should be thoroughly dried and carefully put away 

in their proper places. 
What has been learned: 

1. Apples are composed of a sugar-like substance, cellulose, 
and water. 

2. Moist heat will break up the cellulose and thus soften the 
apple. 

3. Baking thus makes an apple easier to digest. 

4. Baking also changes the flavor of an apple. 



Digitized by 



Google 



VEGETABLES 

Lesson m 

Mashed Potato 
Materials used: 

1 teaspoon, tp, = 64 drops. 

1 potato 2 tb milk 1 tp butter i tp salt 

Utensils needed: ^ 

Granite pan with ^^ potato masher or 

cover ^ ^w ^A ricer (Figure 7) 

paring knife ^ ^^^ fork 

dish for parings ^^^^S-^ teaspoon 

bowl ^^ ^^ tablespoon 

Work to be done: Fig. 7 

1. Wash the potato in the bowl and pare, taking the parings 
off lengthwise. Be careful to pare thin. 

2. Remove the eyes and wash the potato. 

3. If the potato is large, cut in two lengthwise. 

4. Have enough boiling water in the granite pan to cover 
the potato. 

5. Put the salt in the water and then put in the potato. 
Cover. 

6. Boil until the potato can be easily pierced with a fork, then 
drain off the water at once so that the potato will not be soggy. 

7. Mash thoroughly or put the potato through the ricer. 

8. Add the milk and butter and beat with the fork until 
light. 

Principles: 

Potatoes are made up very largely of starch, cellulose, and 
water. Cellulose, it will be remembered, is a woody fiber which 
is present in all plants. The cellulose is built up around the 
little grains of starch. Raw potatoes are of but little use to 

18 



Digitized by 



Google 



VEGETABLES 



19 



human beings because the starch is surrounded by the cellulose 
and the digestive organs are not able to break down this wall 
to get all the starch. When the starch comes in contact with 




Fig. 8 



Fig. 9 



Fig. 10 



the boiUng water, the little starch grains swell so that they 
burst their skins. Then the digestive juices easily act upon 
the starch. The chief advantage, then, in cooking potatoes is 
that cooked starch is more easily digested than raw starch. 

Mashed potatoes, properly made, have a great deal of air 
beaten into them. This air makes them very light, gives them 
a whiter color, and makes them taste better. 
Serving: 

Put the potato into an oblong vegetable dish, leaving it fluffy 
and light, and serve. If desired, make a little hollow in the 
center and place in it a small piece of butter. 

A little garnishing of parsley, that is, tiny pieces of parsley 
scattered over the top or arranged around the edge of the dish, 
adds to the attractiveness of the dish. 

Whenmashed potatoes are served at dinner, it is usual to serve 
them from a large dish which may also be garnished with parsley. 
Table manners: 

Mashed potatoes are eaten with a fork. 

Rule: Only forks and spoons are used to carry food to the mouth. 
Setting the table: 

The table cloth, which should be ironed and folded with great 
care, with as few folds as practicable, should be carefully 



Digitized by 



Google 



20 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

unfolded. It is much easier to keep from mussing it if two girls 
unfold and lay the cloth. Lay it lengthwise of the table with 
the long crease exactly in the center and the same length of 
cloth, about nine inches, hanging over each end. Carefully 
smooth out the creases by standing at either end and passing 
the hands, palms downward, lightly over the cloth from the 
center to the outsides, the full length of the table. Repeat the 
same operation standing at the middle of the sides. 
What has been learned: 

1. Starch grains of potatoes are surrounded by a wall of 
cellulose. (Figure 8.) 

2. Boiling water causes starch grains to swell. (Figure 9.) 

3. When starch grains swell, they burst this covering of 
cellulose. (Figure 10.) 

4. When the cellulose surrounding the starch grains is broken 
down, the digestive juices have a chance to act upon the starch. 

5. Raw starch is less digestible than cooked starch. 

6. Air beaten into a mixture makes it light and more pala- 
table. 

Lesson IV 

Baked Potatoes 
Materials used: 

1 potato 
Utensils needed: 

Vegetable brush fork bowl oven (hot) 

Work to be done: 

1. Scrub the potato thoroughly in clean water with the brush. 

2. Place on the upper grate of the oven, because it is hotter 
there. 

3. Turn the potato once in a while to insure even baking. 

4. Bake until it feels soft. With medium-sized potatoes, 
this will be about 45 minutes. 

5. Roll rapidly in the hand, then break the skin to allow the 
steam to escape so that the potato will not be soggy. 



Digitized by 



Google 



VEGETABLES 21 

Principles: 

Potatoes, as already learned, contain a great deal of water. 
For this reason, they, like apples, may be cooked by baking. 
The effect upon the cellular structure is just the same as when 
they are cooked in boiling water. One advantage of baking 
potatoes over boilingthemisthatnoneof thenourishingpartis lost 
in the former process, while thereis somelostin the latter through 
its being dissolved both in the water in which they are washed 
(after being pared) and in that in which they are cooked. 
Serving: 

Place the potato in a vegetable dish and serve with a fork 
and small plate. 

To prepare a baked potato for eating, break in two crosswise 
and remove the contents with a fork, placing them on the plate 
and the skin in the vegetable dish. Mash, sprinkle with a Uttle 
pepper and salt, dot with butter, or cover with gravy if served 
at a meal, and eat with a fork. 
Table manners: 

Rule: The napkin should be placed on the lap with one fold, 
rather than spread out its full size. 
Setting the table: 

After the cloth is laid, the centerpiece, if there be one, should 
be placed in the center of the table and upon it should be placed 
the bouquet or other decoration. The flowers used for table 
decoration should be suflSciently low to permit those on opposite 
sides of the table to see each other. 

If loose flowers are to be used on the table, they should not be 
scattered profusely, but laid carelessly here and there, or one 
or two small ones laid on each napkin. (See Figure 13.) 
Cleaning up: 

1. If any potatoes are unused, place on a dish and set in the 
icebox. 
. 2. Wash the dishes as before directed. 

3. Carefully wipe the stove and oven and set the latter in its 
place. 



Digitized by 



Google 



22 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

4. Remember to clean and dry all dishes and towels before 
putting away. 
What has been learned: 

1. Baked potatoes are more nourishing than boiled ones, 
therefore more economical. 

2. The skin of the baked potato should be broken as soon as 
the potato is done. 

Lesson V 
Potatoes (Reading) 

The potato was used as a food by the Indians of the central 
part of the western continent long before the discovery of Amer- 
ica. It was introduced into Europe in the sixteenth century 
by the Spaniards, but not as a food, for it was at first planted 
in the flower garden as a curiosity. Sir Walter Raleigh brought 
its value as a food to the notice of Queen Elizabeth. Its culti- 
vation first became general in Ireland where its large yield made 
it popular as a food during times of failure of other crops. For 
this reason it is usually known as the Irish potato. Today it 
stands first among the vegetables as a common food, and is 
raised in every country of Europe as well as America. 

In the new state of New Mexico the wild potato still grows 
in the imtilled canyons of the mountains. It is precisely like 
the potato grpwn in every American garden today except in 
size. This grandfather of the common tuber is no larger than 
a pea or, at most, a hazelnut. But it has the same kind and 
number of eyes as its big descendant, and its flavor, skin, and 
habit of growth differ in no particular. Even the blossoms are 
like those of the modern potato, save that they are no larger 
than a forget-me-not. If one had time and inclination to dig 
And gather enough wild potatoes to make a salad or to serve 
them boiled "in the jackets," these tiny tubers would be found 
as finely flavored as any sold in the markets. The contrast 
between the wild potato and its modern relative is made all 



Digitized by 



Google 



VEGETABLES 



23 



the more apparent by the immense size of the potatoes grown 
in the same region by means of irrigation. 

A great many people think of the potato as being a root, but 
if the little depressions, known as "eyes," are examined, it will 
be found that they are leaf 
scars, and, since leaf scars 
are found only on the stems 
of plants, the potato cannot 
be a root, but must be an 
underground stem. It is 
usually spoken of as a tuber. 
When a potato is planted, 
it is cut into pieces, each 
piece having a couple of eyes 
in it. These eyes sprout 
and give us a new plant. 

About three-fourths of 
the potato is water, one-fifth 
is starch and the rest is 
tissue-building material and 
mineral salts. Since pota- 
toes contain no fat and very 
little tissue-building material, they are served with fatty foods, 
such as butter, cream, and gravy, or with such tissue-building 
material, as eggs, cheese, milk or meat. 

For cooking, smooth, medium-sized potatoes should be 
chosen, for smoothness indicates soundness and medium-sized 
potatoes prevent waste. Potatoes having green spots should be 
avoided, for these green spots are caused by their being grown 
too near the surface of the ground, and are a sign of bitterness. 

When sprouts appear upon potatoes in the spring, they should 
be removed at once. The food which nourishes them is obtained 
from the potato; if they are allowed to grow, they will soon 
absorb the nourishment of the potato, which then becomes 
unfit for use. 




Fig. 11.— Potato Plant 



Digitized by 



Google 



24 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Additional Recipes 

Bakbd Sweet Potatoes 
Prepare and bake same as white potatoes. 

Boiled Sweet Potatoes 
Select potatoes of uniform size. Wash, pare, and cook until done in 
boiling salted water sufl&cient to cover. Sweet potatoes may be boiled 
with their skins on. 

Lesson VI 

Sauteed Onions 

Materials used: 

1 large or 2 small onions J tp salt 

1 tb butter a few grains of pepper 

Utensils needed: ^.^^^ 

Paring knife ^ ^^^"^ ^^® knife and fork 

a small pan ^^^— ^3lr tablespoon 

bowl — ^^ teaspoon 

omelet pan with cover ^^^- I2.~0melet Pan towel 

Work to be done: 

1. Pare the onion under water (to keep the eyes from smart- 
ing). Use the small pan. (To remove odor from hands, rub 
them with salt before washing.) 

2. Place in the bowl and wash in clean water. 

3. Cut the onion crosswise into thin slices. 

4. Place the butter in the omelet pan and heat. 

5. Add onions, season with salt and pepper and cover. (Be 
careful not to have too hot a fire, for onions burn easily.) 

6. Stir freqiifently with a fork to cook evenly and prevent 
burning. 

Principles: 

When food is cooked in a very little fat, it is said to be sau- 
ted (so ted'). Many vegetables as well as eggs and meat may 
be cooked in this way. 



Digitized by 



Google 



VEGETABLES 



25 



Because the article being cooked is not surrounded by heat 
as it is in boiling and baking, it must be turned at least once in 
order to expose all sides to the heat and thus cook thoroughly. 
As onions require long cooking, they must be turned often to 
prevent burning. 

Keeping the pan covered hastens the cooking. The rising 
steam strikes the cover, and condenses into drops of water which 
trickle down the sides of the pan and help to cook the onions. 
The heat of the steam is not allowed to escape and therefore 
assists in cooking. Water in a covered vessel boils sooner than 
in an uncovered one. 
Serving: 

Serve on a vegetable dish, or with beefsteak at a regular meal. 

Onions are eaten with a fork. 
Table manners: 

. The knife or fork, when not in use, should be placed across the 
plate at the right side. 
Setting the table: 

It is now custom- 
ary, at a formal 
dinner, to place a 
service plate for 
each person. This 
plate, of the large 
dinner size, is put 
in the middle of the 
spac^ allotted to 
each, about twenty 
inches, and about 
an inch from the 
edge of the table. 
These plates are put on the table before the dinner is served 
and not removed until just before the dessert is brought in. 

The placing of the knives, forks, and spoons upon the table 
requires thought and attention. The nimiber and position of 




Fig. 13.— Set for Formal Dinner 



Digitized by 



Google 



26 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 




Fig. 14. — Service Plate with 
Knives at Right 



each depend upon the meal and what is to be served. The 

convenience of the guest is the one unchanging rule that de- 
termines the placing. 

When a knife or knives 
are to be used, as many as 
will be needed before des- 
sert should be placed at the 
right of the service plate, 
each one with the sharp 
edge turned toward the 
plate, in the order in which 
they are to be used, begin- 
ning at the extreme right, 

that is, the one first used is the one farthest from the plate. 

Cleaning up: 

1. Put hot water in the pan used for cooking the onion to get 
it ready for washing. 

2. Wash the dishes as before directed. 
What has been learned: 

1. To saut6 is to cook in a little fat. 

2. A covered vessel hastens cooking. 

3. Greasy dishes should be soaked in hot water, 

Additional Recipes 

Sauteed Onions (Home Rule) 
Take four or five times the amount given in the class rule (depending 
on the niunber to be served) and proceed as directed. 

Glazed Onions 
Select small onions, wash, and remove the outside skins. Boil or steam 
until perfectly tender. Put butter into a pan, using the same amount 
for a given quantity of onions as in the sauteed onions. Let the butter 
brown. Put in the drained onions. Sprinkle with sugar, using i tp to 
each onion. Serve with meat. 

Glazed Sweet Potatoes 
Wash and pare six medium-sized potatoes. Cook ten minutes in boihng 
salted water. Drain, cut in halves lengthwise, and put in a buttered pan. 



Digitized by 



Google 



VEGETABLES 



27 



Make a syrup by boiling three minutes 1} cups sugar and four tablespoons 
water. Add 1 tb butter. Brush potatoes with the syrup and bake 
forty minutes, basting twice with the remaining syrup. 



Lesson Vn 



White Sauce (One) 
Materials used: 

1 cup,.c, == 16 tablespoons = § pint. 

1 level tablespoon butter = i ounce,^ oz. Butter is measured levdf roundj 
or heaping. A round tablespoon =» 1 oz. A heaping tablespoon = 2 oz. = Jc 
Unless otherwise stated, measures are always level, 

i cup diced, boiled, or baked potatoes or other cold cooked 
vegetable (prepared by the teacher) 




Fig. 15.— 
Measuring Cup 



1 tb butter 

li tb flour 

a few grains of pepper 
Utensils needed: 

Granite pan 

measuring cup 

teaspoon 
Work to be done: 

1. Sift the flour through the sieve. 

and should never be measured 

unsifted.) Figure 16. 

2. Mix the flour with the 
seasonings. 

3. Melt the butter in the 
granite pan, but do not brown, 

4. Put the seasoned flour in 
the butter, mixing thoroughly. 

5. Add the milk, stirring 
briskly all the time. 

6. Stir until the sauce boils. 

7. Add the prepared potatoes 
to the sauce and serve hot. 



I cup milk 
I tp salt 



case knife 

tablespoon 

sieve 



(Flour packs in the bin 




Fig. 16.— Sifting Flour 



Digitized by 



Google 



28 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 




Principles: 

Flour contains a great deal of starch. You have already 
learned that moist heat causes the starch grains to swell; it is 

this swelling that thick- 
ens the milk in the white 
sauce. Mixing the flour 
with the melted butter 
separates each little 
particle of flour from 
its neighbor, so that 
each will be completely 
surrounded by th e liquid 
as soon as the milk is 
Fig. 17.— Holding Fork in Improper Position added. If the butter 

and flour are not thoroughly mixed before adding the milk or 
the sauce is not stirred during the cooking, It will be lumpy. 
Serving: 

When served at a meal, luncheon or dinner, potatoes with 
white sauce (also known as creamed potatoes) are usually 
placed on the table in one dish, unless the dinner is served from 
the pantry, and served on the plate with the meat. They should 
be eaten with a fork. 
Table manners: 

The knife and fork when used 
for cutting should be held as here 
shown f the handles in the hollows of 
the hands, not as shown in Fig* 17. 
Setting the table: 

When knives are needed, as 
for a formal dinner or when 
uncut meat is served, the forks 
should be placed at the left of 
the service plate, as many as are 




Fig. 18. — Holding Fork Properly 



needed before the dessert, in the order they are to be used, 
beginning at the extreme left. All the tines should be turned up* 



Digitized by 



Google 



VEGETABLES 



29 



This order will be as follows (if the hostess is so fortunate as to 
possess the different kinds): 1 (at left) oyster; 2, fish; 3, meat; 
4, salad. 

If there are not too 
many courses so that 
there is a great display 
of silver, the dessert fork 
may be placed on the 
table with the others at 
the beginning, next to 
the service plate. 
Cleaning up: 

Soak the granite pan and stirring spoon in cold water. Pro- 
ceed as directed in previous lessons. 
What has been learned: 

Flour contains much starch. 

Thorough mixing and constant stirring prevent lumpy sauce. 

The starch thickens a liquid when heat is applied. 




Fig. 19.— Forks at Left of Service Plate 



Lesson Vm 



White Sauce (Two) 
Materials used: 

Same as in Lesson VII 
Utensils needed: 

Same as in Lesson VII cup and plate 

Work to be done: 

1. Sift a sieve full of flour into a plate. 

2. Measure the flour asdirected inLesson VII, and place in cup. 

3. Add I tb milk to the flour and mix to a paste. (If too 
much milk is added at first, the mixture will be lumpy.) 

4. Add another J tb milk and mix well. 

5. Add 1 tb milk and mix. 

6. Add enough milk to make the mixture like thin cream. 
Mix well. 



Digitized by 



Google 



30 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



7. Pour the rest of the milk into the saucepan and heat. 

8. Add the flour and milk mixture, stirring constantly until 
it boils. 

9. Just before taking from the fire, add the butter, salt, and 
pepper. 

Principles: 

The little grains of flour must be separated from each other 
if the sauce is to be smooth and free from lumps. This is accom- 
plished by adding a very little milk to the flour until a thick 
paste is formed. The friction between the mixing spoon and the 
flour mixture is sufficient to crush any liunps that may be 
formed. As more liquid is added, the grains are separated still 
more, until when the mixture reaches the thickness of thin 
cream it may be easily poured into the heated milk. 

This method of making white sauce is much used in making 
soup3 and gravies. White sauces make it possible for the house- 
wife to warm over and serve in a palatable form cold cooked 
vegetables and some meats, such as chicken and veal, which 

would otherwise be 
wasted. 
Table manners: 

Rule: Whenused 
to carry to the mouth 
meat or other food 
which must first be 
cut, the fork should 
he held in the left 
hand. When used 
for other food, it 
should he held in the 
right hand. Fig. 20. 
Setting the table : 

The teaspoons 
are the next silver to 
Fig. 20. — Eating Salad, Fork in Right Hand place on the table. 




Digitized by 



Google 



VEGETABLES 31 

No set rule can be given for their placing, as usage differs in 
different places and at different times. When both knives and 
forks are used and tea or coffee is served with the main course, 
the teaspoons, as many as are needed, maybe placed in front of the 
service plate, handles to the right and arranged symmetrically 
with the one to be used last next to the plate; or they may be 
placed at the right of the knives; in either case the soup spoon 
should always be at the right of the knives. If only forks are 
used, these may be placed at the right of the plate and the spoons 
to the right of them, the one to be used first being at the extreme 
right. If the coffee is not served until the dessert is brought in, 
some hostesses do not place any teaspoons on the table at the 
beginning, as there will be, in most cases, no use for them. 
If there be need for any, they are placed at the right of the 
knives, the one to be used first being farthest to the right. 
What has been learned: 

Grains of flour may be separated as well by mixing with a 
liquid as by mixing with butter. 

White sauces enable the housewife to save left-over cooked 
vegetables, and are thus economical. 

Recipes 

Brussels Sprouts in Whtte Sauce 

Pick over, remove wilted leaves, and soak bmssels sprouts for a while 
in ice-cold water to restore crispness. Cook in boiling, salted water, 
covered, till they are tender. Drain, and to each pint add one cup of thin 
white sauce. 

Cabbage in White Sauce 

Cut cabbage into small pieces, boil it in salted water till tender, drain 
and heat in white sauce number 1. Or, place the boiled cabbage in a 
dish, cover with white sauce, lift the cabbage with a fork so as to mix it 
thoroughly with the sauce, sprinkle with buttered bread crumbs, and bake 
till crumbs are brown. 

Creamed Cauliflower 

Remove the outer leaves from the stalk. Place the cauliflower, head 
down, in cold, slightly salted water for thirty minutes. (This will draw 
any insects that may be lurking in the head.) Break or cut into suit- 



Digitized by 



Google 



32 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

able pieces and cook cauliflower in boiling salted water, covered, till tender; 
drain, separate the little bunches and reheat in white sauce. 

Creamed Celery 

Wash and scrape celery and cut into inch pieces. Cook in boiling 
salted water, covered, till soft; drain, and to 2 cups of celery add 1 cup 
of thin white sauce. The outer stalks of celery are best used in this way. 

Creamed Onions 

Place onions in cold water and remove the skins while the onions are 
under water. (This prevents their hurting the eyes.) Drain, cover with 
boiling water, and let boil five minutes; drain, to remove some of the 
strong flavor, and again cover with boiling salted water; cook till tender 
and drain. The onions may be served plain with butter, salt, and pepper 
for seasoning, or they may be covered with white sauce. Or, cut the boiled 
onions in pieces, place in a baking dish, cover with white sauce, sprinkle 
with cracker crumbs, and bake till the crumbs are brown. 

To remove the odor from the hands after preparing raw onions, rub 
the hands with salt before washing them. 

Creamed Salsify 

Wash and scrape the salsify and place it at once in water to which a few 
drops of vinegar have been added. This prevents its discoloration. Cut 
salsify in sUces, cook in boiling salted water, covered; drain and add white 
sauce. 

Creamed Peas 

Cook peas in boiling water until tender, uncovered, adding salt just 
before the peas are done; drain; season with butter, salt, and pepper. 
Or, drain and to two cups of peas add three-fourths cup white sauce number 
2. Canned peas may be drained, rinsed, and reheated in the sauce. 

Creamed Turnips 

These may be washed, pared, cut into slices or cubes, cooked in boiling 
salted water, drained, and served with white sauce. 

Creamed Carrots 

These should be scraped, cut into strips, slices or cubes, and cooked 
in boiling salted water till tender, drained, and served with white sauce. 

Creamed Potato 

Reheat two cups of cold boiled potato, cut into dice, in one cup of 
white sauce. 



Digitized by 



Google 



VEGETABLES 
Lesson IX 



33 



Stuffed Tomato 



Materials used: 

Medium-sized, ripe, firm tomato 
small slice of stale bread 
dash of pepper 
Utensils needed: 
Bowl 



§ tp butter J tpsalt 



kneading board 
granite pie tin 
omelet pan 
small plate 
fork 




Fig. 21.— Stuffed Tomato 



paring knife 

case knife 

teaspoon 

rolling-pin 
Work to be done: 

1. Wash the tomato in clean cold water, wipe, and cut oflF a 
slice from the stem end. Dig out the seeds with a spoon, leav- 
ing the core and the partitions. 

(Be careful not to let the tomato stand on a tin dish, for 
the acid of the tomato when it comes in contact with the 

tin forms a poison.) 

2. Put the slice 
of bread on the 
kneading-board 
and pound and roll 
it until it is thor- 
oughly crumbled. 

3. Melt the but- 
ter in the omelet 
pan, but do not 
brown or bum it. 

4. While the butter is still in the pan, add the bread crumbs. 

5. Add the pepper and salt and mix the four things thoroughly. 

6. Fill the spaces in the tomato with these seasoned crumbs, 
using a teaspoon. 




Rolling Bread Crumbs 



Digitized by 



Google 



34 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



7. Put the slice back on the top, place the tomato in the 
granite pie tin, and bake in a moderate oven 15 or 20 minutes. 
Principles: 

Like all other vegetables, tomatoes contain cellulose. They 
also contain a great deal of water — so much, in fact, that they 
can be cookied in their own juice, which will moisten the bread 
crumbs. 

Tomatoes are a heat and energy-giving food, while, on the 
other hand, bread is a tissue-building food, hence, the two 
together have a greater food value than either alone would 
have. 




Fig. 23.— a Table Set Without Service Plates 
Serving: 

Heat the small plate, slip the tomato when done onto it, 
garnish with parsley, and serve hot. This is appropriate for 
dinner or luncheon. Eat with a fork. 
Table manners: 

Do not open the mouth to receive food until the food reaches the 
mouth. 
Setting the table: 

Napkins are folded in quarters and placed on the table 
parallel with the edge of the table and on a line with the service 
plate, the free edges being to the right and to the edge of the 
table. (See Figure 13.) 



Digitized by 



Google 



VEGETABLES 35 

The napkin should be placed at the left of the forks, if they 
are at the left, and at the left of the plate if the forks are at 
the right. 

If no service plate is used, the napkin should be where the 
plate is ordinarily placed. (See Figure 23.) 
Cleaning up: 

1. Be sure to use plenty of hot soapy water for washing the 
greasy dishes, such as the omelet pan in which the butter was 
melted. 

2. Scour all discolored dishes and utensils, and put everything 
away carefully. 

3. Leave the dish towels and washer sweet and clean. 
What has been learned:* 

1. Adding bread to the tomato gives it greater food value. 

2. Tomatoes contain an acid which forms a poison when in 
contact with tin. 

Lesson X 

Scalloped Tomato 

Materials used: 

Medium-sized firm tomato 1 c stale bread crumbs 

J c boiling water J tb butter 

i c cold water salt and pepper 

Utensils needed: 

Baking dish (granite or rolling-pin case knife 

earthenware cup) spoon tablespoon 

bowl • pan omelet pan 

Work to be done: 

1. Place the tomato in the pan and pour boiling water over 
it. Let it stand one minute. 

2. Drain oflf the hot water and cover with cold water. 

3. Remove the skin, which will now come off easily. (See 
Figure 24.) 

4. Roll the bread cnunbs on the kneading-board. 



Digitized by 



Google 



36 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 




Pig. 24. — Removing Skin from Tomato 



5. Measure out J tb butter by packing the butter into the 
spoon, leveling oflf the top with the edge of a knife, then dividing 
it lengthwise into halves and dividing one-half into halves. 

6. Melt the butter in 
the omelet pan, being care- 
ful not to let it burn. 

7. Add the bread criunbs. 

8. Cover the bottom 
of the baking dish with a 
layer of the bread crumbs. 

9. Cut the tomato into 
slices a quarter-inch in 
thickness. 

10. Place a slice of tomato 
on the bread crumbs in the 
dish. 

11. Season with a little salt and pepper and dot with butter. 

12. Place a layer of bread crumbs over the tomato, then 
another slice of tomato, and continue alternating the two, not 
forgetting to season each slice, until the dish is filled, with a 
layer of bread crumbs on top. 

13. Bake in a moderate oven until the crumbs are browned. 
Principles: 

A scalloped vegetable, containing, as it does, bread, butter, 
and the vegetable, that is, tissue-building, heat-giving, and 
energy-producing food, possesses food value, hence is a good 
dish to form the main 
part of a luncheon. 
Serving: 

Scalloped tomatoes 
should be served hot in 
the dish in which they 
were baked. 

For a luncheon or 
dinner, they may be 




Fig. 25. — Scalloped Tomatoes in Individual 
Ramekins and in Baking Dish 



Digitized by 



Google 



VEGETABLES 37 

baked in a baking dish or in individual ramekins. (See 
Figure 25.) They should be eaten with a fork. 
Table manners: 

Always eat or sip from the side of a spoon. 
Setting the table: 

If the dinner is a formal one, just before it is served a dinner- 
roll, bread-stick, or a piece of bread 2^ by 1^ inches is placed on 
the napkin, which is folded over once to cover it partially. 

When the number of forks makes the table look crowded, 
many hostesses lay the napkin on the service plate. 

Glasses for water should be set at the right and a little above 
the service plate or at the tip of the knife nearest the plate. 
Cleaning up: 

If the tomato sticks or is burned to the baking dish, remove 
it with sapolio. 
What has been learned: 

« 1. The skin of the tomato can be easily removed by the use of 
first, boiling water, and second, cold water. 

2. The food value of a dish can be increased by combining 
foods furnishing different food principles. 

Lesson XI 

Squash 
Materials used: 

Squash, medium-sized i tp butter for Qach piece 

I c sugar for each piece salt and pepper 

Utensils needed: ^d'^^^iw 

Vegetable brush ^j^^^^^^^Bk spoon 
sharp knife ^Mfir^^ia ^^^^ 

steamer OT^^^^^H oven 

kettle liB JII. _J dessert plate 

case knife Fig. 26. — Steamer 

Work to be done: 

1. Wash the squash well, using the vegetable brush. 



Digitized by 



Google 



38 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

2. With a sharp knife, cut into halves lengthwise. 

3. Place a large piece of wrapping paper on the desk or table. 

4. Scoop out all the seeds and stringy substance with a spoon, 
place in the paper and empty into the garbage pail. 

5. Cut the squash into pieces about 2| by 4 inches. 

6. Put half the pieces into a moderately heated oven and bake 
until they can be pierced easily with a silver fork. 

7. Place the remainder in a steamer. 

8. Bring a quart of water to a boil in a kettle which the 
steamer fits over. 

9. Place the steamer over the kettle and keep the water 
boiling until the pieces can be easily pierced with a fork. 
Principles: 

The baking of squash forms a hard, tough skin over all the 
cut surface, thus decreasing the amount of food material. The 
process of steaming offers no danger from burning; and because 
no hard skin is formed, there is less waste. 
Serving: 

Scoop out the soft portion of each piece of steamed squash, 
mash with a fork, season with ^ tp sugar, a pinch of salt, and a 
dash of pepper. Add J tp butter. Serve on a small plate or 
vegetable dish. 

Treat the baked squash in the same way. 

Compare the two dishes in amount; in taste. 

Baked or steamed squash is a typical dinner dish. It is 
usually served from one large dish after having been removed 
from the rind and seasoned. 

Squash should be eaten with a fork. 
Table manners: 

Rule: The napkin should never be tucked in the collar. 
Setting the table: 

In setting the table for an informal or family dinner, the 
service plate may be omitted, all the knives and forks to be used 
may be put on the table, also salts and peppers near the comers of 
the table or one of each for every two persons. (See figure 23.) 



Digitized by 



Google 



VEGETABLES 39 

Small plates and bread and butter knives for the butter 
ball and bread or diAner roll, which should be put on before 
dinner is announced, are placed at the left just above the forks. 
Glasses should be filled with water just before announcing dinner. 

The soup may be served by the hostess from a large tureen 
instead of being brought in individual plates from the kitchen, 
in which case the tureen, covered, should be placed in front of 
the hostess and the soup plates at her left. 
What has been learned: 

1. Steaming is a better method of cooking than baking 
because: 

(a) It saves nutrient material. 

(6) It prevents the burning of food during cooking. 

Lesson XII 

Vegetables (Reading) 

Place of vegetables in the diet: 

Vegetables are very valuable in the diet because they furnish 
mineral salts, a great deal of energy-giving material, and a very 
pleasing flavor. Some vegetables, as peas, beans, and lentils, 
also furnish tissue-building material. 

Selection of vegetables: 

In choosing vegetables, be sure that they are fresh; for if 
wilted or very old, they are not economical and may even be 
unwholesome. Hot-bed or "forced," vegetables are never 
quite equal to those grown in season and besides are very 
expensive. It is always best to use medium-sized vegetables. 
The very large ones are usually so old and woody that they 
require more cooking and are not so nutritious; they may even 
become hollow in the center. 
Care of vegetables: 

Winter vegetables should be stored in a cool, dry place where 
they will not freeze or be in the light. Squash and pumpkins 



Digitized by 



Google 



40 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

are better if kept in a warm, dry place. They should be so 
placed that no two vegetables touch each other, or they will 
spoil quickly. They should be watched, and if spots begin to 
come on them, should be cooked at once. 
Rules for cooking vegetables: 

All green, above-ground vegetables, such as asparagus, should 
be cooked in boiling salted water, uncovered to retain their 
color. Peas and beans are an exception. They should not be 
salted till nearly tender, as salting hardens them. 

Underground vegetables should be cooked in boiling, salted 
water, covered. The water should be boiling when the vege- 
tables are put in. Cabbage and onions give oflF a less oflFensive 
odor, or at least the odor is less noticeable, if they are cooked 
uncovered. 

Vegetables should be cooked only till tender, the best methods 
to use being those that cause the least loss. Baking and steam- 
ing are probably the best. Some vegetables, such as dried 
beans, have a very strong flavor and need to be parboiled, that 
is, partly cooked, so that they may lose part of it before baking. 

Vegetables should always be cooked whole or in as large 
pieces as possible, as there is then less loss. If the water in 
which they are cooked is to be used or served with the vegetables, 
the pieces may be smaller than otherwise. As little water as 
possible should be used for cooking vegetables that can be 
stirred; others should have just enough water to cover them. 
Often the nutritive matter which dissolves from the vegetables 
may be saved by using the cooking water in soups or sauces. 
No definite time can be given for the cooking of vegetables, 
as that depends largely upon their age and size. 
Squash: 

Squash may be divided into two classes, the summer and the 
winter squash. Summer squash is known as crook-neck, and of 
this there are two varieties, the white and the yellow. 

The Hubbard squash is the best representative of the winter 
class of squash. 



Digitized by 



Google 



VEGETABLES 41 

A good squash will have a rind which cuts hard; when cooked, 
a squash should be dry and mealy. 
Sweet potato: ' 

In the southern states, where it is an important article of 
food, the sweet potato is extensively grown. It contains more 
dry matter than the Irish potato, the difference being due to 
the presence of more sugary substance; this is why the potato 
tastes so sweet. The sweet potato also contains more tissue- 
building material. 
Tomato: 

Like the potato, the tomato was unknown Until the dis- 
covery of America. At first it was called the "love apple," 
and was cultivated only for the beauty of its green foliage and of 
its fruit, which was thought to be poisonous. 
Onion: 

The onion has been in use since early times. It is said that 
the carvings on the pyramids of Egypt show that the onion 
and garlic were used by the workingmen of early times. The 
Spaniards and Italians of today are noted as garlic and onion- 
eating people. Garlic belongs to the onion family, but in 
appearance it is slightly different, being made up of small 
bulbs. Both of these vegetables are said to be good for the 
nerves. 
Uncooked vegetables: 

Many of the summer vegetables may be eaten uncooked. 
The common ones so used are celery, lettuce, tomatoes, cucum- 
bers, radishes, parsley, onions, and cabbage. They must be 
used when young and tender. They should be gathered at 
night or early in the morning before the sun has withered them 
^nd while the dew is still on them. They should be washed 
and put in a cool place; they may be wrapped in a cloth and 
placed near, but not directly on the ice. To freshen withered 
vegetables, let them soak in water, but no longer than is neces- 
sary. These vegetables may be used for garnishes, relishes 
or salads. 



Digitized by 



Google 



42 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



Directions for serving certain uncooked vegetables: 

1. Slice tomatoes thinly. 

2. Serve stalks of celery in a glass dish. 

3. Pare cucumbers and cut them in thin slices. 

4. Radishes are very pretty 

when served in the form of 
"radish roses." To make them, 
slit to within a short distance of 
the top. Place the radish in cold 
water and let it stand. The skins 
will turn back, making each 
slit look like a rose petal. 

5. Lettuce may be served with vinegar, sugar, pepper, and 
salt, with hot bacon drippings. It may be served with cream, 
as a salad. 

6. Cabbage may be shredded finely and served with cream, 
or with vinegar, pepper, and salt. 

7. Onions sliced and served either plain or with vinegar, 
salt, and pepper make a delicious relish. Very young onions 
are often served with salt alone. 




Fig. 27.— Sliced Tomatoes 




Fig. 28.— Making Radish Roses 



Digitized by 



Google 



SOUPS 



Lesson Xin 



Cream of Potato Soup 



Materials used: 

Class Rule 
1 potato 1 tb buttar 

1 c milk f tb flour 

i slice onion ^ tp salt 
f tp chopped parsley 
a very little celery salt and 

white pepper 
a few grains Cayenne pepper 
Utensils needed: 

For preparing the potato : 

Granite pan with cover 

paring knife 

bowl 

ca^ge knife 

teaspoon 
%, tin for parings 



Home Rule 
3 potatoes 3 tb butter 

1 qt milk 2 tb flour 

2 slices of onion li tp salt 
i tp celery salt 

I tp white pepper 

a few grains Cayenne pepper 

1 tp chopped parsley 





Fig. 30. — Improvised Double Boiler 

For making the soup: 
Fine-meshed sieve 
double boiler 
measuring cup 
case knife 
tablespoon 
teaspoon 
mixing cup 
bowl 



Fig. 29.— Double Boiler 



omelet pan 
43 



soup plate 



Digitized by 



Google 



44 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Work to be done: 

1. Prepare potato for boiling as directed in Lesson III, but 
slice in |-inch slices before placing in the boiling \^ater. 

2. Fill bottom part of double boiler two-thirds full of water 
and place on the stove. 

3. Place the milk and onion in the upper part of boiler, and 
set in the lower part. 

4. When the potato is done, drain carefully, shake gently, and 
let stand uncovered a minute or two over the fire. 

5. Force the potato through the sieve into the bowl. 

6. When bubbles appear on the surface of the milk 
along the sides of the pan, remove the onion and put in the 
potatoes. 

Make a binding as follows: 

1. Melt the butter carefully in the omelet pan. 

2. Add flour slowly and mix thoroughly. 

3. Add a tablespoon or two of the hot milk and mix. 

4. Add spices and salt and stir. 

5. Pour into the soup slowly, stirring all the time. 

6. Sprinkle the parsley on the soup after it has been poured 
into the hot soup plate for serving. 

Principles: 

As potatoes are heavier than milk, they will sink to the bottom 
unless something is added which will hold the two together. 
This is the purpose of the binding. 

The same principle was applied in making the cream sauces 
(Lessons VII and VIII) ; in fact, a cream soup is really a very 
thin white sauce. 

White pepper is less conspicuous than black pepper. 
Serving: 

Cream soups should be served in a soup plate. They 
are eaten with a soup spoon or other spoon larger than a 
teaspoon. 

The soup plate is set on the service plate, and when this course 
is finished, only the soup plate and spoon are removed. 



Digitized by 



Google 



SOUPS 



45 



Table manners: 

Rule: In taking up soup with the spoon j use a backward 
motion, that is, a motion away from you. 
Setting the table: 

Bonbons and relishes, 
such as radishes, olives, 
celery, or salted nuts, may 
be placed on the table at 
pleasure, although it is 
becoming usual to set these 
on a sideboard or table and 
pass to each guest. 

At a formal dinner it is 
not customary, to have but- 
ter or other seasoning on the 
table. The condiments, 
sauces, and seasonings are 
served with each course as 
they are needed. 
Cleaning up: 

1. Soak omelet pan in 
hot water and upper part of double boiler in cold water. 

2. Wash the dishes as before directed. 
What has been learned: 

1. A binding is a mixture of flour and butter added to a soup 
to thicken it. 

2. A cream soup is a thin white sauce. 
General suggestions for cream soups: 

Soups may be thickened with flour, cornstarch or rice flour, 
one tablespoonful for a quart of soup. Flour is the cheapest, 
but cornstarch gives a smoother soup. 

In vegetable soups or purees as soon as the hot butter and 
flour are blended the mixture may be stirred into the soup. The 
hot butter cooks the flour more thoroughly than it can be cooked 
any other way. 




Fig. 31. — Taking up Soup with Back- 
ward Motion of Spoon 



Digitized by 



Google 



46 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



Lesson XIV 



Split Pea, Lentil, or Bean Puree, with Croutons 



Home Rule 
1 pt dried legumes 
1 onion 

I head of celery 
3 tb flour 
salt and pepper 
3 tb butter 

I can strained tomato or 
1 c cream 




Fig. 32. — Extension Sieve 



Materials used: 
Class Rule 

J c dried legumes (peas, 
beans, or lentils) 

1 slice onion 

1 stalk celery 

f tb flour 

i c strained tomato or 
i c cream 

I tb butter 

salt and pepper 

1 small slice bread 

1 tp butter 

drippings 
Utensils needed: 

Double boiler 

saucepan 

measuring cup 

pur^ or extension sieve 
Work to be done: 
Pur6e: 

1. Soak the legumes over night in soft water. 

2. Drain and simmer (that is, cook slowly, but do not boil) in 
3 pt of soft water, stirring often with a wooden spoon. 

3. When the legume is becoming tender, cut the onion and the 
celery fine, and saut6 in a little dripping. (See Lesson VI.) 

4. Add this to the legume. When tender, press through the 
pur^e sieve. 

5. Heat again. 

6. Melt the butter and add the flour, mixing thoroughly. 

7. Add the tomato or cream, stirring constantly. 



case knife 
plate 

wooden spoon 
omelet pan 



baking tin 
soup plate 
soup spoon 



Digitized by 



Google 



SOUPS 47 

8. Pour this into the soup, being careful not to allow it to 
become lumpy. 

9. Add seasoning. 
Croutons: 

1. Spread the bread with butter and cut into |-inch 
cubes. 

2. Place in the baking tin and bake in a slow oven till nicely 
browned. 

Principles: 

On account of the evaporation of water, legumes become very 
hard when they are dried. They therefore require long, slow 
cooking in order that they may become soft and digestible. 
Salt should not be added until the pur^ is ready, as its addition 
during the process tends to harden the tissue of the legume. 

Hard water contains lime salts, which have a tendency to 
harden the tissue-building material of the legume. If hard 
water be used, a little soda added will help to soften it. 
Serving: 

Place the croutons on the soup plate, dip the purfe, and 
pour it over them. 

Some hostesses pass croutons to the guests, who help them- 
selves. When so served, the croutons should be placed in a 
rather deep dish with a large spoon for dipping. 

Purees are luncheon dishes. 
Table manners: 

Rule: Soups should be eaten with no noise of the lips. 
Setting the table and serving guests: 

There are two ways of serving a formal dinner, both equally 
"good form.'* The one chosen will depend upon the conven- 
ience and taste of the hostess. 
The more formal way: 

Arrange each course in the pantry on individual plates. 

Take the tray in the left hand, put the plate containing the 
individual portion upon it. 

Take it to the right side of each guest. 



Digitized by 



Google 



48 



DOMESTIC SCIEN'CE 



With the right hand place it upon the service plate until 
after that plate is removed, which may be after the soup course 
or not until the meat course is finished, then set it in front of 
each guest and close to the edge of the table. 

If any separate dish is to be served with a course, it should 
be placed on a tray and passed to the left side of each guest, 
being held low enough to enable the guest to help himself with 
his right hand. 

The more fashionable way is to leave the service plate on the 
table until dessert. In this case, the tray is not used in placing 
the course. 
What has been learned: 

Legumes require long, slow cooking. 

Cooking in hard water hardens legumes. 

Soda added to hard water will help to soften legumes. 

Lesson XV 



Cream of Tomato Soup 



Materials used: 
Class Rule 
i c strained i tp salt 

tomato 
i c milk 
I tb flour 
J tb butter 
iV tp soda 
I slice onion 
Utensils needed: 
Double boiler 



1^ tp pepper 
J tp sugar 
2 soda 

crackers 
small piece of 

cheese 



saucepan 
white cup 
measuring cup 
pur^e sieve 



Home Rule 



2 c strained 

tomato 
2 c milV 
2 tb flour 
2 tb butter 



J tp soda 
1 slice onion 
1 tp salt 
i tp pepper 
1 tp sugar 




Fig. 33.— Grater 



case knife 
tablespoon 
teaspoon 
grater 
baking pan 



Digitized by 



Google 



SOUPS 49 

Work to be done: 

1. Put the milk into the double boiler and set it on to heat. 

2. Put the onion into the milk. 

3. While the milk is heating, slice or cut up the tomato and 
cook it in the saucepan with the sugar till it is soft. Add only- 
enough water to keep it from burning. 

4. Put a Uttle cold water with the flour and stir; then add a 
httle more and stir till a thin, smooth paste is formed. 

5. When the tomato is soft, add the soda, then put it through 
the sieve. 

6. When the milk is hot enough, that is, when bubbles appear 
on the surface, add the flour paste to it slowly, stirring all the 
time so that the mixture does not becpme lumpy. 

7. Add the strained tomato, salt, pepper, and butter. 

8. Strain the soup and it is ready to serve. 

9. While the soup is being made, lay the crackers in the baking 
pan, grate the cheese and sprinkle over them, set in the oven 
and heat till the cheese melts. 

Principles: 

In the lesson on stufifed tomatoes, it was stated that toma- 
toes contain an acid. When this acid comes in contact with 
milk, the latter curdles, or becomes lumpy like sour milk. If 
soda is added to the tomato, it takes away the effect of (neu- 
tralizes) the acid, and the milk does not curdle. 
Serving: 

This soup makes a good luncheon dish. It should be served 
like the cream of potato soup. The crackers should be served 
on a small plate or laid at the left on the plate on which the soup 
plate is served. 
Table manners: 

Rule: When one is a guest at a single meal at a house j the 
napkin should not be folded again, but laid loosely at the left side 
of the dessert dish. 

To crumple a napkin or muss it, save as in ordinary usage, 
is in bad taste. 



Digitized by 



Google 



50 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Setting the table and serving guests: 

The second method of serving a formal dinner follows: 
The more simple way (Russian style): 

Have the course cut in suitable pieces on a large dish or 
platter, with the necessary serving spoon, knife, or fork. 

Put the platter on a tray or, if too large, carry in the hands 
with a folded napkin between the dish and the hand. 

Serve at the left of each guest. 

Wait until all have finished before removing a course. 

Take the tray in the left hand, pass to the right of each 
guest and remove each plate with the right hand, placing it on 
the tray. 

Remove one plate at a time, or all belonging to the course at 
each cover. 

It is allowable to dispense with the tray, if pressed for time, 
and to take a plate in each hand, thus removing two plates 
at a time. 
Cleaning up: 

Soak the cup in which the flour paste was made in cold water; 
this makes the washing of the dishes much more simple. As 
soon as the tomato has been put through the sieve, empty the 
seeds and all else that does not pass through the sieve into the 
garbage pail. Wash the dishes in the usual way. 
What has been learned: 

1. Tomatoes cause milk to curdle. 

2. Soda coimteracts the acid of the tomatoes. 

3. A cream soup is the pulp of a vegetable strained through a 
sieve and thinned with milk, cream, or some liquid, with a 
binding of flour or cornstarch added to hold the ingredients 
together. 

4. A pur6e is a thick cream soup. 

5. When vegetables are so old and tough that they cannot be 
served whole, they may be used in soups or purees as the method 
of straining removes the tough and indigestible material. 



Digitized by 



Google 



SOUPS, 51 

Additional Recipes for Soups 

Cream of Pea Soup 
Home Rule 
1 can or 1 pt of peas 1 pt milk 2 tb butter 

1 tp sugar 1 slice onion 1 tp salt 

1 pt cold water 2 tb flour ^ tp pepper 

Boil the peas in water till tender if fresh peas are us^; force them 
through a strainer and add pulp to the milk thickened with the flour 
which has been stirred into the melted butter. 

Cream of Celery Soup 

Class Rule Home Rule 

i c celery 3 c celery 

i c boiling water 1 pt boiling water 

i tp butter 1 pt milk 

i tp flour 1 slice onion 

i c milk or i c milk and i c cream 2 tb flour 

salt and pepper | tp salt 

2 tb butter 

Wash and scrape the celery before cutting it into slices. Cook in boiling 
water till tender, then strain through a sieve, being careful to strain out 
all the pulp. Scald the milk, to which the onion has been added. When 
the milk is scalded, remove the onion and add the milk to the celery water. 
Bind with the butter and flour rubbed together. 

Puree of Lima Beans 
One pint of Lima beans; if dry, soak over night in cold water; boil in 
water or the thin part of a can of tomatoes (using the thick part for scal- 
loped tomatoes), until they are soft. If the water reduces very much, 
add a little milk or water. Sift very closely and add salt, pepper, and 
cayenne to taste; if you like, add a little onion juice, mace, or any other 
seasoning. To keep the thick part from separating, add one scant table- 
spoon of flour cooked in one tablespoon of butter. Let the butter stand 
in a warm place imtil it is melted, then rub the butter and flour together 
^mtil perfectly smooth, pour in one cup of boiling soup, and stir hard; 
then stir into the remainder of the soup. Slice three small tomatoes 
very thin, put them into the soup, and it will be ready to serve as soon as 
it boils. Use just enough water when first boiling the beans to keep them 
from sticking to the bottom of the kettle. 



Digitized by 



Google 



STARCH 
Lesson XVI 

Experiments 
Materials used: 

1 tb sugar 2 tb cornstarch water 
Utensils needed: 

Microscope (if possible) , teaspoon 

slides with various starch grains cup 

2 tumblers tablespoon 
Work to be done: 

Experiment 1: 

1. Fill each tumbler two-thirds full of water. 

2. In one, place 1 tb sugar. 

3. Mix 1 tb cornstarch with enough cold water to make a 
paste, dilute it a little, and put it into the second tumbler of water. 

4. Stir the contents of each tumbler. 

5. Let it stand a few minutes. 

What has become of the sugar? of the starch? 
. What then is one difference between sugar and starch? 
Experiment 2: 

1. Place 1 tb dry starch in the cup. 

2. Pour over it 2 tb boiling water. Do not stir it. What has 
happened? 

3. Break open one of the lumps. How does it appear on the 
inside? What is the effect of hot water upon starch? Look 
at the various slides through the microscope. 

Principles: 

In appearance starch is a fine white powder. The grains of 
this powder differ in different plants. For example, potato 
starch grains are oyster-shaped and have peculiar markings, 

52 



Digitized by 



Google 



STARCH 



63 



somewhat like the markings on an oyster or clam shell. They 
are also much larger than the starch grains of rice or of tapioca. 

The great difference between starch and sugar is that the 
latter is soluble in cold water and the former is not. 

When hot water is poured upon dry starch, the grains first 
touched by it swell, forming a jelly-like mass around the other 
grains not immediately touched by the hot water. The reason, 
then, why flour must be mixed either with cold water or other 
liquid, or with butter or other fat, in making white sauces and 
soups, is that each little grain must lie separate or apart from 
the others so that each may be reached by the hot Uquid at 
once, thus causing them all to swell at the same moment so 
that there will be no lumps formed. 
Cleaning up: 

Soak all the sticky dishes in cold water. 
What has been learned: 

1. Starch grains are a fine white powder. 

2. They vary in size, shape, and markings in different plants. 

3. Sugar is soluble in cold water; starch is not. 

4. Hot liquids swell the starch grains they first touch, thus 
forming balls, or lumps. 

5. Soups and purees are so nutritious that with bread and 
butter they may form a complete luncheon. 

Lesson XVII 



Materials used: 
4 c milk 
1 tb sugar 



Cornstarch Mold 



1 tb cornstarch 



i tp salt 
J tp vanilla or other flavoring 



Utensils needed: 
Double boiler 
measuring cup 



wooden spoon 
cup for mixing 
cup or other mold 



3 tb cream 
1 tp sugar 



tablespoon 
teaspoon 



Digitized by 



Google 



54 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Work to be done: 

1. Place the milk in a double boiler and heat it. 

2. Mix sugar, starch, and salt. 

3. Add this mixture very gradually to the hot milk, stirring 
constantly. 

4. Cook until thick. 

5. Dip the mold in cold water. 

6. Pour the cooked mixture into the mold and set aside to 
cool. 

Principles: 

Another method of separating the starch grains before adding 
them to the hot liquid is to mix them with grains of salt and 
sugar. The little grains of salt and sugar separate the grains 
of starch sufficiently, especially if they are added slowly to the 
hot liquid. Then if the liquid is stirred while the sugar and 
starch mixture is added and until the mixture boils, there will 
be no danger of lumping. 
Serving: 

When the mold is cold, it should be turned into an individual 
glass dish and put on a small plate on which a fancy paper doily 
has been placed. 

Add 1 tp of sugar and the vanilla to the cream and turn over 
the mold. 

This makes a light, tasty dessert for either limcheon or dinner. 
Table manners: 

Rule: Never put the elbows on the table. 
Setting the table and serving guests: 

The English mode of serving is to set the whole of each course, 
often containing many dishes, at once upon the table, the hostess 
serving the soup, salad, and dessert, and the host carving and 
serving the fish and roast. This is the style usually seen every 
day at English, French, and American tables, where but one or 
two, or perhaps no maids are employed. 

By a compromise plan, or style, such dishes as the salad or 
dessert, which present an attractive appearance and can be 



Digitized by 



Google 



STARCH 65 

served quickly and without much eflfort, are served by the 
hostess, and a fish, for instance, which is easily separated into 
individual portions, is served by the host on the plates set before 
him. The other dishes are served from the pantry. 
Cleaning up: 

1. Soak the double boiler in cold water. 

2. Gather all dishes together and pile each kind by itself. 

3. Wash glassware first, being careful to put glass into warm 
water edgewise that it may be evenly heated so that it will not 
break. 

4. Wash silver, china, porcelain, and kitchen utensils. 

5. Wash and wipe stove and desk or table. 

6. Wash and rinse towel and cloth. 
What has been learned: 

1. Sugar and salt mixed with starch will separate starch 
grains just as well as will melted butter or cold liquid. 

2. Starch swells, thereby stiffening the mixture so that when 
cold it will be quite firm. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CEREALS 

Lesson XVni 

The Fireless Cooker (Reading) 

Some twenty years ago a Mr. Atkinson invented the Aladdin 
oven, a double-walled box with the space between the walls 
filled with a non-conducting substance (that Js, a substance 
which will hold, not throw oflf heat). By means of this oven a 
dinner can be cooked with the heat of an ordinary kerosene lamp. 

Soon after the invention of this oven, some poor people in 
Europe discoveredl that they could partially cook their food 
without a fire. They first cooked the food in the ordinary 
way about one-third the time required, and then put the kettle 
containing it into a closed box packed with hay. When 
opened some hours later, the food was found to be perfectly 
cooked. 

Although the fireless cooker is looked upon generally as a new 
discovery, it is in reality a modern type of this hay box and 
of the old-time brick oven — Dutch oven — an oven variously 
termed, but always used in one way. The old time oven was 
a companion to the "tallow dip," and the receptacle for the 
carrying of borrowed fire. It was old before George Washing- 
ton's shoe buckles were new and before Boston held her first 
tea party. 

Instead of heating the foods to the active cooking point, 
our grandmothers heated the oven to the cooking point and 
placed the foods within it. In both cases the principle is the 
same — the retention of heat. 

Throughout old Mexico and among the Mexicans and Indians 
of the southwestern states, the fireless oven is still used exten- 
sively. Outside each adobe dwelling, is always an adobe struc- 

56 



Digitized by 



Google 




CEREALS 57 

ture about four feet high and shaped like an old-fashioned 
beehive. It has an opening at one side and a smaller one near 
the top. The first is for the building of the pre-baking fire, 
its removal and to receive the food. The upper opening, 
which is for the escape of the smoke, is plugged up after the fire 
is removed. 

The first step in the development of the fireless cooker was to 
give permanent form to the "box," and use other means than 
hay of retaining the heat. These first 
fireless cookers could neither bake nor 
roast, but were a great saver of time, 
energy, and fuel in boiling and stewing. 

The latest step in the direction of 
fireless cooking has given us the cooker 
in which any kind of food may be 
placed raw and come out cooked to Fig. 34.— Fireless Cooker 
perfection without having received' any attention other than 
is required to prepare it in the raw state as for ordinary 
cooking, and heating the radiators, which are the source of 
heat in the cooker. These radiators are heated like ordinary 
flatirons in 15 or 20 minutes, are then put in place, the food 
placed in the accompanying utensils and covered, and the 
radiators do the rest. The roast is browned as when cooked 
in the ordinary oven. 

Meats, poultry, game, fish, bread, cake, pie, vegetables, soup, 
cereals, in fact, all foods can be cooked in about the same time 
as required ordinarily and without reheating the radiators. 

Food, when done, need not be removed from the cooker, but 
may be left until convenient, for it is claimed that overcooking 
and burning are impossible. 

The advantages claimed for the best fireless cookers are that 
they save at least 75 per cent in fuel alone and a wonderful 
amount of time, labor, and discomfort. All the nutriment and 
delicious flavors of foods are preserved and the toughest cuts 
of meat are made tender and palatable. 



Digitized by 



Google 



58 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Lesson XIX 

Corn Meal Mush 

Materials used: 

I c milk 2 tb com meal i c boiling water | tp salt 
Utensils needed: 

Double boiler measuring cup 

wooden spoon teaspoon 

tablespoon 
Work to be done: 

1. Fill lower part of double boiler two-thirds full of water and 
place on fire. 

2. Pour milk and i c boiling water into the upper part of 
double boiler. Set into the lower part and add salt. 

3. When hot, add the com meal slowly, stirring all the time, 

4. Cook it three to six hours. 

Fried Corn Meal Mush with Caramel Sauce 

Materials used: 

1 slice cold pressed com meal mush 2 tb sugar 

J tp cottolene ■ ■■■^^^^^^ ^ ^^ water 

1 tp butter ( n!iF:.niil''^^^'^^:pi:Fli WBMMI 

Utensils needed: i- ok a ^ i 

Fig. 35.— Spatula , .^ 

2 omelet pans case knife 

spatula teaspoon plate 

wooden spoon tablespoon bowl 

Work to be done: 

1. Put the cottolene and butter into one of the omelet pans, 
place on fire, and heat. 

2. When hot, add the slice of com meal mush. 

3. Brown the mush on one side and then on the other. 

4. Heat the bowl and plate by dipping into hot water. Wipe 
dry. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CEREALS 



59 



5. Place the browned mush on the plate and cover with bowl 
so that it will keep hot. 

6. Put the sugar into the second omelet pan and place on a 
gentle fire. 

7. Stir it constantly to keep it from burning. 

8. Keep it on the fire till the sugar is a delicate brown, then 
add the water and cook about two minutes. 

9. Pour over the mush and serve. 
Principles: 

Com meal, like potatoes, is a very starchy food; but, unlike 
the potato, it has but very little water, and thus can never be 
cooked by dry heat, as can 
potatoes, apples, and other 
foods that contain much 
water. For this reason a 
great deal of water must 
be added to the meal before 
it is cooked. Then the heat 
and the water combined 
cause the grains to swell so 
that when done they occupy 
many times the space they 
did when first put into the 
double boiler. Because 
the corn meal is so dry, 
it takes a long time for the starch to absorb enough of the hot 
water to swell and burst the surrounding wall of cellulose. 
This also holds true with all the other cereal foods, as oatmeal, 
rice, cream of wheat, and other preparations. They should 
always be cooked a long time; for the longer they are cooked 
the more perfectly is the cellulose broken down and the more 
perfectly can the body utilize the food. 
Serving: 

Plain com meal mush is served with milk or cream for a 
breakfast food, like any cereal. 




Fig. 36. — Improper Positions at Table 



Digitized by 



Google 



60 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Fried mush is served for breakfast or family luncheon. It is 
served from a platter placed on the table and is eaten with a fork. 
Most people like a syrup served with it. 
Table manners: 

Rule: Sit comfortably erect at the table and keep both feet 
on the floor. 

Some of the improper positions taken by people at the table 
are illustrated in Fig. 36. All of these should be avoided and 
a dignified, erect posture should be assumed. 
Serving guests: 

When the dinner is served from the pantry, the guests should 
be served in rotation alternately at the right and left of the 

hostess, going in opposite direc- 
tions for each successive course. 
Begin with No. 1 and serve suc- 
cessively to No. 8 for first course. 
Begin with No, 8 for second course 
and serve successively to No. 1. 
Fig. 37.- Order of Serving Continue to alternate in the serv- 

ing of the courses. Serve the host and hostess last. 
What has been learned: 

1. All cereals are starchy foods. 

2. All cereals contain but very little water, hence they can 
never be cooked by dry heat. 

3. Because they are so dry, cereals require much longer cook- 
ing than do watery foods. 

4. The longer cereals are cooked, the more perfectly they can 
be digested. 

Note to Teachers: As it is impossible to finish the cooking of the 
mush in one lesson, two lessons have been inserted and the teacher may use 
either. Pupils may begin the cooking of the mush and at the end of the 
lesson all of it may be placed in one large double boiler and finished by the 
teacher. The class may saute the mush at the next lesson period. Or, 
the teacher may prepare the mush beforehand and the class simply saute it. 



8 7 


6 


5 


Hostess 




Host 


1 2 


3 


4 



Digitized by 



Google 



CEREALS 61 



Lesson XX 




Steamed Rice with Dates 




Materials used: 




Class Rule Home Rule 


3 tb water 2 tp sugar 3 c water 


1 c rice 


^ tp salt § c cream 1 tp salt 


§ lb dates 


1 tb rice 5 dates 




Utensils needed: 




Large bowl paring-knife 


small bowl 


double boiler spoon 


pan 


strainer measuring cup 


cereal dish 


saucepan Dover egg beater 





Work to be done: 

1. Put some water in the saucepan and bring it to a boil. 

2. Measure 1 tb rice. Place the strainer in the large bowl, 
pour the rice into it, and add cold water enough to wash the rice. 

3. Take the rice, after it has been washed, out of the bowl. 
(In this way not a kernel of rice is lost.) 

4. When the water in the saucepan boils, pour 3 tb of it into 
the upper part of the double boiler. Add the salt and then the 
washed rice, stirring while adding. 

5. Put water into the lower part of the double boiler, put the 
parts of the boiler together, and set the boiler over the fire. 

6. Cook at least 40 minutes without stirring. Then uncover 
. and let dry and cool. 

7. With the paring-knife, cut a slit down the side of the dates 
and remove the stones. 

8. Put the dates in the saucepan, add a very little water, and 
cook them till they are soft. 

9. Put the cream in the small bowl and beat with the egg- 
beater until it is stiff. 

10. Add the sugar to the cream and beat until the sugar is 
dissolved. 



Digitized by 



Google 



62 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Principles: 

Rice, which is a cereal very rich in starchy material, swells a 
great deal when cooked in water, so only a little of the raw 
material need be use,d. Dates, like all fruits, are also rich in 
heat and energy-giving matter, and they add to the attractive- 
ness of a cereal dish because of their rich flavor. The cream, 
because it is rich in fat, is also a heat and energy food, so the 
combination of the three makes a very hearty dish. This 
should not, therefore, be served at a heavy meal. 
Serving: 

Put the softened dates in the center of a small individual 
plate. Place the rice around the dates and pour the sweetened 
whipped cream either over the whole or only around the outside. 
Eat with a fork. 

This dish is most suitable as a dessert for a light dinner, or, 
better still, at a luncheon where pea or bean pur^e is served as the 
main part of the meal. Since the rice dish is so very rich in 
starchy, or heat and energy-giving material, and the pur^e in 
tissue-building material, the combination is very good. 
Table manners: 

Rule: Sit near enough to the table to maintain an easily erect 
position while eating. 
Serving guests: 

When guests are served by passing the courses for guests to 
help themselves, a style becoming very popular, it is good form 
to pass the dish to the hostess first, in order that if there be 
any peculiarity or novelty about the dish, the guests may be 
saved possible embarrassment by seeing how they are expected 
to take the food from the dish. 
Cleaning up: 

1. Rinse all sticky, greasy dishes with hot water. 

2. Rinse starchy dishes with cold water. 

3. Rinse egg beater as soon as used. 

4. Soak all cooking dishes well and be sure all are scoured, if 
necessary. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CEREALS 63 

What has been learned: 

1. Cereals may be served with fruit. 

2. A cereal and fruit dish is rich in heat and energy-giving 
material. 

3. Cream adds to this heat and energy-producing value. 

Lesson XXI 

Turkish Pilap 

Materials used: 

Class Rule Home Rule 

I c rice i c rice 

i tb butter 1 tb butter 

I c water 1 c water 

i c tomatoes (1 tomato) | c tomatoes 

salt and pepper salt and pepper 

Utensils needed: 

Large bowl omelet pan paring knife 

small bowl saucepan spoons 

strainer measuring cup 

Work to be done: 

1. Wash the rice as directed in the preceding lesson. 

2. Brown the rice in the butter in the omelet pan. 

3. Boil the water. 

4. Add the boiling water to the rice and cook till the water is 
all cooked away. 

5. Remove skins from the tomato as directed in Lesson X. 

6. Cut the tomato in pieces and cook in saucepan till tender. 

7. Add this stewed tomato to the rice. Mix well. 

8. Add the salt and pepper. 

9. Cook till the rice is soft. 
Principles: 

Since rice and tomatoes are both foods which produce heat 
and energy, they are best combined with foods having other 
value, as purtes, meat, and fish. The vegetable added to the 



Digitized by 



Google 



64 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

rice, while it does not balance the rice, gives it an added value 
because of the pleasing combination of flavors. The browning 
of the rice in the fat changes the color and flavor. 
Serving: 

This dish may be served at dinner as an entree (side dish) 
or at luncheon as the main dish. 

When served at a formal dinner and served from the pantry, 
it may be placed on the dinner plate with the meat. 
Table manners: 

Rule : Hold the arms close to the sides while eating. 

A proper regard for the rights of others is at the basis of this 
rule. Thrusting out the elbows when cutting meat makes one 
likely to interfere with his neighbor, besides giving one a very 
awkward appearance. 
Suggestions on Serving: 

Meats and vegetables should never be served in glass. 

Dishes should be appropriate in size and shape to the food 
served. 
Cleaning up: 

Keep the tomato away from tin utensils. 

Soak all sticky dishes. 
What has been learned: 

Rice can be combined with some vegetables to good advantage. 

Browning rice in fat changes the flavor. . 

Additional Recipes 
Boiled Rice 

Class Rule Home Rule 

A c rice i qt water A tp salt 3 c water 1 c rice 1 tp salt 

Wash rice and add slowly to the boiling salted water. Boil till soft, 
drain in a coarse strainer, and pour over it 1 qt of hot water; return to the 
cooking kettle and let dry. Serve with fresh fruit or jelly. 

Rice with Cheese 
Butter a baking dish and in the bottom put a one-inch layer of cold 
boiled rice. Cover well with white sauce, and over this put a layer of 
grated cheese. Add more rice, more white sauce, and more cheese on top. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CEREALS 65 

Over this sprinkle seasoned bread crumbs and bake 15 or 20 minutes in a 
moderate oven. Serve hot from the dish in which it is baked. Rice with 
cheese may be baked and served in individual escallop shells or ramekins. 
(Shepperd.) 

Lesson XXn 

Oatmeal Mush with Apples 

Materials used: 

I c sugar 3 tb cream 1 apple 1| c water oatmeal mush 
To THE Teacher: As the pupils cannot complete the cooking of the 

oatmeal mush in one period/ it would be well to prepare this beforehand. 

Utensils needed: 

Apple corer granite pan wooden spoon 

paring knife case knife skimmer 

measuring cup 

Work to be done: 

1. Place the sugar and water in the pan, stir with wooden 
spoon until the sugar is dissolved, and let boil. 

2. Core the apple as directed in Lesson II. 

3. Pare the apple, taking ofif the parings around the apple. 

4. Cook the apple in the syrup imtil soft. Do not allow the 
syrup to boil too hard or the apple may break. 

5. When done, remove with a skimmer and place on cereal dish. 

6. Fill the apple with hot oatmeal mush. 
Principle : 

Oatmeal (or more properly, rolled oats) mush, like rice and 
commeal, requires long, slow cooking. Nothing can equal the 
fireless cooker for this purpose. This mush is very nutritious 
when properly cooked, and is also easily digested. It makes a 
fine breakfast food for cold weather because it furnishes heat 
and energy to the body. 
Serving: 

Serve the apple and mush with cream. Some serve with 
sugar also, but those who understand food values think the 
cream sufficient. 



Digitized by 



Google 



66 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Table manners: 

Rule: Pvi only small portions of food into the mouth' at one 
time. 
Suggestions on serving: 

Hot food should be served in heated dishes; never serve 
anjrthing luke-warm. 

Food should never be heaped or piled on a dish. Daintiness 
should characterize all serving. 
Cleaning up: 

1. Pour all remaining syrup into a fruit jar and cover. Set 
away in the pantry. 

2. Wash all the dishes as directed. 
What has been learned: 

1. Oatmeal (rolled oats) requires long, slow cooking. 

2. Oatmeal mush is a very nutritious food. 

3. It is an especially good food to i3erve in cold weather. 

Lesson XXm 

Cereals (Reading) 

The Greeks named the grains cereals from the goddess Ceres, 
whose especial charge was supposed to be taking care of the 
fruits of the field. Roman and Greek mjrthology has many 
beautiful legends exploiting the wonderful deeds of this favorite 
goddess. 

Cereals are the seeds of grasses. The most common ones are 
wheat, rice, oats, corn, barley, and rye. Cereals are extensively 
cultivated in every part of the world except the Polar regions. 
The reasons for their extensive use is due to the fact that they 
are so cheaply and easily grown; they contain good proportions 
of necessary food principles with but little refuse; they are 
easily prepared for the table and are both palatable and digest- 
ible; they are easily preserved on accoimt of their dryness and 
of their compactness of form. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CEREALS 67 

Men very early discovered how to make flour out of kernels of 
grain and to use it as food. The first method of grinding the 
flour by means of a pestle and mortar was very crude. Those 
who have visited a flour mill know how very complicated the 
milling process of today is, yet the rude implements of ancient 
times were the first step towards this end. 
Com: 

Formerly the word "com" was applied to any grain. In 
Scotland it meant oats; in England, wheat. In this coimtry 
the only grain to which the name is given is the Indian com, 
or maize. How it became known to the early American colo- 
nists can be learned from history, which tells how the Pilgrims 
were taught by the Indian Squanto to plant the com with a 
fish in each hill as fertilizer. 

There are many varieties of com: flint, having a broad 
kernel; dent, with a small dimple, or wrinkle across each kernel; 
sweet, the variety used for cooking purposes; popcorn. 

Besides its use directly as a food, corn has a great many uses, 
the most important of which are: (1) the manufacture of 
glucose, a substance used in commercial candy-making and also 
for the ginn on the back of postage stamps; (2) the manufac- 
ture of cornstarch. 
Rice: 

Rice is one of the oldest grains, for it was raised in India in 
ancient times, and a thousand years before Christ was bom 
it formed the chief food of the Chinese. About the time that 
Columbus discovered America, the people along the coast of 
Europe began to raise rice, and about two hundred years later, 
someone brought some rice to our country. In a very short 
time the production of rice became very profitable to the 
people who had low, swampy land, such as is found in Georgia, 
South Carolina, Mississippi, Alabama, and Texas. 
Wheat: 

Wheat, because it is so commonly used in bread-makmg and 
as a cereal in all parts of the world, is sometimes called the 



Digitized by 



Google 



68 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

"King of Cereals/' Wheat was first grown in Asia Minor or 
in Egypt, and it was not until Europeans came to this country 
that it was brought here. 

Among all the cereals wheat is the most perfect food for man. 

The outer layer of a wheat kernel is hard and useless as food 
for human beings, but the next layer is rich in tissue-building 
material, and the central part is starchy; there is oil, or fat, in 
the tiny germ, but the amount is very small. The whole grain 
of wheat, after the outside layer has been removed, is made into 
rolled wheat, puffed wheat, and so forth. Cracked wheat is 
made by breaking the kernel into pieces; cream of wheat or 
farina, by grinding the inner part of the kernel into a meal. 
Macaroni Wheat: 

Macaroni, the manufactured product of macaroni wheat flour, 
has long been the favorite dish of the Italians, who eat it simply 
boiled tender or with a white cheese grated over it. They also 
eat it with a tomato sauce, but do not cut it up as we do. It is 
said that an Italian gentleman or lady can eat macaroni quite 
daintily and still in the true Italian style, which means that an 
imbroken stream of the soft, tubular substance passes from the 
plate to the mouth. They are as skillful at this queer process 
as the Chinese are in using chop-sticks. Whenever Campanini, 
the distinguished baritone, comes to America to sing, he insists 
on having his macaroni cooked Italian fashion and on eating 
it Italian fashion, even though he may be in the midst of an 
astonished crowd in a hotel or caf6. 

The best macaroni still comes from Italy, though it is now 
manufactured to some extent in the United States. It is made 
from wheat flour, which is placed in a large vat and mixed with 
water, first by hand, then by means of a large marble wheel 
placed above the vat in an upright position. After being 
churned and mixed in this violent manner for a half hour, it 
is quite stiff, and when removed, is cut into cakes a foot square 
and about three inches thick. These are folded into a large 
steel cylinder which has a bottom perforated with openings that 



Digitized by 



Google 



CEREALS 69 

have their centers filled, and also a cover fitted with a screw. 
The cover is forced downward by machinery which presses the 
paste out through the holes at the bottom in the shape of long, 
slender tubes. These are cut into lengths of three feet and dried 
over frames covered with oiled paper. The drying process is 
continued for five days, when the macaroni is ready to be put 
up in boxes for the market. 

The manufacture of vermicelli is similar to that of macaroni, 
but vermicelli sticks are smaller and not hollow. This is due to 
the fact that the openings in the cylinder are smaller and have 
no closed centers. Both macaroni and vermicelli are colored 
with saffron. 

Spaghetti is another form of paste similar in manufacture 
and use to macaroni, except that it is made into smaller 
tubes. 
Oats: 

Oats are supposed to have been first cultivated by the people 
of northern and central Europe, but not until after wheat had 
become well known. Oats can be raised in a colder climate than 
wheat, and so are used more in cold countries. Oats, when 
eaten by man, are usually in the form of oatmeal and rolled 
oats. Since oats contain a great deal of starch and also some 
fat, they are valuable as a heat-giving food. They contain a 
considerable amount of tissue-building material. They have 
much mineral matter; hence they are a very good food for 
children, as they aid especially in the building of bony tissue. 
The people of Scotland use oats in making a kind of bread which 
is very nutritious, and they are as fond of oatmeal porridge as 
the Irish are of potatoes. 

It was a Scotchman, who, while talking to an American spoke 
of the fact that in his country the people used oats as food. The 
American replied that in his country oats were fed to the horses; 
whereupon the Scotchman retorted that this accounted for the 
fact that America had such good horses and Scotland such 
good men. 



Digitized by 



Google 



70 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Rye: 

Rye is a hardy cereal which can be made to grow on poor soil 
and in a cold climate, though it grows best in a climate suitable 
for wheat-growing. Rye, whenNised by man for food, is ground 
into flour which is made into bread. The poor people of 
Austria, Germany, and Russia use a great deal of this bread. 
For people taking but little exercise, rye bread is very beneficial. 
Barley: 

Barley is supposed to have been the first grain cultivated by 
man. It is still used as food by some of the European peoples, 
but in America it is seldom thus used except in soups or in the 
making of barley water for invahds and infants. 
Sago: 

Sago is obtained from the pith of a certain palm grown for 
commercial purposes in southeastern Asia, and the neighboring 
islands. So large is the pith of the sago palm and so full of 
starch and other nutritious material that three palms are said 
to yield as much food as an acre of wheat and a great deal 
more than an acre of potatoes. But, instead of one year, 
seven are required for the crop to mature. When the palm is 
seven years old it is cut down, the trunk split, and the pith 
removed and ground to a powder. The starch and other food 
materials are separated from the coarse fibre by mixing the 
ground pith with water and running it over sieves. The starch 
goes into the water, which is then allowed to stand, when a 
fine meal will sink to the bottom. Finally, this meal is dried 
and roasted and made into the pearl sago of commerce. 
Tapioca: 

Tapioca is made from the roots of a tree which grows in South 
America, the West Indies, and in parts of Africa and Asia. It 
is also grown to some extent in Florida and along the Gulf of 
Mexico. The bitter roots of the tree are washed and ground 
to a pulp, which is so strained that the starch is all extracted. 
This starch settles and hardens. It is then broken fine and 
packed for shipment. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CEREALS 



71 



Lesson XXIV 



Sago Pudding 




Materials used: 






Class Rule 


Home Rule 


2 tb sago i c sugar 
f c milk pinch of salt 
§ egg a little vanilla 
Utensils needed: 


i c sago 

2 c scalded milk 

2 eggs 


i c sugar 
. i tp salt 
1 tp vanilla 


Measuring cup 

double boiler , 


■ -'-^ 


bowl 
knife 


egg beater ■^^■B 
teaspoon ^^^ 33 
strainer 


-Wire Whisk 


pan 

large plate 
wire whisk 


Work to be done: 







1. Pick over sago carefully, wash, and drain. 

2. Scald themilkinthedoubleboiler,that is, just bringtoa boil. 

3. Cook the sago in the milk until it is transparent. 

4. While this is cooking, test the egg to see if it is fresh: 



Fresh egg 
Shell rough and dull-looking 
Sinks in cold water 
Rests on its side in water 
5. Wash the egg well and wipe it. 



Stale egg 
Shell smooth and shiny 
Floats in cold water 
Rests on end in water 




Fig. 39 — Cracking Fig. 40 — Forcing Egg Fig. 41 — Separating 
Egg Apart White from Yolk 

6. Break the egg by holding it in the left hand and striking 
it sharply in the middle with a knife. 



Digitized by 



Google 



72 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

7. Hold the egg over a deep plate, place the thumbs at the 
crack and force the shell apart. Hold the egg in such a position 
that the yolk will remain in one-half of the shell. 

8. Slip the yolk from one-half of the shell to the other, letting 
the white go over the edge into the plate. 

(Be sure to separate all the white from the yolk.) 

9. Slip the yolk into a bowl and beat with Dover egg beater 
till it is thick and lemon-colored. 

10. Mix the sugar and salt with one-half the yolk. 

11. Add the milk and sago to the yolk slowly, stirring con- 
stantly. 

12. Return to the boiler and cook until thick. 

13. While it is cooking, beat the white with the wire whisk 
until light and dry. 

14. Remove sago from the fire. 

15. Fold in one-half the white to which the flavoring has been 
added, by putting the spoon in gently edgewise, lifting the 
thickened sago and turning it over. 

16. Repeat until all the white has been added. 

17. Turn into an individual mold which has been dipped in 
cold water, and set aside to cool. 

Principles: 

Egg is a tissue-building food. Its addition to sago, which is a 
heat-giving food, makes the resulting dish of greater food 
value. 

In whipping the white of the egg, air is beaten in and held 
by the sticky egg in what might be termed little cases, or envel- 
opes. The beaten white must be carefully folded in the sago 
mixture so as not to break these little cases. If broken, the air 
will escape and the mixture be less light and fluffy. 
Serving: 

Turn out the mold on a small fancy plate or compote dish. 
Serve with cream and sugar. 

Sago pudding may be used as a luncheon dish or a dessert 
for dinner. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CEREALS 



73 



Ask to have it 




Table manners: 

Rule. — Never reach across the table for food, 
passed to you. 
Setting the table: 

For luncheon, it is now quite customary to use individual 
plate, tumbler, and other small doilies instead of a table cloth. 
These are not ap- 
propriate, however, 
unless the table is 
highly polished, or 
of beautiful wood. 

These doilies may 
be made of fine 
linen, embroidered 
or plain, edged with 
lace or scalloped, or 
may be crocheted of 
India twist or of a 
novelty braid and crochet cotton. 

A complete luncheon set consists of six (or more) 12-inch plate 
doilies, six (or more) 8-inch bread and butter plate doilies, six 
(or more) 4-inch tumbler doilies, and some odd sizes for salts, 
and peppers, and other extra things set on the table, besides a. 
large centerpiece. 
Cleaning up: 

1. Soak the dishes in which the egg was beaten in cold water, 
also the upper part of the double boiler. After washing, rinse 
all dishes in hot water and dry thoroughly. 
What has been learned: 

1. That eggs should be washed before using. 

2. That a fresh egg is rough and dull-colored and sinks in 
cold water, lying on its side. 

3. That eggs and sago make a dish of greater food value than 
either alone. 

4. That air may be beaten into the white of an egg. 



Fig. 42.--Table Set with Doilies Instead of 
Table Cloth 



Digitized by 



Google 



for serving 



74 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

5. That folding a beaten egg white into a mixture makes the 
mixture light. 

Lesson XXV 

Tapioca Pudding 

Materials used: 

2 tb tapioca 2 figs 

I c boiling water a little nutmeg and cin- 

1 apple namon 

a pinch of salt a bit of lemon rind 

1 tb sugar 2 tb cream 

a few drops of lemon juice 1 tp sugar 

Utensils needed: 

Pan saucepan bowl 

strainer or sieve double boiler Dover egg beater 

Work to be done: 

1. Soak the tapioca 1 hr. or more in enough cold water to 
cover. (This must be done before the lesson period.) 

2. Cut apple into small slices. 

3. Cook with the figs in a small amount of water. 

4. When cooked, drain off the juice and strain. 

5. Add the boiling water, strained juice and seasonings to the 
tapioca and put the mixture into the double boiler. 

6. Cook until the tapioca is transparent. 

7. Dip^moldor cup in cold water. 

8. Line it with the slices of apple. 

9. Turn the tapioca into the mold and set aside to cool. 
Principles: 

Tapioca is a heat-giving food. Combined with fruit it has 
less nutritive value than sago with egg. 
Serving: 

Add the sugar to the cream and whip in a bowl (Lesson II). 
Turn the tapioca mold out on a dessert plate or compote dish. 
Surround with a wreath of whipped cream. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CEREALS 75 

Table manners: 

Rule : Never try to talk with food in the mouth. 
Setting the table: 

For luncheon, small fringed or hemstitched napkins are used. 

When cards are used to seat guests, they should be placed on 
the napkins. Nothing but the name of the guest or the name 
and a simple decoration are required. 
Cleaning up: 

After washing the dishes, remember that the towels and 
washer need hot soapy water, good rinsing, sunshine and air 
to keep them sweet and clean. 
What has been learned: 

Tapioca, as well as fruits, furnishes the body with heat. 

Lesson XXVI 

Macaroni and Cheese 

Materials used: 

Class Rule Home Rule 

1 stick macaroni ^ c macaroni cut into inch 

1 c boiling water pieces 

J tp salt 2 qt (8 c) boiling water 

1 tb flour 1 tb salt 

4 tp milk 1\ c white sauce 

1 tb grated cheese f c grated cheese 

i tp butter 

1 tb buttered bread crumbs 
Utensils needed: 

Saucepan teaspoon measuring cup grater 

sieve tablespoon bowl baking dish 

Work to be done: 

1. Break the macaroni into inch pieces. 

i. Cook in 1 c of boiling water for about 20 minutes. 

3. Turn into a sieve and drain and then pour cold water over 
them to keep the pieces from sticking together and becoming pasty . 



Digitized by 



Google 



76 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

4. Make a white sauce according to directions given in Les- 
son VII. 

5. Butter the baking dish. 

6. Put in this dish a layer of macaroni. 

7. Sprinkle with grated cheese. 

8. Repeat the layers. 

9. Pour the white sauce over the layers. 

10. Cover with the buttered bread crumbs (Lesson IX), and 
bake until the crumbs are brown. 
Principles : 

Macaroni is a starchy food. In order to give it greater food 
value, cheese, which is a tissue-building food, is combined with 
it. The milk and butter also build tissue, while the butter 
furnishes energy, so that this is a very nutritious dish. 

Such dishes are called composite because of their being com- 
posed of different kinds of foods. 
Serving: 

Macaroni should be served hot in the dish in which it is baked. 
To protect the hands a napkin is usually wrapped about the 
baking dish unless it be one especially made for this purpose 
with an outer dish of silver. 

Because this dish is nutritious and hearty, it makes a good 
one for the main part of a luncheon. 
Table manners: 

Rule : Toothpicks should be used only in private. 

Toothpicks, especially when made of wood, are doubtless 
of great benefit to the teeth, but they should never be used in 
public. Neither should the tongue search the mouth for scat- 
tered particles of food. While this is undoubtedly nature's way 
of cleansing the teeth, good manners dictate that this, like 
other acts of the toilet, should be performed only in private. 
Serving guests: 

It is well to remember that one serves at the left if the guest 
is to help himself from a given dish and at the right if the one 
serving helps the guest to the food. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CEREALS 77 

What has been learned: 

A composite dish has the value of the different foods in it, 
hence may form the main part of a meal. 

Additional Recipes 

Macaroni with White Sauce 

i c macaroni 1 tb salt 

2 c boiling water 1} c white sauce 

Cook the macaroni in boiling salted water 20 minutes or until soft. 
Drain. Pour cold water over it. Make white sauce. Reheat macaroni 
in white sauce. 

Macaroni with Tomato Sauce 

Mix } c boiled macaroni with a cup of tomato sauce. The addition of a 
little onion to the tomato sauce gives a pleasing flavor. Add about ^ c 
grated cheese, turn into a buttered baking dish, cover with buttered cracker 
crumbs, and bake in hot oven until cnunbs are browned. 

Baked Macaroni (1) 

Take i lb. macaroni and boil till tender in a stew pan with a little water; 
warm 1 tb butter in a pudding dish, and put in a layer of macaroni, then a 
layer of cheese, grated or cut into small pieces; sprinkle with salt, pepper, 
and small pieces of butter, then add another layer of macaroni and so on, 
finishing off with cheese. Pour on rich milk or cream enough to come to 
the top of the ingredients. Bake from 30 to 45 minutes. 

Baked Macaroni (2) 

One-half pound macaroni broken in pieces. Pour over boiling water, 
add a little salt. Boil hard twenty minutes; drain and put in a pudding 
dish and pour over the following. mixture; Two tablespoons flour, two 
teaspoons dry mustard, one-half pound grated cheese, one pint new milk. 
Mix mustard and flour into a smooth paste, with some of the cold milk, 
set the rest on the stove. When boiUng add flour, mustard and cheese; 
cook imtil it looks smooth, taking care that it does not bum. When done 
pour over macaroni and bake until a nice brown. Twenty minutes ought 
to be enough. Be sure to use new milk, as otherwise the cheese will 
cause it to curdle. 



Digitized by 



Google 



SUGAR 
Lesson XXVn 

Sugar (Reading) 

The plants from which we get sugar are the maple tree, the 
sugar cane, and the sugar beet. The sugar is first obtained in 
the form of a thin syrup. To get this sugar from the canes, 
the stalks are crushed between heavy rollers, and the juice 
which is pressed out is caught in vessels. 

Sugar beets are washed, cut into small pieces, and heated in 
water until the sugar is dissolved by the water. 

The maple syrup is first obtained as sap which rises from 
the roots to the branches of the maple tree early in the spring. 
After the sap from any one of these plants is obtained, it is 
boiled in a large kettle to evaporate the water. When enough 
water has been driven off, the sugar will begin to form hard 
lumps, or crystals, in the kettle. 

The crystals formed from boiling the juice of the sugar cane 
or beet are not fine and white like the sugar which comes from 
the store. There are some dirt and mineral matter and some 
dark coloring matter in them and they must therefore be 
cleaned. This process of cleaning is called refining. The 
dark crystals, known as "raw sugar,'* are dissolved in hot water, 
which is then strained through cloth and then through bone 
charcoal. This takes out all the dirt and even the dark color. 

Everyone knows how the mud is thrown outward by the 
buggy wheels when the vehicle is driven rapidly through it. 
The force that throws the mud outward is called the centrifugal 
force (getting away from the center). This same force is used 
in separating the sugar from the clear, clean liquid which is 
obtained by refining. This liquid is put into a machine which 

78 



Digitized by 



Google 



SUGAR 79 

is whirled rapidly. Because the water is heavier than the 
sugar, it is thrown to the outside, where it is drawn off, leaving 
the sugar in the center of the machine. The rapid turning of 
the machine also keeps the sugar grainy and so we get our com- 
mon granulated sugar. Loaf sugar is made by running the 
syrup into molds, where it hardens, and then it is sawed into 
pieces. The broken pieces which are left after this sawing are 
ground up into pulverized sugar. 

After the sugar is made, if both are thoroughly refined, one 
cannot tell which is made from beets and which from sugar cane, 
for they look and taste alike. But the poorer quaUties of beet 
sugar show a decided bluish or pinkish color and sometimes a 
very noticeable blackish tinge. A practiced eye can detect 
these inferior grades. Some housewives believe that fruit 
keeps better if preserved with cane sugar instead of beet sugar, 
and that the latter will not make good candy. 
Other kinds of sugar: 

There are other kinds of sugar which are less commonly used 
in cooking. One of these is grape sugar. This is sometimes 
made from grapes, but more often from cornstarch, which is 
heated by a certain process till it forms a syrup. It is not so 
sweet as cane sugar and is used principally in making candy 
and table syrup. 

Fruit sugar is a sugar that forms naturally on fruits, especially 
on grapes and dates when the water evaporates from them. 

Milk sugar is made from milk and is used almost exclusively 
in medicine. 

SaccMrine, which is really not a sugar at all, but is made from 
coal tar, is many times sweeter than sugar. It is used to sweeten 
commercially canned fruits and vegetables, and when so used 
is considered an adulterant, that is, a substance which makes 
another impure or of lower quality. 



Digitized by 



Google 



80 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



Materials used: 



1 lb sugar 



Lesson XXVIII 

Peanut Nougat 

1 lb. granulated sugar = 2 c, 
1 qt roasted peanuts 




Fig. 43. — Grinding Nuts 



I tp salt 
i tb butter 
Utensils needed: 
Granite pan 
wooden spoon 
meat grinder 
bowl plate 

flat-bottomed tin 
Work to be done: 

1. Shell the peanuts, re- 
move the brown skins, and 
put nuts into the bowl. 



2. Put the meat grinder together, using the largest knife. 

3. Place the plate under the mouth of the grinder. 

4. Grind the nuts and sprinkle with salt. 

5. Place the sugar in the granite pan and melt over the fire. 

6. Stir with wooden spoon and be very careful not to let it 
hrovm. Do not let sugar remain on the sides of the pan. 

7. When melted, add nuts. 

8. Butter the tin. 

9. Pour nougat into the tin. 
10. Let cool and cut in squares. 

Principles : 

One of the uses of sugar is to sweeten food. Fruit, being 
acid, requires a great deal of sugar to sweeten it. Cake has 
considerable sugar and bread only a little, if any at all, hence 
cake is much sweeter than bread. 

Sugar is valuable to the housewife as a preservative. Fruit in 
season cooked with it and placed in air-tight cans can be kept for 
winter use, the sugar acting as a sweetener and a preservative. 



Digitized by 



Google 



SUGAR 81 

Sugar, like starch, supplies heat and energy to the body, 
but as it dissolves more readily than starch, the body digests it 
more easily. If more sugar is eaten than the body can use, 
it is changed into fat and stored in the body. 

Nearly everyone is fond of sweets, but children seem to care 
more for them than do older people, probably because they move 
about so much that they need more energy-building food. 

When a sweet is made with a great many nuts, it forms a 
nearly perfect food. Nuts contain a great deal of fat, and some 
tissue-building food, and the sugar furnishes heat and energy. 
Peanuts, although not really nuts, but legumes, are especially 
rich in oil, and for this reason, peanut nougat forms a very 
desirable sweet for children. 
Serving: 

Because of the tendency of the young to overeat of sweets, 
and thus create a distaste for other foods, it is well to eat the 
candy as a dessert or accompanjdng dessert. 

Take one piece of candy at a time and handle daintily with 
the fingers of the right hand. If one has candy tongs, they 
should be used to take the candy from the dish. 
Table manners: 

Rule: Sticky fingers should be cleaned with the napkin. 

It is no uncommon thing to see children and even young 
people lick off the ends of the fingers after eating candy. This 
is a habit which ought to be corrected. 
Setting the table: 

If one has choice bonbon dishes that will add to the appear- 
ance of the table, they may be placed upon the table at equal 
distances from each other and from the vases and candles, if the 
latter are used, although, as stated in Lesson XIII, it is cus- 
tomary to set such dishes upon the sideboard or table. 
Cleaning up: 

1. The grinder should be cleaned in hot water after each 
using, and each part carefully dried before being put away. 

2. The nougat pan and tin should be soaked in hot water. 



Digitized by 



Google 



82 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

What has been learned: 

1. Sugar is used for sweetening and preserving foods. 

2. Sugar is an energy-producing food. 

3. Sugar is more easily digested than starch. 

4. Excess of sugar in the body is stored as fat. 

Additional Recipes 

PiNOCHE 

2 c brown sugar 4 tb butter 

i c milk 1 c nut meats 

15 drops vanilla 
Boil the sugar, milk, and butter until a soft ball can be formed in cold 
water. Remove from the fire, add nuts and vanilla, and beat until 
creamy. Pour into buttered pans to cool. Cut in squares. 

Sugared Popped Corn 

2 qt popped com 2 c brown sugar 

2 tb butter i c water 

Put butter in the saucepan, and wh^i melted add sugar and water. 

Bring to the boiling point and let boil sixteen minutes. Pour over the corn, 

stirring the corn until every kernel is coated. 

Lesson XXIX 

Chocolate Fudge 

Materials used: 

1| c sugar 1 sq Baker's chocolate 

f c water or milk or 4 tb cocoa 

2 tp butter | tp vanilla 

Utensils needed: 

Wooden spoon buttered platter or pan tablespoon 

cup case knife teaspoon 

granite pan 

Work to be done: 

1. Place sugar, water, butter, and square of chocolate in the 
granite pan. 

2. Boil. Do not stir after boiling has commenced. 



Digitized by 



Google 



SUGAR 83 

3. Test by letting a drop fall into a cup of cold water. When 
it makes a round, soft ball which can be rolled in the fingers, 
it is done. 

4. When done, remove from fire, add vanilla, and set aside 
to cool. 

5. When so cool that it will not burn the fingers, stir with 
the wooden spoon until it begins to thicken. 

6. Turn it on the platter or tin and allow to cool. 

7. If desired, walnuts, pecans, or hickory nuts may be added 
when the stirring begins. 

Candy maxims: 

"When cooking sugar for candy, use a granite or iron pan, 
as the sugar is less likely to bum in these than in tin." 

"Butter pans for candy before the candy is cooked.'' 

"When the candy is poured into the pan, do not scrape the 
cooking pan over it nor allow any of the scrapings to fall into it. 

"Scraping or stirring the candy while cooking will cause it to 
become sugary." 

"Acids, like lemon juice or cream of tartar, added to candy 
while cooking will keep it clear." 
Caution: 

Great care must be exercised when making candy to take 
it off the fire at just the right moment; if allowed to cook too 
short a time, the candy will not harden; if too long a time, it 
will become hard and sugary. 
Table manners: 

Rule: Dip the tips of the fingers in the finger howl and dry 
on the napkin. 
Serving guests: 

Finger bowls should be passed after any course that requires 
the fingers to touch the food. These should be set on a small 
dessert plate upon which is a dainty doily, and placed in front 
of each guest from the right. The pretty Japanese custom of 
dropping two or three flower petals in the water before passing 
the finger bowl has been adopted in this country. 



Digitized by 



Google 



84 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Additional Recipes 

Nut Baks 

Cover the bottom of a buttered shallow pan with H c nut meats (any 
kind desired) cut in quarters. Pour over these one pound sugar melted as 
. for peanut nougat. Mark in bars. 

Nougat 

An excellent nougat is made of one cupful of almonds, chopped and 
placed in the oven to dry. Be careful not to allow them to brown. Put 
into a saucepan two and a half cupf uls of powdered sugar and a tablespoonf ul 
of lemon juice. Place the mixture on a fire and stir with a wooden spoon 
until it is melted and slightly colored. Let it stand for a few minutes, so it 
will be thoroughly melted, then turn in the hot almonds, mix them together 
quickly, not stirring long enough to grain the sugar, and turn it onto an 
oiled slab or tin. Spread it out in an even sheet an eighth of an inch thick. 
While it is still warm mark off into squares. Break into pieces when cold. 

CocoANUT Fudge 

Boil together until when tested in cold water the syrup forms a soft 
ball, 2 c granulated sugar and 1 c rich milk. Just before taking from the 
fire, add 1 tb butter and a few drops of vanilla extract. 

When the syrup cools add some shredded cocoanut and beat until the 
mixture begins to thicken, then turn quickly into oiled tins. Set aside to 
cool, cutting into bars and squares when the fudge has set. 



Digitized by 



Google 



NUTS 
Lesson XXX 

Peanut and Potato Combination 

Materials used: 

i c mashed potato 2 tb chopped peanuts 

J tp butter i tp salt 

1 tp milk 

Utensils needed: 

Saucepan meat grinder . spoons 

pan baking dish knife 

paring knife bowl fork 

Work to be done: 

1. Wash, pare, and cook potato. 

2. Shell and grind nuts as directed in Lesson XXVIII. 

3. Mash and cream potato. 

4. Add nuts, butter, milk, and salt to potato. 

5. Cream all ingredients thoroughly. 

6. Butter the baking dish and put the mixture into it. 

7. Bake in moderate oven till thoroughly heated through 
and browned on top. 

Principles: 

Potatoes, being a starchy food, and nuts, being an oily food, 
make a composite dish of much food value. 
Serving: 

This dish should be served in the dish in which it is baked. 
It may form the main part of limcheon. 
Table manners: 

Rule: Talk only on cheerful subjects during meals. 

It is stated on good authority that cheerfulness aids the 
digestion of food. To prove the truth of this one has only to 

85 



Digitized by 



Google 



86 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

note how quickly the desire for food passes away and how 
quickly the digestive organs become inactive under the stress of 
strong feeling. Light, pleasant conversation with occasional 
laughter adds to the enjoyment of eating and aids digestion. 
Cleaning up: 

1. Clean meat grinder, desk, stove, and oven perfectly, and 
put utensils in their proper places. 

What has been learned: 

2. Potatoes and peanuts together have nutritive value 
because they furnish different food principles. 

Additional Recipes 

Peanuts and Rice 

One-half cup rice cooked in 3 c water and drained. Add 1 c dry bread 
crumbs, i c chopped nuts, 1 tp salt, 1 egg slightly beaten, i c milk. 

Stir together and put in a buttered or crumbed baking dish. Cook in a 
moderate oven 25 minutes. 

Salted Almonds 

The nuts must first be blanched, that is, whitened by being put into 
boiling water to remove the brown skin. Let boil for a minute or two, then 
plunge into cold water, when the skins may be easily removed with the 
fingers. (English walnuts need longer cooking and a knife will be needed 
to remove the skins.) 

Put the blanched almonds into a pan with melted butter and set the pan 
in a moderately hot oven. Stir frequently so that they will be a Ught brown 
on all sides. Sprinkle with salt while hot. Or, 

Fry the blanched nuts, a few at a time, in a small saucepan of olive oil 
to a delicate brown, stirring meanwhile; remove with a skinmier, drain 
on soft paper, and sprinkle with salt. 

Blanched raw peanuts, pecans, English walnuts, or roasted peanuts 
from which the skin has been removed, are salted and served the same as 
almonds. 

Lesson XXXI 

Nuts (Reading) 

Definition and description of nuts: 

A nut is the fruit of certain trees and shrubs. A typical nut 
consists of three parts: (1) the inner part, or kernel; (2) the 



Digitized by 



Google 



NUTS 87 

brown coat, or epidermis covering the kernel, and (3) the hard, 
woody outer shell. 

The kernel can be easily removed from the shell by crushing 
the latter. The brown covering of the kernel can be removed 
only by plunging the kernel into boiling water for a minute or 
two, after which the brown skin can be easily removed by 
pressing between the fingers. Usually, however, the skin is 
eaten with the kernel. 
Place of nuts in the diet: 

Nuts should form a more important part of our diet than they 
commonly do. Like the legumes, they are very rich both in 
starch and in tissue-building food. But, unlike the legumes, 
they are also rich in fat. * For this reason, they make an almost 
perfect food, and when they can be bought for ten cents a pound, 
they are one of our cheapest foods. 

The old-fashioned way of eating nuts was to serve them at the 
end of a meal. Even now it is thought that no Christmas or 
Thanksgiving dinner is complete imless nuts and raisins are 
served with dessert. These dinners usually furnish a plentiful 
supply of the food elements, and when nuts and raisins are 
added, the stomach becomes overloaded. As a result, it 
rebels, and various digestive troubles follow. It is this unwise 
use of nuts that has given to them the reputation of being 
difficult to digest. 

When the real food value of nuts is known and is taken into 
account, they cannot be found otherwise than beneficial when 
used as a part of our meals. They should not be used as a sort 
of after-dessert, but rather as an important source of tissue- 
building food. For instance, if no meat is supplied in the meal, 
the tissue-building material might be supplied by English 
walnuts, pecans, or other nuts; or they might take the place 
of a heavy pudding or other rich dessert. 

Another favorite way in which to use nuts is to serve them as 
a side dish at dinner or luncheon. Almonds are most often 
used in this way, but peanuts may also be so served. , 



Digitized by 



Google 



88 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Vegetarians (those who do not eat the flesh of anunals) often 
grind nuts in the meat grinder, mix them with some cereal or 
vegetable and bake or saut6 the mixture. Such a dish is suitable 
to serve as a meat course. 

But if nuts are to be introduced into the daily bill-of-fare, 
it must be remembered that they should be very thoroughly 
masticated; in fact, they should be retained in the mouth until 
they are reduced to an exceedingly fine pulp. If this is done, 
there is no reason to suppose that they are less digestible than 
other tissue-building food. 
Kinds of nuts: 

Nuts of some kind grow in all regions from the arctic to the 
torrid zone; but the most important nuts of commerce are those 
of the temperate and torrid zones. Those growing in the 
temperate zone are the hickory, English walnut, black walnut, 
pecan, filbert, and pinon. The nuts of the torrid zone are the 
almond, Brazil nut, and cocoanut. Our principal food niits 
are almonds, English walnuts, cocoanuts, pecans, Brazil nuts, 
hazelnuts, chestnuts, and hickory nuts. 
Almonds: 

Almonds are raised to a great extent in California, but by far 
the greater quantity used in this country are imported from 
Spain and the other Mediterranean countries. There are two 
kinds of almonds: the sweet and the bitter. Only the sweet 
almonds are eaten; almond extract and prussic acid are made 
from the bitter variety. Sweet almonds are eaten either raw, 
cooked in cake and candies, sugared or salted. Almond trees 
in bloom look very much like peach trees, and the fruit is like 
the peach, but it has a thinner pulp which shrinks up when the 
fruit ripens and the nuts fall to the ground. 
English walnuts: 

English walnuts are grown in large quantities in California, 
but many must also be imported from France, Spain, and Italy, 
to supply the demand in this country. In California, the season 
lasts from the middle of September to the last of November. 



Digitized by 



Google 



NUTS 89 

During the busiest part of the nut gathering season, all the 
men, women, ^and ' childrepi of the neighborhood turn out to 
gather the harvest. As soon as the nuts are gathered, they are 
candied to the drying trays where they are spread out about 
five inches thick and allowed to remain until they are perfectly 
dry. The walnut when gathered has not such a white shell as 
the ones bought in the market. After they are dried, they are 
sent to a place where they are bleached by chemicals and water 
and again dried. They are then ready to be shipped. 

The black walnut and the butternut are cousins of the English 
walnut which grows in many parts of the United States. 
Pecans: 

The pecan grows in large quantities in the southern Mississ- 
ippi Valley, and in the Gulf States. The trees are set about 
forty feet apart and begin to bear when about six years old. One 
tree may yield many bushels of nuts. 
Chestnuts: 

Chestnuts are not natives of this country. The seeds were 
brought here from Italy and planted; cuttings from trees 
grown in Europe are grafted onto chestnut sprouts which have 
been raised from seeds. These grow well and furnish chestnuts 
as good as those which come from abroad. 

Because of their great starch content, chestnuts should never 
be eaten raw, for raw starch is hard to digest. For this reason, 
chestnuts are usually roasted over coals much as popcorn is 
popped. In France the people steam the nut meats or cook 
them in other ways before they eat them. We often use nuts 
in turkey dressing. 
Brazil nuts: 

As the name indicates, these nuts come from Brazil. They 
grow from ten to twenty in a pod, or hard shell which is nearly 
as large as the human head. These nuts contain a great deal 
of oil; in fact, it is said that if the kernel is extracted whole 
from the shell, set on end and lighted, it will bum. This can be 
done only when the nut is quite fresh; if it is somewhat old. 



Digitized by 



Google 



90 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

it may be cut into strips and these will take fire when a lighted 
match is applied. It is this oil which becomes rancid and 
gives the disagreeable taste to the old nut. 
Cocoanuts: 

Cocoanuts are a product of a tree of the pahn family. The 
nuts grow in large bunches underneath the cluster of leaves 
which crowns the top of the tree. A good tree will produce a 
hundred nuts a year; these drop ofif when they are ripe. The 
outer husks are removed before they are shipped to market. 

The meat of the cocoanut is sometimes eaten raw, but we use 
it mostly in the form of shredded or dried cocoanut. There is 
a great niunber of other products of the cocoanut palm. 
Pistachio nuts: 

This nut, which grows in Syria, has a peculiar light green color, 
and for this reason it is often used for coloring ice cream and 
other desserts; almond flavor is then used in combination 
with it. 
Pinons: 

This nut is the seed of one variety of the great California 
pine trees. The cones of these trees sometimes grow a foot long. 
The seeds, which are the pinons of commerce, grow between 
the flakes of the cones. This nut is used a great deal in candy 
and cakes. 
Peanuts: 

Peanuts are really not a nut at all, but a legimie. But 
unlike peas and beans, peanuts contain, besides the starch 
and tissue-building material, a large amount of fat. The starch 
content is so large that it must be roasted before it is good to 
eat. After roasting, its flavor is very much like that of a true 
nut and very delicious. 

Peanuts are thought to be a native of Brazil. They are now 
raised in all warm regions of the globe; in the United States, 
Virginia perhaps leads in their production. Enormous quan- 
tities are used in this country, and hundreds of bushels are 
exported to Europe. 



Digitized by 



Google 



NUTS 91 

Before the peanuts are planted, the kernels are removed from 
their pods. Care must be taken not to break the brown skin 
which covers the kernels, for if this is broken, they will not grow. 
They are planted in rows three feet apart, just like com, and the 
kernels two feet apart in the rows. 

When they come up, they are cultivated much as our com is, 
but the field looks much like a field of clover. After a few weeks, 
small yellow flowers appear on the vines. These fall ofif after 
a short time. As soon as they have fallen off, the stem shoots 
downward and buries its tip in the soil. At the tip the peanuts 
are produced. 

When these are ready to be harvested, the whole plant is 
plowed up much as we plow up potatoes. Negro men, women 
and children go over the field and pile the vines with the peanuts 
clinging to them in heaps. The vines are left in these heaps for 
several days, or until the pods can be removed from the vines. 
The vines are then fed to the cattle. 

As the nuts grow in the soil, they are dirty. This dirt is 
removed in factories with machinery which works somewhat 
like the fanning mill with which grain is cleaned. After the 
nuts are cleaned, they are sorted, those poorest in quality being 
sent to candy ifactories to be made into candy. The other two 
grades are placed in sacks to be shipped all over the country 
or perhaps to Europe. 

Peanuts are chiefly used for eating at odd times; but because 
of the large amount of nutrients they contain, they ought to 
become more regularly a part of our diet. 

Some of the peanuts sent to France are crushed to extract 
the oil in which they are very rich. This oil looks and tastes 
much like olive oil and is used in the same way. Large quan- 
tities of peanut oil are now made also in this country. It is 
used for salads and also in cooking to take the place of lard. 

Peanuts are also crushed very fine and the oil retained. This 
crushed product is packed into jars and sold as peanut butter. 
It makes very wholesome and nutritious sandwiches. 



Digitized by 



Google 



EGGS 
Lesson XXXII 

Experiments 

Materials used: 
3 eggs 

Utensils needed: 

3 granite pans with covers 3 dishes into which to 

case knife empty eggs 

Work to be done: 

1. Place one egg (unbroken) in rapidly boiling water and 
allow it to remain there three minutes. Then remove from the 
water. 

2. Place another egg in rapidly boiling water and allow it to 
remain ten minutes, then remove from the fire. 

3. Place the last egg in enough rapidly boiling water to cover 
the egg, take the pan ofif the fire, but do not set it where a current 
of cold air will strike it. Allow the egg to remain in the water 
ten minutes. 

4. Break open the first egg and examine the contents. 

5. Break open the second egg, examine the contents, and 
compare with the first. 

6. Do the same with the third egg. 
Principles: 

The egg which is cooked in boiling water for three minutes, 
when cut open, will be seen to have the outer layers of the egg- 
white very hard and firm, the inner layers less so, and the yolk 
will seem not to have been afifected at all by the heat. This 
method of cooking eggs is not a good one because the heat does 
not get time to penetrate to the yolk, hence the yolk is not 
cooked. The white being nearer the shell comes in contact 

92 



Digitized by 



Google 



EGGS 93 

with the heat so it is often cooked too hard. This is especially 
likely to be true of the outer layers of the white. 

The egg which is cooked in boiling water for ten minutes 
will appear quite different from the first egg, in that the yolk 
and the white will both be very solid, and the white, especially, 
will be tough. Physicians who have experimented with the 
digestibility of eggs tell us that when eggs are cooked so long and 
at such a high temperature they become tough. Eggs thus 
cooked are not so easily digested as are eggs cooked at a lower 
temperature and for a shorter period of time. Hence this 
method is not a good way of cooking eggs. 

The white of the egg which was cooked in hot, but not boiling 
water, will be found to be solid, but very tender and delicate. 
The yolk will not be solid, but it will show the efifect of the heat. 
This is the best way of cooking eggs because they are tender, 
delicate, and easily digested. If eggs are desired soft, they 
should be left in the water a shorter time; if hard, a longer 
time. But in cooking eggs this way one must be sure to have 
them covered with plenty of water, and not to expose the pan 
in which they are cooked to a current of cold air so that the 
contents become cooled too quickly. 
Cleaning up: 

Soak egg dishes in cold water. Hot water cooks the egg and 
causes it to adhere more closely to the sides of the dish, but cold 
water dissolves the egg so that it can be removed with ease from 
the sides of the dish. 

Wash and put away all utensils according to previous 
directions. 
What has been learned: 

1. Eggs cooked in such a way that they are tough and hard 
are difficult to digest. 

2. Eggs cooked below the boiling point are tender in texture, 
delicate in flavor, and easy to digest. 

3. Egg dishes should always be soaked in cold water. 



Digitized by 



Google 



94 



Materials used: 

1 egg 

1 slice stale bread 
Utensils needed: 
Omelet pan 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Lesson XXXm 

Poached Eggs 
1 tb butter 



skimmer 



plate 



2 drops vinegar 
salt and pepper 

case knife 




Fig. 44.— Fig. 45.— 

Trimming Bread Placing Egg on Toast ; Breaking Egg in Pan 

Work to be done: 

1. Trim the crusts from the slice of bread, making it oblong 
in shape, but do not waste the bread; put the crumbs and crusts 
in a pan to be dried for bread crumbs. 

2. Light the broiler in the large range. Place bread on the 
rack and toast it on both sides or put between the parts of a 
wire toaster and toast over the flame. 

3. Butter toast and place on warm plate. 

4. Place water in omelet pan, add two drops of vinegar and 
bring to a boil, then lower the flame so as not to allow it to 
continue to boil. 

5. Break the egg with a knife and drop into the water. The 
water should not quite cover the egg. 

6. Allow the egg to remain in the hot, but not boiling, water 
until the white is quite firm, or jelly-Uke, and the golden yolk 
shows through a veil of white. 



Digitized by 



Google 



EGGS 95 

7. Remove with the skunmer and place on the toast without 
breaking. 
Principles: 

Slightly stale bread is better for toasting than fresh bread 
because it has lost some of its moisture and therefore browns 
more quickly and evenly. Very dry bread should never be 
used for toast unless milk or water toast is to be made, for it 
makes a hard, dry piece of toast. The best toast is made 
directly over a bed of coals. It should first be held at some 
distance to dry out the moisture, then nearer to give the golden 
brown color. 

It may be buttered as soon as toasted, but is more easily 
digested if buttered just before eating. 

The poached egg should never be cooked in boiling water, 
for boiling water will make the white tough and some of it may 
be broken off and wasted in the water. 

Eggs are a tissue-building food. This material in the white 
is called albumen. Albiunen is soluble in water, hence some of it 
may be lost when the egg is dropped into water. To prevent 
this, the vinegar is first put in. This coagulates (i.e., hardens) 
the white so it will not dissolve. 
Serving: 

Poached egg on toast is one of our best breakfast dishes. 
Stale bread being easy to digest, this is also a good dish for 
invalids. When served at a family breakfast, the eggs on 
slices of toast may be placed on a large platter and served from 
the table, or brought in on individual plates. They should be 
cut with the knife and eaten with the fork. 
Table manners: 

Rule : Do not hold the knife and fork upright on the table. 
Garnishing of food: 

The garnish should be simple and so placed as not to interfere 
with the food. 
Cleaning up: 

Place egg shells in the garbage can. 



Digitized by 



Google 



96 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Place crusts and crumbs in a pan to be saved for bread crumbs. 
Soak all the dishes which have had egg in them in cold water. 
Wash and put away all dishes and utensils. 
What has been learned: 

Use slightly stale bread for toast. 

Poach eggs in hot, not boiling, water. 

Albumen is the tissue-bijilding material in the white of egg^ 

Albimien is soluble in water; vinegar hardens it. 

Lesson XXXIV 

Plain Omelet 
Materials used: 

Class Rule Home Rule 

1 egg 1 egg for each person 

1 tb water 1 tb water for each egg 

Ye tp salt I tp salt 

1 tp butter 1 tb butter 

For white sauce: For white sauce: 

i c milk 2 c milk 

i tb butter 2 tb butter 

i tb flour 2 tb flour 

^ tp salt i tp salt 
Utensils needed: 

Omelet pan Dover egg beater tablespoon case knife 

2 bowls mixing spoon teaspoon small plat^ 
Work to be done: 

1. Make white sauce according to directions in Lesson Vfl 
or VIII, and place where it will keep hot. f 

2. Break and separate the egg, placing white in one bowl and 
yolk in the other. 

3. Beat the yolk until thick and lemon colored. 

4. Add salt and water to the yolk and mix. q,^ 

5. Beat white until stiff and dry. p. 

6. Add white to the yolk and mix hy folding , never by stirrii^g. 



Digitized by 



Google 



EGGS 



97 



7. Place butter in pan and heat. 

8. Add the mixture. 

9. Cook on the top of the stove until browned underneath, 
then place on the upper grate of the moderately hot oven. 

10. Test with the fingers. When done, no dents made by the 
fingers will remain on the surface. 

- 11. Remove from oven. Hold the pan in the left hand. 
With a knife in the right hand, cut across the center of the top 
at right angles to the handle of the pan. 




Inverting Omelet 
on Platter (13) 



Fig. 46.— 
Omelet Folded (12) 
Ready to Serve (14) 



Cutting Omelet (11) 



'^^12. Fold the half nearest the handle over onto the other half. 

13. Place hot platter or plate over the pan and invert so that 
p atter is beneath pan. Be sure to arrange platter and pan so 
tl at the omelet will fall in the center of the platter. 

14. Surround with hot white sauce and garnish with parsley. 
Principles: 

The object in beating eggs is to beat as much air into them as 
r >ssible so that they will be light. To get the best results, 
u: e a round-bottomed bowl for the Dover egg beater or a platter 
fcr the wire whisk or fork. 



Digitized by 



Google 



98 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Whites are beaten "stiff," when they do not fall out when the 
bowl is inverted; they are beaten "dry," when the gloss is gone 
from them and little flakes of white fly off dmdng the beating. 

Yolks should be beaten in a round-bottomed bowl with a 
Dover egg beater or fork. When they are well beaten, they 
are thick and much lighter colored. 

Eggs are beaten slightly when the yolk and white are well 
mixed and the whole is smooth and creamy. Custards and 
some sauces are beaten in this way. 

Eggs are beaten till "light" to entangle fine bubbles of air, 
but more air can be beaten into the egg when the yolk and white 
are beaten together than when beaten separately. 

When egg mixtures into which a great deal of air has been 
beaten are placed in a hot oven, the heat causes the air to expand 
that is, to occupy more space, so that it needs to make more 
room for itself. To do this it must push the walls of the mix- 
ture which surrounds the air bubbles farther and farther out. 

The heat hardens, or coagulates, the albumen, so that when 
the mixture is removed from the fire, the walls around the air 
bubbles have hardened, and a. light, porous food is the result. 
The water which was added to the yolk becomes steam when 
heated and this helps to make the omelet light. But because 
there is no flour added to the mixture, there is nothing present 
which will keep the thin walls of albimien hard, so when the 
omelet cools, the steam becomes water again, the air shrinks 
in volume, and the walls of albumen, being relaxed from pres- 
sure, collapse, or fall together. For this reason, the omelet 
must be turned at once upon a hot platter, surrounded by 
boiling hot white sauce and served at once. 

"It is better to wait a minute for an omelet to be served than 
to have the omelet wait a minute to be served." 
Serving: 

Omelets may be used either as a breakfast or afe a luncheon 
dish, and they also make a good dish for invalids. They 
should be served from a platter, but never by cutting with a 



Digitized by 



Google 



EGGS 9^ 

knife into individual portions; a spoon should be used for this 
purpose. An omelet should be eaten with a fork. 
Table manners: 

Rule : Do not gesticulate with the knife or the fork. 
Garnishing the food: 

A garnish must be edible, that is, fit to be eaten, and should 
be appropriate to the food served. 

Omelets may be varied by the use of fillings or garnishes, or 
both. The filling finely chopped may be mixed with the omelet 
or it may be mixed with a sauce and sprinkled over the surface 
of the omelet before it is folded. Green or canned peas, fresh 
or canned mushrooms, oysters, finely chopped ham or chicken 
and asparagus tips in white sauce, are used, also macaroni in 
tomato sauce. When used as a garnish, the sauce is simply 
poured around the omelet. 
Cleaning up: 

Soak the pan in which the white sauce was made and the 
egg beater in cold water. Remember not to wet the cogs of 
the Dover beater, f 

Clean and put away utensils as usual. 
What has been learned: 

Eggs are beaten to get air into them. 

Air in a mixture expands in cooldng and makes the mixture 
light. 

The absence of flour in an omelet to give "staying power" to- 
the walls of albumen, causes the walls to collapse quickly after 
cooking, therefore an omelet must be served hot. 

Whites of eggs are beaten "stiff," when they do not run when 
inverted, and "dry," when they lose their gloss and fly off in 
flakes. 

Note: A variation of the plain omelet may be made by scalding a 
little parsley, pouring off the water, chopping it, and mixing it with the 
omelet just before pouring it into the pan. 

Old cheese grated and added to a plain omelet is a favorite dish. 



Digitized by 



Google 



100 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Lesson XXXV 

Scrambled Eggs 
Materials used: 

Class Rule Home Rule 

1 egg 5 eggs 

I tb milk or cream ^ c milk or cream 

1 tp butter ' 2 tb butter 

J tp salt 1 tp salt 

Utensils needed: 

Omelet pan tablespoon teaspoon bowl egg beater 
Work to be done: 

1. Break eggs into the bowl and beat slightly. 

2. Add salt and milk. Mix well by stirring. 

3. !Place butter in the omelet pan and melt. 

4. Add the mixture to the butter and place over low fire. 

5. Cook, scraping continually from the bottom of the pan in 
such a way that that part of the mixture which is cooked shall 
come on top and that which was on top shall go to the bottom. 

6. The last of the cooking should be done by the heat of the 
pan alone. 

7. Do not let the eggs brown nor cook too hard. They 
should have a custard-like appearance. 

Principles: 

Physicians tell us that the white of eggs is more easily digested 
when it reaches the stomach in a finely divided state. For 
this reason, one should chew eggs very thoroughly. Many 
think that when the white and yolk are beaten together before 
cooking, as in scrambled eggs, they are more easily digested 
because of the finely divided state of the whites. 
Serving: 

Scrambled eggs are a breakfast dish which should be served 
hot. They may be heaped in the center of a platter surrounded 
by bacon saut^ed until crisp, or they may be varied by adding 
any of the materials which may be added to omelets. When 



Digitized by 



Google 



EGGS ' ]:.; 1 .. 101.: 

such are to be added, they should be chopped* fiije and Acided to/ 
the mixture before it goes into the omelet pan: Scfdflibled eggs 
may also be served alone, garnished with a few sprigs of parsley 
or may be served on toast. 
Table manners: 

Rule: Approach the right side of a chair at the table and 
rise from the same side. 
Garnishing of food: 

Dainty ways of serving food have a value other than that of 
beauty. A feeble appetite is often tempted by a tastefully 
garnished dish, and many cheap articles of food and "left-overs," 
when made attractive, may be just as appetizing as more 
expensive ones. 
Cleaning up: 

Observe directions given before for egg dishes. 

Be careful to rinse and dry well all the utensils used. 
What has been learned: 

The stomach more readily digests white of egg when it is 
divided into very fine particles. 

Lesson XXXVI 

CUSTAKDS 

Note to Teacher: In this lesson divide the class into halves, letting 
each alternate girl make yellow custard, the others white custard. 

Yellow Custard 
Materials used: 

Class Rule Home Rule 

1 c scalded milk 4 c scalded milk 

1 egg 4 eggs 

1 tb sugar . | c sugar 

a very little salt i tp salt 

a few grains of nutmeg a few grains of nutmeg 

or cinnamon or cinnamon 

i tp butter 1 tp butter 



Digitized by 



Google 



'i02 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



White Custard 



•JlkteridS'TOetf: ••* 
Class Rule 

White of one egg 

^ tb sugar 

a very little salt 

i c scalded milk 

J tp vanilla 

i tp butter 
Utensils needed: 

Double boiler 

bowl 

egg beater 

measuring cup 

teaspoon 

strainer 

Yellow Custard 
Work to be done: 

1. Place milk in double boiler to scald, 
appear on the edges, it is scalded.) 



Home Rule 
whites of 4 eggs 
J c sugar 
i tp salt 
2 c scalded milk 
I tp vanilla 
1 tp butter 

pan containing hot water 
mold (in which to bake 

custard) 
case knife 
silver knife 



(When bubbles 




Fig. 47. — Straining Custard into Mold Fig. 48. — Testing with Knife 

2. Break whole egg into the bowl and beat sUghtly. • 

3. Stir in the sugar and salt. 

4. Add scalded milk, stirring slowly all the time. 



Digitized by 



Google 



EGGS 103 

5. Butter the mold. 

6. Strain the mixture into this mold. 

7. Sprinkle a little nutmeg over the top. 

8. Set the mold in the pan containing hot water and place 
in a moderate oven. 

9. To test the custard, insert a silver knife in it. When the 
knife comes* out clean, the custard is done. 

White Custard 

1. Scald the milk as for yellow custard. 

2. Beat the white of egg slightly, and add sugar and salt. 

3. Add milk and proceed as directed above. 
Principles: 

Custards are a combination of eggs and milk cooked just 
enough to give firmness to the albumen. In the best custards 
nothing but eggs, milk, sugar, salt, and flavoring are used. 
Two yolks may satisfactorily be used as one egg. Starches 
are sometimes added, in which case fewer eggs are needed, as 
the starch helps to give the necessary firmness. 

There are two classes of custards, the firm and the liquid, 
due to a difference in the way they are cooked. The latter are 
stirred all the time that they are cooking, while the former are 
not touched. 

There is also a difference in the place each has in a m^nu, 
the liquid serving simply as a sauce to other dessert, while the 
former is itself a dessert. 

In both cases the vessel in which the custard is cooked should 
be placed within another of hot, not boiUng, water, for eggs 
should be cooked below the boiling point. 

A liquid custard is done when a silver spoon inserted in it 
becomes coated. A firm custard is done when the albumen has 
become so set that it gives a jelly-Uke consistency to the whole 
mass and a silver knife thrust into it comes out clean. 

When a custard is full of holes, or curdles, or becomes watery 
when cut, it has been cooked at too high a temperature. 



Digitized by 



Google 



104 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Serving: 

Custards belong in the list of dishes served cold. They are 
used as desserts at luncheon or dinner. If baked in individual 
molds, they may be served in them, but it is better to turn each 
out into a suitable individual dish, and serve. When served 
from a large dish, place this in a casserole and place upon the 
table in front of the hostess with the individual serving dishes 
at her left, or if there is no casserole, fold a napkin about the 
large dish and set on a large round platter for serving. 
Table manners: 

Rule : Speak only in low well-modulated tones at the table, 

A loud voice is never in good taste in company, and least of all 
at the table. When ohe person talks in a loud voice, no one 
else can converse with ease, and it amounts to a monopoly of 
the conversation by one — which is never in good taste. Low, 
pleasant tones are one mark of good breeding. 
Cleaning up: 

Observe the directions for egg dishes. 
What has been learned: 

1. There are two kinds of custards, the firm and the liquid. 

2. Liquid custards are used as sauces; firm custards are used 
for desserts. 

3. Liquid custards are stirred while cooking; firm custards 
are not. 

4. Liquid custards are done when the inserted knife is coated; 
firm custards are done when the inserted knife is clean. 

Lesson XXXVn 

Caramel Custard 
Materials used: 

Class Rule Home Rule 

i c scalded milk tt tp salt 4 c scalded milk § tp salt 
i egg i tp vanilla 5 eggs 1 tp vanilla 

2 tb sugar J tp butter 1 c sugar 1 tp butter 



Digitized by 



Google 



egg beater 


tablespoon 


measuring cup 


case knife 


teaspoon 


mold 



EGGS 105 

Utensils needed: 

Granite pan 

double boiler 

bowl 
Work to be done: 

1. Scald milk in double boiler. 

2. Place sugar in the granite pan and melt as directed in 
Lesson XXII. 

3. Add scalded milk to the melted sugar and cook, stirring 
until all lumps have disappeared. 

4. Break egg and beat carefully. 

5. Take one-half the egg and add salt and flavoring. 

6. Add milk and sugar mixture and stir slightly. 

7. Butter the mold and pour the mixture into it. 

8. Bake as yellow custard is baked. 
Facts of interest about custards: 

If an egg is used to each cup of milk in making a custard, a 
delicate consistency is secured. Such a custard is not firm 
enough to be turned out, hence must be served in its own 
dish. 

If more eggs are added, the custard is firm enough to turn 
from the mold. 

Whole eggs or whites and yolks separately may be used for 
custards, the richest being made from yolks alone, but such 
a custard breaks too easily to be turned from the baking dish 
unless the whites of eggs are added. For liquid custards, 
yolks alone are preferable, but sometimes the whites beaten 
stiff are added at the last, this giving the custard a foamy, 
fluffy texture. 

As a rule, eggs in custards are not beaten till light because 
custards are firm and rich rather than light. 
Principles: 

Custard ingredients are simple, of the richest nutritive value, 
and very easily digested by man. They are combined in the 
same way as for scrambled eggs, hence have the same food 



Digitized by 



Google 



106 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

value. In order to insure their digestibility, custards, like all 
egg combinations, Aiust be cooked below the boiling point. 

A custard is a perfect food because it contains all the food 
elements, tissue-building material, heat and energy-giving 
materials, and mineral matter. For this reason, custards make 
a splendid food for all the members of the family, young and 
old, sick and well. 

Custards admit of many flavorings. Of these the most 
conunon are chocolate, grated cocoanut, crumbled xjocoanut 
cakes, soaked macaroons, chopped almonds, candied fruits, 
caramel, and lemon, orange and other highly colored jellies 
cut in cubes. ' 

Serving: 

Serve as directed under "Yellow Custard." 
Table manners: 

Rule : Stand at the back or side of the chair until the hostess 
gives the signal to he seated. 

To hasten to the table and seat one's self before others 
argues a greed for food or a selfishness that is ill-bred. 
Seating guests: 

The guest of honor, if a lady, is placed at the right of the 
host; if a gentleman, at the right of the hostess. 
Cleaning up: 

Take care of the dishes in the way directed in other lessons 
on eggs. 
What has been learned: 

1. One egg to each cup of milk makes a custard which can be 
served from the mold. 

2. Whole eggs, yolks alone, or whites alone, may be used with 
the milk. 

3. Yolks make the richest custards. 

4. Custards are a perfect, easily digested food. 

5. Custards will admit of many flavorings and variations. 



Digitized by 



Google 



EGGS 107 

Lesson XXXVm 
Additional Recipes 

Eggs Dropped on Toast 

Prepare squares or circles of toast. Dip quickiy into boiling 
water to which has been added ^ tp salt for each cup of water, 
and spread with softened butter. Arrange on a platter. On 
each, break carefully a soft-boiled egg, keeping the yolk whole 
and on the center of the toast. Garnish with parsley and serve. 

Custard Bread Pudding 

This may be made by pouring any of the given custard mix- 
tures over buttered slices of toast. Bake in the oven according 
to the directions for Yellow Custard. 

Chocolate Custard 

I size unsweetened chocolate 2 c milk 

^ c sugar 3 eggs 

3 tb water | tp salt 

^ tb vanilla 
Scald the milk, melt the chocolate, and cook it with half the 
sugar and all of the water until smooth and glossy. Add the 
scalded milk, stirring until well mixed. Beat the eggs slightly, 
add remainder of the sugar and the salt. Pour into it the choco- 
late mixture; 'strain into buttered molds. Bake as Yellow 
Custard. 

Floating Island 

1 pt milk 1 tp vanilla 

yolks of 3 eggs J tp salt 

whites of 3 eggs some currant or other 

I c sugar highly colored jelly 



Digitized by 



Google 



108 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Place the milk in a double boiler and scald.. Beat the whites 
until stiff and dry and drop by tablespoonfuls upon the milk. 
Poach until done, or until they feel firm to the touch and no 
dent is made when touched with the fingers. Lift from the 
milk with a skimmer and drain on a platter. Beat the yolks, 
add the sugar and salt, and mix thoroughly. Mix a Uttle of 
the hot milk with the yolk. When well blended, add slowly 
to the milk, stirring all the time. Stir until the spoon is coated 
with the custard; it is then done. Pour into a glass dish and 
place upon the custard the poached whites. , Set aside to chill. 
When ready to serve, place Uttle dots of jelly on each ''island." 
Serve in little glass dishes. Pass cake or suitable wafers with 
this dessert. 

Stuffed Eggs 

Cut hard-boiled eggs in halves either lengthwise or crosswise. 
Remove yolks and mash them. Add half the amount of very 
finely minced ham and enough melted butter to make of the 
consistency to shape. Shape into balls and refill the whites. 
Form the remainder into a nest and place the eggs on the nest. 
Pour white sauce over the whole, sprinkle with buttered crmnbs, 
and bake in a moderate oven till brown. 

Eggs in a Nest 

Separate the white of the egg from the yolk. Beat the white 
stiff and dry; put it in a cup or small bowl, making in the top of 
it a hollow the size of the yolk; into this hollow slip the yolk. 
Cook in a covered sauce pan containing boiling water until the 
top of the white is firm (about two minutes). Serve in the cup. 

Scalloped Eggs 

2 hard-boiled eggs f c chopped cold meat 

1 pt white sauce (thin) | c buttered cracker cnunbs 

Chop eggs finely. Sprinkle bottom of a buttered baking dish 
with crumbs; cover with one-half the eggs; cover the eggs with 



Digitized by 



Google 



EGGS 109 

sauce; the sauce with meat; repeat. Cover with the remain- 
ing cnunbs. Place in a moderate oven and bake imtil brown. 
Ham is the best meat to use, but chicken, veal, or fish may be 
used. 

Eggs a la Goldenrod 

3 hard-boiled eggs 1 tb flour i tp salt 5 slices toast 
1 tb butter 1 c milk i tp pepper parsley- 

Make a thin white sauce with butter, flour, milk, and season- 
mgs. Separate the yolks from the whites of boiled eggs. Chop 
whites finely, and add them to the sauce. Cut four slices of 
toast in halves lengthwise. Arrange on a platter, and pour 
over the sauce. Force the yolks through a potato ricer or 
strainer, then sprinkle over the top. Garnish with parsley 
and add remaining toast, cut in points. 

Lesson XXXIX 

Eggs (Reading) 

In one of the first lessons it was told how food must supply 
the body with heat and energy, build up new and renew wasted 
tissues. To do this, the foods must contain heat and energy- 
giving foods, such as starches, sugars, and fats, and tissue- 
building foods, and mineral matter from which to build up the 
bony part of the body. 

Eggs have been used as food for man since the earliest time. 
Today a great many kinds of eggs are eaten all over the world. 
Along the Amazon river one finds turtle eggs being used for 
food a great deal by the natives; these were used for food in 
the United States in former times, but as they are more scarce 
now, their use has declined. 

The eggs of some fish are highly prized as a table delicacy. 
An example of such is caviare, which is made from the eggs of the 
sturgeon and shad roe. The fishermen of Norway and Sweden 



Digitized by 



Google 



110 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

greatly prize the eggs of the herring, which is abundant in the 
waters surrounding their peninsula. 

Eggs of some wild birds are also esteemed for food. In 
England and Germany plover eggs are thus used; in this 
country the eggs of certain sea birds such as the gull, tern, and 
heron are gathered for food. 

But among civilized people, the eggs most commonly used are 
those of the domestic fowls, such as ducks, geese, guinea fowls, 
turkeys, and hens. The eggs of the guinea hen have a very 
delicate flavor; turkey eggs are more valuable for setting, 
hence they are but rarely used for food. In South Africa, 
where ostrich raising is an important industry, their eggs are 
used to some extent for food, and are said to be of excellent 
quality for cooking. But the term "eggs," usually refers to the 
eggs of the hen. 

All are familiar with the appearance of the egg as it comes 
from the market. Eggs of the different kinds of birds vary much 
in color, but those of the hen range only from pure white to a 
light or deep brown in tint. 

There are five parts to a hen's egg; the shell, outer covering, 
the membrane lining the shell, the white, the membrane sur- 
rounding the yolk, and the yolk. The egg white is in a semi- 
fluid condition; the yolk is kept in its place within this fluid by 
means of two twisted cords of white. Within the yolk is a 
little mass which is called the embryo. This embryo is the 
living part of the egg; under the right conditions this embryo 
will develop in the course of three weeks into a tiny little chick. 
The yolk and the white of the egg are the materials which are 
used by the embryo as it grows; from them come all the tissues 
and organs of the little chick. 

The tissues of the chick are composed of essentially the same 
materials as are the tissues of the human body. It has already 
been said that eggs are a tissue-building food. Tissue-building 
principles from different sources are slightly different in com- 
position and are given different names. In eggs the principle 



Digitized by 



Google 



EGGS 111 

is called albumen; the white of the egg is composed chiefly of 
albumen and water, and albumen is also present in the yolk. 
The name comes from a Latin word, "albus/' meaning white. 
There is so much water present with the albumen that an egg 
is more than half water. The yolk contains in addition to the 
albumen and water, large amounts of a fatty substance, or oil, 
and mineral matter. 

The egg contains neither starch nor sugar. What foods, 
therefore, should be served with egg to supply this lack? 

Eggs are now used in every family to a large extent. , They 
are used directly in the dietary in the form of boiled, poached, 
or scrambled eggs, as well as in a nimiber of other forms. They 
are also used indirectly in making other foods light, as in cake, 
or for giving richness, as in sauces. Because they are thus 
extensively used, it is necessary to know how to choose fresh 
eggs. Here are four rules which may be of some assistance: 
The shell of a fresh egg is rough and dull-looking, that of a stale 
egg is smooth and shiny. Candling is another method of 
detecting spoiled eggs. Hold the egg up in front of a candle 
or other strong light in a dark room. If fresh, the contents 
of the egg should appear clear; if stale, they will appear cloudy 
or dark colored. A third method of testing is by dropping them 
into a pan of cold water. Perfectly fresh eggs will sink. An 
egg which rests on its side is fresher than one which stands on 
end. If the egg floats, it is stale, and probably not fit to use. 
The reason for this is that as the water evaporates the egg be- 
comes lighter. If enough water has evaporated to make the 
egg lighter than the water upon which it rests, it must be rather 
old. Another method is to hold the egg up to the ear and shake 
it; if it rattles, it is not fresh. 



Digitized by 



Google 



Home Rule 
1 c flour ^ tp melted 



1 c milk 

2 eggs 



butter 
tp salt 



jniMr 


ililiC 




^^^ 


^E 




igPJfe 


^Wg 





spoons 
knife 

iron gem pan 
omelet pan 



Fig. 49.— Gem Pan 



BATTERS 
Lesson XL 

Pop-overs 
Materials used: 

Class Rule 
I c sugar pinch of salt 

1 c milk 1^ tp melted 
} egg butter 

Utensils needed 

2 bowls 
sieve 
2 measuring 

cups 
Dover egg beater 
Tilings to be done: 

1. Put oven over fire. 

2. Sift the flour before measuring. 

3. Measure flour and salt and sift them together. 

4. Add the milk gradually to the flour, beating constantly 
to make a smooth batter. 

(Beat by cutting down with the spoon from top to bottom 
and bringing the spoon up again with a rapid motion, thus 
turning the mixture.) 

5. Beat the egg well with the Dover egg beater. 

6. Melt the butter in the omelet pan. 

7. Add the beaten egg and butter to the smooth batter. 

8. Beat two minutes with the Dover egg beater. 

9. Butter the gem-pan by brushing it with melted butter or 
rubbing the butter on with a piece of paper, and heat it till hot. 

10. Pour batter into the hot, buttered gem-pan. 

11. Bake about thirty-five minutes in a hot oven. 

112 



Digitized by 



Google 



BATTERS 113 

Principles: 

1. Flour which is a starchy substance, when mixed with a 
liquid — ^milk in this case — in the right proportions, forms a 
mixture which can be beaten, and is called a batter. 

2. Adding the egg and butter makes the batter more tender, 
so the egg and butter are shortening agents. 

3. The liquid which is in the batter is turned to steam by 
the great heat of the oven, and as the steam tries to escape, it 
pushes the batter up, making it rise and become full of bubbles. 
In this case the steam is called the leavening agent, because it 
makes the pop-over light. 

4. The heat of the oven hardens the batter and keeps it 
from falling together after the steam has escaped. 

5. This batter is so thin that it can be poured from the bowl 
in which it was mixed into the hot gem pan; therefore it is a 
pour batter. 

6. When butter is used for greasing tins#it should be melted 
so that the salt may settle. 

Table manners: 

Rule: One should not lean against the back of the chair, but 
sit erect 

The liability of dropping one^s food in carrying it from the plate 
to the mouth is increased by leaning back while eating. Neither 
should one lean on the elbows on the table, but sit easily erect. 
Cleaning up: 

1. Flour contains a tissue-building substance, called gluten, 
which is very sticky when it comes in contact with a liquid. 
If hot water is poured on the batter, it will cook it and make it 
harder and more difficult to remove. Therefore, batter dishes 
should always be soaked in cold or only lukewarm water. 

2. Rinse off the egg beater as soon as it has been used, for if 
the egg hardens on it, it is very hard to wash off. 

What has been learned: 

1. A batter is a mixture of a starchy, dry ingredient with 
a liquid in such proportion that the mixture can be beaten. 



Digitized by 



Google 



114 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



2. A pour batter is a batter thin enough to be poured. 

3. Shortening agents, fats and eggs, make a batter tender. 

4. Heat causes the moisture to expand into steam and makes 
the batter light. 

5. The ingredient which makes a batter light is a leavening 
agent. 

6. The heat of the oven hardens the walls of the bubbles 
caused by the steam, and keeps the pop-overs from falling. 

7. The tissue-building material in flour is called gluten. 

8. Soak batter dishes in cold or luke warm water. 

9. Butter which is to be used for greasing tins should be 
melted. 

Lesson XLI 



Bread Griddle Cakes 
Materials used: 

Class Rul% 

6 tb stale bread cnunbs 

6 tb scalded milk 

i tb butter 

^ tp baking powder 

4 egg 

1 tb flour 

^ tp salt 

small piece beef suet or fat 
pork 
Utensils needed: 

Omelet pan or griddle 

small bowl 

large bowl 

measuring cup 

Dover egg beater 
Work to be done: 

1. If the crumbs are not already prepared, prepare them as 
directed in Lesson IX. 



Home Rule 
1| c stale bread crumbs 
IJ c scalded milk 
2 tb butter 
4 tb baking powder 
2 eggs 
^ c flour 
I tp salt 
beef suet or fat pork 



sieve 

spoons 

knife or pancake turner 

fork 



Digitized by 



Google 



BATTERS 



115 




Fig. 50. — Greasing the Griddle 



2. Add milk and butter to the crumbs and let them soak till 
the crumbs are soft. 

3. Beat the egg. 

4. Sift the flour, salt, and 
baking powder together. 

5. Add } egg to the softened 
bread crumbs. 

6. Add sifted dry ingredients 
to crumbs. 

7. Beat mixture well. 

8. Piit omelet pan or griddle 
over the fire. 

9. Rub pan or griddle with 
beef suet or fat pork on end of 
fork covered with clean cheese 
cloth. 

10. When the pan is smoking hot, pour a little on it from 
the tip of the stirring spoon. 

11. When the batter is cooked on the edges and puffed full 

of bubbles, turn it 
with the case knife 
or turner and cook 
it on the other 
side. 

(Never turn a 
cake twice, or it 
will become heavy.) 

12. Place the 
cake on a warm 
plate, rub away 
any batter that re- 
mains, and grease 
the pan again, being 
sure to grease the 
whole surface. 




Fig. 51. — Turning the Cake 



Digitized by 



Google 



116 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



13. Beat the batter well and put more in the pan to cook, 
continuing until all the batter is cooked. 
Principles: 

1. A pour batter can be cooked by applying heat to one side 
at a time, as in saut6eing. 

2. Sauteeing on a greased surface keeps the batter from stick- 
ing and changes the flavor of the cake. It also adds somewhat 
to the food value, as the fat is a heat and energy-giving food. 

3. The bread crumbs are used in place of part of the flour 
of simple griddle cakes. 

4. Baking powder is made up of two dry substances which 
have the property of giving off a gas when moistened. When 

the moistened bread 
crumbs come in contact 
with the baking pow- 
der, the gas formed 
tries to escape through 
the batter and thus 
makes bubbles, just as 
escaping steam does, 
and that makes the 
batter Ught. Thus bak- 
ing powder is the leavening agent of this kind of griddle cakes. 
Serving: 

Griddle cakes should be served for breakfast. Butter, 
butter and sugar, or butter and syrup are usually served with 
them. Griddle cakes are best served hot from the griddle. 
If this is not practicable, they may be placed on a warm plate 
and a cover which has a hole in the top so that the steam may 
escape placed over them so they will not become soggy. 

A very delicious dressing for griddle cakes is made by butter- 
ing in the kitchen, while very hot, sprinkling powdered maple 
sugar on top, and serving at once. 

If griddle cakes are as Ught as they should be, they may be 
cut with the side of the fork and eaten with the fork. 




Fig. 52.— Cakes Served 



Digitized by 



Google 



BATTERS 



117 



Table manners: 

Rule : Never leave a spoon standing in a cup. After using to 
stir the sugar or to sip, remove from the cup and place in the saucer. 
If no saucer is used, lay the spoon on the side of the plate. 
Serving guests: 

Chairs should be placed at the table so that the front edge of 
each chair touches or is just below the edge of the table cloth. The 
chair should not be moved nearer the table after one is seated. 
Cleaning up: 

Because the omelet pan is very greasy, it must be washed 
in hot soapy water. 

All dishes must be carefully rinsed in hot water. 
What has been learned: 

1. To use the pour batter in making griddle cakes. 

2. To use bread crumbs in place of part of the flour. 

3. To cook a pour batter on a very hot greased surface. 

4. That baking powder is a leavening agent. 

5. That griddle cakes should be served while hot. 



lesson XLn 

Sour Milk Griddle Cakes (with Lemon Syrup) 

Materials used: 

Class Rule Home Rule 



\ c flour 

1 tp soda 

\ c sour milk 

2 tb sugar 
2 tp water 
I tp butter 
Utensils needed 

Sauce pan 
omelet pan 
large bowl 



1 tb egg 2 c flour 

^ tp salt 1 tp soda 

2 c sour milk 

Lemon Syrup 
a few drops of 1 c sugar 
lemon juice \ c water 
1 tp butter 



1 egg 
I tp salt 



1 tb lemon 
juice 



small bowl 
sieve 
measuring cup 



knife 

spoons 

Dover egg beater 



Digitized by 



Google 



118 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Work to be done: 

1. Sift the flour, then measure and sift all the dry ingredients 
together. 

2. Beat the egg. 

3. Add the egg and milk to the dry mixture, stirring con- 
stantly to make a smooth batter. 

4. Put the sugar and water for the syrup into the saucepan 
and boil five minutes. 

5. Remove the saucepan from the fire and stir in the lemon 
juice and the butter. 

6. Prepare omelet pan as in Lesson XLI. 

7. Cook cakes as in Lesson XLI. 
Principles: 

Sour milk contains an acid; when soda comes in contact with 
this acid, a gas is formed. In trying to escape, the gas makes the 
batter light, just as did the gas formed by the coming in contact 
of baking powder and moisture. Therefore, soda with sour 
milk is also a leavening agent. 
Serving: 

Serve the cakes hot. Place the syrup in a small pitcher and 
serve hot. 

Griddle cakes are a breakfast dish, although some also serve 
them for supper in cold weather. 
Cleaning up: 

1. Scald all dishes which have had sour milk in them. 

2. Wash all dishes as before directed. 
What has been learned: 

1. Sour milk contains an acid. 

2. Soda is a leavening agent. 

Supplementary Recipes 

Wheat Griddle Cakes 
Materials used: 

Class Rule Home Rule 

i c sweet milk . i tb butter J c sweet milk i tp salt 

1 egg (for 3 girls) -fg tp salt 1 egg, separated 1 c flour 

separated J c flour 1 tp butter, melted 

Digitized by LjOOQIC 



BATTERS 



119 



Work to be done: 

Put yolk of egg, salt, and i c milk in a bowl, add i c of flour and stir 
till smooth, beating if necessary. Add milk and flour alternately till both 
are all used. Beat in the butter and lastly fold in the beaten white of the 
egg. 

Whole Wheat or Graham Flour Griddle Cakes 

Make same as wheat griddle cakes, except use one teaspoonful of sugar 
to each cup of flour. • 

Corn Griddle Cakes 



Class Rule 
i c milk 

i tp baking powder 
i tp sugar 



i tp salt 

1 tp egg (well beaten) 



i c com meal 

i c boiling water 

} tb flour 
Work to be done: 

Pour the boiling water on the commeal and other dry ingredients, 
except the baking powder and flour, stir and let cool, then stir in the egg, 
and add milk, flour, and baking powder. 



Lesson XLm 



Graham Muffins 
Materials used: 

Class Rule 
I c Graham flour | egg 

i tb butter 

J tp baking 

powder 



Home Rule 
1 c Graham flour 1 egg 



1 c white flour 
i c sugar 
1 tp salt 
1 c milk 



1 tb melted 

butter 
4 tp baking 

powder 



i c white flour 
^ tb sugar 

1 tp salt 

2 tb milk 
Utensils needed: 
2 bowls tablespoon 
flour sifter teaspoon 
case knife measuring cup 
Work to be done: 

1. Put the oven over the fire to heat. 

2. Sift the white flour. Measure it. 

3. Measure the sugar, salt, and baking powder, and sift 
together with white flour. 



Dover egg beater 
gem pan 



Digitized by 



Google 



120 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

4. Measure the Graham flour and add to the other dry 
ingredients. 

5. Add the milk, beating thoroughly to make a smooth 
batter. 

6. Beat the egg in a bowl. 

7. Add the egg to the batter. 

8. Melt the butter and add to the mixture. 

9. Beat thoroughly. 

10. Heat and butter gem pan. 

11. Turn the mixture into the gem pan. 

12. Bake in a moderate oven about twenty-five minutes. 
Principles: 

Graham flour, though very nutritious, is too sticky to be used 
alone, hence it is combined with white flour. It is coarse 
because it has more of the outer layers of the wheat kernel. 
Because this coarseness gives Graham its pecuUar value as a 
food, the flour should not be sifted, as this would remove 
all of the coarser particles. 

The general proportion of a muffin batter is one part liquid 
to 1| parts flour. This makes a batter of such thickness that 
when poured from the spoon, it breaks. Such a batter is known 
as a drop batter. 
Serving: 

As soon as done, remove to a plate or fancy dish on which a 
folded or fringed napkin is placed. Muffins are properly 
served at breakfast or at luncheon. When eaten they are 
broken apart and buttered. 
Table manners: 

Rule : Never leave the table without asking to he excused. 

This rule appUes not only when guests are present, but in 
the privacy of one's family. This habit of showing courtesy 
at all times to one's intimates as well as to strangers is a mark 
of good breeding. 
Cleaning up: 

1. Put the gem pans to soak in cold water. 



Digitized by 



Google 



BATTERS 



121 



2. Scour pan with sapolio or cleanser to remove burnt spots 
and discolorations. 
What has been learned: 

1. Graham flour cannot be used alone, as it is too sticky. 

2. A drop batter is one of such thickness that when poured 
from a spoon, it breaks. 

Additional Recipes 
One-Egg Muffins 



1 c flour 


1 egg 1 tb melted butter 


1 c sweet milk 


2 tb sugar i tp salt 


4 tp baking powder 






Sour-Milk Muffins 


li c sour milk 


1 tp soda i tp salt 


2 c flour 


1 tb melted butter 2 tb sugar 


Sour-Milk Graham MuffiiJs 


IJ c white flour 


} tp soda 1 tb melted butter 


1 c Graham flour 


2 tb sugar i tp salt 


li c sour milk 






Lesson XLIV 




Corn Meal Gems 


Materials used: 




Class Rule 


Home Rule 


1 tb com meal 


i c com meal 


2 tb flour 


1 c flour 


f tp baking powder 


2 tp baking powder 


1 tb sugar 


1 tb sugar 


i tb melted butter 


1 tb melted butter 


^ tp salt 


i tp salt 


Utbmilk 


f c milk 


iegg 


Iegg 


Utensils needed: 




3 bowls 


tablespoon teaspoon 


sifter 


gem pan case knife 




egg beater 




Digitized by CjOOQK 



122 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



Work to be done: 

1. Scald the milk. 

2. Add the butter and salt. 

' 3. Stir in the corn meal; let thicken a few moments; then cool. 

4. Beat the' eggs without separating. 

5. Add the eggs to the mixture. 

6. Sift flour, sugar, and baking powder together, and add to 
the batter. 

7. Turn into a hot, buttered gem pan. 

8. Bake in a hot oven about twenty minutes. 
Principles: 

Com meal is too crumbly to be used alone. Com in drying 
loses so much water by evaporation that it becomes hard and 
flinty. By scalding the corn meal, the starch cells are broken so 
that they absorb the liquid, causing them to swell. Thus the 
starch cells are prepared to be acted upon by the digestive juice. 
Serving: 

Corn meal gems are served the same as muflSns. 
Table manners: 

Rule: If not certain just how a given dish is to be eaten, 
glance at the hostesSy and do the same as she does. 
Cleaning up: 

1. Soak the dish in which com meal was scalded with cold 
water. Why? 
What has been learned: 

1. Corn meal cannot be used alone because it is too crumbly. 

2. Com meal should be scalded in order to break the starch 
cells. 

Additional Recipes 



Golden Corn Cake 
i c com meal i c sugar i tp salt 

IJ c flour 2J tp baking powder 1 c milk 

Rich Corn Cake 
1 c corn meal 4 tp baking powder J tp salt 
1 c white flour i c sugar } c milk 



1 egg 

IJ tb melted fat 



2 eggs 

i c melted butter 



Digitized by 



Google 





BATTERS 


1 




Lesson XLV 






Twin Mountain Muffins 


Materials used: 






Class Rule Home Rule 


2 tp sugar 


^ c flour i c sugar 


2 c flour 


2 tp butter 


i tp baking J c butter 


3 tp baking 


iegg 


powder 1 egg 


powder 


2 tb milk 


f c milk 




Utensfls needed 


: 




3 bowls 


tablespoon 


egg beater 


wooden spoon 


wire whisk 


measuring cup 


with slits 


sifter 


gem pan 



123 




teaspoon 
Work to be done: 

1. Sift the flour. 

2. Measure out all the 
dry ingredients, mix, and 
sift together. 

3. Break the egg. Sep- 
arate the white and yolk. 

4. Measure out butter 
into an earthen bowl. ^'«- S3.-Creaming Butter 

5. Work butter with a wooden spoon until it is soft and 
creamy. 

6. Add sugar and cream butter and sugar together. 

7. Beat the yolk until thick and light colored. 

8. Add it to the butter and sugar and mix thoroughly. 

9. Measure out the milk in the bowl in which the yolks were 
beaten. Add a little of the milk to the above mixture, then a 
little of the flour, and continue until all the milk and flour have 
been incorporated into the batter. 

10. Beat the mixture thoroughly. 

1 1. Beat the whites of the egg with a wire whisk. 

12. Fold it carefully into the mixture, by cutting down to 



Digitized by 



Google 



124 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



the bottom of the dish with the spoon, bringing it to the top 
and folding over the mixture thus brought to the top. 

13. Grease gem pan and sprinkle with flour. 

14. Pour in batter and bake in a moderate oven for about 
twenty minutes, or until they are a beautiful golden brown. 
Principles: 

Before the other ingredients are added, the butter and sugar 
must be creamed until they become of a semi-liquid consistency 
in order to make the muffins fine-grained and light. For the 
same reason, all the ingredients except the egg white must be 
thoroughly beaten. 

In this muflSn, two leavening agents are used: (1) The gas 
formed by the addition of liquid to the baking powder; (2) the 

air which is incorpor- 
ated into the beaten egg 
white. Why then should 
the egg white be folded in? 
Sprinkling the greased 
pan with flour gives a 
glazed surface to the 
muffin. 

Twin Mountain Muf- 
FiG. 54.- Muffins ^^ ^^^ ^^ ^^^^^^ j^^ 

luncheon or for breakfast. They may take the place of cake; 
they are, in fact, a sort of small cake. 
Table manners: 

Rule : Only the tips of the fingers, one hand at a time, should 
be dipped in the finger bowl. 
What has been learned: 

1. A thorough creaming of butter insures fine grain in muffins. 

2. The batter must be thoroughly beaten to insure lightness 
and fine grain. 

3. Less baking powder should be added when whites of eggs 
are used. 

4. Greasing and flouring tins gives a glazed surface. 




Digitized by 



Google 



CAKES 



Lesson XLVI 



Plain Cake 



Home Rule 
i c butter 
^ c milk 
I c sugar 
li c flour 
1 or 2 eggs 
^ tp flavoring 
1 tp baking powder 
I tp salt 



Materials used: 
Class Rtile 

1 tp butter 

I tp baking powder 

1 tb sugar 

2i tb flour 

1 tp egg 

3 drops of flavoring 

1 tb milk 

pinch of salt 
Utensils needed: 

Large bowl 

small bowl 

Dover egg beater 

wooden spoon 
Work to be done: 

1. Put oven on to heat. 

2. Cream the butter as directed in Lesson XLV. 

3. Add the sugar gradually and cream it with the butter till 
the sugar has dissolved. 

4. Beat the egg. 

5. Add the beaten egg to the creamed sugar and stir 
vigorously. 

6. Sift all dry ingredients. 

7. Add the dry ingredients alternately with the milk, stirring 
constantly. 

8. Grease the tin well by brushing it with soft lard or melted 
butter. 



Fig. 55.— Cake Rack 



sieve 



spoons 
cake tin 
cake rack 
measuring cup 



125 



Digitized by 



Google 



126 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

9. Fill the tin about two-thirds full of the batter, drawing the 
mixture away from the center toward the corners or edges of the 
tin. 

10. To test the oven, place a piece of white paper in it. If 
this paper turns a rich brown in five minutes, the oven is right 
for the cake. 

11. Place cake on the bottom grate of the oven. 

12. When the cake has risen and bubbles and brown spots r 
begin to appear, very carefully move it to the upper grate. 




Fig. 56 
Cake Out of Tin Testing with Straw Batter in Tin 

13. When the cake has browned all over the top, and has 
shrunk from the sides of the pan and settled, and no batter 
sticks to a straw pushed into it, carefully remove it from the 
oven. At this stage it should spring back when touched 
lightly with the finger. 

14. As soon as the cake is taken from the oven invert 
the tin. 

15. If the cake sticks, lay a damp cloth on the bottom of the 
inverted tin. 

16. Place cake on a rack and let air circulate around it. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CAKES 127 

Principles: 

1. The method of mixing the ingredients, which is called the 
butter-cake method, gives a fine grained textm^ to the cake. 

2. Because a leavening agent, in this case baking powder, 
is used, a gas will be given off, which will make the cake rise. 
So in order that the cake shall not run over the top of the tin, 
the tin should be filled only about two-thirds full. 

3. The batter which is in contact with the tin is exposed to 
the greatest heat, therefore it cooks more quickly than that 
in the center, and the center, or middle part, has a chance to 
rise more. Hence, the batter at the beginning should be drawn 
away from the center toward the edges of the tin in order that 
the cake may be even on the top when done. 

4. Because the cake is made with a thin batter, it needs a 
very hot oven, or it will run over. 

5. The cake is placed on the bottom grate first that the 
bottom may start to bake and that the top crust may not be 
formed before the batter has become light. 

6. The cake is raised to the top of the oven so that the top 
may be baked and browned and the batter may not run over. 
Serving: 

1. Cakes are a composite food, that is, they contain both 
tissue-building and heat and energy-giving materials, and so 
they are a good food if properly served. They should be one of 
the important parts of a meal and not be served merely because 
of their pleasant flavor. 

2. This cake may be served at luncheon or at a simple dinner 
with coffee, cooked or fresh fruit, and frozen dessert. 

Table service: 

Any hot beverage must be placed at the right of each guest. 
The handles of the cups should be at right angles to the edge 
of the table. 
Cleaning up: 

1. Like other batter dishes, cake dishes should be soaked in 
cold or luke-warm water before being washed. 



Digitized by 



Google 



128 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



What has been learned: 

1. How to mix ingredients by the butter-cake method. 

2. Much creaming and beating make cakes fine grained. 

3. That cake tins should be only about two-thirds full of 
batter. 

4. That batter should be drawn toward the outside away from 
the center of cake tins. 

5. How to test the oven for baking butter cake. 

6. That cake should first be placed on the bottom grate of 
the oven. 

7. That cake should be moved carefully when raising it 
to top grate. 

8. How to test when cake is done. 

9. How to remove cake from tin. 

10. How to care for freshly baked cake. 



Supplementary Recipes 





Devil's 


Food 




Materials used : 








Class Rule 


Home Rule 


i tb butter 


J tp baking 


1 c butter 


4 tp baking 


3i tb sugar 


powder 


2 c sugar 


powder 


J egg yolk 


i egg white 


4 egg yolks 


4 egg whites 


li tb milk 


i square of 


1 c milk 


2 squares of 


4 tb flour 


chocolate 


2i c flour 


chocolate 



Use butter-cake method of combining; melt the chocolate in a cup over 
hot water before using it and add it to the batter just before the beaten 
egg whites. The whites should be folded in the last thing, only the beaten 
yolks being mixed with the creamed butter and sugar. 

One Egg Cake 
Materials used: 

Class Rule 
i tb butter IJ tb milk i c butter 

li tb sugar 4 tb flour J c sugar 

J of one egg 1 tp baking powder 1 egg 
Combine by butter-cake method. 



Home Rule 

J c milk 

li c flour 

2i tp baking powder 



Digitized by 



Google 



CAKES 



129 



Lesson XLVn 
Plain Boiled Frosting (without Egg) 



Home Rule 
1 c sugar flavoring 

i c water 

knife spoons large bowl 



Materials used: 

Class Rule 

i c sugar flavoring 

2 tb water 
Utensils needed: 

Saucepan measuring cup 
Work to be done: 

1. Put sugar and water into a saucepan. 

2. Put saucepan over fire and boil without stirring till the 
sytup forms hairs when it is dropped from the spoon into the 
saucepan, or till the syrup forms a soft ball when dropped into 
cold water. 

3. Remove saucepan from stove and let the sjTup cool till 
it does not stick 
to the finger if 
touched. 

4. Add a few 
drops of flavoring 
and beat the syrup 
until it is of the 
right consistency 
to spread. 

5. Pour the 
frosting onto cake. 

6. Spread the frosting carefully, evenly, and quickly over 
the cake with a knife. 

7. If the frosting hardens while being beaten, melt it again 
by setting the saucepan into a bowl of hot water and stirring. 
Principles: 

1. The syrup should not be stirred while cooking or it will 
be grained. In stirring, some of the syrup is splashed up onto 




Fia. 57.— Testing the Frosting 



Digitized by 



Google 



130 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

the sides of the pan, where it becomes hard. If one of these Uttle 
hard particles of sugar gets into the syrup, the whole mass will 
become grainy. 
Cleaning up: 

What kind of water should be used for cleaning sugary 
dishes? 
What has been learned: 

1. Syrup for frosting should not be stirred while boiling. 

2. Stirring syrup makes it grainy. 

3. Frosting on cake should be spread quickly. 

Lesson XLVm 

White Mountain Cream 

Materials used: 

Class Rule Home Rule 

4 tb sugar 1 c sugar 

li tb boiling water i c boiling water 

i egg white 1 egg white 

J tp vanilla 1 tp vanilla 

a few drops of lemon juice i tb lemon juice 

Utensils needed: 

Saucepan knife egg whip 

spoons measuring cup large plate or platter 

Work to be done: 

1. Put sugar and water into saucepan and boil as in Lesson 
XLVII. 

2. Put egg white on plate or platter and beat it stiff with 
with the egg whip. 

3. When the syrup hairs or forms a soft ball in cold water, 
remove it from the fire and pour it in a thin stream onto the 
beaten egg white, beating all the time until the frosting becomes 
the right consistency. 

4. Add the flavoring and pour frosting over cake. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CAKES 



131 



Principles: 

The beating of the egg makes it light and fluffy; when the 
cooked syrup is poured onto the egg, the egg is cooked, and 
the syrup makes the whole 
mixture harden when it 
becomes cold. 

Egg white contains a 
great deal of tissue-building 
material, as has already been 
learned. The combining of 
the egg white and the sugar 
makes a very rich mixture, 
which adds much to the 
food value of the cake upon 
which it is spread. 
Cleaning up: 

Should the dish used for 
the egg be soaked in the 
same kind of water that is 
used for the syrup pan? 
What has been learned: 

1. Tissue-building, and heat and energy-giving foods are 
combined in making frosting. 

2. The hot syrup cooks the egg white and makes the 
frosting hard. 

Additional Recipes 

Cold Cream Frosting 

Moisten powdered sugar and sweet cream, melt over hot water, and 
spread on csike. 

Uncooked Frosting With Egg White 

White of egg i tp vanilla 

2 tp cold water f c powdered sugar 

Beat the egg white till stiff, add water and sugar gradually, beat thor- 
oughly, add flavoring, and spread on cake. 




Fig. 58. — Pouring Syrup onto 
Egg White 



Digitized by 



Google 



132 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Yellow Frosting (Boiled) 
1 c sugar 1 egg yolk i c water 

Boil the sugar and water till it hairs or forms a soft ball in cold water. 
Add the syrup gradually to the beaten egg yolk; beat till of the right 
consistency for spreading. 

The whole egg may be used with 2 c sugar. 

Simple Uncooked Frosting 
Stir together equal parts of unbeaten egg whites and water; stir stiff 
with powdered sugar, flavor, and spread on the cake. 

Lesson XLIX 

Batters (Reading) 

In the southern states griddle cakes are always spoken of as 
"batter cakes." In Pennsylvania and much of that region they 
are called "hot cakes," while the old Yankee term for them is 
"pancakes." What boy has not been coaxed out of bed on a 
cold winter morning with the alluring announcement, "There 
are buckwheat cakes and maple syrup for breakfast," and what 
girl has not joined her brother in the stowing away of at least a 
half dozen delicately browned "buckwheats" before racing oflf 
to school? While much is said about the unhealthiness of buck- 
wheat cakes and of batter cakes generally they are usually 
easily digested by the boy or girl who nms but to play or walk 
after eating them. 

Many old-fashioned cooks still maintain that really good 
batters cannot be made without a great many eggs. But the 
high prices of eggs have made many a cook resort to substi- 
tutes when making cake and other batters. Baking powder 
is the most popular substitute, and a very light batter can be 
made with it, but it will not supply the flavor, richness or color 
that eggs will supply. Bakers often use a material called 
"egg color" which gives the yellow color produced by eggs 
and also some slight element of the same flavor, but it adds 
little or nothing to the richness of the batter and the iminitiated 



Digitized by 



Google 



CAKES 133 

are led by it to wonder how a cake can be so yellow and at the 
same time so tasteless. 

Bakers also use desiccated eggs to a very great extent. 
These are better than the ''egg color" and really impart the 
substance of the egg which has been dried and reduced to a 
powder. If made by a reliable firm using none but fresh eggs, 
the desiccated form is of genuine value and much cheaper 
than new-laid eggs. 

The art of making a good batter lies largely in the beating, 
which should be done in such a manner that the air will be 
beaten into the substance. 

For Review 

Definition of Batters 

A batter, which really means something battered or beaten, 
as used in cooking means a mixture of some starchy substance, 
such as flour or meal, and some Uquid, such as water, milk, or 
molasses, in such proportions that the mixture can be beaten. 

A batter may be either thin or thick. 

A pour batter, the thinnest batter we have, is one that can 
be poured from a dish without breaking. 

A drop batter is one that breaks when poured from a dish, 
but is not thick enough to handle. 

Table of Proportions of Ingredients 

Pour batter — 1 c liquid to 1 c dry matter. 
Drop batter — 1 c liquid to 2 c dry matter. 

Modification of Batters 

The liquid and flour or meal are often combined with other 
ingredients, called leavening agents, shortening and flavoring. 
Leavening agents, air, steam and gas, are added to make the 
batter light and porous so that it is more easily digested. Short- 



Digitized by 



Google 



134 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

ening agents, eggs, butter, lard, meat drippings, etc., are 
added to make the mixture tender. For flavor, seasonings, 
eggs, spices, salt, and extracts are added. To get different 
textures, different methods of combining the ingredients are 
used. The difference in the kind of liquid and the grades 
and kinds of meal or flour also make a difference in the batter. 

Methods of Combining Ingredients 

1. Batter method: 

Mix and sift all dry ingredients. Mix egg and milk, if egg 
is used; having egg beaten together first, and add the liquid 
gradually to the flour, stirring constantly, but add liquid fast 
enough so that the batter will not become too stiff in the center. 
Add the melted shortening last. 

2. Butter cake method: 

Cream the shortening, but do not heat it, by mixing it with 
a wooden spoon, until it is soft and creamy. Then add the 
sugar gradually and beat thoroughly till there results a smooth, 
creamy mixture and the sugar is dissolved. If eggs are to be 
added whole, beat them and put them in next. If they are 
to be separated, beat the yolks and' add them now. Then add 
the flour and milk alternately, reserving the baking powder 
for the last of the flour. Add salt and flavoring, and if whites 
have been separated, cut and fold them in, after stiffly beating. 
General rules: 

All batters should be salted. 

Always have all ingredients and utensils ready before starting 
to make anything. 
Griddle cakes: 

For griddle cakes, an iron griddle is preferable unless no 
grease is desired; aluminum and soapstone griddles need no 
greasing. For greasing a griddle, pork fat or beef suet is 
preferable, as they do not bum readily or soak into the cakes. 
When a cake is put on the griddle, if large bubbles begin to 
rise at once to the upper side of the cake, the griddle is too hot; 



Digitized by 



Google 



CAKES 135 

if the upper side of the cake begins to stiflFen before the under 
side is browned, the griddle is not hot enough. 
Leavening of batters : 

In making omelet, what is done to make it pufify and light? 
How are the yolks and water added to the whites? What 
leavening agent is used in making omelet? 

When water is heated it will expand, or spread out, into 
several times its volume, forming steam. Use is made of this 
in the leavening of batter for certain things. What made the 
pop-over light? What, then, was the leavening agent used 
for pop-overs? What leavening agent was used in the bread 
griddle cakes? What other substance is used to form a gas 
which acts as a leavening agent? What is always used as a 
leavening agent when sour milk is used? Why? What are 
four leavening agents that have been used in the lessons so far? 
Materials for cakes: 

For cakes only the very best of materials should be used; 
the best flour, fresh eggs, fresh butter, fresh fruits and good 
flavoring. Pastry flour, which contains more starch than 
bread flour, is best suited for cake making; when bread flour 
is used instead of pastry flour, the amount of flour should be 
diminished 2 tb for each cup. 

All spices should be sifted with the flour; coarse granulated 
sugar makes a coarse grained cake; powdered sugar makes dry, 
solid cake; hence fine granulated sugar is better suited for cake 
making. 
Baking of cake: 

When cake is put into the oven, if it rises too fast or contains 
too much flour, it will crack. Cake which has too much baking 
powder in it, or is not beaten enough, or is baked in too hot 
an oven, is coarse in texture. There are four periods for the 
baking of cake: 

1. Cake rises. 

2. Small bubbles appear and cake browns in spots. 

3. Cake browns all over. 



Digitized by 



Google 



136 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

4. Cake shrinks from sides of the pan and settles. 

If a cake is to be moved, this should be done in the first or 
early part of the second period. After a cake has risen enough, 
but before the cell walls have been cooked enough to make 
them solid, a slight jar will break down the cell walls and make 
the cake fall. This is because there is no more gas to make 
more cells, or bubbles. 
Shortening: 

What is shortening? What is its use in batter? The sub- 
stances which are supposed to have the greatest shortening 
property are lard and cottolene. They are less expensive than 
butter, but have not so good a flavor. Butter is expensive, 
but its good flavor makes it very desirable. Because butter is 
not pure fat, but contains water and some milk, very often 
recipes calling for butter to be used as the shortening also call 
for a little soda. The milk that is in the butter is sour, and so 
contains acid; the soda will overcome the acid of the milk. 
Sometimes butter becomes slightly rancid; in which case it 
may be made usable for some purposes by heating it with 
water, then chilling it and removing the cake of fat which is 
formed. If further treatment is necessary, the fat may be 
heated with charcoal. Meat drippings may be treated in the 
same way. Shortenings with strong flavors may be used in 
spice-cakes, fruit cakes, and molasses cakes, where their flavor 
will not be noticeable. 
Flavoring used in cakes: 

Among the most common flavorings are the extracts which 
are used in cakes and candy. These extracts, lemon, vanilla, 
orange, peach, rose and almond are made from the flower, 
fruit or seed from which they get their name. Some other 
extracts, such as banana and strawberry, are made from chem- 
icals. 

Besides these extracts, fruit juices, such as lemon juice 
and orange juice, are often used for flavoring. But perhaps 
the first flavorings used were the spices. It is true that all 



Digitized by 



Google 



BISCUITS 



137 



these flavorings have no real food value, but because they are 
so pleasing to the taste they stimulate digestion, and so are 
important in the diet. The spices are all plant products, the 
most common of which are ginger, all-spice, clove, cinnamon? 
and nutmeg. 

Ginger is usually sold in a powdered form, but it is really 
the root of a plant. 

All-spice, so called, because it tastes like a mixture of all 
the other spices, is the cheapest of all the spices. 

Cloves, used either whole or ground (ground in cakes), are 
the partly opened bud of a 
plant. 

Cinnamon is the bark of 
a tree. It may be used in 
long stick-like form. 

The nutmeg is the nut of 
a peach-like tree. The outer 
pulp is not used. 

Ahnost all of the spices Fig. 59.- A Bundle of Cinnamon 

are imported from countries having a tropical climate. 




Lesson l# 



Drop Biscuit 



Materials used: 

Class Rule 
J c flour 

1 tp baking powder 
i tb fat 

7 tb milk 
Utensils needed: 

2 bowls 
sieve 
spoons 



Home Rule 
2 c flour 

4 tp baking powder 
2 tb fat 
If c milk 



2 case knives 
2 measuring cups 
rolling pin 



biscuit cutter 
molding board 
baking tins 



Digitized by 



Google 



138 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



Work to be done: 

1. Put the oven on to heat. 

2. Sift all dry ingredients. 

3. Put fat, or shortening, into measured dry ingredients. 

4. With two case knives, cut the fat into the dry mixture 
till the whole mixture is of a mealy consistency. 

5. Add the milk slowly , 
cutting the mass instead 
of stirring it. 

6. Sift a little flour 
onto the baking tin, then 
shake oflF all that does 
not stick. 

7. Drop the biscuit 
mixture from the end of 
a knife in small piles onto 
the floured tin. 

8. Place the pan on the 
bottom grate in a hot 
oven. 

9. When the biscuits 
have risen and browned 

slightly on the bottom, raise them to the top grate that they 
may harden on top. 

10. When well browned remove from oven. 
Principles: 

1. This mixture is thicker than a batter, and is known as a 
soft dough. 

2. The shortening is added by cutting it in with a knife, 
because all the ingredients of dough should be kept as cold as 
possible in order that the biscuit may be tender and the dough 
be less sticky, and so easier to handle. If the shortening were 
kneaded in with the hands the mixture would be warmer. 

3. The baking powder acts the same here as it did with the 
batter. What is its use? 




Fig. 60. — Dropping Biscuit Dough 
onto Tin 



Digitized by 



Google 



BISCUITS 139 

Serving: 

1. Serve the biscuit while hot. 

2. Serve the biscuit with butter at breakfast, luncheon, or 
dinner. 

3. Serve with stew at dinner. 
Table manners: 

Rule : Biscuit should be broken apart, not cut. 
Cleaning up: 

1. What kind of water should be used for rinsing batter 
dishes? Should dough dishes be treated the same or not? Why? 
What has been learned: 

1. To cut shortening into dry ingredients. 

2. That a soft dough is a mixture thicker than a batter. 

3. To keep all ingredients for biscuit cold. 

Lesson LI 

Baking Powder Biscuit 
Materials used: 

Class Rule Home Rule 

^ c flour i tb lard 2 c flour 2 tb lard 

1 tp baking j tp salt 4 tp baking f tp salt 

powder a little milk powder a little milk 

Utensils needed: 

Bowls spoons measuring cup molding board 

sieve 2 knives biscuit cutter baking tin 

Work to be done: ><^^ 

1. Put on oven to heat. JP^ISmll^ 

2. Sift all dry ingredients. j(|_j||^^ 

3. Cut in the fat as directed for drop biscuit. H Hpii J P^ 

4. Add just enough milk to make the dough yiq, 61 — 
the right consistency to handle. Biscuit Cutter 

5. Sift a little flour onto the molding board. 

6. Turn the dough onto the floured board and work it 
quickly with the hands. 



Digitized by 



Google 



140 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

7. Pat the dough down to about one-half inch in thickness. 

8. Dip the biscuit cutter into flour and then cut out the 
biscuit. 

9. Place biscuit in floured pan and bake as directed for drop 
biscuit. 

Principles : 

1. This dough is still stiflFer than the drop biscuit dough; 
it is stiff enough to be handled, but it should be touched as 
little as possible in order that it may be tender. 

2. Biscuit should be baked at once before the baking powder 
has given off all its leavening power and the dough becomes solid. 

3. There should be as little flour on the board as it is possible 
to have and still handle the dough. 

4. Flour should not be left on the board and there should 
be none sticking to the outside of the biscuit, as it does not bake, 
besides making the baked biscuit very unattractive. 
Serving: 

Serve same as drop biscuit. 
Cleaning up: 

1. What utensils have been used for the first time? 

2. Be siu'e to wash the molding board very carefully with 
soapy water, then rinse it thoroughly, and dry it. 

3. Do not let any flour fall onto the floor and be sure that 
none is left about stove or desk. 

What has been learned: 

1. To knead biscuit dough as little as possible. 

2. To use as little floiu* as possible on molding board. 

3. Not to let flour stick to outside of biscuits. 

Supplementary Recipes 

Soda Biscuit 
Materials used: 

Class Rule Home Rule 

i c sour milk i c flour 1 c sour milk 2 c flour 

^ tp soda sifted \ tp salt i tp soda with } tp salt 

with 2 tb flour i tp baking J c flour 3 tp baking 

J tp fat powder 2 tp fat powder 

Digitized by LjOOQIC 



FRUIT ROLLS 



141 



Cream Scones 
Materials used: 

Class Rule 
i c flour 

i tp baking powder 
i tp sugar 
I A tp salt 

i tb butter 

iegg 

I tb cream 



Home Rule 
2 c flour 

4 tp baking powder 
2 tp sugar 
} tp salt 
4 tb butter 
2 eggs 
i c cream 



Mix and sift dry ingredients. Cut in butter, add eggs, well beaten, 
and cream. Toss on a floured board, pat and roll to } inch thickness. 
Cut in squares, brush with egg white, sprinkle with sugar, and bake in a hot 
oven 15 minutes. 

Lesson LII 



Fruit Rolls 
Materials used: 

Class Rule 
i c flour 

1 tp baking powder 
J tp salt 

1 tb sugar 
i tb butter 

2 tb milk or water 
1| tb English currants or 

raisins 
Utensils needed: 
Rolling pin 

3 bowls 
2 measuring cups 

Work to be done: 

1. Put oven on to heat. 

2. If raisins are to be used, put them in the strainer and set 
that into a large bowl containing warm water. Wash the 
raisins and then lift the strainer out of the bowl. 

3. If currants are to be used, first dip them in flour, then wash 
them in warm water the same as the raisins. 





Home Rule 




2 c flour 




4 tp baking-powder 




i tp salt 




2 tb sugar 




2 tb butter 




i c milk or water 


s or 


i c English currants or 




raisins 


spoons 


sieve 


knives 


molding board 



Digitized by 



Google 



142 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



4. 

bowl 

5. 

6. 

7. 



Sift all dry ingredients, except the sugar, into the mixing 



Cut in shortening as for biscuit. 

Add the liquid the same as for baking powder biscuit. 

Toss onto the floured mixing board, work quickly, only 
enough so that the dough can be rolled. 

8. Roll till one-fourth of an inch thick, bearing down very 
lightly on the rolling pin. 




Fig. 62.— Roll Making 

9. Brush the rolled dough with melted butter. 

10. Sprinkle dough with fruit and sugar, and roll it like a 
jelly cake. 

11. Cut roll into pieces about three-fourths of an inch long 
and bake on a floured tin the same as biscuit. 

Principles: 

1. Biscuit dough may be combined with fruit and sugar to 
make a good substitute for cake or other sweet batters. 
Serving: 

Place fruit rolls on a china plate and serve hot at luncheon. 
They are eaten with or without butter. 
What has been learned: 

1. To roll biscuit dough. 

2. To wash currants, raisins, or other dried fruit. 



Digitized by 



Google - 





SHORTCAKE 




Lesson Lm 




Shortcake 


Materials used: 




Class Rule 


Home Rule 


^ c flour 


2 c flour 


1 tp baking powder 


4 tp baking powder 


i tb sugar 


2 tb sugar 


A tp salt 


f tp salt 


1 tb shortening 


i c shortening 


1 tb milk 


f c milk 


Utensils needed: 




2 bowls 


baking tin knives 


spoons 


molding board sieve 


measuring cups 




Work to be done: 




1. Put oven on to heat. 


2. Measure and sift all dry ingredients. 



143 




Fig. 63.— Placing Second 
Paxt on First 



Fig. 64. — Separating Layers 

/Google 



Digitized by ^ 



144 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 




3. Cut shortening into dry ingredients. 

4. Add milk and cut it in. 
6. Toss dough to floured board and work carefully. 

6. Divide dough into two equal parts. 

7. Shape one part to fit the floured shallow pan. 

8. Brush the top of 
the dough in the pan with 
melted butter. 

9. Shape second part 
of dough and place it on 
the first. 

10. Bake in a hot oven 
twenty minutes like 
biscuit dough. 

11. While the crust is 
Fig. 65.-.Part with IVuit on it bakmg, if fresh fruit is to 

be used, wash it, crush it, and sweeten it. If cooked fruit is to 
be used, get it ready as necessary. 

12. Take crust from oven when browned and baked. 

13. Split cake, where two layers join, by breaking it apart 
carefully with a fork. 

14. Put crushed sweetened or cooked fruit on the bottom 
part. 

15. Place top back on bottom. 

16. Place more fruit on top. 

17. If desired, the dough may all be baked in one piece, 
then when the cake is split, the two parts should be buttered 
before fruit is placed on them. 

Principles: 

1. Shortcake dough is combined the same as biscuit dough 
and contairis the same materials, but because it contains more 
shortening it is called shortcake. 

2. Shortcake, because of the large amount of fat used in it, 
is a rather rich dish, and so should not be served with other 
rich foods. 



Digitized by 



Google 



SHORTCAKE 



145 



3. Since shortcake dough must be handled a little, the 
ingredients should be kept as cold as possible, that the dough 
may be less sticky and so easier to handle. 

4. Cutting the layers of cake apart makes the cake heavy, so 
they should be broken apart. 

5. Buttering between the layers before baking them makes it 
easier to separate them when baked. 

6. Is short cake a composite dish? 

7. What value does the fruit add to the cake? 
Serving: 

1. Shortcake may be served either on individual plates or it 
may be cut and served at the table. In the latter case, the 




Fig. 66.— The Finished Cake 



Fig. 67. — Hostess Serving from 
Large Plate 



whole cake should be removed from the baking tin and placed 
on a large plate or platter. The individual plates should be 
placed at the left of the hostess' place, and she may cut and 
serve the pieces of cake to each person. 

2. Serve shortcake with or without cream. 

3. Whipped cream is especially nice to serve with shortcake. 

4. Serve shortcake at luncheon or at a light dinner as a dessert 
dish. 

Table manners: 

Rule : Shortcake should be eaten with the fork. 
Cleaning up: 

1. Should doughy dishes be put into the hot, soapy dishwater? 



Digitized by 



Google 



146 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

2. How should the molding board be treated? 

3. Do not neglect the towels and dish cloth. 
What has been learned: 

1. To mix shortcake dough. 

2. To use the same caution as in mixing biscuit dough. 

3. To separate layers of crust with a fork instead of by 
cutting. 

4. To use fresh or cooked fruit for shortcake. 

Additional Recipes 

Short Cake, No. 1 

One pint flour, one-half teaspoon salt, two teaspoons, baking powder, 
sifted together four times, one-quarter cup butter rubbed in, one egg beaten 
and mixed with one scant cup milk. Spread on a biscuit tin and bake in 
quick oven. Pull apart after cooling five minutes, spread with softened 
butter and fill with fruit. 

Short Cake, No. 2 

One quart flour, one teaspoon salt, four tablespoons baking powder, 
sifted together four times, rub in one-half cup butter and lard and one- 
quarter cup milk. Bake in two long biscuit tins, making off in squares 
before baking. Bake in a very quick oven till a good brown. Use a 
generous quart of fruit for each layer, dust thick with powdered sugar. 
Pile whipped cream on the top layer just before serving. If it is wanted 
very, crisp and short, Uke pastry, the amount of shortening is doubled and 
water used to mix rather stiffer than before. All butter makes it more 
crisp than lard. 

Old Fashioned Short Cake 

Take one large cup of rich sour cream, one-half teaspoon salt and the 
same of soda sifted four times with one pint flour, mix, and beat well for 
two minutes. Take a twelve-inch frying pan, have it buttered and hissing 
hot, spread in the short cake, cover with a flat tin and set over hot griddle. 
Do not bum; turn in less than ten minutes; when done, break in pieces 
and send to table folded in napkin. 



Digitized by 



Google 



PASTRY 







Lesson LIV 










Plain Pastry 






Materials used: 










Class Rule 


Home Rule 




J c flour 


salt 


li e flour 




i tp salt 


li tb fat 


cold water ^ to i c shortening 


cold water 


Utensils needed 










Bowl 




tablespoon 


molding board 


sifter 




teaspoon 


pie tin 




2 knives 




rolling pin 


fork 





measunng cup 
Work to be done: 

1. Sift the flour. 

2. Measure the floiu* and salt and mix by sifting into a bowl. 

3. Cut the fat into the 
flour by means of two 
caseknives. Continue 
until the mixtiu'e has the 
appearance of meal, and 
each little particle of fat 
has a coating of flour. 

4. Add enough cold 
water, using the caseknife 
to mix the flour and water 
until a paste is formed 
that does not crumble, Fio. 68.-Cutting Fat into Flour 

but clings together without sticking to the bowl or knife. 

5. By means of a knife, make the paste into a ball, rolling 
it along the sides of the bowl, thus taking up every particle of 
flour and dough. 

147 




Digitized by 



Google 



148 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



6. Lightly dredge the molding board with flour 

7. Turn the paste out, pat into a rectangular shape with 
the rolling pin, and roll out to a thickness of about I inch, 
always rolling away from you instead of back and forth. If 
the paste has a tendency to stick, dust some more flour on the 
board and rolUng pin, but no more than is absolutely necessary. 




Fig. 69. — Dredging the Moulding Board 

8. Put the paste in the pie tin in such a manner that all air 
is excluded from underneath, or cover the outside of an inverted 
tin, pricking paste with a fork. 

9. Trim ofif the edges. 

10. Bake in a moderate oven until delicately browned. 
Principles: 

The more solid the shortening is, the less flour it will take up. 
For this reason it is very important that all the ingredients 
should be kept as cool as possible. The amount of flour in 
proportion to the shortening is of great importance, for upon 
this, to a great extent, depends the "shortness," or tenderness, 
of the crust. For this reason also, as little flour as possible 
should be used for dredging the board and rolling pin during the 
process of rolling out the paste. 

Just enough water should be used to cause the paste to stick 
together, for the less the amount of water, the more brittle the 
crust will be. 



Digitized by 



Google 



PASTRY 149 

The paste should be put together quickly and handled as 
little as possible. An undue amount of handling results in a 
tough crust. 

Lard makes a light-colored, tender, flaky crust. Cottolene 
makes a crust that is slightly darker. Different kinds of short- 
ening may be combined and give satisfactory results; beef 
suet and butter are a good combination. Butter gives a slight 
flavor. 
What has been learned: 

1. Shortness, or tenderness, of crust is dependent upon: 
(a) Amount of flour used in proportion to amount of shorten- 
ing; (6) amount of water; (c) temperature of ingredients; 
(d) amount of handling; (e) time required to combine the 
ingredients. 

2. The flakiness of the crust depends upon the kind and 
amount of shortening used. 

Additional Recipes 

Pastry 

2 c flour } c butter cold watei* 

2 tb lard J tp salt 

Combine as in the class rule of the first recipe. 

Pastry with Baking Powder 

1} c flour i tp salt cold water 

J to } c shortening i tp baking powder 

Combine as in the class rule of the first recipe. 

Lesson LV 

Peach or Apple Bib 

Materials used: 

Pie crust: 

i e flour ^ tb butter salt 

I tb lard white of one egg cold water 

Filling: Canned fruit 



Digitized by 



Google 



150 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



Utensits needed: 

Measuring cup teaspoon rolling pin 

floiu* sifter case knives molding board 

tablespoon bowls pie tin 

Work to be done: 

1 . Make paste according to directions given in preceding lesson. 

2. Cut paste into two parts. Roll out one part and put it 
in a pie tin, being careful to exclude all air from underneath. 
Rub it over with the white of an egg. 

3. Roll out the other piece of pastry. Gash it in any design 
desired with a knife. 

4. Turn the filling into the pie. Sprinkle a Uttle flour over 
the fruit. 

5. Moisten the edge of the lower layer with cold water. 

6. Place the upper crust in position. 

7. Press the top crust well down over the edge of the second. 

8. Trim off the edges. 

9. Bake in a moderately warm oven until the crust is of a 
delicate brown. 

Principles: 

The thin fruit juice has a tendency to soak into the crust. 

Rubbing the crust over with the white of egg forms a mucilag- 

inous, or sticky, layer through which 

the juice cannot easily penetrate. 

The same purpose is effected by 
sprinkling the fruit with flour, for in 
this manner the juice becomes thick- 
ened and will not so readily soak into 
the crust. Sometimes a little paper 
funnel is inserted through the top 
crust in order to prevent the escape 
of the juice. The soaking is some- 
thing that must be very carefully 

guarded against, for if the juices escape, they will cause the 

under crust to stick to the pie tin, making the pie less attrac- 




FiG. 70. — Funnel Inserted 
into Pie 



Digitized by 



Google 



PASTRY 151 

tive. The escaping juices will cause a disagreeable odor and 
smoke, besides being very difficult to remove from the oven. 

The heat of the oven will cause steam to be generated within 
the pie. Some provision must be made for the escape of the 
steam, for if allowed to remain, the crust will become water- 
soaked and will not bake. For this reason, the top crust must 
be slit with numerous openings. 

The use of part butter gives a flakier crust and a better 
flavored one thau if lard alone is used. 
Serving: 

Pie is served as a dessert for dinner. It is served on a dessert 
plate usually with a piece of cheese, which is commonly sup- 
posed to aid in digestion of the pie, placed at the side. It is 
now quite common also to bring the whole pie to the table. It is 
placed in front of the hostess who cuts and takes out the pieces 
with a pie knife, placing on dessert plates which are at her left. 
Table manners: 

Rule: The fork alone should he used in eating pie. 

In some localities, it was in earlier days a custom to use the 
knife and fork to cut the pie and to use the knife to convey the cut 
portions to the mouth; but this custom is no longer followed. 
Only the fork is used for cutting and conveying to the mouth. 
Cleaning up: 

If any juice does escape, quickly sprinkle the bottom of the 
oven with salt, and the odor and smoke will be prevented. To 
remove the burnt substance, put a newspaper on tte desk or 
table and tip the oven over to one side. If burnt to the pie 
tin, pour boiling water into it, and scour with sapolio. 
What has been learned: 

1. That the escape of fruit juice from the pie can be prevented : 
(a) By rubbing the bottom crust with white of egg. (6) By 
sprinkling flour over fruit, (c) By inserting a paper funnel 
through top crust. 

2. That slits must be made in the top crust to allow the 
steam generated in the baking to escape. 



Digitized by 



Google 



152 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



Additional Recipe 
Apple Pie 



1 tp butter 

1 tp lemon juice 

a few gratings of lemon rind 



4 or 5 sour apples cut up 

i c sugar 

i tp grated nutmeg 

i tp salt 

Line a pie tin with paste. Pare, core, and cut the apples into eighths. 
Fill pie. Mix sugar, nutmeg, salt, and lemon juice and sprinkle over the 
apples. Put dots of butter here and there. Put upper crust on, first 
wetting edges with cold water. Press together and trim. Bake in a 
moderate oven. 



Lesson LVI 



Custard Pie 



Materials used: 

Pie crust: 
} c flour 
I tb lard 
f tb butter 
salt 
water 



Filling: 
7 tb milk 
salt 

1 egg yolk and ^ white 
1 tp sugar 
nutmeg or cinnamon 



Meringue 



i egg white 1 tp sugar 

Utensils needed: 

Bowls rolling pin egg beater 

case knives molding board wire whisk 

flour sifter teaspoon large plate or 

measuring cup tablespoon platter 

Work to be done: 

1. Sift, measure, and mix flour and salt. 

2. Cut the lard into the flour. (See Lesson XLIX.) 

3. Add enough water to make a stiff paste, proceeding 
according to directions given in the lesson upon it. 

4. Dredge board with flom*, turn out paste, pat it into rec- 



Digitized by 



Google 



PASTRY 



163 



1 2 3 



tangular shape, and roll out into a piece about twice as long as 
it is wide. Pat the butter into a square cake and place near 
one end of this rectangle. 

5. Fold the paste over the butter. 
Press the edges together. Fold 1 
over 2 and 3 over 1. Press edges 
together. Turn around toward 
you. Pat the paste into ridges 
with the rolling pin. Fold over again and roll. Repeat two 
times more, being careful not to allow the butter to come out. 

6. Cover the inverted tin, prick, and bake. 

7. Break the egg and separate the yolk and the white. 

8. Beat the white slightly until a spoonful can be held. 
Divide it into two parts, adding half to the yolk in a bowl. 



Fig. 71 




Fig. 72.— Patting Paste into Ridges 

9. Beat white and yolk enough to mix. Add the salt, sugar, 
and milk. Beat. 

10. When the crust is a delicate brown, invert it in the pie 
tin, turn the filling in, sprinkle with nutmeg over top, and bake 
in a slow oven until the custard is done. 

11. Beat the remaining egg on a platter until stiff and dry. 
Add a teaspoon of sugar. Beat until well mixed. 



Digitized by 



Google 



154 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

12. When the custard is firm in the center, remove pie from 
the oven, put the beaten egg white over the top of the pie, 
either spreading it out smoothly with a knife or putting it on 
in fancy shapes if so desired. 

13. Transfer pie to a slow oven and bake until the meringue, 
or egg white, is delicately browned. 

Principles: 

If the butter is added to the flour before the water is added, 
the crust is more tender than if lard alone is used. By putting 
the butter in between layers of paste, pressing together edges 
and patting with the rolling pin, cold air is inclosed between 
layers of paste. When this air encounters the heat of the oven, 
it expands, causing the paste to expand also and giving lightness 
to it. This paste is different from the paste made in the ordi- 
nary way in that the layers are very distinct, making it more 
flaky. 
Serving: 

Custard pie forms the dessert for a dinner. 
Cleaning up: 

Soak all sticky dishes and wash and rinse carefully. 
What has been learned: 

1. That a more tender crust may be made by using part 
butter and part lard. 

2. That a flakier and lighter crust may be made by working 
the butter in after the water has been added. 

3. That a custard pie should be b^^ked in a slow oven. 

4. That a meringue should be baked in a slow oven. 

Additional Recipe 
Cream Pie 

Beat thoroughly together the white of one egg, i c sugar and 1 tb flour; 
then add 1 c rich milk (a part cream) ; bake with a bottom crust, and grate 
nutmeg over the top. 



Digitized by 



Google 



SALADS 

Lesson LVn 

Lettuce and Radish Salad with French Dressing 

Materials used: 

Class Rule Home Rule 

i tp salt i tp salt 

^ tp pepper i tp pepper 

1 J tb olive oil 6 tb olive oil 

1 tb lemon juice or vinegar 2 to 6 tb lemon juice or 
a few grains cayenne, pap- vinegar 

rika or black pepper a few grains of cayenne, 

2 or 3 leaves of lettuce paprika or black pepper 
4 radishes desired quantity of lettuce 

a dozen radishes 
Utensils needed: 

Large bowl or pan in which to cleanse vegetables 

towels in which to dry vegetables 

paring knife 

bowl in which to mix dressing 

utensils for measuring ingredients 

2 forks with which to mix salad 
Work to be done: 

1. Separate the lettuce by removing the leaves from the 
outer stalk. 

2. Discard outer injured leaves. 

3. Wash each leaf and examine it separately to see that no 
insects remain on it. 

4. Crisp the leaves, if necessary, in cold water. 

5. Dry them thoroughly between the towels. 

6. T^ash the radishes and scrape off the soil and rootlets. 

155 



Digitized by 



Google 



156 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



7. Cut two of the radishes into thin slices and dry with 
the lettuce. 

8. Cut the leaves off from the other two, leaving about one- 
half inch of the stalk. Be sure no dirt is left among the stalks. 

9. Make these into "radish roses." See Lesson XII. 

French Dressing 

^ 1. Mix the salt and pepper in the bowl. 

2. Add the oil and mix well. 

3. Add the vinegar and lemon juice, a drop at a time, beating 

thoroughly all the 
time. 

4. Beat until the 
mixture is quite 
thickened and well 
mixed. 

5. Place the let- 
tuce in the dish 
from which the salad 
is to be served, pour 
the dressing over and 
toss up and down 

with the fork until the dressing has all been absorbed. 

6. Serve on salad plates and garnish with radish roses. 
Serving: 

A vegetable salad such as this is always served at dinner or 
luncheon, usually as a separate course. The housewife then 
usually prrfers to mix her own dressing while at the table. 
In such case, the ingredients are brought in and placed at her 
right. The vegetables, cleaned, crisped, and dried, are also 
brought in. A large bowl is used for mixing the salad. When 
the salad is prepared, it is placed on salad plates and served 
with a salad fork. When the salad is served with the meat 
course and on individual plates, it is placed at the left hand 
above the course plate. 




Fig. 73. — Making French Dressing 



Digitized by 



Google 



SALADS 157 

Table maxmers: 

Rule : Always eat salads with a fork. 

If this seems difficult, aid the fork by holding the salad with 
a piece of bread or wafer. 
Remarks on salads: 

A few years ago, salads were practically miknown at our 
meals, but now we have them often at dinner or luncheon, 
where they are served as a separate course. 

Salads may be made of almost any vegetable, fresh or cooked, 
fresh and sometimes cooked fruit, nuts, meat, and fish. They 
may be roughly divided into four classes. These are: 

1. Salads made from herbs, cultivated or wild, served 
uncooked, alone or combined with lettuce, and usually served 
with French dressing. Examples are water-cress, endive, 
and dandelion. 

2. Salads having lettuce as a foundation, with uncooked 
fruits or vegetables. These are served with French or mayon- 
naise dressing. (See next lesson.) They may also be served 
with cooked dressings. Examples are Waldorf, cucumber, 
tomato, or fruit salads. 

3. Salads having lettuce as a foundation and made with 
cooked vegetables. The vegetables may be marinated (see 
below) an hour or so with oil. These salads may be served with 
any dressing. Examples are: potato, carrot, beet, beans, or 
peas, or a mixture of these. 

4. Salads with lettuce or celery as a foundation, with cooked 
meat, fish, or eggs cut in dice. Such salads should be served 
with mayonnaise dressing. 

To "marinate,^' means to add salt, pepper, oil, and vinegar 
to a salad ingredient or mixture and allow it to stand until well 
seasoned. Cooked vegetables, such as potatoes, peas, beans 
and other legumes are so treated, as are also meat, fish, and poul- 
try diced. The object is to cause the juices of vegetables or 
meat to become saturated with the flavor; if they do not come 
in contact with the oil and vinegar until they are to be served, 



Digitized by 



Google 



158 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



the flavor is not appetizing; but when the salad ingredients 
have been marinated, they should be thoroughly drained before 
the dressing is added to them; if they are not, the dressing may 
become watery or thinned, thus detracting from the appearance 
of the salad. French dressing is much used for marinating. 
Cleaning up: 

1. Place all worthless pieces of vegetables in the garbage can. 

2. Put all vegetables which may be used again in covered 
pails and place in the ice box. 

3. Wash every dish used and put in its proper place. 
What has been learned: 

1. Classification of salads. 

2. To marinate means to moisten a salad mixture with 
French dressing and then allow it to stand until well seasoned. 

Lesson LVIII 



Potato Salad 
Materials used: 

Class Rtile 
^ c cold boiled potatoes cut 

in half -inch cubes 
i apple cut in quarter-inch 

cubes 
I c finely cut celery 



1 tp salt 

i tp mustard 

^ tp sugar 

a few grains cayenne 

J tb flour 

J egg yolk or i egg 

3 tb scalded milk 

2 tb hot vinegar 

i tp melted butter 



Home Rule 
2 c cold boiled potatoes cut 

in half-inch cubes 
1 apple cut in quarter-inch 

cubes 
1 c finely cut celery 

Dressing: 

1 tp salt 

1 tp mustard 

2 tp sugar 

a few grains cayenne 
1 tb flour 

yolks 2 eggs or 1 egg 
f c scalded milk 

1 c hot vinegar 

2 tp melted butter 



Digitized by 



Google 



SALADS 159 

Utensils needed: 

Bowl for beating the egg double boiler for scalding 

bowl for mixing the ingred- milk 

ients egg beater 

wooden spoon for stirring spoons and knives 

granite pan for heating the towel for drying celery 

vinegar bowl for mixing the salad 

knife for dicing apples, 

potatoes and celery 
Work to be done: 

1. Mix dry ingredients. 

2. Beat the egg slightly, add to the dry ingredients, and mix 
thoroughly. 

3. Add the scalded milk, stirring all the time. 

4. Pour all in double boiler and add hot vinegar; stir until 
it becomes thick. 

5. Add butter. 

6. Cool before it is used. 

7. Dice the potatoes. 

8. Pare the apple and dice it. 

9. Cleanse the celery, cutting out all bad spots, and wash 
thoroughly. Cut in small pieces and dry in towel. 

10. Place all in the bowl, moisten with dressing, and garnish 
with celery tips or hard boiled eggs sliced. 
Serving: 

This salad, because it contains so much hearty food, is a 
favorite at picnics. It may also be served as the principal dish 
at a luncheon or a cold supper, but never as a course at a 
hearty dinner. 

A pretty garnish for this salad may be made of hard-boiled 
eggs and cooked beets. Chop the whites and arrange on a 
fourth of the mound of salad; chop beets finely, mix with 1 tb 
of vinegar, and let stand 15 minutes, then arrange on the two 
fourths next to whites. Chop the yolks or force them through 
a potato ricer and arrange them on the remaining fourth of the 



Digitized by 



Google 



160 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

mound, opposite the whites. Put small sprigs of parsley in 
the lines which separate the garnishes. Garnish with parsley 
at the base. 
Remarks on salad dressing: 

Salad dressings are usually divided into three classes: French, 
mayonnaise, and boiled. French dressing is made of olive oil 
and vinegar, with seasonings. Mayonnaise dressing also has the 
oil and the vinegar, but these are combined with egg yolk and 
seasonings. In boiled dressings, the ingredients are combined 
by cooking. These may be of two kinds, with cream and with- 
out cream. Dressings containing cream have the egg yolks, 
vinegar, and seasonings combined by cooking, and the cream, 
whipped, is added when the dressing is to be used. Dressings 
without cream are made from milk and eggs as a foundation 
and are seasoned with vinegar, salt, pepper, and mustard. 
The fat used is usually butter. Boiled dressings may have flour 
added to them as a thickening agent; when flour is used, less 
egg yolk is needed. Egg yolks are added to boiled dressings 
for flavor, richness, and as a thickening agent. 
Cleaning up: 

Clean up, observing rules given in previous lessons. 
What has been learned: 

1. A hearty salad should not be served at a hearty meal. 

2. In boiled dressings, the principal thickening agent is 
egg yolk; flour may also be so used. 

3. The three kinds of salad dressings are French, mayonnaise, 
and boiled. 



Digitized by 



Google 



SALADS 
Lesson LIX 

Fruit Salad 



161 



Materials used: 

Class Rule 
i orange 
^ banana 

3 grapes 

I slice pineapple 

4 walnuts 



Home Rule 

2 oranges 

3 bananas 

J lb Malaga grapes 

4 slices pineapple cubed 
12 walnuts 



Dressing: 



3 yolks 
J c sugar 
i c vinegar 
i tp salt 
i tp pepper 
whipped cream 

double boiler 
bowl for mixing salad 
spoons and knives for 
measuring 



lyolk 

IJ tb sugar 

IJ tb vinegar 

^ tp salt 

a few grains pepper 

whipped cream 
Utensils needed: 

Bowl for inixing ingredients 

bowl for whipping cream 

paring knife 

wooden spoon for stirring 
Work to be done: 

1. Mix the yolks, sugar, salt, and vinegar. 

2. Cook the mixture in the double boiler, stirring all the time. 

3. Cool the mixture. 

4. Add whipped cream when ready to serve. 

5. Cut the fruit and nuts into appropriate pieces. 

6. Place them in bowl and mix with the dressing to which 
the whipped cream has been added. 

Serving: 

This salad could be appropriately served in orange cups, 
or oranges which have been cut in halves crosswise and from 
which the pulp has been removed. If this is done, place a 



Digitized by 



Google 




162 DOMESTIC SCIENCE. 

large lettuce leaf on a plate, place the orange cup upon this and 
pile the salad into it. Serve with crackers. This salad may be 

served at a hearty meal either 
as the salad or the fruit course. 
Remarks: 

The two most important 
things to remember in pre- 
paring salad ingredients is to 
Fig. 74.— Salad in Orange Cups ^^^ve them clean, if of fresh 

vegetables, and absolutely 
crisp. Wilted salad ingredients do not look appetizing and are 
not wholesome. All leaves used in salads should be treated 
just as were the lettuce leaves in the first lesson. 

Tomatoes that are to be used for salads should have the 
skins removed. How is this best done? When this has been 
done, the hard centers should be cut out around the stems, and 
the tomatoes s6t near the ice to become chilled. 

When salad plants are brought from the market, they should 
be kept from the air in closed vessels or tightly wrapped in 
paper. Celery should not be put into water until just before 
serving, because it rusts so easily. Celery is crisped in the same 
way as lettuce. It should be drained and wiped dry. The 
stalks should be separated from the root and from each other, 
washed, drained, and wiped dry as before. All the remnants not 
used in the salad should be saved, as they are good for soups. 

All cooked meat should be cut into small dice, freed from 
fat, bone, and gristle, marinated, and chilled. Cooked vege- 
tables also should be cut into uniform pieces, marinated, and 
chilled. When ready to serve, they should be thoroughly 
mixed with mayonnaise dressing and arranged on a bed of green 
lettuce leaves. 

To give a taste of onion to potato or other salad, a little onion 
juice may be squeezed into the dressing or the bowl in which 
the dressing is to be mixed may be rubbed with onion or garlic. 
Pieces of onion or garlic should never be dropped into the salad. 



Digitized by 



Google 



SALADS 



163 



What has been learned: 

Rules regarding the care and preparation of salad mgredients. 

Lesson LX 



Easter Salad 



Materials used: 

Class Rule 
U euf chatel cheese 
cream 

salt and pepper 
chopped nuts 

i tp mustard 
J tp salt 
i tp flour 

1 tp powdered sugar 
a few grains cayenne 
i tp melted butter 

i egg yolk 

1| tp hot vinegar 

2 tp thick cream 
Utensils needed: 

Wooden spoon 
spoons and knife for 
measuring 

Double boiler 
bowl for mixing dry 
ingredients 



Home Rule • 
lemon juice (if desired) 
lettuce leaves 
1 green pepper 

Dressing: 

1 tp mustard 

1 tp salt 

2 tp flour 

1| tp powdered sugar 
a few grains cayenne 
1 tp melted butter 
yolk of one egg 
I c hot vinegar 
i c thick cream 

bowl for mixing ingredients 
silver knife for shredding 
lettuce 
Dressing: 

wooden spoon for stirring 
spoons and knife for meas- 
uring 
bowl for whipping cream 



The dressing: 

1. Add dry ingredients. 

2. Add melted butter and mix. 

3. Beat egg and add, mixing well. 



Digitized by 



Google 



164 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



4. Heat vinegar in granite pan. 

5. Add vinegar to the mixture slowly, stirring all the time. 

6. Cook in double boiler until thick. 

7. Cool the mixture. 

8. Beat cream and add to the dressing when ready to use. 
The salad: 

1. Cream the cheese. 

2. Thin slightly with a little cream. 

3. Add seasonings and mix. 

4. Add nuts and work them into the mixture. 

5. Make into small egg-shaped balls. 

6. Shred lettuce by laying the leaves in a pile on each other 

and cutting through 
the pile with a 
silver knife. Cut 
into J-inch strips or 
even narrower. (It 
should look like 
grass.) 

7. Cut the pep- 
pers around and 
around with the 
scissors into very 
narrow strips. 

8. Place the lettuce and peppers on a plate, arranged like a 
nest with the peppers more in the center. 

9. Place three or four eggs in the nest, and put dressing over 
the eggs. 

S.emarks: 

In this salad there is a new method of arranging the ingred- 
ients. An ingenious housewife or cook can think of many more 
variations of the ingredients given in the preceding lessons. 
Principles: 

A salad composed mostly of greens does not have a large 
food value, but when cheese, meat, cooked vegetables, or fruit 




Fig. 75. —Easter Salad 



Digitized by 



Google 



SALADS 165 

enter into the combination, its food value is considerable. 
The olive oil, butter, and cream used in this dressing furnish 
fat in an easily digestible fonn. It is believed that the acid 
used helps in the digestion of the woody fibres and the salts, 
and minerals found in the green vegetables are of great use to the 
body. In addition, the salad itself is appetizing and refreshing. 
Where one cannot have both a salad and a dessert at dinner, 
it is often better to have the salad only, as it is usually more 
easily digested than a rich pudding or pie. A salad should be 
served at least two or three times a week. 
Serving: 

A salad of this kind properly belongs in the salad course of & 
dinner or formal luncheon. Mayonnaise dressing may be used 
in place of the cream dressing. 
Cleaning up: 

Clean up as directed in previous lessons. 
What has been learned: 

1. Salads supply valuable mineral salts to the body. 

2. They are valuable in the diet because of their freshness and 
their appetizing qualities. 

Additional Recipes 

Cream Salad Dressing 

Rub the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs to a smooth paste; add gradually 
to them one teaspoon salt, one-fourth teaspoon sugar, one-half saltspooa 
cayenne, one teaspoon mustard and two tablespoons vinegar; have one 
pint cream very cold and whip till thick and smooth; beat this, a tablespoon 
at a time, into the mixture with a whisk. 

Waldorf Salad 

One cup sour apples, one cup celery, one tablespoon lemon juice, one» 
half cup walnut meats broken in pieces. Cut apples in thin slices; cut 
celery in small pieces. Dust with salt and pepper. Mix with mayonnaise 
or boiled dressing. 



Digitized by 



Google 



SANDWICHES 

Lesson LXI 

Sandwiches 

Lettuce sandwiches: 

Cream butter in a bowl till soft enough to spread easily. 
Place a loaf of bread that is about 24 hours old on a wooden 
board. Hold the loaf with the upper crust toward you and 
with a sharp knife cut off as many thin slices as desired. Remove 
the crusts, but keep in the order cut. Put slices together in 
pairs. Cut in squares, oblongs, or triangles. Butter the slices. 
Put a crisp lettuce leaf, which has been thoroughly washed 
and dried, between each two slices. Put a spoonful of dressing 
on each leaf. Press the two slices together. 
Egg sandwiches: 

Boil eggs until hard. How should they be boiled? Remove 
the shell. Separate the whites from the yolks. Chop the 
whites fine in a chopping bowl. Force the yolks through a 
strainer or potato ricer. Mix the whites and yolks, season 
with salt and pepper. Mix with enough salad dressing to 
moisten. Spread between slices of bread prepared in the 
same way as for lettuce sandwiches. 
Nut sandwiches: 

Boiled Dressing 
f c vinegar a speck of cayenne 1 tp salt 

1 tp mustard 1 tb sugar 2 eggs 

Mix vinegar, salt, mustard, sugar, cayenne, and butter, and 
cook until the boiling point is reached. Beat eggs xmtil light 
in top of double boiler. Pour the hot vinegar over beaten eggs 
slowly, stirring constantly. Cook over hot water xmtil it 
thickens, stirring all the while. 

166 



Digitized by 



Google 



SANDWICHES 



167 



Use peanuts, English walnuts, filberts, or hickory nuts. 
Chop nuts fine in a chopping bowl. Turn them into another 

bowl and mix in enough boiled dressing to moisten them. Cut 

thin slices of bread. Put them together in pairs. Cut with 

fancy cutter, reserving the crusts for use as bread crumbs. 

Spread with butter. Spread the nuts on one slice and fit the 

other on top and press together. 

Cheese and English-walnut sandwiches: 

J lb grated cheese i lb English walnuts 

i lb butter salt and pepper 

Cream the butter. Add the seasonings and grated cheese 

gradually, then mix in nuts which should be sliced very thin; 

spread mixture on slices of bread and press together in pairs. 

Olive and punento sandwiches: 

Mix equal quantities of chopped stuflfed olives, pimentoes 

and sweet pickles with 



boiled dressing. Spread 
between thin slices of 
buttered bread. 
Ribbon sandwiches: 

Cut brown bread and 
white bread into thin 
slices. Spread with 
creamed butter. Press 




Fig. 76. — Sandwiches 



together three slices of white 
and three of brown, putting first a slice of white then one of 
brown, one of white and so on. Trim off the crusts and slice 
as ordinary bread. These are served with oysters, and salads. 
Sliced ham sandwiches: 

Slice cold boiled ham as thinly as possible. Put between 
thin slices of buttered bread. 
Ham with sauce Tartare: 

Finely chop cold boiled ham. Moisten with salad dressing. 
Chop equal amounts of olives and pickles. Add to the ham. 
Spread between thin slices of bread. Class Rule: 2 tb ham; 
1 tb dressing; 1 tp chopped olives and pickles. 



Digitized by 



Google 



168 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Ham with white sauce (Class Rule): 

White sauce: j tb butter; J tb flour; | c milk; seasoning. 
Mix with 1 tp finely chopped ham. Spread between slices of 
bread. 
Date sandwic|ies: 

Wash, stone, and chop dates. Mix with half as much 
chopped nuts. Moisten with boiled dressing or mayonnaise. 
Proceed as before. 
How to serve sandwiches: 

1. Serve sandwiches piled on a plate covered with a doily. 

2. Sandwiches may be served at luncheons, dinners, five 
o'clock teas, or picnics. 

3. For the lunch or picnic basket, wrap the sandwiches in 
oil or parafiine paper. 

4. Sweet sandwiches may be offered with cocoa or tea. 

5. Sandwiches may be served at the beginning of the meal 
with the oysters, or with the salad. 

Note to Teacher: This lesson has not been outlined as the previous 
lessons,, aa practical work will have to depend upon the number of pupils 
in c]08f inaterial on hand, and the use to be made of the sandwiches. 

The class may be divided into groups, and different kinds of bread used 
and different kinds of sandwiches made by each group. 

At the end of the lesson, the different kinds of fiUings and sandwiches 
may be discussed, and comparisons made as to cost, food value, and ways 
of serving. 



Digitized by 



Google 



BEVERAGES 

Lesson LXn 

Boiled Coffee 

Materials used: 

Class Rule Home Rule 

1 rounding tb of coffee for Measure the number of 

each cup water cups desired, add rounding 

1 tp egg and water tb for each cup of water and 

1 c boiling water a proportionate amount of 

egg. One egg is enough for 
1 cup of ground coffee. 
Utensils needed: 

Granite ware coffee pot 
cup for mixing egg and coffee 
tablespoon for measuring 
Work to be done: 

1. Beat the whole egg slightly and dilute with J c cold water 
before it is measured out. 

2. Place the egg in a cup and add the coffee. Mix. 

3. Scald the coffee pot. 

4. Add the coffee and 1 c boiling water. 

5. Place on the fire and let boil three minutes. 

6. Take from the fire and let stand in a warm place ten 
minutes. ; 
Principles: 

Coffee contains three important compounds: Caffeine, 
which gives to coffee its stimulating effect; tannin, which is 
poisonous and gives to coffee a bitter taste; and aromatic oils, 
which gives it its delightful aroma. The tannin is extracted 
by boiling; for this reason, the coffee should not be boiled longer 

169 



Digitized by 



Google 



170 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



than three minutes. Hot water does not extract the tannin, 
but does extract the caffeine. For this reason filtered coffee 
is more healthful than boiled coffee; it has the caffeine extracted, 
but not the tannin. 

Much has been said both for and against the use of coffee 
as a beverage. If an adult is perfectly healthy, moderate 
amounts of coffee of medium strength will not be injurious; 
but the stimulating effects of coffee are harmful to children 

and to all nervous, 
delicate people, 
hence they should 
never use it. 
Serving: 

Coffee is used at 
breakfast and din- 
ner by most people. 
Some people like 
the coffee with their 

dinner, others pre- 
FiG. 77.-An After-dinner Coffee Service f^^. ^^ y^^^^ j^ ^^^ 

the dessert. At a formal dinner, very strong coffee is made 
and served without cream, but with or without sugar as 
the individual prefers. Such coffee is called cafe noir, or black 
coffee. It is served in very small coffee cups, or after-dinner 
coffee cups. When cream and sugar are served with coffee, 
many think the flavor of the coffee is improved if they are 
placed in the cup before the coffee is poured in. 
Table manners: 

Rule: Coffee, tea, and cocoa should be drunk from the cup. 
The spoon is used to stir coffee and to sip it in order to ascertain 
if the flavor is right, but should not be otherwise used with coffee 
or tea. It seems unnecessary to state that these beverages are 
never to be drunk from the saucer. 
Cleaning up: 

1. Empty the coffee grounds into the garbage can. 




Digitized by 



Google 



BEVERAGES 171 

2. Soak the cup in which the egg and coffee were mixed in 
cold water. 

3. Wash the coffee pot in warm, clean, soapy water, being 
careful to cleanse the inside and the spout well, and rinse in 
hot water. 

4. Wipe the pot dry inside and out and place in its proper place. 

5. Wash the other dishes as before directed. 

Note to Teacher: If the laboratory is not supplied with coffee pots, 
the granite pans, covered, will do just as well. 

What has been learned : 

1. Coffee contains three compounds; caffeine, tannin, and 
aromatic oils. 

2. Caffeine is the stimulating principle, tannin is poisonous 
and bitter, the aromatic oils give to coffee its aroma. 

3. Filtered coffee is less harmful than boiled coffee. 

4. Nervous people and children should not drink coffee. 

5. The harm arising from leaving the grounds in the coffee 
pot for several days at a time. 

Filtered Coffee 
Materials used: 

1 rounding tb of coffee 1 cup boiling water 
Utensils needed: 

French coffee pot 
Work to be done: 

Place the coffee in the strainer, the 
strainer in the coffee pot, and the pot 
on the range. Add the water and 
allow to filter until all the water has 
passed through the strainer. If de- 
sired stronger, let pass through again. 
Serving : ^^°- '^^' " ^^^^^^ Coffee Pot 

Serve at once with cream and cut sugar. 

Note to Teacher: If desired, divide the class, allowing one group to boil 
coffee and the other to make filtered coffee. But if there is only one French 
coffee pot in the laboratory, make filtered coffee as a demonstration lesson. 




Digitized by 



Google 



172 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Lesson LXm 

Coffee (Reading) 

Many boys and girls are familiar with the appearance of 
coffee berries as they come from the store. They had a long 
and tedious journey before they reached the store, for coflfee 
berries do not grow in this country. Their home is in far 
away Africa in the mountainous country just west of the 
Red Sea. It is said that many, many hundred years ago a 
certain goat herder in that country noticed that when his goats 
had eaten of the leaves and berries of a certain tree, they 
became very active and frisky. So he ate some of the berries 
himself to see what effect they would have upon him. His 
neighbors accused him of drinking wine unknown to them. 
Of course he denied this and told them that he had eaten of the 
fruit of a certain tree. So they all ate some of the berries and 
they liked the results so well that they told others of their 
experience. In this way the knowledge spread farther and 
farther. Men who had become acquainted with the effects 
of the coffee berry carried the seeds with them when they went 
to far away regions to make their homes. It was in this way 
that the cultivation of the trees spread, at first chiefly in an 
easterly direction. 

The coffee tree is a very delicate one. It cannot endure the 
extreme heat; and a frost is death to it. Its home was near 
the equator in a mountainous country; whenever there is such 
a region provided with plenty of rainfall, the coffee tree will 
thrive. As has been said, the coffee trees were first carried 
eastward from their home. They were taken to Java, Sumatra, 
the Philippine Islands, and other eastern lands. In Java the sun 
is very hot, so the delicate coflfee trees are shaded by the over- 
arching branches of shade trees which are planted among them. 

The story of how the first coffee trees were brought to this 
coimtry is a very interesting one. A certain merchant who had 



Digitized by 



Google 



BEVERAGES I73 

settled- in southern Brazil thought that the rich soil and wann 
climate of that country ought to grow coffee trees. So he set 
out on a long journey across the Atlantic in search of coffee 
plants. Ocean travel in those days was not so speedy and 
comfortable as it is now, so a journey such as he undertook 
was fraught with many dangers. But he reached Africa safely, 
and did succeed in obtaining a few plants. On the way back 
an accident on the ship caused a scarcity of water and no one 
was allowed more than one quart a day. He divided his quart 
equally among his plants, but when the ship reached land, only 
two of them were alive. However, he planted these and from 
them have been raised the greater number of coffee trees in 
Brazil, although since then many more trees have been brought 
from Africa to Brazil. One can realize how much this one 
man's effort has meant to Brazil when it is known that in Brazil 
today is raised two-thirds of the world's coffee. 

The people of the United States are the greatest coffee 
drinkers in the world. They buy enough coffee each year to 
give to each woman and child in the coxmtry twelve pounds 
during the year. For this large amount of coffee is spent each 
year, ninety million dollars. The entire crop of the world 
amounts to about twenty-three hundred million pounds and 
all but two hundred million pounds of that amount comes from 
this hemisphere; most of the remainder comes from the East 
Indies and other islands of the East. How wonderful it is 
when we consider that this large crop had its beginning in two 
little plants which a man nursed so carefully through a tedious 
ocean voyage. 

A coffee plantation, always on the sides of hills, is a very- 
interesting place. The coffee berries are planted in nurseries, 
not out in the open fields as are cotton and other plants. They 
soon sprout and when they are a few inches high, each is trans- 
planted to a little hole over which sticks and leaves are laid 
to protect it from the sun. Weeds must be kept down, hence 
the plants are cultivated until they are four years old. Then 



Digitized by 



Google 



174 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

they are set out ten feet apart each way. They now begin 
bearing and may continue to do so for thirty years or more. 

These trees are a species of evergreen with dark green, glossy 
leaves, among which may be seen the glistening, dark scarlet 
berries. As the trees are never allowed to grow more than 
twelve feet in height, they look like shrubs. The trees begin 
to put forth their fragrant white blossoms in December, just 
when our snow storms are beginning to fly through the air. 

The flowering season lasts several weeks, just as it does with 
the cotton plant. In April and May the berries begin to ripen 
and the harvesting also lasts for many weeks. They begin 
their harvesting when in the United States the farmers begin 
their sowing. The women and children pick the berries by 
hand, placing them in baskets or sacks. * 

They must pass through several processes before they are 
ready for market. When the berries come in from the field, 
they are soft. If the pulp is removed, a white, quite hard 
skin will be found under it. If this is cut away, the two beans, 
pale green in color, will be found lying within it with their flat 
sides toward each other. 

Before the beans can be roasted, they must be freed from the 
surrounding pulp and skin. This is done by machinery. The 
berries are carried to the factory by cars, by wagon, by mule- 
back, or by chutes down the mountain side. To get rid of the 
pulp, the berries are run through machines which crush them 
without injuring the seeds. The resulting mush is carried 
away over a cylinder in which there are holes through which 
the beans surrounded by the skins, drop into large vats. In 
the vats these are scoured by a large screw operated by machin- 
ery so that they come out white as snow. 

Outside the factories, large cement floors have been built. The 
berries are taken out to these floors and left in the sun for weeks 
xmtil they are perfectly dry. During the night they must be pro- 
tected from'the dew, which is harmful to them, and they must also 
be carefully guarded from theft, for they are valuable property. 



Digitized by 



Google 



BEVERAGES 175 

When the berries are thoroughly dried, they are passed 
through some more machmery which removes the two layers 
of skin. Before they are shipped they must be graded. This 
is done by passing the coffee over a series of graduated sieves 
by means of which the berries of the same size are gathered 
together and run out through the same pipe and into bags 
ready for shipping. 

Before the coffee can be used, it must be roasted. Formerly 
this was done entirely at home in an iron pot over the fire or in 
the oven. Now it is done almost entirely in factories in large 
heated cylinders which are turned by machinery. In this way 
a more uniform roast can be obtained than by the old method. 
It takes about one hour and forty-five minutes to roast coffee; 
if it is left in the roaster too long, it will be spoiled. After 
roasting, it is ground or left whole and sealed in packages. 

;' 
Lesson LXIV 

Tea 
Materials used: 

1 tp tea milk 

2 c boiling water (water cream 

freshly boiled) sugar, slice of lemon 

Utensils needed: 

Teapot, preferably of china teaspoon 

measuring cup cup and saucer 

Work to be done: 

1. Scald the teapot with a cup of boiling water; when the 
teapot is thoroughly heated, empty it. Let stand a moment 
on the hot stove to dry. 

2. Put 1 tp tea into the hot teapot. 

3. Pour 1 c of boiling water over the tea. 

4. Let it stand five minutes covered on the hot stove, but 
do not allow it to boil. 

5. Serve the tea immediately. 



Digitized by 



Google 



176 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



Principles: 

Tea owes its value in the diet to a substance known as theine. 
This substance has a stimulating effect on the nerves, and pre- 
vents tissue from wearing out. Theine can be drawn out of 
the dried tea leaves only by the use of' boiling water. If the 
water is not boiling, the theine will not be dissolved, and the 
tea will not have that agreeable flavor given to it by this prin- 
ciple (the term applied to theine in chemistry). 

When water is boiled a long time, the air is driven out of it, 
making it taste flat and insipid. This is the reason why briskly 

boiled water should 
be used in making 
tea. 

Besides theine, 
there is another 
substance in tea 
known as tannin, 
the same that is 
found in coffee. 
This is a very bitter 
substance, and if 
boiled out of the 
tea leaves would 
give the tea a very 
bitter taste. It has 
been found that boiling the tea or letting it steep a long time 
will extract this tannin. Hence it can be seen how very 
important it is not to boil the tea or allow it to stand more 
than a short time before serving it. 

The food value of tea is increased by the use of sugar and 
milk. 
Serving: 

Tea may be served plain, with cream and sugar, or with 
slice of lemon and without sugar, as desired. At an afternoon 
tea, wafers, cakes, or sandwiches are passed with it. 




Fig. 79.— Tea Service 



Digitized by 



Google 



BEVERAGES 177 

Cleaning up: 

Wash the teapot with hot, clean, soapy water, rinse well and 
wipe dry. Allow to stand with cover ofT or open for a few 
minutes before putting it away. 
What has been learned: 

1. That tea has two substances in it, one to be extracted and 
the other to be prevented from extracting by proper methods 
of preparation. 

2. That water boiled long is flat and insipid, and should 
not be used in making tea. 

3. That boiling water extracts the theine, the valuable 
principle in tea leaves. 

4. That boiling and long steeping extract the tannin, the 
undesirable principle in tea leaves. 

5. That the value of tea is increased by use of sugar and 
cream. 

Lesson LXV 

Tea (Reading) 

Tea is a beverage used by more than one-half of the human 
race. It was used ages ago by the Chinese and Japanese, and 
today these people drink more tea than all of the rest of the 
world put together. The British are the chief tea-drinkers 
of the white race. It is a favorite Russian drink, and every 
Russian family keeps a samovar (a metal vessel which utilizes 
hot charcoal as a means of heat), with boiling water ready for 
making it. They drink it out of tumblers without milk, but 
generally flavored with lemon. Some have a rather peculiar 
way of drinking it, putting a lump of sugar between the teeth 
and sucking the tea through it. The Swiss flavor their tea 
with a stick of cinnamon. 

Tea is the dried evergreen leaf of a plant that very much 
resembles a camellia or willow bush. The flowers look very 
much like roses. 



Digitized by 



Google 



178 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

The wild tea plant grows to a height of fifteen or more feet, 
but the cultivated one is generally pruned to a height of from 
three to five feet. It is from the young tender leaves that 
have not yet unrolled that the tea of commerce is made. The 
tea leaves are picked by women and children. Several crops 
are picked from the same plant during* the year, intervals of 
two or three weeks being left for new leaves to unfold. 

The tea plant is native to the southern part of Asia and the 
slopes of the Himalaya Mountains. It has been cultivated 
from time immemorial in Japan and China, while half the tea 
exported comes from India, Ceylon, and Java. Tea of the 
very best quality does not bear transporting and is seldom 
found outside of the country where it is grown. 

The tea leaf has to be prepared in a certain manner before 
it can be used. If an ordinary green tea leaf is steeped in boiling 
water, the resulting beverage would be very different from the 
appetizing tea with which all are familiar. According to the 
method of preparation, there are two kinds of tea on the market, 
black tea and green tea. 

To make black tea, the leaves as soon as they are picked are 
spread out on trays under an awning. Very soon they begin 
to wilt, become limp, and get dark colored with red and brown 
spots here and there. A peculiar odor, due to what is known 
as fermentation, is given off. Experienced workmen, who 
tell by the odor when fermentation has gone on long enough, 
gather up the leaves and spread them on long tables, where 
they are rolled into large balls by women. These balls are 
then squeezed in order to press out the water, and packed 
tightly in large round baskets where fermentation is again 
allowed to set in. After being rolled again, the tea is roasted 
on iron gauze sieves over a fire of charcoal. It is then sorted 
and the seeds aild foreign matter are removed. The tea is 
made ready for shipment by being packed in large chests 
covered with sheet lead and then matting to exclude all 
moisture. 



Digitized by 



Google 



BEVERAGES 179 

In curing green tea, the leaves are allowed to ferment. A 
short time after they are gathered, they are roasted in pans 
or steamed. They are then rolled by hand upon a table and 
again roasted for an hour or more. During the process of 
roasting, they are occasionally stirred. They come out from 
this process with a dark green color, which gradually lightens. 
In Japan, green tea is often cured by putting the tea leaves 
in baskets and drying them in the sun. This kind of tea is 
known as "basket-fired," or "sun-dried.'' 

There is another kind of tea, used to a large extent in Russia, 
which is known as brick tea. It is made by grinding the leaves, 
steaming them till soft and mushy, and pressing the pulpy 
mass into brick molds. Brick tea is used largely by the inhab- 
itants of Tibet and Mongolia, who prize it so highly that they 
use the bricks as money, each brick passing for a value equal 
to about fifteen cents. 

According to the locality where produced, the time of collect- 
ing, stage of leaf development, et<;., teas are known by various 
names. Some of the brands of black tea are Oolong, Formosa, 
Orange Pekoe. Pekoe tea is made from the very youngest 
and topmost leaves of the plant. It can be readily distingished 
by the little yellow tip of each leaf. It is scented with orange 
leaves. All Pekoe teas are very expensive. 

The best green tea comes from Japan. Some brands are 
Hyson, Japan, and Gunpowder. 

All tea importers have buyers in the tea-growing countries. 
These buyers must be "tea tasters," that is, they must be able 
to detect by odor, examination, and taste just the difference 
between teas, and how much each is worth. 

Value of Tea in the Dietary 

Tea is valuable on account of its stimulating effect on the 
nervous system whereby it helps tired nerves to recover them- 
selves. It is a good thing for grown people to use if taken 
moderately. When tea is used, less food is required, for by 



Digitized by 



Google 



180 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

its use less tissue is worn out, and consequently there is less 
tissue to repair. If taken in excess, however, it is very harmful, 
for it produces sleeplessness and nervousness. Children 
should never be allowed to drink tea, for it checks the develop- 
ment of the nervous system. 



Digitized by 



Google 



MARKETING 

In order to buy economically and wisely one should know the 
products to be bought — their origin, grades, and service- 
ableness. There is no knowledge of food products that will not 
be of value in selecting foods for the table. In addition to this 
is the pleasure and the mental stimulation that comes from an 
acquaintance with the materials handled in cookery. 

No amount of book instruction will take the place of first- 
hand knowledge obtained at the market or in the grocery store. 
To be able to handle the products, to see the different grades 
and prices, and to question the salesmen concerning them, gives 
value to the instruction given by the teacher and that obtained 
from books. 
Weights and measures: 

Most states have sealers of weights and measures or inspectors 
who test the accuracy of scales aiid of measures. Purchasers 
should make certain that they are getting just weight or full 
measure by noting whether the official stamp of the inspector 
is on the scales or measures. 

The purchase of all vegetables and fruits by weight is much 
the fairer method and the tendency in state laws is to require 
sales and purchases to be made in that way. It would be well 
also if eggs were sold by weight. The state of Iowa has estab- 
lished by law a weight of 1^ lb. for a dozen hens' eggs. 

In states allowing commodities to be sold by measure, small 
dry substances such as peas, beans, and seeds are sold by 
stricken measure; i.e., the container is made level full. Larger 
substances such as potatoes, beets, carrots, and apples are sold 
by heaped measure. The heaped measure should hold about 
one-fourth more than the same article in stricken measure. It 
is because there is no accurate method of determining whether 
the measure of potatoes, for instance, has been heaped enough 

181 



Digitized by 



Google 



182 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

to make a standard bushel of potatoes weighing 60 lb., that the 
sale by measure is discontinued in many states. 

A standard U. S. bushel should contain 2150.42 cubic inches; 
one peck should contain one-fourth of this number of cubic 
inches. The quart for measuring dry substances should con- 




FiG. 80 
A Stricken Bushel (Beans) A Heaped Bushel (Onions) 

tain one thirty-second of the number of cubic inches in a bushel. 
The liquid quart, which is one-fourth of a gallon of 231 cubic 
inches, should not be used in measuring dry articles. 

The dry quart contains 67.2 cu. in. 
The liquid quart contains 57.75 cu. in. 
The dry quart is larger by 9.45 cu. in. 

It is evidently a fraud on the purchaser to sell him peas, 
beans, berries, etc., measuring them by the liquid quart. 

Berry boxes should be measured on the inside and the three 
dimensions multiplied together to see if they contain the re- 
quired number of cubic inches. The bottoms of berry boxes 
are raised not for the purpose of defrauding the customer, but 



Digitized by 



Google 



MARKETING 183 

that the berries may not be crushed when the boxes are put 
one on top of another. 

In order that dry measures may hold the amount that their 
cubical contents would indicate they must be of regulation size. 
A tall slim container would not hold a bushel even though it 
contained 2150.42 cubic inches. On that account the law 
provides that the inside dimensions of standard bushel basket 
must be as follows: 

Diameter at top 17 inches 
Diameter at bottom 16 inches 
Depth lOyV inches 

Smaller standard measures of dry articles should be cylin- 
drical in shape, and of the following dimensions: 

1 pint 
1 quart 
i peck 
1 peck 
^ bushel 

Fruits and vegetables: 

The family table should be supplied with a good variety of 
fruits and vegetables all the year round. Rapid transportation 
has made it possible to have fruits and vegetables that are *'out 
of season" as far as the locality where they are bought is con- 
cerned, at a very slight advance in price on the home-grown 
product in season. Modern methods of canning also enable 
one to have canned vegetables and fruits that in many respects 
equal the fresh products. 
Peas: 

Peas are very valuable as a food chiefly because of the large 
amount of protein that they contain. They are used in America 
either fresh as taken from the pod, canned, or dried. In 
Europe a variety of pea is grown that has an edible pod and 
large quantities are used as we use stringed beans. The fresh 



Diameter 


Height 


4 inches 


' 2f inches 


5f inches 


2\i inches 


8^ inches 


4f inches 


10| inches 


5f inches 


13f inches 


7^ inches 



Digitized by 



Google 



184 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

peas as they are shelled from the pod, if they are young and 
tender, make a most delicious dish. When the peas get large 
and hard they are considered less desirable, although the older 
they become the greater is their food value. 

Canned peas are used in large quantities all over the world. 
These are sold under many different brands. They are def- 
initely graded by the canners according to the size of the pea. 
The smaller the pea the higher the grade. The most expensive 
peas come from France. Although the original flavor is 
retained by the French process of canning, the bright green color 
is produced artificially by immersing the green pea in a weak 
solution of sulphate of copper for five to ten minutes. In the 
process of canning peas in this country, the peas are passed over 
different sized sieves and are thereby graded for size. Those 
passing through a sieve the openings in which are -^ of an inch 
in diameter are graded as No. 1 or "petits pois''; those passing 
through openings of ^ of an inch in diameter are graded as 
No. 2 or "extra sifted''; those which pass ^ inch openings 
are known as No. 3 or '^sifted''; and the last or fourth grade pass 
through ^ inch openings and are called *'early June" peas. 
Peas too large for the sieves pass over the sieves and are called 
No. 5 or * 'marrowfats.'' 

Dry, evaporated, and '^split" peas are exceedingly nutritious 
and each year sees an increased use of this product. The pro- 
tein content is almost as great as that of meat, and they have 
more fats and carbohydrates than meat ordinarily has. When 
dry peas are prepared for the table, the cooking should be 
preceded by soaking them for eight to ten hours, during which 
time they will absorb water to make up for that lost by the 
drying process. 
Beans: 

This vegetable is almost as nutritious as peas and occupies a 
very important place in the dietary of all nations. 

There are two great classes of beans; m., those that have 
taugh pods and those that have edible pods. The tough-podded 



Digitized by 



Google 



MARKETING 



185 



beans include most of those found in the market — Navy Beans, 
Kidney Beans, Marrow Beans, and Black Beans. To the 
"edible podded'^ beans belong the ''wax'^ beans or "butter'' 
beans which when green make a fine dish, the pods and beans 
being eaten together. "String'' or "snap" beans are varieties 
of the kidney bean, belonging to the "tough" class, but when 
the pods are young and brittle they are eaten the' same as wax 
beans. String beans should be marketed immediately after 
picking and should be used before they wilt. Test them by 
breaking. If they break with a "snap" they are in good 
condition. Although they are called string beans, they should 
have no strings until they are so old that their pods are too 
tough to be eaten. The best canned string beans are described 
as "stringless." 
Potatoes: 

Lessons 3, 4, and 5 contain 
important information con- 
cerning potatoes. It is diffi- 
cult to describe all the varieties 
of potatoes as they appear on 
the market. As sold by whole- 
salers they are often classed as 
Burbanks, Round Whites, 
Reds, and Mixed Reds and 
Whites. 

Burbanks are usually large, flattened, long potatoes. They 
bring the highest prices in the market. Round Whites, as the 
name indicates, are round white potatoes; they are medium-sized 
and include the varieties of the Rural New Yorker, sometimes 
shortened to Rurals. The Reds are usually made up of early 
potatoes such as the Early Rose, and the Mixed Reds and 
Whites are mixtures of these varieties. Mixed Reds and Whites 
bring the lowest price on the market. For immediate use, 
however, they are probably as good as the higher priced grades. 

Potatoes should be stored in a dark, cool, well-ventilated 




Fig. 81 
Common Scab on Potato 



Digitized by 



Google 



186 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



cellar, and the long-keeping varieties (late potatoes) only 
should be put away for winter use. 

In selecting potatoes for winter use, choose a sound potato at 
random from the lot, cut it in two, and examine the exposed 
surfaces. Notice whether there are any dark streaks through 
or around the potato. If so, they indicate "brown rot" or some 
other fungus disease, and such potatoes should be rejected. 




Fig. 82. — Brown Ring Discoloration on Potato, caused by 
the Fusarium wilt. Slices at left show Fusarium dry 
rot which follows the wilt or injuries. 

Squeeze the pieces of potato slightly and if drops of water run 
off the exposed surface, the potato will not cook well but will 
be soggy. It may have been dug before the potato was thor- 
oughly ripened. 

The color should be white with slightly yellowish tinge. If 
it is yellow, the potato is not likely to cook well. 

Potatoes should be free from any green color. This is caused 
by exposure to the sun which develops a poison in the potato. 

Sweet potatoes do not belong to the same family as the common 
or "Irish potato,'^ but the root has about the same composition 



Digitized by 



Google 



MARKETING 



187 



as the potato tuber, except that it has about 10 per cent of 
sugar, which gives it a decidedly sweet taste. 

Sweet potatoes should be handled with great care. The 
slightest bruise will spoil the whole potato. They are difficult 
to hold in storage, as the temperature must be held at a uniform 
point not lower than 60 degrees and not higher than 70 degrees. 

The yam is a variety of large sweet potato, the flesh of which 
is somewhat coarser and 
less palatable than the 
ordinary varieties. The 
large "moist" sweet pota- 
toes are often called yams, 
though incorrectly. The 
*'dry" or ''mealy" sweet 
potatoes are usually con- 
sidered the best. These 
come from the South. 
Tomato : 

The tomato belongs to 
the same botanical family 
(the Night-shade or Solon- 
acae) as the potato. So 
closely are they related that 
it is possible to graft the 
tomato stem on to the 
potato plant and have grow- 
ing tomatoes above and 
potatoes below the ground on the same plant. 

For a long time tomatoes were considered poisonous, but now 
they are highly esteemed as a wholesome food. In southern 
Italy, where the tomato is popular, it was called the Golden 
Apple, and in France, England, and America it was called 
the ''Love Apple." 

Tomatoes vary in size from tomatoes the size of a cherry to 
tomatoes so large that they weigh two or three pounds. 




Fig. 83.— Tomatoes 
Upper — Larger and medium varieties 

compared. 
Lower Right — Yellow tomato, small 

variety. 
Lower Left — Husk tomatoes (ground 

cherries). 



^Digitized by 



Google 



188 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

The best tomatoes for canning and for ordinary table use are 
those of medium size with well-fleshed, mostly solid, interiors, 
round and smooth on the outside. 

The ground cherry or husked tomato is an interesting variety 
of tomato. It grows in many forms, and although it is about 
the size of a cherry, it varies in color from deep red to green and 
grows in clusters so that it has various names such as ^'Straw- 
berry,'' ^'Currant,'^ and ^'Grape.^' 
Lettuce : 

The lettuce is of Greek origin and has occupied the most 
important place as a salad plant for more than four centuries. 



# Aa 



Fig. 84 
Head Lettuce Curled Lettuce Plain Leafed Lettuce 

Leaf lettuce may be plain or curled. It is used as a garnish and 
with vinegar as a salad. Head lettuce or cabbage lettuce is 
most used as a salad. The heart with proper dressing furnishes 
a simple but delicious salad. Lettuce should not be exposed 
to the sun after gathering, and should be kept in a cool place. 
If the inside leaves have a reddish tinge, the lettuce has been 
kept too long. 
Cabbage : 

This vegetable is grown in many forms and may give great 
variety to a meal. Cabbage may be boiled or fried, used as a 
mixture with other vegetables for salads, or used alone chopped 
fine. Sauerkraut is made by shredding and pickling cabbage. 



Digitized by 



Google 



MARKETING 



189 



Buy cabbages that are bright in color and crisp. If the head 
feels hard and solid, that is an indication of good quaUty. 




Fig. 85 
Kale Cabbage 

There are two varieties — early cabbage and late cabbage. 
The late cabbage may be kept in cold storage, in pits, or in cold 
cellars till late in the winter. 

Kale is a variety of cabbage in which the leaves form open 
heads. They are often very curly and beautifully patterned. 
They are used chiefly as a garnish or for greens. 




Fig. 86 
Brussels Sprouts Cauliflower Kohl-rabi 

Cauliflower is a kind of cabbage in which, by cultivation and 
seed selection, the flower buds and stalk have become enlarged so 
that it is a valuable vegetable. It is served chiefly as creamed 



Digitized by 



Google 



190 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



cauliflower or as a pickle. It is kept in the same manner as 

the ordinary kind of cabbage described above. 

Kohl-rahi is a cabbage with the stem 
just above ground thickened to about the 
size of a turnip. The leaves, when young 
and tender, may be eaten for greens. The 
thickened stem is peeled, sliced, boiled, and 
served with cream sauce. 

Brussels Sprouts originated in Belgium. 
It is one of the varieties of cabbage. It has 
a long stalk to which a number of small cab- 
bages, about an inch in diameter, are 
attached. These sprouts are quite solid, 
but when cooked are tender and have a 
flavor somewhat like cauliflower. 
Salsify or oyster plant: 

This vegetable, 
when cooked, has a 
flavor somewhat Uke 
oysters. It is grown 
for its long, tapering 
root, which is white 

and fleshy and contains a milky white 

juice. 

All parts of the plant are edible. The 

young tops may be used like asparagus. 

The white part of the stem and top leaves 

may be used for salad, but the root is 

the part for which the plant is chiefly 

grown. This may be partly boiled, 

sliced, and fried in fat, or it may be 

stewed and creamed. 

Celery: 

Celery belongs to the parsley family. The long stem, which is 

blanched white by pulling the earth up around the plant while 




Fig. 87.— Salsify 
(Vegetable Oyster) 




Fig. 88.— Celery 



Digitized by 



Google 



MARKETING 



191 




Fig. 89.— Table Beets 



it is growing, is the part used for food. The stems when 

served should be white and crisp. Celery hearts are especially 

crisp and make a very deli- 
cate dish. The tops are used 

for garnishing and forflavor- 

ing broths. The region 

about Kalamazoo, Michi- 
gan, furnishes some of the 

finest celery that comes to 

the market. 

Celery may be kept for 

a month or more in a cool 

cellar if the plants are 

wrapped in paper; or it 

may be packed in boxes 

with the tops up and covered with moist sand. 

Beets: 

Beets are one of the most important root foods. The coarse 

mangel wurzel is used as a stock food. A large part of the world^s 

sugar is produced from the sugar 
beet. The small red table beet 
is used in making pickles, or is 
baked or boiled as a side-dish. 
Beets may be kept in a cool 
cellar or kept cool by covering 
them with sand. This prevents 
wilting and shrinking. 

Chard, Although the tops of 
beets may be used for greens 
when they are young and ten- 
der, the chard is a variety of beet 
that is grown for this special pur- 
pose. The mid-ribs are quite 
p thick and may be prepared and 

Mangel Wurzel, Beets, Chard used as asparagus. 




Digitized by 



Google 



192 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Carrots: 

The carrot is a vegetable grown chiefly for its root. The 
small table variety is used as a side-dish and in giving color and 
variety to various vegetable salads. The larger, coarser 
varieties are used as feed for stock. 

Carrots may be kept in root cellars or in cold storage. If 
they are kept in a cellar, it is best to cover them with sand and 




Fig. 91 
Turnips Rutabagas 

not to pack very many together. When buying carrots, see 
that they are firm to the touch and crisp. Test their crispness 
by breaking them. 
Turnips, rutabagas : 

Turnips and rutabagas are different varieties of the same 
plant. Turnips are white-fleshed and rutabagas are yellow- 
fleshed. The medium-sized turnips are the best to use for the 
table. They are used in stews mixed with other vegetables, 
or mashed or sliced as a side dish. 
Coffee: 

Some prefer an unblended coffee of a certain variety; others 
prefer a blend made by mixing a number of varieties to give 
just the effect desired. One might, for instance, take Burhon 
for the acid, add straight Santos for body, and Bogota for body 
and aroma, and get a very desirable blend. The proportions 



Digitized by 



Google 



MARKETING 193 

of each might be determined by testing cups made with the 
coffees in different proportions. 

Coffee is often adulterated with chicory, the prepared root of 
the chicory plant, and with various parched cereals. Such adul- 
terants may be detected by putting a teaspoonful of the ground 
coffee into a cup of cold water. If it is pure coffee, it will all 
float. Any particles sinking are adulterants. These adulter- 
ants are usually harmless. In England and France it is thought 
that coffee is greatly improved by the addition of chicory, from 
10 to 30 per cent being added. 

Coffee is served in many ways. 

French Breakfast Coffee, Caf6 au lait means strong coffee 
served with boiling hot milk, usually half coffee and half milk. 

Black Coffee, Caf^ noir is usually served as an after dinner 
coffee. It is very strong and many prefer to drink it "clear." 

Caft demi-tasse means a small cup of coffee served usually 
after the rest of the dinner. 

Adding plain or whipped cream to Caf6 noir makes Caf^ h la 
Crtme. 

Vienna Coffee is served with whipped cream and is made by 
passing the steam through the coffee frequently so that the 
aroma, may be retained. 

Creole Coffee is made by percolating the coffee very slowly. 
At intervals of five minutes boiling water is poured over the 
freshly ground coffee in the filter. A very strong liquor is thus 
obtained. It may be kept in an air-tight bottle and used to 
make coffee as required. A teaspoonful to a cup of hot water 
may be sufficient. 

Turkish Coffee is not allowed to boil but is made by adding 
cold water to powdered coffee. When served it is warmed 
but not strained. 

Dutch Coffee is prepared by percolating cold water through 
pulverized coffee. The process takes about four hours and pro- 
duces a coffee of great strength. 

Coffee is usually bought from the store in cans or sealed 



Digitized by 



Google 



194 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

packages. A coffee house has made a blend or mixture that 
appeals to the taste of the blenders and then it is advertised 
and the public is induced to buy. This usually gives a uniform 
product and saves considerable trouble to the purchaser. If 
one had the time and convenient apparatus to roast and grind 
the coffee the same quality could be obtained at about half 
the cost. 

The names of the different classes of coffee are derived from 
the names of the places from which they are supposed to be 
shipped — Mocha coffee, coming from Mocha in Arabia; 
Java coffee, coming from the island of that name in the East 
Indies; and Rio coffee, coming from Brazil. Formerly there 
was much deception in naming coffees. Any small coffee bean 
was called Mocha, regardless of its origin. This may be readily 
seen to be the case inasmuch as five times as much Mocha 
coffee was sold in the United States as was shipped from Mocha. 
The pure food laws have stopped this abuse and now require 
accurate labeling of coffees sold, whether separate or in blends. 

Brazil produces more coffee than any other country. The 
best known varieties from this country are the RiOj the beans of 
which are heavy in body and strong in flavor, and the Santos, 
the beans of which are milder than the Rios and give a smooth 
and pleasing flavor. Burbon Santos coffee has a small bean and 
an acid flavor. It was often sold for Mocha. 

Columbia is growing in importance as a coffee producing 
country. Bogota and Bucaramanga are the best known Colum- 
bian coffees. Bogota is the basis of a number of high- 
priced blends. 

Bucaramanga coffee is especially valued for its fine aroma. 

Mexico produces some very fine coffee. The Tepic, which is 
said to be developed from a Mocha shrub, was formerly called 
Mexican Mocha and makes a very fine, aromatic coffee. 

Mexican Pea Berry is a variety produced from a shrub that 
produces a small berry resembling a pea. This coffee is con- 
sidered of the highest class and very little of it is exported. 



Digitized by 



Google 



MARKETING 195 

Many other varieties are exported from Me^^ico under the 
general term Mexican Coffee. 

Java and other East Indian islands produce coffees that have 
long been standards of excellence; the largest quantity comes 
from the island of Java and is known as "Java." 

Arabia produces the coffee known as Mocha, named from a 
shipping point once of some importance, but now little used. 
The true Mocha bean is small and round. The coffee made 
from it is creamy, rich, a little acid, and very fragrant. 

A number of years ago the blend known as "Best Java and 
Mocha" was considered the best that the world produced in 
coffees. Many other localities have produced coffees equally 
as good, and blends of these other coffees now seem to be even 
more popular than blends of Mocha and Java. 



Digitized by 



Google 



196 MEASURING 

Measuring 

There may be — ^in fact, evidence proves that there are — good cooks 
who seemingly never measure anything, but by "about so much of this," 
and "a pinch of that," bring about results so delicious that the would-be 
follower at once determines to throw rules to the winds and try the same 
way. Good cooks always measure — one by the cup and spoon, because she 
must; another by the judgment and experience long years of doing the 
same thing over and over again have given her; and the chances are that, 
unless you have the rare gift of cooking straight from the gods, you would 
better cUng to exact measures and weights if you wish the best result 
every time, instead of once in a while. 

64 drops =1 teaspoon 

4 saltspoons liquid — 1 teaspoon 

3 teaspoons =1 tablespoon 

3 teaspoons dry material =1 tablespoon 

!= 1 wine glass 
= J gill 
= icup 

16 tablespoons of Uquid =1 cup 

16 tablespoons dry material =1 cup 

8 heaping tablespoons dry material =1 cup 

4 cups Uquid =1 quart 

4 cups flour =1 quart 

4 cups flour =1 pound 

2 cups soHd butter =1 poimd 

i cup butter = i pound 

2 Clips granulated sugar =1 poimd 

2i cups powdered sugar =1 pound 

1 pint milk or water =1 pound 

9 large eggs or 10 medium =1 pound 

1 rdimd tablespoon butter =1 ounce 

1 heaping tablespoon butter « 2 ounces 

1 heaping tablespoon butter = i cup 

1 heaping tablespoon sugar ^1 ounce 

2 round tablespoons coffee =1 ounce 

1 tablespoon liquid = i oimce 

butter size of egg =2 ounces 

butter size of egg = i cup 



Digitized by 



Google 



GLOSSARY 

albumen, the white of an egg. 

alkaline, having the power of forming salts with acids. 

aluminum, a bluish, silver-white metal, noted for its lightness. 

artichokes, aster-like plants, the flower-bracts and receptacles of which 

are used for food, 
assimilation, the process by which the nutritive material which is taken 

as food is changed to the substance of the body. 
baking, cooking by dry heat. 
baste, to moisten with melted fat or other liquid to prevent burning and 

to add flavor, 
batter, a mixture of a starchy, dry ingredient and a liquid, 
beaten "dry," said of the whites of eggs when they are beaten so much 

that Uttle flakes are thrown off. 
beaten "stiff," said of the whites of eggs when beaten until they do not 

run when inverted, 
binding, a mixture of flour and butter added to a soup to thicken it. 
bisque, a thick, rich soup made of shellfish, birds, or rabbits, 
blanch, to make nuts white by removing the skin by scalding, 
blanc mange (bla manzh')) a dessert made of gelatin or cornstarch and 

, milk. 
blow end, the blossom end of fruit. 
boiled dressing, a cooked salad dressing made of sugar, vinegar, butter, 

eggs, salt, pepper, and mustard, 
boiling, cooking in hot water. 

bolted flour, flour sifted through bolting, a silk cloth, 
borax, a crystalline salt used as a cleansing agent, 
braising, stewing or broiling in a covered kettle or pan. 
brick tea, a kind of tea made by grinding, steaming, and pressing tea 

leaves in a mold. 
Brie, a kind of soft cream cheese made in Brie, France, 
brisket, the breast or lower part of the chest of animals in front of and 

between the fore legs, 
brussels sprouts, a variety of cabbage, flavored like cauliflower, 
butter cake method, a method of mixing ingredients in which the butter 

and sugar are first creamed; then eggs are added, then flour and 

milk alternately. 
caf^ noir (ca' fe' nw6r), black coffee, that is, coffee without cream. 

197 



Digitized by 



Google 



198 GLOSSARY 

ca£feine (cfif' e in), a stimulating compound found in coffee and tea. 

Camembert {Ca'man'b^')> a soft, unpressed cream cheese. 

caramel, burnt sugar. 

carbohydrates, compounds composed of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen. 

casein (eft'se In), the proteid of milk. 

cassava (ea sa'va), a plant, manioc, having fleshy rootstocks, which yield 

a nutritious starch, 
casserole, a baked dish of meat or vegetable combined with bread or 

cracker crumbs, 
caustic, burning, corroding. 

caviare (cftv'i are'), the salted roe of the sturgeon or other large fish. 
Cayenne (Ca 6n'), red pepper, 
cellulose, the paper-like substance composing the walls of animal and 

vegetable cells, 
cereals, grains. 
chowder, a dish made of fresh fish or clams, biscuit and onions stewed 

together. 
coagulate, to curdle or clot. 

composite, a food composed of ingredients having different food values. 
compote dish (€6m'p5t), a fancy dish for holding a mold of jelly or other 

relish. 
condiment, something used to season food, 
corer, a utensil used for removing the core from apples, 
cottolene, a product of cottonseed used as lard. 
cream, to rub or beat butter until it is creamy. 
cream soup, the strained pulp of a vegetable combined with milk and a 

binding, 
croquettes, fried balls made of minced meat, fowl, rice, or other ingredients, 
crouton {evQ t6n'), a small cube of toasted bread. 
curdle, to thicken. 

curd, the coagulated, or thickened, part of milk. 

cut in shortening, to mix lard or butter with flour by means of a knife, 
denatured, having the nature changed. 
desiccated, preserved by drying. 
dessert (de §6rt'), a service of fruits or sweetmeats at the close of a dinner 

or limchean. 
diced, cut into small cubes. 
dietary, pertaining to the diet. 

doily, a small ornamental piece of linen or lace, usually round. 
double boiler, a cooking utensil consisting of two covered basins, one 

uiside the other. 
Dover egg beater, an egg beater operated by means of a wheel and a crank. 



Digitized by 



Google ' 



GLOSSARY 199 

dredge, to sprinkle with flour. 

drippings, the fat that is left from cooking meat. 

drop batter, a batter thick enough to break from the spoon when held 

suspended. 
Edam, a Dutch pressed cheese made in balls, 
edible, fit to be eaten. 
entree (an'trg), a side dish, 
extension sieve, a sieve with sUding wires on either side to serve as a 

support. 
fibrous, consisting of fibers, or like fibers. 
filtered, strained through cloth, paper, sand, or charcoal, 
firm custard, custard cooked without stirring, 
fold in, to combine the beaten whites of eggs with a batter without 

beating. 
fondue, a dish made of cheese, eggs, butter, and seasonings. 
French dressing, an uncooked salad dressing made of oUve oil, vinegar, 

and seasonings. 
fricaseeing, stewing fowls or other meat cooked in a gravy. 
fudge, a kind of soft candy made of milk, sugar, and chocolate or maple 

sugar. 
garbage, waste animal or vegetable matter. 
garlic, a plant resembling the onion. 

garnishing, something put on or around a dish of food for ornament, 
gas plate, a simple plate attachment connected with the gas pipe and 

used for cooking. 
gelatin, animal jelly. 

glazed, covered with a coating of white of egg or melted sugar, 
gluten, a nutritious element of food found in flour. 
Graham flour, imbolted wheat flour, 
hominy, maize hulled and broken for food. 

junket, a cream cheese, or ciurds and cream, sweetened and flavored, 
leavening agent, something added to a batter to make it light, 
legume, a plant like the pea and bean, 
lentil, a plant with flattened, lens-shaped seeds which are cooked hke 

peas or beans. 
lime water, a water solution of slaked lime used in medicine, 
liquid custard, a custard stirred constantly while cooking, 
lukewarm, neither hot nor cold. 

macaroni, a paste made of wheat flour and dried in long, slender tubes, 
marinate, to soak for a time in oil or vinegar. 
marjoram (mar'jo ram), a mint used for flavoring, 
masticate, to chew. 



Digitized by 



Google 



200 GLOSSARY 

mayonnaise (mS,'o nfls')) a thick salad dressing made of raw yolks of eggs 

beaten with oil and vinegar, and seasonings. 
meringue (mg r&ngO, a composition of powdered sugar and beaten whites 

of eggs, used on puddings, pies, and fruits. 
Neufchatel (Nii'^ha tel'), a kind of soft white cheese made from sweet 

milk. 
neutralize, to destroy the effect of. 
nougat (noo'ga), a kind of candy made with nuts stirred into a sugar 

paste, 
oleomargarine (6le o mar'ga ren), a substitute for butter made of beef 

suet, lard, and cottonseed oil. 
omelet, a dish consisting of eggs beaten up with milk or water and then 

cooked in a frying pan. 
omelet pan, a hght-weight oval or round frying pan. 
paprika (pa'pri ka), the dried ripened fruit of the pepper plant, 
paraffin, a waxy substance, used in making candles, preserving food, and 

so forth. 
parboil, to boil until partly cooked, 
pasteurize, to check or prevent fermentation in fluids. 
pastry, food having a crust made of paste. 
peanut butter, a paste made of ground peanuts and water. 
pilaf (pi laf'), rice boiled with meat, fowl, or fish. 
pimento, allspice, 
pinoche (pi n5'che), a kind of soft candy made of brown sugar, usually 

with nuts. 
pinon (p6 nyon'), a pine-producing, edible seed. 

pistachio (pis ta'^hi o), a tree of southern Europe having a greenish seed. . 
poach, to cook (an egg) by breaking (it) into boiling water. 
pour batter, a batter thin enough to pour. 
proteid, a food containing carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, and sulphur, 

and often phosphorus and other elements. 
pur^e (pu'reO; a thick cream soup. 
ramekin, an earthen dish for baking various foods prepared with bread 

crumbs. 
rancid, having a rank taste, 
refining, freeing from impurities. 

relish, something taken with food to render it more palatable. 
rennet, the lining of the stomach of a calf, used for curdling milk, 
ricer, a utensil for preparing mashed potatoes for the table. 
Roquefort (R6k'f6r'), a highly flavored, blue-molded cheese, made from 

the milk of ewes and cured in caves. 
saccharine, a coal-tar product remarkable for its sweetness. 



Digitized by 



Google 



GLOSSARY 201 

salsify (s&l'sl (f), a plant the root of which tastes like oysters; vegetable 
oyster. 

samovar, a metal urn Tised for making tea. 

saute (s6'tgO» to cook in a little fat. 

scalloped, baked with cracker or bread crmnbs. 

scrambled (eggs), eggs cooked with milk. 

service plate, the plate upon which the plates of the courses of a dinner 
(except the last course) are placed. 

shortening agents, materials added to a batter to make it tender. 

sieve, a utensil with a fine mesh wire, used for sifting. 

silence cloth, a thick pad or cloth laid imder a table cloth. 

sinuner, to cook slowly in water without boiUng. 

sirup (sTr'up), a thick, sticky hquid. 

skewer, a wooden or metal pin for keeping meat in form while roasting. 

skimmer, a utensil to clear scum from a liquid. 

soggy, heavy and wet. 

soluble, that may be dissolved in liquid. 

spaghetti (spa g6t'tl), a kind of macaroni made into smaller tubes 

spatula, a flexible, thin-bladed knife. 

spinach (spln'^j), an herb cultivated for its leaves, which are eaten boiled. 

stale, not freshly made. 

steaming, cooking by placing over boiling water. 

sterilized, rendered free from bacteria by heat or by chemicals. 

tannin, a strong acid found in tea. 

tapioca, a coarse-grained preparation of cassava starch obtained by heat- 
ing it while moist. 

theine (the'In), the same as caffeine. 

tuber, a fleshy underground stem. 

tureen, a large, deep dish to hold soup for the table. 

utensil, an instrument used in the kitchen. 

vegetable brush, a brush used for cleaning vegetables. 

vegetarian, one who does not eat animal food. 

vermicelli (vAr'me s6l1), a paste of a small grained wheat forced through 
small pipes till it takes a slender, worm-like form. 

whey, the water part of coagulated milk. 

wire whisk, a utensil for beating eggs. 

Worcestershire (sauce) (Wdos' ter shdr), a highly seasoned relish used 
with meats. 

yeast, a substance consisting of the cells of certain fungi, used as a leaven- 
ing agent. 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



INDEX 



Agent, leavening — air .... 124 

Baking powder 116 

Heat 114 

Soda 118 

Steam 113 

Almonds 88 

Salted 86 

Apple, baked 14 

Barley 70 

Basting 15 

Batters 132 

Definition 133 

Drop 120 

Leavening of . 135 

Modifications of 133 

Pour 114 

Binding 44 

Biscuit, baking powder. . . .139 

Drop 137 

Soda 140 

Brazil nuts 89 

Brussels sprouts 31 

Cabbage in white sauce ... 31 

Cake, baking of 135 

Butter method 127 

Devil's food 128 

Flavoring, 136 

Materials for 135 

One egg 128 

Plain 125 

Testing oven for 126 

Caramel sauce 58 

Carrots, creamed 32 

Cauliflower, creamed .... 31 

Celery, creamed 32 

Cellulose 15 



PAGB 

Cereals 66 

Chestnuts 89 

Cocoanuts 90 

Coffee 172 

Boiled 169 

Filtered 171 

Combination, peanut and potato 89 
Combining ingredients: 

Batter method 134 

. Butter cake method .... 134 

Composite dishes 76 

Cooker, fireless 56 

Cooking 9 

Reasons for 10,11 

Com 67 

Com cake, golden 122 

Rich 122 

Com meal mush 58 

Cornstarch mold 53 

Croutons 47 

Custard, bread pudding . . . 107 

Caramel 104 

Chocolate 107 

Facts about 105 

Floating island 107 

Kinds 103 

White 102 

YeUow 101 

Dough, soft 138 

Stiff 140 

Dredging flour 148 

Eggs 109 

A la goldenrod ...... 109 

Dropped on toast 107 

Experiments 92 

In a nest 108 



203 



Digitized by 



Google 



204 



INDEX 



PAGE 

Eggs, poached 94 

Scalloped 108 

Scrambled 100 

Stuffed 108 

Food, functions of 10 

Forks, placing of 29 

French salad dressing . . . .156 

Frosting, cold cream 131 

Plain boiled 129 

Simple uncooked 131 

Uncooked 131 

YeUow 132 

Fruit rolls 141 

Fudge, chocolate 82 

Cocoanut 84 

Funnel, pie 150 

Garnishes 99, 101 

Gems, com meal 121 

Glasses, placing of ..... 37 

Griddle cakes, bread .... 114 

Com 119 

Graham 119 

Sour milk 117 

Wheat 118 

Wholewheat 119 

Guests, seating 106 

Knives, placing of 26 

Laboratory, cooking. . . . 11, 13 

Macaroni and cheese .... 75 

Baked 77 

With tomato sauce 77 

With white sauce 77 

Manners, table 

16, 19, 21, 25, 28, 34, 37, 
38, 45, 47, 49, 54, 60, 62, 64, 
66, 73, 75, 81, 83, 85, 95, 99, 
101, 104, 106, 113, 117, 120, 

122, 124, 139, 145, 151, 157, 170 

Marinate 157 

Meringue 152 

Muffins, graham 119 



PAGE 

Muffins, one-egg 121 

Sour-milk 121 

Sour-milk Graham .... 121 

Twin mountain 123 

Napkins, placing of * 34 

Nougat 84 

Peanut 80 

Nuts . 85-91 

Oatmeal mush 65 

Oats 69 

Omelet, plain 96 

Onions, creamed 32 

Glazed 26 

Sauteed 24 

ParboiUng 40 

Pastry, chopped 149 

Plain 147 

With baking powder . . . .149 
Peanut and potato combination 85 

Peanuts 90 

And rice • . . 86 

Peas, creamed 32 

Pecans 89 

Pie, apple 152 

Cream 154 

Custard 152 

Peach or apple 149 

Pilaf, Turkish 63 

Pinoche 82 

Pinons 90 

Pistachio nuts 90 

Pop-overs 112 

Popped com, sugared .... 82 

Potatoes 22 

Baked 20 

Creamed 32 

Glazed, sweet 26 

Mashed 18 

Sweet ^ 41 

Puree 50 

Split Pea, Lentil or Bean . . 46 

Digitized by LjOOQIC 



INDEX 



205 



PAOB 

Puree, lima beans 51 

Rice 67 

Boiled 64 

Steamed with dates .... 61 

With cheese 64 

Roasting 9 

Rolls, fruit 141 

Rye 70 

Sago 70 

Pudding 71 

Salad, dressing 160 

Cream 165 

French 156 

Easter 163 

Fruit 161 

Lettuce and radish . . . .155 

Potato 158 

Remarks on . . . 157, 162, 164 

Waldorf 165 

Salsify, creamed 32 

Sandwiches, cheese and English 

walnut 167 

Date 168 

Egg 166 

Ham with sauce tartare . . .167 

Ham with white sauce . . . 168 

How to serve 168 

Lettuce 166 

Nut 166 

Olive and pimento 167 

Ribbon 167 

Sliced ham 167 

Sauce, white, one 27 

Two 29 

Saute 24 

Scones, cream 141 

Serving guests 

. . 47, 50, 62, 76, 83, 117, 127 

Order of 54, 60 



PAGE 

Shortcake 143 

Old-fashioned ..'.... 146 

No. 1 146 

No. 2 146 

Shortening 136 

Simmer 46 

Soups 43, 51 

Cream 45, 50 

Cream of celery 51 

Cream of pea 51 

Cream of potato 43 

Cream of tomato 48 

Serving 39, 44 

Squash 37 

Starch 52, 55 

Experiments 52 

Steaming 38 

Sugar 78 

Kinds of 79 

Syrup, lemon 117 

Table, setting, 16, 19,21,25,28, 
30, 34, 37, 38, 45, 47, 50, 54, 73, 75, 8 1 

Tapioca 70 

Pudding 74 

Tea 175 

Value of in dietary . . . .179 
Teaspoons, placing of .... 30 

Toast 95 

Tomatoes 41 

Scalloped 35 

Stuffed 33 

Turnips, creamed 32 

Vanilla 55 

Vegetables . 39 

Rules for cooking 40 

Uncooked 41 

Walnuts, English 88 

Wheat 67 

Macaroni 68 

White Mountain cream . . . 130 



Digitized by 



Google 



RECIPES 



Digitized by 



Google 



RECIPES 



Digitized by 



Google 



RECIPES 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



YB 67836. 




M 202 ^^€G3 
V.J. 



THE UNIVERSITY OF CAUFORNIA LIBRARY 



Digitized by 



Google 



