TX 

A*5 



. . ■ • • 




I 







les 



A D ; 


JP% 


epared with 


(W im v oil 


-cooked and 


r 


v^v^ JnyJ 


are not pos- 


sible wit 


^SfeSiP^ 


cereal food 


made in 




rved fruit or 


with crc 




r eaten as a 


breakfas 




urishing and 


satisfyinj 






Shn 




ried, cooked, 


drawn ii 




the cleanest, 


purest c 




aking many 


wholesome 


'Shredded Wheat Dishes" will be found in tl 


lis book. 



SHREDDED WHEA T is made in two forms : BISCUIT, for 
breakfast or any meal; TRISCUIT, the Shredded Wheat 
Wafer, eaten as a toast for luncheon or any other meal with 
butter, cheese or marmalades. Both the Biscuit and Tris- 
cuit should be heated in the oven to restore crispness before 
serving. Our new Book, "The Wonders of Niagara," is 
sent free, post paid, for the asking. 



Made by THE SHREDDED WHEA T COMPANY, Niagara Falls, N. Y. 




-O 




Makes 
Lightest, 
Whitest, t& 
Finest 
Cakes 



AotLr 

RISING 

I FLOUR 



SWANS DOWN 

f PREPARED 1 
L Not Self-Rising J 

CAKE FLOUR 

made especially for use in making fine cakes 
and pastries. 

SURPRISE YOUR FAMILY AND FRIENDS BY 

THE EXCELLENCE OF YOUR CAKES 

AND PASTRIES. 



*OBM E-12 



IGLEHEART BROTHERS 

Evansville, Ind. 



All Alpha Phi Fraternity Members 

SHOULD HAVE 

Kimball's Metal Polish 

IN THEIR PANTRY 




Class TX 7 IS 
lionk ,A45_ 

( opyriglil N° 



COPYRIGHT DEPOSIT. 



Jl Household Word 
for thirty Years 

C. M. KIMBALL CO. 

Winthrop, Mass. 



DELICIOUS DESSERTS MP ICE CREAM 



NESNAH 

Exquisite 

Flavors 

are: 

Vanilla 

Raspberry 

Lemon 

Orange 

Almond 

Chocolate 






Desserts 



pm$? TASTES 
_ GOOD" 

-te- 

fir 



104 |van7Ila}-|q« 

thk^unket'folks \ 



ChrHsiHaftLaWatoiy. little Falfe.N& 



NESNAH 

Ice 

Cream 
is: 

Rich and 

Delicious 

Easy to 

Make 

and 

Inexpensive 



1-6 size regular package 



Nesnah Desserts are new. Also they are dif- 
ferent from all other desserts on the market. They 
contain no gelatine. 

Nesnah has the great advantage of being made 
without cooking, and is the easiest to prepare of all 
desserts. 

Nesnah in six special flavors offers much variety. 
This dessert, which you prepare with milk, is very 
delicious and healthful, and especially attractive if 
served with crushed fruits or whipped cream. 

Nesnah makes an ice cream of superior quality, 
smooth, fine-grained and of much delicacy of flavor 
and texture. 

NESNAH, 10c A PACKAGE AT YOUR GROCERS 

PUT UP BY 

"The Junket Folks," LittleFalls, NX 



RHODES BROTHERS COMPANY 

IMPORTERS AND RECEIVERS ON COMMISSION 

Groceries and Provisions 

Fish of all kinds in Season 

WHOLESALE AND RETAIL 



Special Attention given to Luncheon and 
Dinner Party Orders 



BOSTON BROOKLINE ROXBURY 
MASSACHUSETTS 



You will never k now 

how good it is 

Unless you Buy a First Package 

of 

Freihofer's Egg Macaroni 

We Know, you will, Buy More 
Absolutely Pure, handled wholly by machinery, so it is " Per- 
fectly Clean " and a Flavor such as none other can supply 

EGG ELBOW MACARONI AND SPAGHETTI 

EGG STRAIGHT MACARONI AND SPAGHETTI 

EGG NOODLES, EGG SOUP PASTELS 

All made with Eggs, and better for that reason 

Send for our Recipes of New Dishes 

FREIHOFER BAKING CO. 

PHILADELPHIA BOSTON 



O R O N A Cleans Aluminum Perfectly 

NO ACID 
NO FREE ALKALI 

' Cleans everything but a guilty 
conscience." 

A NEW IDEA IN SOAP 

Orona Lily Cream Soap 

Not only can you use this soap on the hands but it is 
wonderfully efficient in cleaning delicate fabrics, such as laces, 
etc. When washed with ORONA stains which have re- 
maind in them for years will almost magically disappear. 

Best Dealers Everywhere 

ORONA MANUFACTURING COMPANY 
BOSTON 





The DOMESTIC 



First and Best 
VACUUM CLEANER 




The Domestic Vacuum Cleaner is the greatest cleaning device ever per- 
fected. It requires no electricity, no hand- pumping ; you simply run it over 
the floor like a carpet sweeper. Turning the wheels creates a vacuum which 
draws air through the nozzle at the rate of more than 25,000 cubic inches 
per minute. With this air comes all the dust, dirt, germs, moths, etc., from 
carpets and rugs, and even the dust from the floor beneath the rugs and carpets. 
Manufactured and Sold by 

DOMESTIC VACUUM CLEANER CO. 

Head Office, Factory and Mills, Worcester, Mass. 
Branches at Peoria, 111., San Francisco, Cal., Toronto, Canada. 



y 3c ~ > 



Always Stand the Test 

The recent examinations of food products by state 
food officials, show once more the high character of 
Hartshorn's VANILLA and other Hartshorn Extracts. 

HARTSHORN'S EXTRACTS can always be de- 
pended upon for character and strength. They comply 
with all pure food laws and are even better than the 
laws require. 

HARTSHORN'S EXTRACTS — made on honor 
for over fifty years. 

E. HARTSHORN & SONS, 
220 Milk Street, BOSTON, Mass. 



< *V< 



<£''•» 




SAUSAGE 



CAN BE OBTAINED FROM: 

Otis Simonds, 45 F. H. Market, Boston ; Buxbaum, 284 Har- 
vard St., Brookline; Bliss, 152 N. Main St., Fall River; Lester E. 
Smith, Lexington ; Hervey & Company, Medford ; Hancock & Son, 
North Attleboro ; Holden & Stone, Pittsfield ; E. W. Woodman Co., 
Salem ; A. A. Call, Springfield ; H. N. Thomas, Swampscott ; Cobb, 
Bates & Yerxa, Taunton. 

MILO C. JONES 

FORT ATKINSON, WIS. 




Use JU/aniZe Floor Finish 

Use ffifanize Interior Finish 

Use XfantZe Spar Finish 

Use ffiUanJZe White Enamel 



YOUR HOME 

Whatever work you want done 
around the House there is a 



KYANIZE FINISH FOR IT 



For Floors, Linoleums 
and Oil Cloths, 

For standing finish 
and all inside work, 

For outside doors, ex- 
posed work, Motor 
Boat or Canoe, 

For furniture and iron 
beds, 

Each the absolute best for the purpose intended. 
Your money bac\ if Kyanize doesn't do all V)e claim. 

BOSTON VARNISH COMPANY 

Everett Station BOSTON, MASS. 

A VAST DIFFERENCE exists between a mixture of fine bran with 
white flour and a genuine grinding of the entire wheat fruit as in the original 

of the ENTIRE WHEAT 

We should be pleased to send you 
oui Booklet of Recipes. 
Have you tried 

WHEATLET 

for breakfast ? 

FRANKLIN MILLS CO., BATAVIA, N. Y. 




Heckers' Cream Breakfast Rice 

COOKS IN 9 MINUTES 

For {Breakfast . . 

'Dainty 'Dishes and Desserts 



D 




ID 



D 



Also Heckers' Whole Grain Uncoated Rice 



IN POUND SANITARY PACKAGES 



Write for Special Rice Cook Book 



HECKER CEREAL COMPANY 



Produce Exchange 



New York City 



When your order comes from the 
grocer's — make sure he has sent 
Kingsford's — not an inferior corn starch 

Kingsf ord's Corn Starch 

has been a favoritewith good cooks 
for fifty years — for delicate cus- 
tards and puddings, for thickening 
gravies and sauces — to mix with 

the flour for pie 
f crust, cakes, breads 

and griddle cakes. 

Send a postcard today for Kings* 
ford's COOK BOOK— recipes for 
168 of the best dishes you ever ate 

T. KINGSFORD & SON 
Oswego, N. Y. 

National Starch Co., Successors 




Hot Griddle Cakes with Karo 

• 
—Try it for breakfast 
—the most delicious 
syrup you ever tasted 




mp 



is fine on hot biscuit. 

The children like plain 
bread and Karo better than 
a richer dessert. And 

Karo is nourishing and digestible — a real food. Use 

it in cooking. Make Karo Candies. 

Karo Cook Book— fifty pages, including thirty perfect recipes for 

home candy making— free. Send your name on a post card, today. 

Corn Products Refining Co. 

P. O. Box 161 HEW YORK 



IN all receipts in this book calling for bak- 
ing powder use " Royal." Better and 
finer food will be the result, and you will 
safeguard it against alum. 

In receipts calling for one teaspoonful of 
soda and two of cream of tartar, use two 
spoonfuls of Royal, and leave the cream of 
tartar and soda out. You get the better food 
and save much trouble and guess work. 

Look out for alum baking powders. Do 
not permit them to come into your house 
under any consideration. They add an in- 
jurious substance to your food, destroying in 
part its digestibility. All doctors will tell 
you this, and it is unquestionable. The use 
of alum in whiskey is absolutely prohibited ; 
why nQt equally protect the food of our 
women and children ? 

Alum baking powders may be known by 
their price. Baking powders at a cent an 
ounce or ten or twenty-five cents a pound are 
made from alum. Avoid them. Use no 
baking powder unless the label shows it is 
made from cream of tartar. 



THE ETA COOK BOOK 



PUBLISHED BY 



THE BOSTON ALUMN/E CHAPTER 



OF 



Alpha Phi Fraternity 



A$ 



' '{Be to her virtues uery £iW, 
Be to her faults a little blind. 



BROOKLINE, MASS. 

HUNTINGTON ART PRESS, BOOK AND JOB PRINTERS 

1914 



^ 



■fi 






Copyright, 1914 

The Boston Alumnae Chapter 

of 

Alpha Phi Fraternity 



JUN 15 1914 



©CIA376293 



We may live without poetry, music and art; 

We may live without conscience, and live without heart; 
We may live without friends; we may live without books; 

But civilized man cannot live without cooks. 



He may live without books, what is knowledge but grieving? 

He may live without hope, what is hope but deceiving? 
He may live without love, what is passion but pining? 

But where is the man that can live without dining? 

— Owen Meredith. 




FOREWORD 

| HE Boston Alumnae Chapter of Eta, of 
Alpha Phi, takes great pleasure in pre- 
senting this little Cook Book to its mem- 
bers and their friends. Each alumna of 
Eta will certainly prize these recipes, not only for their 
practical value, but for the pleasant associations 
which they will recall of college days. It is hoped 
that the friends outside the fraternity will find the 
book useful and suggestive. 

Where several duplicate recipes have been contri- 
buted, it has been necessary for the interest of the 
book to make a choice and discard all but one or 
two. All others, with a few exceptions, have been 
published in their original form. 

The attention of each reader is called to the ad- 
vertisements. It is hoped that the firms herein repre- 
sented will receive generous patronage. 

Helen Dorr Volpe, 
Gertrude Burr O'Neil, 
Maud Vaughn O'Neil, 
Orpha Lee Potter, 
Nina A. Adams, 
Florence A. Runnells, 

The Committee. 



ffiead, 7^o//s and cJXCuffins 



' ' 'Uhe very staff of life 
*Che joy of a husband 
''Che pride of the wife. 



Baked Brown Bread 

Two cups graham flour, one cup wheat flour, one- 
half cup dark molasses, one-half cup sugar, two cups 
sour milk, one-half cup raisins, two even teaspoons soda, 
one even teaspoon salt. Let rise one hour and cook 
one hour in moderate oven. Grace Parker, '12. 

Brown Bread 

One cup molasses, two cups sour milk, one teaspoon 
soda dissolved in the sour milk, one small teaspoon 
salt, one cup corn meal, one cup graham meal, one 
cup rye meal. Steam three and one-half hours. 

Amy Bridges Rice, '86. 

Unusual Brown Bread 

Three cups rye meal, two cups corn meal, one cup 
molasses, two teaspoons soda, sour milk to make soft 
enough to pour into two-quart pail. Steam inside a 
larger pail with water for four or five hours. 

Daisy Raymond, ex-'94. 

Knox Gelatine is guaranteed to please or money back 



18 THE ETA COOK BOOK 

Boston Brown Bread 

Into the mixing bowl put one cup molasses, one 
teaspoon soda, and over these two pour one pint 
boiling water, stirring until well blended. Add one cup 
sifted white flour, one and one-half cups rye meal 
not flour, one and one-half cups Indian meal, one tea- 
spoon salt, one and one-half cups raisins slightly damp- 
ened and then floured. Steam three to four hours. 

Esther Hammond, '17. 

Brown Bread 

One cup Indian meal, one cup graham flour, one- 
half cup white flour, one heaping teaspoon soda dis- 
solved in one cup molasses, two cups sweet milk, one 
teaspoon salt. Fill coffee tins two-thirds full, cover, 
and put in covered pails part full hot water. Steam 
in oven three or four hours. 

Bran Bread 

One and one-half cups sour milk, one-half cup sugar, 
one scant cup flour, one teaspoon salt, two and one- 
half cups sifted bran, one teaspoon soda sifted with 
flour; mix all well. Bake in slow oven forty minutes. Sift 
bran only with very coarse sieve. Ruth Lamont, '15. 

Third Bread 

One cup Indian meal, one cup flour, one cup rye meal, 
one teaspoon soda, two tablespoons molasses, scant. 
Mix with water to a soft mixture. Bake in moderate 
oven. Grace Hayden Franklin, '07. 

The Knox Acidulated package contains flavoring and coloring 



THE ETA COOK BOOK 19 

Graham Bread • 
One-half cup molasses, one-half cup sugar, one tea- 
spoon soda dissolved in one cup sour milk, two cups 
graham flour. Mix in order given and bake in a mod- 
erate oven thirty to forty minutes. 

Anna Wood Richie, ex-'98. 

Graham Bread without Yeast 

Mix together two cups sifted graham flour, one cup 
wheat flour, two teaspoons Royal baking powder, 
pinch of salt. Mix one-half cup molasses with one cup 
milk ; add one well beaten egg. Mix all well together 
and bake in a slow oven for an hour. 

Emily Tay Lawrence, ex-'06. 

Graham Bread 
Two cups white flour, two cups graham flour, one 
cup sugar, four teaspoons Royal baking powder, one 
teaspoon salt, one egg y two cups milk. May be made 
plain or varied with a cup of nut meats or raisins. 
Let stand in tins twenty minutes before baking. Bake 
an hour in moderate oven. 

Ethel Britton Perry, '97. 

Oatmeal Bread 

Two cups rolled oats, two cups boiling water, two 
tablespoons shortening, two teaspoons salt, one-half 
cup sugar, one cup warm water, one yeast cake in 
one-fourth cup warm water. Pour boiling water over 
rolled oats. Let stand one hour. Then add rest of 
the ingredients and white bread flour enough to knead, 

Knox Gelatine makes desserts, salads, candies, puddings, ices, etc. 



20 THE ETA COOK BOOK 

making it quite a stiff dough. Let rise till double. 
Proceed as in ordinary white bread. All measures taken 
level. Sarah A. Cole, '95. 

Oatmeal Bread 

One cup Quaker oats, two teaspoons salt. Scald 
with two cups boiling water; add one tablespoon but- 
ter or lard. When cool enough add one-half yeast cake 
and whole wheat flour enough to make usual stiffness 
of bread. Let rise over night, cut down; when raised 
a second time, knead, let rise and bake same as white 
bread. Mabel Bancroft Phillips, '04. 

Nut Bread 

Two cups graham meal, four cups white flour, one 
cup molasses, one cup walnuts, two teaspoons soda, 
sour milk enough to make a stiff batter, salt. Put 
dry ingredients in first, then molasses. 

Avis Sherburne, '14. 

Light Nut Bread 

One egg, one-half cup sugar, one and one-fourth cups 
milk, four teaspoons Royal baking powder, three 
cups flour, one cup nut meats, salt. Let rise twenty 
minutes. Bake forty minutes or longer, slowly. 

Ruth R. Dodge, '09. 

Dark Nut Bread 

Two cups graham flour, one cup white flour, one- 
half cup sugar, one-half cup molasses, with one tea- 
spoon soda; two cups milk, one-half cup nuts. Bake 
in a bread tin one hour. Ruth R. Dodge, '09. 

Use Knox Gelatine if you would be sure of results 



THE ET A CO O K BOOK 21 

Nut Bread 

One egg, beaten light, three-fourths cup sugar, two 
cups sour milk, two teaspoons soda, three cups whole 
wheat flour, one cup white flour, one cup chopped 
walnuts, one teaspoon salt. Mix in order given and 
bake in a cake pan one hour. 

. Edna Staples Mitchell, '09. 

Nut Bread 

Scald one-half cup milk; add one-half tablespoon 
lard, one-half tablespoon butter, two tablespoons mo- 
lasses, three-fourths cup cold water, one teaspoon salt, 
one yeast cake dissolved in one-third cup luke-warm 
water, one-half cup white flour, one cup nut meats, 
two and three-fourths cups whole wheat flour. Takes 
much longer to rise than white bread. 

Gladys M. Walley, '05. 

Nut Graham Bread 

Two cups graham flour, two cups white or whole 
wheat flour, one-half cup molasses, one tablespoon 
sugar, one teaspoon soda, one cup chopped walnuts, 
two cups sour milk or buttermilk. Bake one and one- 
fourth hours in moderate oven in loaf pan. 

Ruth Wood Hoag, '99. 

English Nut Bread 

Three cups flour, one cup sugar, four scant teaspoons 
Royal baking powder, one teaspoon salt, one egg, one 
cup milk, three-fourths cup walnuts, cut in large pieces. 
Sift dry ingredients together, add beaten egg and milk. 

Simply add water and sugar to the Knox Acidulated package 



22 THE ETA COOK BOOK 

Let stand twenty minutes in pan before baking. Slice 
thin and spread with butter. 

Mollie Kingsbury Howard, '05. 

Wellesley Bread 

Five cups Franklin Mills whole wheat flour, three 
teaspoons cream of tartar, one and one-half teaspoons 
soda, two teaspoons salt, three-fourths cup molasses, 
one cup cold milk, two cups water. Makes two 
loaves. Bake one and one-half to two hours. 

Constance F. Coan, '02. 

Whole Wheat Bread 

Take one quart of tepid water, one dry yeast cake 
dissolved, two tablespoons sugar, two tablespoons 
melted butter, small teaspoon salt. Stir in five pints 
sifted flour and let stand over night. Next morning 
stir thoroughly, put into pans, let rise and bake in 
two loaves. Never knead, always stir thoroughly with 
a spoon. Use Franklin JVIills flour. 

Gertrude B. O'Neil, '06. 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit for Breakfast 

Warm the biscuit in the oven to restore crispness; 
don't burn; pour hot milk over it, dipping the milk 
over it until the shreds are swollen; then pour a little 
cream over the top of the biscuit. Or, serve with cold 
milk or cream, according to individual taste. 

Parker House Rolls 

One quart flour, one-half cup sugar, yeast cake, two 
cups scalded milk, nearly cold, butter size of an egg, 

For dainty delicious desserts use Knox Gelatine 



THE E T A CO OK B O OK 23 

and salt. Put all the ingredients into the middle of 
the flour, not stirring at all. Let it rise three or four 
hours; then knead over and cut; butter the top and 
fold over. Let stand until light. Bake ten or fifteen 
minutes. Blanche Hartwell Barber, '94. 

Coffee Rolls 

Scald a cup of milk. When cool, add a yeast cake 
dissolved in one-fourth cup of water. Add one and 
one-half cups flour and let rise. Then add one-fourth 
cup sugar, one-third cup melted butter, one teaspoon 
salt, one beaten egg, two cups flour. Let rise. Roll 
out and cut off strips. Roll between palms to about 
a pencil's diameter, and curl them up. Let rise. After 
baking, put on each a little frosting of powdered sugar 
mixed with milk. Helen M. Stevens, '05, 

Fruit Rolls 

Two cups flour, four teaspoons Royal baking- 
powder, one-half teaspoon salt, two tablespoons sugar, 
two tablespoons butter, two-thirds cup milk, one- 
third cup finely chopped raisins, two tablespoons 
finely chopped citron. Mix as baking powder biscuits. 
Roll one-quarter inch thick, brush with melted butter, 
sprinkle with fruit, sugar and cinnamon. Roll like 
jelly roll, cut off pieces three-quarters inch thick. Bake 
on buttered pan in hot oven fifteen minutes. 

Annie Caffin Swett, '08. 

Muffins 

One Qgg, beaten with one-fourth cup sugar, salt, 
one cup white flour, and one cup rye flour or entire 

Pink coloring for fancy desserts in each package of Knox Gelatine 



24 THE ETA COOK BOOK 

wheat, one tablespoon Royal baking powder, one cup 
milk. Bake fifteen or twenty minutes, not longer, in 
hot oven. Victoria M. H. Zeller, '08. 

Muffins 

One egg, one-fourth cup sugar, one cup flour, three- 
fourths cup milk, one teaspoon Royal baking powder, 
one-half teaspoon salt. This makes six muffins. 

Lena Chandler Mason, ex-' 13. 

Breakfast Muffins 

One and one-half cups flour, one-third cup sugar, 
two and one-half teaspoons Royal baking powder, 
one-fourth cup butter, one-half cup milk, one egg. Sift 
dry ingredients. Add milk, melted butter and un- 
beaten egg. Beat all together until light. Bake in hot 
oven. Florence A. Runnells, ex- '06. 

Bran Muffins 

Two cups bran, get Health bran if possible ; one cup 
flour, one-fourth cup molasses, one egg, salt, one tea- 
spoon soda, sifted with flour; one and one-half cups 
sweet milk. Bake twenty minutes in gem pans. 

Alice Hersey Monning, ex-'96. 

Mother's Bran Muffins 

One cup bran, one cup white flour, one cup sour 
milk, one-half cup sugar, one teaspoon soda, one heap- 
ing tablespoon shortening, one-half teaspoon salt. 
Mix ingredients and bake in hot oven about twenty 
minutes. Hazel K. Miller, '09. 



Knox Gelatine conies in two packages — Plain and Acidulated 
(lemon flavor) 



THE ETA COOK BOOK 25 

Wheat Muffins 

One egg, two tablespoons sugar, one cup milk, one 
heaping teaspoon Royal baking powder, two cups flour, 
one-half teaspoon salt, then two tablespoons melted 
butter. Alice Bidwell Lee, '04. 

Rolled Oats Muffins 

Two and one-half cups rolled oats, two and one- 
half cups flour, two and one-half cups sour milk, two- 
thirds cup sugar, one egg, pinch of salt, one heaping 
teaspoon soda. Bake in very hot muffin tins. 

Daisy Raymond, ex-'94. 

Oatmeal Muffins 

Soak two cups rolled oats in one and one-half cups 
sour milk over night. In morning add one-fourth cup 
melted butter, one- third cup sugar, one egg well beaten, 
one teaspoon soda, one-half teaspoon salt and one cup 
flour. Bake twenty minutes in hot oven. 

Anna Wood Richie, ex-'98. 

Rice Muffins 

Combine one cup boiled rice (boil in milk), with one 
cup milk, one teaspoon melted butter, yolks of two 
eggs, one and one-half cups flour, one tablespoon 
sugar, one-half teaspoon salt, one heaping teaspoon 
Royal baking powder. Fold the beaten whites of the 
eggs in carefully; pour into hot gem pans and bake 
in quick oven. Carrie M. Searle, '00. 

Biscuit Dough 

One and one-half cups flour, one and one-half tea- 
spoons Royal baking powder, one- half teaspoon salt, 

Try Knox Acidulated Gelatine with the lemon flavor enclosed 



26 TH E E TA COOK BO OK 

one tablespoon lard ; enough milk to make into dough. 

Lena A. Glover, '97. 
Helen Glover, '13. 

Baking Powder Biscuits 

Two cups flour, two teaspoons sugar, two tea- 
spoons Royal baking powder, one teaspoon salt, one 
full teaspoon lard worked in with fingers. Mix with 
milk to make a soft dough. Do not roll out. Pat 
with hand ; cut out ; roll in melted butter and bake in 
hot oven. Florence A. Runnells, ex-'06. 

Pin-Wheel Biscuits 

Prepare Royal baking powder mixture, bat a little 
stiffer. Roll one-quarter inch thick. Brush with melted 
butter and roll like jelh r roll. Slice three-quarters inch 
thick. Place slices in pan, sprinkle with sugar and cin- 
namon mixed, and bake fifteen minutes. 

Edith Lynch Bolster, '90. 

Sweet Bread Biscuits 

Soak all afternoon one yeast cake in one-fourth 
cup water. Add one cup milk which has been 
scalded and cooled till luke warm ; stir in flour as 
for bread and leave over night. In the morning add 
two eggs, one-fourth cup sugar, one-fourth cup melted 
butter, one teaspoon salt ; add flour as for bread and 
finish as bread, baking: in small biscuits twenty 
minutes. jRACE D. Runyon, ex-' 14. 

Bran Biscuit 

Two cups bran, one cup flour, one teaspoon soda, 

Knox Gelatine makes dainty desserts for dainty people 



THE ETA COOK BOOK 27 

one and one-half cups sour milk, one-fourth cup but- 
ter, three tablespoons molasses. Drop in gem tins 
and bake in moderate oven. 

Florence A. Runnells, ex-'06. 

Corn Cake 

One cup corn meal, one-fourth cup sugar, one-half 
teaspoon salt, one cup flour, two teaspoons Royal 
baking powder, one egg, one cup milk, one tablespoon 
melted butter. Mix in order given. 

Carrie M. Searle, '00. 

Johnny Cake 

One and one-half cups sugar, two-thirds cup butter, 
two cups milk, two cups white flour, two cups yellow 
corn meal, four eggs, add a little salt, and sift two 
teaspoons Royal baking powder with the flour. 

Alfreda Noyes Reeve, '89. 

Popovers 

Two eggs, two cups milk, two cups flour, salt. 
Stir the milk into flour a little at a time to make it per- 
fectly smooth, then add the eggs, beaten separately. 
Have the gem pan hot, and bake in a quick oven. 

Katherine I. Hodgdon, '93. 

Popovers 

One cup flour, one cup milk, one-eighth teaspoon 
salt, one egg. Mix all ingredients and beat five min- 
utes. Pour in hissing hot gem pans and bake twenty 
minutes. Alice Hersey Monning, ex-'96. 

Knox Acidulated Gelatine saves the cost, time and bother of squeez- 
ing lemons 



28 THE E T A COOK BOO K 

Crumpets or "Feather Beds" 

Two eggs, well beaten, one-half cup melted lard 
or butter, two cups milk slightly warmed, one com- 
pressed yeast, three tablespoons sugar. Flour to make 
stiff enough to drop from a spoon. Start between 
9 and 10 a. m. Stir down if very light during day. 
At 5 put in muffin tins, and let rise one hour, or until 
light. Bake in quick oven. 

Viola Brainerd Baird, '03. 

Buns 

Break one egg into a cup and fill up with milk, 
one cup sugar, one-half cup yeast, one-half cup butter, 
flour to mix a soft dough, add cinnamon. Let rise 
until light, add raisins and flour and make into buns. 
Bake and when nearly done glaze the top. 

Gertrude B. O'Neil, '06. 

Whole Wheat Griddle Cakes 

Three cups Franklin Mills flour, one-fourth cup sugar, 
one-half teaspoon salt, one egg, two teaspoons Royal 
baking powder. Mix with milk or milk and water. 
Have griddle hot. Gertrude B. O'Neil, '06. 

Graham Griddles 

One egg } one tablespoon melted butter, one teaspoon 
salt, one heaping teaspoon Ro} T al baking powder, one 
cup each of wheat flour and graham flour, and milk 
to make a batter. Helen G. Durgin, '13. 

See that the name K-N-O-X is on each package of gelatine you buy 



THE ETA COOK BOOK 



29 



Shredded Wheat Biscuit with Strawberries 

Prepare berries as for ordinary serving. Warm bis- 
cuit in oven before using. Cut or crush oblong cavity 
in top of biscuit to form basket. Fill the cavity with 
berries and serve with cream or milk. Sweeten to 
taste. Peaches, blackberries, raspberries, blueberries, 
pineapple, bananas, and other fruit, fresh or preserved, 
can be served with shredded wheat biscuit in the same 
way. 




Soup 



' ' Some like it hot, some like it cold, 
Some like it in the pot nine days old. 



Asparagus Soup 

Take tough ends of asparagus, peel and cut into 
thin slices. Cover with cold water, cook in double 
boiler one hour or more. Pour off water, add equal 
quantity of milk. Season with butter, pepper and salt. 
Thicken with flour and water. 

Susie Sanborn Cowper, '90. 



Crecy Soup 

Slice thinly two carrots, add one tablespoon butter, 
one cup boiling water. Cook until tender. Heat in 
double boiler one pint of milk, with one slice of onion. 
When carrots are tender rub through sieve. Make 
white sauce with one tablespoon butter, one table- 
spoon flour, and the hot milk, removing onion, salt- 
spoon of salt. Add carrot and cook five minutes. 

Ida M. Sawyer, '98. 

Knox Acidulated Gelatine-no bother-no trouble-no squeezing lemons 



TH E E T A CO OK BO OK 31 

Shrimp Chowder 

One can shrimp, three tablespoons butter, two 
common crackers, three cups milk, one small onion, 
one cup cold water, salt. Cream butter, add crackers ; 
scald milk with onion, remove onion and add milk to 
mixture. Add shrimp and season with salt and 
pepper. Orpha Lee Potter, '04. 

Tomato Bisque 

Put three pints milk into double-boiler, strain one 
can tomatoes, put one scant teaspoon soda into the to- 
matoes. Save out one-half cup milk and dissolve in it 
one heaping tablespoon flour, salt the flour, cook milk 
and flour. Add tomatoes, butter size of an egg, salt, 
pepper. Carrie M. Searle, '00. 

Tomato Bisque 
One quart tomatoes, stewed ; add salt and pepper 
and cook. Later, add one teaspoon soda, and let 
it boil until it stops foaming. Boil one quart milk 
in double boiler. Thicken with two tablespoons flour. 
Strain tomatoes and pour into milk. 

Elizabeth Goodwin Adams, '07. 

Mock Bisque 

One can Campbell's tomato soup, one can water, 
one can milk, one tablespoon flour, one tablespoon 
butter. Heat soup and water to boiling point, add 
very little soda, one-fourth teaspoon, then the milk. 
Melt butter, add flour, and pour soup, etc., on this. 
Add butter, and serve very hot. 

Gladys Damon, '14. 

Where recipes call for gelatine use Knox Gelatine 



32 THE ETA COOK BOOK 

Vegetable Soup 

One-fourth cup cabbage, one-fourth cup carrots, one- 
fourth cup turnips, one-fourth cup celer}', one small 
onion, one-half cup tomato, one-half cup potato cubes. 
Cut vegetables. Fry until a light brown in one heap- 
ing tablespoon butter. Add one quart boiling water, 
one teaspoon salt, and boil twent}- minutes. Add to- 
mato and potato and cook another half hour. Serve 
with or without vegetables. 

Florence Goodwin Lane, '95. 




Fish 



" Why, then, the world's mine oyster, 
Which I with sword will open. " 



Shredded Wheat Oyster, Meat or Vegetable 

Patties 

Cut oblong cavity in top of biscuit, remove top care- 
fully and all inside shreds, forming a shell. Sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, put small pieces of butter in 
bottom, and fill the shell with drained, picked and 
washed oysters. Season with additional salt and pep- 
per. Replace top of biscuit over oysters, then bits of 
butter on top. Place in a covered pan and bake in a 
moderate oven. Pour oyster liquor or cream sauce 
over it. Shell fish, vegetables, or meats may also be 
used. 

Baked Halibut 

Two slices halibut one and one-half inches thick, 
one-half pint oysters, three thin slices salt pork, cracker 
crumbs. Put slices of pork on fish tin, on pork lay 
one slice fish. Drop oysters in melted butter and then 
cracker crumbs. Put oysters on top fish, other slice 
fish with slices of salt pork on top. Bake thirty-five 

Four pints of jelly in each package of Knox Gelatine 



34 THE ETA COOK BOO K 

or iorty minutes. Baste with melted butter three or 
four times. When fish is nearly done take from oven, 
cover with cracker crumbs mixed with melted butter. 
Put back in oven to brown. Garnish with lemon. 
Serve with drawn butter. 

Sarah Ames Cole, '95. 

Haddock, a la Rarebit 

One tablespoon flour, one cup cream, one cup chop- 
ped cheese, one teaspoon mustard, salt and pepper to 
taste. Boil cream, thicken with flour, add cheese, salt, 
pepper and one egg. Lay fillet of haddock on buttered 
platter. Cover with rarebit and bake fifteen minutes 
in hot oven. Emma Mason Chandler, '00. 

Fricasseed Oysters 

One pint oysters, one tablespoon butter, cream, one 
tablespoon flour, one tablespoon butter, lemon juice, 
salt, pepper, egg. Cook oysters in butter, and drain. 
Add enough cream to oyster liquor to make one cup. 
Make sauce with flour, butter and cream. Season with 
lemon, salt, pepper. Pour sauce into beaten egg. 
Serve on toast. Florence Goodwin Lane, '95. 

Scalloped Oysters 

One quart oysters with liquor, one cup butter 
partly melted, two eggs, two cups sweet milk, twenty- 
four crackers rolled fine, salt and pepper to taste. Beat 
eggs, add milk, crackers, butter and oysters, seasonings. 
Bake in moderate oven about one and one-half hours. 
If half the recipe is used bake one hour. This is a fine 
dish for the tireless cooker. Sarah A. Cole, '95. 

Knox Gelatine solves the problem of "What to have for dessert?" 



THE E TA CO OK B K 35 

Baked Salmon 

One can of salmon steak. Remove all bones and 
skin. One cup cracker or bread crumbs, one cup milk, 
a little salt. Butter the dish and put a layer of 
cracker or bread crumbs, a layer of salmon, dotted 
with butter, another layer of crumbs and another of 
salmon dotted with butter, and continue until dish is 
filled. Pour over milk and let soak well. Bake for 
twenty minutes. 

Dorothy E. Hodgkins, '11. 

Creamed Salmon 

Cook to a paste one-half cup milk and one-half cup 
soft bread crumbs, add one can (two cups) salmon 
boned and flaked, season with salt, pepper and lemon 
juice. Fold in two eggs beaten until very light, steam 
in buttered mould thirty to thirty-five minutes. Serve 
with one cup white sauce to which has been added 
one-half cup peas. Bertha Crocker Merrill, '97. 

Salmon Loaf 

One large or two small cans salmon, one and one- 
half cups cracker crumbs, three or four eggs, scant one- 
half cup melted butter, salt, pepper and parsley. 
Mix cracker, salt and pepper, add one cup cold 
water, yolks of eggs, and salmon. Add butter, beat 
whites stiff, and add quickly. Steam one hour in bread 
loaf pan set in steamer. Garnish with peas. 

Helen L. Follansbee, '00. 

Shrimps 

Make a rich cream sauce from one pint sweet cream 

Xnox Gelatine is economical — Four Pints in each package 



36 THE ETA COOK BOOK 

heated to the steaming point, one tablespoon flour, and 
a little butter. Add salt, paprika and a few drops of 
celery essence, one cup chopped walnut meats, and 
one pint shrimps cut in halves (canned shrimps 
may be used). Garnish with parsley. Lobster or any 
white fish may be substituted for the shrimps. An 
attractive way to serve this is in ramekins, putting 
buttered crumbs on top and baking a few minutes to 
brown the crumbs. 

Alice Hersey Monning, ex-' 96. 




c%Ceat and <5%Ceat Sauces 



' ' Some hae meat that cannot eat, 
Jlnd some would eat that want it, 
{But we hae meat and we can eat, 
Sae let the Lord be thank it. ' ' 



Baked Beef and Bacon 

One pound lower round beef chopped fine, one-half 
pound bacon sliced thin, one egg, and one cup cracker 
or bread crumbs. Mix all together with about a cup 
of milk and put the slices of bacon around the sides, 
top and bottom. Bake covered about one-half hour. 

Dorothy E. Hodgkins, '11. 

Beef, en Casserole 

Take round steak and cut into pieces suitable for 
serving. Into a buttered baking dish (casserole pre- 
ferred) put a layer of the steak. Add salt, pepper and 
bits of butter. Then add a layer of chopped onions 
and a layer of chopped celery. Then repeat the lay- 
ers of meat, onion and celery, having the top layer 
celery. Cover all with canned tomato. Cover the 
baking dish and bake slowly two and one-half hours. 
This requires a generous quantity of salt and pepper. 
Alice Hersey Monning, ex-'96. 

Knox Gelatine is measured ready for use — each package is divided 
into two envelopes 



38 THE ETA COOK BOOK 

Beef, a la Mode 

Five pounds lower round beef, two turnips, two 
beets, two carrots, medium sized onion. Chop vege- 
tables in cutter and brown them slightly in large piece 
of butter. Sear meat first, rubbed in salt, in vegetables 
and butter. Put vegetables in bean-pot, on top of them 
the meat with three cloves and a little pepper. Cover 
with water and bake four to five hours. Before serv- 
ing add juice one-half lemon. Drain off water. Serve 
meat surrounded by the vegetables. 

Florence Goodwin Lane, '95. 

Beef Loaf 

One and one-half pounds round steak, two cups 
cracker crumbs, two teaspoons sage, one teaspoon 
each salt and pepper, one and one-half cups water, butter 
size of an egg. Shape into a loaf and bake, basting 
now and then. Maria Grey Kimball, '02. 

Hamburg Loaf 
To one and one-half pounds hamburg steak add 
three-fourths cup cracker crumbs, three-fourths cup 
milk, one egg beaten, one teaspoon salt, one teaspoon 
poult^ dressing. Shape into a loaf. Bake forty-five 
minutes in buttered pan with a little water around 
loaf. Orpha Lee Potter, '04. 

Swedish Loaf 

Two pounds lower round, one and one-half cups 
bread crumbs, one egg, salt, pepper, onion if liked, 
milk to moisten. Pass meat through chopper. Beat 
egg into mixing bowl and mix thoroughly with meat, 



Try the Knox Gelatine recipes found in this book 



THE ETA COOK BOOK 39 

salt and pepper. Add alternately bread crumbs and 
milk, stirring constantly so that the whole may be 
thoroughly moistened. The success of this dish depends 
upon the thoroughness with which the ingredients are 
blended. If an onion flavor is relished, chop two 
slices fine and add, or place whole onion in roasting 
pan. Mould mixture in shape of roast in pan, place 
butter in corners and roast one hour, basting frequently. 
Serve with brown or tomato sauce. 

Grace Potter Belisle, ex-'99. 

Braised Beef 

Three pounds under part of the round. Try out two 
thin slices of fat pork, wipe meat, sprinkle with salt 
and pepper, dredge with flour, brown entire surface 
with pork fat. Put in large earthen pudding dish, 
surround with one-fourth cup each carrot, turnip, 
onion and celery, one-half can tomatoes, one-half 
teaspoon peppercorns, few cloves in the meat; cover 
with three cups boiling water. Cover closely, bake 
four hours in slow oven, turning every half hour. 

Emily P. Burdon, '14. 

Rosalie's Steak, en Casserole 

One pound round steak cut up into pieces for serv- 
ing, salted, peppered and rolled in flour. Lay the 
pieces in the casserole and sprinkle lightly with flour 
between the layers. Peel four small onions and stick 
eight to twelve cloves in them. Cover with cold 
water and bake four hours. The baking dish must 
be tightly covered. Use fireless cooker. 

Hazel K. Miller, '09. 

Desserts can be made in a short time with Knox Gelatine 



40 THE E T A CO OK BOOK 

Rolled Steak, en Casserole 

Three pounds round steak, two cups bread crumbs, 
one cup salt pork chopped, two slices salt pork, two 
cups boiling water, one cup tomato, one tablespoon 
chopped onion, one tablespoon Worcestershire sauce, 
poultry dressing, allspice, celery salt, salt, pepper. Have 
the meat cut one-half inch thick in one piece. Make a 
mixture of the bread crumbs and chopped pork, highly 
seasoned and moistened with milk. Spread this on the 
meat, roll and tie tightly. Trj' out the pork, fry the 
onion in it and then brown the meat roll. Remove 
from spider and place in casserole. Make a sauce as fol- 
lows : Pour the boiling water into the spider, thicken 
with flour, add tomato and the seasonings. When it 
has boiled once, pour it over the meat and cook in a 
slow oven four hours. Grace F. Seabury, '96. 

Cream Gravy for Beefsteak 

After broiling steak in a hot spider pour one or two 
cups of thick cream into the fat remaining in the pan, 
cook three minutes, season. 

Ethel Brixton Perry, '97. 

Porterhouse Steak (California Style) 

Wipe a Porterhouse steak, broil and remove to 
platter. Spread with butter and sprinkle with salt 
and pepper. Then pour over the steak the juice of one- 
half lemon, and one tablespoon Worcestershire sauce. 
Place in oven until butter melts. 

Susan Meredith Smith, '04. 

Use Knox Gelatine — the two-quart package 



THE ETA COOK BOOK 41 

Savory Beef 

Wipe and trim a thick slice of round steak, roll in 
flour and place in casserole. Add one sliced onion, one 
bay leaf, and one can tomatoes. Cover and place in 
a moderate oven. Cook slowly two hours. Add salt 
and pepper at end of the first hour. 

Susan Meredith Smith, '04. 

Oven Stew 

Two to three pounds shin of beef (small end), one 
carrot, two potatoes, one tablespoon rice, three or 
four whole cloves, one-half onion, one-half can of peas, 
one tablespoon bread-crumbs, one tablespoon tomato 
ketchup, seasoning. Have bone broken and scoop out 
about one tablespoon of the marrow, place in the ket- 
tle, add the meat cut in pieces for serving, brown in 
the fat (marrow), then add about two quarts boiling 
water and the other ingredients, reserving the pota- 
toes. Place in the oven and cook at a low heat three 
or four hours. Add the potatoes cut in pieces, one 
hour before serving. One tablespoon vinegar may be 
used instead of ketchup. Clara Came Jerome, '99. 

Dutch Casserole 

Two pounds chuck steak cut in pieces for serving, 
one-half can tomatoes, one can peas, one carrot and 
one onion diced, one-fourth cup pearl tapioca, one- 
fourth cup bread-crumbs (no crusts), about one table- 
spoon salt, pepper to taste, four cloves. Just cover 
with water one to one and one-half cups, in a two- 
quart bean-pot or casserole-dish. Add no more water. 

Knox Gelatine makes a transparent, tender, quivering jelly 



42 THE ETA COOK BOOK 

Bake five hours in a moderate oven, with cover tightly 
closed. Put everything in together, except peas. Add 
those one hour before it is done. Half this recipe 
serves seven people amply. 

Harriet Sawyer Holden, '93. 

Spanish Beef 

Two pounds hamburg, one pound sausage meat. 
Chop fine one green pepper, one teaspoon parsley, 
and one good-sized onion, salt. One cup bread crumbs, 
one tablespoon chili sauce, milk enough to mould 
(say one-half cup). Mould into a loaf-like shape, put 
three slices bacon on top, bake one and one-half hours 
in a moderate oven. Twenty minutes before it is done 
pour one-half can tomatoes around it. Strain the 
gravy. Delicious cold. 

Helena M. Bullock, Alpha, ex-'94. 

Baked Chops 

Take short lamb chops, dip in beaten Qgg, roll in 
fine cracker crumbs and sprinkle with salt. Spread 
on a pan and bake brown in oven one-half hour. 

Mabel Bancroft Phillips, '04. 

Baked Ham 

One slice ham one-half inch thick, one cup milk, one 
teaspoon mustard, one tablespoon sugar, flour. Soak 
ham in milk one hour. Remove from milk and rub 
ham with mustard and sugar, then dredge with flour. 
Pour back the milk in which it soaked and bake until 
brown. Lena Chandler Mason, ex-' 13. 

Knox Gelatine is the one dessert for all appetites 



THE E TA COO K B K 43 

Baked Ham 

Soak a piece of ham an inch or two thick in boil- 
ing water for an hour, first putting three tablespoons 
molasses over ham. One teaspoon mustard, flour and 
sugar, mixed with water to a paste. Smear ham with 
paste and pour enough milk into baking dish to al- 
most cover ham. Bake two hours — last fifteen min- 
utes without cover. Helen M. Stevens, '05. 

Baked Smoked Ham 

A slice of ham one inch thick. Cut off rind and put 
into baking dish. Sprinkle over it one teaspoon sugar, 
pepper, one teaspoon flour. Cover and bake slowly 
two hours. To vary. After freshening, sugaring and 
dredging with flour, place on top of ham, large to- 
mato sliced. Florence Goodwin Lane, '95. 

Kscalloped Ham 

One slice bread and one pint milk boiled together, 
one cup chopped ham and one egg. Pour on bread 
and milk and bake to light brown. For five or six 
persons. Frances P. Copeland, ex-'05. 

Casserole of Rice and Yeal 

Line a buttered mould one inch deep with boiled rice. 
Fill with two cups fine veal seasoned with salt, pep- 
per, onion juice and lemon. Then add one-fourth cup 
cracker crumbs and one beaten egg. Cover with rice, 
steam forty -five minutes and serve with tomato sauce. 
Florence Wheeler Atwood, '02. 

Give the growing children Knox Gelatine 



44 THE ETA COOK BOOK 

Chop Suey 

One pound hamburg steak, two onions, two table- 
spoons butter, one cup cooked rice, one cup cooked 
macaroni, one cup tomato, salt and pepper. Fr}^ 
onions in butter, add meat and stir until cooked, add 
rice and stir, add macaroni and stir, add tomato and 
stir; season. Vesta Jackson, '14. 

Spare Ribs and Cabbage 

Boil three pounds spare ribs for three and one-half 
hours slowly, putting into tepid water. At end of 
two and one-half hours add one-half cabbage cut into 
sections. Add slowly so as not to stop the boiling. 
Serve on platter with cabbage around the ribs. A favor- 
ite dish in Ohio. Edith Cobb Myers, ex-'08. 

False Rabbit (Falsch Hasen) 

One pound fresh beef chopped fine, one pound lean 
pork, two cups stale bread, one medium-sized onion 
chopped fine, one egg. Soak bread and squeeze as dry 
as possible. Season beef with salt and pepper. Beat 
egg light. Mix all together. Moisten hands and form 
mass into a loaf. Place in a floured pan and sprinkle 
flour over loaf. Bake. Gladys Barber Walley, '05. 

Hungarian Goulasch 

Two pounds beef (top-round) cut into one and one- 
half inch cubes, dip in egg, roll in cracker crumbs, fry 
in hot pork fat just enough to brown, put into cas- 
serole, cover with hot water, salt, pepper, juice of one 
lemon. Bake six hours in slow oven. 

Carrie M. Searle, '00. 

Knox Gelatine is clear and sparkling 



THE ETA COOK BOOK 45 

Hungarian Goulash 

One and one-half pounds lean pork chops, one table- 
spoon flour, one cup water, one scant teaspoon pap- 
rika, one onion, salt, two tablespoons bacon fat, one 
cup milk, two teaspoons lemon juice. Cut meat into 
inch cubes, melt bacon fat and fry the onion (chopped 
fine) to golden color. Add paprika and lemon juice. 
Vrj meat until brown and add water. Cover and 
simmer for forty-five minutes. Add salt and milk. 
Thicken with flour rubbed with water and cook a few 
minutes. May Hobson Tewksbury, ex-'92. 

To Use Up Cold Boiled Lamb 

To use up cold boiled lamb season one pint lamb 
highly with lemon juice, salt, pepper, celery salt and 
onion salt, add enough stock or hot water to mold. 
Line a bread pan with cold boiled rice, pour in the 
meat and cover with rice. Cover the dish with a 
buttered paper and steam for forty-five minutes. Turn 
on a platter and pour over it the following sauce : 
Drain the liquor from a can of peas and heat the peas 
in a cream sauce. A tomato sauce may be used. 

Elsie Ryder Hunt, '99. 

Meat Balls (in Hot Tomato Sauce) 

One pound fresh pork, one pound veal, one pound 
beef, chopped together. Mix three beaten eggs, one 
teaspoon black pepper, one tablespoon salt, parsley 
and onion juice to taste, three tablespoons milk, 
butter size of large walnut, or more. Soak in water 
two slices of bread, and squeeze dry. Add this and 

A Knox Gelatine dessert or salad is attractive and appetizing 



46 T H E E TA COOK BO OK 

the meat alternately to the seasoned egg mixture, un- 
til the whole ean be shaped. Then make into balls. 
Fry these balls until brown in hot lard in a deep 
kettle. Take out and drain and then put into a hot 
tomato sauce, highly seasoned with pepper and onion. 
Thicken slightly and allow the balls to simmer gently 
an hour or longer. 

Alfreda Noyes Reeve, '89. 

Meat Pie 

One pound hamburg steak, one pint milk, two eggs, 
one-half cup flour, butter size of egg. Butter dish, dis- 
solve flour in milk, beat eggs well. Mix all thorough- 
ly. Add salt and pepper to season. 

Nina A. Adams, '07. 

Meat Pie 

Take the remnants of a roast, either lamb or beef, 
cook in water and gravy until the meat falls from 
bone. If the liquor is not rich enough, add beef 
bouillon cube. Carrots or turnips that are left over 
may be included. Cut the meat in small pieces, and 
put in baking dish. Thicken gravy and pour over 
meat. Put in the oven until liquor begins to boil. 
Cover with strips of biscuit dough, and bake until 
dough is rich brown. Lena A. Glover, '97. 

Helen Glover, '13. 

Souffle 

Two tablespoons flour, two tablespoons butter, one 
cup milk, one-half teaspoon salt, two or three eggs, 
one cup cheese, chicken or rice. Blend flour and un- 

Ask your grocer for Knox Gelatine — take no other 



T H E E T A C O O K BO O K 47 

melted butter together, then add cold milk. Cook in 
double boiler. Stir yolks in before removing from fire. 
Add the named ingredients, and fold in stiffly beaten 
whites. Set dish in hot water and bake in a quick 
oven. Helen M. Stevens, '05. 

Beef and Spaghetti with Tomato Sauce 

(Italian Recipe) 

One pound spaghetti, one pound round steak 
ground fine, one small onion, one-half can tomatoes, 
or one small can Italian tomato conserve, one pint 
boiling water, one teaspoon Worcestershire sauce, one 
even tablespoon Kingsford's cornstarch. Fry the 
onion in a little salt pork until brown, add beef well 
salted, and brown slightly. Add tomato, boiling 
water and Worcestershire sauce. Thicken with even 
tablespoon cornstarch, allowing sauce to cook a few 
moments. Season highly with pepper and salt. Boil 
spaghetti (uncut), twenty minutes, allowing plenty of 
water. Drain in colander, place in tureen and pour 
the sauce over it, lifting the spaghetti with a fork to 
distribute the sauce well. When serving, sprinkle with 
grated Parmesan cheese, if desired. 

Elizabeth C. Northrup, '94. 

Spaghetti Italian 

One large can tomatoes, four onions, two green 
peppers, three tablespoons olive oil, some cold roast 
lamb and beef, also chicken, pieces of left over steak, 
some mushrooms if you have them, and a small clove 
of garlic. Cook slowly on side of stove all day and 
stir occasionally to prevent burning. Take one-third 

Knox Gelatine improves soups and gravies 



48 T HE E T A COOK BO OK 

pound of spaghetti and cook in salted boiling water 
about ten to fifteen minutes, drain thoroughly, put on 
hot dish and pour the sauce over. Serve at once with 
grated Parmesan cheese. 

Jean Macauley Gerson, ex-'05. 

Sauce for Meat or Macaroni 

Two tablespoons olive oil, piece onion size of fil- 
bert. Cut in pieces and fry in oil five minutes, then 
add one cup raw or stewed tomatoes. Mix thoroughly 
and boil ten minutes. Add one-fourth cup dried mush- 
rooms which have been soaked ten minutes in one-half 
cup warm water. Add mushrooms and liquid too. 
Season with salt, pepper and one teaspoon butter. 
Thicken with flour paste. Cook twenty minutes, stir- 
ing when necessary. Helen Dorr Yolpe, '04. 

Jell-O with Fowl and other Meats 

As a table jelly with fowl or other meats, lemon 
Jell-0 is better than an} r of the commonly used jellies. 
It has a delicious flavor and a delightful cooking 
qualit} T . Cherry Jell-0 is also very nice as a table 
jelly. Full directions are given in the little recipe 
book in each Jell-0 package. 



Salads and Salad Dressings 



' ' Cheese, it is a peevish elf, 
It digests all things but itself. " 



Tunny Fish Salad 

One can tunny fish. Mix with mayonnaise dressing 
and chopped lettuce. Place on lettuce leaf and slice 
hard boiled eggs over top. 

Ethel Fle welling Chandler, '04. 

Potato Salad 

For three cups cold boiled potato cubes, chop fine 
one-half a small onion or take a few pickled onions, 
four branches parsley, four stuffed or plain olives, 
four small gherkins or one tablespoon piccalilli or 
mustard pickle, one-half a green or red pepper and 
one tablespoon capers. Add to potatoes five table- 
spoons olive oil, one scant teaspoon each salt and pap- 
rika and three tablespoons vinegar. Mix thoroughly. 
Set aside to chill. Add more seasoning if needed. 
Place in a mound on a serving dish, spread with mayon- 
naise, garnish with cooked beet chopped fine, chopped 
whites of eggs and sifted yolks. Rings of stuffed olives 
may be used for decoration and a few peas or beans 
may be added to the salad. Do not make potato 
salad twice alike. Elsie Ryder Hunt, '99. 

Send for free sample of Knox Gelatine 



50 THE ETA COOK BOOK 

Macaroni Salad 

Prepare Freihofer's egg elbow macaroni as for cereal, 
drain and chill thoroughly in ice water, drain and ar- 
range on salad dish, chop one-half cup shrimps, lobster, 
salmon or chicken with one-half cup macaroni, mix 
thoroughly with salad dressing, and celery if chicken 
is used. Drop a spoonful here and there on the whole 
macaroni, cover with more dressing and garnish with 
sliced Qgg, lettuce and serve. 

Salad 

A delicious salad is made of string beans and cu- 
cumbers. String the beans (have very young ones) 
and cut once or twice lengthwise, put in colander and 
place the colander in boiling water and cook until the 
beans are done. Cut cucumbers in corresponding 
shape. Have both very cold ; put together, sprinkle 
a little chopped onion on top, also roquefort cheese 
if desired. Serve with French dressing. 

Alice Hersey Monning, ex-'96. 

Carrot Salad 

Mix equal parts cubed apples, finely cut celery and 
cubed carrots. The carrots must be cooked in salted 
water until tender but firm . Serve on lettuce leaves, with 
mayonnaise dressing. Susan Meredith Smith, '04. 

Raw Carrot Salad 

One cup chopped carrots, one-third cup chopped 
walnuts. Put carrots through meat chopper twice. 
Serve on lettuce leaves with any good dressing. 

Elsie Ryder Hunt, '99. 

Send for the Knox Gelatine recipe book 



THE E T A CO O K BO OK 51 

Perfection Salad 

(The author of this recipe won a $100 prize in one of our recipe 

contests.) 

One envelope Knox sparkling gelatine, one-half cup 
cold water, one-half cup mild vinegar, one pint boil- 
ing water, one teaspoon salt, one cup finely shredded 
cabbage, juice of one lemon, one-half cup sugar, two 
cups celery cut in small pieces, one-fourth can sweet 
red peppers, finely cut. Soak the gelatine in cold 
water five minutes ; add vinegar, lemon juice, boiling 
water, sugar and salt. Strain, and when beginning 
to set add remaining ingredients. Turn into a mold 
and chill. Serve on lettuce leaves with mayonnaise 
dressing, or cut in dice and serve in cases made of red 
or green peppers, or the mixture may be shaped in 
molds lined with pimentos. A delicious accompani- 
ment to cold sliced chicken or veal. 

Salad 

Take medium-sized, good shaped green peppers, cut 
off slice at top, remove seeds and white sections, pour 
boiling water on them and then soak in cold water. 
Take two neufchatel cheeses, mash them and moisten 
with a little mayonnaise or other salad dressing 
(mayonnaise preferred). Add to this a small bottle 
pimolas (olives stuffed with pimentos) chopped. Fill 
the pepper shells with this mixture — the quantity given 
will fill two or three peppers. Place on ice for several 
hours. When ready to serve cut the peppers across 
in slices, serving one or two slices to each person ac- 
cording to the size of the peppers. Serve on lettuce 
* 

Knox Gelatine comes in two packages — Plain and Acidulated 
(lemon flavor) 



52 THE ETA COOK BOOK 

with French dressing. This is attractive and delicious. 
Alice Hersey Monning, ex-'96. 

Salad 

Boil one quart tomatoes with one-half bay leaf, 
salt and pepper to taste, until the seeds slip out easily. 
Strain, return juice to fire and when juice is at boiling 
point remove from fire and add one tablespoon Knox 
gelatine, which has been soaked for several minutes in 
about one-half cup cold water. Put in bottom of in- 
dividual mold, walnuts or pecans, red peppers and sour 
pickles cut in pieces, or a pimento and stuffed olive 
may be used. Pour on these tomato juice and let 
stand in cool place to harden. Serve with mayonnaise 
or lettuce. Maude Winchester Hulxihen, '01. 

Salad 

Slice two oranges, one grape-fruit and place on let- 
tuce leaves. Over top sprinkle with finely cut up green 
peppers and cover with ma3'onnaise dressing. Green 
peppers are a pleasing addition to any fresh vegetable 
salad. Ethel Flewelling Chandler, '04. 

Salad, de lux 

One can pineapple (no juice), two cups pecan nuts, 
one-half pound marshmallows. Cover with candied 
cherries. Lillian H. Bennett, '15. 

Poinsettia Salad 

Place a slice of Hawaiian pineapple on lettuce 
leaves. Cut strips of pimentos and place around the 
pine like a poinsettia. Put a cheese ball in the centre 

Knox Gelatine is guaranteed to please or money back 



THE E T A COOK BOOK 53 

to fill up the hole. Serve with cream salad dressing. 
Dressing: — One teaspoon salt, almost one-half 
tablespoon mustard, one tablespoon sugar, one-half 
pint jar cream, one egg, two and one-half tablespoons 
melted butter, one-fourth cup vinegar. Put in a double 
boiler and cook until it thickens slightly. It will 
thicken up some after it cools. Makes one pint. 

Alice C. Abbott, '98. 

Fruit Salad 

One can white cherries, one grape fruit, two oranges, 
one-half pound malaga grapes or seedless white grapes, 
two pears, one cup pineapple, cut in cubes. Cut up 
fruit and allow juice to drain off. 

Salad Dressing for Same: — Yolks of four eggs, 
four tablespoons tarragon vinegar, pinch salt, four 
tablespoons sugar. Cook in double boiler until thick. 
When cold beat into it one pint cream, whipped. This 
will serve twelve persons. This dressing also nice over 
potato salad or shredded cabbage. 

Viola Brainard Baird, '03. 

Salad 

One slice Hawaiian pineapple. Put cream cheese 
through ricer over this, and maraschino cherry in 
centre. Pour over following dressing: Six tablespoons 
pineapple juice, four tablespoons sugar, yolk one 
egg. Cook to custard over double boiler. Add 
whipped cream to suit taste, about one cup, just be- 
fore serving. 

Ethel Fle welling Chandler '04. 

The Knox Acidulated package contains flavoring and coloring 



54 THE E T A CO OK BO OK 

Apple and Date Salad 

Cut peeled and cored apples in small pieces ; over 
one pint sour apple pour two tablespoons lemon juice. 
Pour boiling water over one pound dates, separate 
with silver fork and skim to an agate plate, make 
hot in the oven, cut each date in four or five pieces, 
discarding seeds. When cold pour over four or five 
tablespoons olive oil mixed with scant one-half tea- 
spoon salt. Mix with apple. Serve on lettuce hearts. 
Oranges or bananas may be substituted for apples. 

Elsie Ryder Hunt, '99. 

Celery and Olive Salad 

Twenty-four olives chopped fine, one teaspoon to- 
mato ketchup, one pinch mustard, one-half cup celer}^ 
chopped fine. Add salad dressing. Serve on lettuce. 

Lillian H. Bennett, '15. 

Cream Cheese Salad 

Two cream cheeses, thinned with a little cream ; 
chopped stuffed olives and walnuts. Roll into little 
balls; serve on cups of lettuce leaves. Mayonnaise 
dressing. V. Bethan Polley, ex-'lO. 

Salad Dressing 

One-half cup cream, one-half cup vinegar, one tea- 
spoon salt, sugar and mustard ; butter size of a wal- 
nut, two eggs well beaten. Mix well. Put the bowl 
in boiling water and cook until it thickens, stirring 
all the time. Alice Heath Nazarian, '86. 

Knox Gelatine makes desserts, salads, candies, puddings, ices, etc. 



THE E TA C O OK BO OK 55 

Cream Salad Dressing 

Four tablespoons butter, one large tablespoon 
flour, one cup milk, one-half cup vinegar. Melt the 
butter in a double boiler, add the flour, and when it 
begins to thicken, add the milk, then the vinegar. 
Then add three eggs, beaten separately, one table- 
spoon sugar, one teaspoon mustard, one-fourth tea- 
spoon salt, paprika, pepper. After taking from the 
stove, beat with egg-beater to make it creamy. 

Katherine G. Hodgdon, '93. 

Russian Salad Dressing 

Three-fourths cup mayonnaise, tw r o tablespoons 
chopped pimentos, three tablespoons chili sauce, one 
tablespoon tarragon vinegar, one teaspoon chopped 
chives, three-fourths teaspoon escoflier sauce. Serve 
on head of lettuce cut in quarters. Delicious. 

Emma Mason Chandler, '00. 

Dressing for Simple Green Salad 

Three-fourths tablespoon tarragon vinegar, one- 
fourth tablespoon cider vinegar, five tablespoons oil, 
one and one-half tablespoons mayonnaise, one-eighth 
teaspoon mustard, one-eighth teaspoon pepper, one- 
half teaspoon salt, one and one-half tablespoons 
pimento, two tablespoons chopped green peppers, one 
tablespoon chopped olives, shake of tabasco sauce. 
Put on ice two hours. Shake and serve. 

Cora Kenty Travis, '01. 

Uncooked Salad Dressing With Oil 

Yolk of one egg, two tablespoons lemon juice, one- 
Use Knox Gelatine if you would be sure of results 



56 the eta cook book 

half teaspoon salt, one-half teaspoon paprika, one cup 
oil, added by teaspoons, stirring the above constantly 
while adding oil. Two or three tablespoons cream 
beaten in. Can be kept if cream is added as used. 
Victoria M. H. Zeller, '08. 

Salad Dressing Without Oil 

One-half teaspoon salt, one teaspoon mustard, one 
and one-half tablespoons sugar, one-fourth teaspoon 
pepper, one tablespoon flour, one egg or two } r olks, 
one and one-half tablespoons melted butter, three- 
fourths cup milk, one-fourth cup vinegar. Mix the 
dry ingredients, add slightly beaten egg, butter, milk 
and vinegar last, slowly. Cook over hot water until 
it thickens. Margaret Morrow Percy, ex-' 10. 

Salad Dressing Without Oil 

One cup milk, one tablespoon butter, one table- 
spoon flour, one egg, one teaspoon mustard, one 
teaspoon salt, one tablespoon sugar, pinch pepper, 
one-half cup hot vinegar. Rub butter and flour to- 
gether ; add all dry ingredients, then beaten egg, milk 
and last of all, hot vinegar. Cook in double boiler 
until creamy. Grace Hayden Franklin, '07. 

Boiled Salad Dressing 

Yolks of three eggs, two teaspoons salt, one tea- 
spoon mustard, one saltspoon pepper, five cooking 
spoons sugar, one cup milk. Let one-half cup vinegar 
come to boil. Melt butter size two walnuts. Pour 
butter on beaten material. Add vinegar and whites 
of three eggs beaten stiff last. 

Celia Tilton Donaldson, ex-'07. 



Simply add water and sugar to the Knox Acidulated package 



THE ET A CO OK BOOK 57 

Boiled Salad Dressing 

Beat two eggs until light, add one teaspoon sugar, 
one teaspoon salt, one teaspoon mustard dissolved in 
a little hot water, two tablespoons vinegar, butter 
size of an egg. Place dish in hot water and cook until 
thick. When cool add one-half cup cream. 

Harriet Webster, '03. 

Boiled Salad Dressing 

One cup water, one-fourth cup vinegar and lemon 
juice, two tablespoons flour, one teaspoon mustard, 
one tablespoon sugar, one teaspoon salt, cayenne, two 
egg 3 r olks, one cup oil. Bring water to boil and add 
vinegar and lemon juice. Mix dry ingredients with a 
little of the oil, and thicken boiling liquid. Cook until 
thick. When slightly cool, add well-beaten yolks. Add 
oil. Lula Scott Underhill, '05. 

Salad Dressing 

Two eggs, one teaspoon salt, three tablespoons 
sugar, one tablespoon mustard, two tablespoons 
melted butter, one tablespoon Kingsford's cornstarch, 
one cup milk. Cook in double boiler. When almost 
done, add scant one-half cup of hot vinegar. Add an 
equal quantity of whipped cream for use with fruit 
salads. Mabel Bancroft Phillips, '04. 

Salad Dressing 

Two tablespoons mustard, one teaspoon sugar, 
one teaspoon salt, enough hot water to mix. Add 
sufficient oil or melted butter. Three unbeaten eggs. 

For dainty delicious desserts use Knox Gelatine 



58 THE E TA C K BO O K 

Mix well, then add one-half cup vinegar and two- 
thirds cup milk. Put in double boiler and stir con- 
stantly with silver spoon until it begins to thicken. 
Take from fire and strain if need be. 

Helen L. Lacount, '08. 

Salad Dressing 

Yolks of four eggs, one teaspoon salt, pinch of cay- 
enne, one scant tablespoon mustard, two tablespoons 
melted butter, seven tablespoons vinegar, one table- 
spoon sugar. Mix mustard, salt and sugar together 
dry, then add to the unbeaten yolks. Stir in thorough- 
ly, add the melted butter and last of all the vinegar. 
Put in double boiler and cook until it thickens, stirring 
constantly. Thin with milk or cream when used. Put 
away in air tight jars. This will keep some time. 

Ida B. Johnson, '92. 




Entr 



ees 



' ,c &he rich morsels on the palate melt — 
Jlnd all the force of cookery is felt. 



Egg Omelet 

One-fourth tablespoon butter, one-half tablespoon 
flour, one-eighth teaspoon salt and sprinkle of pepper, 
one-fourth cup milk, one egg, one-half teaspoon butter 
for pan. Make a white sauce of all ingredients except 
the egg and boil three minutes. To this acid the 
beaten } r olk, and when slightly cooled, fold in the stiff 
white. When the omelet has been browned on the 
bottom in a frying pan, set into the oven to dr3' the 
top. Fold and serve. Eunice T. Thomas, '05. 

Fleda's Omelet 

One-half cup milk, two tablespoons very fine bread 
crumbs, a scant half teaspoon Royal baking powder, 
a little salt, and yolks of six eggs. Mix well and add 
quickly to the stiffly beaten whites. Pour at once into 
a hot buttered spider and cook until brown beneath, 
then put the spider into the oven to stiffen the top a 
bit. Cut in two and fold. Serve hot. 

Gertrude Gilman, '92. 

Pink coloring for fancy desserts in each package of Knox Gelatine 



60 THE B T A CO OK BO OK 

German Cabbage 
Slice red cabbage and soak in cold water. Put two 
tablespoons of butter in saucepan in which cabbage is 
to be cooked, add one teaspoon salt, one tablespoon 
chopped onion, few gratings nutmeg and few grains 
cayenne. When this is well blended, add cabbage, 
cover and simmer slowly until cabbage is tender. Add 
two tablespoons vinegar and one-half tablespoon sugar 
and cook five minutes. Send to table hot. 

Emma Mason Chandler, '00. 

Royal Escallope 

One cup minced ham, two cups cream sauce, six 
hard boiled eggs, eight rolled soda crackers. Butter 
baking dish, la} T er of cracker crumbs, white of eggs, 
then ham, next yolk, cream sauce; repeat until all is 
in. Then dot with butter on top and pour cup of 
cream or milk over and bake twenty minutes. 

Gertrude B. O'Neil, '06. 

Escalloped Celery and Onions 

Four stalks of celery, one onion of medium size, 
one-half Spanish pepper chopped fine. Line dish with 
bread crumbs wet with hot water and a little milk, 
then layer of celery, etc., mixed with small teaspoon 
salt, then more bread, and so on. A little butter over 
the top and bake. Lillian C. Rogers, '87. 

Escalloped Corn 

One cup stewed corn. Butter dish and put in al- 
ternate layers of bread crumbs and corn, with crumbs 
on top and bottom. Put a little butter and salt over 

Try Knox Acidulated Gelatine with the lemon flavor enclosed 



THE ETA COOK BOOK 61 

each layer of corn. Put bits of butter on top layer of 
crumbs. Cover with milk and bake twenty minutes. 
If there is hardly enough corn, use more crumbs and 
add beaten egg to milk. 

Elizabeth Goodwin Adams, 07. 

Baked Stuffed Peppers 

Six green peppers. Cut slice from top of each and 
scoop out interior. 

Stuffing. One-fourth pound grated mild American 
cheese, two cups boiled chopped spinach, one cup to- 
mato pulp and juice, salt, cayenne to taste. Thicken 
to right consistency with cracker crumbs. Fill pep- 
pers with stuffing and bake until peppers are tender. 

Helen Dorr Volpe, '04. 

Mock Crab 

Four tablespoons butter, one-half cup flour, scant 
one-half teaspoon salt, generous three-fourths teaspoon 
mustard, one and one-half cups scalded milk, one cup 
corn, one egg y one cup buttered bread crumbs. Melt 
butter and add flour and dry seasonings, add milk 
gradually. Bring to boiling point, add corn and egg 
slightly beaten. Pour into buttered baking dish, cover 
with crumbs and bake until crumbs are brown. 

Vesta Jackson, '14. 

Cheese Fondue 

Melt one-half cup crumbled young American cheese 
and one-half tablespoon butter in one cup hot milk. 
Add one well beaten egg y one saltspoon salt, one-half 

Knox Gelatine makes dainty desserts for dainty people 



62 THE ETA COOK BOOK 

saltspoon cayenne, one cup bread crumbs. Bake in 
buttered scallop-shells until brown. 

Lillian C. Rogers, '87. 

Cheese Souffle 

One cup stale bread crumbs, one tablespoon butter, 
one-fourth pound cheese cut in small pieces, one- half 
teaspoon salt. Pour one cup scalding milk upon this 
and add the yolks and whites of three eggs beaten 
separately. Bake in hot oven twenty or thirty min- 
utes. Cora Stanwood Cobb, '91. 

Cheese Souffle 

Two tablespoons butter, three tablespoons flour, 
one-half cup scalded milk, one-half teaspoon salt, few 
grains cayenne, one-fourth cup grated cheese, yolks 
three eggs, whites three eggs. Melt butter, add flour, 
and when well mixed add milk. Then add salt, cay- 
enne and cheese. Remove from fire and add yolks well 
beaten. Cool mixture. Fold in whites beaten stiff. 
Bake twenty minutes in slow oven. Serve at once. 

Annie Caffin Swett, '08. 

Mexican Macaroni 

Break one-half pound macaroni into rapidly boiling 
salted water with one finery chopped onion. Take 
solid part of one can tomatoes and one or two sweet 
red peppers. Arrange macaroni, sliced tomatoes and 
peppers in layers. Cover the whole with cracker crumbs 
and grated cheese. Pour overall the liquid from the can 
of tomatoes. Brown in quick oven. Quantity for six 
persons. Ilga Herrick, '12. 

See that the name K-N-O-X is on each package of gelatine you buy 



THE ET A C O OK BOOK 63 

Creamed Macaroni with Cheese 

Boil one-fourth pound macaroni in plenty of hot, 
salted water until tender. Put one-half pint of milk 
in double boiler and when it boils, stir into it a mix- 
ture of two tablespoons butter and one tablespoon 
flour. Add a little cayenne pepper and salt to taste 
and one-half pound grated cheese. Drain macaroni and 
pour cream sauce over it. 

Marion Tay Evans, '03. 

Macaroni and Clams 

Put in a pudding dish layers of boiled Freihofer's 
egg macaroni (macaroni should be boiled twenty or 
twenty-five minutes placed in a colander, rinse off with 
water) and chopped clams. Put pieces of butter and 
a sprinkling of salt and pepper on each layer of elams. 
Pour over all a cupful of cream or milk; then cover 
with grated bread crumbs. Bake in a hot oven for 
fifteen minutes. 

Macaroni with Ham 

Put in a buttered pudding dish boiled Freihofer's 
egg macaroni in layers, with minced ham. Season the 
ham with a little mustard or finely chopped onion. 
Beat one egg and mix with one cup milk; pour over 
all and bake in a very quick oven for ten minutes. 

Macaroni and Oysters 

Put in a pudding dish layers of boiled Freihofer's 
egg macaroni and raw oysters. Put pieces of butter 
and a sprinkling of salt and pepper on each layer of 

Knox Acidulated Gelatine saves the cost, time and bother of squeez- 
ing lemons 



64 THE ETA COOK BOOK 

oysters. Pour over all one ctip cream or milk, then 
cover with grated bread crumbs. Bake in a hot oven 
for fifteen minutes. 

Potato and Nut Croquettes 

Mashed potato seasoned with milk, butter, salt 
and pepper. Add one cup chopped peanuts or wal- 
nuts, a little chopped onion, and one egg. Mix well. 
Form into balls or rolls. Bake in a hot oven until 
browned slightly; or roll in egg and crumbs and fry 
in deep fat. Serve with tomato, curry or white sauce. 

Dorothy E. Hodgkins, '11. 

Potatoes, au Gratin 

One cup white sauce, one pint cold boiled, diced 
potatoes, one-half cup moistened bread crumbs with 
one tablespoon melted butter, one-half cup cheese cut 
in small pieces. Put potatoes, cheese and sauce, two 
layers each in buttered baking dish. Cover with the 
crumbs. Bake fifteen minutes. 

Alice Hersey Monning, ex-'96. 

Potatoes Baked in Half-Shell 

Bake six potatoes the usual way. When baked re- 
move from oven, cut slice from top of each and scoop 
out inside. Mash, add two tablespoons butter, salt, 
pepper, and three tablespoons hot milk; then add 
whites two eggs well beaten. Refill skins, and bake 
five to eight minutes in very hot oven. Potatoes may 
be sprinkled with grated cheese before putting in oven. 

Helen Dorr Volpe, '04. 

Knox Acidulated Gelatine-no bother-no trouble-no squeezing lemons 



THE ETA COOK BOOK 55 



Candied Sweet Potatoes 

Pare and cut the potatoes lengthwise in slices about 
one-half inch thick, put in iron frying pan, with lots 
of butter and sugar, cover with water and cook until 
the water and sugar have formed a syrup, then bring 
to side of stove and turn as the potatoes brown. 
They need careful watching at this stage as they very 
quickly burn. Pieces of pineapple cooked with the po- 
tatoes are very good. 

Jean Macauley Gerson, ex-'05. 

Candied Sweet Potatoes 

Cut cold boiled potatoes into slices lengthwise. 
Spread with butter and sprinkle with sugar and cin- 
namon. Cook in a slow oven about an hour. 

Maude Winchester Hullihen, '01. 

Baked Bananas 

Bake for about an hour in a slow oven, six whole 
bananas with two teaspoons caramel and a little but- 
ter and sugar. Maude Winchester Hullihen, '01. 

Delicious Sweet Potatoes 

Take cold boiled sweet potatoes, cut lengthwise 
into four or eight pieces, according to size; cut each 
piece in halves. Roll in a beaten egg and in salted 
cracker crumbs. Fry in fat in a spider. 

Helen Glover, '13. 

Rice Croquettes 

One cup washed rice, one teaspoon salt, one cup 
milk, three cups hot water. Steam in double boiler 
until moisture is absorbed (about one hour). Beat 

Where recipes call for gelatine use Knox Gelatine 



66 THE ETA COOK BOOK 

one egg, add warmed rice. Shape into croquettes. Let 
stand. Roll in cracker crumbs (not too fine) then the 
beaten egg and crumbs. Fry in deep fat. 

Helen L. Follansbee, '00. 

Rice and Pimentos 

One small can pimentos, one cup rice, two cups 
grated cheese, two eggs, one and one-half cups milk, 
salt and pepper to taste. Mash the rice and boil it 
in plenty of boiling salted water, then drain. Add 
cheese, pimentos (chopped rather fine), well-beaten 
eggs, milk and seasoning. Turn into a buttered fire- 
proof dish and bake in a moderate oven for twenty 
minutes. Helena M. Bullock, ex-'94. 

Creamed Tomatoes 

(A German Dish) 

One-half quart can tomatoes, one tablespoon sugar, 
one teaspoon salt, one-half cup stale bread crumbs. 
Let simmer twenty minutes. Then add one cup sweet 
milk with one tablespoon flour, mixed to a smooth 
paste with some of the milk. Stir until it thickens and 
serve with a lump of butter. 

Edith Cobb Myers, ex-'08. 

Tomato Cream Toast 

Make a white sauce with three tablespoons butter, 
three tablespoons flour, one-half teaspoon salt, one-half 
cup scalded cream or milk. Add one and one-half cups 
stewed and strained tomatoes to which one-fourth 
teaspoon soda has been added. Pour over toast. 

Ethel Britton Perry, '97. 

Four pints of jelly in each package of Knox Gelatine 



THE ETA COOK BOOK 67 

Escalloped Tomatoes 

Line baking dish with slices of buttered stale bread 
and cover with thin layer of stewed, salted and flavored 
tomatoes. Use three alternate layers of each. Put 
pieces of butter on the top. Bake one-half hour in mod- 
erate oven. Delicious. Cora Stanwood Cobb, '91. 

Turkish Pilaf 

One-half cup rice, three-fourths cup water, two table- 
spoons butter, one small grated onion, one and one-half 
cups strained tomato, one-half teaspoon salt, one- 
eighth teaspoon pepper. Wash the rice, add the other 
ingredients to it, cook one hour in a double boiler, 
adding more water if it becomes too stiff. Serve as a 
vegetable. Abby Barstow Bates, '87. 

Tamale Loaf 

One can corn, one-half can tomatoes, one scant cup 
cornmeal, one and one-half cups milk; chop one-half 
onion, one bell pepper, one and one-half dozen ripe 
olives or pimolas; one level tablespoon Grandma's 
Spanish pepper, one teaspoon salt, two well-beaten 
eggs. Mix in order given, put in pudding dish and 
bake one hour. Serves seven to eight fully. 

Viola Brainard Baird, '03. 



^Puddings 



" 'Puddings, my friends, do a mission fill, 

'CAey add to the dinner, also the bill, 

'Uhey cause men to wish, with what ardor they may 

'Chat the meal that foretells them came three times a day. 



Kiss Pudding 

One quart milk, three even tablespoons Kingsford's 
cornstarch, yolks of three eggs, salt. Cook in double 
boiler about ten minutes. When done turn in the dish 
you serve in and pour over it one cup of sugar while 
hot. Whip whites of eggs for frosting and brown in 
oven. Alice W. Hammond. '13. 

Puff Pudding 

Ten tablespoons flour, one pint milk, three eggs, 
salt. Mix flour into a creamy paste with some of the 
milk. Beat eggs well and add remainder of milk. 
Combine mixtures, add pinch salt. Bake in buttered 
pan in quick oven. Serve with hard sauce. 

Susan Jackson Dean, '04. 

Mountain Dew Pudding 

One pint milk, yolks two eggs, two tablespoons 
cocoanut, one-half cup rolled cracker crumbs, flavor. 

Knox Gelatine is measured ready for use — each package is divided 
into two envelopes 



THE E T A CO OK B O OK 69 

Bake one-half hour. Make a frosting of the whites of 
two eggs and one-half cup of sugar. Brown it. 

Celia I. McLennan, '17. 

Pompadour Pudding- 
One quart milk, yolks of three eggs, one cup sugar, 
two tablespoons Kingsford's cornstarch, little salt. 
Stir into boiling milk. Cool in sherbet glasses and 
put on top whites of eggs beaten with one-half cup 
sugar and two large spoons of melted Baker's choco- 
late. Serve very cold. Marion Tay Evans, '03. 

Macaroon Pudding 

Put one quart milk with one tablespoon sugar in 
double boiler, and let come to a boil. Beat yolks of 
three eggs thoroughly and mix one tablespoon flour 
and one tablespoon Kingsford's cornstarch with it. 
It is well to mix a little of the milk with it too. Add 
to hot milk and cook until it thickens. Remove from 
fire and flavor with vanilla. Take one package maca- 
roon drops and break them up (rolling pin). Put 
layer of macaroons then a layer of custard, and so 
on, having macaroons come on top for the last layer. 
Beat whites of eggs to stiff froth, add three table- 
spoons confectioner's sugar. Put on top and brown 
in oven. Jane Johonnet, '11. 

Macaroon Cream 

One-fourth box Knox gelatine or one tablespoon 
Knox gelatine, one-fourth cup cold water, one-fourth 
cup scalded milk, one-half cup sugar, whites two eggs, 
one-half pint cream whipped and diluted with one-third 

Knox Gelatine solves the problem of "What to have for dessert?" 



70 THE ETA COOK BOOK 

cup cold milk, one-half pound stale, crumbed-up mac- 
aroons. Soak gelatine in cold water. Dissolve in 
scalded milk and add sugar. Stir until thick. Add 
whites of eggs beaten stiff, then the diluted cream. 
Lastly, the macaroon crumbs, leaving enough to 
sprinkle over top. Very good and not half as com- 
plicated as it sounds. 

Constance Freethy Coan, '02. 

Coffee Cream 

Three eggs, one pint milk, one tablespoon Knox 
granulated gelatine, two-thirds cup strong coffee, one- 
half cup sugar, one cup whipped cream. Make custard 
by cooking eggs and milk in double boiler. Soak the 
gelatine in the coffee for ten minutes, and add to the 
custard which should be hot enough to dissolve the 
gelatine. Put in the sugar and stand mixture aside 
to cool while cream is being whipped. Add cream 
when first mixture is nearly cold, stir in thoroughly and 
turn into a wet mold. Chill before serving. 

Emily P. Burdon, '14. 

Coffee Souffle 

Two cups coffee, two cups milk, one scant cup 
sugar, three eggs, one-fourth teaspoon salt, two level 
tablespoons Knox Gelatine, one teaspoon vanilla. 
Mix coffee, milk, gelatine and heat in a double boiler. 
Add yolks of eggs, sugar and salt, slightly beaten. 
Cook like soft custard. Remove from fire and add 
beaten whites, chill and serve with cream. 

Blanche Richardson, '11. 

Knox Gelatine is economical — Four Pints in each package 



THE ETA COOK BOOK 71 

Chantilly Baskets 

Dip the edges of soft, flexible macaroons in syrup, 
prepared as for crystallized fruit and form them into 
a basket on a fancy plate, something as children shape 
a burr basket. A rim and handle of pasteboard add 
in keeping the shape. When dry fill with any fancy 
Bavarian cream. Lillian H. Bennett, '15. 

Caramel Junket 

Two cups milk, one-third cup sugar, one-third cup 
boiling water, one junket tablet, few grains salt, one 
teaspoon vanilla. Heat milk until lukewarn. Cara- 
melize sugar. Add boiling water and cook until syrup 
is reduced to one-third cup. Cool and add milk slowly. 
Reduce junket to powder and add to mixture with salt 
and vanilla. Serve with whipped cream and chopped 
nuts. Mabel Bancroft Phillips, '04. 

Bavarian Cream 

One-fourth box Knox gelatine, one-fourth cup cold 
water, one pint cream, one-third cup sugar, teaspoon 
vanilla. Soak the gelatine in cold water until soft. 
Chill and whip cream until you have three pints. Boil 
the remainder of cream with the sugar ; when boiling 
add the gelatine. Strain into granite pan, add vanilla 
or lemon, or flavor with two tablespoons melted 
Baker's chocolate. This cream is sometimes molded 
in small cups. Put apricot, peach, small cherries or 
candied plum in bottom of cup before filling with the 
cream. Lillian H. Bennett, '15. 

Try the Knox Gelatine recipes found in this book 



72 THE ETA COOK BOOK 



Lemon, Sponge or Snow Pudding 

One envelope Knox sparkling gelatine, one cup 
sugar, whites of two eggs, three-fourths pint cold 
water, three-fourths pint boiling water, rind and juice 
of two lemons. Soak the gelatine in the cold water 
five minutes. Dissolve in boiling water and add grated 
rind and juice of the lemons and sugar. Stir until 
dissolved. Strain and let stand in a cool place until 
nearly set. Then add the whites of the eggs, well 
beaten, and beat the mixture until it is light and 
spongy. Put lightly into glass dish or shape in mold. 
Serve with a thin custard made of the yolks of the 
eggs, or cream and sugar. Other fruit juices may be 
used, keeping the same proportion; when juice of less 
strength than that of lemon is used it may take the 
place of a part of the water. In this case the juice of 
one lemon to each quart of jelly will bring out the 
flavor of the fruit. 

Coffee Spanish Cream 

One and three-fourths cups strong coffee, three- 
fourths cup milk, two-thirds cup sugar, little salt, 
three eggs, one-fourth box Knox gelatine, vanilla. 
Mix coffee, milk, one-half the sugar, and gelatine dis- 
solved in little cold water. Heat in double boiler. 
Add remaining sugar, salt and beaten yolks of eggs. 
Let thicken, remove from fire and add whites of eggs 
beaten stiff. Flavor. Serve with cream. 

Alice Hersey Monning, ex-'96. 

French Charlotte 

One pint milk, one cup sugar, one egg, one package 

Desserts can be made in a short time with Knox Gelatine 



THE E TA CO O K B O OK 73 

Knox minute gelatine, a little salt, one-half pint heavy 
cream. Boil milk in double boiler. Add sugar, egg, 
gelatine and salt. When cold, add whipped cream 
and flavor. Sprinkle chopped nuts on top. 

Mabel Whitaker, '14. 

Lemon Pudding 
Spread two slices of dry bread and put into a shal- 
low, buttered pudding dish. Cover with one cup milk, 
and let stand for twenty minutes. Add the beaten 
yolks of two eggs, a pinch salt, a small cup sugar, 
and the grated rind and juice of one lemon, pouring it 
over the bread. Bake in a good oven for twenty min- 
utes and when slightly cool, add beaten whites with a 
little powdered sugar and brown. 

Edith Cobb Myers, ex-'08. 

Rice Meringue Pudding 

One-half cup rice, one-half teaspoon salt, one pint 
milk, four eggs, one-half cup sugar, one large lemon. 
Soak rice several hours in water to cover. Pour into 
warm milk, acid salt and boil until done. Add yolks of 
eggs and cook a few minutes. Remove from fire and 
add grated rind one lemon. Put in pudding dish and 
make stiff meringue of whites of eggs and confectioner's 
sugar with juice of lemon. Brown lightly. 

Edith Fowler Chase, ex-'93. 

Rice Cream 
Wash one-fourth cup rice. Boil fifteen minutes in 
actively boiling salt water. Drain thoroughly. Put it 
into double boiler with a little salt and two cups milk. 

Use Knox Gelatine — the two-quart package 



74 THE E T A COOK BOOK 

Cook until grains are tender. Add three-fourths cup 
sugar. Let cool a little. Soak one-half box powdered 
Knox gelatine in two tablespoons cold water. Add 
three tablespoons boiling water and let stand in a 
warm place until thoroughly dissolved. Strain into 
the rice. Place in a pan of cold water, and when be- 
ginning to set, add one tablespoon vanilla and one cup 
cream beaten solid. Pour into mold and harden. 

Clara D. Pinkham, '01. 

Fig Tapioca Pudding" 

One-half cup minute tapioca, one and one-half cups 
light brown sugar, one-fourth teaspoon cinnamon, three 
cups water, one-half pound diced figs. Steam one hour, 
remove from fire, add one cup walnut meats and one 
teaspoon vanilla. Serve cold with whipped cream. 
Bertha Mansfield Freeman, '89. 

Pineapple Tapioca 

One cup tapioca soaked over night, boiled soft with 
one cup water, one cup sugar, juice two lemons, one 
can grated pineapple, whites two eggs, beaten very 
light. Pour into mold and cool on ice. Serve with 
whipped cream. Esther Lydon, '16. 

Lemon Rice Pudding 

One cup rice boiled soft in water, pour in one pint 
cold milk, piece butter size of egg, yolks four eggs, 
grated rind one lemon. Pour all together and bake 
one-half hour. After cold, put on top one pint sugar, 
beaten whites of four eggs, juice of lemon and slightly 
brown. Sara M. Cole, ex-' 14 

Knox Gelatine makes a transparent, tender, quivering jelly 



THE E T A C O O K B O OK 75 

Newton Tapioca or Tapioca Indian Pudding 

Soak two and one-half tablespoons pearl tapioca 
in cold water for two hours. Scald two cups milk in 
double boiler and pour in gradually two tablespoons 
granulated Indian meal mixed with one-half teaspoon 
salt and one -fourth teaspoon ginger. Add one-half cup 
molasses and one and one-half tablespoons butter. 
Cook in double boiler until mixture thickens some- 
what, then add tapioca and cook until transparent. 
Turn into buttered pudding dish and add one-half cup 
cold milk without stirring. Bake slowly three or four 
hours in a pan of hot water, if necessary. 

Carolyn Strong Newell, '90. 



Indian Pudding 

One quart scalded milk, three teaspoons minute 
tapioca, two tablespoons Indian meal, one-half cup 
sugar, one-half cup molasses, salt. Bake slowly one 
hour. Gladys Damon, '14. 

Orange Pudding 

Cut three oranges fine, add one-half cup sugar. To 
one-half cup flour mixed with cold milk, add yolks of 
three eggs, salt and one-half cup sugar. Stir into one 
quart scalded milk, cook twent3 r minutes. Add one 
tablespoon butter, one teaspoon vanilla, and turn 
over oranges. Beat the whites, add three tablespoons 
powdered sugar, little vanilla. Put on top of the pud- 
ding, and brown in oven. 

V. Bethan Polley, ex-'lO. 

Knox Gelatine is the one dessert for all appetites 



76 THE E T A CO OK BOOK 

Cup Puddings 

One egg, stir in one cup flour, one heaping teaspoon 
Royal baking powder, salt. Stir in very little milk — 
stiff batter to drop from spoon. Fill cups two-thirds 
with strawberries, butter rest of cup and put a little 
batter on top. Put on a rack in wide kettle, pour in 
boiling water to come half way up the cups, cover 
kettle tight and steam fifteen minutes. Take cover off 
and let stand in the hot water until ready to serve. 
Turn from the cups and serve with hard sauce with 
strawberries. crushed into it. Other fresh or canned 
fruits may be substituted for strawberries. The quan- 
tity given is sufficient for six cups. 

Alice Hersey Monning, ex-' 96. 

Mocha Pudding 

One and one-half cups cold coffee, two-thirds cup 
sugar, one and one-half cups milk, two even table- 
spoons Knox gelatine, two eggs, one teaspoon vanilla. 
Mix coffee, milk, one-half cup sugar and gelatine to- 
gether. Cook in double boiler ten minutes, add remain- 
ing sugar to 3'olks of two beaten eggs. Beat in whites 
of eggs, and add last. Flavor with vanilla and beat 
all together, then pour into mold in which cold water 
has been standing so gelatine will not stick to sides. 
Serve with cream, plain or whipped. 

Cora Stanwood Cobb, '91. 

Mocha Souffle 

One and one-half cups strong coffee, one and one- 
half cups milk, two-thirds cup sugar, one tablespoon 
granulated Knox Gelatine, one-half teaspoon salt, three 

Give the growing children Knox Gelatine 



THE ETA COOK BOOK 77 

eggs, one-half teaspoon vanilla. Mix coffee, milk, one- 
half the sugar and gelatine, and heat in a double boiler. 
Add remainder of sugar and yolks of eggs slightly 
beaten. Cook until thickened, remove from fire, and 
add beaten egg whites and vanilla. Serve very cold 
with whipped cream. Ruth Hazeltine, '14. 

Chocolate Meringue 

One quart milk, three eggs, two squares Baker's 
chocolate, six tablespoons sugar, one teaspoon vanilla, 
three tablespoons Kingsford's cornstarch. Dissolve 
cornstarch in cup of milk. Grate chocolate. Heat re- 
mainder of milk in double boiler with chocolate and 
sugar. Beat yolks of eggs and mix with cornstarch. 
Pour into milk slowly to prevent curdling. Boil until 
thick. Frost with whites of eggs beaten stiff with six 
tablespoons sugar. Put in oven and brown. 

Nina A. Adams, '07. 

Chocolate Nesnah 

Pour one quart of cold milk into a dish and stir in 
one package chocolate Nesnah. Dissolve thoroughly 
and quickly. (A pitcher is easy to stir in and pour 
from). Then pour into individual glasses and set these 
into a pan. (Glasses must not touch each other or the 
hot water may crack them). Pour into the pan enough 
hot water to come nearly up to the top of the cups. 
Let them set in this ten minutes, undisturbed. (Use 
water as hot as you can bear the finger in, but not 
hot enough to crack glasses). When the ten minutes 
are up, lift glasses carefully out of water and place in 
ice box until serving time. 

Knox Gelatine is clear and sparkling 



78 THE ETA COOK BOOK 

Chocolate Pudding 

Soak one pint bread crumbs in one pint milk. Stir 
into it three tablespoons Baker's cocoa. Pour over 
this the following mixture : Three beaten eggs, one-half 
cup sugar, one pint milk. Do not stir. Bake one hour, 
setting pudding dish in pan of hot water if oven is 
very hot. Serve with sauce : One cup sugar, one table- 
spoon Kingsford's cornstarch, one cup water, boiled 
together ten minutes. Add one tablespoon butter and 
one-half teaspoon vanilla. 

Helen L. Follansbee, '00. 

Chocolate Bread Pudding 

One cup bread crumbs, two cups scalded milk, one- 
third cup sugar, one-fourth teaspoon salt, one square 
Baker's chocolate, one egg. Soak crumbs in milk one- 
half hour, melt chocolate and add to it enough sugar 
and milk from crumbs to make it the right consistency 
to pour. Add it to the crumbs, also rest of sugar, 
salt and slightly beaten egg. Pour into buttered bak- 
ing dish and bake in moderate oven about one-half 
hour. Lena Chandler Mason, ex-'13. 

Chocolate Plum Pudding 

One envelope Knox sparkling gelatine, three-fourths 
cup cold water, one cup sugar, one-half teaspoon va- 
nilla, one cup seeded raisins, one-fourth cup sliced citron 
or nuts, as preferred, one-half cup currants, one and 
one-half squares Baker's chocolate, one pint milk, pinch 
salt. Soak the gelatine in the cold water. Put milk 
in double boiler. Melt chocolate, add to milk and add 
sugar and salt. Scald and remove from fire. Add gela- 

A Knox Gelatine dessert or salad is attractive and appetizing 



THE ETA COOK BOOK 79 

tine and when it begins to set add fruit and vanilla. 
Serve with the following sauce or whipped cream : 
Beat stiff white of one egg. Add one tablespoon con- 
fectioner's sugar and one-half cup milk slowly. Flavor 
with vanilla. 

Chocolate Steamed Pudding 

Two eggs, one cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one- 
half cup sweet milk, two cups flour, one teaspoon 
cream of tartar, one-half teaspoon baking soda, two 
squares melted Baker's chocolate. Steam in buttered 
mold three hours. Serve with whipped cream. All 
measures are taken level. Flour sifted, then measured. 

Sarah A. Cole, '95. 

Chocolate Walnut Custard 

Heat one pint milk, one-half cup sugar and three 
tablespoons grated Baker's chocolate in a double 
boiler. When it boils add one tablespoon Kingsford's 
cornstarch dissolved in a little cold milk and the yolks 
of two eggs beaten light. Cook until thick, remove 
from fire and add one-half cup walnut meats broken 
up fine, not chopped. Mix thoroughly, chill and place 
in glasses with a spoon of whipped cream on each. 

Elizabeth J. Sweet, '11. 

Pineapple Whip 

One cup shredded pineapple, one and one-half cups 
pineapple juice, one-half pound marshmallows, one- 
half teaspoon Knox gelatine, one-half pint cream. 
Heat the marshmallows in the oven and then pour 
over them the pineapple juice in which the gelatine has 



Ask your grocer for Knox Gelatine — take no other 



80 THE ETA COOK BOOK 

been dissolved. When eold add one-half pint cream, 
whipped stiff. When the mixture begins to harden add 
shredded pineapple and place in a mold. Serve cold. 

Amy C. Farlin, '09. 

Marshmallow Pudding 

Pour juice and contents of a large can of Hawaiian 
pineapple over one pound marshmallows. Let stand 
over night, or some considerable time. When ready 
to serve w r hip one-half pint sweetened cream and cover 
in one large dish, or place in separate dishes and 
garnish with the cream and a few English walnut 
meats. Clara D. Pinkham, '01. 

Marshmallow Pudding- 
One pint thick cream whipped stiff, one-half pound 
marshmallows cut up into small pieces, one cup 
chopped nuts. Mix and cool for two or three hours. 
Maraschino cherries or some other fruit may be used 
in place of the nuts. Alice W. Hammond, '13. 

Pineapple Dessert 

One can Hawaiian pineapple, cut in small pieces. 
Into this put one-fourth pound marshmallows cut in 
two or three pieces. Let it stand for several hours, 
then serve with whipped cream. 

Jessie Loud Potter, '06. 

Marshmallow Pudding 

One cup sugar, whites four eggs, one tablespoon 
Knox gelatine, vanilla, coloring, chopped nuts, cherries, 
figs or any kind of candied fruits. Dissolve gelatine in 

Knox Gelatine improves soups and gravies 



THE ETA COOK BOOK 81 

one-half cup cold water, fill cup with boiling water. 
Beat sugar and gelatine slowly into whites of the 
four eggs, which have been previously stiffly beaten. 
Add vanilla. Put half of this into another dish, color 
slightly, add chopped nuts and fruits. When it begins 
to stiffen pour into mold with white part on top. 
Serve with whipped cream. 

Sophy D. Parker, '01. 

Marshmallow Loaf 

Soak one package Knox gelatine in a little cold 
water, add one cup boiling water and stir until dis- 
solved. Let cool. Beat the whites of four eggs, then 
add one cup pineapple juice from one can pineapple 
and beat well. When the gelatine is cool, add it and 
continue beating. Dissolve in a little water about three- 
fourths of the color tablet in the package of gelatine. 
Take one-third of the marshmallow and add to it the 
color; to the other two-thirds add the grated pineapple 
or cut the fruit fine. Line a loaf cake tin with par- 
affin paper. Place in it one-half of the white mixture, 
then the pink, then the rest of the white. Let it stand 
on ice a day or two. Remove from pan, serve in slices 
with whipped cream and a cherry. This serves about 
ten people. Other fruit can be substituted for the pine- 
apple. Alice Hersey Monning, ex-' 96. 

Fairy-Banquet Pudding 

Heat hot but not boiling one pint milk, one egg, one 
cup sugar. Add two tablespoons unflavored Knox 
gelatine. W T hen cool add twelve quartered marsh- 
mallows, one-half cup chopped walnuts, one table- 
Send for free sample of Knox Gelatine 



82 T HE E T A COOK BOOK 

spoon vanilla and one-half pint whipped thick cream. 
Stir occasionally while hardening to prevent cream 
from rising to top. Jane Johonnet, '11. 

The Popular Jell-O Recipe 

Dissolve one package Jell-O, any flavor, in one pint 
boiling water. Pour into a mold and put in a cold 
place to harden. When set turn out on a plate. 

Cranberry Pudding 

Cream one-half cup sugar and butter the size of a 
walnut. One-half cup milk, alternating with one cup 
flour twice sifted, one and one-half teaspoons Royal 
baking powder, one-half teaspoon salt, one cup cran- 
berries. Bake in moderate oven one-half hour. 

Sterling Sauce. Cream one-half cup butter and 
one cup brown sugar. Four tablespoons cream. 
Flavor with vanilla. Set in boiling water and beat 
well. Mollie Kingsbury Howard, '05. 

Cranberry Cream 

Rub through a sieve while hot one pint cranberries 
stewed in water until well done. Add one cup granu- 
lated sugar. Soak one-half box Knox gelatine in one- 
half cup water and add to berries while they are hot. 
When sugar and gelatine are dissolved, place the dish 
holding the mixture in ice or snow, and stir until it 
begins to thicken, then add one cup milk, and last of 
all same amount of whipped cream. Mix thorough^, 
pour into mold, and set on ice to harden. Whipped 
cream should be served with this delicacy. 

Mabel Whitaker, '14. 

Send for the Knox Gelatine recipe book 



THE ET A CO OK BOOK 83 

Prune Delight 

Boil prunes. Remove the stones and put a marsh- 
mallow in each place. The heat of prunes partly melts 
them. Roll in powdered sugar and chopped nuts. Serve 
with cream. Lillian H. Bennett, '15. 

Prune Pudding 

(A good way to use left-over stewed prunes) 
Add a little water, lemon juice and sugar, flavor 
with a pinch of cinnamon. Bring to boiling point and 
thicken with a little Kingsford's cornstarch previously 
diluted in cold water. Boil a few minutes, mold, chill 
and serve with sugar and cream. 

Mabelle Copp Nash, '00. 

Prune Whip 

One cup prunes, four or five apricots. Cook until 
tender, remove pits and skins. Add one-half cup sugar 
and allow to dissolve. Beat whites of two eggs very 
light, add prunes and beat twenty-five minutes. Serve 
with custard sauce made from the two yolks, two 
heaping tablespoons sugar and one and one-half cups 
milk, flavored with vanilla. 

Alice Hersey Monning, ex-'96. 

Lemon Jell-O Whip with Prunes 

(Marion Harland's Recipe) 

Dissolve one package of lemon Jell-0 in one pint 
boiling water and set it aside until it begins to thicken. 
Then beat with an egg beater until it reaches the consis- 
tency of whipped cream. Stir in one cup chopped prunes 

Knox Gelatine conies in two packages — Plain and Acidulated 
(lemon flavor) 



84 THE ETA COOK BOOK 

which have been stewed until very tender. Very much 
better if one cup of whipped cream is added. Then 
turn into mold to harden. Add more sugar to the 
water in which the prunes were cooked and boil this 
down to a thick syrup. When cold pour it about the 
base of the dessert, after you have turned this out, 
and arrange whole prunes as a garnish. 

Apricot Whip 

Soak, cook soft and rub through colander one and 
one-fourth cups dried apricots. Do not use the juice. 
Sweeten the sifted pulp and add the stiffiV beaten 
whites of two eggs. Whip thoroughly. Serve with 
custard sauce made from the two yolks and one pint 
milk, two heaping tablespoons sugar, salt, no flavoring. 
Alice Hersey Monning, ex-'96. 

Jell-O with Fruit 

Dissolve one package Jell-O, any flavor, in a pint of 
boiling water. Pour into a bowl or mold. Just as 
Jell-O is beginning to set, arrange in it, with the aid 
of a fork, sliced oranges and bananas, or peaches and 
strawberries, or cherries and currants, or any other 
fruit that may be preferred for the purpose. 



Nut and Date Torte 

Beat two eggs separately, add one cup broken-up 
walnuts, one cup broken-up dates, one-third cup flour 
sifted twice, and again with one teaspoon Royal bak- 
ing powder and a little salt; one cup sugar, one tea- 

Knox Gelatine is guaranteed to please or money back 



THE ETA COOK BOOK 85 

spoon vanilla. Bake in a moderate oven fifteen min- 
utes. Serve with whipped cream. 

Susan Meredith Smith, '04. 

Jellied Peaches 

Drain the syrup from a can of peaches and cut the 
fruit into small pieces. Measure the syrup and if there 
is not enough to make one pint add water. Heat 
S3^rup to boiling point, stir in one tablespoon Knox 
granulated gelatine dissolved in one-half cup cold 
water, add one tablespoon lemon juice, let stand until 
it begins to thicken, then add the peaches, turn into a 
mold and let harden. Serve with whipped cream. 

Lillian Eldridge Burr, '08. 

Raisin and Nut Souffle 

One-half cup raisins, one-half cup walnuts, whites 
five eggs, one-fourth teaspoon cream of tartar, one-half 
cup sugar, one pint milk, yolks three eggs, one-third 
cup sugar. Chop raisins and nuts, add one-half cup 
boiling water and simmer ten minutes. Beat whites 
of eggs and add cream of tartar, then sugar, raisins 
and nuts. Pour into mold, set into hot water and 
bake twenty-five minutes. Make custard as sauce. 
Edith Fowler Chase, ex-'93. 

Carrot Pudding- 
One and one-half cups flour (more if needed), one 
cup brown sugar, one cup suet, one cup chopped 
raisins, one cup currants, one cup grated carrots, one 
cup grated potatoes, one teaspoon soda, one teaspoon 

The Knox Acidulated package contains flavoring and coloring 



86 TH E E TA COOK BOOK 



salt, one chopped apple, spices. Bake four hours. No 
egg or milk. Any pudding sauce is good. 

Marion Benton, '12. 

Pettijohn Pudding 

One heaping cup pettijohn, one-half cup molasses, 
one-half cup sugar, one quart scalded milk, salt, little 
ginger. Alice W. Hammond, '13. 

Oatmeal Pudding- 
One quart milk, one cup oatmeal, one-half cup 
molasses, one-half cup sugar, butter cut over top, salt. 
Bake two hours. Serve with cream. Delicious. 

Edith L. Russell, '94. 

Cracked Wheat Pudding 

vSteam one cup cracked wheat in three cups water 
in a double boiler for five hours. Put in pudding dish 
one quart milk, two well-beaten eggs, one-half cup 
sugar, one cup raisins. Bake in slow oven for an hour. 
Serve with cream. Lena A. Glover, '97. 

Helen Glover, '13. 

Turkish Pudding 

One-half pint flour, one cup molasses, one cup milk, 
two tablespoons butter, one egg, one-half teaspoon 
salt, one-half teaspoon soda, one-fourth teaspoon nut- 
meg, one teaspoon cinnamon, one cup in all of prunes, 
figs, citron and dates, cut up in small pieces. Beat the 
butter to a cream, and beat into it the molasses, 
spices and salt. Dissolve the soda in the milk. Beat 
the egg until light, and beat it into the butter and 



Knox Gelatine makes desserts, salads, candies, puddings, ices, etc. 



THE ETA COOK HOOK 87 

molasses. Now add the milk and soda. Add the flour 
next, and finally the fruit, beating the mixture well. 
Turn into a buttered mold with a tight eover and 
steam for three hours. Serve with a hot liquid sauce. 
Helena M. Bullock, Alpha, ex-'94. 

Steamed Pudding without Suet 

One cup molasses, one-fourth cup butter, one cup 
milk, two cups flour, one teaspoon soda, one tea- 
spoon each cinnamon and cloves, one tablespoon each 
raisins, currants and citron. Steam three hours. 

Emily Tay Lawrence, ex-'06. 

Steamed Pudding 

One cup sour milk, one cup molasses, one-half cup 
lard, three and one-half cups flour, one large teaspoon 
soda, one cup raisins, one teaspoon ginger, one-half 
teaspoon cloves, one teaspoon cinnamon. Steam two 
hours. Edith Fowler Chase, ex-'93. 

Steamed English Pudding 

One cup sweet milk, one cup molasses, three cups 
flour, one cup stoned raisins, one teaspoon soda, one- 
half cup butter, one-half teaspoon clove, one-half tea- 
spoon nutmeg, one-half teaspoon ginger, one-half tea- 
spoon salt, one teaspoon cinnamon. Steam three hours. 
Serve hot with egg sauce. Margaret Mason, '15. 

Divinity Pudding 

Beat one egg } add one-third cup milk. Butter six 
slices of bread on each side. Dip in egg and milk and 



Use Knox Gelatine if you would be sure of results 



88 THE ETA COOK BOOK 

fry in butter. For sauce, beat one egg to a froth, add 
one-half cup sugar and flavor with vanilla and sherry. 

Gladys Damon, '14. 

Suet Pudding 

One cup molasses, one cup sweet milk, one cup suet 
chopped line, one cup raisins, one-half cup citron, both 
chopped, two and one-half cups flour,, one-half tea- 
spoon soda, one-half teaspoon cloves, cinnamon and 
a little salt. Mix well and steam two hours. 

Sauce: — One and one-half cups sugar, thoroughly 
creamed with a scant half-cup butter, one tablespoon 
Kingsford's cornstarch wet with a very little cold 
water and scalded with three-fourths cup boiling 
water. While this is hot pour it over the butter and 
sugar and stir well. Add any flavoring desired. A 
white of egg beaten very stiff is an improvement. 

Esther M. Nazarian, '17. 

Plum Pudding 

Line a buttered pudding dish with a layer of stale 
bread. Then put in a layer of raisins, a layer of bread 
alternating until the dish is full. Add one cup mo- 
lasses and milk to cover. Let it stand over night. 
In the morning add two well-beaten eggs. Cover the 
dish and bake the pudding in a slow oven for two or 
three hours. Serve cold with sweetened whipped 
cream. Ida B. Johnson, '92. 

Date Bread Custard 

One-half cup stale bread crumbs, one cup milk. 
Soak for one hour and add : Two beaten eggs, two- 

Simply add water and sugar to the Knox Acidulated package 



THE ETA COOK BOOK 89 

thirds cup sugar, two cups milk, two-thirds cup chop- 
ped dates, one teaspoon vanilla. Pour into buttered 
pudding dish and bake thirty to forty minutes in 
medium oven. Serve with hard sauce or cream. 

Edith Cobb Myers, ex-'08. 

Egg Sauce 

Yolks of three eggs, pinch of salt. Cream together 
one cup sugar and one tablespoon butter. Set over 
kettle of hot water. When read}' to serve add beaten 
whites and one teaspoon vanilla. 

Margaret Mason, '15. 

Coffee Sauce 

Make a boiled custard of a cup of clear black coffee, 
the yolks of three eggs and one-thircl cup sugar. When 
cold add one cup thick cream. 

Helen Meredith Crawford, '99. 

Iced Raspberries 

Sweeten and chill the berries. Just before serving 
pour over them a very cold dressing of orange juice, 
maraschino and a few drops of brandy. 

Pearl M. Pettingill, '02. 

Cream Filled Melons 

Select small melons. Remove seeds. Fill with 
sweetened whipped cream, English walnuts, preserved 
ginger and soft marshmallows cut in quarters. Chill. 

Blanche Richardson, '11. 

For dainty delicious desserts use Knox Gelatine 



90 THE ETA COOK BOOK 

Dainty Baked Apples 

Pare and core as many apples as needed. Fill the 
apples with sugar and pour a generous allowance over 
them and some in the pan. Water to make a rich 
syrup when baked. When all done place a marsh- 
mallow on the top of each apple and allow them just 
to brown, then remove from oven. Serve either hot 
or cold. Clara D. Pinkham, '01. 

Cranberries 

One quart cranberries, one and one-half cups water, 
two cups sugar. Cover closely. Cook ten minutes 
from time it bubbles all over. Do not stir. 

Ruth Wood Hoag, '99. 

Cranberry Sauce 

One quart cranberries, one pint boiling water, one 
pint sugar. Wash berries in hot water, have sugar 
hot and sauce pan very hot. Boil five minutes. 

Jelly. Boil seven minutes and strain through 
colander. Eloise H. Crocker, '97. 



£2 



"Pastry 



"Oh, pie, so oft despised, maligned, 
Yet to the Yankee heart most dear, 

So great thy merits do we find, 

Jin honored place we give thee here. 



Pie Crust 

Two cups flour, one cup lard or butter and lard 
mixed, one-half teaspoon salt. Mix these ingredients 
until moist. One-half cup ice water. 

Grace D. Runyon, ex-'14. 

Green Tomato Mincemeat 
Eight quarts green tomatoes chopped fine, drain 
off water, add as much water as juice, scald, pour off 
and repeat process. Add four pounds brown sugar, 
two pounds raisins chopped fine, one teacup vinegar, 
one cup chopped suet or butter, two tablespoons salt. 
Cook until tomatoes are color of raisins. When cool, 
add two tablespoons each cinnamon, cloves, ground 
nutmeg. You cannot tell this from the ''real thing." 

Hazel K. Miller, '09. 

Mock Cherry Pie 

One and one-half cups cut cranberries, one cup 
raisins, one cup sugar, one tablespoon flour, one cup 

Pink coloring for fancy desserts in each package of Knox Gelatine 



92 THE ETA COOK BOOK 

boiling water, one teaspoon vanilla. Cook until thick. 
Cool and bake between two crusts. 

Emily P. Burdon, '14. 

Date Pie 

One-half pound stoned dates. Put in cold water and 
stew until soft. One egg, two tablespoons sugar, a 
little salt, one pint milk. Bake as you would a pump- 
kin pie. Alice W. Hammond, '13. 

Buttered Apple Pie 

Slice apples into pie plate which has no crust in it. 
Cover with crust. When it is baked turn out into a 
plate, thus bringing apples on top. Sprinkle with three- 
fourths cup sugar, nutmeg and pieces butter. Serve 
hot. Lena A. Glover, '97. 

Helen Glover, '13. 

New Bng-land Chocolate Pie 

One-half cup sugar, two level tablespoons Kings - 
ford's cornstarch, one tablespoon Baker's chocolate or 
cocoa, yolks of two eggs, a little salt, vanilla. Cook 
in a double boiler like soft custard. Cover a pie plate 
with crust and bake. Pour in custard and brown in 
oven. 

Meringue. Whites of two eggs, one tablespoon 
sugar. Put in hot oven for five minutes to brown. 
Mabel Bancroft Phillips, '04. 

Coffee Pie 

One cup sugar, one-fourth cup butter, two eggs, 
one-half cup milk, one small teaspoon soda, two small 

Try Knox Acidulated Gelatine with the lemon flavor enclosed 



THE ETA COOK BOOK 93 

teaspoons cream of tartar, salt and flavor to taste, 
two cups flour. Bake in two or three layers. 

Filling. One cup strong coffee, one-half cup sugar. 
Boil down to one-half cup. Add one-half pint whipped 
cream. Maria Grey Kimball, '02. 

Lemon Pie 
One cup boiling water, one cup sugar, grated rind 
of one lemon, one tablespoon Kingsford's cornstarch 
dissolved in cold water and put into the mixture. Let 
boil. Take off and add one beaten Qgg, juice of one 
lemon, butter size of nutmeg, pinch of salt. 

Sara M. Cole, ex-'14. 

Lemon Pie 

One cup sugar, one heaping tablespoon Kingsford's 
cornstarch. Add one cup boiling water to well-mixed 
sugar and cornstarch and cook five minutes. Remove 
from fire and add two well beaten egg yolks, mixed 
with juice and grated rind of one lemon. Piece of 
butter size of walnut. Cool a little and pour into crust. 

Meringue. Acid to the whites of two eggs, one- 
half cup sugar and one tablespoon lemon juice or one- 
half teaspoon vanilla. Beat until stiff, and brown. 
Elizabeth R. Meredith. '07. 

Lemon Pie 

One tablespoon flour, one cup sugar, one tablespoon 

butter, two eggs, juice and rind of one lemon, one cup 

milk scalded and cooled. Cream together first three 

ingredients. Add yolks of well beaten eggs, juice and 

Knox Gelatine makes dainty desserts for dainty people 



94 THE ETA COOK BOOK 

rind of lemon, then milk and last the whites of eggs 
beaten stiff. Bake until brown. 

Susan Jackson Dean, '04. 

Lemon Pie 
One cup sugar, two tablespoons Kingsford's corn- 
starch, juice and rind of one lemon, yolks of two 
beaten eggs, piece of butter size of walnut, one cup 
boiling water. Cook the above in double boiler until 
thick. Put into baked crust. Just before serving add 
the frosting made as follows : Beat whites of two eggs 
until stiff. Add three tablespoons granulated sugar. 
Beat eggs and sugar again until very stiff. Add to 
pie and put in oven to brown. Maud V. O'Neil, '05. 

Sponge Lemon Pie 
One large cup sugar, two tablespoons flour, one 
lemon, one cup boiling water, salt, three eggs. Use 
grated rind and juice of lemon. Mix boiling water, 
flour, sugar, and lemon. Add salt. Then add well 
beaten 3'olks, stir smooth, and last add stiffly beaten 
whites. Bake in deep plate lined with pastry, without 
top crust. Oven should be rather slow. 

Lula Scott Underhill, '05. 



T)oughnuts and Cookies 



" (Between the optimist and pessimist 

'Uhe difference is droll, 
'Che optimist sees the doughnut 

'Uhe pessimist, the hole. 



Doughnuts 

Beat one egg in a mixing bowl, add one-half cup 
buttermilk or sour milk. Sift together and stir into 
the above, two and one-half cups sifted flour, one- 
half cup sugar, one-half teaspoon Royal baking 
powder, one-half teaspoon soda, one teaspoon salt 
and a little grated nutmeg or cinnamon. Fry in very 
hot fat. Gertrude Gilman, '92. 

Doughnuts 

One cup milk, sour if possible, one cup sugar, one 
egg, one teaspoon saleratus, one teaspoon salt. 

Gladys M. Walley, '05. 

Baptist Doughnuts 

One egg, one cup milk, salt, two teaspoons Royal 
baking powder, flour to make a thin batter to drop 
off spoon easily. Fry in deep fat and serve hot with 
syrup. Helen Deering, '11. 

Knox Acidulated Gelatine saves the cost, time and bother of squeez- 
ing lemons 



96 THE ETA COOK BOOK 

New York State Fried Cakes 

Two eggs, one cup sugar, two tablespoons melted 
butter (measure after melted), one cup milk, a little 
nutmeg and salt, three teaspoons Royal baking powder 
in flour enough to mix a soft dough. Roll out on board 
the same as for doughnuts, using dough as soft as can 
be handled . Cut with a small biscuit cutter and pierce 
in centre for air hole with the end of little finger. Fry 
in deep fat, only six in kettle at once, turning over 
continuously until they puff out like a ball. Run fork 
through to be sure they are done in centre. Sprinkle 
when cool with powdered sugar. 

Cordelia Losey Baldwin, Alpha, ex-' 94. 

Chocolate Cookies 

One-half cup butter, two squares Baker's chocolate, 
one cup sugar, two and one-half scant cups flour, one 
egg, salt, two teaspoons Royal baking powder, one- 
fourth cup milk. Cream butter, add sugar gradually, 
well beaten egg, salt, and melted chocolate. Beat well. 
Add flour mixed with baking powder, alternately with 
milk. Chill, roll very thin, shape or cut, and bake in 
quick oven. Ruth Hazeltine, '14. 

Brownies 

Two eggs beaten separately, one cup sugar, one- 
half cup butter, two squares Baker's chocolate, one- 
half cup flour, one cup chopped walnuts, one teaspoon 
vanilla. Melt chocolate and butter together. Add 
other ingredients. Drop b}' teaspoon on buttered tins 
and bake. Bessie Goddard, '13. 

See that the name K-N-O-X is on each package of gelatine you buy 



THE E T A CO O K BOOK 97 

Chocolate Cookies 

One-half cup butter, one cup sugar, two eggs, one- 
half cup flour, pinch salt, vanilla, two squares Baker's 
chocolate, three-fourths cup walnuts. Bake in large 
pan one-third inch thick. Cook in slow oven. Cut in 
squares and cool in pan. 

Constance F. Coan, '02. 

Chocolate Nut Cookies 

Beat one-half cup butter to a cream, gradually beat 
in one cup sugar, two eggs, beaten without separating 
the whites and yolks, then two rounding teaspoons 
Baker's cocoa, one tablespoon sweet milk, one tea- 
spoon vanilla and two cups sifted pastry flour, sifted 
again with two slightly rounded teaspoons Royal bak- 
ing powder, one cup chopped nut meats. Drop by tea- 
spoon, some distance apart, on buttered sheets. Quick 
oven. Elizabeth J. Sweet, '11. 

Cocoanut Drops 

Whites of two eggs beaten stiff, one large tablespoon 
flour, mixed with one cup powdered sugar. Sift flour 
and sugar and add to beaten whites, then stir in 
enough shredded cocoanut to make mixture stiff. Drop 
from a teaspoon into buttered tins and bake in a very 
slow oven. Cordelia Losey Baldwin, Alpha, ex-'94. 

Cocoanut Cookies 

One cup sugar, one-third cup butter, one egg, two 
tablespoons milk, one and one-half teaspoons Royal 
baking powder, salt, one cup shredded cocoanut, flour 
to thicken. Cream butter and sugar. Add beaten egg, 

Knox Acidulated Gelatine-no bother— no trouble-no squeezing lemons 

7 



98 THE ETA COOK BOOK 

milk, cocoanut and dry ingredients mixed. Bake about 
ten minutes. Harriet Webster, '03. 

Cocoanut Macaroons 

Whites of three eggs beaten stiff, one cup sugar well 
beaten in. Fold in heaping tablespoon flour. One tea- 
spoon vanilla, one-half pound shredded cocoanut. Bake 
all at once. They do not swell. 

Eunice T. Thomas, '05. 

Cocoanut Puffs 

Whites of three eggs beaten stiff, one cup granu- 
lated sugar, one tablespoon Kingsford's cornstarch. 
Put in a double boiler and boil fifteen minutes, stirring 
occasionalh r . Remove from fire and stir in two cups 
cocoanut and two teaspoons vanilla. Drop on buttered 
pans and bake in slow oven until light brown. Wait 
until cool before removing from pan. 

Maud V. O'Neil, '05. 

Ginger Crisps 

One-half cup butter, one cup sugar, one egg, one tea- 
spoon ginger, one even teaspoon soda dissolved in two 
teaspoons milk. Flour to roll. Turn a dripping pan 
upside down and roll out on the bottom of it as thin 
as possible. Bake in a quick oven and cut like wafers. 

Ida M. Sawyer, '98. 

Ginger Drops 

One and one-half cups molasses. Cream together 
one-half cup sugar, one-half cup butter. Two eggs, 
large pinch salt, one teaspoon ginger, one teaspoon 

Where recipes call for gelatine use Knox Gelatine 



THE ETA COOK BOOK 99 

cinnamon, two teaspoons soda, three to four cups 
flour. Drop by teaspoons on a buttered tin. 

Margaret Mason, '15. 

Ginger Snaps 

One cup molasses, one-half cup shortening, three and 
one-fourth cups flour, one-half teaspoon soda, one 
tablespoon ginger, one and one-half teaspoons salt. 
Heat molasses to boiling point and pour over short- 
ening. Add ingredients mixed and sifted. Chill thor- 
oughly. Toss one-fourth of mixture on floured board 
and roll as thin as possible. Cut with small cutter 
and bake in moderate oven. While rolling, remaining 
mixture should be kept in a cool place. 

Celia Tilton Donaldson, ex-'07. 

Ginger Snaps 

One cup molasses, mix together one-half cup butter 
and lard, one teaspoon soda, one teaspoon each of 
ginger and cinnamon, pinch of salt, three-fourths tea- 
spoon lemon (may omit). Flour enough to roll very 
thin. Boil molasses and shortening together. 

Ruth Lamont, '15. 

Drop Cakes 

Two cups rolled oats, one cup melted shortening 
poured over oats, one cup raisins, one cup sugar, four 
tablespoons sweet milk, one teaspoon soda, one-half 
teaspoon cloves, one teaspoon cinnamon, two eggs, 
two cups flour, little salt. Drop from teaspoon on 
greased tins. Daisy Raymond, ex-'94. 

Four pints of jelly in each package of Knox Gelatine 



100 THE ETA COOK BOOK 

Molasses Drop Cakes 

Beat together one cup sugar, one-fourth cup butter, 
one egg; one-half teaspoon soda in one-half cup 
molasses, one-half teaspoon soda in one-half cup 
water, one-half cup raisins or currants, spice to taste 
(cinnamon and nutmeg), three cups flour. 

Helen L. Lacount, '08. 

Molasses Cookies 

One cup molasses, one-half cup shortening (butter 
and lard mixed), two and one-half cups flour, one 
tablespoon ginger, one tablespoon soda, two table- 
spoons warm milk, one teaspoon salt. Heat molasses 
to boiling point, add shortening, ginger, soda dis- 
solved in warm milk, salt and flour. Roll, cut, bake 
in a moderate oven. Amy Bridges Rice, '86. 

Hermits 

One cup butter, one and one-half cups sugar, three 
eggs, one-half teaspoon (rounded) soda, one-fourth cup 
milk, one-half teaspoon (rounded) each of clove and 
cinnamon, a little nutmeg, a little salt, one cup raisins 
chopped fine, flour enough to roll (about a quart and 
one cup). Mix rather soft. Cool on ice. Roll thick. 
Makes fifty. Helen L. Follansbee, '00. 

Hermits (Drop Cookies) 

One-third cup butter, two-thirds cup sugar, one egg, 
two tablespoons milk, two teaspoons Royal baking 
powder, one-third cup raisins, one-half cup nuts, one- 
half teaspoon cinnamon, one-fourth teaspoon cloves 

Knox Gelatine is measured ready for use — each package is divided 
into two envelopes 



THE ETA COOK BOOK 101 

one-fourth teaspoon nutmeg, one and three-fourths 
cups flour. Cream butter, add sugar, then nuts and 
raisins, egg and then milk. Mix and sift dry ingred- 
ients and add to above. Drop with teaspoon. Is rather 
stiff. Marion S. Butterfield, '10. 

Hermits 

Scant two-thirds cup shortening, two tablespoons 
molasses, one cup sugar, one egg, two-thirds cup milk, 
one cup chopped raisins, two and one-fourth cups flour, 
three teaspoons Royal baking powder, one teaspoon 
each salt, ginger, cinnamon, a little nutmeg. Warm 
the shortening and molasses in the mixing bowl, add 
the sugar, then the beaten egg, to which the milk has 
been added. Sift dry ingredients and add. Drop on 
pans and bake in a moderately hot oven. 

Clara Came Jerome, '99. 

California Rocks 

One scant cup butter, one and one-half cups brown 
sugar, two well-beaten eggs, one teaspoon soda dis- 
solved in one-third cup boiling water, one cup walnuts, 
one cup raisins. Drop with teaspoon on buttered tins 
and bake in moderate oven. 

Annie Caffin Swett, '08. 

Rocks 

One and one-half cups sugar, one cup creamed but- 
ter, three eggs, two and one-half cups flour (measured 
before sifting) one teaspoon soda in flour, one teaspoon 
cinnamon, one and one-half cups raisins, one cup nuts, 
salt. Drop from teaspoon on cookie sheet. 

Cora Kenty Travis, '01. 

Knox Gelatine solves the problem of "What to have for dessert?" 



102 THE ETA COOK BOOK 

Rocks 

One cup butter, one cup sugar, three eggs beaten 
separately, one cup raisins, one cup nuts, one-half cup 
currants, two and one-fourth cups flour, one level tea- 
spoon soda in one and one-half teaspoons boiling 
water, one-half teaspoon each of clove, cinnamon and 
nutmeg. Cream butter and sugar together, add the 
eggs, then stir in the rest by hand. Drop a teaspoon at 
a time on an unbuttered tin. 

Helen Meredith Crawford, '99. 

Peanut Cookies 

Two rounding tablespoons butter, one egg, one-half 
cup sugar, one large pinch salt, one teaspoon Royal 
baking powder, one cup pastry flour, one teaspoon 
vanilla, four tablespoons milk, one cup chopped pea- 
nuts. Drop by small spoonfuls on buttered pan. 

Elizabeth J. Sweet, '11. 

Pecan Nut Macaroons 

White one egg, one cup brown sugar, one cup pecan 
nut meats, one-fourth teaspoon salt. Beat white of 
egg until light and add gradually the sugar, beating 
constantly. Fold in nut meats finely chopped and 
sprinkled with salt. Drop from tip of spoon, one inch 
apart, on buttered sheet and bake in moderate oven 
until delicately browned. 

Helen Dorr Volpe, '04. 

Nut Squares 

(For afternoon teas) 

Beat one egg and one cup brown sugar, add one 

Knox Gelatine is economical — Four Pints in each package 



THE ETA COOK BOOK 103 

cup chopped English walnuts, pinch of salt, one-fourth 
saltspoon soda, five tablespoons flour. Spread in 
buttered tin. Bake about twenty minutes, mark in 
squares. Edith L. Russell, '94. 

Rolled Oats Cookies 

One cup sugar, two eggs, one cup butter, two 
tablespoons milk, one cup rolled oats, one-half cup 
flour, salt. Drop by teaspoon on a buttered pan, a 
little distance apart. Bake. Gladys Damon, '14. 

Oatmeal Macaroons 

One-fourth cup butter, one-half cup brown sugar, 
one egg, one-half cup flour, one teaspoon Royal bak- 
ing powder, one and one-fourth cups rolled oats, 
one-half cup shredded cocoanut. Bake in dabs on 
buttered pan. Quick oven. If mixture is too stiff add 
cup of milk. Geraldine Mitchell Thompson, '04. 

Oatmeal Cookies 

Two and one-half cups Quaker oats, one cup sugar, 
two eggs, one tablespoon melted butter, one teaspoon 
Royal baking powder. Drop on buttered tins in hot 
oven. Edith Lynch Bolster, '90. 

Gee-Whizzes 

One well beaten egg, one tablespoon melted butter, 
one-half cup sugar, rolled oats enough to make it fairly 
stiff, one teaspoon almond extract. Drop from tea- 
spoon on pan and bake quickly in hot oven. 

Maude Lawton, '02. 

Try the Knox Gelatine recipes found in this book 



104 THE ETA CO OR BOOK 

Sugar Cookies 

Two cups sugar, one-half cup butter, one-half cup 
lard, two eggs, one small teaspoon soda, dissolved in 
one-half cup sour or sweet milk, two small teaspoons 
cream of tartar, flour enough to roll out, flavoring. 
Roll very thin. Make day before and chill dough over 
night. Gladys M. Walley, '05. 

Sugar Cookies 

Scant one cup butter, two cups sugar, two eggs, 
scant one-half cup milk, salt, nutmeg, one-half tea- 
spoon soda, one teaspoon cream of tartar, flour to 
roll out. Dust sugar and flour over and bake in a 
hot oven. Gladys Damon, '14. 

Dainty Vanilla Wafers 

One cup sugar, two-thirds cup butter, four table- 
spoons milk, one tablespoon vanilla, one egg, one and 
one-half teaspoons cream of tartar, two-thirds tea- 
spoon soda, flour to roll very thin. Cut in small, fanc)^ 
shapes. Ruth Lamont, '15. 

Rich, Delicate Cookies 

One-half pound butter creamed with one-fourth 
pound pulverized sugar. Add yolks of two hard boiled, 
mashed eggs, also two raw Qgg yolks, two and one- 
half tablespoons cream, one teaspoon almond extract 
and flour enough to roll (as little as possible). Cut 
very small. These are very nice to serve with after- 
noon tea and will keep indefinitely. 

Alice Hersey Monning, ex-' 96. 

Desserts can be made in a short time with Knox Gelatine 



THE ETA COOK BOOK 105 

Maxim Cookies 

Cream one and one-half cups sugar and one cup 
butter. When creamed thoroughly, add three eggs, 
one teaspoon soda dissolved in one-third cup water, 
two and one-half cups flour, one cup seeded raisins, 
and three-fourths cup ground English walnut meats. 

Grace D. Runyon, ex-'14. 

Kewpies 

Roll out pie paste very thin and cut into circles 
with a small cookie cutter. Put one teaspoon pre- 
served cherries or anything else of the sort on one side, 
fasten the other over it and bake. They should be very 
small but fat in the middle — hence the name! 

Maude Lawton, '02. 

Rosalie's Filled Cookies 

Cream together one cup sugar and one-half cup 
butter, add one well-beaten egg, one-half cup milk, 
three and one-half cups sifted flour, with one teaspoon 
soda and two teaspoons cream of tartar, flavor with 
lemon. Cut out as for cookies and put one teaspoon 
filling between what would be two cookies, press to- 
gether and bake. For filling, cook until thick one-half 
cup chopped raisins, juice and rind of one-half lemon, 
one-half cup sugar, one-half cup water, one heaping 
teaspoon Kingsford's cornstarch. 

Hazel K. Miller, '09. 

Butter Thin Nutlets 

Beat the white of one egg stiff, stir in enough 
powdered sugar to make thick. Add one-half cup 



Use Knox Gelatine — the two-quart package 



106 THE ETA COOK BOOK 

chopped walnuts and spread quite thick on butter- 
thins and brown in the oven. Nice to serve with hot 
chocolate or for lunches. Celia McLennan, '17. 

Marguerites 

Whites of two eggs stiffly beaten, one small cup 
powdered sugar, one large cup broken walnut meats. 
Spread on buttered butter thins and brown in oven. 
Margaret Morrow Percy, ex-' 10. 

Kisses 

White of one egg, beaten stiff. Thirteen teaspoons 
granulated sugar. Orange or vanilla flavoring. Push 
from spoon on to unbuttered brown paper, placed on 
baking tin. Bake in slow oven about twenty minutes. 
This mixture makes twenty kisses. 

Mabel Fogg Ames, '95. 

Cheese Sticks 

One level cup flour, one level teaspoon salt, one level 
cup grated cheese, one scant teaspoon Royal baking 
powder, one-half cup cold water. Sift flour before 
measuring. Then sift again with all dry ingredients. 
Add the cheese and mix to a stiff dough with cold 
water. Roll out, cut in strips. Bake in hot oven un- 
til brown. Victoria M. H. Zeller, '08. 

Cream Puffs 
Let boil together two-thirds cup boiling water and 
one-third cup butter. Stir into the butter and water 
two-thirds cup flour. Remove from fire, cool slightly 
and beat in two unbeaten eggs, one at a time. Drop 
on a buttered pan. This rule makes eight. 

Jessie Loud Potter, '06. 

Knox Gelatine makes a transparent, tender, quivering jelly 



Cafes 



' ' With Weights and measures just and true, 

Oven of even heat, 
Well buttered tins and quiet nerves, 

Success will be complete. 



Hot Milk Cake 

Two well beaten eggs, one cup sugar, one and one- 
half cups flour, one scant teaspoon salt, one teaspoon 
cream of tartar, one-half cup boiling milk, one-half 
teaspoon soda, one teaspoon vanilla. 

Maple Frosting. One cup brown sugar, four table- 
spoons boiling water. Boil until it threads. Add well 
beaten white of one egg. Beat until thick. 

Elizabeth Goodwin Adams, '07. 

Hot Milk Cake 

Beat two eggs, add one cup sugar and one cup flour 
with one teaspoon Royal baking powder. Flavor as 
desired . Let one-half cup milk come to the boiling point, 
put into it one scant tablespoon butter and add to 
the first mixture. Beat well and bake immediately. 
The result is a loaf light as sponge cake but a little 
more moist and so, easier to keep. 

Bessie Goddard, '13. 



Knox Gelatine is the one dessert for all appetites 



108 THE ETA COOK BOOK 

Milkless, Bggless, Butterless Cake 

One cup brown sugar, one cup water, two cups 
raisins, pinch of salt, one-third cup lard, one teaspoon 
nutmeg, one teaspoon cinnamon, one-half teaspoon 
cloves. Boil the above together for three minutes and 
cool. Add one teaspoon soda dissolved in hot water, 
two cups flour, one and one-half teaspoons Royal 
baking powder sifted with flour. Bake in moderate 
oven for forty-five minutes. 

Julia Cole Yarnall, '87. 

Mountain Cake 

One-half cup butter, one cup sugar, one-half cup 
milk, two teaspoons Royal baking powder in one and 
three-fourths cups flour, two well-beaten eggs, nutmeg. 
When flavored with vanilla makes an excellent founda- 
tion for la} r er cakes. 

Charlessie McKinnon, '09. 

Hot Milk Sponge Cake 

One cup sugar, two eggs, one-half cup hot milk, one 
heaping cup flour, one teaspoon vanilla, one teaspoon 
Royal baking powder, pinch of salt. Take yolks of 
eggs, beat with the sugar, add whites beaten separate- 
ly, then the flour to which Royal baking powder 
and salt have been added, vanilla and last the hot 
milk. Helen G. Durgin, '13. 

Sponge Cake 

Four eggs, one cup sugar, one and one-half table- 
spoons Kingsford's cornstarch in three tablespoons 
cold water, one scant cup flour, one-half teaspoon salt, 

Give the growing children Knox Gelatine 



THE ETA COOK BOOK 109 

one and one-fourth teaspoons Royal baking powder, 
one teaspoon lemon juice. Bake in gem pans in mod- 
erate oven. Ruth Wood Hoag, '99. 

Sponge Cake 

Yolks of five eggs beaten with one cup sugar, add 
one cup flour, one tablespoon lemon juice, or extract, 
one saltspoon salt, whites five eggs beaten stiff. Bake 
in slow oven forty-five minutes. 

Amy Bridges Rice, '86. 

Sponge Cake 

Four eggs, two cups sugar, two cups flour, two 
teaspoons cream of tartar, one teaspoon soda, two- 
thirds cup hot water last. Flavor to taste. 

Lillian E. Downs, '86. 

Sponge Cake 

Five eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately, the 
latter to a very stiff froth, one cup sugar, mix with 
beaten whites then add beaten yolks, one cup flour 
folded in, must not be beaten. Flavor with vanilla 
or not as desired. Bake until done, use judgment. 
Sprinkle powdered sugar over the top. 

Frances P. Copeland, ex-'05. 

Dingbats 

Sponge cake mixture baked in tiny muffin tins, 
covered with an icing made of confectioner's sugar 
beaten into one well beaten egg, flavored as you will. 
The top of each dingbat is adorned with a half walnut. 

Maude Lawton, '02. 

Knox Gelatine is clear and sparkling 



110 THE ETA COOK BOOK 

Sponge Cake 

Separate four eggs. Beat yolks thick. Add one cup 
sugar and continue beating. Beat whites stiff and beat 
into first mixture. Add one teaspoon Ro}^al baking 
powder to one-half cup Health brand potato flour and 
sift into first mixture. Bake in moderate oven thirty 
minutes. Marion Benton, '12. 

Never-fail Sponge Cake 

Beat three eggs until very light, two and one-half 
tablespoons cold water, one-half tablespoon lemon ex- 
tract, salt, one cup sugar, one cup flour. 

Clara D. Pinkham, '01. 

Mother's Pound Cake 

Cream one cup butter, add one and one-fourth cups 
sugar, fold in the yolks of four eggs then add the 
whites beaten stifl, one and one half-cups flour, salt. 
Bake about one hour in a slow oven. 

Katherine I. Hodgdon, '93. 

An Easy Cake 

Sift together one cup sugar, one cup flour, one tea- 
spoon cream of tartar, one-half teaspoon soda, salt. 
To this add the following : one-fourth cup melted but- 
ter, a little milk, break in two eggs without beating, 
and fill cup with milk. Flavoring. 

Edith L. Russell, '94. 

Plain Cake 

Cream one cap sugar with scant one-half cup butter, 
add two beaten eggs and beat well. Add two cups 

A Knox Gelatine dessert or salad is attractive and appetizing 



THE ETA COOK BOOK HI 

sifted flour, two teaspoons Royal baking powder and 
one-half cup milk. 

Mocha Frosting. Two tablespoons cold coffee, 
two teaspoons Baker's cocoa, little vanilla. Heat and 
melt in small piece butter. Add confectioner's sugar 
to spread. Grace Hayden Franklin, '07. 

Quick Cake 

One cup flour, one cup sugar, two eggs, one tea- 
spoon Royal baking powder, one-fourth cup melted 
butter, milk. Sift flour, sugar and powder together 
into mixing dish. Break eggs into melted butter, fill 
cup with milk and add to dry ingredients. Beat well 
together. Flavor. Susan Jackson Dean, '04. 

Snow Cake 

One-fourth cup butter, one cup sugar, one-half cup 
milk, one and two-third cups flour, two and one-half 
teaspoons Royal baking powder, whites two eggs. 
Flavor with orange or almond. Bake forty-five min- 
utes in deep narrow pan. 

Annie Caffin Swett, '08. 

Western White Cake 

Cream one and one-half cups sugar and one-half 
cup butter, one-half cup milk, two cups flour, one 
heaping teaspoon Royal baking powder, whites of 
six eggs beaten dry. Flavor with lemon. Bake in a 
moderate oven. Grace D. Runyon, ex-'14. 

Vienna Cake 

Four egg yolks, six egg whites, one cup fine gran- 
Ask your grocer for Knox Gelatine — take no other 



112 THE ETA COOK BOOK 

ulated sugar, three tablespoons cold water, one and 
one-half tablespoons Kingsford's cornstarch, pastry 
flour, one and one-fourth teaspoons Royal baking 
powder, one-fourth teaspoon salt, one teaspoon lemon 
extract. Beat yolks until thick, and add sugar gradu- 
ally, while beating. Then add water. Put cornstarch 
in a cup, and add enough flour to fill the cup. Add 
salt and baking powder to these dry ingredients, and 
combine with first mixture. Add stiffly beaten whites, 
and flavor. Turn into buttered and floured angel cake 
pan and bake in moderate oven from thirty-five to forty 
minutes. Lula Scott Underhill, '05. 

Park Street Cake 

Cream two cups sugar and one-half cup butter. 
Three or four eggs, yolks separate, one cup milk, sift 
together three cups pastry flour, one teaspoon cream of 
tartar and one-half teaspoon soda, one and one-half 
teaspoons vanilla, one-fourth teaspoon salt. Add 
flavoring and fold in whites of eggs last. 

Margaret Morrow Percy, ex-'lO. 

White Cake 

Two cups sugar, one cup butter, whites six eggs, 
one cup milk, three cups flour, one teaspoon Royal 
baking powder. Flavor with almond. 

Eloise H. Crocker, '97. 

Birthday Cake 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, three eggs, three 
full cups pastry flour, one teaspoon cream of tartar, 
one cup milk, one-half teaspoon soda. Cream thor- 

Knox Gelatine improves soups and gravies 



THE ETA COOK BOOK 113 

oughly butter and sugar. Add to this the yolks of the 
eggs. Rub into flour the cream of tartar and add this 
to mixture. Then add milk with one-half teaspoon 
soda. Last of all add the whites of eggs beaten stiff. 

Avis Sherburne, '14. 

Orange Cake 

Yolks of four eggs well beaten. Add one-half cup 
cold water in which is dissolved one-half teaspoon 
soda. Beat whites of two eggs stiff. Add one and 
one-half cups sugar. Then add yolks, also juice and 
rind of one orange. Stir in two cups sifted flour, one 
teaspoon cream of tartar and a pinch of salt. Bake 
in three layers. 

Frosting and Filling for Orange Cake. Whites 
of two eggs beaten stiff. Cook until very stiff. Add 
two cups sugar, one-half cup boiling water. Pour 
slowly over beaten whites while stirring. Beat. Add 
juice and grated rind of one-half orange. Let cool and 
then spread on cakes. Blanche Richardson, '11. 

Orange Cake 

One and one-half cups sugar creamed with one-half 
cup butter, two-thirds cup milk, two cups flour, one 
and one-half teaspoons Ro3^al baking powder, juice 
and grated peel of one orange, yolks two eggs and 
one whole one. 

Frosting. Whites two eggs made thick with con- 
fectioner's sugar, flavored with the grated peel of one 
orange. Florence Wheeler Atwood, '02. 

Send for free sample of Knox Gelatine 



114 THE ETA COOK BOOK 

Orange Cake 

One cup sugar, one cup flour, one-fourth cup water, 
yolks three eggs, whites two eggs, one teaspoon Royal 
baking powder, juice and grated rind of one-half 
orange. Beat whites of eggs stiff, add sugar, mix 
thoroughly. Add yolks of eggs beaten previously for 
five minutes, then water, orange juice and rind, flour 
and baking powder. 

Frosting. White of one egg beaten stiff, juice and 
rind of one-half orange, powdered sugar to make stiff. 

Ruth Haseltine, '14. 

Orange Cake 

Three cups sifted flour, two teaspoons Royal bak- 
ing powder, two-thirds cup butter, two cups sugar, 
four eggs, one cup milk. Cream butter and sugar. 
Beat each egg in separately. Add first an egg, then 
a little flour, then some milk and more flour and so 
on, beating thoroughly after each. Bake in one large 
tin or two small ones. 

Lena Chandler Mason, ex-'13. 

Minnehaha Cake 

One-half cup butter, one cup sugar, two well beaten 
eggs, two-thirds cup milk, one and three-fourths cups 
flour, one teaspoon vanilla, two teaspoons Royal 
baking powder. Bake in two la^^ers. 

Filling. One cup sugar, four tablespoons water. 
Boil until it threads, then add the well beaten white 
of an egg and one cup chopped raisins. Beat well. 
Place between la}rers and over top. 

Elizabeth Goodwin Adams, '07. 

Send for the Knox Gelatine recipe book 



THE ETA COOK BOOK 11 5 

Nut Cake 

One cup sugar, one-fourth cup butter, two eggs, 
one-half cup milk, one and one-half cups flour, one 
cup walnut meats cut fine, one-half teaspoon soda and 
one teaspoon cream of tartar sifted with the flour. 

Jessie Loud Potter, '06. 

Brown-Stone-Front Cake 

One cup sugar and one-half cup butter creamed , three 
eggs, leaving out one yolk. Dissolve one teaspoon soda 
in one-half cup milk, two heaping cups flour. Grate two 
squares Baker's chocolate, three-fourths cup milk, yolk 
of egg, one cup sugar. Let this boil up two or three 
times and cool. Then mix with the first and add one 
teaspoon vanilla. Bake about forty minutes. 

Helen L. Lacount, '08. 

Caramel Cake and Frosting 

Three-fourths cup butter, one and one-half cups 
sugar, one-half cup milk, two and one-half cups flour, 
one-half teaspoon cream of tartar, three teaspoons 
Royal baking powder, whites of eight eggs, one cup 
cut walnuts. Makes two loaves. 

Frosting. One and one-half cups brown sugar, 
one-half cup granulated sugar, one-third cup boiling 
water. Let boil until it hairs, take off and pour slowly 
over the beaten whites of two eggs. Beat as long as 
possible, then put it over a kettle of boiling water and 
stir until it grains. Add one-fourth teaspoon vanilla 
and one-fourth teaspoon almond extract. 

Alice C. Abbott, '98. 

Knox Gelatine comes in two packages — Plain and Acidulated 
(lemon flavor) 



116 THE ETA COOK BOOK 

Caramel Cake 

Put whites two eggs in a cooking cup. Pour in 
enough melted butter to make one-half cup. Fill up 
the cup with milk. Add one cup sugar, almost one 
and one-fourth cups flour (one heaping cup unsifted 
flour, sift after measuring), one and one-half teaspoons 
Royal baking powder. Put two parts together and 
beat ten minutes. One loaf. 

Alice C. Abbott, '98. 

Cocoa Loaf 

One cup sugar, one cup sour milk, one teaspoon 
soda, yolk of one egg } one and one-half cups flour, 
three tablespoons Baker's cocoa, salt, three table- 
spoons melted butter, Baker's vanilla. Mix sugar, 
milk and soda. Stir well. Add yolks of eggs, salt and 
flour. Beat well and acid cocoa dissolved in butter. 
Flavor. Ruth Lamont, '15. 

Cocoa Cake 

One-half cup Baker's cocoa, one cup sugar, one-half 
cup cold water. Mix these ingredients and add three 
eggs, one and one-half teaspoons Royal baking powder, 
one-half cup flour, pinch of salt sifted in flour. Bake in 
moderate oven forty minutes. Julia Cole Yarnall,'87. 

Chocolate Cake 

One-fourth cup Baker's cocoa, one cup sugar, one 
and one-half cups flour (measured before sifted), one 
teaspoon soda, little salt. Sift all together five times. 
One cup sour milk, two tablespoons melted butter, one 
egg, vanilla. • . Sara M. Cole, ex- '14. 

Knox Gelatine is guaranteed to please or money back 



THE ETA COOK BOOK 117 

Chocolate Cake Made with Sour Milk 

One-half cup butter, one and one-half cups sugar, 
two eggs, two squares Baker's chocolate, one-half cup 
boiling water, one-half cup sour milk, one teaspoon 
soda, one teaspoon vanilla, two and one-half cups 
pastry flour. Directions : Cream butter and sugar to- 
gether. Add well beaten eggs, chocolate dissolved in 
one-half cup boiling water, soda stirred into sour milk, 
flour and flavoring. Bake in moderate oven forty 
minutes. Harriet Sawyer Holden, '93. 

Chocolate Cake 

One cup sugar, one tablespoon butter, yolk of one 
egg, two squares Baker's chocolate melted, one-half 
cup sweet milk, one-half cup sour milk, one and one- 
half cups flour sifted twice, one teaspoon soda. White 
of egg used for frosting. Amy C. Farlin, '09. 

Chocolate Cake 

Cream together one scant square butter and one 
cup sugar; two eggs minus one white, one-half cup 
milk, one and one-half cups flour, one heaping tea- 
spoon Royal baking powder, one square Baker's choc- 
olate melted, vanilla if desired. 

Frosting. White of one egg and powdered sugar 
beaten together, one square chocolate melted, vanilla. 
Celia Tilton Donaldson, ex-'07. 

One Bgg Chocolate Cake 

One tablespoon butter, one cup sugar, yolk of one 
egg } one-half cup milk, three-fourths cup flour, two 

The Knox Acidulated package contains flavoring and coloring 



118 THE ETA COOtC HOOK 

squares Baker's chocolate melted, one teaspoon vanilla, 
one-half cup milk, three-fourths cup flour, one-half tea- 
spoon soda, one teaspoon cream of tartar, one-half 
teaspoon salt. Mix in order given. 

Frosting. One cup brown sugar, one-third cup 
water. Boil until it threads. Stir into beaten white 
of tgg. Add eight marshmallows when ready for 
cake. May Hobson Tewksbury, ex-'92. 

Chocolate Cake 

One and one-half cups sugar, one-half cup butter, 
one-half cup milk, three eggs (whites and 3^ oiks beaten 
separately), one and one-half cups flour, one-half tea- 
spoon soda dissolved in a little milk, one teaspoon 
cream of tartar, pinch of salt. Seven tablespoons or 
two squares Baker's chocolate, mixed with two table- 
spoons sugar, added to two tablespoons milk. Let 
come to a boil. Add this last. Add vanilla if desired. 
Marion S. Butterfield, '10. 



Chocolate Cake 

One-half cup butter, one and three-fourths cup sugar, 
three well beaten eggs, one and three-fourths cups flour, 
one-half cup milk, one and one-half teaspoons Royal 
baking powder, one teaspoon vanilla, three squares 
Baker's chocolate melted. Cream butter and sugar, 
add beaten eggs. Stir in dry ingredients and milk. 
Add melted chocolate and vanilla. Cook about forty- 
five minutes in oven not too hot. 

Sadie Caldwell King, ex-' 03. 

Knox Gelatine makes desserts, salads, candies, puddings, ices, etc. 



THE ETA COOK BOOK H9 

Devil Cake 

First mixture: One cup brown sugar, one-fourth 
cake Baker's chocolate, one-half cup milk. Let this 
boil, flavor with vanilla, and cool. Second mixture: 
One cup brown sugar, one-half cup butter, yolks of 
three eggs, one-half cup milk, two heaping cups flour, 
one teaspoon soda dissolved in a little hot water. 
Mix first and second mixtures and bake in three la}'ers. 

Icing. One cup granulated sugar, four tablespoons 
water. Boil until it spins a thread from spoon, then 
pour slowly into well beaten white of one egg and 
beat until cool. Eunice T. Thomas, '05. 

Devil's Pood 

Cream five level tablespoons butter and one and 
one-fourth cups sugar. Add three and one-half squares 
Baker's chocolate melted. Break in three unbeaten 
eggs, one teaspoon vanilla, three-fourths cup milk, 
three and one-half level teaspoons Royal baking 
powder, one and one-half cups sifted pastry flour. 
Add milk and flour alternately. Bake three-quarters 
of an hour. Edna Staples Mitchell, '09. 

Spanish Devil Cake 

Two cups brown sugar, one-half cup butter, two 
eggs, one-half cup sour milk, one and one-half tea- 
spoons soda, one-third cup Baker's cocoa dissolved 
in one-half cup boiling water, two cups flour, vanilla. 
Bake in two layers. 

Filling. Three-fourths cup confectioner's sugar, 
one-fourth cup Baker's cocoa. Mix with hot milk or 
water. Blanche Hartwell Barber, '94. 



Use Knox Gelatine if you would be sure of results 



120 THE ETA COOK BOOK 

Penuchi Cake 

Cream three-fourths cup butter, add slowly two 
cups fine granulated sugar. Sift two teaspoons Royal 
baking powder with three cups pastry flour, add one 
tablespoon of the prepared flour to the creamed butter 
and sugar, then add four eggs, one at a time, without 
first beating them. Add one tablespoon flour before 
breaking in each egg, and continue adding the flour 
alternately with one cup milk. Flavor with vanilla. 

Nut Filling. One cup sour cream, one and one-half 
cups sugar boiled fifteen minutes, add one cup chopped 
nut meats, one-half teaspoon vanilla and beat until 
thick enough to spread. Put between layers and on 
top. Ruth Haseltine '14. 

Coffee Cake 

One cup butter, one cup sugar, one cup molasses, 
one teaspoon soda, five cups flour, one cup strong 
coffee, one cup fruit (raisins, citron, ^currants), two 
teaspoons cloves. Bake one hour. 

Victoria M. H. Zeller, '08. 

Connecticut Loaf Cake 

Three cups flour, one and one-half cups sugar, one- 
half cup butter, one egg, one cup raisins, one cup milk, 
three teaspoons baking soda. Cream butter and sugar 
first and add eggs. Bake one hour in a slow oven. 

Helen Deering, '11. 

Sour Milk Cake 

One cup sugar, three-fourths cup lard and butter, 
one teaspoon each of cinnamon, cloves and nutmeg, 

Simply add water and sugar to the Knox Acidulated package 



THE ETA COOK BOOK 121 

one cup sour milk or cream with one teaspoon saler- 
atus, two and one-half cups flour, one cup or more 
chopped raisins. 

Nellie Henderson Wilson, ex-'OO. 

Sour Milk Cup Cakes 

One-half cup sour milk, salt, three-fourths cup gran- 
ulated sugar, one-half teaspoon in all of nutmeg, cin- 
namon and clove, one-half cup raisins cut in halves, 
one beaten egg. Melt one-third cup shortening (part 
lard and part butter), one-half teaspoon soda in a 
little hot water, one cup bread flour. Mix in order 
given. Mabelle Copp Nash, '00. 

Spice Cake 

One-half cup butter, one cup sugar, one cup sour 
milk, one teaspoon soda, one tablespoon molasses, two 
cups flour, one teaspoon mixed spices (clove, allspice 
and cinnamon), one cup raisins. Bake in moderate 
oven. Susie Sanborn Cowper, '90. 

Harrison Cake 

(Two Loaves) 

One and one-half cups butter beaten to a cream, 
two cups sugar, one cup molasses, four eggs, one cup 
sweet milk, five cups flour mixed and sifted with one 
teaspoon saleratus and two teaspoons cream of tartar, 
one teaspoon each of clove, cinnamon and mace, one 
pound each of currants and raisins, one-fourth pound 
citron. Bake slowly in a moderate oven for an hour 
or longer. Elizabeth R. Meredith, '07. 

For dainty delicious desserts use Knox Gelatine 



122 THE ETA COOK BOOK 

Date Cake 

One and one-third cups brown sugar, one-third cup 
butter, two eggs, one-half cup milk, one and one-half 
heaping cups flour, two teaspoons Royal baking- 
powder, one-half teaspoon cinnamon, one-half tea- 
spoon nutmeg, one-half pound chopped dates. Cream 
butter and sugar, add yolks of eggs and beat until 
creamy, then add one-half teaspoon of cinnamon and 
nutmeg. Add alternately the milk and flour with 
Royal baking pow T der, also chopped dates. Last add 
whites of eggs beaten very stiff. Bake in moderate 
oven one-half hour. Esther Hammond, '17. 

Fruit Cake (Uncooked) 

Chop fine one pound each of raisins, currants, dates, 
figs, citron and English walnuts. Mix with this one 
cup powdered sugar and press into mold. Wrapped 
in paraffin paper, this will keep a long time. 

Celia Tilton Donaldson, ex-'07. 

Nut Muffins 

Mix one and one-half cups bread flour, one table- 
spoon sugar, three teaspoons Royal baking powder, 
three-fourths teaspoon salt. Work in one scant table- 
spoon lard. Add three-fourths cup milk, one-fourth 
cup walnut meats cut in pieces. Bake in small gem 
pans in quick oven. Serve at five o'clock teas with 
orange marmalade. 

Maude Winchester Hullihen, '01. 

Nut Cake 

One cup sifted brown sugar, two eggs, one-half cup 

Pink coloring for fancy desserts in each package of Knox Gelatine 



THE ETA COOK BOOK 123 

pastry flour, one-third teaspoon Royal baking powder, 
one cup chopped nut meats, a little salt. This makes 
one dozen muffin-tin cakes. Sprinkle tops with pow- 
dered sugar. 

Cordelia Losey Baldwin, Alpha, ex-'94. 

Light Nut Cake 

Three eggs, one cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one- 
half cup milk, one and one-half cups flour, one tea- 
spoon cream of tartar and one-half teaspoon soda, 
one cup nut meats. 

Helen Meredith Crawford, '99. 

New York State Molasses Cake 

One egg, one-half cup butter, one-half cup sugar, 
one-half cup dark molasses, one-half cup cold black 
tea, one-half teaspoon soda dissolved in tea, salt and 
nutmeg. Add flour enough for a soft cake batter and 
bake in patty tins or one small shallow loaf in a mod- 
erate oven. Very nice for dessert served warm with 
butter or whipped cream. 

Cordelia Losey Baldwin, Alpha, ex-' 94. 

Gingerbread 

Four tablespoons butter, one-half cup sugar, one- 
half cup molasses, one egg, one-half cup milk, one 
tablespoon ginger, one teaspoon allspice, one teaspoon 
cinnamon, one-half teaspoon soda, one and one-half 
cups flour. Cream butter, add sugar gradually, add 
molasses. Beat the egg, add milk to it. Stir this into 
the butter and sugar. Sift flour, soda and spices to- 
gether. Add this gradually to the butter, stir and beat 

Try Knox Acidulated Gelatine with the lemon flavor enclosed 



124 THE ETA COOK BOOK 

well. Fill greased pans two-thirds full. Bake in mod- 
erate oven about twenty minutes in muffin pans. In 
a loaf bake about forty-five minutes. 

Abby Barstow Bates, '87. 

Gingerb read 

One-half cup sugar, one-half cup creamed butter, one 
egg, one-half cup molasses, one and one-half cups flour, 
one teaspoon ginger, one teaspoon cinnamon, one-half 
cup cold water with one teaspoon soda. Serve hot 
with whipped cream. Cora Kenty Travis, '01. 

Gingerbread 

One-half cup brown sugar, one-fourth cup butter, 
one-half teaspoon ginger, one-half teaspoon cinnamon, 
one-eighth teaspoon cloves, one-half cup molasses, one- 
half cup boiling water, in which dissolve one scant 
teaspoon soda, one and one-half cups flour, one well 
beaten egg. Charlessie McKinnon, '09. 

Soft Gingerbread 

One cup flour sifted with one scant teaspoon soda, 
one-fourth cup shortening, one-fourth cup molasses, 
one-half cup sugar, one-fourth teaspoon cinnamon, 
little salt, one egg, one-half cup boiling water added 
last. Sara M. Cole, ex-'14. 

Soft Sugar Gingerbread 

Two eggs, one cup sugar, one and three-fourths cups 
flour, three teaspoons Royal baking powder, one-half 
teaspoon salt, one and one-half teaspoons ginger, two- 



Knox Gelatine makes dainty desserts for dainty people 



THE ETA COOK BOOK 12 5 



thirds cup thin cream. Bake thirty minutes in mod- 
erate oven and serve hot with cream. 

Annie Caffin Swett, '08. 

Light Fruit Cake 

Two eggs, one and one-half cups sugar, one-half 
cup butter, one cup milk, two and three-fourths cups 
bread flour, one teaspoon cream of tartar, one-half 
teaspoon soda, one-third of a nutmeg, one cup cur- 
rants, one cup cut raisins, one-half cup citron. 

Esther Lydon, '16. 

Blueberry Cake 

One tablespoon butter, one small cup sugar, one 
egg, one cup milk, two cups flour, one teaspoon salt, 
one teaspoon cream of tartar, one teaspoon soda, 
one and one-half cups blueberries dredged with flour. 
Serve hot for tea or as luncheon dessert. 

Edith Cobb Myers, ex-'08. 

Blueberry Cake 

One cup sugar, one tablespoon butter, one egg, 
two-thirds cup sweet milk, one and one-half cups flour,' 
two-teaspoons Royal baking powder, one teaspoon cin- 
namon, one cup berries. 

Bertha Mansfield Freeman, '89. 

Jelly Roll 

One cup sugar, one and one-half teaspoons Royal 
baking powder, one cup flour, three eggs, six table- 
spoons hot water. Mix dry ingredients. Stir in beaten 



Knox Acidulated Gelatine saves the cost, time and bother of squeez- 
ing lemons 



126 THE ETA COOK BOOK 

eggs. Add hot water. Bake in slow oven in large pan 
having batter one-third inch thick. Turn on sheet of 
brown paper dusted with powdered sugar. Beat up 
a glass of jelly and spread on cake. Trim off crusty 
edges and roll up. Keep in a cloth until cool. Always 
a success. Constance Freethy Coan, '02. 

Rhubarb Tutti-Frutti Shortcake 

Chop fine one cup mixed dates and raisins stoned. 
Add to five cups rich, thick rhubarb sauce. Cook five 
minutes. Split a shortcake, made by any desired rule, 
and spread each layer with fruit. Put together and 
cover with whipped cream. 

Pearl M. Pettingill, '02. 

Filled Cake 

Cream together 3'olks of five eggs with three-fourths 
cup sugar. Beat well. Add one teaspoon vanilla, then 
three-fourths cup flour and one teaspoon Royal bak- 
ing powder, stir thoroughly and add the whites of five 
eggs beaten to stiff froth, bake in rather quick oven 
about fifteen minutes. Let cool and cut off top of cake, 
scoop out the centre. Make a filling of whipped cream 
and fruit; strawberries, raspberries and peaches are 
good. Mash the fruit and add sugar to taste, also 
the crumbs from the centre of cake. Add the cream 
to this and fill the cake, put on top and cover all with 
chocolate icing. 

Icing. Three tablespoons Baker's cocoa, three 
tablespoons hot water and enough powdered sugar 
to make a smooth icing. Spread over the entire cake. 
Jean Macauley Gerson, ex-'05. 

See that the name K-N-O-X is on each package of gelatine you buy 



THE ETA COOK BOOK 127 

Jam Cake 

One cup sugar, one and one-half cups flour, three- 
fourths cup butter, one cup jam, four eggs, one-half 
nutmeg, one teaspoon soda, three teaspoons sour milk, 
one teaspoon cloves, one teaspoon cinnamon. Make 
like any cake. Stir jam into batter. Bake in four 
layers. 

Filling. Two cups sugar, one-half cup water. Boil 
until a syrup and pour slowly on beaten whites of 
two eggs. Edith Fowler Chase, ex-'93. 

Apple Sauce Cake 

Cream together one cup sugar, one-half cup shorten- 
ing. Add one-half teaspoon salt, one-fourth teaspoon 
cloves and cinnamon, one cup raisins, little nutmeg. 
Dissolve one teaspoon soda in a little warm water 
and stir it into one cup sour apple sauce. Let it foam 
over the ingredients in the bowl. Beat thoroughly. 
Add one and three-fourths cups flour. Bake forty-five 
minutes. Mabel Fogg Ames, '95. 

Fruit Shortcake 

One-fourth cup butter, one- half cup sugar, one egg, 
one-fourth cup milk, one cup flour, two teaspoons 
Royal baking powder, one-fourth teaspoon salt. 
Spread fruit (orange or pineapple, or pineapple and 
banana in combination are good) cut in small pieces. 
Pineapple should be put through food chopper and 
allowed to stand sugared. Spread between layers and 
on top. Serve with whipped cream. 

Mabelle Copp Nash, '00. 

Knox Acidulated Gelatine— no bother-no trouble-no squeezing lemons 



128 THE ETA COOK BOOK 

Cream Pie Cake 
One tablespoon butter, one cup sugar, one egg, one 
cup milk, two cups flour, one teaspoon cream of tar- 
tar, one-half teaspoon soda, one teaspoon vanilla, 
salt. Bake in two round tins. When ready to serve 
put whipped cream between the la}rers and on top. 

Orpha Lee Potter, '04. 

Frosting 

One cup sugar, three tablespoons water. Boil un- 
til it hairs, then add yolk of egg beaten stiff and one- 
half teaspoon vanilla. Amy C. Farlin, '09. 

Mocha Frosting 

Two cups confectioner's sugar, two dessert spoons 
Baker's cocoa or melted chocolate, one tablespoon 
butter, one-half teaspoon vanilla. Add hot coifee until 
frosting is smooth. Edna Staples Mitchell, '09. 

Mocha Frosting- 
One cup pulverized sugar, into which sift two des- 
sert spoons dry Baker's cocoa, two tablespoons strong 
hot coffee in which is melted a piece of butter size of 
walnut. Beat well and flavor with a little vanilla. 
Frances P. Copeland, ex-'05. 

Chocolate Mocha Frosting 

One cup powdered sugar, two tablespoons hot 
coftee, two teaspoons Baker's cocoa, butter size of 
walnut, one teaspoon vanilla. 

Gertrude Gilman, '92. 

Where recipes call for gelatine use Knox Gelatine 



THE ETA COOK BOOK 129 

Walnut-Raisin Frosting- or Filling 

White of one egg beaten stiff. Add confectioner's 
sugar until of right consistency to spread. Add one 
cup walnut meats and raisins chopped fine. Use with 
plain cake. Grace Potter Belisle, ex-'99. 

Orange Filling 

Grate the outside of one orange and squeeze the 
juice. One cup sugar, two even tablespoons flour. 
Mix all together. Add one cup hot water. Set in a 
pan of hot water on the stove, and let it boil until 
the flour is cooked, stirring often. Then add one beaten 
egg. Let boil a few minutes longer. 

Jane Johonnet, '11. 

Chocolate Filling and Top for Cream Pie 

Scald one cup milk. Mix two-thirds cup sugar, 
one tablespoon Kingsford's cornstarch dissolved in a 
little milk, and two squares Baker's chocolate melted. 
Cook until thick. Vanilla. Alice C. Abbott, '98. 




Ic 



es 



" "^is passing good : 
O prithee let me have it. 



Cafe Mousse 

One pint cream sweetened with three tablespoons 
sugar, one-half teaspoon vanilla, one cup milk in which 
cook one heaping tablespoon coffee. Strain through a 
cloth and allow to cool. Dissolve one teaspoon Knox 
gelatine in one-fourth cup cold water, add one-fourth 
cup boiling water. When dissolved add to coffee. Mix 
with cream and whip until stiff. Pour into a covered 
mold, pack in ice and salt and let stand for three or 
four hours. Elizabeth R. Meredith, '07. 

Cafe Parfait 

Steep one-half cup coffee in one cup cold water and 
simmer until reduced one-half. Strain it over the yolks 
of two eggs beaten with one-half cup sugar. Cook in 
double boiler until thick and smooth. When cold fold 
in carefully one pint thick cream whipped stiff all 
through. Pack in the mold and let stand in ice and 
salt three hours. 

Mollie Kingsbury Howard, '05. 

Four pints of jelly in each package of Knox Gelatine 



THE E T A COOK BOO K 1 31 



"Gingerome" Mousse 

One-half pint heavy eream, one-fourth cup top milk, 
three tablespoons powdered sugar, whites of two eggs, 
one teaspoon vanilla. Beat the eggs until stiff. Add 
top milk to cream and beat until very thick, then add 
eggs, sugar and flavoring. Pack in ice and salt for 
three or four hours. Ro3 r al baking powder cans make 
excellent molds. Seal with strips of cloth dipped in 
melted lard. Serve with ginger sauce: One-half cup 
each of crystalized ginger cut very small, brown sugar, 
white sugar and water. Cook together until slightly 
syrupy. Serve warm. 

Clara Came Jerome, '99. 

Pineapple Mousse 

One-half can shredded pineapple, two lemons, two 
cups sugar, three cups boiling water, one-half pint 
cream, three tablespoons powdered sugar, one-half 
teaspoon vanilla. Boil sugar and water ten minutes, 
when cool add juice of lemons and pineapple. Put 
this in a two-quart melon mold and cover with 
whipped cream, sugar and vanilla. Pack in ice and 
salt four hours before serving. 

May Hobson Tewksbury, ex-'92. 

Manhattan Pudding 

One box strawberries, one half-pint jar cream, 
one-fourth cup sugar, one-half cup chopped walnuts. 
Crush and strain strawberries and place juice in mold. 
Whip cream, sweeten, add nuts, pour over strawberry 

Knox Gelatine is measured ready for use — each package is divided 
into two envelopes 



132 T H E E T A ( ' O K BOO K 



juice and pack in ice and salt (three parts ice to one 
part salt). Cut in slices to serve. 

Pauline Pattison, '17. 



Manhattan Pudding 

Mix juice of four oranges and two lemons and 
sweeten to taste. Add pinch of salt. Whip one and 
one-half cups heavy cream, add one and one-half cups 
chopped walnut meats. Sweeten and flavor to taste. 
Pack in salt and ice and let stand four hours. (Two 
parts ice to one part salt). 

Helen Meredith Crawford, '99. 

Nesnah Raspberry Ice Cream 

Two pints sweet milk, one pint sweet cream, two 
packages raspberry Nesnah. Pour all the milk into a 
sauce pan and warm to just lukewarm. Then add all 
the Nesnah powder at one time and stir in quickly 
about one-half minute. Pour at once into freezer can 
and let stand undisturbed for ten minutes. Then pro- 
ceed to pack with ice and salt and freeze in the usual 
way. 

The Basy Way to Make Ice Cream 

Use one quart milk for a package of Jell-0 ice cream 
powder. Pour the contents of a package of Jell-0 ice 
cream powder in a dish. Pour on it one cup of milk 
and stir to a thick, smooth paste, to avoid lumps. 
Add the rest of the quart of milk, stir until thoroughly 
dissolved and freeze. 

Knox Gelatine solves the problem of "What to have for dessert?" 



THE ETA COOK BOOK I33 

Strawberry Ice Cream 
One quart milk, three eggs, two and one-half cups 
sugar, two boxes strawberries, one pint heavy cream. 
Mash strawberries with one cup sugar. Heat rest of 
sugar with eggs and milk. 

Edith Lynch Bolster, '90. 

Fruit Sherbet 

(Economical) 

One-half envelope Knox sparkling gelatine, one 
orange, one and one-half cups sugar, one lemon, three 
cups rich milk. Grate the outside of both orange and 
lemon. Squeeze out all the juice, add to this the sugar. 
When ready to freeze, stir in the milk slowly to pre- 
vent curdling. Take part of a cup of milk, add the 
gelatine. After standing five minutes, place in a pan 
of hot water until dissolved, then stir into the rest of 
the milk and fruit juice. Freeze. This makes a large 
allowance for five persons. 

Fruit Sherbet 

One orange, one lemon, one banana, one cup sugar, 
one cup water. Use juice of orange and lemon, mash 
banana fine, add other ingredients and freeze. Enough 
for four generous servings. 

Eloise H. Crocker, '97. 

Milk Sherbet 

Juice of four lemons, one pint sugar, one tablespoon 
Knox minute gelatine dissolved in a little boiling- 
water, one quart milk. Pour milk slowly on other 

Knox Gelatine is economical — Four Pints in each package 



134 T H E E T A C O O K B O O K 



ingredients. If milk curdles it will smooth out in 
freezing. Freeze like ice cream. 

Blanche Hartwell Barber, '94. 

Lemon Delight 
Dissolve one and one-half cups sugar in three cups 
milk. Place in freezer and let stand in ice and salt 
(two parts ice to one part salt) for two hours. Then 
stir in the juice of three lemons and the stiff beaten 
white of one egg. Repack and let stand another hour. 

Lillian C. Rogers, '87. 

Lemon Sherbet 
One quart ice cold milk, two cups sugar, the juice 
of three lemons. Stir the sugar and juice together, 
then pour in the milk and freeze immediately. 

Esther M. Nazarian, '17. 

Peach Sherbet with Milk 

Two cups milk, one pint jar preserved peaches, 
juice of one lemon, one cup sugar. Strain peaches, 
crushing fruit through coarse sieve. Add lemon juice 
and sugar, stirring until dissolved. Add milk slowly 
while stirring. Freeze. Better than ice cream on a hot 
day. Grace Potter Belisle, ex-'99. 

Frozen Peaches 

Dissolve two cups granulated sugar in the juice from 
one can of peaches. Mash the peaches fine, place in 
freezer, add the juice, and finally the well beaten whites 
of three eggs. Freeze as usual. This will serve ten 
persons. Florence A. Runnells, ex-'06. 

Try the Knox Gelatine recipes found in this book 



r H K E T A C OK BOO K 135 

Nut Frappe 

One-half envelope Knox sparkling gelatine, one- 
fourth cup cold water, one-half cup sugar, one cup 
pineapple and strawberries, one pint cream, white of 
one egg, one cup chopped nuts. Soak gelatine in the 
cold water five minutes and dissolve over hot water. 
Add dissolved gelatine to cream and sugar and stir in 
beaten white of egg. When cold, add the pineapple 
and strawberries which have been chopped in small 
pieces ; also, the chopped nuts. Serve ice cold in sher- 
bet glasses. 

Pineapple Frappe 

Boil together for twenty minutes one pint sugar 
and one pint water. Add the grated pulp and juice 
of a sweet pineapple or one small can of grated pine- 
apple. Let the mixture boil two minutes longer. Add 
the juice of two lemons. Add the beaten whites of two 
eggs and freeze the mixture until it is thick or half 
frozen. Helen G. Durgin, '13. 




Confections 



' ' Jl little taffy now and then 
Is relished by the best of men. 



Chocolate Caramels 
One- third cup butter, one cup sugar, one-half cup 
Baker's cocoa, one cup molasses, one cup milk, two 
teaspoons vanilla. Cream in the order given, like cake. 
Boil about one-half hour until when dropped in water 
it will bite like cheese. Do not have it brittle. If you 
cover the bottom of the buttered tin with halves of 
English walnuts, it will make delicious caramels. Cut 
into squares when cool enough and if wrapped in 
paraffin paper it will last indefinitely. 

Cora Stanwood Cobb, '91. 

Chocolate Caramels 
Two cups sugar, two tablespoons Baker's cocoa or 
one-fourth square Baker's chocolate unsweetened, one- 
half cup molasses, one-half cup milk. Mix together 
and cook without stirring until it forms soft ball in 
cold water. While boiling add butter size of walnut. 
Vanilla. Pour into buttered pan to cool and mark in 
squares. Do not stir. Marion Benton, '12. 

Desserts can be made in a short time with Knox Gelatine 



THE ETA COO K II O O K 137 

Chocolate Caramels 

One cup sugar, one-fourth cup butter, one-third cup 
Karo, one square Baker's chocolate, one-third cup milk, 
paraffin size of one-half a nutmeg. Boil until a little will 
harden in cold water or roll between the fingers. Stir fre- 
quently to prevent burning. Remove from fire, add 
one teaspoon vanilla and pour quickly into a buttered 
tin covered with chopped nuts. 

Gertrude Gilman, '92. 

Caramels 

Three cups sugar, one pound glucose, one-half pint 
cream to which enough milk is added to make a quart, 
one can Rose brand condensed milk, two tablespoons 
vanilla. Cook until it forms a soft ball in cold water. 
To make chocolate caramels add three squares Bak- 
er's chocolate to one-half the mixture. 

Maria Grey Kimball, '02. 

Fudge 

Three cups sugar (one-half powdered, one-half gran- 
ulated), three squares Baker's chocolate, one cup milk, 
large piece butter, little salt. After taking from stove 
add one teaspoon vanilla. Beat well, pour in greased 
pan and let cool and harden. 

Esther Hammond, '13. 

Chocolate Fudge 

Cook two squares Baker's chocolate in two-thirds 
cup milk until smooth. Add two cups white sugar 
(or one-half cup may be brown), a small pinch cream 

Use Knox Gelatine — the two-quart package 



1 38 T ff K I- T -» C O O K B O O K 

of tartar and one-half teaspoon salt. Cook until it 
forms a soft ball when tested. Remove from fire and 
add butter size of a walnut and one teaspoon vanilla. 
Beat until it begins to thicken. Pour into a buttered 
pan and score before it hardens. 

Annie B. C. Fisher, '88. 

Creamy Fudge 

Two cups sugar, one-third cup flour, two-thirds 
cup milk or cream, two squares Baker's chocolate 
grated, butter size of an egg added at the end of six 
minutes' boiling. The candy should then be ready for 
a severe beating and a flavoring of vanilla. Cut in 
squares when cold. Anne G. Towle, '00. 

Peanut-butter Fudge 

Two cups sugar, three-fourths cup milk, little salt, 
three or four tablespoons peanut butter. Boil milk 
and sugar until the_v form a soft ball in cold water, 
remove from the fire and beat in the peanut butter. 
Set in pans to cool. Mabel Whitaker, '14. 

Genesee Chocolates 

One and one-half cups granulated sugar, one-half 
cup milk, two squares Baker's chocolate, butter size 
of an egg. Boil five minutes. Take from stove and 
stir mixture, setting in pan of ice water. Add one 
cup confectioner's sugar. When stiff enough, make 
into balls and put on oiled paper. Melt six squares 
chocolate and dip balls in it. 

Maria Grey Kimball, '02. 

Knox Gelatine makes a transparent, tender, quivering jelly 



THE ETA COOK BOOK 139 

Chocolate Taffy 

One pound brown sugar, one-half cup milk, one- 
half cup molasses, one-half cup butter, three squares 
Baker's chocolate, one teaspoon vanilla. Boil first 
four ingredients until about half done then add the 
chocolate cut in small pieces. Boil until it hardens 
when dropped into cold water or to 254°. Stir as 
little as possible while boiling. 

May Hobson Tewksbury, ex-' 92. 

Penuchie 

Three cups brown sugar, one-half cup eream}^ milk. 
Boil about three minutes, or until it balls in cold 
water. One cup walnuts, vanilla and butter to flavor. 

Charlessie McKinnon, '09. 

Delicious Candy 

One cup white sugar, one cup light brown sugar, 
one cup water, walnut of butter. Allow to boil until 
it will harden in water. Remove from fire, add vanilla 
flavoring and, if desired, chopped walnut meats. Beat 
until very stiff and allow to cool. 

Ilga Herrick, '12. 

Divinity Creams 
Two and one-half cups granulated sugar, one-half 
cup Karo corn syrup, one-half cup hot water, whites 
of two eggs, one-half cup nuts, flavoring. Boil sugar, 
syrup and water until it forms a soft ball in water. 
Add slowly one cup of this mixture to whites of eggs 
which have been beaten stiff, with a tiny bit of salt. 
Continue to cook remainder of syrup until it crackles 

Knox Gelatine is the one dessert for all appetites 



140 THE ETA COO K U () <> K 

in cold water. Pour syrup over the egg mixture and 
beat until cold. Acid nuts and flavoring. Pour into 
shallow pan. When cold cut in oblongs. 

Geraldine Mitchell Thompson, '04. 

Divinity Candy 

First mixture: Boil one cup sugar and one-fourth 
cup water four minutes. Second mixture: Boil until 
brittle three cups sugar, one cup Karo corn syrup, 
one cup water. To the first mixture add the beaten 
whites of three eggs. Add this to second mixture, 
then add one cup chopped walnuts and one teaspoon 
vanilla. Beat until like fudge. 

Celia McLennan, '17. 

Divinity Fudge 

Two cups granulated sugar, one-half cup cold water, 
one-third cup Karo syrup. Cook until it hardens when 
dropped in cold water. Take from stove, pour over 
stiffly beaten white of one egg. Add nuts and vanilla. 
Beat until stiff. Marion S. Bftterfield, '10. 

Divinity Pudge 

One and one-half cups granulated sugar, one-half 
cup Karo corn syrup, one-fourth cup water, white of 
one egg, one-half cup nuts, one-fourth teaspoon vanilla, 
Boil sugar, syrup and water to soft ball stage. Take 
out one cup and fold into stiffly beaten white of egg. 
Add vanilla and nuts. Allow rest of syrup to reach 
crack stage and stir that into egg mixture. Put in 
pan or allow to cool until it will stand alone, then 
drop by spoonfuls on buttered paper. Chocolate 

Give the growing: children Knox Gelatine 



T H E E T A COOK BOOK \±\ 



' 'divinity" may be made by adding a square of Baker's 
chocolate grated to syrup before boiling. 

Anna Wood Richie, ex-'98. 

Maple Creams 
One jar maple cream. Remove the cream from jar 
and expose to air long enough to be easily handled. 
Insert a little ball of the cream between two walnut 
or pecan meats and set aside to dry. 

Annie B. C. Fisher, '88. 

Fig- Paste 

Dissolve three level tablespoons granulated Knox 
gelatine in one-half cup cold water. When this is dis- 
solved, add to it, two cups sugar, one-half cup cold 
water and one-half pound layer figs chopped very fine. 
Boil the mixture for twenty minutes. Remove from the 
fire and add two tablespoons lemon juice and stir it in 
well. Pour mixture into a pan wet with cold water. 
Let stand over night. The next day, dip a silver knife 
in powdered sugar and cut paste into squares and roll 
each square in powdered sugar. 

Carolyn Strong Newell, '90. 

Candied Orange Peel 

Let the quartered peel soak in a weak brine of two 
tablespoons salt to one quart water, for about a 
week. Boil peels in cold water, changing the water 
three times, until soft enough to pierce with a straw. 
Drain thoroughly and cut into fine strips. Make a 
syrup of one pound of sugar to every pound of fruit 
and just enough water to cover the peels. Let all 

Knox Gelatine is clear and sparkling 



142 THE ETA COOK BOOK 



boil together until the peels have absorbed nearly all 
of the syrup, careful not to scorch at the last. Roll 
in powdered sugar. After drying in the sun put away 
in glass jars. Do not let it dry too long, as it hardens 
by keeping, anyway. 

Helena M. Bullock, Alpha, ex-'98. 

French Dainties 

Two envelopes Knox acidulated gelatine, four cups 
granulated sugar, one and one-half cups boiling water, 
one cup cold water. Soak the gelatine in the cold 
water five minutes. Add the boiling water. When 
dissolved add the sugar and boil slowly for fifteen 
minutes. Divide into two equal parts. When some- 
what cooled add to one part one-half teaspoon of the 
lemon flavor found in separate envelope dissolved in 
one tablespoon water and one tablespoon lemon ex- 
tract. To the other part add one tablespoon brandy, 
if desired, one-half teaspoon extract of cloves and color 
with the pink color. Pour into shallow tins that have 
been dipped in cold water. Let stand overnight: cut 
into squares. Roll in fine granulated or powdered 
sugar and let stand to crystallize. Vary by using 
different flavorings and colorings. 



(A 



Chafing ^Dish Recipes 



' ' Such stuff as dreams are made of. ' ' 



Devil 

Melt one-half pound cheese, add contents of one can 
of Campbell's tomato soup, heated. Serve on toast or 
crackers. Grace C. Parker, '12. 

Lobster or Shrimp Newburg 

One-half pint cream, one egg, large piece butter, 
three cups lobster or three cans shrimps, four table- 
spoons sherry, one tablespoon brandy, one teaspoon 
sugar. Melt butter and add cream, then sherry and 
stir until it thickens. Add beaten egg and lobster. 
Serve on toast. Bertha Crocker Merrill, '97. 

Lobster, a la Newburg 

One large lobster, one tablespoon butter, one gill 
wine, three eggs, one pint cream. Cut lobster in small 
pieces, put in chafing dish or double boiler with butter, 
season well with pepper and salt, pour wine over it. 
Cook ten minutes. Add beaten yolks of eggs and 
cream, let all come to a boil and serve immediately. 

Gladys Damon, '14. 

A Knox Gelatine dessert or salad is attractive and appetizing 



144 THE ETA COOK BOOK 

Shrimps 

One-half pint fresh or canned shrimps, one table- 
spoon tomato ketchup, two tablespoons butter, one- 
half cup boiled rice, one-half grated onion, gill of 
cream. Put butter into chafing dish or double boiler. 
When hot stir in the onion and rice, add cream, 
shrimp and tomato sauce. Stir until it boils, then let 
it simmer five minutes. Gladys Damon, '14. 

Shrimp Wiggle 

Two tablespoons butter, four tablespoons flour, 
one-half cup cream, two cups milk, one can French 
peas, one can shrimp, dash of cayenne, dash of salt. 
Put butter in chafing dish, when melted add flour 
slowly. When all the flour is used up add milk and 
cream. When thoroughly heated, add other ingred- 
ients. Serve on toast or any nice crisp biscuit. 

Esther Lydon, '16. 

Bnglish Monkey 

One and one-half cups milk, one cup bread crumbs, 
butter size of a walnut, one cup cheese, one egg. Soak 
bread crumbs and milk fifteen minutes. Add beaten 
Qgg. Put cheese in blazer. When hot add eggs and 
bread mixture, salt and pepper to taste. 

Lillian Eldridge Burr, '08. 

Venetian Bggs 

Fry in chafing dish one tablespoon minced onion 
in one tablespoon butter. Add one cup strained to- 
mato, with a little sugar and salt, three tablespoons 

Ask your grocer for Knox Gelatine — take no other 



THE ETA COOK BOOK 145 

cheese cut fine, and three beaten eggs. Serve on 
crackers. Pearl M. Pettingill, '02. 

Kendall's Rarebit 

One tablespoon flour, one heaping tablespoon but- 
ter. Melt the butter in chafing dish and add the flour. 
One-half teaspoon mustard, one-fourth teaspoon salt, 
few grains of paprika, one cup milk. When milk boils 
add one cup cheese and when cheese is melted add 
beaten yolks of two eggs and just before serving the 
beaten whites. Mollie Kingsbury Howard, '05. 

Welsh Rarebit 

One tablespoon butter, three-fourths pound cheese, 
one-half teaspoon salt, a pinch of cayenne, one cup 
milk, one beaten egg. Melt the butter in a spider. 
After cheese has been melted and becomes smooth, 
add the milk and egg. A teaspoon of Worcestershire 
sauce adds greatly to the rarebit. 

Avis Sherburne, '14. 

Welsh Rarebit 

Put in a chafing dish one pound finely shaved cheese, 
a pinch of cayenne pepper. Add one cup milk, scalded 
to hasten the cooking, a slightly rounded teaspoon 
mustard mixed smooth in two or three teaspoons 
milk. Stir constantly until the cheese is melted. Add 
one egg slightly beaten and cook a few minutes until 
smooth. Serve on buttered toasted bread or zeph- 
yrettes. Amy Bridges Rice, '86. 

Knox Gelatine improves soups and gravies 
10 



146 



THE ETA COOK BOOK 



Sandwiches 

Thin slices of graham bread (entire wheat pre- 
ferred). Butter and spread with mixture of marsh- 
mallow cream and finely chopped walnuts. 

Ethel Flewelling Chandler, '04. 

Pimento and Cheese Sandwiches 

Chop one can pimentos and one-half pound mild 
cheese. Add one-half onion chopped very fine. Mix 
with mayonnaise and spread between thin slices of 
white bread. Susan Meredith Smith, '04. 




'Preserves and 'Pickles 



'Pickles and spice and everything nice. 



Amber Marmalade 

One orange, one lemon, one grapefruit. Wash 
thoroughly. Reject seeds and membranes. Put skins 
through meat-chopper — large knife. Now add three 
cups of water to each cup of fruit and juice and let 
stand over night. Next morning boil gently ten to 
fifteen minutes. Stand a second night. In the morn- 
ing add cup for cup of sugar. Boil gently until it 
thickens. I usually boil it an hour or more, then cool 
a bit to see if it has jellied sufficiently. The longer it 
is boiled the darker it will be however. 

Mabel Fogg Ames, '95. 

Orange Marmalade 

Cut in slivers one orange, one grape fruit and one 
lemon, taking out all seeds. Measure fruit and add 
three times the amount of water. Let stand over 
night in an earthen bowl. The next morning boil for 
ten minutes. Let it stand another night. The next 
morning add pint for pint of sugar and boil rapidly 
until it jellies. Lillian C. Rogers, '87. 

Send for free sample of Knox Gelatine 



148 THE E T A C OOK BOOK 

Orange Marmalade 
Slice thin six oranges (navels) and two lemons, add 
twenty-two cups cold water, let stand twenty-four 
hours, place on stove and allow to come to a boil 
slowly. Boil two hours, add eight pounds granulated 
sugar, boil one hour. Carrie M. Searle, '00. 

Marmalade Citrons 

First day. Slice (including rind) as thin as a silver 
dollar, six oranges, three grape fruit, one lemon. To 
each pound of fruit add three pints water and let 
stand twenty-four hours. 

Second day. Boil forty-five minutes and let stand 
twenty-four hours. 

Third day. To each pound of fruit and juice add 
the juice of one lemon, boil one-half hour. Take one 
and one-half pounds sugar for each pound of fruit and 
juice and have heating during the half hour of boiling, 
and at end of half hour add and boil from twenty to 
forty minutes, or until it jellies. This will make from 
forty to fifty glasses. Viola Brainard Baird, '03. 

Marmalade 

Six pounds rhubarb, one pound figs, five pounds 
brown sugar, two or three lemons. Cut rhubarb, not 
peeled, in one-inch pieces. Add sugar over night. Add 
chopped figs. Cook one or two hours like marmalade. 
Slice lemons. Frances P. Copeland, ex-'05. 

Grape Catsup 

Five pounds grapes. Boil and strain. Two pounds 
brown sugar, one quart vinegar, one dessertspoon 

Send for the Knox Gelatine recipe book 



THE ETA COOK BOOK 1 4,9 

cloves, allspice, cinnamon, pepper, salt. Boil one-half 
hour. Edith Lynch Bolster, '90. 

Tomato Ketchup 

One quart can tomatoes, five tablespoons vinegar, 
one-half tablespoon salt, one pinch cayenne pepper, 
one teaspoon mustard, one-half teaspoon clove, one- 
half teaspoon allspice, one-eighth teaspoon pepper, one 
small onion. Boil one hour and strain. 

Alice B. Lee, '04. 

Currant Conserve 

Five pounds currants, five pounds sugar, one and 
one-half pounds chopped seeded raisins, six medium 
sized oranges, peel and all, cut in small pieces. Cook 
twenty minutes after coming to a boil. 

Ida M. Sawyer, '98. 

Plum Conserve 

Four pounds blue plums, four pounds sugar, four 
oranges, one and one-half pounds raisins. Cook one 
to one and one-half hours. Cut both plums and 
oranges in small pieces removing stones and seeds. 

Elsie Hobson, '96. 

Rhubarb Conserve 

Five pounds sugar, five pounds rhubarb. Let stand 
over night. Add one-half pound preserved ginger and 
cook slowly on back of stove for four or five hours. 
Put in jelly glasses and seal. 

Emily Tay Lawrence, ex-'06. 

Knox Gelatine comes in two packages — Plain and Acidulated 
(lemon flavor) 



150 THE ETA COOK BOOK 

Peach or Apple Chutney 

(East Indian Recipe) 

Two pounds dried peaches or dried apples, one pound 
dried apricots, two pounds seeded raisins, two pounds 
granulated sugar, one-half pint vinegar, one-half ounce 
salt, one tablespoon each of ground cloves and cinna- 
mon, one-half tablespoon allspice, one ounce cayenne pep- 
per, two ounces garlic (if desired) cut fine. Stew dried 
fruit until tender. Add raisins whole and all other in- 
gredients except vinegar. Boil until raisins are soft, 
then add one-half the vinegar, stirring well. Add 
sugar to taste. Then add rest of the vinegar, if needed 
to make the same sour enough. 

Geraldine M. Thompson, '04. 



Chutney Sauce 

Boil one quart vinegar, two tablespoons mustard 
seed, two tablespoons powdered ginger, two table- 
spoons salt, two cups brown sugar. Chop one cup 
raisins, two green peppers (remove seeds), two onions. 
Cook slowly for two hours. Then add fifteen sour 
apples cut in quarters. Cook until soft. 

Blanche Hosmer Kimball, '96. 



Canned Sweet Corn 

Eleven cups corn cut from cob, one-half cup salt, 
two cups hot water. Boil ten minutes. Fill jars and 
seal as usual. Freshen in cold water two hours when 
opening cans. Blanche Hosmer Kimball, '96. 

Knox Gelatine is guaranteed to please or money back 



THE ETA COOK BOOK 151 

Chipped Pear 

Eight pounds pears cut fine, four pounds sugar, 
four lemons, one-fourth pound Canton ginger. 

Elsie Hobson, '96. 

Sweet Pickled Pear 

Seven pounds pears, three pounds sugar, one pint 
vinegar, one tablespoon cloves, one tablespoon allspice. 
Boil pears until soft. Drain off water. Dissolve sugar 
in vinegar. Tie spices in thin cloth, leaving room to 
swell. Boil all together about one-half hour. 

Grace Hayden Franklin, '07. 

Rhubarb and Orange Jam 
Four pounds rhubarb cut into inch lengths, four 
pounds sugar, four oranges and juice of one lemon. 
Slice the oranges very thin and cook in a little water. 
Add the rhubarb and cook until tender. Finally add 
sugar and lemon and cook until thick. 

Florence Wheeler Atwood, '02. 

Bar le Due Jelly 

One cup currants, three-fourths cup sugar (heat 
sugar in pan). Put currants in kettle and not quite 
cover them with boiling water. Cook gently five 
minutes. Strain in colander. Boil juice fifteen to 
twenty minutes, add sugar and boil ten minutes, then 
add currants and put into glasses. 

Emma Mason Chandler '00. 

Spiced Crabapple Jelly 

Wash and remove stems and blossom ends from 
one peck crabapples. Put in a preserving kettle and 

The Knox Acidulated package contains flavoring and coloring 



152 THE ETA COOK BOOK 

add one-fourth pound package mixed whole spices, five 
cups vinegar and enough cold water to come nearly 
to the top of apples. Cook slowly until apples are 
soft, then mash and strain through a course sieve. 
Put this mixture into a jelly-bag and allow to drip. 
Boil juice twent3^ minutes and then add an equal 
quantity of heated sugar. Boil fifteen minutes or un- 
til of proper consistenc3 T for a firm jelly. 

Carolyn Strong Newell, '90. 

Spiced Crabapple Jelly 

One peck crabapples, five cups vinegar, seven cups 
water. Boil until soft. Drip and measure. Boil juice 
twenty minutes with bag of whole spices. Add equal 
amount of sugar and boil five minutes. 

Bertha Crocker Merrill, '97. 

Apple, Quince, Peach and Plum Butter 

One pound fruit, one-half pound sugar, one-fourth 
pound Karo (crystal white). Cover fruit with water 
and cook until soft, or from three-fourths to one hour. 
Rub through a coarse strainer. Add sugar and Karo 
and cook until thick, adding spices to taste. 

Spiced Grapes 

Seven pounds fruit, one cup vinegar, three pounds 
sugar, one pound Karo (crystal white), three ounces 
cinnamon and cloves (tied in bag). Wash fruit and 
remove skins. Cook pulp until seeds may be removed 
by pressing through strainer. Put all together, in- 
cluding skins, and cook until thick. 

Knox Gelatine makes desserts, salads, candies, puddings, ices, etc. 



THE ETA COOK BOOK 153 

Mustard Chow-Chow 

Chop small cauliflower. Scald for five minutes. 
Chop one pint onions, three green peppers, two 
quarts, green tomatoes. Make a brine of two quarts 
hot water and one cup salt and pour over the chopped 
vegetables. Let mixture stand over night. In the 
morning scald well and drain. Mix with a little vin- 
egar the following: Three tablespoons mustard, one- 
half cup flour, one cup brown sugar, one-half teaspoon 
tumeric. Add to this mixture one quart boiling vin- 
egar. Pour over vegetables and cook until tender. 
This recipe makes a most excellent relish. 

Mabel Fogg Ames, '95. 



Mustard Pickle 

One quart small white onions, one quart green 
tomatoes cut in pieces, one quart string beans, one 
quart small cucumbers, one quart cabbage, one 
cauliflower, two green peppers, one cup mustard, one 
cup brown sugar, one cup flour, one gallon vinegar, 
one bunch celery, one ounce tumeric. Cut up in small 
pieces the cauliflower, onions, tomatoes and beans. 
Put them in salt and water over night. Rub the flour 
smooth with vinegar. Take half the vinegar and stir 
in flour. Boil until it thickens. Then add mustard, 
tumeric and sugar. Boil all pickles, except peppers, 
celery, cabbage and cucumber in rest of vinegar until 
cauliflower is tender, then stir all together and boil 
few minutes and bottle. 

Blanche Hartwell Barber, '94. 

Use Knox Gelatine if you would be sure of results 



154 THE ETA COOK BOOK 

Chili Sauce 

Twelve large ripe tomatoes, two large onions, four 
green peppers, three large tablespoons brown sugar, 
three cups vinegar, two teaspoons each of mustard 
seed, celery seed, cloves, cinnamon and salt. Skin the 
tomatoes by pouring boiling water on them and cut 
into quarters, cut up the onions and peppers fine, add 
the vinegar, sugar and salt. Tie the other spices in a 
piece of cheese cloth. Put all on to boil, stirring fre- 
quently to prevent burning. Cook until thick. 

Jean Macauley Gerson, ex-'05. 

French Pickle 

One peck green tomatoes, six onions, four peppers, 
two quarts vinegar, one teaspoon cinnamon, one tea- 
spoon cloves, one teaspoon allspice, one teaspoon 
ginger, two tablespoons mustard seed. Slice tomato 
and onion, sprinkle with one cup salt and let stand 
over night. Drain salt and water off and scald in 
liquor to cover, one-third vinegar and two-thirds 
water. Drain and cook in two quarts vinegar and 
two pounds brown sugar. Add chopped peppers, re- 
moving seeds of all except one. Add spices. This will 
keep in stone jar. Lena Glover, '97. 

Helen Glover, '13. 



e? 



{Beverages 



'Pledge me a toast before We part. 



Grape Juice 

Cover grapes with cold water. Cook thoroughly. 
Squeeze through jelly bag. Five cups juice, one cup 
sugar. Boil twenty minutes. Bottle while hot. 

Edith Lynch Bolster, '90. 

Grape Juice 

To eight quarts of grapes, picked off stem and 
washed, add three quarts water. Boil hard five min- 
utes. Strain through a jelly bag. To two quarts of 
this juice add two cups sugar. Boil hard five minutes 
and put in bottles or preserve jars 

Helen L. Lacount, '08. 

Grape Juice 

To every three quarts of grapes, after picking from 
the stem, add two quarts water. Boil and strain 
through cloth bag. After straining the first time 
strain twice more through a double bag of old linen or 
cheese cloth. Measure juice and to every six quarts 
add one and one-half quarts sugar. Bring to a boil 
and bottle hot. Seal. Ruth Wood Hoag, '99. 

Simply add water and sugar to the Knox Acidulated package 



156 THE ETA COOK BOOK 

Strawberry Cocktail 

Mash one quart berries. Add the juice one lemon 
and one orange, one cup sugar and four cups water. 
Strain through a jelly bag. Put on ice until very cold. 
Serve in tall glasses with three berries sliced in each 
glass. A little shaved ice ma}' be added. 

Pearl M. Pettingill, '02. 

Fruit Cocktail 

Shred and mix together two grape fruit and one 
orange. Pour over this two tablespoons lemon juice 
and a syrup made by boiling for ten minutes one cup 
sugar with one-half cup water. Chill and serve in 
cold glasses. Place on top of each glass candied cher- 
ries, a wedge or two of pineapple and sprinkle over 
all fresh mint cut fine. Grace F. Seabury, '96. 

Dandelion Wine 

Three quarts yellow blossoms packed hard, three 
quarts boiling water. Let stand in stone jar over 
night. Strain and squeeze. Add three pounds gran- 
ulated sugar, juice two lemons and two oranges, one 
yeast cake. Let stand two weeks in uncovered jug. 
Bottle with two raisins in each bottle. 

Bertha Crocker Merrill, '97. 

Iced Tea 

Three tablespoons of tea in one quart cold water. 
Soak over night. Next day add juice of four lemons, 
one and one-half cups sugar. Strain through cheese 
cloth. Dilute to taste. 

Bertha Mansfield Freeman, '89. 

For dainty delicious desserts use Knox Gelatine 



THE ETA COOK BOOK 



157 



Milk Shake 

Four squares or eight tablespoons Baker's choco- 
late shaved, two cups hot water. Simmer until dis- 
solved. Four cups sugar added and allowed to boil 
up. When cool add two tablespoons vanilla. Take 
two tablespoons of this mixture to a glass of milk, 
add a few small chunks of ice and shake in a pint jar 



until frothy. 



Alice Bid well Lee, '04. 






INDEX 




A 




Beverages 








Dandelion Wine 


156 


Amber Marmalade 


147 


Fruit Cocktail 


156 


An Easy Cake 


110 


Grape Juice 


155 


Apple 




Iced Tea 


157 


and Date Salad 


54 


Milk Shake 


157 


Sauce Cake 


127 


Strawberry Cocktail 


156 


Apples, Dainty Baked 


90 


Birthday Cake 


112 


Apricot Whip 


84 


Biscuit 




Asparagus Soup 


30 


Baking Powder 


26 






Bran 


26 


B 




Dough 


25 






Pin W 7 heel 


26 


Bacon, Baked Beef and 


37 


Shredded Wheat for Breakfast 22 


Baked 




Shredded Wheat with Straw- 


Bananas 


65 


berries 


29 


Brown Bread 


18 


Sweet Bread 


26 


Beef and Bacon 


37 


Blueberry Cake 


125 


Chops 


42 


Bread 




Halibut 


33 


Bran Bread 


18 


Ham 


42, 43 


Brown Bread 


17, 18 


Salmon 


35 


Baked 


17 


Smoked Ham 


43 


Boston 


18 


Stuffed Peppers 


61 


Unusual 


17 


Baking Powder Biscuits 


26 


Graham 


19 


Balls, Meat 


45 


Nut Bread 


20, 21 


Baptist Doughnuts 


95 


Dark 


20 


Bar-le-Duc Jelly 


151 


English 


21 


Baskets, Chantilly 


71 


Graham 


21 


Bavarian Cream 


71 


Light 


20 


Beef 




Oatmeal 


19, 20 


a la Mode 


38 


Third 


18 


and Bacon 


37 


Wellesley 


22 


Braised 


39 


Whole Wheat 


22 


en Casserole 


37 


Breakfast Muffins 


24 


Loaf 


38 


Brownies 


96 


Hamburg Loaf 


38 


Buns 


28 


Swedish Loaf 


38 


Butter, Apple, Quince, Peach 


Savory 


41 


and Plum 


152 


Spanish 


42 


Butter Thin Nutlets 


105 


and Spaghetti 


47 






Beefsteak 




c 




Cream Gravy for 


40 






Porterhouse Steak 


40 


Cabbage and Spare Ribs 


44 



' 


THE ETA COOK BOOK 


159 


Cafe Mousse 






130 


Cakes 




Cafe Parfait 






130 


New York State Fried 


96 


Cake 








Sour Milk Cup 


121 


An Easy- 






110 


California Rocks 


101 


Apple Sauce 






127 


Candy 




Birthday 






112 


Delicious 


139 


Blueberry 






125 


Divinity 


140 


Brown-Stone-Front 




115 


Candied 




Caramel 




115, 


116 


Orange Peel 


141 


Chocolate 


116, 


117, 


118 


Sweet Potatoes 


65 


Cocoa 






116 


Canned Sweet Corn 


150 


Coffee 






120 


Caramel 




Connecticut Loaf 




120 


Cake 


115, 116 


Cream Pie 






128 


Junket 


71 


Date 






122 


Caramels, Chocolate 


136 


Devil 






119 


Carrot 




Devil's Food 






119 


Pudding 


85 


Spanish Devil 






119 


Salad 


50 


Filled 






126 


Casserole 




Fruit 






122 


Beef 


37 


Light 






125 


Dutch 


41 


Shortcake 






127 


Rice and Veal 


43 


Harrison 






121 


Rolled Steak 


40 


Hot Milk 






107 


Rosalie's Steak 


39 


Sponge 






108 


Celery and Olive Salad 


54 


Jam 






127 


Chafing Dish 




Jelly Roll 






125 


English Monkey 


144 


Johnny 






27 


Devil 


143 


Milkless, Eggless, 


Butterless 


108 


Kendall's Rarebit 


145 


Minnehaha 






114 


Lobster Newburg 


143 


Mother's Pound 






110 


Shrimps 


144 


Mountain 






108 


Shrimp Wiggle 


144 


New York State Molasses 


123 


Venetian Eggs 


144 


Nut 


115, 


122 


123 


Welsh Rarebit 


145 


Orange 




113 


114 


Charlotte, French 


72 


Park Street 






112 


Cheese 




Penuchi 






120 


and Macaroni 


63 


Plain 






110 


Fondue 


61 


Quick 






111 


Salad 


54 


Rhubarb Tutti Frutti 




126 


Souffle 


62 


Snow T 






111 


Sticks 


106 


Sour Milk 






120 


Cherry, Mock Pie 


91 


Spice 






121 


Chili Sauce 


154 


Sponge 


108, 


109 


110 


Chipped Pear 


151 


Vienna 






111 


Chocolate 




Western White 






111 


Bread Pudding 


78 


White 






112 


Cake 


117, 118 


Cakes 








Caramels 


136 


Drop 






99 


Cookies 


96, 97 


Molasses Drop 






100 


Filling for Cream Pie 


129 



160 THE 


ETA COOK BOOK 




Chocolate 




Confections 




Fudge 


137 


Penuchi 


139 


Meringue 


77 


Conserve 




Mocha Frosting 


128 


Currant 


149 


Nesnah 


77 


Plum 


149 


Nut Cookies 


97 


Rhubarb 


149 


Pie, New England 

Plum Pudding 

Pudding 

Steamed Pudding 

Taffy 

Walnut Custard 


92 
78 
78 
79 
139 
* 79 


Cookies 
Chocolate 
Chocolate Nut 
Cocoanut 
Ginger Crisps 


96, 97 
97 
97 
98 
98 
99 
100, 101 


Chocolates, Genesee 


138 


Ginger Drops 


Chops, Baked 


42 


Ginger Snaps 
Hermits 


Chop Suey 

Chow-Chow, Mustard 153 
Chowder, Shrimp 31 
Chutney, Peach or Apple Sauce 150 


Oatmeal 

Oatmeal Macaroons 

Maxim 

Molasses 


103 
103 
105 
100 


Clams and Macaroni 
Cocktail 

Fruit 

Strawberry 
Cocoa Loaf 
Cocoanut 

Cookies 

Drops 

Puffs 


63 

156 
156 
116 

97 
97 


Peanut 

Rich 

Rocks 

Rolled Oats 

Rosalie's Filled 

Sugar 

Vanilla Wafers 


102 
104 
101, 102 
103 
105 
104 
104 


98 


Corn 




Macaroons 


98 


Cake 


27 


Coffee 




Canned Sweet 


150 


Cake 


120 


Escalloped 


60 


Cream 


70 


Crab, Mock 


61 


Pie 


92 


Cracked Wheat Pudding 


86 


Rolls 


23 


Cranberry 




Sauce 


89 


Cream 


82 


Souffle 


70 


Pudding 


82 


Spanish Cream 


72 


Sauce 


90 


Confections 




Cranberries 


90 


Caramels 


137 


Cream 




Chocolate Caramels 


136 


Bavarian 


71 


Chocolate Taffy 


139 


Coffee 


70 


Creamy Fudge 


138 


Coffee Spanish 


72 


Divinity Candy 


140 


Cranberry 


82 


Divinity Cream 


139 


Filled Melons 


89 


Divinity Fudge 


140 


Gravy for Beefsteak 


40 


Fig Paste 


141 


Macaroon 


69 


French Dainties 


142 


Pie Cake 


128 


Fudge 


137 


Puffs 


106 


Genesee Chocolates 


138 


Rice 


73 


Maple Creams 


141 


Salad Dressing 


55 


Peanut Butter Fudge 


138 


Tomato Toast 


66 



THE 


ETA COOK BOOK 


161 


Creamed 




English 




Macaroni and Cheese 


63 


Monkey 


144 


Salmon 


35 


Steamed Pudding 


87 


Tomatoes 


66 


Entrees 




Crecy Soup 


30 


Baked Bananas 


65 


Croquettes 




Baked Stuffed Peppers 


61 


Potato and Nut 


64 


Candied Sweet Potatoes 


65 


Rice 


65 


Cheese Fondue 


61 


Crumpets 

Cup Cake, Sour Milk 

Currant Conserve 


28 
121 
149 


Cheese Souffle 
Creamed Macaroni 
Creamed with Cheese 
Creamed Tomatoes 


62 
63 
63 

66 


Custard 




Delicious Sweet Potatoes 


65 


Chocolate Walnut 


79 


Egg Omelet 


51 


Date Bread 


88 


Escalloped Celery and Onions 


60 






Escalloped Corn 


60 


D 




Escalloped Tomatoes 


67 






Fleda's Omelet 


59 


Dandelion Wine 


156 


German Cabbage 


60 


Date 




Macaroni and Clams 


63 


and Apple Salad 


54 


Macaroni and Ham 


63 


and Nut Torte 


84 


Macaroni and Oysters 


63 


Bread Custard 


88 


Mexican Macaroni 


62 


Cake 


122 


Potato and Nut Croquettes 


64 


Pie 


92 


Potatoes, au Gratin 


64 


Devil 


143 


Potatoes, Baked in Half 




Cake 


119 


Shell 


64 


Spanish Cake 


119 


Rice Croquettes 


65 


Devil's Food 


119 


Rice and Pimentoes 


66 


Dingbats 


109 


Royal Escallope 


60 


Divinity 




Tarn ale Loaf 


67 


Creams 


139 


Tomato Cream Toast 


66 


Fudge 


140 


Turkish Pilaf 


67 


Pudding 


87 


Escallope, Royal 


60 


Dough, Biscuit 


25 


Escalloped 




Doughnuts 


95 


Celery and Onions 


60 


Baptist 


95 


Corn 


60 


Drop 




Ham 


43 


Cakes 


99 


False Rabbit 


44 


Cocoanut 


97 


Fig 




Hermits 


100 


Paste 


141 


Molasses 


100 


Tapioca Pudding 


74 


Dutch Casserole 


41 


Fish 








Baked Halibut 


33 


E 




Baked Salmon 


35 






Creamed Salmon 


35 


Kgg 




Fricasseed Oysters 


34 


Omelet 


59 


Haddock, a la Rarebit 


34 


Fleda's Omelet 


59 


Salmon Loaf 


35 


Sauce 

• 


89 


Scalloped Oysters 


34 



162 



THE ETA COOK BOOK 



Fish 

Shrimps 35 
Shredded WheatOy sterPatties 33 

Frappe 

Nut 135 

Pineapple 135 

French 

Dainties 142 

Charlotte 72 

Pickle 154 

Frostings 128 

Chocolate Mocha 128 

Mocha 128 

Walnut-Raisin 129 

Frozen Peaches 134 

Fruit 
Cake 122, 125 

Cocktail 156 

Rolls 23 

Salad 53 

Sherbet 133 

Shortcake 127 

with Jello 84 



Gee-Whizzes 103 

Genesee Chocolates 138 

German Cabbage 60 

Ginger 

Crisps 98 

Drops 98 

Snaps 99 

Gingerbread 123, 124 

Soft 124 

Soft Sugar 124 

Gingerome Mousse 131 

Graham 

Bread 19 

Griddles 28 

Nut Bread 21 

Grape 

Catsup 148 

Juice 155 

Grapes, Spiced 152 

Gravy, Cream 40 

Green Tomato Mincemeat 91 

Griddle Cakes 

Graham 28 

Whole Wheat 28 



H 

Haddock, a la Rarebit 34 

Halibut, Baked 33 

Ham 

Baked 42, 43 

Baked Smoked 43 

Escalloped 43 

with Macaroni 63 

Hamburg Loaf 38 

Hermits 100, 101 

Hungarian Goulash 44, 45 



Iced Raspberries 89 

Iced Tea 156 
Ices 
An easy way to make Ice 

Cream " 132 

Cafe Mousse 130 

Cafe Parfait 130 

Frozen Peaches 134 

Fruit Sherbet 133 

Gingerome Mousse 131 

Lemon Delight 134 

Lemon Sherbet 134 

Manhattan Pudding 132 

Milk Sherbet 133 
Nesnah Raspberry Ice Cream 1 32 



Nut Frappe 
Peach Sherbet 
Pineapple Frappe 
Pineapple Mousse 
Strawberry Ice Cream 


135 
134 
135 
131 
133 


Indian Pudding 
Italian Spaghetti 


75 

47 


J 




Jam 

Cake 

Rhubarb and Orange 


127 
151 


Jellied Peaches 
Jello 

Lemon Whip with Prunes 

Popular Recipe 

with Fowl 

with Fruit 


85 


83 

82 
48 
84 



THE 


ETA COOK BOO K 






163 


Jelly 




Macaroons 








Bar-le-Duc 


151 


Cocoanut 






98 


Spiced Crabapple 


152 


Oatmeal 






103 


Jelly Roll 


125 


Pecan Nut 






102 


Johnny Cake 


27 


Manhattan Puddi 


"g 


131, 


132 


Junket, Caramel 


71 


Maple Creams 
Marguerites 






141 
106 


K 




Marmalade 
Amber 






148 
147 


Kendall's Rarebit 


145 


Citrons 






148 


Ketchup, Tomato 


149 


Orange - 




147, 


148 


Kewpies 


105 


Marshmallow 








Kiss Pudding 


68 


Loaf 






81 


Kisses 


106 


Pudding 
Maxim Cookies 






80 
105 


L 




Meat 
Balls 






45 


Lamb, To use cold Boiled 


45 


Pie 






46 


Lemon 




Sauce for 






48 


Delight 


134 


Melons, Creamed filled 




89 


Jello Whip with Prunes 


83 


Meringue 








Pie 


93, 94 


Chocolate 






77 


Pudding 


72, 73 


Rice 






73 


Rice Pudding 


74 


Milk 








Sherbet 


134 


Shake 






157" 


Loaf 




Sherbet 






133 


Beef 


38 


Sponge Cake 




107 


108 


Cocoa 


116 


Milkless, Eggless, 


Butterless 




Hamburg 


38 


Cake 






108 


Marshmallow 


81 


Mincemeat, Green 


Tomato 


91 


Salmon 


35 


Minnehaha Cake 






114 


Swedish 


38 


Mocha 








Tarn ale 


67 


Frosting 






128 


Lobster 




Pudding 






76 


a la Newburg 


143 


Mock 








Newburg 


143 


Bisque 
Crab 






91 
61 


M 




Cherry Pie 
Molasses 






91 


Macaroni 




Cookies 






100 


and Clams 


63 


Drop Cakes 






100 


and Oysters 


63 


New York State Cake 




123 


Creamed with Cheese 


63 


Mother's 








Mexican 


62 


Bran Muffins 






24 


Salad 


50 


Pound Cake 






110 


Sauce for 


48 


Mountain Dew Pudding 




68 


with Ham 


63 


Mousse 








Macaroon 




Cafe 






130 


Cream 


69 


Gingerome 






131 


Pudding 


69 


Pineapple 






131 



164 THE 


E T A t 


'OO K BOOK 




Muffins 


23, 24 


Orange 




Bran 


24 


and Rhubarb Jam 


151 


Breakfast 


24 


Cake 113 


114 


Mother's Bran 


24 


Candied Peel 


141 


Nut 


122 


Filling 


129 


Oatmeal 


25 


Marmalade 147 


148 


Rice 


25 


Pudding 


75 


Rolled Oats 


25 


Oven Stew 


41 


Wheat 


25 


Oysters 




Mustard 




and Macaroni 


63 


Chow-Chow 


153 


Fricasseed 


34 


Pickle 


153 


Scalloped 


34 






Shredded Wheat Patties 


33 


N 




P 




Nesnah 








Chocolate 


77 


Parfait Cafe 


130 


Raspberry Ice Cream 


132 


Parker House Rolls 


22 


New England Chocolate Pie 92 


Park Street Cake 


112 


New York State 




Paste, Fig 


141 


Fried Cakes 


96 


Pastry 




Molasses Cake 


123 


Buttered Apple Pie 


92 


Newton Tapioca Pudding 


75 


Coffee Pie 


92 


Never-fail Sponge Cake 


110 


Date Pie 


92 


Nut 




Lemon Pie 93, 94 


and Potato Croquettes 


64 


Mock Cherry 


91 


and Raisin Souffle 


85 


New England Chocolate 


92 


Bread 


20, 21 


Pie Crust 


91 


English Bread 


21 


Sponge Lemon 


94 


Graham Bread 


21 


Peach 




Cake 122, 123 


Butter 


152 


Chocolate Cookies 


97 


Chutney 


150 


Frappe 


135 


Sherbet with Milk 


134 


Muffins 


122 


Peaches 




Pecan Macaroons 


102 


Frozen 


134 


Squares 


102 


Jellied 


85 


Nutlets, Butter Thin 


105 


Peanut Butter 








Fudge 


138 


o 




Cookies 
Pear 


102 


Oatmeal 




Chipped 


151 


Bread 


19, 20 


Sweet Pickled 


151 


Cookies 


103 


Pecan Nut Macaroons 


102 


Macaroons 


103 


Peppers, Baked Stuffed 


61 


Muffins 


25 


Pettijohn Pudding 


86 


Pudding 


86 


Plain Cake 


110 


Omelet 




Plum 




Egg 


59 


Conserve 


149 


Fleda's 


59 


Pudding 


88 



THE ETA COOK BOOK 


165 


Poinsettia Salad 


52 


Puddings 




Pompadour Pudding 


69 


Steamed 


87 


Popovers 


27 


Steamed English 


87 


Porterhouse Steak 


40 


Suet 


88 


Potato 




Turkish 


86 


and Nut Croquettes 


64 


Puff Pudding 


68 


Salad 


49 


Puffs, Cream 


106 


Potatoes 








au Gratin 


64 


Q 




Baked in Half Shell 


64 




Candied Sweet 


65 


Quick Cake 


111 


Delicious Sweet 


65 


Quince Butter 


152 


Pound Cake 


110 






Prune 




R 




Delight 


83 




Pudding 


83 


Rarebit 




Whip 


83 


Kendall's 


145 


with Lemon Jello Wh 


ip 83 


Welsh 


145 


Puddings 




Raspberries, Iced 


89 


Carrot 


85 


Raspberry, Nesnah Ice Cream 


132 


Chocolate 


78 


Rhubarb 




Chocolate Bread 


78 


and Orange Jam 


151 


Chocolate Plum 


78 


Conserve 


149 


Chocolate Steamed 


79 


Tutti Frutti Shortcake 


126 


Cracked Wheat 


86 


Rice 




Cranberry 


82 


and Pimentos 


66 


Cup 


76 


and Veal en Casserole 


43 


Divinity. 


87 


Cream 


73 


Fairy Banquet 


81 


Croquettes 


65 


Fig Tapioca 


74 


Meringue Pudding 


73 


Indian 


75 


Muffins 


25 


Kiss 


68 


Rich, Delicate Cookies 


104 


Lemon 


72, 73 


Rocks 101, 


102 


Lemon Rice 


74 


California 


101 


Macaroon 


69 


Roll, Jelly 


125 


Manhattan 


131, 132 


Rolled Oats 




Marshmallow 


80 


Cookies 


103 


Mocha 


76 


Muffins 


25 


Mountain Dew 


68 


Rolled Steak, en Casserole 


40 


Newton Tapioca 


74 


Rolls, Fruit 


23 


Oatmeal 


86 


Rosalie's 




Orange 


75 


Filled Cookies 


105 


Pineapple 


75 


Steak, en Casserole 


39 


Plum 


88 


Royal Escallope 


60 


Pompadour 


69 


Russian Salad Dressing 


55 


Prune 


83 






Puff 


68 


s 




Rice Meringue 


73 






Snow 


72, 


Salad 50-1 


Sponge 


72 


Apple and Date 


54 



166 THE 


ETA COOK BOOK 




Salad 




Souffle 




Carrot 


50 


Mocha 


76 


Celery and Olive 


54 


Raisin and Nut 


85 


Cream Cheese 


54 


Soup 




de Lux 


52 


Asparagus 


30 


Fruit 


53 


Bisque 




Macaroni 


50 


Mock 


31 


Perfection 


51 


Tomato 


31 


Poinsettia 


52 


Shrimp Chowder 


31 


Potato 


49 


Vegetable 


32 


Tunny Fish 


. 49 


Sour Milk 




Salad Dressing 54, 55, 


57, 58 


Cake 


120 


Boiled 


56, 57 


Cup Cakes 


121 


Cream 


55 


Spaghetti 




Russian 


55 


and Beef 


47 


Uncooked 


55 


Italian 


47 


Without Oil 


56 


Spanish 




Salmon 




Beef 


42 


Baked 


35 


Coffee Cream 


72 


Creamed 


35 


Devil Cake 


119 


Loaf 


35 


Spare Ribs and Cabbage 


44 


Sandwiches 


146 


Spice Cake 


121 


Pimento and Cheese 


146 


Spiced 




Sauce 




Crabapple Jelly 


152 


Chili 


154 


Grapes 


152 


Chutney 


150 


Sponge 




Coffee 


89 


Cake 108, 109 


110 


Egg 


89 


Never-fail Cake 


110 


Scalloped Oysters 


34 


Steamed 




Sherbet 




English Pudding 


87 


Fruit 


133 


Pudding 


87 


Lemon 


134 


Stew, Oven 


41 


Milk 


133 


Sticks, Cheese 


106 


Peach 


134 


Strawberry 




Shortcake 




Cocktail 


156 


Fruit 


127 


Ice Cream 


133 


Rhubarb Tutti-Frutti 


126 


Suet Pudding 


88 


Shredded Wheat 




Sugar Cookies 


104 


for Breakfast 


22 


Swedish Loaf 


38 


Oyster or Meat Patties 


33 


Sweet Bread Biscuit 


26 


with Strawberries 


29 


Sweet Potatoes 




Shrimp 




Candied 


65 


Chowder 


31 


Delicious 


65 


Wiggle 


144 






Shrimps 


35, 144 


T 




Snow Cake 


111 






Soft Gingerbread 


124 


Taffy, Chocolate 


139 


Souffle 


46 


Tamale Loaf 


67 


Cheese 


62 


Tea, Iced 


156 


Coffee 


70 


Third Bread 


18 



THE ETA COOK BOOK 



167 
111 



79 
129 

22 
111 

25 

84 

79 

83 

112 

22 

28 



Tomato 




Vienna Cake 


Bisque 


31 




Cream Toast 


66 


w 


Ketchup 


149 




Tomatoes 




Walnut 


Creamed 


66 


Chocolate Custard 


Escalloped 


67 


Raisin Frosting 


Torte, Nut and Date 


84 


Wellesley Bread 


Tunny Fish Salad 


49 


Western White Cake 


Turkish 




Wheat Muffins 


Pilaf 


67 


Whip 


Pudding 


86 


Apricot 
Pineapple 


Y 




Prune 
White Cake 


Vanilla, Dainty Wafers 


104 


Whole Wheat 


Vegetable Soup 


32 


Bread 


Venetian Eggs 


144 


Griddle Cakes 




168 THE ETA COOK BOOK 



Jldditional T^ecipes 







sv\/^tJLM^ 









THE ETA COOK BOOK 169 



Additional Ifecipes 










170 THE ETA COOK BOOK 



Jldditional T^ecipes 



THE ETA COOK BOOK 171 



Jldditional T^ecipes 



172 THE ETA COOK BOOK 



Additional Recipes 



THE ETA COOK BOOK 173 



A dditional R ecipes 




America's Most Famous 
Dessert 




No cooking — no work, when you 
make Jell-O Desserts. 

All that is required to make one is a 
ten-cent package of Jell-O and a pint of 
boiling water. 

Seven Delightful Flavors : Lemon, 
Orange, Strawberry, Raspberry, Cherry, Peach, Chocolate. 
Frappes, sherbets, souffles, charlottes, salads, puddings, 
plain JELL-O desserts, fruited JELL-O desserts — almost 
everything conceivable that is good for dessrrt — can be 
made of JELL-O. 

Be sure to get the JELL-O package with the word 
JELL-O in big red letters. If the word Jell-O is not on 
the package it isn't JELL-O. 

All grocers sell JELL-O, 10c. a package. The price 
never goes up. 

Send to us for our beautiful recipe book. It is free. 

THE GENESEE PURE FOOD CO., 

Le Roy, N. Y., and Bridgeburg, Can. 



XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX 

* THOROUGHLY RELIABLE 



x 



x 



THE BEST RESULTS ARE OBTAINED 
g BY USING 



X 
X 



X 
X 
X 
X 

g 

X 



X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 



Baker's 
Chocolate 

(Blue Wrapper* Yellow Label) 

In making Cakes, Pies, Puddings, 
Frosting, Ice Cream, Sauces, 
Fudges, Hot and Cold Drinks 

For more than 133 years this 
chocolate has been the standard 
for purity, delicacy of flavor 
and uniform quality. 

53 Highest Awards in Europe and America 

The trade-mark, "La Belle Chocolatiere," 
on every genuine package. A beautifully 
illustrated booklet of new recipes for 
Home Made Candies and Dainty Dishes 
sent free. Drop a Postal to 




Registered 
U. S. Pat. Office 



Walter Baker & Co. Ltd. 

Established 1780 DORCHESTER, MASS. 



