LIBRARY OF THE 
NEW YORK STATE COLLEGE 
OF HOME ECONOMICS 

CORNELL UNIVERSITY 
ITHACA, NEW YORK 





The original of tliis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924003519950 



oi 



SO 
Id) 



0) 


- — 


> 


M O 


1^ 




1- 


I^B^ 


0-« 


'° ^f?' 


Q. 


"■ i-r- 




■■ 


CO 


S==co 


eg 

s 


E^^^s 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 
WITH REFERENCE TO 
DIET IN DISEASE ^ j, 



PRACTICAL 



DIETETICS 

WITH REFERENCE TO 

DIET IN DISEASE 



BY 

ALIDA FRANCES PATTEE 

Graduate, Department of Household Arts, State Normal School, 

Framingham, Mass. 
Late Instructor in Dietetics, Bellevue Training School for Nurses, 
Bellevue Hospital, New York City. 

Former Instructor at Mount Sinai, Hahnemann, and the Flower 

Hospital Training Schools for Nurses, New York City; 

Lakeside, St. Mary's, Trinity, and Wisconsin Training 

Schools for Nurses, Milwaukee, Wis.; St. Joseph's 

Hospital, Chicago, 111.; St. Vincent de Paul 

Hospital, Brockville, Ontario, Canada. 



EIGHTH EDITION 

Revised and Enlarged 

Price $1.50 






F. PATTEE, Publisher 

Mount Vernon, New York 
1914 



n^M:UL 



i5ajui> 



-p 






Set up, electrotyped, printed, and copyrighted, June, 1903 

Reprinted July, 1904, February, 1905, October, 1906, and November, 1908 

Revised, reset, and recopyrighted December, 1910 

Reprinted August, 1912, October, 1913 



Copyright, 1903, 1904, 1905, 1910, by 
ALIDA FRANCES PATTEE 



Entered at Stationers' Hall 
All rights reserved 



ICo tbe Zi;raine& IRurec: 
TKIlbO0e t>sim life is a 
blessing to bumanit^ 



PEEPACB TO THE SIXTH EDITION 

The very gratifying demand for this work has necessitated 
the preparation of a sixth edition. Advantage has been 
taken of this opportunity to revise the book and incorporate, 
as far as space allows, the latest results of research in die- 
tetics. To meet the growing tendency of physicians to pre- 
scribe the exact fuel value of a diet, the total energy value 
of each recipe has been calculated wherever data as to com- 
position of materials used are available, or the quantities 
of materials used are fairly constant. A table has also been 
introduced in which the food value of the materials used in 
the recipes is given. This will be useful in computing other 
food combinations, and in calculating the amount of protein, 
fat or carbohydrates in any dietary, whenever required, with- 
out the tedious mathematical processes usually involved in 
such operations. 

It is hoped that a revised classification of food principles, 
greater emphasis on the value of mineral matter in the diet, 
and fuller discussion of the fundamental principles of nutri- 
tion, will add much to the usefulness of the book. 

In the introduction are presented outlines showing the re- 
quirements in dietetics of the various State Boards of Ex- 
aminers of Nurses, and the contents of the book have been 
rearranged to correspond directly with these requirements. 
This will materially aid the dietitian in arranging the course 
of study for the nurse so as to prepare her adequately for her 
State Examinations. 

Many years of experience as an instructor in dietetics in 
hospitals seem to the author to demonstrate that the "recipe 
book," so-called, should not be separate from the volume 
on "theory." Both theoretical and practical work should be 

vii 



viii FBEFACE 

treated together, otherwise, while the subjects are naturally 
closely allied, the young student becomes confused and is not 
apt to apply the theory to the practice. In this book she 
cannot read a recipe without having her attention called to 
its function in nutrition. Furthermore, for convenience 
sake, the two should be combined in one book of moderate 
size. One hundred and fifty pages have been added to this 
edition with but little increase in bulk. 

I take pleasure in acknowledging the valuable assistance 
rendered by Dr. Mary D. Swartz Eose, Assistant Professor 
of Household Arts, Teachers College, Columbia University, 
New York, in the preparation of this edition; also again to 
express my thanks for valuable material used in the book to 
Mrs. Ellen H. Eichards, Dr. W. Gihnan Thompson, Dr. Max 
Einhorn, Dr. Henry Koplik, Dr. L. Emmett Holt, Dr. Louis 
Starr, Dr. Frederick C. Shattuck, Dr. Elbridge G. Cutler, Dr. 
Elliott P. Joslin, Dr. Harry W. Goodall and Dr. Maynard 
Ladd. 

Alida Feancbs Pattee. 

New York, December, 1910. 

EXTEACT FEOM PeEFACE TO FiFTH EDITION 

I have been particularly pleased to see "Practical Dietet- 
ics " accepted as a text-book by so many educational and other 
authorities. Thus it is to be found in all hospitals of the 
United States Army; it has been recommended for use by all 
the various State Boards of Examiners of Nurses that have 
thus far been appointed; it has been adopted by the military 
authorities in Canada for the Permanent Schools of Instruc- 
tion for the Militia, and it has also been added to the Author- 
ized Text Book list of the New York City and Boston Public 
Schools. 

New York, November, 1908. 



PEEPACE TO THE SECOND EDITION 

The very cordial reception of the first edition of Practical 
Dietetics has encouraged a second presentation. 

In the preparation of the second issue the original matter 
has been thoroughly revised, and important additions made. 

For valuable material I am indebted to the following 
physicians, hospitals and publishers, and gratefully acknowl- 
edge their assistance and kind permission accorded by them 
to quote their several diets. 

Dr. W. Oilman Thompson, Professor of Medicine in the 
Cornell University Medical College in New York City and 
visiting physician to the Presbyterian and Bellevue Hos- 
pitals : 

Dr. Max Einhorn, Professor of Clinical Medicine at the 
New York Post-Graduate Medical School and Hospital, vis- 
iting physician to the German Dispensary: 

Dr. Henry Koplik, attending physician Mount Sinai Hos- 
pital, ex-president of the American Peediatric Society: 

Dr. L. Emmett Holt, Professor of Diseases of Children 
in the College of Physicians and Surgeons (Columbia Uni- 
versity), attending physician at the Babies' Hospital and 
Foundling Hospital, New York: 

Dr. Louis Starr, Consulting Peediatrist to the Maternity 
Hospital, Philadelphia; late Clinical Professor of Diseases 
of Children in the Hospital of the University of Pennsyl- 
vania : 

Dr. Frederick C. Shattuck,. Professor of Clinical Medicine 
in Harvard University, visiting physician Massachusetts Gen- 
eral Hospital: 

Dr. Elbridge G. Cutler, Instructor in Theory and Prac- 
tice at Harvard Medical School, visiting physician Massa- 
chusetts General Hospital: 

ix 



X PREFACE 

Dr. Kathan Smith Davis, late Dean Northwestern Uni- 
versity Medical School, Chicago: 

Bellevue Hospital, Mount Sinai Hospital, the Presby- 
terian Hospital, the Society of Lying-in Hospital (New 
York), Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston:- 

D. Appleton & Co., Blakiston & Co., William Wood & 
Co., and the publisher of the Dietetic and Hygienic Gazette : 

And sincere thanks are due Mrs. Ellen H. Eichards (In- 
structor in Sanitary Chemistry, Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology) for aid and information, also for permission to 
quote from the Eumford Kitchen Leaflets. 

A. F. Pattee. 

New York, July, 1904. 



PEEFACE TO THE FIRST EDITION" 

As instructor of dietetics at various hospitals I have con- 
stantly felt the need of a simple manual and text-book for 
the use of the nurse in the classroom. 

None could be found which fulfilled the requirements as 
to simplicity, brevity, and exactness, with reference to dietetic 
treatment in disease. 

This same need has been expressed by mothers and nurses 
outside of the hospital. 

In the following pages I have endeavored to meet this 
need by giving the result of knowledge gained during the 
past eight years of practical classwork experience in hospitals 
of different cities. 

The preparation of food is a science as well as an art, the 
chemistry of which is as precise as the chemistry of the 
laboratory. When we are willing to be as exact and care- 
ful in this work as we are in chemical experiments, our suc- 
cess will become a certainty. No other technical art can, with 
so little practical knowledge, go as far in simplifying that 
which is otherwise complicated and laborious, or do more 
toward accomplishing that which is a chief result of all 
science — adding to the comfort and happiness of the human 
race. 

A. F. Pattee. 

New York, July, 1903. 



XI 



INTEODUCTION 

In response to the many requests of Superintendents of 
Training Schools and Dietitians for an outline of the va- 
rious State Board Eequirements in Dietetics, I herewith 
quote with permission the following outlines of courses of 
study recommended by the American Hospital Association, 
New York, Minnesota, Illinois and Colorado State Boards 
of Examiners of Nurses. Answers to all questions are to 
be found in this book. Eequirements of other States when 
issued will be added in each new edition of " Practical 
Dietetics." 

These outlines will prove of assistance to the Dietitian in 
arranging her course of study for the nurse, and will also 
prove suggestive to the nurse in preparing for her State 
Examinations. 

Through the kindness of the various State Boards of Ex- 
aminers of Nurses I am also able to quote the examination 
questions of various States. 

Course of Study in Dietetics Arranged by the American 
Hospital Association 

PRELIMINARY TERM 
Dietetics: Classification of foods, care of foods, cooking of foods, 
serving of foods. 

PiRST Year 
Tray setting and food serving; feeding the helpless and delirious 
patients; management of liquid diet. 

Second and Thibd Year 
Milk modification for infants according to different formulae; also 
for fever patients and invalids. " It is recommended that continued 
and special attention be given throughout the second year, to 
dietetics, hygiene and the management of special diseases." 

xiii 



xiT INTRODUCTION 

Second Yeab Theoretical Work 
Foods and food value; eight to fourteen hours. 

TSiRD Yeae Practical Work 

Diet kitchen practice, including the modification of milk, one to 
two mouths. 

Course of Study in Dietetics Arranged by the Colorado State 

Board 

Dietetics 
FOOD — DEFINITION — CLASSIFICATION 

1. Organic — 

a. Proteids. 

b. Fats. 

c. Carbohydrates. 

2. Inorganic — • 

a. Water. 

b. Salts. 

3. The uses of foods in disease. 

4. Practical work should be given in at least twelve (12) lessons 

and should include plain and fancy cooking for in- 
valids. 

5. Pupils should be familiar with the text of either Pattee, Farmer 

or equivalent. 

Course of Study in Dietetics Arranged by the Illinois State 

Board 

PRELIMINARY TERM 

Dietetics 

Second Four Weeks 

Simple nourishments. Hospital diet lists. Times of feeding. 

Methods of feeding. Preparation of the following, to be served to 

patients : 

Milk, cold and hot. Malted milk, cold and hot. Lemonade. Beer. 
Gruel. Egg-nog. Orangeade. Root Beer. Soda-pop. Buttermilk. 
Fruit Juices. Broth. 

First Year 
Diet Cooking: 12 practical demonstrations, 2 hours each. 



INTRODUCTION xv 

Course of Study in Dietetics Arranged by the Michigan State 

Board of Examiners of Nurses 

LECTURE COURSE: JUNIOR YEAR 

Dietetics 

FOUR LECTURES 

1. Foodstufifs and their classification. 

2. Principles of cooking. 

3. Beverages: Milk, etc. 

4. Serving of food, combination of food and 12 lessons in practical 

demonstration in diet kitchen. Written examination to be 
held at the end of lectures. 

Course of Study in Dietetics Arranged by the Minnesota State 

Board 

SECOND YEAR 

Dietetics 
Theoretical 'Work 
(Anatomy and Physiology of digestion. Review subject as al- 
ready given in Anatomy, i. e. — mechanical and chemical processes, 
absorption, assimilation, metabolism, elimination.) 

Food — definition of, source, function, composition, classification 
and food adjuncts. 

Water — minerals, fa,ts and oils, carbohydrates and proteids, each 
studied as to their composition, food value, digestion and compara- 
tive values. 

General principles to be observed in cooking of starch, meat, eggs, 
poultry, game, fish, cereals and vegetables. 

Practical Work 

Dietetics — 24 two-hour lessons — individual class work under 
dietitian. (15 minutes to theory and remainder of period to prac- 
tical work.) 

Practical work to include the proper methods of preparing and 
serving: Coffee, tea, cocoa, chocolate, beef juice, beef broth, chicken 
broth, oyster broth, egg-nog, albumin, milk. Cream soups (tomato, 
corn, celery, pea ) . Toast, crolltons, pulled bread. Bread — graham, 
wheat, whole wheat, gluten, nut. Light desserts — cornstarch, gela- 
tin, ices, ice cream, baked apples. Eggs — ■ soft-boiled, poached, 
creamed, custard, omelet. Beefsteak, lamb chops, roast beef, roast 
lamb, bacon, sweetbreads, scraped beef. Chicken and game. Baked 
and broiled whitefish, halibut, bass, brook trout, oysters. Rice, oat- 
meal, cream of wheat, rolled oats. Potatoes — baked, boiled, 



xvi INTRODUCTION 

creamed, esealloped and stuffed. Fruits — stewed and fresh. Sal- 
ads — French salad dressing, cooked salad dressing, mayonnaise. 
Vegetables. 

CoTirse of Study in Dietetics Arranged by fhe Missouri State 
Board of Examiners of Nurses 

Dietetics 
FIRST YEAR 
Probationary Course. Two to Four Months 
Tray setting and food serving; feeding of helpless patients; man- 
agement of liquid diet. 

FIRST YEAR 
Probationary Course. Two to Four Months 
Dietetics. (Theoretical and practical work.) Pattee's Practical 
Dietetics. Part 1. 

SECOND YEAR 
First Half. Intermediate Term (4% months) 
Dietetics. (Theoretical and practical work.) Pattee's Practical 
Dietetics. Part 2. 

Course of Study in Dietetics Arranged by the New York State 

Board 

PRELIMINARY TERM 
Dietetics, 14 hours 
Theory 
Water: source, function, varieties of drinking water, source of 
disease. 

Beverages: tea, coffee, cocoa, chocolate; history and growth of 
plants; composition, nutritive value; physiological effects. 

Constituents of milk: care and preservation; bacteria in milk; ef- 
fects of heat on milk; adulteration- — -digestibility; value of skimmed 
milk; whey, buttermilk, cheese. 

Infant feeding; comparison of human and cow's milk; modifica- 
tion of milk; certified milk; capacity of infant's stomach; symp- 
toms considered in regulating the feeding of infants. 

Practical 
Care of dining-room, gas range, cooking utensils, ice box and con- 
tents. 

Preparation of trays; how to make them attractive; how to serve; 
quantity, quality and temperature of food; how to feed helpless 
patients. 



INTRODUCTION xvii 

Beverages: water, tea, coffee, cocoa, chocolate, wines, fruit juices,, 
malted milk, prepa'-ed foods. 

Milk: pas .i/L^, sterilizing, modification, kumyss, buttermilk 
(artificial) and whey. 

Eggs in various forms as liquid diet; gruels. 

Milk and eggs as food; custards; junket; white sauce; cottagft 
cheese. 

INTERMEDIATE TEEM, FIRST HALF 

Dietetics, 10 two-hour lessons (under dietitian) 

Theoretical 

Digestion and absorption : ' review subject of digestion as already 
given in anatomy, i. e., mechanical and chemical processes, absorp- 
tion, assimilation, metabolism, elimination of waste. 

Food: source, function, food adjuncts, definition of food, compo- 
sition, classification. 

Mineral matter: source and function. 

Carbohydrates: why so called, source, function, nutritive value. 

General principle in cooking cereals, vegetables, fruits, nuts and 
sugars. 

Eggs : composition ; test for freshness ; digestibility ; nutritive val- 
ues; efl'ect of temperature; advantages and disadvantages in use. 

Meat: composition; nutritive value; effect of hot and cold water; 
comparative value of tea and broth; raw compared with cooked; 
organs used as food; gelatin. 

Poultry: game. 

Fish : classes ; composition ; signs of freshness ; care of fish ; nutri- 
tive value; digestibility. 

Mollusks : crustaceans. 

Fats and oils: source, animal and vegetable; function; digestibil- 
ity; comparative value as fuel food. 

Practical 

Toast; cereals; cornstarch; macaroni; rice; sandwiches. 

Starchy vegetables, legumes. 

Green vegetables, salads, dressings (cream and oily) 

Fruit, fresh and cooked; fruit puddings. 

Soups, stock and creamy; broths. 

Broiled meats, giving cuts. 

Chicken and game. 

Fish, shell and scaly. 

Frozen desserts; sponge cake; wafers. 

If the pupils are not assigned to a term of service in the diet 
kitchen, practice in preparing and serving full meals should be given 
in connection with this series of lessons. 



xviii INTRODUCTION 

SENIOR TERM 
Dietetics 
Theory, at least 6 hours 
Diet in childhood. 
Diet in disease. 
Food values. 

Comparison of animal, vegetable and mixed diets. 
Calculating dietaries. 
Planning menus. 

Practical 
During the term the nurse in charge of wards should nlake prac- 
tical application of the theory of dietetics and study food ordered 
for patients under her care, in connection with the cases for which 
it is ordered. 

Course of Study in Dietetics Arranged by the Oregon State 

Board of Examiners of Nurses 

PRELIMINARY TERM 

Dietetics 

Second Fouk Weeks 

Simple nourishments. Hospital diet lists. Times of feeding. 

Methods of feeding. Preparation of the following, to be served to 

patients : 

Milk, cold and hot. Malted milk, cold and hot. Lemonade. Beer. 
Gruel. Egg-nog. Orangeade. Root Beer. Soda-pop. Buttermilk. 
Fruit Juices. Broth. 

First Yeab 
Diet Cooking: 12 practical demonstrations, 2 hours each. 

Course of Study in Dietetics Arranged by the Pennsylvania 
State Board of Examiners of Nurses 

Dietetics 
PRELIMINARY COURSE 
Second Week 
Serving of trays and feeding helpless patients. Three hours daily. 

TWO YEARS COURSE 
First Year 
Lecture I. Foodstuffs and their classification. 
Liecture II. Principles of cooking. 
Lecture III. Beverages, Milk. 
Lecture IV. Serving of food. Combination of food. 



INTRODUCTION xix 

Lecture V. Relation of diet and nutrition. 
Lessons ; Twelve. 

Practical demonstration in diet kitchen on care of 
gas range, electric range, cooking utensils and 
ice box. 
Preparations of trays. 
Feeding of helpless patients. 
Preparation of food. 

Second Yeab 
Lecture I. Carbohydrates; their sources, food values and prepara- 
tion. 
Lecture II. Meats; their food values and methods of preparation. 
Lecture III. Egga; their value, tests for freshness, and preparation. 
Lecture IV. Fish, clams, oysters; their food value, and prepara- 
tion. 
Lecture V. Special diets in different diseases. 
Lessons; Twelve. 

Practical demonstrations in diet kitchen, preparing 
and serving the different varieties of food. 

THREE YEARS COURSE 
The same as first and second year's Courne with the addition of 
the following matter: — 

Computing cost of foods. 

Computing food values. 

Planning menus for people in health and disease. 

Feeding of children, sick and well. 

Dietary for special diseases. 

Practical work in diet kitchen with instructor. 

Course of Study in Dietetics Arranged by the Vermont State 
Board of Examiners of Nurses 

Dietetics 

Classification of foods, care of foods, cooking of foods, serving of 
foods. 

Tray-setting and food serving: feeding of helpless and delirious 
patients; management of liquid diet. 

Course of Study in Dietetics Arranged by the Wisconsin State 
Board of Examiners of Nurses 

Dietetics 
FIRST YEAR 
Probationary Course. Three Months. 
Feeding helpless patients. Serving liquid diets under direction. 
Charting diets. 



XX INTRODUCTION 

SECOND TERM JANUARY 3 TO MAY 31 

Dietetics. — Twelve classes. Theory, one-half hour. Demonstra- 
tion, one and one-half hours. Review physiology of digestion ; 
mechanical and chemical processes; absorption; assimilation, and 
elimination. 

Foods. — Classification, composition, and function. 

Food values. 

Principles to be observed in the preparation of foods. 

Practical IMetetics. — Preparation and serving of the following : 
Coffee, tea, chocolate, cocoa, broths, hot milk, oyster stew, egg-nog, 
eggs (poached, scrambled, jellied, baked), omelets, custards, toasts, 
cream sauce, light-desserts ( including ice cream ) , beefsteak, roasts, 
bacon, sweet breads, fish, chicken, breakfast foods, vegetables, fruits, 
and simple salads. 

Serving of trays. 



state Examination Questions in Dietetics 

COLORADO 
1909 

1. Mention one good nutritive enema. 

2. What is included under the head of liquid diet? 

3. How do you make albumin water? 

4. What is the appearance of healthy beef; chicken; fish? 

5. How would you feed a typhoid patient the first week he gets 
solid food? 

6. Describe all the correct methods you know of preparing food 
for the sick. 

7. What is important in cooking starchy foods? 

8. What foods contain the most albumin* 

9. If you wish to keep the juice in meat, how do you cook it? 
10. Have you had any special training in dietetics? Of what did 

it consist? Name one book on dietetics. Do you own a book on 
dietetics ? 

1911 

1. {a) Define dietetics. (6) What are nitrogenous foods and 
what is their chief function ? 

2. (o) What do you understand by predigested foods? (6) By 
modified milk? 

3. Has skimmed milk any great value as a food? Give reason. 

4. (o) By what signs do you know a fresh egg without break- 
ing? (6) Which are more easily digested, raw or soft-cooked eggs? 
(c) Give a proper method of preparing a soft-boiled egg. 

5. {a) Which has the higher nutritive value, fish or meat? (6) 
Which is more easily digested? 

6. (a) By what signs do you know good beef? (6) By what 
signs do you know good fish? 

7. Give a good method of preparing beef juice and state what 
cuts of beef are best for this purpose? 

8. (a) What is included under the head of light diet? (6) Why 
is butter valuable as a food? 

9. How do you increase the digestibility of starchy foods? Give 
reason. 

10. (o) What instruction have you had in dietetics? (5) Give 
name of one book on dietetics with which you are familiar. 

xxi 



xxii INTRODUCTION 

1912 

1. Define dietetics.' 

2. What processes are necessary to make food of use to the body ? 

3. Name two vegetables containing a large proportion of carbo- 
hydrates. 

4. What food principles predominate in nuts? 

5. Why is a. salt free diet often ordered where there is oedema? 

6. How are broths made? Mention two ways of removing fats 
from soups. 

7. How sterilize water? How oxygenate the same after it is 
sterilized ? 

8. What do you understand by predigested food? By modified 
milk ? 

9. Give a good method for preparing beef juice and state what 
cuts of beef are best for this purpose. 

10. What should be the diet of a tubercular patient in the incipi- 
ent stage. 

CONNECTICUT 

Dietetics and Hygiene 

June, 1909 

1. Name the different classes into which food may be divided. 

2. Name two animal and two vegetable foods which contain fat. 

3. Prepare a day's menu for a patient, excluding starchy foods 
as far as possible, while giving a variety. 

4. What useful function may be performed by the indigestible 
parts of vegetables. 

5. Show why a mixed diet is advisable. 

6. Give one method of predigesting milk. 

7. Prepare a day's menu of at least six meals for a, patient with 
mild fever, excluding milk, but giving as much variety as per- 
missible in a fluid diet. 

8. What are sweetbreads, and how would you prepare and serve 
them? 

9. Why is a thorough cooking especially important in cereal foods 
and not in flesh foods? 

10. Write the rules for preparing three desserts you would use 
in feeding a typhoid fever patient during convalescence. 

11. Give a list of fruits you would recommend for their laxative 
effect. 

January, 1910 

1. Give a brief description of the care of glass drinking tubes 
used by typhoid patients. 

2. Give recipe for (1) partial peptonisation of milk; (2) junket. 



INTRODUCTION xxiii 

3. Mention the foods allowed according to the following classifi- 
cation: (1) Liquid; (2) Soft; (3) Light. 

4. How would you render the following sterile : ( 1 ) Woolen 
blankets; (2) Cotton sheets; (3) Rubber catheters; (4) Your hands? 

5. In making up modification of milk give in detail from the 
time you receive the milk until you give it to the infant the pre- 
cautions you would take to keep certified milk pure. 

6. Tell what you know of either tea or coffee, its production, 
preparation, use and abuse. 

7. What cuts of beef would you select for the following purposes: 
(1) Beef juice; (2) Roast beef ; (3) A tender steak? 

8. What action has prolonged cooking on (1) starch grains; (2) 
albumin ? 

9. What different methods would you employ in cooking chicken 
for (1) broths; (2) fricassee? Why? 

10. Give minute details of your care of the linen used on the bed of 
a scarlet fever patient. 

January, 1911 

1. Describe the diet to be given to a, patient after an operation 
on (a) the liver, (b) the stomach. 

2. What diet would you give to a patient with scarlet fever ? Give 
your reasons. 

3. What is the effect in cooking (a) meat, (b) vegetables? 

4. State why green vegetables are valuable in diets. 

5. Give the preparation of (a) koumiss, (b) whey. 

6. Give a list of six fluid foods. 

7. What are the best natural disinfectants? 

8. What precautions would you take in the use of water where 
the supply is impure? 

9. What are some of the diseases attributed to an impure water 
supply? 

10. Describe fully one method of ventilation for a sick room. 

January, 1912 

1. Of what use is gelatin as food? 

2. What points must be observed in the cooking and serving of 
cereals ? 

3. Name the five most important food compounds. 

4. Name some of the points to be considered in the amount of 
food needed by an individual? 

5. What action do the gastric fluids have on milk? How would 
you prepare milk to make it more digestible? 

6. What is the effect of toasting bread? 

7. State your reasons for adding salads to a diet? 

8. What points should be considered in selecting a disinfectant? 



xxiv INTRODUCTION 

9. In what ways is scarlet fever communicated? 
10. What precautions would you take for both your patient and 
yourself before leaving quarantine for scarlet fever? 

January, 1913 

1. State why food should be thoroughly masticated if good 
digestion is to result. 

2. What are the uses of fruit in a diet? 

3. Define the terms (a) Hygiene, (6) Dietetics. 

4. State how you would prepare (a) barley water, (&) oatmeal 
^ruel, (c) albumen water. 

5. Describe fully how to prepare (a) beef broth, (6) mutton 
broth (c) beef juice. 

6. What are predigested foods? 

7. Why is the study of dietetics a valuable asset in the training 
of a nurse? 

8. State what you know of the reason for the present movement 
against nurses wearing their uniforms on the street. 

9. What are communicable diseases ? Give a list of them. 

10. State fully how you would disinfect a room in a, private house 
after a case of typhoid fever. 

June, 1913 

1. How would you prepare and serve (a) soft boiled egg^ (6) 
poached egg? 

2. What is a, salt free diet, and in what diseases is it often 
ordered ? 

3. Describe fully the diet for a rheumatic patient. 

4. Describe the following diets and tell what can be given under 
the different headings, (a) Liquid, (6) Soft, (c) Light. 

5. Give the preparations of a nutritive enema. 

6. How is lime water prepared? Why is it added to milk? 

7. Give some of the essential points for a, nurse to observe in 
serving meals to (a) a, weak convalescent, (6) a helpless patient, (o) 
an unconscious one. 

8. What are the uses of condiments? Give a list of them. 

9. Has a, nurse any duties in a home other than the care of her 
patient ? 

10. Define the terms (o) contagion, (6) incubation, (c) crisis, 
(d) quarantine, (e) immunity. 

(Tabulate answers where, possible.) 

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 
1908 
1. Name three foodstuffs rich in albumin in the order of their 
importance. 



INTRODUCTION xxv 

2. Describe process of digestion and absorption of albuminoids. 

3. What is the object of cooking vegetables and of cooking meats? 

4. Give frequency of feeding patient on liquid diet and on plain 
diet; why the difference? 

5. Name any two diseased conditions which may be brought about 
by dietetic error; state how? 

1909 

1. Name the different classes of foodstuffs and give an example 
of each. 

2. What are the chief ingredients in fruits? 

3. Describe the action of the gastric juice on food. 

4. State the length of time required to cook properly the follow- 
ing cereals : rolled oats, rice, and cornmeal mush. 

5. Give the two complete food products furnished by the animal 
kingdom. 

ILLINOIS 
January, 1911 

1. Define food and name the five principles. 

2. What are some of the uses of water in the body? 

3. What physical and mental conditions decrease the secretion of 
the digestive juices? 

4. Discuss the value of (a) Milk, (b) Beef Tea, (c) Beef Juice. 

5. Name some diseases that may be caused by the following errors 
in diet: (a) InsuflBcient food, (b) Lack of fresh food, (c) Overeating, 
(d) Improperly balanced diet. 

July, 1911 

1. Discuss feeding the sick, under the following headings: Gen- 
eral rules, appetite, the tray. 

2. Define food. Name the different classes of foodstuffs, according 
to their chemical composition, and give the special function of each. 

3. What is meant by " certified milk," " pasteurized milk," " modi- 
fied milk"? 

4. Outline one day's diet for a normal child three years of age. 

5. What diseases may result from: improperly balanced diet, in- 
sufficient food, over-feeding, lack of fresh food. 

January, 1912 

1. Classify food under (o) source, (6) chemical composition, (c) 
function. 

2. Describe the gradual effect of increased heat on white of an egg 
(albumin). 

3. What is lactose and where found? 

4. (a) Of what use is sugar in practical dietetics? (6) What is 
the substitution for sugar, and where found? 



xxvi INTRODUCTION 

5. What are the chief sources of fat in a general diet? 

6. (a) What are the food uses of water? (6) What is distilled 
water and why not used as a beverage? 

7.' Discuss diet in tuberculosis. 

July, 1912 

1. (a) Give the theory of cooking starch. 

(b) What secretions assist in the digestion of starch? 

2. (a) What are the characteristics of an ideal piece of toast? 
(b) How is toast to be served? 

3. (a) Why does milk become sour? 

(b) Is sour milk harmful? 

(c) What preventive measures can be used in summer to keep 
milk from becoming sour? 

4. (a) Define foodstuffs. 

(b) What are the uses of foods? 

5. What is meant by a Calorie? 

(b) How many Calories are needed by the average advilt in 
health ? 

6. Describe five ways of preparing milk and eggs, either separately 
or together, with which to vary a liquid diet. 

7. Name four points which should be considered in the feeding of 
patients. 

8. What changes take place in the making of wheat flour into 
bread? 

MISSOURI 
June, 1913 

1. Name different classes of foodstuffs, and give an example of 
each. 

2. Give theory of cooking starches, and tell where and by what 
digested. 

3. (a) What is Predigested milk? (b) Modified milk? (c) 
Certified milk ? 

4. (a) What is the composition of water? (b) Boiling pointy 
freezing point? (c) How would you render boiled water palatable? 
(d) How would you boil water for Tea? (e) Should Tea be an 
Infusion or a Decoction? 

5. Describe the process of making (a) Beef Tea, (b) Beef Juice. 

6. (a) What should be eliminated from the diet of a Dropsical 
patient ? 

(b) Why is the diet of such importance in Tuberculosis? 

7. What is the value of (a) Sugar in food? (b) Mineral mat- 
ters in food? (e) Condiments? 

8. How should an egg be cooked for an invalid, and how served? 



INTRODUCTION xsvii 

9. What class of foods are restricted in Diabetes? Give one 
reason. 

10. When is a healthy child considered able to digest starchy 
foods? Give reason. 

11. State some of the advantages and disadvantages of milk in a 
case of Typhoid Fever. 

12. What class of Vegetables are rich in Protein? 

13. Give two formulas for Rectal feeding. 

September, 1913 

1. Name different classes of foodstuffs, and give an example of 
each. 

2. Give theory of cooking starches, and tell where and by what 
digested. 

3. (a) What is Predigested milk? ,(b) Modified milk? (c) 
Certified milk? 

4. (a) What is the composition of water? (b) boiling point, 
freezing point? (c) How would you render boiled water palatable? 
(d) How would you boil water for Tea? (e) Should Tea be an 

•Infusion or a Decoction? 

5. Describe the process of making (a) Beef Tea, (b) Beef Juice. 

6. (a) What should be eliminated from the diet of a Dropsical 
patient? 

(b) Why is the diet of such importance in Tuberculosis? 

7. What is the value of (a) Sugar in food? (b) Mineral mat- 
ters in food? (c) Condiments? 

8. How should an egg be cooked for an invalid, and how served? 

9. What class of foods are restricted in Nephritis? Give one 
reason. 

10. When is a healthy child considered able to digest starchy 
foods? Give reason. 

11. State some of the advantages and disadvantages of milk in a 
case of Typhoid Fever. 

12. What class of Vegetables are rich in Protein? 

NEW YORK 
1907 

1. What effect has cooking on meat? 

2. Give recipe for veal broth made from a half pound of veal. 

3. State the length of time required to cook properly the follow- 
ing cereals: rolled oats, Irish oatmeal, steamed rice, cornmeal mush. 

4. How would you make a flour ball? 

5. Give recipe for making an oyster stew containing a pint of 
oysters. 

6. How would you determine whether or not an egg is fresh? 



xxviii INTRODUCTION 

7. Which is more quickly digested, a raw egg or a soft-boiled 
egg? Why? 

8. Give a recipe for egg sandwich. 

9. Give the general rules for making custards. 

10. How would you bake a banana and prepare it for a patient? 

1908 

1. What are the uses of water in the body? 

2. Name three vegetable acids. 

3. Give three examples of foods in which starch is found. 

4. Of what value is sugar as food? 

5. Give three examples of food containing fat. 

6. What hygienic effect has heat on milk? 

7. How should an egg be boiled? How should it be served to an 
invalid ? 

8. How would you make a raw beef sandwich ? 

9. Why is stale bread more easily digested than bread freshly 
baked? 

10. Give recipe for lemon jelly. 

11. Outline a breakfast for a convalescent man. 

12. Outline a dinner for a convalescent woman. 

13. Give recipe for creamy rice pudding. 

14. Of what value are fruits as food? 

15. What are the requirements of food for a fever patient in order 
that proper nourishment may be obtained? 

1909 

1. What is meant by predigested food? 

2. What effect on the system has hot water when taken internally? 

3. What effect has sterilization on milk? 

4. What is condensed milk? State its value as a food. 

5. How is limewater made? 

6. What is farinaceous diet? 

7. What are the most important food products derived from the 
vegetable kingdom? 

8. State the effect of coffee on the system. 

9. What are concentrated foods? State their chief use. 

10. State the food value of green vegetables. 

11. What are the diet requirements in ansemia? 

12. Mention some factors, apart from proper diet, that specially 
affect the digestion. 

13. Name some diseases that may be caused by the following errors 
in diet: (a) insufficient food; (b) overeating; (c) lack of fresh 
food; (d) improperly balanced diet. 

14. What are the reasons for limiting the diet of a young child 
to certain foods? 



INTRODUCTION xxix 

15. What changes in diet should be made in advanced years? 
Why? 

February, 1911 

1. Why should the nurse have a, working knowledge of dietetics? 

2. Classify the food principles as (a) organic or inorganic, (6) 
nitrogenous or non-nitrogenous. 

3. Explain why carbohydrates alone are not sufficient for a 
dietary. 

4. Name the digestive ferments and give their functions. 

5. Describe in detail the proper care of milk from the time it is 
drawn till it is used. 

6. Compare the advantages and the disadvantages of sterilized 
milk with those of pasteurized milk. 

7. Trace the digestion of a glass of milk. 

8. State why it is important for a convalescent typhoid patient 
to resume solid food gradually. 

9. What diet would you give to an anaemic patient, if the matter 
were left to your discretion? 

10. What is the effect of heat on (a) starch, (6) albumen? 

11. What is cellulose and what is its value? 

12. What is the disadvantage of boiled water and how may this 
disadvantage be overcome? 

13. Give four points to be considered in the preparation of au 
invalid's tray. 

14. Give concisely the ingredients and the method of preparation 
of (a) beef tea, (6) oatmeal gruel. 

l.'i. Why is it best to surround the cups with cold water when 
putting custards in to bake? 

June, 1911 

1. State the uses of food. 

2. What processes are necessary to make food of use to the 
body? 

3. What is the object of the digestion of food? 

4. What food principles require digestion? 

5. Name two vegetables containing a good proportion of proteid. 

6. Name two vegetables containing a large proportion of carbo- 
hydrate. 

7. Name two vegetables containing a, large amount of salts. 

8. Why are fruits a valuable addition to a general diet? 

9. What food principle predominates in nuts? 

10. Why are meats restricted or forbidden in cases of nephritis ? 

11. Why are carbohydrates restricted in cases of diabetes? 

12. Why is a, salt-free diet often ordered in illness when there is 
edema? 



XXX INTRODUCTION 

13. Why are meats more digestible when broiled or roasted than 
when fried? 

14. Give the method of making chicken broth. 

15. Mention two ways of removing fat from a soup. 

February, 1912 

1. In what places and under what names is food stored in the 
body? 

2. Give the mechanical processes of digestion. 

3. Of what elements is proteid food composed? 

4. In health what are the advantages of drinking large quantities 
of water? 

5. Outline for a nephritic patient the three meals for one day. 

6. What is (a) chyme, (6) chyle? 

7. What are the uses of condiments? 

8. Why is table salt an essential part of our diet? 

9. What is a calorie? 

10. What articles of food would you avoid giving to a rheumatic 
patient ? 

11. What vegetables and fruits would you give to a, patient with 
a tendency to constipation? Why? 

12. What food principle is lacking in eggs? 

13. Explain briefly the process used in raising and baking bread. 

14. How would you make and serve toast in order to increase its 
digestibility? 

15. Describe the process of making tea, giving reasons for this 
process. 

June, 1912 

1. What is a mixed diet? What are its advantages in health? 

2. Why is fresh air necessary to nutrition? 

3. What may be used as a substitute for sugar in cases where 
carbohydrate food is limited? 

4. Mention four chief sources of fat in the diet. 

5. Which is the more easily digested, fat or carbohydrate food? 

6. What is distilled water? Why is it unsuitable for use as a 
beverage? 

7. Why is salt used with ice in freezing ice cream? 

8. What is buttermilk? What are its uses? 

9. Mention two signs that indicate that an egg is fresh. 

10. What kinds oit food would you give in cases of diarrhea? 

11. What kinds of food would you give in cases of constipation? 

12. What is broiling? What are its advantages over frying? 

13. How would you peptonize a pint of milk by the cold process? 

14. Tell how you would prepare and serve raw beef sandwiches. 

15. Describe briefly the necessary steps in making mutton broth. 



INTRODUCTION xxxi 

January, 1913 

1. Name three juices in the body that aid digestion. 

2. Why do water and mineral salts not require digestion? 

3. What is digestion ? 

4. What is the name of the special substance in any digestive 
juice, which brings about chemical changes in the food? 

5. Where in the body does the oxidation of food take place? 

6. What is meant by the caloric value of food ? 

7. What special value has proteid food? 

8. Name the ferments in the pancreatic juice. 

9. Outline three meals for a patient with chronic constipation. 

10. Why is it now considered desirable not to restrict the diet in 
typhoid fever to fluids only? 

11. What may be the advantage of giving eggs raw in cases of 
tuberculosis ? 

12. How may hard drinking water generally be rendered soft? 

13. Why should potatoes be thoroughly cooked? 

14. Tell how you would make and serve oatmeal gruel. 

15. Tell how you would cream oysters for one person. 

June 1913 

1. Define (a) chyme, (6) chyle. 

2. At what age may a healthy child begin to digest starches? 

3. In what organs and by what enzymes are starches digested? 

4. Mention three results gained by the cooking of food. 

5. Give the freezing and the boiling point of (a) the Fahrenheit 
thermometer, ( 6 ) the centigrade thermometer. 

6. Make a list of five tissue-building foods. 

7. What does the term "top milk" mean? 

8. When 10% top milk is uaed, what is the relative proportion 
of fat to proteid? 

9. Outline the daily care of an ice box. 

10. Contrast the cooking of meat in making broth and in broiling. 

11. Describe the care of milk in the home. Give reasons for your 
answer. 

12. How would you make junket? State the source of rennet. 

13. Give the general rule for making cream vegetable soups. 

14. Tell how you would make cocoa and give your reasons for thus 
making it. 

15. Name two diseases in which carbohydrate food is limited. 

NORTH CAROLINA 
1908 
1. In what foods are ptomaine poisoning most likely to be found ? 
How may this be avoided? 



xxxii , INTRODUCTION 

2. What can you say of the effect of long or second cooking of 
albuminous foods? State whether or not this increases their di- 
gestibility. 

3. Give a list of the easily digested meats, (a) Describe method 
of cooking one of these, (b) Name those you would not give an 
invalid, giving reasons. 

4. Give a list of foods you have been accustomed to giving con- 
valescents from typhoid fever, between the liquid and full diet 
period. 

5. What foods have you given your obstetrical cases during the 
first two weeks? 

6. When is a healthy child considered able to digest starchy 
foods? 

7. Name such foods as you would give a healthy child from 12 
to 18 months of age. 

8. What vegetables supply about the same elements for the sys- 
tem as meats? 

9. What can you say of the long and second cooking of starchy 
foods? 

10. Name such vegetables and fruits as you would give an invalid. 
State reasons. 

1909 

1. Give theory of cooking starches and tell where and by what 
digested. 

2. Name the cereals that require long cooking and give approxi- 
mate time. 

3. Why do we toast bread? 

4. What disease is usually given a carbohydrate-free diet? 

5. Name the heat and energy-giving foods. 

6. What do you consider an ideal diet? 

7. What should be the characteristics of an invalid's diet? 

8. What are some of the advantages of vegetables and fruits in 
our own diet? 

9. Why is cow's milk more likely to disagree with infants during 
the summer than in cold weather? 

10. Up to the present have we been benefited by the pure food 
laws? 

11. Which contains more nourishment, fji of beef juice or fSi 
of beef tea? 

12. Give a list of tissue-building foods. 

13. What should be the diet of a case of acute nephritis? (6) 
A case of eclampsia preceding or following labor? 

14. Give several ways in which milk and eggs may be prepared 
and flavored to give variety to liquid diet. 



INTRODUCTION xxsiii 

15. State some of the advantages and disadvantages of milk, as 
a food for invalids. 

June, 1912 

1. Name the different sources of foods. 

2. From what source do we have (a) Proteids, (b) Carbohy- 
drates, (c) Salts. 

3. What elements do the different classes supply to the body — 
(a) Proteids, (b) Carbohydrates, (c) Salts. 

4. What is the relative value of skimmed and unskimmed milk, 
and why? 

5. What important fvmction does water perform in the body? 

6. Mention some points to be remembered in serving food to 
patients. 

7. Which is preferable, to serve too little or an overabundance to 
a patient, and why? 

8. If you were doing private nursing and could not get ice, how 
would you keep eggs and milk fresh? 

9. Name several ways of cooking eggs for invalids. 
10. Give directions for making whey. 

November, 1912 

1. (a) Define foodstuffs, (b) What are the uses of food? 

2. (a) What causes milk to sour? (b) What preventive meas- 
ures can be used to keep milk from becoming sour? 

3. Describe six ways of preparing milk and eggs, either separately 
or together, with which to vary a liquid diet. 

4. What classes of foodstuffs should be excluded from a rheumatic 
diet, and why? 

5. (a) Give the theory of cooking starch, (b) What secretions 
assist in the digestion of starches? 

6. Mention some diseases in which the diet forms an important 
part in the treatment of disease, or in which errors in diet may have 
serious consequences. 

7. What foods are excluded from a diabetic diet? and give the 
substitutes. 

8. (a) Why is the diet of such importance in the treatment of 
tuberculosis? (b) Of what foods does the diet chiefly consist? 

9. Why is thorough cooking of cereal foods especially important ? 
10. (a) What is a Calorie? (b) How many Calories required 

daily by an adult? 



xxxiv INTRODUCTION 

NEW HAMPSHIRE 
May, 1911 

1. Of what value is food to the human body? 

2. What is the average composition of cow's milk? Mother's 
milk? 

3. State in detail a method of peptonizing milk. 

4. Why are different foods cooked? 

5. What should be the diet of a, tubercular patient in the incipi- 
ent stage? 

6. What is the usual form of diet in acute gastritis? 

7. What foods should be avoided if there is a tendency to flatu- 
lency ? 

8. What should be the general diet in diseases of the heart? 

9. What class of foods is to be avoided in diabetes mellitus? 
10. Give in detail a, day's diet for a diabetic patient. 

October, 1911 

1. Compare mother's and cow's milk. 

2. What are nitrogenous foods? 

3. What foods can be given a patient with diabetes? Give a 
breakfast, dinner and supper for such a patient. 

4. Of what value is beef broth as a food? 

5. Give a detailed method of making baked custards for the sick. 

6. What should be the diet of an habitually constipated person? 

7. Give in detail the diet of a typhoid patient from the beginning 
to the termination of the disease. 

8. How would you make corn-meal gruel? Oyster stew? Chicken 
broth ? 

9. What is the diet in acute nephritis? 

10. How would you prepare a steak? A chop? 

April, 1912 

1. Name the chief classes of food. 

2. When should water be boiled and why? 

3. What value has nitrogenous food? 

4. State in detail the preparation of egg-albumin for a typhoid 
patient. 

5. State in detail how you would make chicken broth. 

C. Give a breakfast, dinner and supper diet for diabetes mellitus. 

7. How would you make an egg-nog? tea? coffee? ' 

8. How would you prepare and serve a steak? a chop? 

9. What is milk? Name four milk products. 
10. How would you peptonize milk? 



INTRODUCTION- xxiv 

October, 1913 

1. How would you cook a steak? A chop? What are th3 ad- 
vantages of your method of cooking over other methods? 

2. How long would you cook a cereal? Why? 

3. How would you make a cup of coffee? Of tea? 

4. Give a diabetic breakfast, dinner and supper in detail. 

5. What is a proper diet to give in acute Bright's disease? 

0. Of what value are the meat broths as foods? 

7. What is the use of the Pure Food Laws? What is food 
adulteration? 

8. How may foods be classified? 

9. State in detail a method of peptonizing milk? 
10. Of what value is milk as a food? 

OKLAHOMA 
October, 1912 

1. Give definition of food. 

2. Why is a mixed diet necessary as an ideal diet? 

3. Describe the gradual effect of heat on the white of an egg. 
(Albumin.) 

4. How should an egg be boiled and served to an invalid? 

5. How would you make and serve toast to increase its digesti- 
bility? 

6. What do you consider an ideal typhoid diet? 

7. Why is cow's milk more likely to disagree with an infant dur- 
ing summer than in cold weather? 

8. What is important in the cooking of starchy foods? 

9. Give diet for obstetrical patient during first week. 
10. Give one good nutritive enema. 

TEXAS 
November, 1912 

1. Name the different classes into which food may be divided. 

2. How would you make beef broth? Beef juice? 

3. What class of foods should be excluded from a rheumatic diet 
and why? 

4. Name three foodstuffs rich in albumin. 

5. Give a general outline of diet for a typhoid fever patient. 
One for a diabetic patient. 

6. Give a list of fruits to be recommended for laxative effect. 

7. Why is a mixed diet necessary? 

8. What effect does boiling have upon tea? 

9. Why is thorough cooking especially important in cereal foods? 
10. Give points to be observed in setting an invalid's tray. 



xxxvi INTRODUCTION 

VIRGINIA 
December, 1911 

1. Name the principal chemical elements contained in the human 
body. 

2. Why is a mixed diet necessary? 

3. How would you prepare beef juice? How much juice will one 
pound of beef make? 

4. Give examples of liquid and soft diet. 

5. What would you give a typhoid patient when he is first al- 
lowed solid food? 

6. What point should always be observed in cooking cereals? 
Mention a complete food. 

WASHINGTON 
1909 

1. State the length of time required to properly cook the follow- 
ing cereals: rolled oats, rice, cornmeal mush. 

2. Of what value are fruits in digestion? 

3. How should an egg be boiled? How should it be served to 
an invalid? 

4. How would you make a raw beef sandwich ? 

5. What are the requirements of food for a fever patient in order 
that the proper nourishment may be obtained? 

6. Why is stale bread more easily digested than bread freshly 
baked ? 

7. What is meant by predigested food? 

8. How would you prepare extract of beef from the raw beef ? 

9. Briefly outline a diet for diabetics. 

10. Would you boil cocoa? Give reasons for your answer. 

1910 

1. How would you prepare a beefsteak? Give reasons for method 
employed. 

2. Why is the saliva an important factor in the digestive process? 

3. If you wish to keep the juice in meat, how do you cook it? 

4. Name one good nutritive enema. 

5. What is important in cooking starchy foods? 

6. What would you include in a soft diet for an invalid? 

7. Briefly outline a diet for a patient suffering from pulmonary 
tuberculosis. 

8. What are the diet requirements in a case of anaemia? 

9. What class of foods should be excluded from a rheumatic diet 
and why? 

10. How do you prepare an egg omelet? Coffee? Cocoa? Tea? 



INTRODUCTION xxxvii 

June, 1913 

1. Name the uses of water in the body. 

2. What are the special functions of the following food princi- 
pals? (a) Proteins, (b) Fats, (c) Carbohydrates. 

3. What constitutes a perfect food? 

4. Give formula for modifying milk for infant feeding, and your 
reasons for the need of modifying. 

5. Give in detail the precautions you would talce to keep certified 
milk pure. 

6. How is milk pasteurized? 

7. Name several articles of food in which iron is available. 

8. What general rules should be observed in the care and cooking 
of cereals? 

9. Of what value are fruit juices? 

10. Give dietetic treatment in acute rheumatism. 

11. State briefly what instruction you have had in Dietetics. 



CONTENTS 

PAGE 

iNTKODUcriON xiii 

The American Hospital Association — Colorado — 
Illinois — Minnesota — New York State Board Ee- 
quirements in Dietetics. 

PAET I 

PEINCIPLES OP NUTKITIOK AND POOD 
PEEPAEATION 

CHAPTER 

I Food . . ... ... .3 

General Object — Definition — Food Accessories (or 
Food Adjuncts) — Source — Composition of the Body 

— Composition of Food — Classification of Food — 
NiTKOGENOus, Protein and Extractives — Non-Niteo- 
GENOUS, Carbohydrates (Starch and Sugar), Fats — 
Water — Mineral Matter. Food Accessories — Condi- 
tions for Perfect Nutrition. 

II Nutrition .... . . . . 36 

Digestion : — Protein — Fats — Carbohydrates — 
Mineral Matter — Water. Resume of Digestion — 
Factors Determining Rate of Digestion. Absobption : 

— Protein — Fats — Carbohydrates — Mineral Matter 

— Water. Metabolisk : — Protein — Fats — Carbo- 
hydrates. Excbetion. 

III Food Values ... 54 

The Balance of Energy and Nitrogen Equilibrium, 
The Energy Value of Food — Energy Requirements of 
the Body — Tables Showing the Nutritive Value of 
Food. 

IV Feeding the Sicas: .72 

General Rules — Physicians' Directions — Feeding 

XXXIX 



XL CONTENTS 

CHAPTEB PAGE 

in Acute Disease — Evidences of Digestion — The Ap- 
petite — Punctuality in Serving — Quality and Quan- 
tity of Food — Temperature of Food — Details in 
Feeding — Bathing and Cleansing the Mouth — Time 
and Position for Feeding — Sleep and Feeding — 
Feeding the Helpless Patient — Feeding the Uncon- 
scious Patient — Forced Feeding — Nasal Feeding — 
Use of the Stomach Tube — Rectal Feeding — Use of 
Alcohol in the Sickroom- — Keeping Ice in the Sick- 
room — Disinfecting Utensils. 

V The Tray . . 85 

Attractive Arrangement of a, Tray. How to Serve 
(General Rules). 

VI Methods op Cooking and Caee of Food ... 88 

Digestibility and Nutritive Value of Cooked Food 

— Success in Cooking — Objective Points in Cooking 

— Eflfect of Heat — Principles Governing the Choice 
of a Method of Cooking Any Food — Principal Cook- 
ing Processes — The Object of each Cooking Process — 
Cooking Utensils — Blending Ingredients — Method 
of Working — Ice Box and Contents — Care of Food 

— Preserving Foods — Concentration — Predigestion 
of Food — Adulteration of Food. 

VII Measubes and Weights 98 

Table of Measures and Weights — Apothecaries 
Weight — Apothecaries Measure — Approximate Meas- 
ures — Metric System — Measures of Volume — • Meas- 
ure of Weight — Table of Equivalents — Table for Pre- 
paring Percentage Solution — Thermometry. 

PAET II 

PEACTICAL APPLICATION OF PEIjSTCIPLES 
OP NUTEITION 

EECIPES 

VIII BEnfEBAGES 109 

Acid Beverages 110 

Recipes 110 



CONTENTS 



XLI 



CHAPTEB 



Albuminous Beverages . 
Recipes .... 
Starchy Beverages . 

Recipes . 
Miscellaneous Beverages 

Tea 

Recipes 
Coflfee . ... 

Recipes . 
Chocolate . . . . 

Recipes ... ... 

Cocoa . 

Recipes 
Special Non-Nutritive Beverages 
Recipes 



IX Animal Foods 

Meat . 

Recipes 
Poultry and Game 

Recipes . 
Fish 

Recipes 
Fish Sauces . 
Recipes 
Shell Fish . . 
Oysters 

Recipes 
Clams 
Recipes . 



Recipes . 

Milk and Milk Products 

Recipes ... . .... 

Sweetbreads ' 

Recipes 

Gelatin . ... 

Recipes .... 204 

Beef Preparations 212 

Beef Juice 212 

Recipes ... 214 



PAGE 

118 
118 
124 
124 
127 
127 
131 
128 
131 
129 
134 
129 
133 
136 
136 

138 
140 
149 
152 
153 
159 
162 
165 
165 
166 
166 
169 
168 
172 
175 
179 
184 
193 
200 
201 
203 



XLII 


CONTENTS 




CHAPTEK 




PAGE 


Beef Tea . 




. . . 213 


Recipes . 


. 


. . 215 


Raw Beef . 




. . 214 


Recipes 




217 


Meat Broths . 




. . . .217 


Recipes . 




. 219 


Meat Jellies 




217 


Recipes 




. . 221 


Soups . 




. 223 


Recipes 




. . . . 223 


Soup Accompaniments 


. . .229 


Recipes 




. . .229 


X Vegetable or Plant Foods 


. . . .231 


Cereals 


. 


. . 233 


Gruels 




. . . 236 


Recipes 




. . . 238 


Breakfast Foods . ... 


. . . 235 


Recipes 




.... 242 


Starchy Jellies 


. . 244 


Recipes . 




... 244 


Macaroni . 




. . 245 



Recipes 245 

Bread . . . . 247 

Recipes 250 

Toast . . .... 255 

Recipes . 256 

Sandwiches . .... ... 258 

Recipes 259 

Crackers and Wafers . 260 

Recipes . . 260 

Vegetables . . .... 261 

Recipes 265 

Vegetable Sauces . . 271 

Recipes ."..... 271 

Salads 272 

Recipes . 274 

Salad Dressings 272 

Recipes 273 



CONTENTS XLiii 

CHAFTEB PAGE 

Fruits 276 

Recipes 279 

Nuts 283 

Fungi and Algae 284 

XI Nutritious Desserts 286 

Hot and Cold Desserts 286 

Soft Custards 287 

Recipes 287 

Baked Custards ... 288 

Recipes 288 

Whips and Souffles 290 

Recipes 291 

Junket 293 

Recipes 293 

Cornstarch Pudding or Blanc Mange 295 

Recipes 295 

Rice Puddings 297 

Recipes 297 

Tapioca .... 300 

Recipes . 300 

Bread Puddings 302 

Recipes 302 

Cracker Puddings 304 

Recipes 304 

Pudding Sauces 305 

Recipes 305 

Frozen Desserts 306 

Ice Cream 306 

Recipes 307 

Sherbet 306 

Recipes 312 

Ices 306 

Recipes 313 

XII Cake 317 

Recipes 318 



XLiv CONTENTS 

PAET III 

HOSPITAL DIETAEIES — DIET IN" DISEASE 

— DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

CHAPTEB PAGE 

XIII Hospital Dietaries . 323 

General Types of Diet Used in Hospitals : — 
Liquid or Fluid Foods — Soft or Semi-Solid Food — 
Solid Food. 

Typical Diets from Vabiotjs Hospitals: — Light 
Diet or Convalescent Diet — Typical Light Diet 

— Milk Diet — Fluid Diet — Soft Diet — Soft Solids 

— Liquid or Farinaceous — Farinaceous Diet — Ni- 
trogenous Diet- — Nutrient Diet — Oxaluric Diet — 
Strict Sugar-free Diet — Fat-free Diet — Salt-free 
Diet — Test Diet — Fish Diet — Broth Diet — Re- 
stricted Diet — Extra Diet — Dietary of the Bellevue 
Hospital, New York, 1910 — Dietary of the Presby- 
terian Hospital, New York, 1910. 

DIET IN DISEASE 

XIV Diet in Fevers and Infectious Diseases .... 331 

Diet in Fever in General — Diet in Convales- 
cence from Fever — Typhoid Fever — Starvation 
Treatment of Typhoid — Liquid Diet in Typhoid — 
Liberal or Generous Diet — Liquid Diet in Typhoid 

— (1) Fluid Diet in Typhoid— (2) Fluid Diet in 
Typhoid — Diet in Convalescence from Typhoid — 
Diet in Typhoid after Two Days of Normal Tempera- 
ture — Diet in Typhoid after Two Weeks of Normal 
Temperature — Typhoid Delicacies — Typhoid Extra 
Diet — Liberal Diet in Typhoid (Frederick C. Shut- 
tuck, M.D.) — Tonsilitis and Quinsy — Diphtheria 

— Pneumonia — Broncho-Pneumonia — Mumps — 
Whooping Cough — Diet in Tuberculosis, Especially 
Pulmonary Consumption. 

XV Diet in Disorders op Nutrition . 35S 

Diet in Diabetes — Diabetic Diet of Bellevue Hospi- 
tal — Diabetic Diet of Presbyterian Hospital — Dia- 



CONTENTS 



XLV 



CHAPTER PAGE 

betic Diet of Massachusetts General Hospital — Strict 
Sugar-free Diabetic Diet — Chronic Diabetes Diet — 
Substitutes for Starch and Sugar — A Diabetic Chart 
(Elliott P. Joslin, M.D.) — Menus for the Diabetic 

— Diet in Lithemia or Excess of Uric Acid — Acute 
Gout — Chronic Gout — Acute Rheumatism — Chronic 
Rheumatism — Diet in Obesity. 

XVI Diet in the Diseases of the Stomach .... 373 

Acute Gastritis — Chronic Gastritis — Ulcer of the 

Stomach — Outline of Diet in Gastric Ulcer ( Max 

Einhorn, M.D.) — Gastric Ulcer Diet — Dr. Hewes's 

Diet, The Lenhartz Diet — The Lenhartz Diet Sheet. 

XVII Diet in Intestinal Diseases 381 

Dyspepsia — Constipation — Diarrhoea — Dysen- 
tery . — Diet for Acute Colitis ( Dysentery ) — Chronic 
Dysentery — Enteric Diet — Special Enteric Diet — 
Liquid Enteric Diet — Appendicitis. 

XVIII Diet in Disease of the Genito-Urinaey System 390 

Acute Bright's Disease — Chronic Bright's Disease 

— Nephritic Diet — Acute Nephritis, Uric Acid 
Gravel — Convulsion in Bright's Disease — Albumi- 



XIX Diet in Miscellaneous Affections . . 395 

Nervous Disorders — Functional Disorders of the 
liiver ( Biliousness ) — Skin Diseases — Heart Dis- 
ease — Dietetic Management of Surgical Cases — 
Diet after laparotomy. Ovariotomy, etc. 



DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

XX Mothekhood .... 401 

Diet in Pregnancy — Vomiting of Pregnancy — 
(Vomiting of Seasickness) — Diet for the Mother 
after L.abor — Diet for a Nursing Mother or Wet 
Nurse. 



XLVi CONTENTS 

CHAPTER . PAGE 

XXI Infant Feeding ... 406 

General Considerations — Breast Feeding — The 
Wet Nurse — Composition of Motlier's Milk — The 
Hygiene of Natural Feeding — Capacity of Babies' 
Stomachs — Schedule for Nursing — Weaning — Arti- 
ficial or Bottle Feeding — Difference Between Human 
and Govt's Milk — General Principles of Milk Modi- 
fications — What Dilution to Use — The Quantity to 
Feed — Laboratory Milk — Home Modification — The 
Nursing Bottle — Formulae for Infant Feeding — Top 
Milk Method (L. Emmett Holt, M.D.) Card for Per- 
centage Feeding of Infants (Maynard Ladd, M.D.) 

— Formulae for Preparing Infant Food from Ster- 
ilized Sugar of Milk — Scheme for Feeding Babies 
(Society of the Lying-in Hospital, New York City) 

— Peptogenic Milk Powder, Modifies Cow's Milk. 

XXII The Feeding op Young Children .... 434 

General Rules for Feeding Young Children — Table 
of Comparison, Food Required by Child and Man — 
Table showing Increase of Calories Required for a 
Growing Child — Dietaries for Young Children 
(Louis Starr, M.D.) — General Principles of Feeding 
Sick Children. 

XXIII Diet for the Adolescent — Diet foe the Sedentary 

— Diet for the Aged . . 442 

Index to Recipes 447 

General Index 465 



PART I 

PEINOIPLES OF NUTRITION AND FOOD 
PREPARATIONS 



4 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

ditions from the fuel and water (and air) which it consumes, 
so the living body derives its energy from the food, water 
and air upon which it subsists. 

Definition of Food. Poods are substances which when 
taken into the body supply the necessary elements for pro- 
moting its growth and repairing its waste ; and furnish it with 
material from which to produce heat and internal or external 
work. Substances that are unable to assist in either of these 
ways are called food accessories or food adjuncts. 

Food Accessories or Food Adjuncts. These are substances 
which, although unable to fulfill the definition of foods, find 
an extensive use in the dietary, for a variety of reasons. 
They give flavor to food, increase the appetite, stimulate 
secretion, and thus aid the digestive functions. They com- 
prise two classes, viz., condiments and beverages. 

Source of Food. Food occurs in the mineral, plant and 
animal kingdoms. It occurs in all physical forms of matter 
— gases, liquids and solids. Gases are mentioned because 
oxygen is a true food and metabolized to a certain degree, 
being always present in the blood and tissues in loose chem- 
ical combination. 

Composition of the Body. The human body contains many 
chemical elements in varying amounts. 

Nitrogen, carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen are the four pres- 
ent in largest proportion; iron, phosphorus, calcium, mag- 
nesium, potassium, sodium, sulphur, chlorin, iodin, also have 
important offices to perform. 

Composition of Food. Poods must contain the same ele- 
ments found in the body; thus it is that they are able to 
build and maintain the body structure. But no " one food " 
contains all these elements in proper proportions for all per- 
sons; therefore, it is by combinations of the various food 
stuffs that we produce a suitable diet. These elements must 
further be supplied in forms which the body can use. It 
cannot utilize carbon in the form of coal, for example, but 
must have it combined in special ways with hydrogen and 
oxygen. These combinations of elements or "Pood Com- 



CLASSIFICATION OF FOOD 5 

pounds " found in nature (sometimes called " alimentary " 
or "food principles" and "food stuffs"), are usually classi- 
fied as proteins, fats, carbohydrates, mineral matter (or salts) 
and water. 

Food, as it is taken into the body still differs in composi- 
tion from the material utilized by the tissues in growth, 
repair of waste, and production of energy in the form of work 
or heat. It must be finally prepared for the use of the body 
by the processes involved in Digestion. 

CIASSIFICATION OF FOOD 

Foods may be classified in various ways: 

a. According to Source, as animal, vegetable, and mineral 
(including oxygen for combustion). 

b. According to Chemical Composition, as organic and in- 
organic, the organic foods being further subdivided into ni- 
trogenous and non-nitrogenous substances. 

e. According to Function, as tissue-formers, or body-build- 
ers; energy (or work and heat) producers; and regulators of 
body processes. 



Organic 



Classification according to Chemical Composition 
' Nitrogenous — Proteins 

r Carbohydrates J 
Non-nitrogenous j [starches 

(Mineral Matter 
Water 

Classification according to Function 

I Proteins 
Mineral Matter 
Water 

{Carbohydrates 
Fats 
Proteins 



6 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

T. 1 J. J! Tj J Ti f Mineral Matter 

Regulators of Body Processes \ vrr i 

Important Sources of Proteins: 

Milk, eggs, meat, fish, cheese, beans, peas, lentils, some nuts 
and cereals. 
Important Sources of Fats: 

Olive oil, butter, cream, bacon and other fat meat, and nuts. 

Important Sources of Carbohydrates: 

Cereals, and cereal products; sago, tapioca; starchy veg- 
etables, such as potatoes ; sugar, honey, sweet dried fruits. 
Important Sources of Mineral Matter: 

a. Available in organic form: 

Nitrogen, — supplied by protein. 

Phosphorus, — in milk and cream, eggs (especially 

the yolk), meat, whole wheat, oatmeal, dried peas 

and beans. 
Iron, — in eggs (especially the yolk), meat, whole 

wheat, oatmeal, dried and fresh peas and beans,. 

spinach, raisins and prunes. 

b. Available in organic or inorganic form : 

Calcium, in milk, dried beans and peas, oranges, 
spinach, turnips ; other fresh fruits and vegetables, 
and whole grains. 

Magnesium, potassium, iodin, etc. — likely to be 
adequately supplied if the other ash constituents 
are provided for. The addition of sodium chloride 
(common salt) as a condiment usually supplies a 
surplus of sodium and chlorin. 

Special Functions of each Food Principle: 

Proteins — Supply energy, nitrogen, sulphur, and some- 
times phosphorus. 

Fats — Supply energy in the most concentrated form. 

Carbohydrates — Supply energy in the form most econom- 
ical to the body. 

Mineral Matter — Supplies building material, except nitro- 
gen and sulphur, and helps to regulate body processes. 



CONDITIONS FOB PEBFECT NUTBITION t 

Water — Supplies building material (forming 60 per cent, 
of the body), and helps to regulate body processes. 

CONDITIONS rOR PEKFECT NUTRITION 

For the proper support of the human system, a combina- 
tion of nitrogenous and non-nitrogenous foods is essential, 
with water to dissolve them and oxygen to burn them. Al- 
though air is not classified as a food it is essential to effect 
the chemical changes needful for assimilation. " About two 
thousand cubic feet of air need to pass through the lungs of 
an adult daily in order to furnish oxygen in sufficient quan- 
tity. If there is lack in this most important food-stuff (and 
nothing else can take its place), starvation as truly results 
as if other food were withheld, for the changes required for 
nutrition cannot take place, and furthermore incomplete de- 
composition occurs, which may result in more or less poison- 
ous products. 

" Fresh air — air with its quota of oxygen — is, then, a 
prime requirement in nutrition." — Ellen H. Eichards. 

A Perfect Food. 1. " A perfect food must contain all the 
nutritive elements of the body : Proteins, carbohydrates, fats, 
minerals, and water. 

2. It must contain these in their proper proportions. 

3. It must contain in a moderate compass the total amount 
required daily. 

4. The nutritive elements must be capable of easy absorp- 
tion, and yet leave a certain bulk of unabsorbed matter to 
act as intestinal ballast. It must be obtainable at a mod- 
erate cost." — Hutchinson. 

A Mixed Diet therefore is necessary, as no "one food" 
fulfills all the requirements of a "perfect food." A mixed 
diet must be taken whereby one food may be used to sup- 
plement what is lacking in another. The foods best for 
health are those best fitted to the needs of the individual. 
The cheapest food is that which furnishes the largest amount 
of nutriment at the least cost. The best food is that which 
is both healthful and cheapest. 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



NITROGENOUS FOODS 



Nitrogenous substances are those which contain nitrogen, 
an element which is essential to the life of every cell. 

Classification. In older classifications, the term Protein 
is used to include all food substances containing nitrogen, 
this class being further subdivided into (1) Proteids, those 
proteins which can alone maintain the nitrogen equilibrium 
of the body; (3) Albuminoids or Gelatinoids, those which 
contain nitrogen in a form which can replace other proteins 
only to a limited extent; (3) Extractives, containing nitro- 
gen in a form unable to make good the body loss of nitrogen. 
These extractives are properly food accessories. 

Proteins are now defined as compounds of carbon, hydrogen, 
oxygen, nitrogen, sulphur, and sometimes phosphorus, which 
contain nitrogen in a form which the body can use. They are 
variously classified, but a simple division is one into (1) 
Simple Proteins, (2) Compound Proteins, and (3) Albumi- 
noids. Examples of simple proteins are albumins, globulins, 
and certain alcohol-soluble proteins found in cereals, as the 
gliadin of wheat ; of compound proteins, the nucleo-protein of 
organs consisting chiefly of cells, as pancreas or sweetbread, 
and the haemoglobin of the blood; of albuminoids, the fa- 
miliar product, gelatin, formed from the collagen of connec- 
tive tissue r 



Proteins 



Simple 



Albumins, v. g 

Olobulins, e. g 

.Alcohol-soluble proteins e. g. 



White of egg. 
Casein of milk. 
Myosin of muscle. 
Fibrin of blood. 
Gluten of -wheat. 
,Legumiu of legumes. 
. In grains. 
fGliadin of wheat. 



Lzein of maize. 
TNucleo-protein, e. g. in liver and sweetbread. 
LHramoglobin of blood. 
. Albuminoid Collagen of connective tissue. 



Compound 



NITROGENOUS FOODS 9 

Source. The proteins of the diet are derived both from the 
animal and vegetable kingdoms. The principal animal pro- 
teins are obtained from meats, fish, eggs, and milk. Meat 
and fish proteins are derived principally from the muscles; 
egg proteins from both the white and yolk; milk proteins 
chiefly from the casein, which forms the main constituent of 
cheese and curds. Animal foods are much richer in protein 
than plant foods. The only substances of vegetable origin 
which can compare with animal nutrients in this respect are 
the legumes (peas, beans, lentils, peanuts, etc.), and certain 
nuts, such as almonds, pine nuts, cocoa beans (the source of 
cocoa and chocolate). The entire grain of some cereals pos- 
sesses a high percentage of protein; this is particularly true 
of so-called hard wheat, and in lesser degree of oats, Indian 
corn, rye, and barley. As a rule, flour and meal are about 
half as rich in protein as the dried grains from which they 
are prepared, though oatmeal and Indian meal lose but lit- 
tle through milling. 

Animal foods are usually digested with ease, and require 
less cooking and less mastication to insure good utilization; 
in the form of meat, they are liked because of their high 
flavor and stimulating properties. In vegetable foods, on 
account of the presence of cellulose, some of the protein is 
likely to escape digestion and absorption. For the invalid 
or convalescent, certain animal foods are preferred as a 
source of protein, as being more concentrated, and easier of 
digestion. Of ordinary vegetable food rich in protein, bread, 
either stale and dry, or thoroughly toasted, is perhaps the 
most suitable for invalids. Starchy roots and tubers (as 
potatoes), and green vegetables and fruits, though valuable 
for other dietetic reasons, are very poor in protein. 

Animal Proteins. The albumins in the ordinary diet are 
derived chiefly from animal foods. The white of egg is a 
very pure form of this compound, and eggs constitute one 
of the best sources of nitrogen in a compact and assimilable 
form, especially convenient as they are readily taken raw. 

Casein, the chief protein of milk, represents the main 



10 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

source of this food element for infants and the sick. One 
quart of milk contains as much protein as six ounces of lean 
beeksteak, and is more valuable because of its rich supply 
of mineral matter, to say nothing of the fat and carbohydrate 
present. 

Myosin is the typical protein in muscle tissue. After death 
it changes to a form called syntonin. 

Fibrin and Serum Albumin, found in blood, occur to a 
slight extent along with myosin in meat. 

The only albuminoid which requires consideration here is 
collagen, a protein found in all connective tissues, including 
the modified forms, such as cartilage and bone. This sub- 
stance is changed by boiling to gelatin. This is further al- 
tered by the gastric juice to gelatoses and gelatin-peptones, 
and finally absorbed, but it lacks certain elements found in 
albumins and other proteins, and consequently cannot be re- 
lied upon exclusively as a source of nitrogen for the body. 
It can replace about two-thirds of the ordinary protein re- 
quirement. 

Vegetable Proteins. These are chiefly globulins. The 
main representatives of the albumins in vegetable food are 
gluten of wheat and legumin of the legumes. A number of 
alcohol-soluble proteins occur, such as gliadin in wheat and 
zein in Indian corn. Vegetables contain a large number of 
nitrogenous substances which are not proteins. Thus while 
mushrooms contain much nitrogen, little of the latter is in a 
form which can be absorbed. 

Function of Proteins. Proteins are both body-builders and 
energy-producers, but are little utilized as fuel when carbo- 
hydrates and fats are well represented in the diet. As a fuel, 
they tend to burn up rapidly, and hence are not economical, 
and since in health only a small proportion of nitrogen is 
used from day to day, the part not needed being promptly 
excreted, it is not advantageous to have the diet largely com- 
posed of this food principle. During the periods of rapid 
growth, in the prenatal, infantile and adolescent states, when 
the body is forming new tissue at an unusual rate, there must 



NITROGENOUS FOODS 11 

be a liberal nitrogen supply. This is also true in conva^ 
lescence from wasting disease, and sometimes after excessive 
physical exertion, when the muscle tissue is actually increas- 
ing. In health, when fats and carbohydrates are liberally 
provided, so that the protein is not required as fuel, a com- 
paratively small amount is needed for repair of tissue. This 
is especially true in old age. 

Nitrogenous Extractives. Substances found in muscle 
juice, consisting chiefly of ereatin, creatinin, and purins 
(uric acid and related substances), are valuable only as stim- 
ulants. They give sapidity to meats and hence are appetiz- 
ing ; possess the power of stimulating the flow of gastric juice, 
and by their influence on the nervous system, gently in- 
crease the activity of the heart. For this reason, beef tea, 
beef extracts, etc., are of value to the sick. 

CooMng of Protein. Of all the proteins, "Albumin," of 
which there are many varieties, is the most important and 
needs most care in the cooking to make it easily digested. 

The majority of albumins are soluble in cold water and 
vegetable acids; they are coagulated by heat, mineral acids 
and alcohol. The cooking of albumin should be governed by 
these facts. 

" As the white of the egg is nearly pure albumin it will 
serve as an excellent illustration for demonstrating the effect 
of heat on the principal constituent of albuminous foods." 

Effect of Temperature or Test for CooJcing Albumin 
Into a test tube put some white of egg, place in a sauce pan 

of cold water, heat gradually, and observe all changes. 

1. Eaw white of egg is a sticky, clear, pale straw-colored 

liquid, and readily digested. 

3. When water reaches the temperature 134° P. white 

streaks will be seen in a semi-solid white substance which is 

found to be readily digested. 

3. When water reaches the temperature 160° F. the egg 
will be firm, soft, and jelly-like, and is readily digested. 

4. When water reaches 313° F. the egg will be tough white 
jelly and less readily digested. 



12 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

5. When egg is heated to 300° P. or higher (for example 
put the test tube directly over flame), the egg will almost 
immediately become hard and tenacious. 

These albumin tests demonstrate that albuminous foods 
are most tender and readily digested when cooked at a low 
temperature but when coagulated at too high a temperature 
are tough and indigestible. 

Eeheated albuminous foods are less digestible than freshly 
cooked because the albumin is much hardened by the second 
cooking. The principal foods requiring care in preparation 
because of the albumin are eggs, meat, and fish. These will 
be considered further under their separate headings. 

NON-NITROGENOTTS FOODS 

CARBOHYDRATES (SUGAR AND STARCH): PATS 
Strictly speaking, any food substance not protein, even 
water and mineral water, is non-nitrogenous; but in the re- 
stricted sense of food as a source of energy, it is applied to 
two classes of organic compounds which contain no nitrogen, 
viz., carbohydrates and fats. 

CARBOHYDRATES 

Definition. Carbohydrates are food substances which eon- 
tain carbon, hydrogen and oxygen. The oxygen and hydro- 
gen are usually present in proportion to form the water mole- 
cule (HjO). These substances have therefore been termed 
carbohydrates. A carbohydrate may be defined as a simple 
sugar, or a substance which yields simple sugar after hy- 
drolysis. 

Source. Carbohydrates come from the vegetable kingdom 
almost entirely. There are a few exceptions, such as glycogen 
and milk sugar. They abound throughout the plant world, 
but especially in grains, roots, tubers, or wherever the plant 
stores its reserves. 

Function. Carbohydrates are burned up in the body to 
produce energy in the form of work or heat. All that is 
taken in excess of immediate need is stored, first as glycogen 



NON-NITROGENOUS FOODS 



13 



or " animal starch " in the liver and muscles ; and when the 
capacity to store glycogen is exhausted, in the form of fat. 
The fuel value of fat is two and one-fourth times that of 
sugars and starches, so that this is a very convenient form 
of storage of surplus carbohydrate. 

The Most Important Energy Producing Foods are cereals, 
potatoes, tapioca, sago, fats, sugar and honey. 

Classification. Carbohydrates include the monosaccharides^ 
as typified in grape sugar; the disaccharides, as typified in 
cane sugar, and polysaccharides, including starch, dextrin, 
gums, cellulose and glycogen: 



(Grape Sugar (Dextrose or Glucose) 
Fruit Sugar (Levulose) 
(A miiture of dextrose and levulose is 
called Invert Sugar. Honey is the 
best example in nature) 



Carbohydrates 



Disaccharides 
CisHazOu 



r Cane Sugar 
Beet Sugar 

\ Maple Sugar 
Milk Sugar 

L Malt Sugar 



- Sucrose 

(Lactose) 
(Maltose) 



r Starch 
Polysaccharides \ ^f-^-^ 
CeHioOs I Qmj,g 

I Cellulose 



Sugar 
Defi,nition. Sugars are carbohydrates which are soluble, 
have a more or less sweet taste and many minor qualities 
which distinguish them from the starches. The disaccharides 
yield monosaccharides under the influence of enzymes or on 
boiling with dilute acids. When heated to a high tempera- 
ture sugars form caramel. In dietetics we are especially 
concerned with grape sugar (dextrose), milk sugar (lactose) 
and cane sugar (sucrose). 

DEXTROSE OR GRAPE SUGAR (GLUCOSE) 

Description. Dextrose occurs as a syrup, rarely in crystal- 
line form. It is much less sweet than cane sugar. Other 
sugars have to be changed to this form before the body can 
use them. 



14 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

Sources. It is found throughout the vegetable kingdom, 
and especially in fruits. A dried fig contains 65 per cent, 
of grape sugar. In nature it is formed from starch and so 
it may be produced in art by treating starch with acids. It 
is prepared on a large scale from cornstarch. 

Uses as Food. Dextrose or grape sugar is a fuel food in 
one of its most readily absorbed forms. It does not require 
digestion because this is the form to which carbohydrates of 
all kinds must be changed before they can be of use to the 
body. Taken in large quantities it is liable to ferment, or 
flood the system with sugar too rapidly, but as naturally 
present in sweet fruits, or in its artificial form in small 
quantities along with other food-stufEs, it is a very economical 
source of energy. 

LACTOSE 

Milh Sugar or Lactose. This sugar is found almost ex- 
clusively in milk, from which it is commercially prepared. It 
has little sweetness and does not readily ferment. Until re- 
cently it has entered but little into practical dietetics, save 
in case of infants or others subsisting wholly or partly on 
milk, but its ease of assimilation and its mild flavor, make 
it frequently a valuable source of energy in disease. 

CANE SUGAR 

Pure cane sugar is chemically the same as beet-sugar. 
Maple sugar would not be different from common sugar, if 
it were sufficiently purified to remove the flavoring matter. 

Description. Cane sugar occurs naturally in crystals, some 
of which are extremely hard (rock candy) ; and in syrups, one 
of which is molasses. 

Sources, etc. Cane sugar is found in the sap or juices of 
a variety of plants, including sugar cane, the beet, the sugar 
maple, etc. Whether obtained by collecting sap or crushing, 
etc., it is always at first a syrup and all solid sugar is obtained 
from these juices by various methods. 

Uses as Food. Cane sugar enters into the dietary very 
largely, pure for table use, and in confectionery, or in com- 



NON-NITROGENOUS FOODS 15 

binations with other foods in cookery. It is a very valuable 
source of energy, but must be used with discretion, because 
in too large amounts or in too concentrated form it is irri- 
tating to the stomach and liable to ferment, and also be- 
cause being quickly absorbed, it satisfies the appetite before 
the need for food has been entirely met, or blunts it so that 
other foods become distasteful. A pound of sugar and a 
pound of pure cornstarch are nearly equal in energy value. 
For children, it is much better to give sugar in the form of 
sweet fruits, because they are then supplied with valuable 
mineral salts which are entirely lacking in pure sugar. 

Substitute for Sugars. Since sugar is used not only as a 
fuel food but as a condiment, attempts have been made to 
secure a substitute for use in cases where carbohydrate is 
limited or denied. The best known of these is " saccharin " 
or " sweetina," a crystalline coal-tar product. It is many 
times sweeter than sugar, but it has no food value. 

Use of Sugar in Practical Dietetics. Sugar taken in small 
quantities will replace starch weight for weight, and be more 
easily and quickly absorbed. The amount of sugar which 
can be taken in place of other fuel food depends on the 
amount of exercise and the peculiarities of the individual. 
An excess of sweets may cause nausea and always blunts the 
appetite, thus cutting down the consumption of other foods. 
If a very large amount be taken, sugar will appear in the 
urine. The maximum advisable daily allowance of sugar is 
considered to be about four ounces. 

Sugar should be avoided in gastric disorders, such dis- 
turbances of nutrition as gout, rheumatism, and especially 
diabetes. Being a highly concentrated food, it should be 
avoided in obesity. 

Uses of Sugar in Cookery. Glucose is not so sweet as cane 
sugar, so that when used for sweetening other foods a larger 
amount must be taken. In cooking fruits, sugar should be 
added when the process is nearly complete, as it tends to 
harden the fruit tissues. By boiling for a long time or in 
the presence of acids (whether naturally in the fruit or added 



16 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

to it) cane sugar is changed to invert sugar, which is a 
mixture of equal parts of dextrose and levulose. While dex- 
trose is not so sweet as cane sugar, levulose is very much 
sweeter, so that the resulting product has a peculiar, pene- 
trating sweetness that is not so well liked as the cane sugar 
flavor. This is another reason for reserving the sugar till 
the end of the cooking process. 

Test for Sugar. A simple test for sugar, irrespective of 
whether it is glucose or cane sugar, consists in adding a little 
33 per cent, solution of caustic soda to the suspected solution, 
and boiling. If sugar is present the solution turns brown. 

The chief test for glucose or grape sugar alone is Fehling's. 
A test solution should be on hand, and may be obtained at any 
apothecaries. It should be obtained fresh. The test is based 
on the fact that glucose "reduces" salts of copper, i. e., by 
depriving them of some of their oxygen, an insoluble oxide 
of copper is precipitated. The test solution contains sulphate 
of copper, caustic potash and tartrate of sodium and potas- 
sium. To make the test, add to a portion of the test solution 
a few drops of the suspected solution in a test tube and boil. 
If a red substance precipitates, glucose is present. The sole 
use of this test for the nurse will probably be in connection 
with diabetes, when the nurse makes the test at the request of 
the medical attendant. In all other tests for sugar, the first 
test mentioned above will suffice, and would also suffice for dia- 
betic urine were it not for the fact that a shamming patient 
could deceive the nurse by placing common sugar in her urine. 

Starch and Other f olysaccharides 

Starchy foods form a large part of the ordinary diet of 
man; they are the chief source of the carbohydrates. Starch, 
unlike sugar, is insoluble but may be made to pass into a 
soluble form by dry-heating at high temperature, or by cer- 
tain digestive ferments. The first bodies formed are known 
as dextrins, but ultimately a sugar (maltose) is produced. 
The alimentary starches may be said to comprise starch 



NON-NITROGENOUS FOODS 17 

proper; dextrins or soluble starches; and glycogen or animal 
starch, which is stored up in the liver. 

Source. Starch occurs widely in the vegetable kingdom, 
along with grape sugar. It is found in largest amounts in 
grains, seeds, roots and tubers. It is prepared for the market 
chiefly by mechanical means, being washed out of the finely 
cut vegetable substances. Its main commercial source is 
probably wheat, but it is also made largely from potatoes, rice, 
arrow-root, etc. 

Description. In its pure state, i. e., when isolated from 
proteins, cellulose, gum, etc., starch is a shining white pow- 
der having a distinctive quality to the touch. Under the 
microscope it is found to consist of granules, which are in- 
soluble in cold water. When heated to a high temperature, 
these granules undergo a certain amount of transforma- 
tion into soluble starch and dextrin. Boiling the starch 
in water has the same results. The action of the group 
of ferments known as diastases is to transform starch suc- 
cessively into soluble starch, dextrin, and finally maltose 
(malt sugar). 

Uses as Food. Starch is seldom used pure in dietaries, but 
with other food principles in the form of various flours and 
bread made from them,' or as breakfast cereals, legumes, po- 
tatoes, etc. The breads baked from wheat flour are among 
the most widely distributed foods. 

Other Polysaccharides. Aside from starch and sugar the 
polysaccharides contribute but little to dietetic uses. Cellu- 
lose, the framework of plants, constitutes the largest propor- 
tion of their bulk. It is the principal part of the so-called 
" indigestible residue " of digestion ; and hence the amount 
of the residue varies greatly with the nature of the food 
eaten. "Without nutritive value, it is still believed to be of 
service as a stimulant to intestinal peristalsis, by acting as 
a gentle mechanical irritant; by helping to retain moisture 
and keep the feces soft; and by giving such bulk that the 
intestinal muscles can act to good advantage. When attacked 
by bacteria, it forms acids which are valuable checks to in- 



18 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

testinal putrefaction. Unless it is desirable for some special 
reason to relieve the digestive tract of all work, a certain 
amount of cellulose should be included in the diet. In con- 
stipation the addition of some non-irritating form, as agar- 
agar has proved a successful therapeutic measure. 

Gums, taken incidentally into the body, represent little or 
no nutritive value, and like cellulose act as " ballast." 

Principles of Cooking Starch. The principles involved in 
the cooking of starch are of two types — chemical and me- 
chanical. 

Chemical Principles. Since raw starch is digestible only 
to a slight degree, it is essential to perfect digestion that 
starchy foods be cooked. 

In the presence of moisture, starch is made soluble at the 
temperature of boiling water, i. e., 313° F. By long boiling, 
this soluble starch can be converted into dextrin, a still more 
easily digested form than soluble starch. This principle is 
applied in the making of gruels, especially for invalids and 
infants. 

By dry heat, at a temperature considerably above 313° F. 
(300° F.-400° P.) starch can be converted quite readily to 
dextrin. This principle is applied in making toast. Some 
of the starch is further changed to caramel, giving a char- 
acteristic flavor to the crust of bread, toast, etc. 

Mechanical Principles. When foods composed almost en- 
tirely of pure starch, such as flour, cornstarch, etc., are to 
be cooked with a liquid, care must be taken to prevent the 
formation of lumps, for these are not only unsightly, but con- 
sist of an outer layer of soluble starch surrounding a center 
of unchanged material and preventing its being made di- 
gestible. 

There are three methods of avoiding lumps : — 

1. By mixing the starch gradually with a small portion 
of cold water, so that a smooth fluid mass is 
formed, before adding the boiling liquid. This 
method is useful in making gruels, etc. 



NON-NITROGENOUS FOODS 19 ■ 

2. By mixing with fat before adding liquid. The melt- 

ing fat separates the starch granules. At least as 
much fat as starch must be used. The liquid is 
preferably added cold, and all at once. If added 
hot, it must be stirred in very gradually. This 
method is employed in making gravies, sauces, etc. 

3. By mixing with sugar. The melting sugar serves 

to separate the starch grains. This is practicable 
only when the sugar is greater in amount than the 
starch, and the liquid must be added gradually. 
This method is applied in the case of desserts, such 
as cornstarch pudding. 

When foods consisting of a mixture of starch and cellulose, 
as cereal breakfast foods, are to be cooked, it is necessary to 
soften and break up the cellulose to enable the digestive juices 
to reach the starch. This necessitates long cooking at a 
temperature near the boiling point. The longer such a cereal 
product is cooked, the easier of digestion it becomes. Hence 
it is an excellent rule to cook such foods for infants and others 
of feeble digestive powers, twice as long as is commonly recom- 
mended. 

Eeheating of starchy foods, therefore, tends to increase 
their digestibility. Zwieback (or twice-baked bread) is more 
digestible, for example, than fresh bread. 

Test for Starch. Starch is colored blue by iodin. Hence 
it is easy to detect its presence in any food. To make the 
test, a small portion of the material should be placed in a 
test tube, boiled with a little water, cooled, and two or three 
drops of dilute tincture of iodin added. If starch is present, 
the blue color will immediately appear. Dextrin gives a port- 
wine color with iodin, so that if any of this substance be 
present, the color is modified, becoming more or less purplish, 
or purple-red. 

PATS AND OILS 

Definition. Fats are food-stuffs having the same ultimate 
chemical composition as carbohydrates; i. e., consisting of 



30 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

carbon, hydrogen and oxygen, but the latter element is pres- 
ent in less proportion than in carbohydrates. Fats were 
formerly spoken of as hydrocarbons, but this term is now 
reserved for substa,nces which contain no oxygen at all, such 
as benzine. 

Description. True fats, whether solid or oily, are chem- 
ically compounds of fatty acids with glycerine, and differ 
among themselves according to the particular fatty acids they 
contain. These commonly .comprise stearic, palmitic and 
oleic acids. The stearates or combinations of stearic acid 
with glycerine (also generally spoken of as stearins) are solid 
fats as are also palmitates or palmitins. The oleates or oleins 
on the other hand are fluid at ordinary temperatures. It 
is therefore evident that solid fats contain much more stearin 
or palmitin than olein, while fat oils consist chiefly of olein. 
Stearin is found only in fat of animal origin. Animal fats 
are therefore a mixture of all three classes, while vegetable 
fats consist of mixtures of palmitins and oleins. Suet and 
tallow owe their firmness largely to the amount of stearin 
present, while lard owes its softness to the amount of olein 
present. Butter consists largely of palmitin. The most 
prominent of the animal fats are butter, cream, lard, suet, 
tallow, butterine, oleomargarine and cod-liver oil. The veg- 
etable oils are obtained from fruits and nuts (olive, cotton- 
seed, peanut, cocoanut, cocoa bean and almond). Vegetable 
oils and the liver oil of fish are composed chiefly of olein. 
Certain dietetic substances not usually thought of as fatty, 
contain much oil. Some of these are yolks of eggs, Indian 
corn and nearly all nuts except chestnuts. Artificial products 
like butterine are described elsewhere. They are often pre- 
ferred to butter because their melting point is lowered by the 
addition of suet or tallow (beef -drippings) so that they keep 
better in warm weather. 

Lecithin is a substance usually classed with fats and oils. 
Besides fatty acids it contains phosphorus. It is a necessary 
constituent of every living cell and is especially plentiful in 
the nervous tissues. At present it is used to a considerable 



NON-NITROGENOUS FOODS 31 

extent in medicine in the belief that it is of value as a food- 
drug and reconstituent. It is prepared from the j'olk of egg 
and from brain substance. Feeding yolks of eggs is usually 
as advantageous and cheaper. 

Volatile Oils. These, as already stated, have little in com- 
mon with true oils. They stain paper only temporarily, 
yihxle a fat stain is permanent. They vary much among 
themselves in composition and agree chiefly in their tendency 
to disappear by evaporation; and their odor, taste and pun- 
gency. A few of them are used in diet for flavoring. The 
oil of bergamot is obtained from orange peel, oil of lemon 
from lemon peel, etc. The act of cooking tends to volatilize 
them, so that such flavoring should be added at the last mo- 
ment. 

Sources of Fat in the Diet. The chief sources of fat in the 
diet are milk (yielding cream and butter), olive oil, meat 
fats (especially lard, bacon and salt pork, beef suet and drip- 
pings), and oily nuts. 

Cheap Forms of Fat. Butter, cream, olive oil, lard, etc., 
are all subject to adulteration with cheaper fats, but aside 
from the fraud in charging a high price there is a legitimate 
industry for making cheaper products representing these 
articles. Thus skim milk has its lost cream restored by a 
homogenized meat fat containing some butter. A substitute 
for butter is produced from animal fats and sold under special 
names, etc. The industry is yet in its infancy, although half 
a century old. The more expensive fats are prized for their 
flavor, but the cheaper fats carefully refined have also a high 
nutritive value. 

Function. Fats are burned up in the body and produce 
energy in the form of work or heat. According to Dr. W. 
Gilman Thompson, the chief uses of fats are as follows: 

1. To furnish energy for the development of heat. 

2. To supply force. 

3. To serve as covering and protection in the body. 

4. To make more plastic various structures of the body and give 
rotundity to the form. 



22 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

5. To spare the tissues from disintegration; for, although their 
combustion, in the body results largely in the production of heat, 
they also take to some extent in tissue formation. 

6. To serve for storage of energy. 

Source of Body Fat. Twenty per cent, of the normal 
weight of man is fat. It is derived mainly from fatty foods 
and carbohydrates. Proteins are transformed into fat only to 
a very limited degree. It is most readily produced from car- 
bohydrates, or a mixture of carbohydrates and fats. 

Principles of Coohing. Fats are more digestible cold than 
hot, because hot fat tends to coat and intimately penetrate 
the food with which it is cooked or eaten, and as this coating 
is not dissolved by the digestive juices of the mouth or 
stomach, little or no digestion of carbohydrate and protein 
can take place in either of these places under such circum- 
stances. Heating fat to a high temperature also changes its 
chemical nature, often producing irritating substances which 
interfere with digestion. For such reasons fried food should 
never be given to invalids. 

Digestibility. The majority of fats are not very easily di- 
gested, consequently are not tolerated by those suffering from 
indigestion or by patients acutely ill-; their use should be 
limited to finely divided forms, as in milk or yolk of egg; 
it is sometimes even necessary to reduce the fat in milk by 
skimming oil the cream, or to limit the amount of yolk of 
egg, inasmuch as 30 per cent, of the yolk is fat. Other 
forms of fat valuable in the invalid's dietary are butter, cod- 
liver oil, and fat bacon cooked crisp. All fats, except limited 
quantities of butter and cream, should be forbidden in acute 
diseases of the stomach, intestines and liver, and in most of 
the chronic affections. Their uses should be limited also in 
the presence of gall stones. 

Patty foods should be prescribed for children with rickets 
and for all who have diabetes. In the latter disease they 
partly replace the carbohydrates which cannot be used. Pat 
may be prescribed with benefit in chronic wasting disease, 
such as tuberculosis, and during convalescence from severe 



WATER 23 

acute disease. The most agreeable and digestible forms 
should be given. At first a small portion only should be 
taken, and the quantity increased in proportion to a patient's 
willingness to accept it. In a general way fats and oils are 
laxative; consequently useful in case of constipation and 
equally harmful where there is a tendency to diarrhoea. 

Comparative Value of Fat and Carbohydrates as Fuel Foods. 
Fats and carbohydrates serve the same purpose in the body, 
in that they furnish energy. Pats are not as easily digested 
as carbohydrates, but weight for weight they furnish two and 
one-fourth times as much energy. 

Tests for Fats. Fats are readily tested with paper; if 
they are present in a given substance a permanent grease- 
spot appears. If to a suspected substance a little solution of 
caustic soda is added a white precipitate forms, representing 
a hard soda soap. 

WATER 

Composition and Properties. Water is a compound of hy- 
drogen and oxygen, consisting of two parts by volume of 
oxygen to one of hydrogen. Absolutely pure water is color- 
less, odorless, and tasteless, but such water is not found in 
nature, owing to its great solvent power, which causes it to 
dissolve substances with which it comes in contact. Water 
ordinarily, therefore, contains varying quantities of mineral 
and organic matter, including gases. To these substances in 
solution the characteristic flavor is due. Water from which 
the air has been expelled by long standing in a warm place, 
or by boiling, has a " flat " taste. 

Water freezes at 33° F. On heating, the ice melts, and 
we may have ice water with a temperature of 33° F. When 
this water is warmed, the air dissolved in it begins to expand, 
and tiny bubbles appear, forming first on the sides of the 
vessel, and tending to rise to the surface. If the water there 
is not yet warmed, they contract and sink, but finally when 
the water is warm throughout, come to the surface and es- 
cape. After the air is thus expelled, if heating is continued. 



24 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

steam bubbles form in a similar manner. At 185° P., water 
bubbles below the surface, or simmers. "UTien the bubbles 
reach the surface and break, giving off a cloud of steam, the 
boiling point has been reached, 213° F. Except under pres- 
sure, water can then become no hotter. Fast boiling simply 
means rapid evaporations and waste of fuel. 

Source of Water as Food. A considerable source of water 
is food itself. In green vegetables and fruits it constitutes 
as high as 85 per cent.-95 per cent, of the whole substance; in 
potatoes and other starchy vegetables it is present in as large 
amount as 75 per cent. Even in seemingly dry foods, as 
crackers, there may be as much as 5 to 10 per cent. But 
since 60 per cent, of the body itself is composed of water, and 
water loss through the lungs, skin, kidneys, etc., is very con- 
stant, the supply in ordinary diet is not sufficient, and water 
must be added as a beverage. This may be in the form of 
ordinary drinking water, of tea, coffee, or other similar bev- 
erages and of medicinal waters; the latter, however, should 
be considered chiefly under the head of drugs. 

Functions of Water in the Body. Water undergoes no 
chemical change in the body, yet the consideration of it is of 
vital importance. Solution is an essential part of digestion. 
Water bathes the tissues and washes away our waste and ex- 
crementitious matter. As it does not itself undergo any 
chemical alteration it is not susceptible of liberating force, 
consequently is not an energy-producing agent, but contributes 
to chemical changes by supplying a necessary condition for 
their occurrence. 

Dr. Gilman Thompson summarizes the uses of water in the 
body as follows : 

1. It enters into the chemical combination of the tissues. 

2. It forms the chief ingredient of all the fluids of the body and 
maintains their proper degree of dilution. 

3. By moistening various surfaces of the body, such as the mucous 
and serous membranes, it prevents friction and the uncomfortable 
symptoms which might result from their drying. 

4. It furnishes in the blood and lymph a fluid medium by which 



WATER 25 

food may be taken to remote parts of the body and the waste material 
removed, thus promoting rapid tissue changes. 

5. It serves as a distributor of body heat. 

6. It regulates the body temperature by the physical processes of 
absorption and evaporation. 

Professional fasters have shown that one may live for 
weeks without food, but it may readily be demonstrated that 
a warm-blooded animal except in a state of hibernation or 
trance can subsist but a few days without water. 

Food Uses of Water. Water taken in considerable quan- 
tities with meals favors upward metabolism and increases the 
utilization of food. Thirst at meals does not always mean 
a true body demand for water, as it may be due to condiments, 
or to improper mastication of food. Under ordinary circum- 
stances, about three or four pints daily are necessary to make 
up loss of water that is constantly being eliminated through 
the skin, kidneys, lungs and intestines. The quantity ex- 
creted daily varies greatly under special conditions. The de- 
mand for water is much increased by hot weather, and vio- 
lent exercise, and diminished in the bedridden and sedentary. 
Babies, delirious patients, etc., should be fed water, as care- 
fully as other food. 

Classification of Varieties of DrinTcing Waters. The clas- 
sification of water as food is based chiefly on its purity and 
palatability. 

Hard and Soft Water. Water containing calcium (lime) 
or magnesium salts is known as hard water ; and if it contains 
these salts in excess it is unsuited not only for drinking 
but for cooking and bathing, unless purified or softened. As 
only the carbonates can be expelled from the water, the purifi- 
cation is incomplete; chlorides and sulphates remain behind. 
For washing purposes the carbonate of lime may be precipi- 
tated by treating with lye, whereupon it rises to the surface 
and can be skimmed off. By adding soda to cooking water, 
a similar softening is obtained desirable in cooking vegetables, 
as they are toughened by the lime and sodium chloride. 
Finally, for drinking purposes hard water may be subjected 



26 PBACTIOAL DIETETICS 

to prolonged boiling and straining; by this means the car- 
bonic acid is driven oil and the lime is set free. It must be 
remembered that a water not suited for domestic uses may 
still be fit for drinking if not taken in great excess, because 
lime and magnesium are natural ingredients of the body. 

In soft water only a small amount of salts are found and 
as a rule it is more desirable to use for cooking purposes, 
especially in the cooking of legumes or when the object is 
to extract the nourishment or ilavor of food, as in making 
tea or soup, etc. 

Eain water is naturally pure but devoid of any mineral 
content, which is sometimes a disadvantage. It is not very 
palatable. It should be remembered that the first part of a 
rain fall carries down with it dust and impurities from the 
air, but the latter part of a shower furnishes as pure water 
as can be found from any source. 

Spring Water, well water, etc., vary greatly in the amount 
of mineral matter, organic matter, gases, etc., present. In 
many cases the mineral content or gas content is such as to 
confer a medicinal value. In other cases the mineral matter 
is a menace to health. In most ground-water there is organic 
matter which besides being undesirable in itself invites the 
presence of germs, which often threaten the health and safety 
of whole communities. Great care should be taken as to the 
location of a well ; deep spring water and water from artesian 
wells is usually pure. City water is usually filtered through 
sand beds and otherwise purified ; the law requires such waters 
to be frequently analyzed as to purity. 

As water may dissolve the lead from pif»es through which 
it fiows, it should be allowed to run several minutes before 
using if it has not been recently run off (as after standing 
over night) to avoid the risk of lead poisoning. 

Filtered Water is water freed from organic matter of all 
kinds. It should be pure and palatable. But filtered water 
as a rule cannot be depended upon for purity owing to the 
fact that the domestic filters require constant cleansing and 



WATER Sr 

serve to condense the impure organic matter which putrefies 
upon the filter and renders the water passed through them 
fouler in place of purer. Small filters screwed on fau- 
cets are of no value whatever. There are charcoal and 
porcelain filters on the market that are very good, but are 
not effective unless often and thoroughly cleansed. When 
there is the least doubt as to the purity of water it is best to 
boil it. 

Boiled "Water. Water simply sterilized by boiling and 
kept in bottles in a cool place is extensively used when there 
is suspicion as to its purity. It is rather unpalatable. Boil- 
ing renders harmless all the organic impurities and precipi- 
tates salts of lime. It must always be borne in mind that 
typhoid fever, cholera, dysentery and other pestilences are 
largely water-borne diseases, and whenever there is any sus- 
picion that water is contaminated, the most available method 
for purification is boiling. Before filling the bottles, have 
them thoroughly cleansed and rinse with boiling hot water, 
as a few drops of unboiled water would be sufficient to con- 
taminate the whole. To prevent breaking, place bottles in 
pan of warm water before pouring in the boiling water. 

Distilled Water. This is water in its purest state. It is 
said by many authorities to be unsuited for a beverage be- 
cause of total absence of mineral matter and gases, on ac- 
count of which mineral matter is greedily abstracted from 
the walls of the stomach, thereby causing congestion and irri- 
tation. It is generally used for medicinal and chemical pur- 
poses. If employed as a beverage it should be aerated to 
improve the fiavor. 

Carbonated Waters. Ordinary water may be artificially 
charged with carbon dioxid, as soda water, etc. Among the 
most common carbonated waters (naturally charged) are 
Vichy, Apollinaris and Seltzer (effervescing waters) and Po- 
land water (uneffervescing). These are valuable in case of 
fever and to tempt people to drink more water; also in re- 
lieving nausea and vomiting. They are used to advantage 
with acid drinks and to dilute alcoholic liquors. Carbonated 



28 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

water of any kind should not be taken in excess, as such waters 
are apt to produce indigestion, by retarding the action of the 
gastric juice. 

Alkaline Mineral Waters are carbonated (naturally 
charged) and differ from ordinary water in the greater 
amount of gaseous (carbon diosid and sulphuretted hydro- 
gen) and solid matter (sodium chloride, potassium, magne- 
sium, iron, sulphur, etc., etc.), which they contain. Some 
mineral waters have no medicinal value and are simply used 
for quenching thirst; others have purgative, laxative or diu- 
retic effect. The following are a few examples of the latter 
class — Sulphur Spring, Saratoga, Vichy, Hunyadi, London- 
derry, and Lithia Waters. 

The benefit derived from the water cures so often pre- 
scribed is not usually from the water itself but from the 
change, treatment and quantity of water taken. Much bene- 
fit can be derived by following the same treatment at home. 

Temperature of Drinking Water. Luke-warm or tepid 
water (65° to 92° E.) which in theory should be most suited 
for drinking is insipid and even repugnant to most people. 
Hence as a beverage water is either taken warm (93° to 100° 
P.), hot (100° F. and over), cool (65° to 92° P.) or cold (32° 
to 65° P.). The taking of hot water in large quantities has 
been found of benefit for weak digestions and in much chronic . 
invalidism. It acts as a stimulant to gastric digestion; re- 
lieves thirst more quickly than cold water ; is more quickly ab- 
sorbed, and leaves the stomach sooner. Cool water is the nor- 
mal beverage for quenching thirst. Ice water is unsuitable 
for all individuals when overheated, and with meals for dys- 
peptics and those in delicate health. Pever patients, however, 
may take it ad libitum ; for most robust individuals who crave 
it with or without meals it seems to do no great harm, if taken 
slowly and in moderation. Its coldness acts as a natural 
check against overindulgence. It probably slows the move- 
ments of the stomach and as long as the stomach is chilled 
the action of the pepsin is curtailed since this acts best near 



MINERAL MATTER 29 

blood temperature, but the arrest is only temporary. A small 
quantity of crushed ice is known to relieve nausea. 

MINERAL MATTEE 

Function. The mineral matter in the body serves the 
most varied ends. It gives solidity to the bones and teeth; 
its presence in body fluids, such as blood and lymph, im- 
parts to them a certain degree of concentration virhich is abso- 
lutely necessary to the vital processes. Again, minute quan- 
tities of mineral matter are invariably present in living cells 
and are indispensable to their existence. The kind of min- 
eral matter in a given tissue or organ varies according to its 
function. The bones and teeth owe their stability to salts 
of calcium (lime) and magnesium, especially the phosphates. 
The salts which are necessary for the regulation of the body 
fluids comprise potassium, sodium, calcium and magnesium, 
especially in the form of chlorides. The substances essential 
to the active cells as part of their normal structure comprise 
phosphorus, iron, and sulphur, in the form of organic com- 
pounds, along with other salts in small quantities. Phos- 
phorus is found in the nuclei of all cells and is essential for 
growth. The red corpuscles are rich in iron, and the thyroid 
gland cells contain considerable iodin. Nearly all cells have 
traces of sulphur, mainly in the form of protein. 

Amount and Kind of Mineral Matter in the Organism. 
The mineral matter in the body amounts to about 5 or 6 
per cent, by weight, occurring chiefly in the bones. The ele- 
ments needed in the body can all be found in food. 

The chemical elements found in the body comprise hydro- 
gen, oxygen, nitrogen, carbon, phosphorus, sulphur, silicon, 
fluorin, chlorin, iodin, all of the non-metal type ; while of the 
metals are present sodium, potassium, calcium, magnesium, 
iron. Traces of manganese, aluminium, possibly also arsenic, 
are sometimes found. Any substance which exists in the soil 
may find its way into the body. 



30 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

There is more calcium (lime) in the body than any other 
of the metals, while phosphorus exists to a greater extent 
than any other non-metallic element, exclusive of those which 
go to form living matter. These elements predominate thus 
because the bones contain so large an amount of phosphate 
of lime. Lime is also present to a considerable extent as car- 
bonate. Magnesium phosphate comes next in amount. With 
the exception of these three bone compounds, mineral matter 
is present in relatively small quantities. 

The sodium and chlorin occur chiefly in the form of sodium 
chlorid, which is present in all the fluids and solids. The 
chlorin of hydrochloric acid of the gastric juice comes from 
the sodium chlorid. Some sodium is also present as car- 
bonate and phosphate, and these two are found in sufiicient 
amount to give the blood and numerous fluids and secretions 
an alkaline reaction. Potassium occurs mainly in the form 
of potassium phosphate. Muscle-tissue is rich in this salt. 

The sulphur and phosphorus which enter the body in the 
form of protein in animal food are oxidized to sulphuric 
and phosphoric acids and these at once combine with bases 
to form sulphates and phosphates of lime, sodium, etc. 
Sulphates occur to a slight extent only, while as already stated 
phosphates are the most important constituents numerically. 

Source of Mineral Matter in the Food. The mineral mat- 
ter received into the body comes either from the solid food 
or dietetic fluids. With the exception of sodium chlorid 
(common salt) it is not usually added to the diet. Such ad- 
ditions, however, are often prescribed as medicine in states 
of ill health. Thus phosphates and hypophosphites of lime, 
sodium and potassium are used largely in rickets and scrofula. 
Iron is given for impoverished blood. It is better to give 
them in the form of food as far as possible, and care should 
be taken to see that the food is rich in the mineral elements 
needed even if they are at the same time being given in in- 
organic form, for the body can use food salts in many in- 
stances to much greater advantage. 

Animal food in general contains the same mineral con- 



MINERAL MATTER 31 

stituents that are found in corresponding human tissues. 

Cow's milk is rich in calcium and phosphorus in organic 
forms, and contains small amounts of sodium, potassium, 
magnesium, iron and chlorin. 

Eggs contain iron and phosphorus in their most assimilable 
forms, especially in the yolks. 

Meats are lacking in calcium, and while red meats are 
comparatively rich in iron, it is not in as available form as 
in eggs. 

Since the animals used by us as food obtain their mineral 
matter from plants, the richest and most varied supply is com- 
monly found in the vegetable kingdom. Calcium is abundant, 
especially in such vegetables as beans and peas, fresh or dried, 
in other green vegetables, in fruits and the outer parts of 
grains. There is little in polished rice or fi.ne flour. 

Vegetable foods are rich in potassium, which usually oc- 
curs in the form of potassium phosphates. Spinach is richer 
in iron than almost any other plant food; whole wheat, oat- 
meal, peas and beans, raisins and prunes are also valuable 
sources of organic iron. 

Vegetable Acids and their Salts. Some authorities con- 
sider these substances under the head of mineral matter, 
although they have an organic origin and do not pre-exist 
in the soil. They comprise the acids of juicy fruits such as 
the citric acid of the citrus group, the malic acid of apples, 
pears, etc., and the tartaric acid of grapes. They exist partly 
in a state of combination with sodium and potassium. Prom 
a dietetic standpoint they may be placed in the same category 
as the carbonic acid gas and alkaline carbonates of the diet, 
because in the body they quickly become changed to car- 
bonates, and assist in the maintenance of the proper reaction 
of the blood. Various diseases are believed to be due to an 
excess of acid in the diet, or what is the same thing, to a 
diminution of alkali. There is no doubt that substances con- 
taining these bodies and their compounds form a very useful 
and agreeable addition to dietaries. 

Importance of a Proper Supply of Mineral Matter. It 



33 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

was formerly thought that since mineral matter is universally 
present in food and drink, an individual need pay little at- 
tention to this phase of the feeding problem. Before the 
paths of elimination of ash constituents had been studied with 
any care, it was assumed that many such compounds were 
excreted in the feces without having ever been absorbed. 
Since more light has been thrown on the fact that the in- 
testines form the regular path of excretion of certain mineral 
matter, and on the chemical nature of the regulation of body 
processes, there has been greater realization of the fact that 
unless a diet is chosen from a wide range of food materials, 
there is danger of some of these constituents being supplied in 
too small quantities or not at all. This is especially true i^ 
the case of artificially-fed infants and of growing children, 
whose demand for building material is large, but it is not 
negligible even in adults, especially for the proper control 
of the body processes. If care is taken to provide iron, 
phosphorus and calcium in organic forms, there is little dan- 
ger of inadequate supply of the inorganic salts, since these 
are present in the milk, eggs, green vegetables and fruits 
which best supply the elements mentioned above. 

Use of Mineral Matter in Disease. In health, deprivation 
of salt soon leads to great loss of vitality, but in various 
diseases reduction in the consumption of salt is known to be 
beneficial. Thus in such conditions as Bright's Disease, 
sodium chlorid (common salt), appears to be so injurious 
that attempts are made to reduce the quantity ingested. This 
is known as " salt starvation." Epileptics who depend 
upon bromides to prevent their fits can do with much less of 
these substances if their salt is cut down, because bromin up 
to a certain extent displaces the chlorin in such compounds 
as sodium chlorid, and fails to fulfill its purpose in such a 
case. 

Lime-starvation is also practiced under certain circum- 
stances, and some animals can thrive fairly well if calcium is 
replaced by strontium, an allied substance never present nor- 
mally in animal tissues. It is common to find statements that 



FOOD ACCESSORIES OB ADJUNCTS 33 

certain serious disorders like calculus disease, rickets, scurvy, 
tuberculosis, etc., are due primarily to too much or too little 
of some mineral ; but as already stated the real causes must lie 
deeper, although the possibility of such factors must never be 
underrated. Scurvy was once held to be due to too much 
salt, used as preservatives; later it was regarded as due less 
to excess of some salts than absence of others, as potassium. 
"We only know that with a more liberal dietary, including 
vegetables and fruits, it has largely disappeared. Calculus 
disease of certain kinds is more frequent in districts where 
drinking water contains much lime, but most people escape 
the affection. 

Children with rickets often improve on preparations con- 
taining lime and sodium, as also do scrofulous children, but 
it is difficult to show that in such cases the remedies act by 
supplying any one kind of mineral food. The safe way is to 
supply foods containing all, unless some particular condition 
makes the elimination or addition of specific elements neces- 
sary. 

FOOD ACCESSORIES OR ADJUNCTS 

CONDIMENTS — BEVERAGES 
CONDIMENTS 

Condiments are substances not necessarily possessing nutri- 
tive value, which are used to give sapidity to tasteless or un- 
appetizing dishes. To what extent they have any specific 
action on the functions of the body is not clear. They tend 
to increase the flow of saliva, and thus in theory favor the 
digestion of starch. 

Classification. The number of condiments, if we include 
appetizing substances of all kinds, is very large. In some 
countries, olives, a bit of dried herring, in fact, anything pos- 
sessing pungency, may be served before a regular meal. Al- 
coholic beverages need not be considered here. 

Sauces perhaps represent the largest class of condiments 
and the great number and variety of their ingredients give 



34 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

us some idea of the number of individual condiments. They 
are added to food while eating. 

Spices (ginger, cinnamon, nutmeg and cloves), are used 
only in cooking. In this same category may be placed flavor- 
ing extracts. 

Mustard forms a condiment in itself. It is used both in 
preparing food and as an accessory while eating. Horserad- 
ish belongs in the same class. The flavor of these depends 
on a volatile oil peculiar to each substance. Such oils have 
no value as foods. Pepper, salt and vinegar form the most 
indispensable of table condiments. Of these, salt is, strictly 
speaking, a food. When, however, it is used in excess of 
body needs, simply to modify the flavor of food, it is prop- 
erly classed as a condiment. 

Condiments are taken for their mild stimulating effects on 
the tissues with which they come in contact. They are not 
required by a normal appetite, but are frequently used to 
obscure the flavor of poorly prepared food. Just as bread can 
be made of so delicate a flavor that it can be eaten without 
butter, most other foods can be so treated as to have a suffi- 
cient sapidity. In the Jforthern States, tomatoes and melons 
are eaten with various accessories ; in some parts of the South 
such fruits have so delicious a flavor that they are eaten plain. 
To add a cheap table sauce to a costly steak seems a gas- 
tronomic sin and certainly has no physiological justiflcation. 

In short, the taste for condiments is largely an artificial 
one, and their use should be limited. A well-trained palate 
tires of these high seasonings more quickly than of the mild 
characteristic flavors of food perfect in its natural state or 
so cooked as to develop its inherent taste. The moderate use. 
of condiments occasionally, for the sake of variety, or when 
the appetite is feeble, may be legitimate. They should be 
withheld (with the exception of salt), from the food of chil- 
dren, both because they destroy the appetite for milder foods, 
and because they are irritating to the mucous membrane of 
the alimentary canal. Because of their irritant properties 
they should also be given with caution to invalids, especially 



FOOD ACCESSORIES OB ADJUNCTS 35 

those suffering from any inflammation of the digestive tract. 
A person properly trained to relish foods for their natural 
flavors does not crave condiments, and is better ofE without 
them. 

BEVERAGES 

These food accessories comprise milk, coffee, tea, cocoa 
and chocolate, alcoholic drinks, lemonade and other acid 
drinks, aerated and carbonated drinks. Milk is a food 
rather than a beverage, becoming a solid instead of a liquid 
food in the stomach. It is the only product in nature pro- 
vided solely for food. It contains not only protein, fat, and 
carbohydrates in good proportions, but also a rich supply of 
mineral salts in an available form. Grov?ing children should 
have at least a quart of milk every day. Cocoa and chocolate 
are also valuable for their content of protein, fat, and car- 
bohydrate, and drinks from fruit juices contain mineral salts, 
organic acids (which help to maintain the alkalinity of the 
blood), and some carbohydrate. In other cases, the value of 
beverages does not lie in their nutritive content. 

Stimulation. Coffee, tea, chocolate and cocoa contain a 
stimulating alkaloid which produces mild exhilaration without 
reaction. Alcoholic drinks while they tend to produce nar- 
cotic effects when taken in excess, act as stimulants and ap- 
petizers in small quantities. 

Thirst Quenching. Substances like lemonade, ginger ale, 
and aerated drinks in general use are used for this purpose. 

Sapidity. Coffee and its congeners are used largely for 
their delicate flavor, and this may be said to a certain degree 
of all beverages. Drinks especially designed for the invalid 
and the sick will be considered under other heads. 



CHAPTER II 
NUTRITION 

DIGESTION — ABSOKPTION — METABOLISM 

Under this term is usually understood the digestion and 
absorption of nourishment, its assimilation and utilization, 
its storage in excess, and finally the elimination of the 
products of wear and tear, of combustion products, and of 
nutriment or waste which cannot be utilized. Those processes 
of nutrition which occur after absorption are now included in 
the term metabolism. To restate this in a simple form 
(adapted from Thompson), nutrition involves: 

1. The secretion of digestive fluids, and their action upon 
food in the alimentary canal — in other words, digestion. 

2. The passage of the ingredients of the digested food into 
the blood vessels and lymphathic vessels — absorption. 

3. The utilization of the absorbed nutrition products by 
the cells — assimilation or upward metabolism. 

4. The elimination of waste material — disassimilation or 
downward metabolism. 

The subjects of digestion and absorption will be treated in 
detail for each food principle, and then summarized at the 
end of each topic. 

DIGESTION 

DIGESTIOir OF PROTEINS 
Digestion in the Stomach. Protein is not chemically al- 
tered in the mouth. The process of chewing simply mois- 
tens and divides it into small particles so that it is easily 
swallowed and more readily attacked by the secretion of the 
stomach. Passing down the oesophagus, through the cardiac 

36 



DIGESTION 37 

sphincter guarding the entrance to the stomach, it enters that 
portion of the latter organ called the fundus. Here it rests 
quietly for some time, so that it is not immediately mixed 
with gastric juice, as formerly taught, but the outer portions 
of the mass are successively attacked and dissolved. These 
soft portions are then pressed into the intermediate and 
pyloric regions of the stomach and subjected to a thorough 
mixing. 

The gastric juice is an acid fluid which may be secreted in 
large quantities — as much as one or two gallons in 24 hours. 
Its acidity is due to the presence of about 0.2 per cent, to 0.4 
per cent, of hydrochloric acid. This of itself is capable; of 
causing protein to swell and to some extent dissolve; of 
hydrolyzing the collagen of connective tissue ; of decalcifying 
bone ; and of preventing bacterial action. 

The gastric juice contains two enzymes which act on pro- 
tein, pepsin and rennin. Pepsin can act only in the presence 
of a definite percentage of hydrochloric acid, while rennin 
acts in a neutral solution. The relations of rennin and pep- 
sin are not yet very clearly understood. The function of 
rennin is to curdle milk, which causes it to remain in the 
stomach long enough to be digested by the pepsin. 

Action of Pepsin. The protein of the diet, more or less 
swollen, softened, and dissolved by the action of hydrochloric 
acid, is changed chemically by pepsin, into a series of in- 
creasingly simpler and more soluble products, namely, acid 
proteins, proteoses (often called albumoses) and peptones. 
The change to peptones is not complete, but these three 
products of peptic digestion tend to pass together into the 
intestine, when the pyloric sphincter which guards the en- 
trance to the duodenum opens to let them pass. The opening 
and closing of this sphincter is controlled by two factors: 
1. The consistency of the partly digested food, solid particles 
tending to keep the pylorus closed. 2. The presence of free 
hydrochloric acid in the stomach contents. This is the more 
important factor. 

Protein is capable of absorbing and uniting chemically with 



38 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

a certain amount of acid. When it is so saturated, free acid 
■will be present, having now nothing with which to combine, 
and this free acid is the stimulus which causes the pyloric 
sphincter to relax and lets a little spurt of food into the 
duodenum. Once in the duodenum, this same acid acts as 
the stimulus to close the pylorus, and no more food enters the 
duodenum until the first portion has been neutralized. 

A clear understanding of the way in which the pyloric 
sphincter is regulated throws considerable light on stomach 
digestion. We can understand why a certain quantity of in- 
digestible residue, such as is present in most of our staple 
foods — meats, vegetables, fruits, etc. — is of service in re- 
taining food within the stomach for a time, giving the 
hydrochloric acid a chance to exercise its bactericidal power, 
and favoring thorough gastric digestion. It also explains 
why a meal of " bolted " food (or of food imperfectly masti- 
cated through absence of teeth), or a failure of free hydro- 
chloric acid in the stomach contents, as in hypoacidity or 
achylia gastrica, may set up such a continuous state of pyloric 
contraction that the stomach remains unemptied for a long 
period, with a good prospect of fermentation and gas pro- 
duction, of relief by vomiting, or of an attack of acute in- 
digestion, biliousness or diarrhoea. The nurse will under- 
stand why a diet of "liquids" for a person in relatively 
good health does not prove satisfactory. Liquids do not stay 
long enough in the stomach to give a sense of fullness, give 
the stomach little to do, and tend to pass into the intestine 
poorly prepared for the action of the digestive juices there. 

Digestion in the Intestines. On entering the duodenum, 
the acid chyme from the stomach meets three secretions, all 
alkaline in reaction, namely, the pancreatic juice, the bile, 
and the intestinal juice. 

The hydrochloric acid of the stomach is indirectly respon- 
sible for the flow of the pancreatic juice, for this begins only 
after acid food has entered the duodenum. The pancreatic 
juice contains an enzyme capable of digesting protein only 
after it has come into contact with the intestinal juice. This 



DIGESTION 



3& 



enzyme is then called trypsin, and the changes which it pro- 
duces in protein are similar to those produced by pepsin; it 
acts, however, in an alkaline medium. 

The products of tryptic digestion are therefore alkali pro- 
tein, proteoses (albumoses) and peptones. 

The bile plays no significant part in protein digestion, ex- 
cept as it helps to neutralize the chyme. 

The intestinal juice contains an enzyme called erepsin, 
which completes the digestion of protein, breaking down the 
proteoses and peptones formed by pepsin and trypsin into 
still less complex compounds called amino acids. These are 
the " end-products " of protein digestion. The digestive 
process can go no farther. There are no enzymes acting on 
proteins in the large intestines. 

Summary. The chemical changes in protein during the 
process of digestion are shown in the following table : 



PART OP 

ALIMENTARY 

TRACT 


NAME 

OF 

SECRETION 


ENZYMES 
ACTING ON 
PROTEIN 


PRODUCTS OF 
ENZYME ACTION 


Mouth 


Saliva 


None 


None 


Stomach 


Gastric Juice 


Eeunin 

Pepsin and Hy- 
drochloric acid 


Coagulates milk 

("Acid Protein, 
• Proteoses, 
[Peptones 


Small Intestine 


Pancreatic Juice 

Bile 

Intestinal Juice 


Trypsin (in alka- 
line medium) 

None 

Erepsin (acts 
only on proteo- 
ses and pep- 
tones ) 


("Alkali Protein, 
Proteoses, 
Peptones 

None 

Amino Acids 



40 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

DIGESTION OF FAT 

Pat is not acted upon by the secretions of the mouth nor 
to any great extent by those of the stomach. The gastric 
juice contains an enzyme, called gastric lipase, which has the 
power of acting on emulsified fats, such as in cream or yolk 
of eggs. It plays a more important part in the digestion of 
infants than of adults. 

The presence of fat in the stomach retards the secretion of 
gastric juice. Hence a certain excess of fat in the stomach 
is sufficient to close the pylorus for a longer or shorter time, 
due to the failure of the appearance of free hydrochloric acid. 
This doubtless accounts for the fact that fat in the diet often 
seems to retard and otherwise disturb digestion. 

Digestion of fat takes place mainly in the small intestines. 
The pancreatic juice contains an enzyme called steapsin, which 
has the power of emulsifying fats and also of splitting them 
into fatty acids and glycerine. 

The bile contains no such enzymes, but it is nevertheless an 
important factor in the digestion of fat. It has the power of 
increasing greatly the activity of the pancreatic lipase (steap- 
sin), and of holding in solution the fatty acids formed by 
its action, so that they are more perfectly absorbed. When 
bile is lacking, much of the fat fails of absorption and is 
excreted through the intestines. Emulsification is an im- 
portant aid in the splitting of fat into fatty acids and glycer- 
ine, the forms in which fat is chiefly absorbed. 

DIGESTION OF CARBOHYDRATES 

1. Digestion of Starch. There is little doubt that prim- 
itive man accomplished much .of the digestion of starch in the 
mouth. The saliva contains two enzymes, ptyalin, and mal- 
tase. By the action of ptyalin starch is changed to dextrins 
and these to maltose; by the action of maltase, maltose is 
converted into dextrose, the end-product of salivary digestion. 
The crude uncooked food required prolonged mastication be- 
fore it could be swallowed, and during this mastication the 
enzymes had opportunity for action. Eaw starch is so very 



DIGESTION 41 

slowly affected by enzymes, that much of the food value of un- 
cooked cereals is lost, so that the practice of baking ground 
grain into bread developed very early. This fact in regard 
to starch digestion is often disregarded by advocates of a re- 
turn to raw foods. 

There is said to be some evidence that a pharjmgeal reflex 
once existed which prevented the bolting of foods which are 
capable of salivary digestion, or which are not easily di- 
gestible without mastication. In recent years, Mr. Horace 
Fletcher has counseled a return to prolonged mastication, in 
order that salivary digestion may be carried to its fullest ex- 
tent. It is claimed that the more perfect utilization of all 
food eaten necessitates the taking of a smaller amount. 
There is no doubt that thorough mastication renders the di- 
gestion of starch easier and more complete, but it will not 
greatly alter the total food requirement. 

The starchy food mixed with saliva passes from the mouth 
to the stomach and lodges in the fundus, the portions last 
eaten always going to the center of the mass. Thus, while 
the gastric juice is at work upon the outer layer, attacking 
the protein of the diet, the inner portions remain alkaline for 
a considerable time, so that salivary digestion may continue 
undisturbed. 

From time to time, the soluble products of salivary and 
gastric digestion pass into the small intestine. Here the con- 
version of starch and intermediate products into simple sugars 
is completed. The pancreatic juice contains an enzjrme called 
amylopsin, which acts like ptyalin, i. e., changes starch to 
dextrins, and finally to maltose. 

The intestinal juice contains an enzyme capable of chang- 
ing maltose to dextrose, the final product in starch digestion. 

Summary. The chemical changes in starch during the 
process of digestion are shown in the following table : 



48 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



PART OP 

ALIMENTAET 

TRACT 


OF 

NAMK 

SECRETION 


ENZTMES 

ACTING ON 

STARCH 


PRODUCTS OF 
ENZYME 
ACTION 


Mouth 


Saliva 


Ptyalin 
Maltase 


fDextrins 
1 Maltose 

Dextrose 


Stomach 


Gastric Juice 


None 




Small Intestine 


Pancreatic Juice 
Intestinal Juice 


Amylopsin 
Maltase 


fDextrins 
l_Maltose 

Dextrose 



3. Digestion of Sugars. Although sugars are perfectly 
soluble and easily absorbed, they must all be converted into 
monosaccharides or simple sugars (chiefly dextrose), before 
they can be utilized by the body. Hence we find a number 
of enzymes in the alimentary tract acting upon disaccharides. 
Two of these have already been indicated in discussing the 
digestion of starch, i. e., the maltases of the saliva and in- 
testinal juice, which convert each molecule of maltose into 
two of dextrose. In the stomach, a slight hydrolysis of the 
disaccharides may occur through the influence of the hydro- 
chloric acid. In the intestines, provision is made for their 
complete transformation. Both the pancreatic and intestinal 
juices contain enzymes of this type. In young animals, or 
older individuals on a milk diet, the pancreatic juice con- 
tains lactase, which converts lactose (milk sugar) into dex- 
trose and galactose. The intestinal juice contains three such 
€nzymes, sucrase, acting on sucrose (cane sugar) ; lactase, 
acting on lactose; and maltase, acting on maltose. 

Summary. The chemical changes in sugar during the 
process of digestion are shown in the following table: 



DIGESTION 



43 



PAET OF 

ALIMENTARY 

TRACT 


NAME 

OF 

SECRETION 


ENZYMES 

ACTING ON 

SUGARS 


PRODUCTS 

OP ENZYME 

ACTION 


Mouth 


Saliva 


Maltase 


Dextrose 


Small Intestines 


Pancreatic Juice 
Intestinal Juice 


Lactase (at 
times) 

Lactase 

Maltase 

Sucrase 


["Dextrose 
\Galactose 

JDextrose 
\Galactose 

Dextrose 

rDextrose 
"[Levulose 



Mineral Matter and Water require no changes to prepare 
them for absorption. 

resume' of digestion 

The processes of digestion are both mechanical and chem- 
ical. By mechanical processes the foods are first softened 
and finely divided, so as to be non-irritating to the walls of 
the alimentary tract, and to expose as much surface as pos- 
sible to the action of the digestive enzymes; secondly, they 
are moved along the alimentary tract from time to time, to 
facilitate digestion and absorption, and to expel indigestible 
residues. The movements of the mouth in mastication, of 
the oesophagus in swallovsring, and of the intermediate and 
pyloric regions of the stomach in mixing the food vrith the 
gastric juice; the rhythmic and peristaltic movements of the 
small intestines, by which the food is alternately churned in 
a stationary position and then pushed along to a new region 
to repeat the process; and finally, the anti-peristaltic move- 
ments of the first part of the large intestines and the slow 
peristalsis throughout its entire length, form a series of events 
of tremendous importance to the welfare of the organism. 

By chemical processes, complex food-stuffs are converted 
into simpler substances out of which the body can build the 



44 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



compounds essential to its persistence and activity. The di- 
gestive fluids and the enzymes contained therein, with the 
results of their activity, are most readily indicated by the 
following table: 



PART OF 


NAME OF 
SECRETION 


REACTION 


ENZYMES 
PRESENT 


FOOD 


PRODUCTS OF 


ALIMENTARY 
TRACT 


TO 
LITMUS 


PRINCIPLES 
ACTED UPON 


ENZYME 
ACTION 


Mouth 


Saliva 


Alkaline 


Ptyalin 


Starch 


r Soluble 
J Starch- 
) Dextrins 
L Maltose 








Maltase 


Maltose 


Dextrose 


Stomach 


Gastric 
Juice 


Acid 

(0.2%- 
0.4% 
H 01.) 


Pepsin 


Proteins 


f Acid 
J Protein 
j Proteoses 
I Peptones 








Kennin 


Protein 
(especially 
casein of 
milk) 


Coagulated 
Protein 








Lipase 


Emulsified 
Fats 


Fatty acids 
and 












glycerine 


Small 


Pancreatic 


Alkaline 


Trypsin 


Proteins 


r Alkali 


Intestines 


Juice 








J Protein 
1 Proteoses 
. Peptones 








Steapsin 


Fats 


r Emulsified 

Fat — 
-i Fatty 

acids and 
glycerine 








Amylopsin 


Starch 


r Soluble 
J Starch — 
1 Dextrins — 
. Maltose 








Lactase 


Lactose 


Dextrose 








(in young 


(Milk 


and 
L Galactose 








animals ) 


Sugar) 




Intestinal 


AlTraliTifi 


Erepsin 


Proteins in 


Amino 




Juice 






the form of 

Proteoses 

and 


Acids 








Su erase 


Peptones 

Sucrose 


Dextrose and 
Levulose 








Maltase 




Dextrose 








Lactase 


Lactose 


Dextrose and 
Galactose 



The bile contains no important enzymes, but greatly facilitates the diges- 
tion of fats. The intestinal juice contains an enzyme which makes trypsin 
an active enzyme, and a substance which helps to stimulate the flow of 
pancreatic juice. 



DIGESTION 45 

Inspection of the table on page 44 shows that there are five 
so-called digestive juices, viz. : saliva, gastric Juice, pancreatic 
juice, bile, and intestinal juice. All are produced intermit- 
tently except the bile, which is secreted continuously into the 
gall-bladder and discharged at intervals into the intestine. 
All are alkaline except the gastric juice. All contain power- 
ful enzymes except the bile. Enzymes which digest protein 
occur in the gastric juice (pepsin), the pancreatic juice (tryp- 
sin), and the intestinal juice (erepsin). Ferments which 
transform starch to sugar occur especially in the saliva and 
pancreatic juices, and are commonly known as diastatic 
enzymes. Ptyalin is an old name for salivary diastase, amy- 
Ippsin for pancreatic diastase. 

The principal fat-splitting enzyme occurs in the pan- 
creatic juice, and is known as pancreatic lipase or steapsin. 
Numerous enzymes of minor importance occur in the gastric, 
pancreatic, and intestinal juices. Bile in itself is able to 
emulsify fat as a step toward digestion. 

FACTORS DETERMINING RATE OP DIGESTION 

We know of the existence of many factors which influence 
salivary and gastric digestion, but much less about intestinal 
digestion. Among these are the nature of the food, cook- 
ery, appetite, mastication, palatability, mental state, amount 
of fluid in the meal, the pyloric reflexes, etc. The nature of 
the individual plays a powerful role; some individuals can 
subsist almost wholly upon one or a few articles, while others 
quickly revolt against monotony of diet. Idiosyncrasy is 
another important factor; for example, some individuals can- 
not eat mutton, however disguised, while in others sugar is 
so strong a stimulant to peristalsis that it sets up a violent 
diarrhoea. The above being true of presumably healthy peo- 
ple, the factors which may influence digestion in the sick, 
invalid and convalescent must be still more uncertain. 
Hence tables which purport to give the relative digestibility 
of foods must be studied with allowances. We can study this 
problem in test tubes, or by examining the washings from the 



46 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

stomacli after definite meals or in fistula patients, but the 
results can hardly be applied forthwith to all persons. 

The direct stimuli to the secretion of saliva are the sight, 
odor or taste of food; or the mechanical irritation produced 
by contact of food-stuffs with the mouth. Indirectly, the 
thought of food may be a psychic stimulus to the flow of 
saliva. Excitement may so check the flow of saliva that it 
is impossible to swallow dry food. 

The stimuli to the secretion of gastric juice are both psychic 
and chemical. Pawlow has demonstrated, in the case of 
dogs, that the sight of food or the chewing of food in the 
mouth may produce a very effective flow of gastric juice, to 
which he attributes great importance in digestion. How im- 
portant this preliminary flow before food enters the stomach 
may be in the case of man has not been very clearly demon- 
strated, but it seems reasonable that the desire for eating, the 
act of eating and the pleasure obtained therefrom exercise 
a favorable influence upon gastric secretion. It has recently 
been shown that the products of salivary digestion act as 
a stimulus to the flow of gastric juice, and that once the 
process of gastric digestion is initiated, the products of pep- 
tic activity cause the continuance of the secretion as long 
as the food remains in the stomach. The mere mechanical 
irritation caused by the presence of food in the stomach is 
ineffective. Thus white of egg will cause no flow. But cer- 
tain substances, such as meat extracts, bitters and condiments, 
promote secretion. The use of meat broths, gelatin jellies, 
peptones (i. e., products of gastric digestion), and toast (con- 
taining dextrins or products of salivary digestion), at the 
beginning of a meal, or to promote feeble gastric digestion in 
an invalid, is therefore a rational practice. 

ABSORPTION 

While absorption through a permeable animal membrane 
outside the body may be a simple physical process, following 
the ordinary laws of pressure, diffusion, osmosis, etc., the case 



ABSORPTION 47 

is far otherwise in the alimentary tract, where the selective 
activity of the living cell becomes a positive factor. The 
pressure in secreting glands rises above blood pressure; sub- 
stances pass inward to the body through the mucous mem- 
brane without a corresponding movement in the opposite di- 
rection. Thus blood serum, placed in a loop of intestine is 
promptly absorbed, but if the loop be surrounded with serum, 
it does not pass in a similar manner into the lumen of the 
section of intestine. 

The stomach is not primarily an absorbing organ, but a few 
substances, such as sugars and peptones, pass to a limited 
extent through its walls. The most important seat of absorp- 
tion is the small intestine, and second, the large intestine. 
Absorption in the small intestine is affected through the in- 
numerable little projections with which the intestine is lined, 
known as villi, which greatly extend the amount of surface. 
These villi contain a capillary network and a so-called lac- 
teal space. The capillaries by converging into larger vessels 
eventually form the portal vein which passes through the 
liver. The lacteal spaces are prolonged into lymphatic ves- 
sels which similarly converge to form the thoracic duct. The 
lacteals are intended almost wholly for the absorption of the 
fats, all other digestive products passing through the liver 
before reaching the general circulation. 

Absorption continues throughout the length of the large 
intestine, being especially ilavored by antiperistalsis in the 
upper portions. Constipation sometimes results from the 
great absorptive power of this region, the feces being left dry 
and hard and hence difBcult to evacuate. 

Absorption of Protein. This question still continues to be 
a riddle. At some point, either in the intestinal walls and 
villi or blood vessels, or in the blood itself, the amino acids 
formed in digestion are united to form body protein. We do 
not know how or where this transformation occurs. It is 
certain that a small amount of humanized albumin reaches 
the blood through the thoracic duct. The rest must enter the 
portal circulation and pass through the liver into the general 



48 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

blood stream. The end products of peptic digestion seldom 
are found in the blood, and when present, tend to pass at once 
into the urine. When food albumin for any reason enters 
the blood, it does not act as blood albumin, but is at once 
excreted by the kidneys as a poison. Proteoses and peptones 
behave similarly. As animals may be made to live in health 
on a diet of end products alone, we know that these repre- 
sent the utilizable portion of food albumin. 

Aisorption of Fat. It is now commonly believed that fat 
is absorbed in the form of the end products of its digestion, 
i. e., fatty acids and glycerine, and that somewhere in the 
intestinal wall these are recombined into neutral fat. It is 
possible that' some of the finely emulsified fat is able to pass 
unchanged through the intestinal wall. In either case, mi- 
nute fat droplets pass into the lacteals, and finally into the 
blood stream by way of the thoracic duct. A small portion 
finds its way directly into the blood. 

Fats having a low melting point are absorbed more quickly 
than solid fats, and pure fat more readily than fat inter- 
mingled with other food principles, as in fat meat, for ex- 
ample. 

Absorption of Carbohydrates. The end products of carbo- 
hydrate digestion pass to the blood by way of the portal sys- 
tem. The monosaccharides on reaching the liver enter the 
general circulation as dextrose if required for immediate use ; 
otherwise they are stored in the liver in the form of glycogen, 
which can be again transformed into sugar when demanded 
by the system to furnish energy. Sugars are so readily ab- 
sorbed that if taken in large quantities the body may be un- 
able to utilize them, and the excess is excreted in the urine. 
This is especially true in case of an excess of cane sugar or 
milk sugar. They may be absorbed before digestion, and 
there are no enzymes in the blood capable of converting them 
into dextrose so that they can be burned or stored. Under 
such circumstances they are useless and must be gotten rid of. 
If maltose is absorbed too rapidly, it may still be changed to 
dextrose by enzymes in the blood or tissues, and so be utilized. 



ABSORPTION 49 

Absorption of Mineral Matter. As salts are not digested 
in the ordinary sense of the word, they require nothing more 
than solution in the digestive fluids before absorption. The 
mineral matter is set free from food and diffuses more or less 
rapidly into the surrounding fluids. Common salt is most 
quickly absorbed. The chief locality for absorption is the 
small intestines. The older text books taught that salts 
were absorbed only by diffusion through the intestinal wall, 
which required that another solution must at the same time 
pass from the blood to the intestines until both fluids were 
of the same degree of concentration. It appears, however, 
that in the main, mineral matter is taken up in the intestinal 
wall without diffusion, and as fast as it can be incorporated 
with certain peculiar solvents is absorbed into the blood. 

Absorption of Water. "Water is not absorbed by the stom- 
ach, but passes quickly in little spurts (if taken alone) into 
the intestines. Here it is very rapidly absorbed; it may be 
excreted through the kidneys within twenty minutes after 
ingestion. The rapidity of absorption may be considerably 
influenced by mineral matter dissolved in the water. 

Summary. Absorption is an active, not a passive process. 
It takes place mainly in the intestines, the larger part before 
the food reaches the ileo-cecal valve. 

Proteins are absorbed by the villi, chiefly in the form of 
amino acids and pass through the portal vein to the liver. 

Fats are absorbed by the lacteals, chiefly in the form of 
fatty acids and glycerine, but pass to the lymphatics as neu- 
tral fat, and enter the blood stream from the thoracic duct. 

Carbohydrates are absorbed by the villi in the form of su- 
gar (chiefly dextrose) and pass through the portal vein to 
the liver. 

Unabsorbed material forms the feces (see Excretion, page 
53). Undigested proteins, fats and carbohydrates are liable 
to attack by putrefactive and fermentative organisms in the 
intestines. The products of such bacterial action are absorbed 
to a considerable extent. Carbohydrates which escape diges- 
tion tend to produce lactic and other acids. This fermenta- 



50 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

tion is not altogether an evil, for it checks the putrefaction 
of undigested meat. The latter is undesirable, as the products 
are likely to prove toxic. It is for this reason that lactic acid, 
especially in the form of buttermilk and artificially fermented 
sour milk, is largely employed as a remedial agent in intes- 
tinal indigestion. 

metabolism: 

Metabolism is the sum of the chemical changes taking place 
in the cells of the body in connection with all biological 
processes, including growth, repair and waste, generation and 
maintenance of heat, all manifestations of functional activity, 
storage of surplus nutriment, etc. It comprises two phases, 
anabolism and katabolism. 

Anabolism embraces the changes involved in the upbuilding 
of the cells, and corresponds in a general way to nutrition. 
Assimilation is the selective act of the cells in appropriating 
the special form of nutriment in the circulating blood which 
is suited for their needs. The special phases of anabolism 
comprise the assimilation of nitrogen for growth and repair 
of protoplasm, the storage of a certain amount of fat and 
carbohydrate, the assimilation of oxygen for maintenance of 
heat and functional activity, and the retention of inorganic 
salts in the bones and other tissues. 

Katabolism comprises the changes involved in the contin- 
uous molecular waste of the cells; in the constant oxidation 
going on in the tissues; in the maintenance of animal heat; 
in the exercise of muscular, nervous and secretory activity; 
and perhaps in the breaking up of protein into oxidizable 
carbohydrates and nitrogenous waste products. We speak 
less of the acts of katabolism than of the products of katabo- 
lism, which are a measure of those acts. The chief of these 
products are: (1) urea, the chief form of excretion of ni- 
trogen, and (3) carbon dioxide and water, which represent 
the products of energy-yielding oxidations. 

Elimination is the escape or expulsion of the products of 



METABOLISM 51 

katabolism from the tissues into the blood, and corresponds 
to disassimilation or denutrition. Excretion is the final ex- 
pulsion of the end products of katabolism from the excretory 
organs and includes the expulsion of unabsorbed aliment by 
the bowel. 

In the case of certain products of metabolism, it is hardly 
possible to state positively whether they represent anabolism 
or katabolism. Here belong especially the substances formed 
in connection with secretion, as the digestive enzymes, the 
hydrochloric acid of the gastric juice, the iodothyrin of the 
thyroid gland and the adrenalin of the suprarenal gland. In 
all likelihood both factors participate, for certain substances 
must be assimilated from the food to form these bodies which 
in turn are set free in the blood. It is also true that some 
of these substances act by their mere presence, without ap- 
parent waste (catalytic action). 

Metaholism, of Protein. A relatively small proportion of 
protein is normally disposed of by oxidation for energy-forma- 
tion, when carbohydrates and fats enter fully into the diet. 
But in their absence, protein, by virtue of the fact that it con- 
tains the elements of carbohydrates and fats (carbon, hydro- 
gen and oxygen) in its molecule, can furnish all the heat and 
force required. Certain savages subsist wholly on meat and 
remain in good health, and in the so-called Salisbury treat- 
ment of obesity, etc., it can be demonstrated at will that a 
patient may subsist for weeks on raw beef without apparent 
detriment, provided plenty of water is drunk, the excess of 
water aiding in the elimination of unutilized protein. 

When absorbed protein reaches the liver, a large part of the 
nitrogen is split ofE and excreted as urea. The remaining 
portion goes to make good the small daily waste of body 
protein. The portion of the protein molecule left after the 
nitrogen is split off is available as fuel. When carbohydrates 
and fats are liberally supplied, so that protein is not required 
for fuel, the daily amount needed is comparatively small. 
Even when the body is losing nitrogen rapidly, as in certain 
fevers, it has been found that this is partly because the body 



53 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

protein is being used as fuel, and the loss can be largely 
prevented by furnishing more energy in the form of carbo- 
hydrate or fat. Much confusion has arisen because the excess 
of nitrogen in the diet is to some extent identical in form 
with the waste products of cellular activity. Besides urea, 
some of the chief nitrogenous products of protein metabolism 
are ammonium salts, uric acid, creatin and creatinin. 

The non-nitrogenous portion of protein may be burned or 
possibly stored, but the nitrogen excess must be eliminated. 
Because of the fact that excess of nitrogen throws work on the 
kidneys, it is assumed that an excessive protein diet is injuri- 
ous to the integrity of these organs. This is evident in dis- 
eased kidneys, but cannot be proved for healthy organs. 
However, it seems unnecessary to consume a great excess of 
protein and perhaps unwise, owing to the great frequency of 
fatal kidney diseases. At any rate, except where protein is 
specially advantageous for ease of digestion, it is unnecessary 
to make it a large part of the diet. 

Metabolism of Fat. Fat, which is passed into the blood 
from the thoracic duct, is carried over the body and deposited 
in many organs and tissues, unless needed for immediate use 
as a source of energy, in which case it is oxidized to carbon 
dioxide and water. It has been shown that diet-fat may be 
deposited in the body in the same form as eaten, but the 
readiest means of forming body fat is usually to give an 
excess of carbohydrate. The ease with which carbohydrates 
form fat is shown in the case of cows which produce large 
quantities of butter fat on an herbivorous diet. It is also 
possible to form fat from protein, but it is difficult, as a con- 
siderable part of the energy of the protein molecule goes to 
get rid of the nitrogen, and protein increases the rate of metab- 
olism. We know very little of the details of fat metabolism. 
Some investigators hold that it must be converted into dex- 
trose before it can be oxidized. As already stated, an excess 
of carbohydrate may be stored in the form of fat. 

Metabolism, of Ca/rbohydrates. The blood maintains a con- 
stant sugar content of about 1.5 per cent. As fast as this 



EXCRETION 53 

sugar is oxidized, it is replaced by more from the store of 
glycogen in the liver and muscles, or from newly-formed 
sugar of recently digested food. The final products of carbo- 
hydrate oxidation are carbon dioxide and water, but several 
intermediate products (as lactic acid) are first formed, prob- 
ably by the action of enzymes. 

When the body is unable to store any more carbohydrate as 
glycogen, all further storage of excess is in the form of fat. 

When sugar is lacking in the blood, as in starvation or 
failure to utilize carbohydrates, the sugar content is main- 
tained at the expense of protein. This explains why the dia- 
betic who is eating no carbohydrate, may still excrete sugar 
in the urine. There is some experimental evidence that su- 
gar may be formed also from fat. At any rate, fat is oxidized 
in absence of carbohydrate, and whether it is first changed to 
sugar, or oxidized directly, it is a compact means of storing 
energy, since one gram of fat will yield 214 times as much 
as an equal amount of protein or carbohydrate. 

EXCRETION 

The waste products of metabolism and all unutilized food, 
along with the products of oxidation, are eliminated from the 
system in several ways. Water escapes through the lungs, 
skin and kidneys. Aside from the obvious fluid perspiration, 
a steady evaporation takes place from the skin (insensible 
perspiration). The carbon dioxide produced by oxidation 
escapes by the lungs, and nitrogenous products of protein me- 
tabolism by the urine. The feces are made up chiefly of the 
residues of food, but also contain biliary matters and other 
products of the body. T\Tien there is excessive putrefaction 
of the fecal matter, some of the soluble material is absorbed 
and eliminated in the urine. Generally speaking, putrefac- 
tion (of nitrogenous food) and fermentation (of carbohy- 
drates) hold each other in check. It is known that fasting 
and starving people pass some feces, thus showing that the 
bowel is a true excretory organ. 



CHAPTER III 

FOOD VALTJES 
UITEOGEN BALANCE — ENERGY VAITJE OF POOD 

We are now in position to understand something of food 
values, which depend on the food actually utilized in the body, 
to the exclusion of food unabsorbed, or eliminated because in 
excess of the demands of the system. Energy-yielding ma- 
terial which is not used at the time may be stored, but be- 
yond a certain point, stored nutriment must be regarded as 
undesirable, as in obese subjects. 

As stated by Atwater, the food supplies body wants in five 
ways: (1) tissue-building, (2) tissue-repairing, (3) storage 
for future use, (4) oxidation to maintain animal heat and (5) 
oxidation to supply energy; or we may say that according to 
function, foods are classified as tissue-formers, or body-build- 
ers; energy (or work and heat) producers; and regulators of 
body processes. (See page 5.) 

NITROGEN BALANCE OR NITROGEN EQUIIIBRIUM 

In body building and repairing, the nitrogen of protein 
food is indispensable. In the other functions, nitrogen is not 
utilized. Carbohydrates and fats are the natural and con- 
venient sources of energy, although the protein contains in 
itself non-nitrogenous material capable of oxidation. As al- 
ready stated, however, to depend largely upon protein for 
oxidizable food means the ingestion of an enormous quantity 
of unnecessary nitrogen, the getting rid of which involves 
waste of energy and is thought to necessitate a strain upon 
the excretory system. Furthermore, when the diet consists 
chiefly of protein, much of the latter may not be digested and 
absorbed as such, but may remain in the intestine, there to 

54 



NITROGEN BALANCE 55 

undergo putrefactive changes. In the course of putrefaction 
certain soluble poisonous substances form and are absorbed, 
requiring elimination by the kidneys. The excess of nitrogen 
which cannot be utilized in tissue repair must also be elimi- 
nated by the kidneys. Thus while people may thrive on a 
diet rich in protein, there is considerable evidence that vital- 
ity, endurance and resistance to disease are better attained 
with a diet in which the fuel foods (carbohydrates and fats) 
predominate. 

Nitrogen cannot be stored to any extent and is constantly 
eliminated in the urine as urea and other nitrogenous sub- 
stances. When the diet-nitrogen corresponds in amount with 
the eliminated nitrogen, the metabolism of nitrogen is bal- 
anced, or in a state of equilibrium. If too small a quantity 
of nitrogenous food is taken it does not compensate for the 
waste of body nitrogen which is inseparable from life. The 
same thing occurs when for any reason the food nitrogen is 
not absorbed, or is eliminated without being utilized. This 
condition of nitrogen starvation is characteristic of under- 
feeding, wasting diseases, defective assimilation, etc. Con- 
versely equilibrium between food nitrogen and excreted ni- 
trogen represents good nutrition, health and energy ; for while 
nitrogen cannot be permanently stored, it is possible for a 
balance to be maintained over long periods. It was once 
taught that increased elimination of nitrogen was due chiefly 
to the waste of tissue incidental to prolonged and severe 
muscular or nervous effort ; at a later period, however, it be- 
came apparent that this waste was comparatively little, and 
constant for the individual regardless of the amount of muscu- 
lar exercise, so that the urea nitrogen depends chiefly on the 
amount of diet nitrogen. The loss of nitrogen in wasting 
disease, starvation, etc., is, however, extensive ; so that in con- 
valescence the body is able to store some nitrogen. 

Nitrogen retention is greatly facilitated in all cases by a 
liberal supply of carbohydrates and fats. 

Nitrogen metabolism can hardly be studied in the ordinary 
patientj on account of the number and variety of tests which 



56 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

must be accurately made, so that our only guide is the results 
of scientific inYestigation of the amounts of nitrogen required 
under given conditions, and the general well-being of the 
subject. If weight is maintained, along with a healthy state 
of functions, the ration in question is suitable for the sub- 
ject tested. If the individual be in the growing period, the 
ration should be such that the growth rate is normal. If 
he be a convalescent, the recovery of the original weight should 
be constantly progressive. Of late years, however, the em- 
phasis on nitrogen values alone has been largly superseded 
by greater attention to total fuel values as being of greater 
practical worth. It is known that a relatively small and 
easily obtained quantity of nitrogen is sufficient to repair waste 
in the average individual, but the food required for producing 
energy is very significant in amount. With a liberal supply 
of carbohydrates and fats, the ordinary daily waste of nitrogen 
in one adult may be reduced as low as 3 to 4 grams daily 
(corresponding to 20 to 35 grams of protein). 

To insure a full supply of nitrogen, and to maintain ni- 
trogen equilibrium at a higher level than the bare maintenance 
requirement, considerably more than this amount is commonly 
taken. Prom 80 to 100 grams of protein per day is re- 
garded as a liberal supply for an average man (weighing 70 
kilograms or 154 lbs.) on an ordinary mixed diet of suitable 
energy value. 

THE ENERGY VAITTE OF FOOD 

In Liebig's time it was recognized that animal heat was 
generated by carbohydrates and fats, but the physiologists of 
that day did not realize that these were the nutrients which 
furnished the body with energy for its activity. They 
thought that all muscular work was done at the expense of 
nitrogenous material. It has taken many years for us to 
realize fully that animal energy in all its forms is derived 
primarily from carbohydrate material, secondly from fats, and 
thirdly from proteins only in so far as they yield combustible, 
non-nitrogenous bodies. 



ENERGY VALUE 57 

Energy may be defined as the power to do work. This 
force manifests itself in different ways. It may be latent, 
or inactive; or it may be active in various forms, such as 
heat ; chemical or electrical energy ; or mechanical movement, 
which we call work. It may be changed from one of these 
forms into another without loss. The most convenient way to 
measure energy is by transforming it into h^at. A unit has 
been devised to express different amounts of heat, correspond- 
ing to a definite number of work units; this is called the 
calorie. One calorie represents the amount of heat required 
to raise the temperature of one kilogram of water one degree 
Centigrade. This is called the large calorie, which is com- 
monly used in determining the energy value of food. The 
small calorie is tAtt of a large calorie. 

Energy cannot be created. We must put into any machine 
as much force as we expect to get from it. Even in the most 
efficient machine we cannot recover all of the energy in the 
form of useful work; some of it is always transformed into 
heat, owing to friction. This is true even in the body, which 
is a most efficient machine, but here much of the waste energy 
in the form of heat is turned to good account in maintaining 
the body temperature. 

The source of energy for the body is food, just as much as 
the source of energy for the engine is coal. Plants store up 
the sun's energy, it is transferred to animals which eat the 
plants, and eventually man gets it by eating the plant and 
animal foods. The amount of energy in any given food ma- 
terial is measured by the amount of heat which it will pro- 
duce. In general, this is the same, whether the food be 
burned outside or inside the body, the total result in any case 
depending upon the amount of the food-stuff which is utilized 
by the body. 

An instrument devised for the measurement of heat is 
called a calorimeter. To determine the fuel value of any 
food material outside of the body, a given amount is placed 
in a calorimeter, where it is burned in an atmosphere of pure 
oxygen, in a vessel surrounded by water. The heat generated 



58 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

raises the temperature of the water, and the change is ob- 
served with a very delicate thermometer. From this the 
total heat evolved is calculated. To determine the fuel value 
of this material within the body, the average amount which 
is lost in digestion, or which is not completely oxidized before 
excretion, is deducted from the fuel value outside the body. 
The result is the physiological fuel value. Many years ago, 
Eubner determined averages for proteins, fats, and carbohy- 
drates from experiments on dogs. In recent times, further 
experiments made in this country on human subjects by Prof. 
Atwater and his associates have modified these factors some- 
what. The following are therefore accepted as the average 
energy values of food in the body to-day : 

1 gram of Protein yields 4 Calories 

1 gram of Pat yields 9 Calories 

1 gram of Carbohydrate . . . yields 4 Calories 

DETERMINATION OF ENERGY VAITTE OE FOOD 

To determine the energy value of a given amount of any 
food, it is necessary to know first its composition, i. e., the 
percentages of protein, fat, and carbohydrate present. Tables 
are available giving the results of many analyses, as in Bulle- 
tin 38, Office of Experiment Station, United States Dept. of 
Agriculture, Washington, D. C, "The Chemical Composi- 
tion of American Food Materials." 

Second. From these percentages to determine the weight 
of protein fat and carbohydrate in grams, which can be ob- 
tained from a given amount of the food material. 

Third. To multiply these weights by the energy value of 
one gram of each of the three food principles. 

By way of illustration let us find the fuel value of one loaf 
of bread, weighing 12 ounces. 

(1) By referring to Bulletin 28, we find that white bread 
(miscellaneous) yields on the average, 

9.3 % protein. 
1.2 % fat. 
52.7 % carbohydrate. 



ENERGY VALUE 59 

(2) To get the weight of protein, fat and carbohydrate in 
grams, we must first convert the total weight of bread into 
grams, 

1 oz. =3 28.35 grams. 
12 oz. = 340.2 grams. 
Then 340.2 X 0.093 = 31.64 grams of protein. 
340.2 X 0.012 = 4.08 grams of fat. 
340.2 X 0.527 — 179.28 grams of carbohydrate. 

( 3 ) Multiplying the amount of each nutrient by the proper 
factor, 

31.64 grams protein X 4 = 126.56 Calories 

4.08 grams fat X 9 = 36.72 Calories 

179.28 grams carbohydrate X 4 ^ 717.12 Calories 

Total 880.40 Calories 

Hence the total energy value of 1 loaf of bread weighing 13 
ounces is 880.4 calories. 

To calculate the total energy value of any combination of 
foods, it is necessary to compute the fuel value of each in- 
gredient, and take the sum of the whole group. 

Thus for Egg Broth, page 118, it is necessary first to get 
the weight in grams of each of the following ingredients and 
then to estimate their energy value as indicated above. 

Yolk of 1 egg = 13 grams. 

1 tablespoon sugar = 15 grams. 

1 cup milk ^ 244 grams. 

1 tablespoon brandy = 14 grams. 

In this book the food values of all the materials used have 
been incorporated into a table, so that by reference to this 
the value of any combination is quickly made. 

Yolk of 1 egg ^= 48 Calories. 

1 tablespoon sugar = 60 Calories. 

1 cup milk =169 Calories. 

1 tablespoon brandy i =: 42 Calories. 

Total energy value 319 Calories. 

' The energy value of alcohol is 7 calories per gram. It is necessary, 
therefore, to know the per cent, of alcohol in any liquor. 



60 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

To estimate the fuel value of any diet, it is simply necessary 
to compute the food value of each food material used and add 
the results together. 

To estimate the fuel value of an infant's diet, the following 
formula, adapted to the above factors for energy value from 
Priedenwald and Euhrah's Diet in Health and Disease, is 
very convenient. 

Formula for calculating the Calories of Any Period of 
Infant Feeding: 

(1) Quantity X F X 2.65 = Calories from fat. 

(2) Quantity X (S + P) X 1.18 = Calories from protein and sugar. 

The sum of 1 and 2 gives the total calories. 

Quantity ,= 24-hour amount in ounces. F, S and P = 
fat, sugar, and protein respectively, with percents in whole 
numbers. 

To illustrate, take a formula of the following composition: 

Protein 0.7% 

Fat 2.7% 

Carbohydrates 6.0% 



[Feedings per day 9, amount at each finding 1% oz. 



Hence Q=13.5 oz. (9X 1%) 
F=: 2.7 oz. 
S= 6 oz. 
P= 0.7 oz. 

(1) Q. X F X 2.65 = 13.5 X 2.7 X 2.65 = 96.6 Cal. 

(2) Q. X (S + P) X 1.18 = 13.5 X (6 + 0.7) X 1.18 = 106.7 Cal. 

96.6 + 106.7 = 203.3 Cal., total for day. 

THE ENERGY BEaTJIREMENTS OE THE BODY 
Work goes on continually in the living body, whether asleep 
or awake, idle or active, sick or well. In the resting body it 
consists of such internal work as that of digestion and absorp- 
tion, circulation, respiration, muscular tension, and intracellu- 
lar work. 

In youth these functions are more active than in adult life ; 
in old age they are somewhat less active. 



ENERGY REQUIREMENT 61 

Por a man of average -weiglit (154 lbs. or 70 kg.) from 
1600 to 2000 cal. daily are required to supply energy for, 
these internal activities. Children require somewhat more in 
proportion to their body weight, aged persons somewhat less. 
Beyond this, the factor of most significance in determining the 
total food requirement for any individual is the amount of 
muscular activity. A man requiring 100 cal. per hour at 
rest may by hard work raise his energy requirement as high 
as 500 or 600 cal. per hour. For this reason a person en- 
gaged in a sedentary occupation needs less food than one 
whose work is physical, as a farmer or lumberman. Children 
are usually more active than adults, and hence in proportion 
to their weight require more food, while inactive aged per- 
sons require very little. 

Averages obtained from many observations on the amount 
of food consumed by individuals under different conditions, 
show that the energy requirement of the active man of 70 
legs, body weight is approximately 3000 calories. 

In making estimates for any individual, age, weight, size 
and shape, season and climate, mechanical efiSciency, etc., 
must be considered as well as muscular activity. 

During the early months of life, children require about 100 
cal. per kilogram of body weight. Throughout the years of 
childhood, they need about 80 calories per kilogram. The 
adult moderately active, 35^0 cal. per kilogram, and the 
very aged, about 37 cal. per kilogram. 

" The following table, computed by Eubner, shows the daily 
heat consumption, in units of heat (calories) in an adult, 
weighing 65 kilograms or 140 lbs." 

During rest in bed. . 1800 calories or 28 Cal. per kilogram. 

In repose 2100 calories or 32 Cal. per kilogram. 

In light work 2300 calories or 33 Cal. per kilogram. 

In moderate work.. 2600 calories or 40 Cal. per kilogram. 

In hard work 3100 calories or 48 Cal. per kilogram. 

The total energy requirement for individuals under differ- 
ent conditions of age, weight, and activity are approximately 
as indicated in the following table: 



63 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

ENERGY PEE DAY 
CONDITIONS IN CALORIES 

Man at light work , 2500-2800 Cal. 

Man at moderate work 3000-3500 Cal. 

Man at very hard work 4000-5000 Cal. 

Woman at light work 1800-2400 Cal. 

Woman at moderate work 2400-2800 Cal. 

Child from two to six 1200-1800 Cal. 

Child from six to fifteen 1800-2500 Cal. 

Aged Man 1800-2000 Cal. 

Aged Woman 1600-1800 Cal. 

The most convenient means of calculating the energy value 
is afforded by the following table, determined for the adult 
man of average weight. 

AVERAGE NOEMAI OUTPUT OP HEAT FROM THE BODY 

AVERAGE 
CONDITIONS OF MUSCULAR ACTIVITY CALORIES PER 

HOUR 

Man at rest, sleeping 65 Calories 

Man at rest, awake, sitting up 100 Calories 

Man at light muscular exercise 170 Calories 

Man at moderately active muscular exercise . . 290 Calories 

Man at severe muscular exercise 450 Calories 

Man at very severe muscular exercise 600 Calories 

To illustrate the use of this table, let us calculate the 
energy requirement of a vroman weighing 120 lbs., under 
the following conditions : 

Sleeps 9 hours 9 X 65 = 585 Cal. 

Works at desk 8 hours 8 X 100 = 800 Cal. 

Walks or does light exercise 3 hrs 3 X 170 = 510 Cal. 

Eeads or sits quietly sewing 4 hrs 4 X 100 =: 400 Cal. 

2295 Cal. 

Since these factors are for a man weighing 154 lbs., for a 
woman of 120 lbs. under above conditions, reduce this pro- 
portionately to her weight, 

154 : 120 : : 2296 : X 

X= 1788 cal. — total energy requirement for 
a woman of 120 lbs., under the above conditions. 



ENEBGY REQUIREMENT 63 

The protein requirement is conveniently estimated by pro- 
viding 10-12 per cent, of the day's energy in the form of 
protein. Thus for a man whose energy requirement is 3000 
cal. per day, 360 cal. from protein (13 per cent.) would 
correspond to 90 grams of protein, which would be a fairly 
liberal allowance. 

A tall thin person requires more food than a short fat 
person of equal weight. Also, the person of nervous tem- 
permanent, in whom muscular tension is high, may require 
more food than one of phlegmatic temperament. More en- 
ergy is lost in the form of heat in cold weather than in warm. 
Because of the numerous factors involved in any case, it is 
possible to calculate the absolute energy requirement only 
by rigid scientific experiment. The tables given above, how- 
ever, are a useful guide to the approximate amount of food 
required by different individuals. 

As an aid to easy estimation of the food value of any diet, 
the following tables have been introduced, showing the nutri- 
tive value of the food materials used in the recipes in this 
book, calculated for the quantities commonly required in 
cooking for individuals. 

The values for larger amounts will be easily obtained by 
simple multiplication. 



64 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



TABIE SHOWING THE NUTRITIVE VALUE OF THE FOOD MA- 
TERIALS USED IN THE RECIPES IN THIS BOOK, CALCU- 
LATED FOR THE OUANTITIES COMMONLY REQUIRED IN 
COOKING SMALL PORTIONS 



FOOD MATERIAL 
(Uncooked) 



S 



I 



is >< 



A 

Almonds, Shelled 

Apples, Fresh 

" Dried 

Apricots, Dried 

Arrowroot 

Asparagus 

B 
Bacon 

Bananas 

Barley, Pearl 

" Crushed 

" Flour 

Bass, (edible portion) 

Beans, String 

Beef Broth 

Beef Juice 

Beef Marrow 

Beef Steak, Porterhouse... 
" " Rump 

u u a 

" " Sirloin 

u a K 

" " Top of Round 



1 cup 

1 medium 
1 cup 

1 cup 

1 tbsp. 

1 bunch 



1 serving 
lib. 

1 medium 

1 tbsp. 
1 tbsp. ^ 
1 tbsp. 
1 cup 

1 serving 
lib. 

1 serving 

1 serving 
1 quart 

1 serving 

1 tbsp. 
lib. 

1 serving 

lib. 

1 serving 

lib. 

1 serving 

lib. 

1 serving 

lib. ^ 



Ozs. 

5.6 

5+ 
3 



44(2?i 
lbs.) 



0.6 
16 

1 



314 
16 



32 



Cms. 

160 

ISO 
8S 

142 

14+ 

1247 



18 
454 

100 

27 

14+ 
16 
227 

100 
454 



100 
907 



u 


14.1 


16 


454 


3H 


100 


16 


454 


3H 


100 


16 


454 


3'/$ 


100 


16 


454 


3H 


100 


16 


454 



Gms. 
33.6 



0.5 
1.4 



6.6 



22.4 



1.6 

43 

0.8 

2.2 
1.1 
1.3 
19.0 

18.6 
84.3 

2.4 

1.8 
16. S 



.31 
9.92 

19.1 
86.6 
21.0 
94.8 
16.5 
74.8 
19.5 
88.45 



Gms. 
87.8 



0.5 
1.8 



10.4 
269.4 



0.3 
0.1 
0.2 
2.5 

2.8 
12.6 



1.02 
9.3 

0.6 

13.1 

420.8 

18.0 
81.2 
13.7 
62.1 
16.1 
73.0 
7.3 
33.1 



Gms. 

27.7 

16 
56.2 

88.5 

13.8 

41.0 



ESTIMATES OF FOOD VALUES 



65 



FOOD MATERIAL 
(Uncooked) 




3 


•| 


1 


!8 

il 


Gms. 


Gms. 


Gms. 


Gms. 


lOO 
454 


19.4 

87.8 


1.2 

5.44 




14+ 








71 


7.8 


1.5 


43.4 


454 


76.94 

1.20 


302.88 
4.74 


31.68 
0.05 




3 6 


14.22 


0.15 


28.4 
340 
136 


2.6 
31.6 
12.6 


0.3 
4.1 
1.6 


15.0 
179.3 
71.7 


28.4 
28.4 
386.5 


1.5 
8.4 
114 


0.5 

.30 
4. 


13.3 

8.5 

116.3 


14+ 
227 


0.1 

2.2 


12.1 
193 




57 


0.5 




4.2 


113 


2.0 


0.6 


5.2 


57 






1.4 


15 

28.4 
28 
23 


4.0 
8.0 
5.9 
6.1 


5.0 
10.0 
0.28 
8.1 


'i!2 

O.S 


100 
454 


21.4 
97.5 


2.5 
11.3 




28.4 
454 


3.65 
58.5 


13.8 
220.9 


8.59 
137.4 


100 
100 
906 


8.6 
0.2 
2.0 


1.0 
6!8 


2.0 
0.2 
1.6 


14 








7+ 


3.0 


4.1 


5.3 


100 

454 

57 

454 


16.5 

74.8 

15.7 

125.6 


0.4 
1.8 
0.2 
1.4 





B — (Continued) 
Blue Fish, (edible portion) 

Brandy 

Bran 

Brazil Nuts, Shelled 

tl u u 

u u u 

Bread, White 

*" Crumbs (dry) 

" Boston Brown 

" Gum Gluten 

Butter 

C 

Carrots 

Cauliflower 

Celery 

Cheese, American 

" " (fresh grated) 

" Cottage 

** Creamed 

Chicken, (edible portion) 

Chocolate, (unsweetened) 

Clams, (edible portion) 

Clam Bouillon 

Claret (10% Alcohol) 

Cocoa 

Cod, Fresh, (edible portion) 

Cod Fish, Salt, Boneless! '.'.'.'.'.'.'. 



1 serving 
lib. 

1 tbsp. 

1 cup 

lib. 
1 nut 
1 tbsp. 
chopped 

1 slice 
lloaf 
1 cup 
1 small 
slice 
1 slice 
lloaf 

1 tbsp. 
1 cup 



1 small 
1 serving 
1 serving 

1 tbsp. 

2 tbsp. 

1 serving 

2 tbsp. 
(IM cubic 

inch) 
1 serving 
lib. 

1 square 
lib. 

1 serving 
1 serving 
1 quart 

1 tbsp. 

1 tbsp. 

1 serving 

lib. 

1 serving 

lib. 



Ozs. 
16 

16 

Vi 
'A 
1 

12 

iH 

1 
1 

13 



2.0 
4.0 
2.0 

1 
1 



3H 
16 

1 
16 

3^ 
3M 
32 

H 

a 

3H 
16 

2 
16 



Calor- 
ies 



401 

42 

218 

3048 
47.6 

142.8 

73 
881 
352 

64 
70.3 
957.2 

109 
1744 



20 
35 
6 

62 
124 

31 
100 

108 
492 

173 
2772 

51 

2 

23 

10 

70 

70 
315 

64 
515 



66 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



FOOD MATERIAL 
(Uncooked) 


S 


1 


1 


g 


II 


1 
1 


C— (Continued) 
Condensed Milk, Eagle Brand 

a u a a 


1 teaspoon 

1 can 

1 serving 
1 quart 

1 cup 

1 tbsp. 
1 cup 

1 tbsp. 
1 cup 

1 cup 
1 large 

1 tbsp. 
1 cup 
1 tbsp. 
1 cup 

1 cup 
1 cup 

1 cup (with 
stones) 
1 tbsp. 

1 

1 
1 

1 tbsp. 
1 cup 

Ifig 

Hlb. 

lib. 
Idoz. 
1 tbsp. 
fchopped) 


Ozs. 

.388 
1 
16 

3K 
32 

10 
5 

5+ 

8 
8^ 

1 

S 
8 

8 
2 

>i 

6 

1 
8 

16 

'A 


Gms. 

11 

28.35 
450 

100 
906 

28.4 

10 

142 

10 
156 

151 
10 

14 

227 

14 

227 

28.4 

142 
227 

227 
159 

45 
25 
13 

10 
170 

28.4 
227 

454 


Gms. 

0.88 

2.27 

36.33 

2.5 
10.0 

7.9 

0.8 
13.0 

16.5 
1.2 

0.4 
5.6 
0.3 
4.99 

23 

2.12 
5.44 

4 
6 

5.4 
3.3 
2.1 

1.0 
18.7 

1.3 
9.7 

70.72 
3.3 
2 21 


Gms. 

1.057 

2.72 

43.79 

3.4 

0.2 
2.6 

9.0 
0.5 

2.8 
41.9 

6.0 
90.7 

.06 

i'.ii 

5.6 

4.2 
i'.S 

0.1 
2.3 

0.1 
0.7 

296.16 
13.89 
9.26 


Gms. 

6.07 

15.66 

250.60 

0.4 
1.6 

53.9 

7.1 
106.8 

9.5 
197.4 

110.2 
7.6 

0.7 
10.2 
0.5 
6.8 

.89 

18 
84 

160.8 
8 

7.2 
129.8 

22.2 
168.2 

58.88 
2.76 
1.84 


Calor- 
ies 

38.25 

98.59 

1579.33 

12 




46 


Corn 


278 




34 




504 




38 




790 




588 


Crackers, Water 


40 


Cream. Thin (18%) 


29 




440 


« Thick (40%) 


57 




864 


Cucumbers, Fresh (edible port'n). 


5 
81 


" Dried 


728 


D 
Dates 


710 




57 


E 
Eggs, whole average size (without 


60 


Eggs White 


13 


« Yolk 


48 


P 


34 




616 


Fiffs 


95 


T 


718 


Filberts, Shelled 


3184 


(1 u 


150 


u a 


100 







ESTIMATES OF FOOD VALUES 



67 



FOOD MATERIAL 
(Uncooked) 



g 


% 


^ 




il 




s 


1 


& 


1 


S3 >• 
















Color. 




Ozs. 


Gms. 


Gms. 


Gms. 


Gms. 


ies 


1 tbsp. 


yi+ 


16 


1.3 


0.2 


12.5 


57 


1 cup 


8 


227 


19.0 


2.5 


174.3 


796 


1 tbsp. 


a 


8 


3.46 


.12 


3. 48 


29 


1 cup 


•S 


142 


60 


2.3 


63 


512.7 


1 tbsp. 


H 


8 


1.3 


0.2 


6.8 


34 


1 cup 


5 


142 


18.8 


3.2 


101.2 


509 


1 tbsp. 




16 


1,4 


0.04 


10.2 


58 


1 cup 


«'A 


241 


18.9 


0.7 


187.8 


870 


1 tbsp. 


H 


8 


0.5 


0.07 


6.3 


28 


1 cup 


5 


142 


9.6 


1.3 


111.5 


496 


1 tbsp. 


H 


8 


0.9 


0.08 


6.0 


28 


1 cup 


s 


142 


15.9 


1.4 


106.2 


500 


1 serving 


3K 


100 


19.3 


16.3 




224 


lib. 


16 


454 


87.5 


73.9 




1015 


1 tbsp. 


%o 


8.5 


7.8 






81 


1 box 


1H 


34 


31.1 






125 


J^box 


H 


17 


15.6 






62 


1 tbsp. 


M 


8 


3.46 


.12 


3.48 


29 


1 cup 


5 


U2 


60 


2.3 


63 


512.7 


lib. 


16 


450 


191 


7.3 


200 


1629.7 


1 slice 


1 


28.4 


8.4 


.30 


8.5 


70.3 


lloaf 


13 


386.5 


114 


4 


116.3 


957.2 


1 biscuit 


Ji 


7 


2.94 


.13 


3.15 


25.5 


1 cup 


3H 


100 


45 


4.2 


32.5 


350 


1 serving 


4 


113 


2.3 


0.3 


3.6 


27 


1 dozen 


2 


57 


0.74 


0.9 


10.88 


55 


lib. 


16 


454 


4.5 


5.4 


65,3 


328 


1 tbsp. 


H 


14 






3.8 


15 


1 cup 


8 


227 






60.0 


240 


1 serving 


3^ 


100 


17.2 


0.3 




72 


lib. 


16 


454 


77.9 


1.36 




324 


1 serving 


3'4 


100 


18.6 


5.2 




121 


lib. 


16 


454 


84.3 


23.5 




549 


1 serving 


m 


100 


24.8 


14.2 




227 


lib. 


16 


454 


112.6 


64.4 




1029 


lib. 


16 


454 


69.76 


305.6 


51.68 


3234 


Jicup 


iVi 




6.54 


28.5 


4.83 


303 


(chopped) 














1 tbsp. 
(chopped) 


H 




2.18 


9.5 


1.61 


101 



F — (Continued) 

Flour, Barley 

" Gum Gluten 

" " " 

" Graham 

" Rice 'v.'';!;;::];: 

a u 

« Rye .^"V."'^!"!!""" 

U a 

" Wheat (Roller Process) 

u a UK 

Fowl, (edible portion) 

G 

Gelatin, Granulated 

" Shredded..*.*.'.'"!!!.. 
Gum Gluten Flour 

u u u 

u a a 

' Bread!!!!!!!!!!! 

" ■ Biscuit Crisp 

« " Noodles 

Greens 

Grapes, Malaga 

Grape Juice 

H 
Haddock, (edible portion) 

tl u u 

Halibut, (edible portion) 

Ham, Fresh, Lean 

u u u 

Hickory Nuts. Shelled 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



FOOD MATERIAL 
(Uncooked) 






I 






H — (Continued) 
Hominy 

Honey 

J 

JeU-O .-... 

E 
Kumyss 

L 
Lamb Chops 

(I u 

Lard 

Lemon Juice, (1 lemon) 

Lettuce 

Liquid Peptonoids 

Lobster, (edible portion) 

M 

Macaroni 

Mackerel, Fresh (edible portion) 
Salted, 

Malted Milk, Horlick's 

Milk, Whole 

" Skimmed 

Molasses 

Mutton Chops 



1 tbsp. 
1 cup 

1 tbsp. 



1 box 
1 serving 



Iqt. 



1 serving 
lib. 

1 tbsp. 
lib. 

3 tbsp. 

1 head 

1 tbsp. 

1 serving 
lib. 



1 cup 

1 serving 

lib. 

1 serving 

lib. 

1 tbsp. 

1 tbsp. 
1 cup 
1 quart 
1 tbsp. 
1 cup 
1 quart 

1 tbsp. 
1 cup 

1 serving 
lib. 



Ozs. 

H 



3.5 
.6 



34.4 



3J^ 
16 



0.5 
16 



IK 



16 



3H 

3M 
16 

3K 
16 

H 

0.7 
8.6 

34.4 
0.7 
8,6 

34.4 



16 



Gms. 



14 
227 



100 
16 



975 



100 
454 

14 

454 

42 

227 

IS 

100 
454 



100 

454 
100 

454 



20 

244 
975 
20 
244 
975 

27 
317 

100 
454 



Gms. 



1.2 
18,9 



Gms. 



0,1 
1.4 



.133 



11,2 
1.9 



2,2 



18.7 
84.8 



2,3 
0.8 



18,1 
82,08 



14.7 

18.7 
84.8 
16,3 
73.9 

2.3 

.066 
8.0 

32.2 
0.7 
8,3 

33.1 

0,6 
7,6 

16,0 
72,5 



2,1 



28,3 
128,3 



14 

484 



1,1 
4,96 



1,0 

7,1 
32.16 
17,4 
78,9 

1,2 

0.8 
9,3 
39,0 
0,06 
0,7 
2,9 



33,1 
150.1 



Gms. 



11,2 
179,2 



23.02 



186.4 
14,4 



1.5 



Calor- 
ies 



SO 
805 



92.5 



4,2 

5,7 

2,1 

0,5 
2.24 

81.1 



9.5 

1.0 
12.2 
48,8 

1.0 
12,5 
49.7 

18,7 
219,7 



395 
66 



329 
1494 

127 
4083 

17 

36 

28 

84 
382 



392 

139 
629 

222 
1007 

59,54 

14 

169 

675 

7 

89 
358 

77 
909 

362 
1640 



ESTIMATES OF FOOD VALUES 



69 



FOOD MATERIAL 
(Uncooked) 



^ 
3 






I 



N 
Noodles, Gluten 

O 

Oatmeal, Granulated 

Oats, Rolled 

Olive Oil, Nicelle 

Olives 

Onion 

Orange 

Orange Juice 

Oysters 

P 

Panopepton 

Peaches, Fresh 

Dried 

Peach Juice 

Peanuts, Shelled 

Peanut Butter 

Peas, Green 

" Canned 

Pecans, Shelled 

Pineapple, Fresh (edible portion) 
" Canned 

u u 

u a 

Port Wine {10%"'Alcohol) 

Potatoes, White 

Potatoes, Sweet 

Prunes 



Icup 



1 tbsp. 
1 cup 

1 tbsp. 
1 cup 

1 tbsp. 

2 or 3 

1 serving 

1 medium 

1 tbsp. 
1 cup 

2 

Icup 
(solid) 



1 tbsp. 

1 medium 
1 cup 
1 tbsp. 
1 cup 

1 cup 
1 tbsp. 

1 serving 
1 cup 

1 cup 



1 slice 
1 cup 
1 can 

1 tbsp. 

1 medium 
1 medium 

1 cup 
3 prunes 



Ozs. 

314 

14 






o.s 

4 

s 



4 
3 



s 

0.6 



4 
6K 



3H 



Gms. 
100 



14+ 
227 



IS 
14 



113 

142 



14 
227 



28.4 
170 



113 
85 
14 

227 

142 
16 

113 
184 



227 
85 
227 
680 



100 
100 



142 
28.4 



Gms. 

45 



1.8 
28.8 



0.7 
11.8 



0.1 
1.8 
1.2 



1.7 
10.5 



0.8 
1.4 



36.55 
4.8 



7.7 
6.6 



0.9 

.4 

0.9 

2.6 



2.2 
1.8 



2.5 
0.5 



Gms 
4.2 



0.9 
14.7 



0.3 

5.2 



15 
2.8 



0.3 
0.3 



0.3 
2.0 



0.1 
1.8 



54.7 
7.7 



0.5 
0.4 



0.7 

.6 

1.6 

4.8 



0.1 
0.7 



Calor- 
Gms. ies 



32.5 434 



9.9 

158.2 



2.7 
46.9 



1.2 

11.2 

17.4 

1.6 
25.6 

1.0 
6.3 



2.5 

11.3 

56.2 
1.1 
17.6 

34.55 
2.8 

19.6 
18.0 



22 
31 

82.6 
247 



18.4 
27.4 



88.1 
17.6 



16 
282 



135 
31 



56 

77 



6 

104 



14 ' 
84 



50 

247 

5 



777 
100 



114 
100 



98 
130.5 

348 
1044 



10 



83 
123 



363 
72 



yo 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



FOOD MATERIAL 
(Uncooked) 



^•3 





Quail 

R 
Raisins 

Raspberries, Fresh, Black, 

{edible portion) 
Raspberry Juice 

Rhubarb 

u 

Rice 

Rum 

S 
Salmon, (edible portion) 

Saltines 

Sardines,Canned 

Shad, (edible portion) 

" Roe 

Sherry 

Spinach 

Squabs 

Squash 

Strawberries, (edible portion) . . . 

Strawberry Juice 

Suet 

Sugar, Granulated 

" Loaf 

" Powdered 



1 serving 



1 dozen 
1 cup 



1 cup 
1 cup 



1 tbsp. 
1 cup 

1 tbsp. 



1 serving 
lib. 

1 wafer 

1 serving 
1 can 

1 serving 

lib. 

1 serving 

1 tbsp. 

1 serving 

1 serving 

1 serving 

I serving 
1 cup 
1 cup 

1 tbsp. 
lib. 

1 tbsp. 
1 cup 
1 lump 
1 cup 
1 tbsp. 
1 cup 



Ozs. 



1 

16 



H 



16 

K 
3H 

16 

3M 
16 
3J^ 

4 
3H 

i 

6 



16 

1% 

0.4 

6.5 

M 

6.S 



Qms. 
100 



9 

113 



142 
227 



28.4 
454 



15 
240 



100 
454 



100 
454 

100 
454 
100 

14 

Ji 

100 

100 

113 
170 
227 

14 
454 

IS 
210 

7.6 
184 

12 
184 



Gms. 
21.8 



0.2 
2.6 



0.2 
2.7 



1.1 
18.1 



22 
99.6 



23 
104.3 

18.8 
85.1 
20.9 



2.3 

16.3 

1.4 

1.0 
l.S 



.66 
21.28 



Gms. 
8.0 



0.3 
3.4 



1.4 



0.2 
3.2 



0.04 
0.7 



Gms. 



6.5 
77.6 



17.8 
22.6 



1.0 
16.3 



11.2 
179.1 



ESTIMATES OF FOOD VALUES 



71 



FOOD MATERIAL 
(Uncooked) 



S — (Continued) 
Sugar of Milk 

u u a 

Sweetbreads 

T 
Tomatoes 

Tapioca, Pearled 

** Minute Tapioca . . 
Trout, (edible portion) 

Turnip 

Turkey, (edible portion)., 
a u u 

w 

Walnuts, English 

Whey 

Whitefish, (edible portion) 



1 teaspooo 
(aver, size) 
1 tbsp 

1 serving 
lib. 
Ipair 
(med. size) 



1 tbsp. 

1 cup 

1 medium 
(whole to- 
mato) 

1 tbsp. 

1 cup 

1 tbsp. 

1 serving 
lib. 

1 serving 

1 serving 
lib. 



1 cup 

1 meat 

1 glass 

1 serving 
lib. 



Ozs. 

"'.\(A 
.564 

m 

16 



H+ 



6.5 
H 

3% 
16 

3V2 
16 



SK 



3H 
16 



Gms. 

1 
5 

16 

100 
454 
227 



15 
227 
142 



14 
184 
14 

100 
454 



100 
454 



156 
1 



184 



100 
454 









0} 






»i 


2 


d 




Afi 


^ 






.n-a 




g 




c3- 


% 


a, 


Ci. 


Ph 








Calor- 


Gms. 


Gms. 


Gms. 


ies 






100% 


4 1 






100% 


20.5 






100% 


65.6 


16.8 


12.1 




176 


76.2 


54.8 




798 


38.1 


27.4 




399 


0.2 


0.03 


0.6 


4 


2.7 


0.5 


9.0 


51 


0.5 


0.3 


3.0 


16 


0.03 




12.3 


49 


0.4 




159.5 


640 


0.03 




12.2 


49 


17.8 


10.3 




164 


80.6 


46.7 




743 


1.3 


0.2 


8.1 


39 


21.1 


22.9 




290.5 


95.7 


103.9 




1317 


25.8 


98.8 


25.1 


093 


.17 


0.63 


0.16 


7 


1.8 


0.5 


9.3 


50 


22.9 


6.S 




ISO 


103.8 


29.4 




681 



- The weights assigned to the various measurements in this table have 
been determined carefully, but are the results of a limited number of 
experiments, and hence must be regarded as only approximate. The food 
values are given with sufficient accuracy to be within the limits of error 
of computations made on average analysis of food-stuffs. 



CHAPTEE IV 
FEEDING THE SICK 

GENERA! RtJXES 

In the treatment of disease there are few questions which 
have to be considered so often in the daily routine of practice 
as those which concern the proper support and nourishment of 
the patient. 

A good nurse will never exceed or depart from the phy- 
sician's instructions ; but there are occasions when her posses- 
sion of accurate, even if limited, knowledge on the subject 
of chemical and physiological action of food will enable a 
physician to give more definite directions, greatly assisting 
him in tBe performance of his duties, and adding to the com- 
fort and well-being of the patient. 

Physician's Directions. The nurse's directions in refer- 
ence to feeding her patient should be written, stating how 
much food may be given, its form, preparation and time of 
serving. In pneumonia, typhoid and all acute serious con- 
ditions, a record of all these details should be kept, also a 
record of the quantity of fluid and medicine taken. 

The nurse has a far better opportunity than the physician 
to judge of all the conditions of the patient's digestion, and 
his likes and dislikes for different foods, and she should not 
fail to report them to the physician in charge and under- 
stand very definitely to what extent she is to be permitted to 
humor her patient, and substitute one form of food or drink 
for another. 

It may happen from lack of care or indefinite instruction, 
that the food served will neutralize the effect of the med- 
icine, either by overfeeding, or by irregularities in feeding, 



FEEDING THE SICK 73 

which disturb digestion and interfere with the beneficial ef- 
fect of the medicine. 

Those who are ill are often allowed to drift into critical 
conditions through not being properly supplied with such 
nutritive material as their enfeebled powers can digest. 
Many have perished because those around them did not know 
how to feed them, and either withheld food altogether, or 
gave that which was unsuitable, through ignorance. Even 
when the patient is confined to bed and prevented from tak- 
ing any kind of ^ voluntary exercise, he still requires heat and 
energy for the involuntary action of heart, lungs, and the 
other processes of living, and healthy nutrition must be pro- 
vided for by a supply of suitable food. 

Often the nurse may conscientiously serve one form of 
food ordered, offering it in spite of the patient's dislike and 
nausea with the result of half starving him. When her in- 
' structions have not been specific, or have not provided for 
emergencies, she should make it a point to have them clearly 
understood at the next visit of the physician. 

To be able to carry out these instructiods and ofEer nourish- 
ment intelligently, a thorough practical knowledge of dietetics 
is necessary, and should be the foundation of every nurse's 
training. If we wish to succeed in avoiding nausea, vomit- 
ing, loss of strength, and even loss of life, we must learn to 
offer food to the patient in a suitable form, in the quantity 
and at the times suited to his digestive power, and so adapt 
his food to his capabilities. 

This subject has been so ably treated by Dr. Thompson 
(Practical Dietetics, .2d ed.) in his chapter, "Administration 
of Food for the Sick," that permission has been asked, and 
kindly granted, to use extracts from that chapter; also, by 
the kindness of Mrs. Ellen H. Eichards, quotations have been 
made from the article, " Nourishment in Acute Disease," from 
the " Eumford Kitchen Leaflets." 

Feeding in Acute Disease. The preparation of food for 
those who are seriously ill is a matter of vital importance, 
for the life of the patient often depends either upon the 



74 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

maintenance of strength during the acute period of the dis- 
ease or on the recovery of power during convalescence. Since 
acute disease is accompanied by fever, we must consider the 
effect of feeding in cases where the temperature is febrile in 
character; also the amount of food, its quality and quantity, 
together with other conditions affecting its absorption. 

In acute disease accompanied by fever, what are the con- 
ditions? The body loses weight, urea is increased and car- 
bonic acid and water are excreted in larger amounts than in 
health. All of this loss is not dangerous if permitted to go 
on for a few days only, and if the amounts do not exceed 
certain limits. But to replace these losses we are at a dis- 
advantage as regards the ability of the system to assimilate 
food. In fevers the appetite is small, or may be completely 
lost. The saliva, the gastric juice, pancreatic fluid, the bile, 
are less efficient in action or diminished in amount during 
high temperature. 

The stomach is very sensitive, in part, perhaps, through 
sympathy with the increased sensitiveness of the nervous sys- 
tem as a lyhole. If 4here is much hypersesthesia of the diges- 
tive tract, as in typhoid, in peritonitis, in dysentery or gastro- 
enteritis, one must be careful not to give too much food at 
a time, and it should be in a liquid form and partially pre- 
digested. Note Typhoid Diet, page 337. 

Evidences of Digestiqn. Our attention should be devoted 
not only to what is put into the alimentary canal, but also to 
what goes out. For instance, if curds of undigested milk 
are found in the stools of a typhoid patient, the quantity of 
milk should be diminished, or it should be diluted. 

Every careful observer of the sick will agree that many 
patients are sta.rved, simply from the want of attention to 
the means which alone make it possible for them to take 
food. For example, if the patient has a fever with remis- 
sion and intermission, it is of the first importance to remem- 
ber that the ability to digest food at these intermissions is 
greater, and it is then that the most nourishing portions of 
diet should be given. 



FEEDING THE SICK 1'5 

It must be borne in mind that, contrary to the prevalent 
notion, the increase of body heat is not entirely responsible 
for the wasting of the fever patient. The emaciation is due 
partly to the inability to receive and digest the food, which 
in turn arises from the irritable state of the stomach and 
bowels and the defective secretion of the digestive fluids. 

It is the administration of unsuitable food that must be 
guarded against, and also the giving of nourishment in 
quantities and at times unsuited to the digestive powers of 
the patient. All food is changed into liquid in the process 
of digestion before it can be absorbed into the blood. Liquid 
food, therefore, is given to the very sick because it can be 
digested with the smallest amount of labor to the body. 

Predigested milk possesses the decided advantage in that 
it aids the assimilation of the milk without adding to its 
bulk, as do lime water and other substances. 

By diluting milk, stimulants and gruels too much, the 
quantity of the fluid is so great that the patient soon tires 
of swallowing, and stops before enough nourishment has been 
obtained. One should not give what cannot be digested, nor 
less than can be assimilated. So the attendant must have a 
constant watch over the condition of the patient's powers of 
digestion, and it is necessary for her to know how to choose 
such variety in the diet as to include both what is palatable 
and what will afford a proper amount of nourishment. 

The Appetite. As the appetite of the sick often requires 
tempting, the greatest pains should be taken in the prepara- 
tion of the invalid's food. The lack of desire for food may 
be due merely to defective cooking, to the serving of meals at 
inopportune moments, or to the fact that the food selected 
is not to the patient's liking in kind, flavor, or appearance. 
A desire for food may exist, but not for the particular food 
oifered, and it is the province of the nurse to differentiate. 

Punctuality in serving meals should be carefully observed, 
for an appetite ready at the accustomed hour may fail if the 
meal is delayed. There is much unconscious habit in re- 
gard to eating. Time for cooking food should be carefully 



76 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

considered with regard to the time for serving. Many foods 
properly cooked are spoiled by standing, which if served 
promptly would be delicious. The rule of serving food at 
stated intervals should be observed for the conscious as well 
as the unconscious or semi-unconscious patient. 

Quality and Quantity of Food. All foods supplied should 
be as pure and fresh as possible. Hence for the sick it is 
desirable to select the best quality obtainable. 

The amount should be regulated by the physician. "When 
this is not done, care must be taken, on the one hand to see 
that sufficient is eaten, which often necessitates tempting the 
appetite; and on the other to avoid overindulgence if the 
patient is voracious or has a fancy for certain articles of 
which large amounts are likely to be harmful. 

A well man, lying quietly in bed, requires from 1600 to 
2000 calories per day, and if the body is being wasted by 
disease, he may need a great deal more. During conva- 
lescence, if the body has lost weight, food must be given 
for rebuilding, in addition to the ordinary daily need. 

Temperature of Food. The temperature of the food served 
is exceedingly important, as it has a marked influence upon 
digestion. As a rule, foods to be served "hot" should 
neither be served lukewarm nor too hot. Serve in hot dishes 
and cover in transit. Cold food should be served neither 
lukewarm nor ice cold. Under many conditions food at ex- 
treme temperatures interferes with digestion and absorption. 

Details in Feeding. The patient should be saved from 
thinking as well as from physical exertion, and it is unwise 
to ask him what he would like to eat, for it is often the un- 
expected that pleases. Personal idiosyncrasies should be con- 
sidered; for some foods easy of digestion, if repugnant to 
the patient, may prove nauseating and be rejected or disturb 
digestion. 

Only a small quantity of food should be given at one time 
so that the digestive organs may not be overtaxed. It is 
much better to do this often than to give too much at one 
time. A tablespoonful of nourishment every half hour may 



FEEDING TEE SICK 77 

be retained and digested, and do the patient good, when if 
a larger amount were given the stomach would reject it. 

The majority of weak patients are unable to take food of 
any solid kind before eleven o'clock in the morning, yet 
before that time comes they are apt to become exhausted. 
This would not be likely to occur if a spoonful of some liquid 
nourishment or stimulant ordered by the physician were given 
every hour or two, from the early morning up to the time 
for taking the solid food, which the patient would then 
probably be able to do by noon. 

All noise in the preparation of food and smell of cook- 
ing should be kept from the sick room. The nurse should 
never eat her meal or taste the patient's food in bis presence, 
and should always have a cheerful manner and a cleanly, 
tidy appearance. These things have much effect upon the 
patient's appetite. 

Bathing and Cleansing the Mouth. When possible, it is 
well to bathe the patient's face and hands before offering a 
meal. The mouth should be- rinsed each time after eating 
with pure water, or diluted borax water (two teaspoonfuls 
to a tumbler of water). This takes away the after-taste of 
the food and he is less apt to tire of it. 

The mouth should be kept thoroughly cleansed, for if the 
lips are allowed to become parched and sour, the patient will 
refuse nourishment which he might otherwise take. When a 
patient cannot rinse his own mouth it must be frequently 
cleansed by the nurse with a swab of fresh cotton, fastened to 
a small flexible stick. A tongue scraper made of a whale- 
bone bent to a loop may be used before serving the food; 
thus the taste nerves will be uncovered and the appetite im- 
proved. 

Time and Position for Feeding. When the patient is first 
allowed to sit up for half an hour, it is well to utilize this 
time for giving the principal meal of the day, which is likely 
to be eaten with more relish, and perhaps better digested in 
consequence. If the patient is only allowed to partially sit 
up in bed, the nurse should see that the position is com- 



78 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

fortable, and that the food tray does not cramp the arms and 
legs, taking care that no crumbs get into the bed. 

Sleep and Feeding. The awakening of a patient to take 
nourishment depends upon his need of the nutriment and 
upon his ability to go to sleep again. In serious cases it 
should be given at stated intervals if the patient drops to 
sleep easily after taking it. Some patients, however, are an- 
noyed by being awakened and cannot sleep again. In such 
cases it may be that the sleep will be more beneficial than 
food. 

Feeding the Helpless Patient. The effort of sitting up 
may become fatiguing to the invalid and so destroy his appe- 
tite before the meal is half done, or he may not be able to 
feed himself, or to raise his head. In such cases the diffi- 
culty can be obviated by placing the hand beneath the pillow 
and raising both together gently. 

In feeding fluids at these times always serve in small 
tumbler, not more than two-thirds filled; see that swallows 
are not taken during inspiration, and that each mouthful is 
swallowed before another is offered. In case the head cannot 
be raised, food may be given by means of a glass tube or a 
feeding cup. 

Feeding the Unconscious Patient. The feeding of uncon- 
scious patients demands especial care. They should be given 
only liquid nourishment, and fed with a spoon, or through 
a catheter. If the jaws are set, a medicine dropper may be 
utilized; not over a teaspoonful should be given at once, and 
the nurse must be sure it is swallowed before she gives more. 
In the case of comatose children, or young infants, the nour- 
ishment may be poured into the nostril in place of the mouth. 
Feeding with the stomach tube is sometimes resorted to, when 
nasal feeding is not feasible. 

Forced Feeding. Forced feeding consists in introducing 
various liquid foods, as milk, eggs, meat-juice or extracts 
into the stomach by way of the nose or directly through the 
mouth by means of a stomach tube. This is seldom required 
of the nurse, but is usually done by the physician himself. 



FEEDING TEE SICK 1^ 

This method is employed when the unconscious patient expe- 
riences difficulty in swallowing; in gastric irritability; when 
a patient is unable to take sufficient food, owing to loss of 
appetite and disgust for food; and also in case of a refrac- 
tory patient who refuses to eat. 

Nasal Feeding. In nasal feeding a nasal tube is em- 
ployed or in case of infant a catheter. Have either well 
oiled and passed gently through the nose into the oesophagus 
and then into the stomach. Before pouring in the food wait 
a moment to see that the tube has not entered the larynx. 

Use of the Stomach Tube. The jaws must be kept open. 
In children without teeth, the finger may be employed; in 
grown persons a mouth gag or a roller bandage may be held 
between the teeth. The tube should be moistened, passed 
into the pharynx and thence rapidly into the stomach. If 
these two precautions are not observed, contraction of the 
muscles may occur, preventing the tube from entering the 
oesophagus. In passing the tube into the oesophagus, hold 
it well back from the end. When the tube is satisfactorily 
introduced, place a funnel in the free end and pour liquid 
nourishment slowly down the side of the funnel until the 
tube is filled, and the air in tube is expelled; this care pre- 
vents the air in tube entering the stomach. In removing the 
tube, it should be withdrawn rapidly in order not to excite 
vomiting. In some cases the physician orders the stomach 
washed out before introducing the food. When it is neces- 
sary to take special precautions to prevent regurgitation of 
the food, the ribs may be tickled to prevent contraction of 
the diaphragm. 

Rectal Feeding. This form of alimentation is necessary 
when the stomach cannot retain food. It is based on the fact 
that the rectal mucous membrane, while it possesses no di- 
gestive faculty, is able to absorb certain classes of nutriment. 
These include among the carbohydrates, sugars; among pro- 
teins, the native albumin as well as the end products -of pro- 
tein digestion. The latter are believed to be much more 
absorbable than the first products (albumoses and peptones). 



80 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

Soluble starch (dextrin) is doubtless absorbable, but un- 
changed starch and fats can hardly be taken up. It is prob- 
able that finely emulsified fats if thrown well up into the 
colon are absorbable to some extent. Although we cannot 
understand why certain substances nourish the patient, since 
they are theoretically not absorbable, they seem in some man- 
ner to be utilized, even when merely thrown into the rectum. 
As far as possible we should employ substances which we 
know positively to be capable of absorption; but in rectal 
feeding for a long period it is sometimes necessary to use a 
great variety of formulas, making it out of the question to 
confine ourselves to the few articles which are theoretically 
best suited for the purpose. 

The rectum may be intolerant to almost any form of enema ; 
even if retained for some time, it may be rejected without 
apparent change. Under the most favorable circumstances, 
at least three-fourths of the quantity injected will come 
away with the regular evacuation of the bowels. The amount 
of energy actually supplied must be far below the theoretical 
demands of the body. In some cases, it is of course possible 
to nourish the patient partly by the mouth and partly by 
rubbing a small amount of fatty matter into the skin. Some 
of the most available substances, such as solutions of sugar, 
are naturally irritating to the rectum. 

It is possible to keep a patient alive for weeks and even 
months by- rectal feeding, but in many cases this resource for 
one reason or another fails outright to do what is expected of 
it. Hence we cannot be too careful as to technique and 
choice of material used. Of natural substances, milk and 
eggs have been very freely used. The albumin and sugar in 
the milk are probably utilized. In an emulsion of eggs, the 
native albumin is doubtless the constituent which nourishes 
the patient. We cannot be sure of the absorption of the 
fatty matter of the milk and eggs. Both these substances are 
relatively non-irritating. Peptonized milk answers well in 
some cases. It is best to carry on the peptonization for a 
long period, until the end products of digestion form, pep- 



FEEDING TEE SICK 81 

tones themselves being often irritating. Solutions of glucose 
and dextrin are useful, alone or combined with other in- 
gredients. For example, eggs may be combined with glucose, 
or plain milk with dextrin. For variety, any of the pre- 
digested foods, whether these come in solution or dried, and 
even bouillon and beef-tea may be tried. Starch emulsion 
is soothing in the rectum and may be utilized if first mixed 
with diastase. 

The technique is most important. The rectum should 
first be cleaned by a high injection of decinormal saline 
solution, after which no attempt should be made to give a 
nourishing injection for at least an hour. It may be neces- 
sary for the physician to treat the rectum if hemorrhoids or 
great irritability exists. The patient's hips should be raised 
higher than the head to aid in retaining the enema. A tube 
specially designed for the purpose should be used, the enema 
being at body heat and allowed to flow in by gravity from 
a funnel. The amount injected should never exceed 8 oz. 
and the enema cannot be repeated oftener than every 6 
hours unless the quantity is small. As a rule, the smaller the 
enema the more frequently it may be used. After an injec- 
tion the patient should be kept perfectly quiet. 

Stimulants like black coffee and whisky are often given by 
the rectum, the whisky requiring dilution with two parts 
water. Wine is sometimes used for the purpose. Stimulat- 
ing and nutritive enemata may be combined. 

Injections of normal salt solution, seltzer water, etc., are 
sometimes used to supply the body with fluids and quench 
thirst. 

Useful additions to enemata comprise a little salt or sodium 
bicarbonate or a little starch emulsion; at times a few drops 
of laudanum are of value in aiding retention. 

One should not be discouraged by early failure, as it is 
possible for tolerance to be established. 



82 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



FOKUULAE POR BECIAI. FEEDINQ 

I. Peptone-milk, Von Leube 

250 e. c. milk =170 Cal. 

60 c. u. peptone = 100 Cal. 

II. Egg-milk, Von Leube 

250 c. c. milk =170 Cal. 

3 eggs =200 Cal. 

3 gms. salt. 

III. Starch-milk, Von Leube 

250 e. c. milk =170 Cal. 

70 gms. starch =: 250 Cal. 

IV. Sugar-milk, Von Leube 

250 u. c. milk =170 Cal. 

50 gms. grape sugar = 250 Cal. 

V. Pancreas, Von Leube 

75 gm. pancreas substance = 300 Cal. 

225 gm. beef =300 Cal. 

35 gms. fat =350 Cal. 

(This enema, in semi-solid condition, is introduced into the rectum 
and allowed to digest therein. A piston syringe with a, wide nozzle 
is required.) 

"Nutrient Enema: 

Peptonised Milk 5 *^ ^° 5 ^^ ( ^°"'" 

Whites of two eggs to six ounces ) 

Above used Per Rectum every two to four hours. 

'Nutrient Enema: 

Milk 5 ^ ( °^^ ounce ) 

German Seltzer HjO 5 ^^ (four ounces) 

Used in Icterus, every two hours. 

Nutrient Enemata — Malted Milk. 

Dissolve from three to four heaping teaspoonfuls of Horlick's 
malted milk powder in one-half pint of water, to which add one-half 
teaspoonful of salt. Use at body temperature, or two or three de- 
grees higher. 

The white of one egg may be incorporated if desired. 

Four to six ounces used per rectum every two to four hours. 

Btimulating Enema: 

Black Coffee 3 i^ (four ounces) 

Whiskey 3 " (two ounces) 



FEEDING THE SICE 83 

Salt Solution: 

Sodium chloride : 3 i (one drachm) 

Aquae O i (one pint) 

Use of Alcohol in the Sich Room. The nurse may be re- 
quired to exercise her own judgment at times in the emer- 
gency use of alcoholics in the sick room. This necessity is 
most likely to occur with those patients having incurable 
maladies where the question of harm to the organism or to 
the morals of the individual does not come into consideration. 
Consumptives often show a remarkable tolerance to alcohol, 
and receive a notable stimulating effect from it, and it 
sometimes happens that an eggnog or milk punch will enable 
an advanced consumptive to dress and make his toilet in the 
morning when .otherwise he would have to lie in bed. This 
is true to a less extent of some other incurable diseases. 
Severe acute or subacute conditions in which an alcoholic 
stimulant might require to be given in preference to any 
other for its emergency effect in averting unlooked-for cardiac 
failure comprise pyemia, septicemia and diphtheria. In the 
same class belong certain cases of acute poisoning due to 
mistakes or suicidal intent, such as those due to aconite and 
similar heart poisons. The propriety of giving alcoholics 
after simple collapse or syncope when no serious disease is 
present depends upon the nature of the case and whether 
other stimulants are available. 

Alcohol should perhaps never be given even in emergencies 
to subjects with neurosis or insanity or to victims of severe 
disease of the gastrointestinal organs. 

Keeping Ice in the Sich Room. The very best plan is to 
have a small refrigerator or a Japanese ice box, which may 
be had for a few dollars. If these little luxuries are im- 
possible, put the ice in a deep bowl, cover it with a plate, 
and place the bowl between two clean feather pillows. An- 
other simple way of keeping ice is to put it in a dish pan, 
cover with a tin lid, and wrap in flannel cloths and news- 
papers. It will keep a long time, as feathers, wool and 
paper are poor conductors of heat. 



84 • PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

Disinfecting Utensils. All dishes or utensils used in the 
sick room should be disinfected before being sent to the 
kitchen to be washed. A simple method is to scrape them 
clean and dip them in a basin of borax water (a teaspoonful 
of borax in a shallow bowl of water). In ease of infectious 
diseases all dishes and utensils should be boiled in water 
containing 3 per cent, of sodium bicarbonate for one-half an 
hour to one hour. 



CHAPTER Y, 
THE TRAY 

The writer's intention is only to suggest to the nurse the 
best and simplest methods of arranging the tray and a few 
of the important details. 

These things seem trivial, but it must be remembered that 
the horizon of the sick room is limited, and that the patient 
who has long been confined to bed with a serious illness thinks 
much of his immediate surroundings. 

He may seem too ill to notice these details, whereas he is 
only too ill to speak of them, for one feeds with the eyes quite 
as much as with the lips, and by some carelessness of the 
nurse the appetite of a refined, fastidious, or nervous pa- 
tient may be wholly destroyed. 

While the natural stimulants to appetite, such as fresh 
air, exercise and enlivening companionship, are necessarily 
wanting, the taking of food is the chief event of the day, 
and too much care cannot be bestowed upon its preparation 
and service, as, has been said, the appearance and manner of 
offering have much to do with its acceptance or rejection. 

ATTRACTIVE ARRANGEMENT OE A TRAY 

The cover and the arrangement of the tray is of the ut- 
most importance, and the slightest departure from regularity 
and immaculate cleanliness should be avoided. 

The tray should be covered with fine linen damask, with- 
out crease or wrinkle — the best you can afford. Use the 
choicest silver, daintiest china and glassware; arrange neatly 
and conveniently. Place a single rose or flower on the tray; 
a quotation, added as a variety, will often attract the atten- 
tion, and it is well, when possible, to divert the patient's 

85 



86 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

mind from his ailments while eating. This can easily be 
done in these little ways, and also by the introduction of 
some cheerful and interesting topic of conversation. 



12 


o 


9 




3 


=^\° ' / 






(\^ fr 


A\ r 


■1- 










u \ { 


\ 




4 






Y u 


)] 


H 






J w 


y y 1 








9 le a 


18 y 




;:::0 




.11 


"T lo 


? 2 





Proper Placing^ 


1 Plate. 




7 Knife. 


2 Cup and saucer. 




8 Fork. 


3 Bread and butter 


plate. 


9 Spoon. 


4 Individual creamei 


and sugar. 


10 Butter spread. 


5 Tumbler. 




11 Napkin. 


6 Individual salt. 




12 Flowers. 


13 Salad knife. 




17 After coffee spoon. 


14 Soup spoon. 




18 Soup or cereal or berry plate, 


15 Oyster fork. 




etc. 


16 Salad fork. 







N.B. — The dots between numbers 7 and 2 reading from left to 
right represent numbers 13, 14, 15, and 17. Sharp edge of knife 
turned toward plate; tines of forks, bowl of spoons, all dishes and 
tumblers placed right side up. 

How to Serve. (General Eules.) The time of cooking 
food to be served, should be carefully considered in relation 



THE TRAY 87 

to the time of serving, for most palatable food may be 
spoiled by not serving it at the proper time. 

Avoid serving too many things on tray. Cover tray with a 
clean napkin or tray cover in carrying it to its destination. 
When the dietary ordered is very limited in variety, the pa- 
tient is often gratified by having his food served in courses, 
and will eat more than if given everything at once. 

Only a small quantity should be served at one time. If 
possible, taste of all food and drinks before serving, to see 
if properly seasoned and at right temperature to serve. 

Always use separate spoon for tasting. 

Food to be served hot, should be served liot (not luke- 
warm), in heated dishes and covered in transit. 

Cold drinks and fruits are more healthful when served 
cool than ice-cold. 

When fluid foods are to be given, other receptacles should 
be used than those used for medicine, or the association of 
ideas may be strong enough to destroy what little appetite 
the patient has, and to even produce nausea. Do not fill 
cups or glasses full, but within one inch of the top. For 
individual dishes, for a luncheon, or drinks to be passed 
alone, use a small tray or plate, covered with a doily or 
folded napkin. 

The finger-bowl should be placed on a small plate, cov- 
ered with a dainty doily; fill one-fourth full of water, and 
put a few rose petals or green leaves in the water and on the 
side of the plate. 

Wlien possible, cover all foods and drinks left standing in 
the sick room. 

The tray and all traces of a meal should be removed im- 
mediately after eating. Half-emptied cups or glasses should 
never be left in the room. 

If the patient is restricted to any especial diet, vary as 
far as possible in the preparation and serving. 

The diet of the patient should be under the supervision 
of the physician, and his directions followed implicitly, for 
much unnecessary suffering, and even death, has been the 
result of giving forbidden food. 



CHAPTER VI 
METHODS OF COOKING AND CAKE OF FOOD 

Cooking is the preparation of food for eating. 

Digestibility and Nutritive Value of cooked food depends 
to a considerable extent upon the manner in which it is 
cooked and served. The time and temperature of cooking 
should be carefully considered, in relation to the constituents 
of the food material. 

Success in Cooking depends in part upon the quality of 
material used, which should be the best. The measurements 
must be accurate. Care should be exercised in combining 
ingredients and one should know the effect of various modes 
of cooking on the food under consideration. Training and 
experience are necessary for success. 

Objective Points in Cooking: 

1. To improve the flavor of food, or render it more pal- 
atable. 

2. To soften it that it may be more readily masticated and 
digested. 

3. To produce chemical changes which increase digestibil- 
ity. 

4. To destroy bacteria and parasites which may be pres- 
ent in raw food. 

Effects of Heat. Protein is coagulated by hot water and 
dry heat; cold water dissolves soluble proteins, especially if a 
little salt is present. 

Starch is converted into dextrin by dry heat at a tempera- 
ture of 320° P.; the starch granules dissolve when subjected 
to boiling water; cold water separates starch grains. 

88 



METHODS OF COOKING AND CARE OF FOOD 89 

Sugars are changed to caramel at a high temperature. 

Fats are readily decomposed by heat, with production of 
free fatty acids. 

Principles Governing the Choice of a Method of CooTcing 
Any Food. These include: (1) A knowledge of the efEects 
of heat and moisture on the digestibility of the articles to be 
cooked. (3) The relation of the method to the extraction of 
soluble portions of the food materials. 

Principal Coohing Processes: 

1. Boiling is cooking in boiling water (212° P.). Gentle 
boiling is as effective as rapid, and prevents waste of fuel if 
gas is used. 

2. Stewing is long, slow cooking in water below the boil- 
ing point— 186° F. 

3. Steaming is cooking in heat derived from the vapor of 
boiling water. It is of two types. (1) In a steamer (moist 
heat). (2) In a double boiler (dry heat). 

4. Broiling is cooking over a glowing fire or over or un- 
der a flame. Pan broiling is cooking meat in a very hot 
frying-pan without fat, turning the meat often. 

5. Baking is cooking in an oven by means of heated air. 
Eoasting is cooking before a glowing fire (direct heat). 

6. Prying is cooking in a deep bath of hot fat (tempera- 
ture ranging from 350° to 400° F.). 

Other methods are used which differ but slightly from the 
above. Braizing is a combination of stewing and baking; 
fricasseeing of frying and stewing. 

The Object of Each Cooking Process: 

1. To retain the juice as in boiling, steaming, broiling, bak- 
ing, roasting, frying. 

3. To extract the juices as in soups. 

3. Partly to retain and partly to extract the Juices as in 
stews, chowders, braising, and fricasseeing. 

Coolcing Utensils. A nurse should always have at hand a 
standard measuring cup, divided into thirds and fourths. 
Wooden spoons are preferable to metal ones for mixing and 



90 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

stirring, as metal spoons are too hard and may break oS 
bits of enamel, and are also acted upon by acids. For beating 
egg-white, a spoon-shaped wire beater should be used; for 
the yolks, a fork or Dover egg beater is preferable. Use 
round bottom utensils when stirring is necessary during the 
cooking. Use earthen bowl and wooden spoons for mixing 
batters, etc. A double boiler should be used when cooking 
any food that burns easily (as milk) ; also when foods are to 
be cooked at low temperatures. 

Blending Ingredients. There are several ways of accom- 
plishing this purpose. 

1. Stirring. This is simple mechanical mixing in which 
a mass of ingredients is made uniform. 

2. Beating or whipping consists in so manipulating a soft 
mixture as to incorporate the air. A spoon or special device 
is so applied that the bottom of the mixture is steadily lifted 
to the top. 

3. Folding-in is a term applied to the method of intro- 
ducing beaten white of egg slowly and gently into a soft 
mass, BO as to render it light, the air being retained. 

4. Cutting is used only in making pastry. Two knives are 
worked in opposite directions until the shortening is well 
incorporated in the flour. 

Suggestions as to Methods of Working. If a fire and oven 
are to be used these must be first of all attended to that they 
be in readiness when needed. All the cooking apparatus 
should be laid out and the materials to be cooked- measured 
in preparations for mixing. It is advisable to be economical 
in the use of utensils. Thus one measuring cup may some- 
times be used in succession for dry materials, liquids and 
fats, in the order named. A receptacle should be at hand 
for soiled spoons and other utensils employed in measuring 
or mixing. It is desirable to work as much as possible in a 
small space; thus the measuring and mixing should be done 
on a single table if possible. All soiled dishes should be put 
to soak; at odd moments they may be washed, dried and put 
away. The purpose underlying these principles is that the 



METHODS OF COOKING AND CABE OF FOOD 91 

nurse may go into the family kitchen and prepare food for 
the patient without in the least interfering with the regular 
kitchen work of the household. 

Ice Box and Contents. The ice box should be maintained 
in a state of absolute cleanliness. This is not difiScult in 
the case of a simple portable refrigerator without a drain 
pipe, which may be flushed out daily with boiling water con- 
taining borax or ammonia (half ounce to the gallon) . How- 
ever, in the larger kinds of portable refrigerators, and in the 
set ice boxes where a tube is necessary for drainage, all the 
compartments and shelves should be washed with soap and 
hot water at least once in a week, while every day loose par- 
ticles of food which have escaped from dishes, etc., should 
be carefully removed ; or if advisable in certain cases, the food 
and shelves may be removed and wiped or brushed off. The 
drainage pipes must be cleaned with a brush made for the 
purpose at least once a week. It is advisable to sprinkle 
borax on the shelves after cleaning. Certain pungent articles 
can not be kept in an ice box without flavoring other foods 
such as butter, milk, etc. 

Institutions, if large enough, may use a refrigerating plant, 
which does away in part with the handling of ice; or by the 
aid of an ice machine, superintendents may assure them- 
selves of the purity of all ice designed for internal use. 

The drain pipe of an ice box should not, for obvious rea- 
sons, communicate with the sewerage system. 

The temperature in the food compartments is sometimes 
much warmer than one would imagine; and it is desirable 
to get some idea of what the temperature fluctuations are by 
using a thermometer. The reading can hardly go lower than 
40° P. and should not be over 60° P. 

The ice cake should be wrapped in cloth or paper, not only 
for economy's sake but because it may be dirty inside or out- 
side. No food should be placed in the box while warm, for 
the sudden cooling may set up undesirable changes. Canned 
food should not be placed on ice in the opened can, but in a 
fresh receptacle. When possible, each article should be 



92 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

placed in a separate container, or wrapped in paper. Mois- 
ture in the ice box, while unavoidable, should be kept down 
by wiping walls and shelves dry at intervals. 

CAKE OF FOOBi 

The care of food between the time of purchase and cooking, 
and that of cooking and serving is highly important. The 
fact that spoiled food represents an economic loss, important 
as it is, is much less significant than the fact that not only 
spoiled food, but good food which is contaminated with germ 
life, is a possible source of disease. 

Exposed food, i. e., food exposed to dust, insects, etc., be- 
comes contaminated with disease germs without necessarily 
becoming spoiled or in any way offensive to the senses. The 
most crisp salad or luscious fruit may be covered with dan- 
gerous microorganisms. 

By far the most frequent and abundant forms of micro- 
• organisms, which grow at such rate as quickly to become vis- 
ible to the naked eye, are molds. These are not on the whole 
harmful to man, and their chief significance is that they give 
to foods a bad flavor and cause a certain amount of decompo- 
sition. These organisms attack food which is stored in dark, 
damp places, chiefly cellars, and although themselves gen- 
erally harmless, they are likely to be associated with poisonous 
bacteria. Certain butchers hang steaks until they become 
covered with mold, but the mold does not make the meat ten- 
der and highly flavored, for these changes are due largely 
to the bacteria of putrefaction which are also present, thriv- 
ing under the same conditions as does the mold. 

In case of substances which have a natural protective cov- 
ering, it is highly important that this should not be broken 
in handling. Thus when fruits and vegetables are bruised, 
the pulp is quickly attacked by microorganisms and local 
changes occur, resulting in economic waste, since such articles 
can only be partly utilized. 

^ For further information, note " Care of Food in the Home." Farmers' 
Bulletin, No. 375 U. S. Dept. of Agriculture, "Washington, D. C. 



METHODS OF COOKING AND CARE OP FOOD 93 

~ Foods should therefore be stored in places which admit 
plenty of sunlight and air, which will antagonize the growth 
of molds and putrefactive bacteria. Ice, by producing tem- 
peratures unfavorable for the growth of microorganisms, is 
a valuable aid in this sort of cleanliness. Some use of soap 
and water is necessary, but the benefits are partly lost if the 
shelves, etc., are left damp. In cellars repeated whitewashing 
is the most available resource for cleanliness. 

Food should be bought in the freshest and cleanest state, 
should be placed in clean containers, and handled with clean 
hands. Foods should always be washed if there is any suspi- 
cion of contamination. The cases of violent cholera morbus 
which often follow the use of unripe apples, and even of ripe 
fruit like cherries, are believed to be due not to the irritating 
acids present in fruit, but to the presence of a well-known 
bacterium mingled with the dust which collects on such fruit. 
To be absolutely on the safe side, all fruits and vegetables 
should be eaten cooked, but this would deprive us of salads 
and fresh fruits and berries which form so large and pleas- 
urable a part of the average dietary. It has been found by 
experience that if celery, greens, asparagus, berries, etc., are, 
washed repeatedly in cool or tepid water, they can at last 
become quite clean without losing their delicate flavor and 
consistency. As long as a particle of grit is present there is 
of course possibility of contamination by living organisms. 
They should be washed, therefore, until the wash water is 
clear. This is a rule which applies to all food that is to 
be eaten raw. With cooking such caution is not absolutely 
necessary. Potatoes, etc., are washed before boiling for 
esthetic reasons only. 

The worst cases of food poisoning, known as ptomaine 
poisoning, are mysterious in character, and are not entirely 
preventable. Chemical substances not usually formed in sim- 
ple decomposition are responsible. They may be present alike 
in raw, cooked, or frozen foods, and in fresh and preserved 
foods. In some cases there is abundant evidence of extreme 
decomposition. The use of rotten eggs in cookery by bakers 



94 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

has caused severe ptomaine poisoning. Cold storage meats 
are sometimes responsible. Pish poisoning, especially with 
shell fish, may be due to some unknown disease of the ani- 
mals themselves (although fish very readily undergo decom- 
position), and personal susceptibility is often a factor. The 
numerous cases of ice cream poisoning are usually due to 
mistakes of amateurs who do not understand the proper re- 
quirements of the art. Although we do not understand and 
cannot always foresee ptomaine poisoning, it is the more 
important that no step be neglected which will contribute in 
theory to securing clean food. Most cases occur in prolonged 
warm weather in which decomposition is favored. Sound, 
fresh food, thoroughly cooked and eaten at once could hardly 
cause ptomaine poisoning under any conditions. 

The articles which the ordinary careful nurse must think 
of in this connection are preserved foods of all kinds, shell 
fish, and milk products, the latter being of most significance, 
because milk, fresh cream, ice cream, etc., are often given 
freely to invalids. The care of milk, drinking water and 
other kinds of food is considered elsewhere. 

Special care of food in respect to fly pollution has become 
necessary since we have learned of the part played by this 
insect in causing typhoid fever, cholera, dysentery, etc. Both 
the feet and the excrement of flies are sources of contamina- 
tion. Dealers in food-stuffs in the main take but little pains 
against protecting their wares from fly contamination. Cook- 
ing and careful washing of food to be eaten raw, are our 
principal safeguards in respect to food as it reaches the house. 
There is the added danger that food when ready for con- 
sumption will be freshly contaminated. To obviate this, 
doors and windows of kitchens and dining rooms must be 
properly screened, and flypaper and similar precautions em- 
ployed. If typhoid is epidemic in a neighborhood, it is well 
to avoid raw food entirely, just as we avoid unsterilized water 
and milk. Plies are much more likely to abound in neighbor- 
hoods where manure, garbage, etc., are allowed to accumulate, 
and are more dangerous than ordinary dust. 



METHODS OF COOKING AND CARE OF FOOD 95 

Dealers usually are at some pains to keep their supplies free 
from dust, though their methods are not always sanitary, 
e. g., the use of the feather duster for fruit. Dust from the 
streets of cities abounds in germ life. Vegetables and cer- 
tain fruits in clusters which cannot be wiped (grapes, cur- 
rants, etc.) are most likely to be dusty. Washing succes- 
sively in a number of waters will usually remove the dust; 
but in the tropics where many diseases are dust-borne it is not 
considered safe to eat raw grapes at all. Whether washing 
is sufficient depends on the character of the dust and the 
degree of exposure to it. 

Preserving Foods. Foods to be preserved should be per- 
fectly fresh. Yeo gives four methods of preservation: 

(1) Drying is the method most available for preserving 
peas, beans, prunes, apricots and other fruits. Milk and eggs 
may both be preserved by desiccation. 

(2) Exclusion of air may be applied in several ways. 
Smoking, which coagulates the outer surface and sterilizes 
it, serves for preserving ham, bacon, fish, etc. Packing in 
sawdust, etc., or dipping in wax preserves eggs. Canning in 
tins or jars under steam heat is used for preserving many 
kinds of food, all air thus being forced out before the can or 
jar is hermetically sealed. 

(3) Freezing and cold storage are used extensively .for 
preserving fish, meat, jams, etc. Such foods must be cooked 
immediately upon thawing. 

(4) Antiseptics are used very extensively in food preserva- 
tion. The oldest and most widely known of these are salt, 
vinegar, alcohol and syrups. More recently a great variety 
of antiseptic chemicals have been used — benzoate of soda, 
salicylic acid, etc., etc. The advisability of their use, even 
in minute quantities, is questionable. 

Concentration. Most foods can be reduced to a dry or 
otherwise condensed state without loss of nutritive value or 
danger of decomposition; and on account of the resulting 
economy in price and storage room may enter into the dietaries 
of hospitals and institutions. Sugar, oil and starch, and 



96 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

many cereal products, are already in a state of concentration. 
Powdered milk and meat, egg powder, etc., are coming more 
and more into use. Condensed milk has long been a useful 
product (see milk and milk preparations), as have dried and 
evaporated fruits and vegetables. All these products can be 
used in cookery. Their chief use as mainstays will doubtless 
be in cases of temporary shortage of fresh foods, due to 
devastating storms, " strikes " and other happenings which 
interrupt traflSc. 

Predigestion of Food. Much is written against the use of 
predigested foods as a steady diet for the well. Many starchy 
foods on the market are partially digested by heat. The 
objection seems to rest on the theory that such foods give the 
digestive fluids and muscles of the digestive organs nothing 
to do, and that a sort of sluggishness is set up. It cannot 
be said truthfully that these claims have ever been backed 
up by facts. No one denies that thorough mastication is a 
great advantage, and with thorough mastication much of the 
starch is predigested in the mouth, or, after swallowing, in 
the fundus of the stomach. Predigested proteins are not used 
as staple foods, and as little is gained by very finely masti- 
cating flesh foods, the stomach has plenty of work in digest- 
ing animal proteins. If there is fat in the diet the pancreas 
can. never fall into a state of disuse. Hence the outcry 
against partially predigested breakfast foods does not seem 
justified on this score. It is true, however, that their absence 
of flavor, and the soft and pulpy character of some of them 
are recognized as possible drawbacks; for semi-solid and 
pultaceous foods are difficult to masticate, while their in- 
sipidity does not flavor a flow of digestive fluids. If ad- 
herence to these foods causes sluggish digestion and inability 
to deal with food in more natural condition, one would impute 
this not to predigestion, but to the fact that the tastelessness 
and the ease with which they may be bolted, are the real 
factors which bring about a passive state of the digestive 
functions. 



METHODS OF COOKING AND CABE OF FOOD 97 

In a diet for the ill, the dyspeptic, the convalescent, etc., 
there can be no possible objection to predigestion ; on the con- 
trary, it is highly desirable up to a certain extent. But just 
as soon as possible the patient should return to foods in the 
natural state, bearing in mind that a small minority of 
eases, even the acutely ill, thrive on food which in theory 
would be hazardous to say the least. Apparently hopeless 
cases of sepsis have seemingly been rescued by placing pa- 
tients on food suited only for the healthy. Such patients 
must, however, have a natural appetite and be able to tolerate 
the food. 

Adulteration of Food. " Since the passage of the National 
Pure Food and Drugs Act, giving to the United States Gov- 
ernment authority to enforce stringent laws against the adul- 
teration and misbranding of foods which enter into inter- 
state commerce, and the more rigid enforcement of similar 
state laws which regulate these matters in many of the states, 
a great burden has been lifted from the shoulders of the buyer. 
This legislation has enormously decreased the deceptions 
formerly practiced by some manufacturers, and since it in- 
sures that the name and description on bottle and package 
shall not misrepresent the contents, the buyer, if he knows 
what he wants, will have no difficulty in obtaining it, while 
the honest manufacturers and dealers (and they have with- 
out doubt always outnumbered the others) will also be pro- 
tected. This matter in its various aspects is taken up in 
publications of the Bureau of Chemistry ^ of this Depart- 
ment." ^ For Table of Common Adulteration of Food- 
stuffs, note Farmer's Bulletin !N"o. 25, of the United States 
Department of Agriculture, Division of Chemistry, Washing- 
ton, D. C. 

'U. S. Dept. Agriculture Bureau of Chemistry, Bulletin 100; Year Book 
1907, p. 321. 

2 U. S. Dept. Agriculture, Bureau of Chemistry, Bulletin 325, p. 19. 



CHAPTEE VII 
MEASURES AND WEIGHTS 

Accurate measurement is necessary to insure success in 
cooking. 

All dry ingredients, such as flour, meal, confectioners' or 
powdered sugar, should be sifted before measuring. 

Mustard, cream of tartar, soda, and salt should be stirred 
before measuring, to lighten and free from lumps. 




A Standard Measuring Cup 

A standard measuring cup contains one-half pint and is 
divided into fourths and thirds. 

To measure a cupful of dry material, put in the ingredients 
by spoonfuls, round slightly and level with back of case- 
knife, being careful not to shake cup. 

A cupful is measured level with the brim. 

A heaping cupful is measured level, with two table spoon- 
fuls extra added. 

A scant cupful is measured level, with two table spoonfuls 
taken out. 

All ingredients measured by the tablespoon or teaspoon ar& 
measured level. 

98 



MEASURES AND WEIGHTS 



99 



To measure a spoonful, fill the spoon and level it ofE with 
the back of case-knife. 




To measure a half-spoonful, first measure a spoonful and 
then cut it in halves, lengthwise. 

To measure a quarter-spoonful, measure a half-spoonful 
and divide it into half, crosswise, allowing a little more for 
tip of spoon. 

A saltspoon is one-fourth of a level teaspoon. 

A speck is a little less than one-eighth of a teaspoon. 

To measure butter, lard, and other solid fats, pack solidly 
into spoon or cup and level with knife. 

When recipe calls for one tablespoon (or so) of hutter 
meMed, measure before melting. When recipe calls for one 
tablespoon (or so) of melted luiter, measure after melting. 

TABLE OF MEAStJKES AND WEIGHTS 

4 saltspoons =1 teaspoon, tsp. 

3 teaspoons =1 tablespoon, tbsp. 

4 tablespoons = i cup or J gill. 

16 tablespoons (dry ingredients)..... = 1 eup, c. 

16 tablespoons (liquid) =1 cup. 



100 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



2 gills = 1 cup. 

2 cups ^1 pint. 

2 pints = 1 quart. 

4 quarts = 1 gallon. 

2 tablespoons butter := 1 ounce. 

1 tablespoon melted butter = 1 ounce. 

4 tablespoons flour := 1 ounce. 

2 tablespoons granulated sugar ^1 ounce. 

2 tablespoons liquid = 1 ounce. 

2 tablespoons powdered lime =1 ounce. 

1 cup of stale bread crumbs =2 ounces. 

1 square Baker's unsweetened chocolate .... =1 ounce. 
Juice of one lemon = ( about) 3 tablespoons. . . 

5 table spoons liquid =1 wineglassful. 

4 cups of sifted flour =1 pound. 

2 cups of butter (packed solid) ^1 pound. 

2 cups of finely chopped meat (packed solidly) = 1 pound. 

2 cups of granulated sugar =1 pound. 

2i cups of powdered sugar =1 pound. 

2i cups brown sugar =1 pound. 

2§ cups oatmeal = 1 pound. 

41 cups rolled oats := 1 pound. 

9 to 10 eggs =1 pound. 

1 cup of rice = J pound. 

APOTHECARIES WEIGHTS 

20 grains = 1 scruple, 3 

3 scruples = 1 drachm, 3 

8 drachms (or 480 grains) =1 ounce, 3 

12 ounces = 1 pound, lb. 

APOTHECARIES MEASURES 

60 minims (M) ^ 1 fluid drachm, f 3 

8 fluid drachms =1 fluid ounce, f 5 

16 fluid ounces =1 pint, or pt. 

2 pints = 1 quart, qt. 

4 quarts = 1 gallon, gal. 

APPBOXIUATE MEASURES 

One teaspoonful equals about 1 fluid drachm. 

One dessertspoonful equals about 2 fluid drachms. 

One tablespoonful equals about 4 fluid drachms. 

One wineglassful equals about 2 ounces. 

One cup (one-half pint) equals about 8 ounces. 



MEASURES AND WEIGHTS lOf 

METRIC SYSTEM 

For the origin and underlying principles of the metric 
system consult any modern arithmetic (Milne's Standard, for 
example). The nurse should know the metric tables and the 
equivalents between the metric and common systems for meas- 
ures of volume and weight. She does not require linear and 
square measure, nor measures of capacity except in a few 
instances. 

The subjoined tables and equivalents will sufiBce. 

TABLES 
Measures of Volume 

In measuring small quantities the cubic centimeter is the 
unit. 

1 cubic centimeter = 1.0 cc. 

10 cubic centimeters = 10.00 cc. 

1 cubic millimeter = 0.1 cc. 

1-100 cubic millimeter I __ q qqj 

1-1000 cubic centimeter 

etc., etc. 



:} = 



MEASURES OF WEIGHT 

In measures of weight the gram is the unit. 

1 gram 1-0 gm. 

1 decigram 0.1 gm. 

1 centigram 0.01 gm. 

1 milligram 0.001 gm. 

TABLE OF EQUIVALENTS 

Appended is a table of all the denominations of weights 
and measures, opposite which are placed the metric system, 
with corresponding equivalents in wine measure and avoirdu- 
pois weights : 



103 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



LIQUIDS 


APPROXIMATE 
EQUIVALENT 


EXACT 

EQUIVALENT 




0.06 Cubic centi- 
metre 
4 Cc. 
30 Cc. 

118 Cc. (i Liter) 
236 Cc. (i Liter) 
473 Cc. {i Liter) 

1 Liter (1000 Cc.) 

2 Liters. 
4 Liters. 


0.061 Cc. 


1 fl. drachm 

1 fl. oz 


3.696 Cc. 
29.574 Cc. 


4-fl. ozs. or J pint .... 

8 fl. ozs. or J pint 

16 fl. ozs. or 1 pint. . . . 

2 pints 

4 pints or i gallon . . . 
1 gallon 


118.295 Cc. 
236.590 Cc. 
473.197 Cc. 
.946 Liter. 

1.892 Liters. 

3.785 Liters. 






1 Cubic centimeter. 
4 Cc 


16 minims. 
1 fluid drachm. 
I fl. oz. (4 fl. drs.) 
61 fl. drs. 

1 fl. oz. 

2 fl. ozs. 
3J fl. ozs. 

4 fl. ozs. (i pint) 
44 fl. ozs. 
8 fl. ozs. (i pint) 
8i fl. ozs. 
10 fl. ozs. 
1 pint. 

1 pint 1 fl. oz. 

2 pints. 

2 1-10 pints. 
1 gallon. 


16.23 mins. 
1.082 fl. drs. 


15 Cc 


4.057 fl. drs. 


25 Cc 


6.762 fl. drs. 


30 Cc 


1.014 fl. ozs. 


60 Cc 


2.029 fl. ozs. 


100 Cc 


3.381 fl. ozs. 


120 Cc 


4.057 fl. ozs. 


125 Cc 


4.227 fl. ozs. 


235 Cc 


7.945 fl. ozs. 


250 Cc 


8.453 fl. ozs. 


300 Cc 


10.144 fl. ozs. 


470 Cc 


15.892 fl. ozs. 


500 Cc 


1.056 pints. 
2.007 pints. 
2.113 pints. 
1.056 gals. 


950 Cc 


1000 Cc. (1 Liter).... 





SOLIDS 


APPROXIMATE 
EQUIVALENT 


EXACT 
EQUIVALENT 


1-500 grain 


0.00013 Gm. 
0.00043 Gm. 
0.00054 Gm. 
0.00065 Gm. 
0.001 Gm. 

( 1 milligramme, ) 


0.000129 Gm. 


1-150 gr 


0.000432 Gm. 


1-120 gr 


0.000540 Gm. 


1-100 gr 


0.000648 Gm. 


1-64 gr 


0.001013 Gm. 







MEASURES AND WEIGHTS 



103 



SOLIDS 


APPROXIMATE 
EQUIVALENT 


EXACT 
EQUIVALENT 


1-50 gr 


0.0013 Gm. 
0.0016 Gm. 
0.002 Gm. 
0.0026 Gm. 
0.0065 Gm. 
0.021 Gm. 
0.065 Gm. 
0.3 Gm. 
( 3 dedgrammes. ) 

1 Gm. 

2 Gm. 
4 Gm. 
3.5 Gm. 

14.2 Gm. 

28 Gm. 

56 Gm. 
113 Gm. 
225 Gm. 
450 Gm. 
900 Gm. 


0.001296 Gm. 


1-40 sr 


0.001620 Gm. 


1-32 2T 


0.002025 Gm. 


1-25 2T 


0.002592 Gm. 


1-10 gr 

1-3 gr 


0.006479 Gm. 
0.021599 Gm. 


1 s^ 

5 errs 


0.064798 Gm. 
■ 0.324 Gm. 


15 ers 


0.972 Gm. 


30 grs 

60 grs 


1.944 Gm. 
3.888 Gm. 


1 oz 


3.544 Gm. 


J oz 


14.175 Gm. 




28.350 Gm. 




56.699 Gm. 


i lb 


U3.398 Gm. 


1 lb 


226.796 Gm. 


1 lb 


453.592 Gm. 


2 lbs 


907.185 Gm. 






1 milligramme 

(0.001 Gm.) .... 
10 milligrammes 

(0.01 Gm.) 

(=1 centigramme.) 
100 milligrammes 

(0.1 Gm.) 

(=1 decigramme.) 


1-65 grain. 
1-6 gr. 

H grs. 

15J grs. 

60 grs. (1 dr. Troy) 

i oz. 
i oz. 

1 oz. (437 J grs.) 

2 ozs. 

3i ozs. 


0.015 grain. 
0.154 gr. 

1.543 grs. 
15.4324 grs. 


4 Gm 


61.729 gra. 


10 Gm. (1 deka- 

gramme) 

25 Gm 


154.324 grs. 
385.81 grs. 


28 Gm 


432.107 grs. 


56 Gm 


1 oz. 426.7 grs. 


100 Gm. (1 hekto- 

gramme ) 


3 ozs. 230.7 grs. 


113 Gm 


4 ozs. (i lb.) 
7 ozs. 


3 ozs. 431.3 grs. 


200 Gm 


7 ozs. 24 gra. 



104 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



SOLIDS 



APPEOXIMATE 
EQUIVALENT 




EXACT 
EQUIVALENT 



7 ozs. 410 grs. 

8 ozs. 353 grs. 
15 ozs. 382 grs. 

1 lb. 1 oz. 279 grs. 

1 lb. 15 ozs. 327 grs. 

2 lbs. 3 ozs. 120 grs. 



225 Gm 

250 Gm 

450 Gm 

500 Gm 

900 Gm 

1000 Gm. (1 kilo- 
gramme or Kilo 



TABLE FOR PREPARING PERCENTAGE SOIXTTIONS 

Public Charities and the Department of Bellevue and Allied 
Hospitals 1 

One fluid ounce of water, or 480 minims, weighs 456.4 
grains. One pint of water, or 7680 minims, weighs 7300, or 
practically 7300 grains. Hence, a 10 per cent, solution, for 
instance, is one which contains 730 grains of some substance 
in 1 pint. 

The following table will show at a glance the quantity of 
any substance, iy weight, required to prepare one pint of a 
solution : 



1. To Prepare One Pint of a Solution 



EEQUIRED TO CONTAIN OF A CERTAIN 
SUBSTANCE 



PEE CENT. 



TAKE OF THE SUBSTANCE 
BELOW STATED AMOUNT 
IN GRAINS WITH 

ENOUGH WATER TO 
MAKE 1 PINT. 



1 per cent. 



■nnr 

1 

TIT 
1 
"JIT 

1 



1 in 10,000 



Grains 



1 
1 
1 in 



in 
in 



1 in 



1 in 



5,000 
4,000 
3,000 
2,500 
2,000 
1,500 
1,000 



0.73 
1.46 
1.83 
2.44 
2.92 
3.65 
4.87 
7.30 



(ii 
(U) 
(13) 

(2J) 
(3) 
(3i) 
(43) 
(7i) 



^ Arranged by the Public Charities and the Department of Bellevue and 
Allied Hospitals. 



MEASURES AND WEIGHTS 



105 



REQUIBED TO CONTAIN OF A CEETAIN 
SUBSTANCE 



i 
i 
i 
i 
1 
li 

2 

2i 

3 

4 

5 
10 
20 
25 
50 



PER CENT. 



per cent 



Grains 




TAKE OF THE SUBSTANCE 
BELOW STATED AMOUNT 
IN GRAINS WITH 

ENOUGH WATER TO 
MAKE 1 PINT. 



14.60 

18.25 

24.33 

36.50 

73.00 

97.33 

146.00 

182.50 

219.22 

292.00 

365.00 

730.00 

1460.00 

1825.00 

3650.00 



(14J) 
(181) 
(24i) 
(36J) 
(73) 
(97) 
(146) 
(180) 
(220) 
(290) 
(365) 
(730) 
(1460) 
(1825) 
(3650) 



2. To Prepare One Fluid Ounce of a Solution 



REQUIRED TO CONTAIN OF 
A SUBSTANCE 



TAKE OF THE SUBSTANCE 



0.1 per cent 
0.5 

1 

2 " 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 
10 





APPBOX. 




0.46 grain (J 


gr.) 




2.28 ' 


(21 






4.56 • 


(4i 






9.13 ' 


(9 




And 


13.69 ' 


(13i 




enough 


18.26 ' 


' (181 




water 


22.82 ' 


(23 




to 


27.38 ' 


' (27i 




make 


31.95 ' 


(32 




1 fluid ounce 


36.51 ' 


• (36i 






41.08 • 


' (41 






45.64 ' 


' (45i 







106 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

THEBHOUETRY 

The thermometers used by the nurse in cookery, in regu- 
lating the heat of the room or in taking the patient's tempera- 
tures are chiefly of the Fahrenheit scale. Scientists employ 
the Centigrade scale in most countries. While thermometers 
are made with both scales, it is a simple matter to translate 
the ordinary Fahrenheit to Centigrade. 

The freezing point of the latter is 0°, while that of the 
former is 32° above 0. 

The boiling point of the latter is 100°, while that of the 
former is 212°. 

Hence, to change Fahrenheit to Centigrade, we subtract 
32° from 212° in order that the freezing points correspond, 
which leaves 180° F.^ 100° C. A degree Centigrade is 
therefore 6/9 of a degree Fahrenheit. 

To change Centigrade to Fahrenheit, every Fahrenheit de- 
gree is 9/5 times as large as a Centigrade degree. It is also 
necessary to add 32° to the result. 

Examples: Change 212° Fahrenheit to Centigrade. 
212°— 32°=i 180° X 5-9 = 100° C. 
Change 100° Centrigrade to Fahrenheit. 
100° X 9-5 = 180° + 32° = 212° P. 



PART II 

BEVERAGES 

AKIMAL FOODS 

VEGETABLE POODS 

|]SrUTEITIOUS DESSERTS 



CHAPTEE VIII 

BEVERAGES 

ACID — AlBUMINOTJS — STARCHY — MISCELLANEOUS BEVER- 
AGES, INCLTTSING TEA, COFFEE, CHOCOLATE, AND COCOA, 
AND SPECIAL NON-NUTRITIVE BEVERAGES 

Beverages serve primarily to relieve thirst. The universal 
beverage is vrater.^ Other beverages answer the same pur- 
pose, because their chief constituent is water. They are also 
taken for their temperature — cold or hot; for their flavor, 
which helps to arouse or appease the appetite; or for their 
stimulating properties. Usually they have little or no energy 
value, but when made with milk, eggs, cocoa, chocolate or 
other highly nutritive materials, they become a valuable 
means of administering food in a liquid form. 

All beverages need to be made with much care and served 
daintily. Hot drinks should be served at a temperature of 
182-140° P. When water is used it should be freshly 
drawn, brought to a boil and used at once. This serves to 
sterilize it and also to develop a better flavor. 

Cold drinks should be given thoroughly cooled, but iced 
liquids lower the temperature of the stomach unless sipped 
very slowly, and thus tend to retard digestion. They are 
therefore better for serving between meals than with them. 
Do not use ice in a beverage unless it is made from pure water, 
but cool by placing the receptacle on ice. Use a separate 
spoon, and taste every beverage just before serving to be sure 
it is properly seasoned and of correct temperature. 

Never allow a drink to stand any length of time in a sick 
room. If it has to be carried any distance, be sure that it 
is covered. 

iSse Water, page 23. 

109 



110 BEVERAGES 



ACID BEVERAGES 

Beverages made from fruit juices are cooling and refresh- 
ing, and hence especially grateful to fever patients. They 
are valuable for the organic acids, mineral matter, and sugar 
which they contain. Some of them, as lemonade and orange- 
ade, have an added value in their diuretic and diaphoretic 
action. The organic acids are useful in constipation, as they 
stimulate peristaltic action. These acids vary with the kind 
of fruit; thus, apples contain malic acid; lemons, citric acid; 
grapes, tartaric acid, etc. These acids, as elsewhere stated,^ 
occur in the form of acid salts, usually of potassium, and in 
the body are changed to carbonates, which preserve the alka- 
linity of the blood. Eipe pineapple juice contains a ferment 
capable of digesting proteins. 

Wash lemons and oranges, and in using the juice remove 
the seeds, as they give a bitter taste. When the rind of lemon 
or orange is undesirable medicinally, it should not be used. 

Serve acid beverages daintily in glasses or sherbet cups 
(three-fourths filled), pass on small tray or plate, covered 
with doily, and add a few wafer crackers, or a single flower. 

Sweetening Acid Drinks. For the diabetic, sugar must be 
replaced by Sweetina. 

Whenever cold water is to be used instead of very hot or 
boiling water in preparing the drinks, it is preferable to use 
" sugar syrup " for sweetening in place of sugar, which re- 
quires time for solution. 

As the acidity of fruit varies considerably with the kind, 
and with the season of year, this fact must be borne in mind 
while preparing the foregoing recipes, otherwise too much 
sugar may be added. 

SUGAR STRTTP, 420 CALORIES 

% cup of sugar. % eup of boiling water. 

Mix the sugar and water and stir until the sugar is dis- 

^ See Mineral Matter, p. 31. 



ACID BEVERAGES 111 

solved. Boil slowly, without stirring, for fifteen minutes; 
cool slightly and bottle. 

LEUONADE, 137 CALOKIES 

1 lemon. 2 tablespoons sugar. 
% cup boiling water. % thin slice lemon. 

Wash and wipe lemon; cut a very thin slice from middle. 
Squeeze juice into a bowl (keeping back the seeds), add the 
sugar and boiling water; cover, and put on ice to cool. 
Strain and pour into a glass or sherbet cup. 

Cut half the slice of lemon into two pieces, and use as 
garnish in glass; or a few berries or slice of orange may be 
used. 

Kote. — The quantity of sugar used depends upon the 
acidity of fruit. 

FRUIT lEMONADE 

Add fresh fruit of all kinds to strong lemonade, using boil- 
ing water for the beverage, cool, and chill on ice. 

BRAN LEKONADE, 20 CALORIES 

% cup wheat bran. Juice 1 lemon. 

2 cups cold water. 

Allow the bran and water to stand overnight. Strain, and 
add the juice of the lemon. 

SODA OR APOLLINARIS LEMONADE, 137 CALORIES 

Juice of 1 lemon. % teaspoon soda, free from 

1 or 2 tablespoons sugar. lumps. 
% cup cold water. 

Prepare the lemonade to taste, cool, add the soda, stir 
thoroughly, and drink while effervescing. 

Note. — Put glass on plate when soda is added. Water and 
soda may be omitted and Apollinaris water substituted. 

PINEAPPLE LEMONADE, 186 CALORIES 

% cup grated pineapple or juice. % cup boiling water. 
Juice 1 lemon. 1 cup ice-cold water. 

2 tablespoons sugar. 



113 BEVERAGES 

Mix pineapple, lemon juice and sugar, and add the boiling 
■yrater. Cool, add ice-cold water, strain and serve. 

Note. — Canned pineapple may be used or Hawaiian pine- 
apple juice. 

IRISH HOSS lEKONASE, 25 CALORIES i 

^ cup Irish moss. 4 tablespoons lemon juice. 

2 cups cold water. Sugar. 

Soak, pick over and wash the moss (soaking 15 minutes). 
Drain and add the cold water; cook in top of double boiler 
about 20 minutes or until syrupy. If it becomes too thick, 
add hot water. Strain, add the lemon juice and sugar to 
taste. Eeheat and serve hot. 

Excellent for sore throat and cold on the lungs, or any 
inflammation of the mucous membrane. 

GRAPE LEMONADE, 200 CALORIES 

Make one cup lemonade, rather sweet, add one-fourth cup 
Welch's Grape Juice. 

EGG LEMONADE 

See " Albuminous Beverages " for recipe. Page 121. 

ORANGEADE, 197 CALORIES 
1 sour orange. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

% cup boiling water. % slice orange. 

Prepare as for lemonade. If orange is not very acid, add 
a little lemon juice or use less sugar. 

ORANGEADE NO. II, 77 CALORIES 
Put two tablespoons of crushed ice in dainty glasses and 
pour the juice of one orange over it. Sweeten if desired. 

FRUITADE, 45 CALORIES 
% cup grated pineapple 1 cup boiling water. 

Juice % lemon. Sugar. 

Juice % orange. 

Prepare fruit. Add the boiling water and one tablespoon 
sugar; allow to stand until cool. Add more water or sugar 
if necessary. Strain and serve cold. 

* Without sugar. 



ACIB BEVERAGES 113 

PINEAPPIE JUICE, ABOUT 50 CALORIES 

% cup Hawaiian Pineapple Juice. Crushed Ice. 

Pour the pineapple juice over crushed ice and serve in 
dainty glasses. This is delicious and has remedial qualities; 
especially valuable in throat and stomach trouble. 

lEMON WHEY, 96 CAIOKIES 

1 cup hot milk. 2 tablespoons lemon juice. 

2 teaspoons sugar. 

Heat the milk in a small saucepan over hot water, or in a 
double-boiler. Add the lemon juice. Cook without stirring 
until the whey separates. Strain through cheese-cloth, and 
add the sugar. Serve hot or cold. Garnish with small pieces 
of slice of lemon. 

WINE WHEY, 84 CALORIES 

1 cup sweet milk. % cup sherry wine. 

Heat the milk to boiling point, add the wine, and cook with- 
out stirring until the milk separates. Strain through a fine 
strainer, and serve hot or cold. 

ACID PHOSPHATE 

Horsford's Acid Phosphate is a solution of the phosphates 
of lime, magnesia, potash and iron with phosphoric acid, 
in such form as to be readily assimilated by the system. It 
is thus a true nerve and tissue food. 

1 teaspoon Horsford's Acid Phoa- 1 cup hot or cold water, 
phate. Sugar. 

Mix the Acid Phosphate with the water and sweeten with 
sugar, if desired. 

If the above should seem too strong, or be found too stimu- 
lating, use one-half teaspoon of the Acid Phosphate. 

Ifote. — Horsford's Acid Phosphate can be substituted for 
lemon juice in any of the acid drinks. 

ACID PHOSPHATE WHEY, 56 CALORIES 

1 cup hot milk. 1 teaspoon Horsford's Acid Phos- 

2 teaspoons sugar. phate. 



114 BEVERAGES 

Heat the milk in a small saucepan over hot water or in 
a double boiler. Add the Acid Phosphate. Cook without 
stirring until the whey separates. Strain through cheese- 
cloth and add the sugar. If more acid is desired, add two 
or three drops of Horsford's Acid Phosphate. Serve hot or 
cold. 

CREAU OF TARTAR DRINK 
1 or ly^ teaspoons Cream. Lemon, 

of Tartar. Sugar. 

1 pint boiling water. 

Dissolve the cream of tartar in the boiling water, and 
flavor with lemon and sugar. When cold strain. Take as a 
refrigerant drink and diuretic. 

MALTED MILK AND CURRANT JELLY, 85 CALORIES 

1 tablespoon Horlick's Malted 1 tablespoon currant jelly. 

Milk. % cup cold water. 

14 cup boiling water. Cracked ice. 

Mix the malted milk powder with a little of the boiling 
water to make a smooth paste, add the jelly and the rest of 
the water, and stir till the jelly is dissolved. Add the cold 
water and ice, strain and serve daintily in glass or sherbet 
cup, partly filled, and set on a small plate with doily. 

MALTED MILK WITH WINE, 88 CALORIES 

1 tablespoon Horlick's Malted 1 teaspoon port or sherry wine. 

Milk. 1 teaspoon sugar. 
1 cup hot water. 

Mix the malted milk powder with enough of the hot water 
to make a smooth paste, then add gradually the rest of the 
hot water, the wine, and sugar if desired. 

JELLY AND ICE 

With a large needle or pin, chip half a cup of ice into 
bits as large as a pea (or use an ice-scraper). Mix with it 
about the same quantity of lemon, currant, blackberry, or 
barberry jelly. Very refreshing in fevers. Be sure ice is 
perfectly pure. 



ACID BEVERAGES US 

GRAPE WATEB, 135 CALORIES i 

4 tablespoons grape jelly. % cup cold water. 

% cup boiling water. Lemon juice and sugar. 

Dissolve the jelly in the boiling water, then add the cold 
water, season to taste. Serve ice cold. 

CURRANT WATER, 100-125 CALORIES i 

%: cup currant juice or y, cup cold water. 

4 tablespoons currant jelly. Lemon juice and sugar. 

% cup boiling water. 

Dissolve the jelly in the boiling water (put over heat a 
few moments if it does not dissolve quickly). When dis- 
solved add the cold water, sVeeten to taste, and add a little 
lemon juice, if desired. Serve cold. 

APPLE, WATER, 25 CALORIES i 
1 sour apple. Lemon juice. 

1 cup boiling water. Sugar. 

Wipe a rosy-cheeked sour apple, and, without paring it, 
cut it into small pieces. Add the boiling water and one table- 
spoon sugar. Cover, and let it stand till cold, then strain, 
and add lemon juice and sugar to taste. Serve cold. 

Note. — Dried apple may be substituted, or two baked ap- 
ples. 

RHUBARB WATER, 15 CALORIES i 

1 stalk rhubarb. Lemon juice. 

1 cup boiling water. Sugar. 

Wash and wipe the rhubarb, and cut in thin slices, leaving 
on the skin. Add the boiling water and one tablespoon sugar. 
Cover, and let stand till cold. Strain, add lemon juice and 
sugar to taste, and serve cold. 

TAMARIND WATER, 60 CALORIES 2 

2 tablespoons preserved tama- 1 cup boiling water, 
rinds. Sugar. 

Pour the water over the tamarinds and let stand one-half 
hour. Sweeten to taste, strain and serve cold. 

^ Without lemon juice or sugar. 

' Without sugar. Estimated from average composition of preserves. 



116 BEVERAGES 

TAUABIin) HALTED UILK, 115 CALORIES 

2 tablespoons Horliek's Malted ^ cup hot water. 
Milk. % cup cold water. 

1 tablespoon tamarinds. Cracked ice. 

Make a smooth paste of the malted milk powder and hot 
water, add preserved tamarinds and the cold water. Strain 
and chill, or add pure cracked ice. 

GBAFE JTTICE 

(% cup = 120 Calories.) 

Partially fill a small glass with crushed ice, and add Welch's 
Grape Juice and serve. ' 

Grape Juice is a tonic food and a medicine for the sick 
and convalescent. It may be served plain, cold or hot, or 
diluted with one-third water. It is preferable to keep and 
serve the juice very cold. The bottles may be kept on ice 
until ready to serve. 

GBAFE LITHIA, 75 CALOBIES 

Pour one ounce of Welch's Grape Juice into a glass, dis- 
solve in it two teaspoons of sugar, and add four ounces of 
lithia water. 

GIIAFE NECTAB, 2750 CALOBIES 

(About 2 Quarts.) 

Boil together one pound of sugar and one-half pint of 
water until it spins a thread ; remove from the fire, and when 
cool, add the juice of six lemons and one quart of Welch's 
Grape Juice. Let stand over night. Serve with ice water, 
Apollinaris or plain soda. 

TEA PUNCH 
Pew beverages find readier favor during the hot weather 
than tea punch. To make it, pour boiling lemonade, sweet- 
ened to taste, over the tea leaves, and allow the liquid to stand 
until cold. Then strain and serve in tall glasses, with shaved 
ice and slices of lemon. 



ACID BEVERAGES 117. 

TRUIT PUNCH, 2100 CALORIES 
(3 Quarts.) 

2 large teaspoons tea. 3 oranges. 

2 quarts boiling water. 1 pineapple. 

1 pound lump sugar. 5 bananas. 

8 lemons. 1 pint strawberries. 

Steep the tea in the boiling water for five minutes, strain 
and add the sugar, stirring until thoroughly dissolved. Grate 
the rind of the lemons and extract all the juice. Cut the 
oranges into slices, shred the pineapple, slice the bananas 
very thin and hull the strawberries. When the tea is cold 
add all the fruit, and let stand in the refrigerator for several 
hours. Place a cube of ice in the punch-bowl, pour the mix- 
ture around it, and when well chilled serve in punch glasses. 
If desired, one cup of Maraschino cherries may be added. 

To get the best results from the pineapple, pare and remove 
the eyes, tear apart with a silver knife and fork, reject the 
core, sprinkle with sugar and let stand on ice for twelve 
hours. 

While fresh fruits are always preferable, canned berries 
and pineapples may be substituted, 

TUTTI-FIIIJTTI PTJITCH, 2300 CAIORIES 
(3 Quarts.) 

2 quarts water. 2 tangerine oranges. 

1 pound sugar. 4 slices pineapple. 

2 lemons. 1 banana. 

4 oranges. 1 pint Maraschino cherries. 

2 dozen Malaga grapes. 

Boil together for five minutes the water and sugar. Add 
the grated rind of two lemons and four oranges, and continue 
boiling for ten minutes longer. Strain the syrup through 
cheese-cloth, and add one quart of cold water. Extract the 
juice from the lemons and oranges, strain and mix with two 
dozen Malaga grapes, cut in half and seeded, the tangerine 
oranges sliced, the pineapple shredded, the banana cut in 
slices, and one pint bottle of Maraschino cherries with their 



118 BEVERAGES 

liquor. Add the fruit to the, syrup, chill and serve same as 
Fruit Punch. 

ALBUMINOUS BEVERAGES 

When a large amount of nutriment is required the al- 
buminized drinks are valuable. 

The egg is a fluid food until its albumin is coagulated by 
heat. Often the white of egg, dissolved in water or milk, 
and flavored, is given when the yolk cannot be digested, as 
30 per cent, of the yolk is fat. Egg-nog is very nutritious, 
and is extensively prescribed in certain non-febrile diseases, 
especially for the forced alimentation of phthisis and melan- 
cholia. There are occasional cases of bilious habit, in which 
eggs to be digested must be beaten in wine. But the combi- 
nation of egg, milk and sugar with alcohol, which constitutes 
egg-nog, is apt to produce nausea and vomiting in a feeble 
stomach, especially in fever. For this reason whole eggs are 
unfit for fever patients, and the whites only should be used. 

Albuminized drinks are most easily prepared cold. "When 
a hot liquid is used, it must be poured very slowly into the 
well-beaten egg, stirring constantly, so that lumps of coagu- 
lated albumin do not form. 

For the Diabetic. In all the albuminous drinks substitute 

Sweetina for the sugar. The fuel value will be 60 calories 

less in every recipe than when one tablespoon of sugar is 

used. 

ENERGY VALTJE OP AN EGG 

1 medium egg (without shell) ^60 Calories. 

1 white of egg (average) '. = 13 " 

1 yolk of egg (average) =48 " 

EGG BBOTH, 319 CALORIES i 

Yolk 1 egg. Speck salt. 

1 tablespoon sugar. 1 cup hot milk. 

Brandy or some other stimulant if required. 

Beat egg, add sugar and salt. Pour on carefully the hot 
milk. Flavor as desired, if with brandy or wine, use about 
one tablespoon. 

^ Calculated with 1 tljsp. trandy. 277 Calories if brandy is omitted. 



ALBUMINOUS BEVERAGES 119 

Note. — Dried and rolled bread crumbs may be added, if 
desired. The whole egg may be used. Hot water, broth or 
coffee, may be substituted for the milk ; nutmeg may be sub- 
stituted for the stimulant. 

EGG-NOG NO. I, 231 CALORIES! 
1 egg. % eup milk. 

Speck salt. 1% tablespoon wine or 

% tablespoon sugar. 1 tablespoon brandy (or less). 

Beat the egg, add the sugar and salt ; blend thoroughly, add 
the milk and liquor. Serve immediately. 

Note. — Have eggs and milk chilled before blending. A 
grating of nutmeg may be substituted for the stimulant. A 
lemonade shaker may be used for the blending. 

EGG-NOG NO. II, 231 CALORIES i 

1 egg. % cup milk. 

% tablespoon sugar. 1 tablespoon brandy (or less). 

Speck salt. 

Separate egg. Beat yolk, add sugar and salt, and beat until 
creamy. Add the milk and brandy. Beat the white till 
foamy (not stiff and dry), and fold it in lightly. Serve im- 
mediately. 

JUNKET EGG-NOG, 289 CALORIES i 
1 egg. 2 teaspoons rum, brandy, or 

1 cup milk. wine. 

1 tablespoon sugar. % Hansen's Junket Tablet. 

Beat white and yolk of egg separately, very light; blend 
the two. Add the sugar dissolved in the rum. Heat the 
milk lukewarm, stir into the egg mixture, and add quieldy 
the tablet dissolved in cold water. Pour into small warm 
glasses, and sprinkle grated nutmeg over the top. Stand in 
warm room undisturbed until firm, and then put on ice to 
cool. This can be retained by the most delicate stomach. 

^ Without liquor. 



120 BEVERAGES 

BE£F EGO-NOG, 200 CAIORIES 

1 egg. % cup hot beef broth. 

Speck salt. 1 tablespoon brandy. 

1 tablespoon sugar. 

Beat the egg slightly, add the salt and sugar; add grad- 
ually the hot broth; add brandy and strain. Sugar and 
brandy may be omitted if preferred. 

COFFEE EGG-HOG, 175 CALORIES i 

1 egg. % scant cup milk or cream. 

1% teaspoon sugar. % scant cup strong coflfee. 

Chill ingredients, and blend as for Egg-nog ISTo. II. 

FINEAFFIE EGG-NOG 
Prepare as per Egg-nog No. I or II ; omit the brandy and 
use pineapple juice to taste. 

EGG AND RTTM, 315 CALOKIES 

Famous in the Treatment of Phthisis 
1 cup fresh milk. Speck salt. 

Yolk 1 egg. Few grains nutmeg. 

1 tablespoon sugar. 1 tablespoon rum. 

Beat yolk, add sugar, salt and nutmeg; add milk and rum. 

Note. — For consumptives, taken at about 6 a. m., often 
prevents the exhausting sweats which accompany the morn- 
ing doze. Also may be given to a patient before dressing to 
prevent exhaustion. 

EGG AND BRANDY, 350 CALORIES 2 

3 eggs. 4 tablespoons brandy. 

4 tablespoons cold water. Sugar. 
Nutmeg. 

Beat the eggs, add cold water, brandy and sweeten to taste. 
A little nutmeg may be added. Give a tablespoonful at a 
time. 

EGG AND WINE, 125 CALORIES 2 
1 egg. 1 wineglass sherry. 

l^ cup cold water. Nutmeg. 

Sugar. 

* Calculated with milk. 
' Without sugar. 



ALBUMINOUS BEVERAGES 121 

Beat the egg. Heat the water and wine together but not 
boiling; pour onto the egg, stirring constantly; flavor with 
sugar and nutmeg. 

EGG lEUONASE, 192 CALORIES 

1 egg. 2 tablespoons lemon juice. 

2 tablespoons sugar. 1 cup cold water. 

Beat the egg thoroughly, add the sugar and lemon juice; 
pour in gradually the water, stirring until smooth and well 
mixed. Strain and serve. Two tablespoons of sherry or port 
may be added if desired. 

MALTED MILK AND EGG, 120 CALORIES 

1 tablespoon Horlick's Malted 20 drops acid phosphate. 
Milk. 1 tablespoon crushed ice. 

1 tablespoon crushed fruit. % cup ice water. 

1 egg. 

Mix the malted milk powder, crushed fruit and egg and 
beat five minutes. Add the phosphate and crushed ice, blend- 
ing thoroughly. Strain and add ice water or cold carbonated 
water, and a grating of nutmeg to flavor. 

STOEES MIXTTTKE 
Eggs and Brandy = 196 Calories. 

" 2 egg yolks, 50 c. c. of brandy, 120 c. c. of aqua aurantii 
florun (sugar or syrup enough to sweeten), has consider- 
able nutritive, as well as stimulative, value, and is eligible 
for use when such a combination is indicated." 

GRAPE YOLK, 180 CALORIES 

1 egg. 2 tablespoons Welch's Grape 
1 tablespoon sugar. Juice. 

Speck salt. 

Separate egg. Beat yolk, add sugar and stand aside while 
the white is thoroughly whipped. Add the grape juice to the 
yolk and pour this onto the whipped white, blending care- 
fully. Serve cold. Have all ingredients chilled before blend- 
ing. 



133 BEVERAGES 

GRAFE JUICE AND EGO, 270 CALOEIES 
1 egg. 1 tablespoon sugar. 

i/i cup rich milk. 14 cup Welch's Grape Juice. 

Beat yolk and white separately very light. To the yolk 
add milk, sugar and grape juice, and pour into glass. To the 
white add a little powdered sugar and a taste of grape juice. 
Serve on yolk mixture. Chill all ingredients before using. 

MULLED WINE, 850-280 CALORIES 

1 ounce stick cinnamon. % cup sherry, port, or claret 

A slight grating nutmeg. wine. 

% cup boiling water. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

1 egg. 

Put the spices into top of a double boiler with the water. 
Cover and cook over hot water ten minutes. Add wine to the 
spiced water and bring to the boiling point. Beat the egg 
to a stiff froth, add sugar and pour on the mulled wine, and 
beat well. Serve at once. 

ALBUMINIZED MILK, 98 CALORIES 

% cup milk (sterile). Salt. 

White 1 egg. 

Put milk and white of egg in a glass fruit jar, cover with 
air tight cap and rubber band. Shake until thoroughly 
blended. Strain into glass. A few grains of salt may be added 
if desired. Two teaspoons of Sanatogen added = 30 calories. 

Note. — The blending may be done in a lemonade shaker. 

ALBUMINIZED WATER, 13 CALORIES 1 

% cup ice-cold water Lemon juice. 

(boiled and chilled). Sugar. 

White 1 egg. 

Blend as for " Albuminized Milk," serve plain or add lemon 
juice and sugar to taste. If set on ice to keep cool, shake be- 
fore serving. Two teaspoons of Sanatogen added ^30 calories. 

ALBUMIN WATER (EOR INFANTS), 13 CALORIES 
Albumin water is utilized chiefly in cases of acute stomach 
and intestinal disorders in which some nutritious and easily 

^ Without lemon juice or sugar. 



ALBUMINOUS BEVERAGES 123 

assimilated food is needed ; albumin water is then very useful. 
The white of one egg is dissolved in eight ounces or a pint 
of water which has been boiled and cooled. — Koplik. 

ALBTTIHIKIZEI) CLAU WATER, 18 CAIOBIES 

1 cup cold water. White 1 egg. 
Clam Broth. 

To the water add the required amount of the clam broth 
to make the strength desired, add the unbeaten white of egg, 
and follow general directions for " Albuminized Milk." 
Serve cold in dainty glasses. This is a very nutritious drink, 
and will be retained by the stomach when other nourishment 
is rejected. 

Xote. — Milk may be substituted for the water. 

ALBUMINIZED ORANGE, 30 CALORIES i 

White 1 egg. Sugar. 

Juice 1 orange. 

To the unbeaten white add the orange juice, sweeten to 
taste and blend thoroughly. Strain and set on ice to cool. 
Serve cold. 

ALBTTMINIZED SHERRY, 22 CALORIES i 

White 1 egg. Sugar. 

% tablespoon sherry. 

Beat the white stiff, add slowly, while beating, the wine and 
siigar. Serve cold. 

Note. — Have all ingredients cold before blending. 

ALBUMINIZED GRAPE JUICE, 40 CALORIES i 

2 tablespoons Welch's Sugar. 
Grape Juice. Chopped ice. 

White 1 egg. 

Put in a dainty glass the grape juice, and the beaten white 
of egg and a little pure chopped ice; sprinkle sugar over the 
top and serve. 

1 Without sugar. 



124 BEVERAGES 

STARCHY BEVERAGES 

Starchy drinks consist of cereals or cereal products, cooked 
thoroughly in a large amount of water and strained before 
serving. Arrowroot, cornstarch, tapioca, rice and rice flour 
are nearly pure starch. Oats, barley and wheat in forms 
which include the whole grains contain besides starch some 
protein and fat, and also valuable mineral matter, especially 
phosphorus, iron, and calcium salts.^ In starchy drinks, 
these ingredients are necessarily present in small amounts; 
hence they have little energy value, unless milk or other 
highly nutritive material is added. Such drinks are of value 
when only a small quantity of nutriment can be taken. 

Principles of CooTcing. As the chief ingredient is starch, 
long cooking is necessary, in water at a high temperature 
(312° P.), which softens the cellulose, and breaks open the 
starch grains, changing the insoluble starch to soluble starch 
and dextrin, so that it can be very readily digested. Time 
of cooking should be conscientiously kept by the clock. 

Digestion. The action of ptyalin is very rapid, and if these 
drinks are sipped slowly, so as to be thoroughly mixed with 
saliva, a considerable portion of starch may be changed to 
sugar before reaching the intestines. 

BARLEY WATEB, 180 CALORIES 
2 tablespoons pearl barley. 1 quart cold water. 

Wash barley, add cold water and let soak several hours or 
over night; in same water, boil gently over direct heat two 
hours, or in a double boiler steadily four hours, down to one 
pint if used for infant feeding, and to one cup for the adult. 
Strain through muslin. 

Note. — Cream or milk and salt may be added, or lemon 
juice and sugar. Barley water is an astringent or demulcent 
drink used to reduce laxative condition. 

^See Mineral Matter, p. 31. 



STARCHY BEVERAGES 125 

BARLEY WATER (INFANT FEEDING), 19 CALORIES 

1 teaspoon barley flour. 1 pint boiling water. 

2 tablespoons cold -water. 

Blend flour and cold water to a smooth paste in top of 
double boiler; add gradually the boiling water. Boil over 
direct heat five minutes, stirring constantly, then put over 
boiling water and cook 15 minutes longer, stirring frequently. 
Older infants take the barley water in much more concentrated 
form. Barley water is used as a diluent with normal infants 
and in forms of diarrhoea. 

Note. — For children or adults, use ^^ tablespoon barley or 
rice flour, 1 cup boiling water, 14 teaspoon salt. 

RICE WATER, 100 CALORIES 1 

2 tablespoons rice. Salt. 

3 cups cold water. Milk. 

Wash the rice; add cold water and soak thirty minutes, 
heat gradually to boiling point and cook one hour or until 
rice is tender. Strain, reheat and dilute with boiling water 
or hot milk to desired consistency. Season with salt. 

Note. — Sugar may be added if desired, and cinnamon, if 
allowed, may be cooked with it, and will assist in reducing a 
laxative condition. 

RICE WATER NO. II, 160 CALORIES 
3 tablespoons rice. 1 tablespoon stoned raisins. 

1 pint boiling water. 

Wash rice, put into saucepan with water and raisins; boil 
gently for one hour. Strain. When cold serve. Sugar or 
salt may be added to taste. 

Note. — Do not use raisins in bowel trouble. 

OATMEAL WATER, 50 CALORIES 
1 tablespoon oatmeal. Speck salt. 

1 tablespoon cold water. 1 quart boiling water. 

Mix oatmeal and cold water, add salt and stir into the 
boiling water. Boil three hours; replenish the water as it 

1 Without milk. 



136 BEVERAGES 

boils away. Strain through a fine sieve or cheese cloth. 
Season, serve cold. Different brands of oatmeal vary consid- 
erably in the amount of water which they take up in cooking, 
and sufficient should always be added to make this drink al- 
most as thin as water. 

OATMEAl WATER NO. II, 220 CALORIES i 

>4 cup fine oatmeal. 1 quart water. 

Use sterile water (boiled and cooled). Add oatmeal and 
stand in warm place (covered), for one and one-half hours. 
Strain, season, and cool. Sometimes used for dyspeptics. 

TOAST WATER, 350 CALORIES 

1 cup stale bread toasted. Salt. 

1 cup boiling water. 

Cut bread in thin slices and in inch squares. Dry thor- 
oughly in oven until crisp and a delicate brown. Measure, 
and break into crumbs; add the water and let it stand one 
hour. Eub through a fine strainer, season and serve hot or 
cold. The nourishment of the bread is easily absorbed in 
this way and valuable in cases of fever or extreme nausea. 

Note. — Milk or cream and sugar may be added. 

CRUST COFFEE 

Take some pieces and crusts of brown bread and dry them 
in a slow oven until thoroughly hard and crisp. Place in a 
mortar and pound or roll. Pour boiling water over and let 
soak for about fifteen minutes. This when strained carefully 
is very acceptable to invalids who are tired of the ordinary 
drinks, such as lemonade, etc. 

CRACKER PANADA, 100 CALORIES 2 
4 hard crackers. Sugar. 

1 quart water. 

Break crackers into pieces and bake quite brown ; add water 
and boil fifteen minutes, allow to stand three or four minutes. 
Strain ofE the liquid through a fine wire sieve ; season with salt 

^ Estimated on one-half the oatmeal. 

2 Without sugar. 



MISCELLANEOUS BEVERAGES 127 

and a little sugar. This is a nourishing beverage for infants 
that are teething, and with the addition of a little wine and 
nutmeg, is often prescribed for invalids recovering from a 
fever. 

BREAD PANADA, 162 CALORIES 
11/2 cups water. 14 cup white wine. 

1 tablespoon sugar. 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

2 tablespoons stale white bread Nutmeg, 
crumbs. , 

Put water and sugar on to cook, just before it commences 
to boil add the bread crumbs; stir well, and let it boil three 
or four minutes. Add the wine, lemon and a grating of nut- 
meg ; let it boil up once, remove from fire, and keep it closely 
covered until it is wanted for use. 

MISCELLANEOUS BEVERAGES 

TEA — COFFEE —CHOCOLATE — COCOA AND SPECIAL NON-NU- 
TRITIVE BEVERAGES 
TEA 

Source. The tea of commerce is prepared from the leaves 
of a shrub cultivated for this purpose in China, Japan, India, 
Ceylon, and other portions of Southern and Eastern Asia. 

Classes of Tea. There are two great classes of tea, the 
green and the black. The difference lies in the mode of 
preparation. Green teas are quickly dried and fired; black 
teas are allowed' to ferment a few hours before drying and 
firing. 

Active Principles of Tea. Tea has practically no food 
value. Its principal constituents are caflfein, tannic acid, and 
a volatile oil. 

Its flavor is due to the volatile oil; its stimulating prop- 
erties to the cafEein. Tannic acid is a soluble, bitter sub- 
stance, which has a retarding effect on digestion. 

■When tea leaves are placed in boiling water, caffein is ex- 
tracted very rapidly. Tannic acid is less soluble, and there- 
fore it is possible to make tea with little of this principle by 
letting the water stand on the leaves only a short time. In 



128 BEVERAGES 

practice, the hot, but not boiling water, should stand on the 
tea from 3 to 5 minutes. The water should be soft, as 
lime in hard water tends to make tannin dissolve more freely. 
Green or mixed tea is more powerful than black tea. 

Effects of Tea. Tea is mildly stimulating and hence re- 
freshing, as it removes the sense of bodily fatigue. But the 
tannic acid retards the digestive action of the saliva and gas- 
tric juice, and tends to produce constipation. Tea is there- 
fore not suitable for persons suffering from gastric "disorders. 
The caffein is over-stimulating to the nervous system of 
many persons, causing restlessness, sleeplessness and muscular 
tremors. It should not be given to children, nor to adults 
with a tendency to nervousness. If you wish to avoid the 
retarding effect of tea on salivary digestion, direct the patient 
not to sip the beverage with the meal, but to eat first and 
drink afterward; in this way time is given for the saliva 
to perform its intended functions. 

Tea is less likely to cause sleeplessness if lemon juice is 
substituted for milk. 

COFFEE 

Source. This beverage is prepared from the seeds of the 
coffee tree (Caffea arabica), which grows in many warm 
countries, though originally found in Arabia. The coffee 
berry is about the color and size of a ripe cherry, and con- 
tains two seeds placed face to face. 

Active Principles of Coffee. The active principles of cof- 
fee are essentially the same as those in tea. By the roasting 
process a volatile oil is liberated (called caffeol) to which the 
aroma is due. The caffein is chemically the same as in tea, 
and according to Hutchison (p. 310)., a cup of black coffee 
contains about as large a quantity of caffein and tannic acid 
as a cup of tea. 

Effects of Coffee. Coffee has only a slight retarding in- 
fluence on salivary digestion, compared with tea, but an 
equally detrimental effect on gastric digestion. 

As a stimulant it effects more directly the central nervous 



MISCELLANEOUS BEVERAGES 129 

system; the heart action is considerably increased in rate 
as well as strength. Indirectly, this results in an increased 
activity of the kidneys. The respiration is deepened and the 
cerebral centers excited. For this reason it often proves use- 
ful in cases of opium and alcoholic poisoning. In some per- 
sons these effects are very mild; in others, they are severe, 
producing nervousness and insomnia, and coffee should be 
withheld. It removes the sensation of fatigue, for which 
reason it is used by many nurses when on night duty. It 
should never be given to children. 

Coffee or tea taken with either milk or sugar alone is much 
more healthful and less likely to cause ill effects than when 
both are used. 

Frequently after operation freshly made black coffee or 
tea without milk or sugar will be retained, and in some cases 
check vomiting. Give the patient one-half teaspoonful at 
frequent intervals. 

Many preparations have been put upon the market as 
coffee substitutes, but they lack the aromatic oil and caffein 
for which it is really prized. They make, however, pleasing 
hot beverages, and served with sugar and cream, have a food 
value. 

CHOCOLATE AND COCOA 

Source. Cocoa and chocolate are commercially prepared 
from the seeds of the cocao tree, Theobroma cocao. The seeds 
(or beans) are contained in a pulpy fruit 7-12 inches long, 
3-5 inches in diameter, in shape intermediate between a melon 
and a cucumber. The fruit is gathered and allowed to re- 
main in a heap to ferment a few days, when the pulp becomes 
loosened. The seeds lose some of their bitterness during this 
process, upon which the flavor of the bean largely depends. 
They are then dried in the sun, cleaned and sorted, and care- 
fully roasted. After this the thin outer husks are removed 
and sold under the name of cocoa shells. The broken roasted 
beans constitute cocoa nibs. 

Chocolate is prepared by grinding the nibs between hot 
rollers to a great degree of fineness. The presence of 50 per 



130 BEVERAGES 

cent, fat causes the mass to form a paste. This is molded 
and cooled with or without the addition of sugar and flavor- 
ing. 

Cocoa consists of chocolate deprived of a part of the fat. 
Sugar or starch or both, are sometimes added. 

Resemblance to Tea and Coffee. Chocolate and cocoa con- 
tain a volatile oil, set free by the fermentation process and 
further modified by roasting, to which the characteristic 
flavor is due. They also contain tannic acid, but in smaller 
amount than in tea or coffee. The stimulating principle 
of chocolate and cocoa is an alkaloid closely allied to caffein, 
called theobromin. It is less apt to induce nervous symptoms 
than either tea or coffee, but in many persons their stimulat- 
ing power is distinctly felt. 

Nutritive Value. Unlike tea and coffee, chocolate and co- 
coa have a high food value, as shown by the following 
analysis : 

Protein Pat Carbo- Mineral Water Calories 

hydrates Matter per ]b. 

Chocolate 12.5% 47.1% 26.8% 3.3% 10.3% 2720 

Breakfast Cocoa 21.6% 28.9% 37.7% 7.2% 4.6% 2320 

By reason of the high percentage of fat, chocolate is likely 
to cause indigestion when used to excess, or when taken in 
addition to an otherwise heavy meal. Cocoa, being less rich 
in fat, is free from this objection. 

The use of cocoa often makes milk acceptable when it 
would otherwise be refused. Hence this beverage is good 
in convalescence, if there are no digestive disturbances. When 
made weak, it can also be given to children in moderation. 

Principles of Coohing. Chocolate and cocoa both contain 
considerable starch, and hence should be boiled to be di- 
gestible. The cooked starch also serves to thicken the bev- 
erage somewhat, and to make it smoother and more homo- 
geneous. On account of the volatile oil to which the flavor 
is due, the cooking should be continued only long enough to 
alter the starch, otherwise the oil is lost. 



MISCELLANEOUS BEVERAGES 131 

TEA 
(Individual Rule.) 
1 teaspoon tea. 1 cup boiling water. 

Scald the teapot, which should be silver, crockery or granite 
ware, not tin. Put in the tea, add the freshly boiling water 
and let it infuse three to five minutes. By no means allow 
it to boil, for boiling dissipates the aroma and extracts the 
tannin. Strain into hot cup and serve with cream or milk 
and lump sugar, or with sugar and a slice of lemon. 

ETJSSIAN TEA 

Heat cup, fill three-fourths full of boiling water and dip in 
it two teaspoons tea (put in tea-ball or fine small strainer), 
until strong enough. Serve hot with sugar and a slice of 
lemon. 

Note. — Lemon is a good substitute for milk. The lemon 
prevents the headache and sleeplessness which the milk in 
tea causes to some persons. 

COFFEE MADE IN THE PERCOIATEE 

Breakfast Coffee. After-Dinner Coffee. 

2 tablespoons coffee. Increase quantity of coffee to 

1 cup cold water. suit the taste. 

Prom the percolator take out the cup with its tube, fill the 
percolator with the quantity of water desired, replace cup and 
tube (covering tube with thumb), and put in the coffee, then 
put on the spreader plate and cover. Cook fifteen minutes. 

Note. — If warm or hot water is used it takes less time for 
cooking. Never use boiling water. It takes a little longer 
with the urns than with the pots. 

When heat is applied to the foot of the pot, a jet of water 
lukewarm at first, but quickly increasing in temperature as 
the pumping process goes on, is forced up through the tube, 
falls on the spreader plate; by it, it is evenly distributed over 
the coffee, through which it percolates down into the pot 
again. This pumping continues until the water reaches the 
boiling point, when water and steam together come up 
through the tube. The coffee is thus ready to serve. 



133 BEVERAGES 

Coffee made in this way has a delicious aroma, a fine flavor 
and an absence of the bitter taste caused by boiling. Many 
can drink coffee made in this way that cannot when made 
in other ways. 

Buy coffee in the berry and grind it fresh every day, for 
ground coffee soon loses its aroma. 

BOILED COFFEE 
(To make seven cups of coffee.) 

1 eup coffee. 6 cups boiling water. 
% egg and shell. 1 cup cold water. 

Scald coffee pot. Wash egg, beat slightly and add crushed 
shell, coffee and one-half cup cold water. Put into scalded 
coffee pot, add boiling water and let boil up three times, 
stirring down after each time (or boil five minutes) ; then 
add one-half cup cold water. Let it stand 20 minutes where 
it will keep hot but not boil. Serve in hot coffee cups with 
cream and sugar, or hot milk may be used in place of cream. 

!N"ote. — A favorite blend of coffee is three parts Java and 
one part Mocha. 

BOILED COFFEE 
(Individual Rule.) 

2 tablespoons coffee. % cup boiling water. 

1 egg shell or 1 teaspoon %, cup cold water, 
egg white. 

Follow general directions for blending in preceding recipe. 
Boil three minutes and keep hot 15 minutes. 

For the Diabetic. The following varieties may be used. 
Pour coffee into a slightly beaten egg or yolk ; or one teaspoon 
butter; or heavy cream. Substitute Sweetina for sugar. 

FILTERED COFFEE 
(Individual Rule.) 

2 tablespoons finely ground % cup boiling water. 

coffee. 

Place a piece of filter paper over a strainer and put the 
coffee in it. Hold the strainer over a hot coffee eup and pour 
the boiling water slowly over the coffee. 



MISCELLANEOUS BEVERAGES 133 

FILTERED COFFEE NO. II 
(Individual Rule.) 

2 tablespoons coffee. 1 cup boiling water. 

Grind the coffee very fine, put it into the upper part of 
a double coffee pot and pour the boiling water through it. 
Let it stand a few minutes on the back of the stove, where 
it will not boil. Then remove it and serve hot. 

MALTED HIIK COFFEE, 59 CALORIES i 
(Individual Rule.) 
1 tablespoon Horlick's Malted % cup boiling water. 

Milk. Sugar. 

I tablespoon ground coffee. 

Mix the malted milk powder, coffee and water, stirring 
well. Boil three minutes. Add sugar if desired. 

Or one to four teaspoons of malted milk powder may be 
put in a cup and ordinary coffee poured directly upon it, 
stirring constantly. 

CEREAL COFFEE 
(Two Cups.) 
4 tablespoons cereal coffee. % saltspoon butter. 

1 pint cold water. 

Put the cereal into coffee pot; add cold water and butter, 
when it reaches the boiling point, boil 15 minutes. Al- 
ways allow 25 minutes to make cereal coffee; 10 minutes to 
come to the boiling point and 15 minutes for the boiling 
(not violent boiling). Serve with sugar and hot milk or 
cream. 

Note. — As cereal coffee is made of browned grain, it is a 
wholesome drink, and is not stimulating. Butter is added to 
keep the coffee from boiling over. 

BREAKFAST COCOA, 957 CALORIES 

(To make six cups of cocoa.) 

3 tablespoons Walter Baker's 1 cup boiling water, 
cocoa. 3 cups scalded milk. 

4 tablespoons sugar. 

^Without sugar. 



134 BEVERAGES 

Scald milk in double boiler. Put the cocoa and sugar in 
a saucepan and slowly pour on the hot water, stirring all the 
time. Boil five minutes, add the scalded milk, beat until 
foamy with Dover egg beater to prevent formation of skin. 
Serve in heated cups. One-half cup of cream is a great addi- 
tion to cocoa. 

BKEAEFAST COCOA, 197 CALOBIES 
(Individual Rule.) 
2 teaspoons Walter Baker's % eup boiling water, 

cocoa. % cup scalded milk. 

1 teaspoon, sugar. 

Pollow general directions for blending and cooking in pre- 
ceding recipe. Boiling three minutes. 

Note. — Cocoa may be served hot or ice cold, with or with- 
out whipped cream. It may be served hot, poured over the 
beaten white or yolk of egg. One-third teaspoon of brandy 
may be added if ordered by the physician. 

MALTED MILX COCOA, 83 CALORIES i 
(Individual Rule.) 
1 tablespoon Horlick's Malted % cup boiling water. 

Milk. Sugar. 

1 teaspoon cocoa. 

Mix the malted milk powder, cocoa and water, stirring well. 
Boil three minutes. Add sugar if desired and serve hot. 

PLAIN CHOCOLATE, 1220 CALOKIES 

(Eight Cups.) 

1 quart milk. ^^ tablespoon cornstarch. 

2 ounces Walter Baker's choco- 3 tablespoons sugar, 
late. Speck salt. 

2 tablespoons boiling water. 

Mix the cornstarch with one-fourth cup of the milk. Put 
remainder of milk in double boiler to heat. "When the milk 
is scalded, stir in the cornstarch and cook ten minutes. 
Scrape the chocolate and put it in a small saucepan; add 
sugar and water and place the saiicepan over hot water. Stir 

1 Without sugar. 



MISCELLANEOUS BEVERAGES 135 

constantly until the mixture is smooth and glossy. Add the 
hot milk and beat the mixture with egg beater until frothy; 
or it may be poured back and forth from the boiler to a 
pitcher, holding high the vessel from which it is poured. 
This will give a thick froth. Serve at once. 

Note. — If you prefer not to thicken the chocolate, omit 
the cornstarch. 

Whipped cream may be served with chocolate, or it may 
be poured onto the beaten yolk of egg. 

If desired, flavor with one-half teaspoon vanilla. 

PLAIN CHOCOLATE, 305 CALORIES 
(Individual Rule.) 
1 cup milk. % tablespoon cornstarch. 

l^ ounce chocolate. % tablespoon sugar. 

Following directions for blending and cooking in preced- 
ing recipe. 

CHOCOLATE, VIENNA STYLE, 1427 CALORIES 
(Eight Cups.) 

1 quart milk. 3 tablespoons boiling water. 
4 ounces Walter Baker's vanilla 1 tablespoon sugar. 

chocolate. 

Scald milk in double boiler. Scrape chocolate and put 
sugar and water into a small saucepan; heat over hot water, 
stirring till smooth and glossy. Stir this mixture into the 
hot milk and beat well with an egg beater. Serve at once, 
putting a tablespoon of whipped cream in each cup, and 
filling with the chocolate. 

The plain chocolate may be used instead of the vanilla, 
but in that ease use one teaspoon vanilla and three generous 
tablespoons sugar. 

CHOCOLATE HILE SHAKE, 295 CALORIES 
(Individual Rule.) 

2 tablespoons chopped ice. % cup milk. 

2 tablespoons chocolate syrup. Y^ cup soda water or Apollinaris 

3 tablespoons whipped cream. water. 



136 BEVERAGES 

Shake or stir well before drinking. A tablespoon of 
vanilla ice-cream is a desirable addition. It is a delicious 
drink, even if the soda or Apollinaris water be omitted. 

A plainer drink is made by combining the syrup, three- 
fourths cup milk and the ice, and shaking well. 

CHOCOLATE SYRUP — USED IN PRECEDING, 2093 CALORIES 

(One Tablespoon = 65 Calories.) 
1 ounce (3 tablespoons) Walter 1 tablespoon vanilla. 

Baker's soluble chocolate. 2 cups sugar. 

1 cup boiling water. 

Put chocolate in a saucepan and add the water gradually, 
stirring all the time. Add sugar and stir till it begins to 
boil; boil three minutes, strain, cool and add one tablespoon 
vanilla. Bottle, and keep in a cold place. 

SPECIAL NON-NUTRITIVE BEVERAGES 

PLAXSEED TEA 

1 tablespoon whole flaxseed. Lemon juice to taste. 

2 cups cold water. Sugar. 

Wash flaxseed thoroughly, put it with the cold water in a 
saucepan, simmer one hour, add lemon juice and sugar to 
taste and strain. 

Note. — If too thick, add hot water. 

Valuable in case of inflammation of the mucous membrane. 

CINNAMON WATER 
1 ounce stick cinnamon. 1 pint boiling water. 

Boil together fifteen minutes. Strain. Serve hot or cold. 

Note. — Good in bowel trouble. The pure cinnamon is 
quite different from the coarse bark usually sold for cinna- 
mon, which is really only cassia. 

FLAXSEED AND LICORICE TEA 

1 ounce flaxseed. 1 pint boiling water. 

2 drachms licorice root. 



NON-NUTBITIVE BEVERAGES 137 

Pour the boiling water over whole flaxseed and bruised 
licorice-root, cover and cook very slowly for four hours. 
Strain. 

IIME WATER 

1 tablespoon of slaked lime. 1 quart boiled or distilled water. 

Put the lime and water in a corked bottle and shake thor- 
oughly two or three times during the first hour. The lime 
should then be allowed to settle, and after twenty-four hours 
the upper clear fluid carefully poured or siphoned off into 
a glass-stoppered bottle. Keep tightly corked, as it absorbs 
carbon dioxide from the air. Keep in a cool place. 

BEAN TEA 

14 cup wheat bran. Egg shell. 

2 cups cold water. Molasses, lemon juice. 

Boil the water and bran twenty minutes, and settle it with 
an egg shell or a little cold water. Sweeten with molasses, 
and lemon juice can be used if desired. 

SLIPPERY ELM TEA 
2 teaspoons slippery elm pow- Sugar. 

der or piece of the bark. Lemon juice. 

1 cup boiling water. 

Pour the water upon the slippery-elm powder or bark. 
When cool, strain and flavor with lemon juice and sugar. 
This is soothing in case of inflammation of the mucous mem- 
brane. 

HERB TEA 

Pour one cup of boiling water over two tablespoons of 
herbs. Cover the bowl, set it over the tea-kettle and steep 
ten minutes. Sweeten if desired. 

GINGER TEA 

Mix one tablespoon of molasses with one-half teaspoon of 
ginger; pour on gradually one-half cup boiling water, and 
boil one minute. Add one-half cup milk and when thor- 
oughly heated, serve. 



CHAPTEE IX 
ANIMAL FOODS 

The important foods derived from the animal kingdom are 

— Meat — Poultry and Game — Msh — Shell Fish — Eggs 

— Milk and Milk Products — Sweetbreads — Gelatin — Beef 
Preparations — Meat Broth and Jellies. 

Composition. Milk is the only animal food in which all 
the nutrients are represented in forms and proportions suit- 
able to supply all the needs of the body. It is properly called 
a " complete food." Eggs, also often called " complete food," 
contain both body-building and fuel food-stuifs, but are in- 
complete in the sense that the amount of carbohydrate is so 
small as to be almost negligible. 

Meats are valuable primarily as sources of protein. "When 
fat is present they are also useful for fuel. 

Meat extracts are chiefly valuable for their flavor and stim- 
ulating properties. 

The Proteins of animal foods are of many forms, con- 
spicuous among which are albumin of egg-white; myosin of 
muscle; casein of milk; fibrin of blood; nucleo-protein of 
liver and sweetbreads; collagen of connective tissue. 

The Eats are chiefly mixtures of stearin, palmitin and olein 
in varying proportions; small amounts of esters' of volatile 
fatty acids; and compounds of fats with phosphorus in the 
form of lecithin and related substances. 

Extractives. Nitrogenous extractives are found chiefly in 
meat, to which they help to give the characteristic flavor and 
the stimulating properties. They consist chiefly of purins 
(adenine, guanine, xanthine, hypoxanthine and uric acid) ; 
and creatin and creatinin. 

Carbohydrates. The carbohydrates are represented mainly 

138 



ANIMAL FOODS 139 

by lactose in milk, and glycogen in shellfish. As a rule, carbo- 
hydrates are negligible in animal foods. 

Water. "Water is present in all animal foods. Some ex- 
amples, showing the varying proportions in different kinds, 
are given in the following table : 

Oyster solids 88% 

Milk 87% 

Eggs 73% 

Lean beef 75% 

Salt cod 50% 

Mineral Matter. Milk and eggs are more valuable for their 
ash constituents than any other animal foods. Calcium, iron 
and phosphorus especially, are here found in most available 
forms. 

Meats are not particularly useful in this respect. They 
are deficient in calcium, and while they contain considerable 
iron, it is not in as useful a form as that in eggs. Most of 
the ash constituents found in the body are, however, repre- 
sented in flesh foods. 

Digestibility. As a class, animal foods are easy of diges- 
tion. They contain little indigestible residue, and the nu- 
trients are very perfectly absorbed. Prepared for the table, 
they are more concentrated than most vegetable foods. Hence 
animal foods are frequently chosen for invalids and con- 
valescents, regardless of their high protein content. 

Disadvantage of a Purely Animal Diet. The chief dis- 
advantages of a purely animal diet are that it does not aiiord 
sufficient bulk to maintain the proper functioning of the 
alimentary tract, owing to the lack of indigestible residue; 
and that it loads the body with an excess of nitrogenous ma- 
terial, which is not only unnecessary for repair, but may 
cause harm if not speedily eliminated. Furthermore, pro- 
tein raises the metabolism so that more food is actually re- 
quired than if carbohydrates and fats are used as fuel. For 
further discussion of the relative merits of animal and veg- 
etable diets, see page 233. 



140 ANIMAL FOODS 

MEAT 

The term meat includes the flesh of all animals used for 
food, as beef, veal, mutton, lamb, pork, poultry, game. Lean 
meat is almost a pure protein food. 

Composition of Meat: 

1. Muscle fibers, composed of proteins, extractives, in- 

organic salts, and veater. 

The principal protein is albumin. Muscle al- 
bumin is often called myosin. 

The extractives are largely nitrogenous. 

The mineral constituents in greatest abundance are 
phosphates and potash salts. 

2. Connective tissue which binds together the muscle fibers, 

this consisting chiefly of a protein called collagen, 
which yields gelatin on boiling. 

3. Fat interspersed between the flbers. 

Nutritive Value. Meat is rich in nitrogenous elements and 
fats, and contains important salts, chiefly potassium and iron. 
It is easily cooked and improves in flavor during the process ; 
requires less mastication and is more easily digested and as- 
similated than most vegetable food. 

Meat is lacking in carbohydrates, and unless a large amount 
of fat is present, is to be regarded as a source of nitrogen 
rather than of energy. Since protein burns up faster than 
other foods, and very little of the nitrogen can be retained in 
the body, it is most advantageously used in small amounts 
along with plenty of fats and carbohydrates. 

The most important food element in meat is the myosin or 
muscle albumin. The collagen belongs to a group of proteins 
often called gelatinoids or albuminoids, because, unlike the 
albumins, they cannot sustain life alone. They are able, 
however, to replace other proteins to the extent of two-thirds 
of the ordinary nitrogen requirement. In young animals, the 
coimective tissue is soft, and the tissues are easily masticated; 
but in older animals it becomes very firm, is hard to chew 



MEAT 141 

and often escapes digestion unless softened or changed to 
gelatin by cooking. 

The nitrogenous extractives have no nutritive value, and 
in fact, represent products either of waste (katabolism) or of 
insufScient oxidation. Unless promptly excreted, they may 
cause an excess of uric acid or other disorders. However, 
they bestow upon cooked meat its characteristic flavor and 
odor; in the stomach, act as stimulants to the secretion of 
gastric juice; and exert on the nervous system a stimulating 
influence similar to that of tea and coifee. 

Diyesiihility of Meat. Meat is easily digested, the degree 
of ease depending upon the following conditions: (1) The 
age of the animal when killed, with the exception of veal, the 
flesh of the young animal is more easily digested, but .less 
nutritious than that of the older one; (2) the time the animal 
is kept before cooking; (3) the sex; (4) the care bestowed on 
the animal during life; (5) the quantity of fat. Lean meat 
is more easily digested than fat meat. 

Absorption of Meat. Meat is very readily absorbed and 
leaves little residue in the intestines ; only 3 per cent, of meat 
taken is lost in the process of digestion. 

Uncooked Meat. Ordinary raw meat is not quite as easily 
digested as cooked meat. Owing to color and flavor, it is not 
appetizing and could not be taken continuously. However, 
when chopped fine or scraped free from connective tissue, so 
as to be easily attacked by the digestive juices, it is more 
readily digested than cooked meat. 

Effect of Cooking Meat. Proper cooking makes meat more 
digestible, as it softens the connective tissues, thus causing a 
separation of the muscular fibers, and enabling the digestive 
juices to act more advantageously. The color and flavor are 
improved. There is a loss of weight by evaporation of water, 
and loss of mineral matter and some extractives. The loss of 
water concentrates the nutrients, and thus renders cooked 
meat proportionally more nutritious than raw meat. 



142 ANIMAL FOODS 

Objective Points and Methods in CooTcing: 
1. To retain the juice as in baking, broiling, boiling and 
frying. 

3. To extract the juice as in soups. 

3. To extract and retain the juice as in stews. 

The Principal Constituent of meat to be considered in cook- 
ing is the albumin. Note page 11, for albumin. 

Cooking of Meat. Heat penetrates meat slowly. At a tem- 
perature of 158 degrees Fahrenheit, the meat assumes a gray 
color, as a result of the decomposition of the coloring matter 
of the blood. At the same time a peculiar odor of cooking 
develops, which is due to chemical changes produced by the 
heat. 

At a temperature above 104 degrees Fahrenheit, meat be- 
gins to lose weight from the separation of water, which con- 
tains salts and nitrogenous extractives. This process contin- 
ues as the temperature rises, except that coagulable proteins 
no longer separate with the water. 

Coagulation of the albumin is an important factor in cook- 
ing meat, and the degree varies with the mode of cooking. 

As broiling is the preferred way of preparing meat for the 
sick and convalescent, it is taken up in detail in this chapter. 

Broiling. In broiling, the meat is to be cooked in its own 
juices ; it is, therefore, evident that these must be retained as 
completely as possible. At first the temperature should be 
sufficiently high quickly to coagulate, and even harden the 
albumin on the outside surface, so as to form a layer or pro- 
tecting coat over the whole ; then the heat should be modified 
so that the interior will be raised to a temperature that will 
cook it properly without loss of its nutritive properties. 

In broiling we partially sacrifice the outer layer of the 
meat, to preserve the inner portion. 

The time for exposure will be different for different kinds 
of meat. Beef and mutton require a shorter time than lamb, 
chicken or game. 

A piece of meat properly broiled swells, and when cut, the 



MEAT 143 

liquid portion flows out readily; but if cooked too long the 
albumin inside coagulates and the meat loses its moisture, 
shrinks, and becomes tough. 

Effect of Cold and Hot Water on Meat. Cold water draws 
out the soluble albumin, the extractives and some of the salts ; 
thus in soups, broths and stews where all the nutriment pos- 
sible is desired in the liquid, the meat is first put into cold 
water and gradually brought to a higher temperature. 

Hot water or dry heat coagulates albumin, and since if 
subjected to too high a temperature this becomes tough and 
indigestible, we must note carefully the proper temperature of 
cooking. Often it is necessary to sacrifice a small amount 
of albumin by exposing the meat to a high temperature for 
a short time to form a coating on the meat, in order to re- 
tain the rest of the juices more effectively, after which the 
connective tissue can be softened by gentle simmering for 
several hours. 

The Quality of Meat depends upon the age, sex, environ- 
ment, care, feeding and time of hanging after slaughtering. 
It also depends greatly on the cuts used. 

The tougher and less expensive cuts, if properly cooked, 
are as nutritious and as easily digested as the expensive cuts ; 
however, tough meats take long, slow cooking to make them 
palatable, and the fuel used must be taken into consideration 
in the expense. Tough meats are muscles which the animal 
uses the most, as the legs (especially the lower part), neck, 
etc. ; they are more highly flavored on account of the freer 
circulation of blood through these portions. Cuts from the 
neck and shin are used for soups and broths. 

The tenderer and more expensive cuts are from the muscles 
which the animal uses the least, as the upper portion of the 
hind quarter (rump, sirloin) and fore ribs. The circulation 
of blood through these portions is less and they are not as 
juicy and well flavored, nor any more nutritious than tougher 
portions. These tenderer cuts are used for steaks and roasts. 

The remaining muscular portions of the animal (flank, 
shoulder and brisket) are not as tender as the upper portion 



144 ANIMAL FOODS 

of the hind quarter, but just as nutritious. They need longer 
cooking and are used for stews, braising and pot roast. 

Internal Organs or Animal Viscera used as food are the 
heart, tongue, brain, kidneys, liver, pancreas, thymus glands 
and paunch. Although some are as easily digested as most 
muscle tissue, they are not as nutritious, and most of them 
produce large quantities of uric acid. 

The heart, liver and kidneys, when properly cooked, are 
not as easily digested as other meats, on account of their close 
and firm texture, and should be eaten only by those of good 
digestive powers. 

The tongue is not very easily digested, for although the 
lean meat is tender, the fat is hard, and tends to retard diges- 
tion in the stomach. 

The brain is the most rapidly digested of meats, but a 
very high per cent, is of no use to the body. It is not suited 
for invalid diet on account of the high fat content. 

The paunch is the third stomach of the ox and called tripe. 
When properly cooked it is easily digested, but contains too 
much fat to give an invalid. 

The pancreas and thymus glands of the calf or lamb are 
sold under the name of sweetbreads. They are most easily 
digested, but give rise to uric acid. Note chapter on Sweet- 
breads. 

Beef. Beef, is without doubt, the most valuable kind of 
meat; it is nutritious, of excellent flavor, and comparatively 
easy of digestion. 

Test for Good Beef. The flesh is firm and fine grained in 
texture ; bright red in color when first cut and upon exposure 
to air; looks juicy and well-mottled and coated with fat, and 
the fat is of yellowish color and firm. 

The best beef is obtained from the steer of four to six years 
of age. After killing, the animal should hang for two to 
three weeks. 

Veal. The flesh of the calf is difiicult of digestion and 
should only be used in the sick room for making broth. It 
should never be eaten by those of weak digestion. It con- 



MEAT 145 

tains less albuminous substances, and more gelatin than 
beef. 

Test for Good Veal. It should be of a pinkish color, with 
clear, firm, white fat, fine grained and tender. The cut most 
used for broth and soup is the lower part of the leg known 
as the knuckle. 

Mutton. Next to beef, mutton is considered the most 
nutritious of meats, and by some considered as easily digested ; 
but it is known that fat of mutton, which consists largely of 
stearin, is not as easily digested. 

The best quality of mutton comes from a sheep from three 
to five years old; after killing it should be allowed to hang 
to ripen and to develop the flavor. 

Test for Good Mutton. The flesh is fine grained, bright 
pink in color, the fat is white, hard and flaky, and the skin 
comes off easily. The bones of mutton are white and smooth 
and round at the Joints. 

Lamb. Lamb of the right age is as nutritious as beef or 
mutton but the flesh is milder in flavor. 

Lamb is sold as " spring lamb " when killed at six weeks to 
three months old. It is very expensive and comes into the 
market early in the year — February and March. Lamb is 
usually killed when a year old, and should be sold imme- 
diately after killing; in this respect it differs from beef and 
mutton, which should hang after killing to ripen and develop 
the flavor. 

Test for Lamb. Lamb can be distinguished from mutton 
by the pinkish color of the bone, and the serrated joints. 

Pork. The flesh of the pig is the most indigestible of 
all meats on account of the large percentage of fat which it 
contains, consequently it is not used in cookery for the sick, 
except sometimes a small amount of ham, salt pork or bacon, 
as the salty taste occasionally acts as a stimulant to the lost 
appetite of the convalescent. Ham and bacon are more easily 
digested than other cuts of pork, and when thin strips of 
bacon are cooked crisp they are easily digested. Bacon is 
from the flank of pork and is salted and smoked. Next to 



146 



ANIMAL FOODS 



butter and cream, bacon fat is the most easily assimilated of 
ordinary food fats. 

Cuts of Meat. ^ The methods of cutting sides of beef, veal, 
mutton, and pork into parts, and the terms used for the differ- 
ent " cuts," as these parts are commonly called, vary in 
different localities. The diagrams show the positions of the 
different cuts, both in the live animal and in the dressed car- 
cass, as found in the markets. The lines of division between 
the different cuts will vary slightly, according to the usage of 
the local market, even where the general method of cutting 
is as here indicated. The names of the same cuts likewise 
vary in different parts of the country. 

Cuts of Beef 




Fig. 5 



Fig. 5. — Diagrams of cuts of beef: 1, Neck; 2, chuck; 3, ribs; 4, shoul- 
der-clod; 5, fore-shank; 6, brisket; 7, cross-ribs; 8, plate; 9, navel; 10, 
loin; 11, flank; 12, rump; 13, round; 14, second-cut round; 15, hind-shank. 
— (Atwater and Bryant, Bulletin No. 28, Office of Experiment Stations, 
United States Department of Agriculture.) Send for Bulletin for cuts of 
Veal and Pork. 



^ This section is quoted from Atwater and Bryant, Bulletin No. 28, Office 
of Experiment Stations, United States Department of Agriculture, Washing- 
ton. D. 0. 



MEAT 147 

The general method of cutting up a side of beef is illus- 
trated in Fig. 5, which shows the relative position of the cuts 
in the animal and in a dressed side. The neck piece is fre- 
quently cut so as to include more of the chuck than is repre- 
sented by the diagrams. The shoulder-clod is usually cut 
without bone, while the shoulder (not included in diagram) 
would include more or less of the shoulder blade and of the 
upper end of the fore-shank. Shoulder steak is cut from the 
chuck. In many localities the plate is made to include all 
the parts of the fore-quarter designated on the diagrams as 
brisket, cross-ribs, plate, and navel, and different portions of 
the plate, as thus cut, are spoken of as the "brisket end of 
plate " and " navel end of plate." This part of the animal is 
largely used for corning. The ribs are frequently divided 
into first, second, and third cuts, the latter lying nearest the 
chuck and being slightly less desirable than the former. The 
chuck is sometimes sub-divided in a similar manner, the third 
cut of the chuck being nearest the neck. The names applied 
to different portions of the loin vary considerably in different 
localities. The part nearest the ribs is frequently called 
" small end of loin " or " short steak." The other end of the 
loin is called " hip sirloin " or " sirloin." Between the short 
steak and the sirloin is a portion quite generally called the 
" tenderloin," for the reason that the real tenderloin, the 
very tender strip of meat lying inside the loin, is found most 
fully developed in this cut. Porterhouse steak is a term most 
frequently applied either to the short steak or the tenderloin. 
It is not uncommon to find the flank cut so as to include more 
of the loin than is indicated in the figures, in which case the 
upper portion is called " flank steak." The larger part of the 
flank is, however, very frequently corned, as is also the case 
with the rump. In some markets the rump is cut so as to 
include a portion of the loin, which is then sold as "rump 
steak." The portion of the round on the inside of the leg 
is regarded as more tender than that on the outside, and is 
frequently preferred to the latter. As the leg lies upon the 
butcher's table, this inside of the round is usually on the 



148 



ANIMAL FOODS 



upper or top side, and is therefore called " top round." Occa- 
sionally the plate is called the " rattle." 



Cuts of Lamb and Mutton 




Fig. 7 

Fig. 7. — Diagrams of cuts of lamb and mutton: 1, Neck; 2. chuck; 3, 
shoulder; 4, flank; 5, loin; 6, leg. — (Atwater and Bryant, Bulletin No. 28, 
Office of Experiment Stations, United States Department of Agriculture.) 

Fig. 7 shows the relative position of the cuts in a dressed 
side of mutton or lamb and in a live animal. The cuts in a 
side of Iamb and mutton number but six, three in each quar- 
ter. The chuck includes the ribs as far as the end of the 
shoulder blades, beyond which comes the loin. The flank is 
made to include all the under side of the animal. Some 
butchers, however, make a large number of cuts in the fore- 
quarter, including a portion of the cuts marked " loin " and 
" cliuck " in Fig. 7, to make a cut designated as " rib," and 
a pcrtion of the " flank " and " shoulder " to make a cut 
desigi-'ated as "brisket." The term "chops" is ordinarily 
used to designate portions of either the loin, ribs, chuck or 
shoulder, which are either cut or " ch'^pped " by the butcher 
into pieces suitable for frying or boiliLg. The chuck and ribs 
are sometimes called the " rack." 



MEAT 149 

ENERGY VAITTE OF MEAT 
See Table, under names of meat, as Beef — Mutton — 
Lamb — Bacon — Ham, etc. 

See Table, page 64, for energy value of other ingredients. 

TO BKOII STEAK 

Wipe, trim off the superfluous fat and remove a little of 
the bone. Save the flank ends for broiled meat cakes. Heat 
and grease the broiler with some of the fat. Place meat in 
broiler with fat edge next to handle and broil over a clear 
fire, turning every ten seconds for the first minute, holding 
broiler near the coals that the surface may be well seared, 
thus preventing escape of juices ; then cook at lower tempera- 
ture, holding the broiler higher. 

Steak cut one inch thick will take five minutes if liked 
rare, and eight minutes if well done; one and one-half inch 
thick, eight to ten minutes. Serve on a hot platter and sea- 
son with butter, salt and pepper, or with Maitre d'Hotel But- 
ter. 

N"ote. — Steak should be cut at least one inch thick ; many 
prefer it much thicker. The most tender steaks are tender- 
loin, sirloin and cross-cut of rump. Sirloin, porterhouse (a 
thick slice of sirloin with tenderloin attached), cross-cut of 
the rump and top of the round are all good steaks. The top 
of round is solid meat and a cheap steak; is tender if cut 
from animal of right age and is the second or third cut from 
top of round. 

MAITRE D'HOTEI BUTTER, 443 CALORIES 

Vi cup butter. 1 tablespoon chopped parsley. 

% teaspoon salt. 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

% saltspoon pepper. 

Eub the butter to a cream; add salt, pepper, parsley and 
lemon juice. Spread on hot beefsteak. 

PAN-BROILED BEEF CAKES 
Use steak from upper part of round, and with a small piece 
of suet put all through a meat chopper; without seasoning. 



150 ANIMAL FOODS 

shape into small, flat, circular cakes. Into saute pan put a 
little beef fat, when smoking hot, put in the cakes and cook 
a few moments on each side and turn; it will take about live 
minutes to cook them. Season well with salt, pepper and 
butter, and serve on hot platter. Do not add salt before cook- 
ing, as it toughens the meat. 

SCBAFES B££F 
See " Beef Preparations " for recipe. Page 317. 
MUTTON CHOPS BROILED i 

Cut away the tough outside skin, trim off a part of the 
fat. Broil same as steak — that is, close to the glowing coals 
— for about one minute, turning every ten seconds, then cook 
at a lower temperature, holding the broiler higher. Will take 
four or six minutes for a chop one inch thick. Mutton, like 
beef, should be served rare. Season chops with salt and 
pepper, but not with butter, as the meat is rich and fat and 
does not require it. 

LAMB CHOPS BROILED 1 

Prepare and broil same as for mutton chops, except that 
they are to be well done instead of rare, to accomplish this 
about three minutes longer cooking will be required; for a 
chop one inch thick, from eight to ten minutes. 

TRENCH CHOPS 1 

Trim a chop until there is nothing left but the round 
muscle at the thick end, with a little fat about it. Cut away 
all the meat from the bone, which will then look like a handle 
with a meat morsel at one end. Broil, and serve on hot 
platter with paper handles on chops, and garnished with pars- 
ley and peas. 

PAN-BROILED CHOPS i 

Chops are fairly good pan-broiled. The same principle is 
to be followed as in the cooking over coals — that is, a high 
degree of heat at first, to sear the outside before the juice 

^ Chops average 300 Cal. per 100 gms. 



MEAT 151 

escapes, and a lower temperature afterward — ■ therefore, lieat 
the saute pau or spider exceedingly hot (use no fat), drop in 
the chop, count ten and turn, repeating for about one minute, 
then draw the pan to the back or side of the stove and finish 
cooking slowly. A chop one inch thick will be perfectly done 
in from five to seven minutes. If the pan is hot enough at 
first there will be no loss of juice or flavor. Season and serve 
in the same manner as broiled chops. 

CHOPS (OB. BIRDS) BROIIED IN PAPER i 

Prepare a chop as for pan-broiling. Spread a piece of 
paper evenly and thickly with butter. Lay on it a nicely 
trimmed chop and double the paper with edges together. 
Fold and crease the edges on the three sides, then fold and 
crease again, so that the butter cannot run out. These folds 
should be half-an-inch wide. It will be necessary to have 
the sheet of paper — foolscap or heavy white paper — consid- 
erably more than twice as large as the chop. Broil over coals, 
not too near, turning often so that the temperature will not 
get so high as to ignite the paper. A chop broiled in this way 
is basted in the butter and in its own juices, and is very deli- 
cate. A chop three-quarters of an inch thick will cook in five 
minutes ; one an inch thick, in eight. 

Should the paper ignite, it need not destroy the chop. 
Take it out and put into a fresh paper and try again. The 
chop should be served hot, seasoned with salt and pepper. 

Note. — Birds may be broiled in the same way. 

BROILED BACON 

Cut bacon in as thin slices as possible, and remove rind. 
Put in broiler, placing broiler over baking pan, and cook in 
hot oven until crisp. 

CURLED BACON 

Heat saute pan very hot. Put in strips of very thin sliced 
bacon. As fat is drawn out, pour it off into cup ; cook bacon 
until crisp and brown. Drain on brown paper. 

1 Chops average 300 Cal. per 100 gms. 



152 ANIMAL FOODS 

BROILED HAM 

Cut slices of ham one-third inch thick. If very salt soak 
fifteen minutes in lukewarm water ; broil three minutes or un- 
til brown on both sides, turning frequently. A slice of boiled 
ham is very delicate cooked in this same way, cooking it less 

time. 

ROAST MEATS 

Prepare meat, put on rack in dripping pan, dredge with 
salt and flour and cook in hot oven until the surface is seared, 
reduce the heat and cook slowly the required time. 

Beef, rare 13 minutes per pound. 

Beef, rare (over 5 lbs.) 18 minutes per pound. 

GRAVY rOR ROAST MEATS 
1 tablespoon fat. 1 cup boiling water. 

1 tablespoon flour. 

Pour fat from baking pan and return to pan the quantity 
desired. Add flour and when well browned pour on gradually 
the boiling water, stirring constantly. Cook five minutes, 
season with salt and pepper, and strain. 

POULTRY AND GAME^ 

Poultry and game are generally classed together, poultry 
being applied to domesticated birds raised for their flesh or 
eggs or both. Wild birds are all classed as game. 

Digestibility. Chicken may be introduced early into the 
dietary of the convalescent, for it is one of the most easily 
digested of meats. Chicken is more easily digested than 
fowl, but is not as nutritious. The white meat of the breast 
is particularly free from fat, has short fibers and small amount 
of connective tissues, and is easier to digest than the dark 
meat. 

Squab, quail, pigeons and the white meat of turkey are also 
easily digested. 

Duck and goose contain a large quantity of fat and are not 
as easily digested. 

^ For further information, note ''Poultry as Food." Farmer's Bulletin, 
No. 182, Dept. of Agriculture, Washington, D. C. 



POULTRY AND GAME 153 

Game is comparatively easy of digestion but too highly 
flavored for most invalids. The cuts from the breast are 
the best for an invalid. 

Test for Selecting a Chicken. The cartilage at the end of 
the breast bone must be soft and pliable, the skin smooth 
and the feet soft. There should be an abundance of pin 
feathers. Chickens are used for broiling and roasting. 

Test for Selecting a Fowl. The cartilage at end of the 
breast bone is firm, the feet are hard and dry. The pin feath- 
ers are largely replaced with long hair. An old fowl, not too 
fat, is best for broths. One from one to two years is best for 
roasting, or where the meat substance is desired. The propor- 
tion of bone to meat in chicken under this age makes them 
expensive eating. 

Principles of Cooking. In general same as for cooking of 
other meats. 

When the layer of meat over the bones is very thin, as in 
young chickens or squabs, broiling is preferable to roasting. 

An old fowl can sometimes he made tender without having 
all its flavor stewed into the broth, by cooking in a small 
amount of water in a double boiler for a long time, or in a 
fireless cooker. 

A general rule for roasting chickens or turkeys is twenty 
minutes to the pound. Ducks and geese, having tougher 
fibers, require a longer time for thorough cooking. 

GENERAL ETIIE FOR CLEANING POTILTRY 

Cut off head and feet and pull out pin feathers. If the 
bird has not been drawn, make an incision below, the breast 
just large enough to admit the hand (or finger for the small 
birds). With the hand or finger, draw all the entrails out at 
one time. Care must be taken not to break them, especially 
the gall-bladder. Turn down the skin of the neck, cut off 
neck close to body and pull out wind pipe and crop. Cut 
out the oil bag. Cut through skin of the leg a little below the 
joint (not cutting the tendons), press against table and break 
and pull off foot with tendons, which will come out in break- 



154 ANIMAL FOODS 

ing if chicken is young. In fowls you may have to pull them 
out separately with skewer. Singe the bird by holding it 
over a tablespoon of burning alcohol, or paper (holding over 
sink). Wash by allowing the cold water to run through and 
over it, and dry well inside and out and prepare further for 
broiling or roasting, etc. 

DRY DRESSING FOR STUFFING, 1100 CALORIES 

1^4 cup stale bread crumbs. Powdered sage, marjoram, and 

1/3 cup butter ( not melted ) . summer savory. 

Salt, pepper. 

Thoroughly mix ingredients and season to taste. Fill in 
both openings of bird and sew the skin at both ends, and turn 
the skin of neck over, and fasten to back. Oysters can be 
added to dressing if desired, omitting all seasonings but the 
salt and pepper. 

TO TRUSS POULTRY 

After stuffing and sewing up the openings, draws the thighs 
close to body and secure in place by putting a skewer through 
them and the body. Fold wings under back by taking end 
of wing and place in under back which fastens it. Cross the 
drum-sticks and tie with long string and fasten to the tail, 
and tie string so that it will hold thighs close to the body. 
Cut and remove string before serving the bird. 

ROAST POULTRY 

100 grams :^ about 200 Calories.i 

Clean, stuff and truss bird and place it on its back on 
rack in dripping pan. Eub surface with salt and a butter and 
flour mixture (mix three tablespoons of butter and two table- 
spoons of flour and stir until creamy). Dredge bottom of 
pan with flour. Place in hot oven and in about ten minutes 
the flour should be well browned, then reduce heat of oven and 
cook more slowly. Baste every ten minutes with one-fourth 
cup of butter melted in three-fourths cup of water, after this 

• Edible portion. 



POULTRY AND GAME 155 

has been exhausted use fat in pan. Turn bird often while 
cooking that it may brown evenly. When cooked, remove to 
hot platter and make the gravy. 

A chicken four to five pounds will require about one and 
one-half to two hours for cooking. Turkey, nine pounds, two 
and one-half to three hours. Ducks (domestic), one to one 
and one-half hours. Duck (wild), twenty-five to thirty min- 
utes. Goose, nine pounds, two to two hours and one-half. 

GRAVY FOR ROAST POULTRY 

Clean the heart, liver and gizzard by removing the mem- 
brane, blood vessels and clotted blood from the heart. Cut 
liver from the gall bladder and remove all green on liver. 
Clean gizzard and cut through edge carefully to sac, and re- 
move carefully not to break it, wash giblets (that is, the 
heart, liver, gizzard) and the neck and put on to cook in two 
and one-half cups of cold water, cook slowly at the simmering 
point until tender. 

After chicken has been removed from pan, pour ofl' all the 
fat, strain and return to pan four tablespoons of fat and add 
four tablespoons of flour, brown together thoroughly, and add 
gradually the water the giblets were cooked in. Cook five 
minutes, stirring constantly, add hot water if gravy is too 
thick, and salt and pepper to taste, and the finely-chopped 
giblets. 

TO BONE BIRDS 

Select bird that is fresh-killed, dry-picked, and not drawn. 
Cut off head and feet, singe and remove pin feathers, crop, and 
oil bag. Cut off wings close to body. Lay on board breast 
down and cut to bone the entire length of spine. Scrape the 
flesh from backbone the entire length of body, working toward 
the breast, cutting the tendinous portions as reached. When 
edge of breastbone is reached, care must be taken not to break 
through skin. Scrape flesh from second joint and drum- 
sticks, laying flesh back and pulling out bone (as if turning 
glove off inside out). 

Scrape flesh from lower part of back and withdraw from 



156 ANIMAL FOODS 

carcass. Put flesh in original shape and broil, following 
directions for broiled quail; or stuff bird with stale bread 
crumbs and tie in shape with string and bake in hot oven. 
When cooked, remove bread and tie in shape with a bit of 
white baby ribbon and garnish with parsley and lemon. 

BROILED aUAIL 

100 grams = 160 Calories. 
Clean, cut off the head and feet, singe, and wipe with a 
damp cloth. With a sharp-pointed knife split the quail down 
the back, beginning at back of neck and cutting through the 
backbone the entire length of bird. Lay bird open and re- 
move contents. Cut through tendons at joints. Wipe thor- 
oughly. Season with salt and pepper, rub thickly with soft- 
ened butter and dredge with flour. Broil ten minutes over 
clear coals. Serve on hot buttered toast. Garnish with toast 
points, parsley and currant jelly. 

BROILED SaUABS 
100 grams = 390 Calories. 

Prepare, cook and serve the same as quail. 

BROILED SMALL BIRDS 

All small birds can be broiled according to the directions 
for quail, remembering that for very small ones it takes a very 
bright fire, as the birds should only be browned and the time 
required for cooking is brief. 

BIRDS BROILED IN PAPER 

See chapter on Meats and follow directions for " Chops 
Broiled in Paper." Page 151. 

BROILED CHICKEN 
100 grams = 108 Calories.i 

Dress for broiling, following directions given under Broiled 
Quail. Season well with salt and pepper, and rub all over 
with softened butter, especially breast and legs. Put in a 
well-greased broiler and broil over a clear fire about fifteen 

^ Ediljle portion. 



POULTRY AND GAME 157 

minutes, turning often. The flesh side must be exposed to 
the fire the greater part of the time as the skin side burns 
easily. When chicken is nicely browned, place in a dripping- 
pan, skin side down, in a moderate oven twelve minutes. Put 
on a hot dish, season with salt, pepper and butter, and serve 
immediately. 

This rule is for a chicken weighing about two and a half 
pounds, yielding 735 calories. 

CREAMED CHICKEN, 210 CAIORIES i - 

(Individual Rule.) 
Va cup cold cooked chicken. % tablespoon butter. 

Speck celery salt. % tablespoon flour. 

Salt. V4 <^up rich milk. 

Pepper. 

Melt butter in saucepan, add flour and pour on gradually 
the scalded milk. Cook thoroughly. Add chicken cut into 
dice, and seasonings. Heat well and serve on toast rounds, 
garnished with toast points and parsley; or use as a filling 
for Swedish timbales. 

Note. — Chicken may be used that is removed from chicken 
broth when it is tender. Chicken broth may replace part of 
the milk in making the sauce. 

SCALLOPED CHICKEN 

Put creamed chicken into a small baking dish, cover with 
dried bread or cracker crumbs, dot with small pieces of but- 
ter, and brown in oven. 

JELLIED CHICKEN, 100 CALORIES 2 
(Individual Rule.) 

1 teaspoon gelatin. Vi cup chopped chicken. 

2 tablespoons cold water. Salt, celery salt. 
8 tablespoons strong chicken 

broth. 

Soak gelatin in the cold water five minutes, and add the 
boiling hot broth, stir until dissolved. Season to taste. Dip 

1 Calculated with 1 % ouBce of fowl. 
' About 100 calories. 



158 ANIMAL FOODS 

mold into cold water and pour in enough gelatin to cover 
bottom, put in ice box to harden, when firm decorate with a 
slice of hard-cooked egg; or cook a couple slices of carrots 
and cut a small round from one slice to form the center of 
a daisy and cut the other slice into strips to represent the 
petals and put in bottom of mold, add a few drops of 
gelatin to keep the decoration in place, and put on ice to 
harden. Mix the chicken with remainder of gelatin and pour 
into mold and set to harden. Serve on leaf of lettuce or 
garnish with parsley. 

LARDED GROUSE 
Clean and wash the grouse. Lard the breast and legs. 
Eun a small skewer through the legs and tail. Tie firmly 
with twine. Dredge with salt, rub the breast with softened 
butter, then dredge with flour. Put into a quick oven. If 
desired rare, cook twenty minutes; if well done, thirty min- 
utes. Serve on hot platter garnished with parsley and Bread 
Sauce. 

lARDED QTJAIE 
100 grams ^160 Calories. 

The directions for cooking and serving are the same as for 
grouse, except that quail cook in fifteen minutes. Larding 
gives richness to dry meat that does not have fat enough of 
its own. 

BREAD SAUCE TOR GAME, 540 CALORIES 
Crumbs 
% cup coarse dried bread crumbs. % small onion. 
% tablespoon butter. 1 tablespoon butter. 

Sauce 
1 cup milk. Salt. 

% cup fine bread crumbs. Pepper. 

Prepare Crumbs. Dry in a warm oven; sift. Cook the 
coarse bread crumbs in the butter until a delicate brown, and 
use to cover breast of bird. 

Prepare Sauce. Put the fine bread crumbs, milk and 



FISH 



159 



onion on to scald ten minutes, then skim out the onion, add 
the butter and seasoning, and serve as a gravy for birds. 

nsH 

Fish is one of the important protein foods. The term is 
usually applied to all kinds of water animals used for food. 
They may be classified as follows : 

r Halibut 
Haddock 
Flounder 
Turbot 
White Fish 
Smelt 
Cod 



1. Scaly or Vertebrate. 



White or lean, e. g. 



2. Shell-flsh 



Dark or oily, e. g. 



Mollusks, e. g. 



Crustaceans, e. g. 



Salmon 

Mackerel 

Blue Fish 

Shad 

Herring 

Eel 

rOysters 
"l^Clams 

"Crabs 
Lobsters 
Shrimps 
Turtles 
.Terrapin 



In the white-fleshed fish the fat is found principally in 
the liver. This is the only class usually considered in the 
cookery for the sick. 

In the dark-fleshed fish the fat is found distributed through- 
out the body. A considerable amount of the protein of fish 
is in the form of gelatin. Fish is less rich in extractives, and 
hence less stimulating than meat. 

Digestibility. The digestibility of scaly flsh depends upon 
the quantity of fat present and the coarseness of the fiber. 



160 ANIMAL FOODS 

The white-fleshed fish are less nutritious and stimulating than 
the dark-fleshed fish as they contain less fat and extractives 
and more water. They are consequently more easily digested. 
"With the exception of cod, white fish is useful for a con- 
valescent diet, for those of sedentary habits, for children, and 
others for whom the stimulating extractives of meat are not 
desirable. 

Oily fish should not be eaten by those of weak digestion 
or given to the sick. In some cases they may be served dur- 
ing advanced convalescence. 

Salt fish is not as easily digested as fresh fish, as the fibers 
are apt to be hardened in the process of salting. Salt codfish 
is an exception, for if finely divided and served in an ap- 
petizing manner it is a valuable and inexpensive form of 
protein food. As a rule, dried, smoked or pickled fish should 
not be given to the sick. 

By some persons, fish cannot be eaten without causing in- 
digestion or biliousness. A complete diet of fish is said to 
cause an affection of the skin. The fat sometimes disagrees, 
causing acidity and eructations of the stomach. 

Composition. In composition fish is similar to meat, con- 
taining proteins, extractives, fats, salts and water. As a rule, 
fish contains more water and less fat than meat, therefore it 
is more easily digested ; and it is due to this, its easy digesti- 
bility, that white fish by some is considered a brain food, and 
not, as is popularly supposed, to the amount of phosphorus it 
contains; in fact, fish does not contain as much phosphorus 
as some meat. Fish contains less extractives than meat and 
it is due to this that people tire more quickly of it than of 
meat. 

Lemon juice and vinegar are desirable condiments to serve 
with fish. The acid is a desirable neutralizing agency, as the 
juice of fish, especially shellfish, is of an alkaline nature. 

Nutritive Value. The chief nutritive constituents of fish, 
as of meat, are their proteins and fats. Their energy value 
depends largely on the amount of fat they contain. 



FISR 161 

When Fish are in Season. Halibut, haddock, flounder and 
cod, are in season all the year. 

Turbot, October to May; shad, February to May; salmon. 
May to September; blue fish and mackerel. May to October; 
sturgeon, April to September; trout (lake), April to August. 

Test for Freshness. In fresh fish the gills are red, the eyes 
bright and protruding, the flesh is firm and there is no un- 
pleasant odor. The first two tests disappear after the fish 
has been out of water a short time, and although the flavor of 
the fish is not as good, it is not spoiled. But if the last two 
tests are not present the fish should not be used. Great care 
should be taken that fish is perfectly fresh, in season, and 
thoroughly cooked, or it will be indigestible and sometimes 
poisonous. Unless these conditions are known to exist, fish 
should not be served to the sick. 

" In many European cities fish are sold alive, the customer 
selecting his fish as it swims in a tank. It would seem that 
this excellent method might be used in our cities, especially 
those situated on the seaboard, at least for customers who are 
fastidious and who are willing to pay an extra price for 
a special article when it is warranted." (Farmer's Bulletin 
No. 375.) 

Principles to he Observed in Coolcing Fish. As in meat, 
albumin is the principal constituent to be considered in the 
cooking of fish. Hence the same principles which apply to 
the cooking of meat apply also to the cooking of fish. 

See page 11, for effect of heat on albumin. 

Objective Points and Methods: 

To Eetain the Juice. — Baking, Broiling, Boiling and Fry- 
ing. 

To Extract the Juice. — Soup. 

To Extract and Eetain the Juice. — Chowder. 

ENEEGY VAItJE OF FISH 

See Table, under names of fish, as Halibut, Salmon, etc. 
See Table, page G4, for energy value of other ingredients. 



162 ANIMAL FOODS 



BROILED FISH 



White fish, trout, small blue fish, mackerel, shad and small 
cod should be split down the back, and broiled whole, and if 
preferred, cut off the head and tail. Halibut and salmon 
should be cut into inch slices and turned often while broil- 
ing. 

Clean Fish. Wipe with a cloth wet in salt-water, and dry- 
on a fish towel. Season ; oily fish need only salt and pepper, 
but dry white fish should be spread with butter and salt and 
pepper before broiling. Use a double wire broiler greased 
well with salt pork rind. Put thickest edge of fish next 
middle of broiler, turn often while broiling; with split fish 
sear the fiesh side first and then turn. 

The time of cooking will vary with the thickness of fish. 
Fish is done when flesh separates easily from the bone. 

The fire should be hot and clear. When ready to serve, 
loosen the fish from broiler on each side. Open broiler, slide 
fish onto platter, having flesh side uppermost. Spread with 
butter, salt and pepper. Garnish with parsley and slices of 
lemon. Or serve with Butter Cream and a border of potato 
balls. 

Note " Pish Sauces " for Butter Cream. 

BAKED FISH 

Clean fish. Wipe with cloth wet in salted water, dry on a 
fish towel and bake on a greased fish sheet, placed in a drip- 
ping pan. A strip of cotton cloth, by which it may be lifted 
from the pan, may be substituted for the fish sheet. Sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, brush over with melted butter, dredge 
with flour, and place around fish small pieces of fat salt pork. 
Bake in hot oven until fish separates from bone when lifted 
with fork. Baste every ten minutes. Serve plain with 
melted butter, or with Egg Sauce. 

Note " Fish Sauces " for Egg Sauce. 



FISH 163 

HALIBTTT A lA CKEOLE, 413 CALORIES 

% pound halibut. 1 clove. 

% cup tomatoes. % teaspoon sugar. 

% cup water. % tablespoon butter. 

Small piece onion. % tablespoon flour. 

Sprig parsley. Salt and pepper. 

Tomato Sauce. Blend tomatoes, water, onion, parsley, 
clove and sugar, and cook ten minutes. 

Melt the butter, add the flour and pour on gradually the 
hot mixture. Add salt and pepper to taste, cook five minutes 
and strain. 

Clean fish. Wipe with cloth wet with cold salted water 
and dry thoroughly. Put in baking tin, pour around half 
the sauce and bake until fish separates easily from bone, 
basting often. Serve on hot platter, pour around it the re- 
mainder of the sauce and garnish with parsley. 

CREAMED FISH 
(Individual Rule.) 
% cup cooked fish, remove skin ^4 cup cream or white sauce 
and bone, and flake the flesh (note Fish Sauces), 
with a fork; season with salt, 
pepper, and a little lemon 
juice. 

Blend the fish and white sauce, reheat and serve on toast, 
garnish with parsley and half-slice of lemon; or serve in 
bread cases made of slices of bread cut two inches thick, 
round off edges, scoop out center, leaving case, brush with 
softened butter and brown in oven. 

Note. — White sauce may be poured on one egg yolk before 
adding fish. 

SCALLOPED nSH 

Put creamed fish into small baking dish, cover with dried 

bread or cracker crumbs; dot with bits of butter and brown 

in oven. 

CREAMED CODFISH, 828 CALORIES 

Flake salt codfish in small pieces, remove the bone ; the fish 
should be put into several cold waters to remove some of the 



164 ANIMAL FOODS 

salt. Prepare the potatoes, cutting them into eighths, or if 
small into fourths, add the shredded fish and boiling water 
to cover; cook until potatoes are tender, drain off the water 
(saving it for the sauce), add a little butter and season with 
pepper, and mash lightly and heap in center of platter. 

Sauce 

1 pint fisli and potato water. 4 tablespoons flour. 
4 tablespoons butter. Pepper. 

Melt the butter, add the flour and pour on gradually the 
potato water. Cook thoroughly, season with pepper, and 
pour about the codfish, and garnish with slices of hard-cooked 
egg and parsley. 

CREAMED CODFISH (FOR THE DIABETIC), 314 CALORIES 

% cup flaked codfish. % teaspoon Gum Gluten flour. 

1 cup milk or cream. Yolk 1 egg. 

y„ teaspoon butter. Pepper. 

Soak the fish in two waters ; melt the butter, add the flour 
and pour on gradually the scalded milk ; cook thoroughly, add 
codfish and egg, cook five minutes, season and serve on Gum 
Gluten toast or fresh bread. 

CREAMED FISH (FOR THE DIABETIC), 208 CALORIES 

% cup cooked fish. % cup cream sauce. 

Salt, pepper, lemon juice. Gum Gluten bread crumbs. 

Season fish with salt, pepper and lemon juice, add cream 
sauce, put into ramikins or cups, sprinkle with Gum Gluten 
crumbs, and bake. 

BAKED FISH (FOR THE DIABETIC), 480 CALORIES 

For baked fish make a dressing with one cup of Gum 
Gluten bread crumbs, one-half an onion, chopped fine; one 
tablespoon celery, chopped fine, one tablespoon of butter ; pep- 
per, salt, lemon juice and parsley. 

FISH (FOR THE DIABETIC) 

Pish should be rubbed with salt and pepper and dipped in 
Gum Gluten Plour, or rolled in egg and Gum Gluten Cracker 
crumbs. Saute (or fry) in oil or butter. 



FISH SAUCES 165 

riSH SAUCES 

BUTTER CREAM 

, Cream a little butter; season with salt, cayenne, lemon 
juice (speck salt and pepper, one-half teaspoon lemon juice). 
Add iinely minced parsley or chopped pickle, such as cucum- 
ber or olive. Prepare quantity according to size of fish. Put 
it on the fish, and place in oven a moment until butter is 
melted. 

CREAM OR WHITE SAUCE, 125 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
% tablespoon butter. Va cup hot milk. 

14 tablespoon flour. Salt. 

Melt butter, add flour, remove from fire, and pour on 
gradually the milk, stirring constantly. Bring to the boiling 
point, cook thoroughly and season. 

Kote. — ■ Extra milk may be added if a thinner sauce is 
desired, using one-half cup milk. 

CREAM SATICE (FOR THE DIABETIC), 138 CALORIES 

% cup milk. Salt. 

1 teaspoon Gum Gluten flour. Cayenne. 
1 teaspoon butter. 

Melt the butter, add the flour and pour on gradually the 
scalded milk ; cook thoroughly and season. 

EGG SATICE, 434 CALORIES 

2% tablespoons butter. Speck pepper. 

1% tablespoons flour. % cup hot water. 

14 teaspoon salt. 2 eggs. 

Melt one-half the butter; add flour and seasoning and 
pour on gradually the hot water. Boil five minutes and add 
remainder of butter in small pieces. Add two hard-cooked 
eggs cut into one-fourth inch slices, or the beaten yolks may 
be added to hot sauce with one-half teaspoon lemon juice. 



166 ANIMAL FOODS 

EGG SAUCE HO. II 
To Cream or "RTiite Sauce add one hard-cooked egg chopped 
fine and a little lemon Juice if desired; or add to MTiite 
Sauce, yolk slightly beaten and a few drops of lemon juice. , 

TOMATO SATJCE, 80 CALORIES 
% tablespoon butter. Few grains salt. 

% tablespoon flour. Few grains pepper. 

l^ eup strained tomato juice. 

Brown butter, add flour and stir until slightly browned; 
remove from fire and pour on gradually, stirring constantly, 
the heated tomato. Cook thoroughly and add salt and pepper. 

Note. — A sprig of parsley, one clove and a small piece of 
onion may be added to toinato while heating. 

CTJCTTMBER RELISH, 15 CALORIES 

Grate one-half cucumber and add a small piece of red pep- 
per chopped fine; season with salt, pepper and vinegar and. 
serve \^ith fish. 

HOLLANSAISE, 484 CALORIES 

1 egg yolk. Vs teaspoon salt. 

4 tablespoons butter. White pepper. 

% tablespoon vinegar. 3 tablespoons boiling water. 

Put one tablespoon butter in top of double boiler, add the 
other ingredients. Place over hot water and stir constantly 
while butter is melting. Add second tablespoon of butter 
and stir until melted, repeat this process until all butter is 
used. As soon as the mixture begins to thicken remove from 
hot water. Vary by adding a little chopped parsley, grated 
horse-radish root. 

SHELI-FISH 
OYSTERS AND CLAKS 

Only the mollusks are considered in this book, because the 
crustaceans are not easily digested, and therefore are not suit- 
able for an invalid diet. 

Oysters. Oysters are valuable food for invalids and con- 



SEELL-FISE 167 

valescents. Their nutritive value is not high, but they are 
easily digested and possess a delicate flavor which is ac- 
ceptable to most palates. 

Composition. The five food principles are represented in 
oysters. Eeckoned as " solid," i. e., removed from the shell, 
oysters contain 88.3 per cent, of water, 6.1 per cent, protein, 
1.4 per cent, fat, and 3.3 per cent, carbohydrate. Oysters 
come nearer to milk than almost any other common food 
material, both in amount and proportion of nutritive prin- 
ciples. 

The carbohydrate is in the form of glycogen, being found 
in the liver, which constitutes a large proportion of the oyster. 

Digestibility. The soft part of the oyster or clam is made 
up largely of the stomach and liver and is easily digested 
when cooked in a variety of ways — broiling, roasting, stew- 
ing, panning and steaming — but not fried when served to 
the sick. 

The hard part of shellfish is the muscle which fastens the 
animal to the shell, and is rendered tougher by all forms of 
cooking; therefore, when whole oysters are to be eaten, they 
are more easily digested when served raw or broiled slightly 
in the shell. They can be digested by fever patients and 
those suffering from many forms of gastric disorders. 

It is desirable in acute illness to serve only the soft part 
of the oyster, but in the later stages of convalescence the 
whole oyster can be served raw or in stew and soups, which 
are recommended on account of their liquid form and warmth. 

When in Season. Oysters are in season from September to 
May. During the rest of the year they are insipid and unfit 
for food. 

Principles to he Carefully Observed in Serving and Cook- 
ing Oysters for the Sich. (a) Make every effort to have the 
oyster alive when used, or as fresh as can be obtained from 
a reliable dealer. Many serious cases of illness and even 
death have been caused by eating oysters so long dead that 
poisonous substances had formed in them. Great care should 
also be taken that oysters are not procured from beds where 



168 ANIMAL FOODS 

the water has been contaminated in any way. " As it is in 
general impossible to learn their origin the rule of never eat- 
ing them in the raw state is adopted by many. The practice 
of fattening or ' floating ' oysters in fresh or in brackish 
water robs them of much of their fine flavor, and since the 
most accessible supply of such water is at the outlet of 
streams, and as such streams are frequently polluted by sew- 
age, many persons -believe that this practice should be for- 
bidden by law." ^ 

(b) Oysters contain an albuminous substance which in- 
creases in hardness with an increase of temperature, just as 
the albumin of an egg does. When oysters are cooked with 
reference to this albuminous substance, they are also cooked 
in the best possible manner with reference to their other con- 
stituents; therefore subject them to a low temperature, for 
a short time, bearing in mind that 160 to 180 degrees Fahren- 
heit is the cooking temperature of albumin. 

General rule is to remove the oyster from heat as soon 
as the body grows plump and the edges curl, if cooked be- 
yond this stage they are over-cooked. 

Varieties. In New York State the " Blue Points " are 
considered the finest for serving raw. They come originally 
from Blue Point, Long Island. 

In Massachusetts the " Cove " Oyster is considered the fin- 
est for serving raw. They come from a still water cove near 
Plymouth. 

Clams. Clams are similar in composition to the oyster 
and same general rules followed in preparing and serving. 
They are much used for food and considered a great delicacy. 
They contain a tough portion that is not used in sick-room 
cookery, but the clear juice, on account of its digestibility 
and stimulating properties, is invaluable in the sick room. 
Clams are in season all the year around. 

Varieties. There are two varieties, the hard and soft shell 
clams. The hard shell are known as quahaugs. The small 

'Farmer's Bulletin No. 375. 



OYSTERS 169 

or round " little neck clams " take the place of Blue Points 
to serve raw when oysters are out of season. 
ENERGY VAITTE OF OYSTERS 

2 oysters ==14 Calories. 

100 grams oysters =50 Calories. 

1 cup (solid) oysters =3 84 Calories. 

See Table, page 64, for energy value of other ingredients. 
RAW OYSTERS 

Wash, scrub the shells well under a stream of water with 
a vegetable brush. With a hammer break the thin edges of 
the shell so that a knife may be inserted to sever the muscle 
which holds the two parts of the shell together: when this is 
cut remove the upper half and wipe the edges free from any 
grains of sand. Then sever the muscle which joins the oyster 
to the other shell, so that it may be easily lifted out without 
the necessity of cutting. Arrange six oysters on an oyster- 
plate on crushed ice, and serve with salt, black pepper and 
lemon Juice. A quarter of lemon cut lengthwise may be 
placed in the center of plate, and bit of parsley. 

OYSTERS ROASTED IN THE SHELL 

Wash the shells very carefully with a brush. Put them 
in a wire broiler over glowing coals, the round side of shell 
down so as to hold the juice. Cook them quickly, turning 
once or twice until the shell opens. They may also be cooked 
in a hot oven. When done remove the upper half of the shell ; 
season them quickly with salt, pepper and a tiny bit of but- 
ter and vinegar, if liked, and serve them while very hot. 

The true oyster flavor is delightfully developed by pre- 
paring in this way. They may also be served with melted 
butter, salt, pepper and lemon juice. 

TO WASH OYSTERS 
Place oysters in strainer over a bowl and pour one table- 
spoon of water over each one-half cup of oysters. Take each 
oyster up in fingers and remove any particle of shell that may 
adhere to tough muscle. 



170 ANIMAL FOODS 

PAN EOAST OYSTERS 

"Wash oysters and put in saute pan or chafing dish and 
gently stir with spoon. When bodies grow plump and the 
edges curl remove from heat. Season with salt and pepper 
and a little butter and serve on rounds of toast, with eighth 
;of lemon for individual dishes; or serve on platter and 
garnish with toast points, watercress and lemon. 

BROILED OYSTERS, 320 CALORIES 
(Individual Rule.) 
4 oysters. 4 teaspoons butter. 

Vi cup cracker crumbs. Salt and pepper. 

Select large oysters. Wash, drain and dry between towels. 
Melt butter. Season cracker crumbs with salt and pepper. 
With silver fork lift each oyster by tough muscle, and dip 
first in butter, then in crumbs. Place on a buttered fine wire 
broiler and broil, turning often until brown and the Juice be- 
gins to flow. Serve plain, garnished with parsley and a piece 
of lemon or prepare cream toast and sprinkle with fine 
.chopped celery, and place the broiled oysters on top. 

CREAMED OYSTERS, 284 CALORIES i 

(Individual Rule.) 
8 oysters. % cup rich milk or thin cream. 

1 tablespoon butter. Salt. 

1^4 tablespoon flour. White pepper. 

Wash, drain and dry oyster between towels. Melt butter 
and remove from fire, add the flour and pour on gradually the 
scalded milk. Season with salt and pepper. Cook thor- 
oughly. Add the oysters and heat until the edges curl and 
the bodies grow plump. Serve at once on rounds of toast 
and garnish with toast points and parsley or in crisped " bread 
cases." See " Creamed Pish." 

CREAMED OYSTERS NO. II, 340 CALORIES 2 

(Individual Rule.) 

% cup thin cream or rich milk. 1 teaspoon butter. 

1 tablespoon flour. 8 oysters. 

14 teaspoon salt. 

^ Calculated with "whole milk. 
^ Calculated with thin cream. 



OYSTERS 171 

Wet the flour with a little cold milk; scald the cream, add 
the flour and cook well. Just before serving add the drained 
oysters and cook until they grow plump and the edges curl; 
add the salt and butter. Serve in Swedish timbale shells, lit- 
tle scooped-out buns, or on rounds of toast. 

SCALIOPED OYSTERS, 365 CAIOKIES 
(Individual Rule.) 
% cup oysters. Salt. 

% cup cracker crumbs. Pepper. 

Va cup stale bread crumbs. % tablespoon cream. 

1 tablespoon melted butter. 1 tablespoon oyster liquor. 

Prepare the oysters. Stir together crumbs and melted but- 
ter. Butter a small baking dish and sprinkle part of the 
crumbs in it. Put in half the oysters, sprinkle with salt 
and pepper, then a layer of crumbs, pour over enough cream 
or oyster liquor to moisten well, add the remaining oysters, 
season, and finish with a layer of crumbs on top. Bake in a 
hot oven about ten minutes, till oysters are plump and crumbs 
browned. Serve hot. 

Never allow more than two layers as they will not cook 
evenly. A sprinkling of mace or nutmeg is considered an 
improvement by some. Sherry wine may be used in place 
of cream. 

OYSTER SOUP, 25a CAIORIES 
(Individual Rule.) 
% cup oysters. 1 tablespoon butter. 

14 cup water. % tablespoon flour. 

14 cup milk. Grating of mace. 

Bit of onion. Salt and pepper. 

Scald the milk. Melt the butter, add the flour and pour 
on gradually the scalded milk ; add mace and onion, and cook 
thoroughly. 

Put oysters in a strainer placed over a bowl, add water and 
carefully pick over oysters to remove particles of shell. Heat 
liquor which has drained from oysters to the boiling point, 
strain through two thicknesses of cheese-cloth, and return to 



172 ANIMAL FOODS 

saucepan, add oysters and cook until plump and edges curl. 
Drain oif liquor and add to soup. Season, add oysters and 
serve immediately. 

OYSTER SOUP (FOB, THE DIABETIC), 107 CALORIES 

(Two Servings.) 
One-half pint of oysters, heated in their own liquor ; strain. 
Put in saucepan one-half teaspoonful butter and a scant half- 
teaspoonful of Gum Gluten Flour, add liquor, and, when 
slightly thick, oysters, pepper and salt. For variety, add 
occasionally a tablespoonful of cream. 

OYSTER STEW, 205 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
% cup oysters. 14 teaspoon salt. 

% cup milk. Speck pepper. 

% tablespoon water. '^ tablespoon butter. 

Scald the milk. Put oysters in a strainer placed over a 
bowl, and add water. Carefully pick over oysters to remove 
particles of shell. Heat the liquor which has drained from 
the oysters to the boiling point, and strain through the finest 
strainer and cheese-cloth, return to saucepan and put in the 
oysters and simmer, but do not boil, until they begin to grow 
plump and the edges curl and separate. Strain the liquor 
into the scalded milk, season, add oysters and serve imme- 
diately. 

CLAMS 
ENERGY VALUE OF CLAMS 

% dozen clams =40 Calories. 

314 ounces clam bouillon = 2 Calories. 

1 quart clam bouillon =23 Calories. 

See Table, page 64, for energy value of other ingredients. 

LITTLE NECK CLAMS 

Serve raw on the half-shell in same manner as raw oysters. 

STEAMED CLAMS 

For steaming, clams should be bought in the shell. Wash 
in several waters, scrubbing thoroughly. Put into kettle, 



CLAMS 173 

allowing one-fourth cup water to one quart clams. Cover 
closely and steam until clams partially open. Care should 
be taken not to overcook them. Serve with melted butter. A 
few drops of lemon juice may be added to butter. 

CLAM BROTH 
(Individual Rule.) 
1 dozen clams. 2 tablespoons cold water. 

Wash clams and scrub with a brush, changing the water 
several times. Put in saucepan, add water, cover, and cook 
until shells open. Eemove clams from shell, adding liquor 
which comes from them, to liquor already in saucepan. 
Strain liquor through double thickness of cheese-cloth. Serve 
hot, cold, or frozen. 

CLAM WATER 

(Individual Rule.) 
% cup cold water. Clam Broth. 

To the water add the required amount of the clam broth 
to make the strength desired. Serve hot, cold, or frozen. 
When necessary, serve in small quantity and repeat at short 
intervals. 

K'ote. — • Clam broth served in the several ways (as a 
variety) is invaluable in case of weak stomach, indigestion 
and general debility. 

CLAM WATER NO. II, 17 CALORIES 
(Individual Rule.) 

Vi cup Clam Broth. Pepper. 

1 tablespoon milk. % teaspoon butter. 

% cup hot water. 

Blend the clam broth, milk and hot water, season with 
pepper and add the butter. Serve hot. 

Note. — The pepper and butter may be omitted when neces- 
sary. 



174 ANIMAL FOODS 

CLAU STEW, 250 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

% cup clam broth. % teaspoon salt. 

% cup scalded milk. Speck pepper. 

1 tablespoon butter. Soft part of 1 dozen clams. 

% tablespoon flour. 

Melt butter, add flour, add gradually the scalded milk and 
clam broth, and cook thoroughly. Season, add clams and 
serve hot. 

CIAM SOTTP, 276 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

% dozen clams. % tablespoon butter. 

% cup cold water. % tablespoon flour. 

1 cup milk. Salt and pepper. 

Wash and scrub clams and put in kettle with cold water. 
Cook until shells open. Take from shell and cut off the 
tough parts; save the soft parts for the soup and keep warm. 
Scald the milk. Melt the butter, add the flour and pour 
on gradually the hot milk. Cook thoroughly; add soft parts 
of clams and juice, season with salt and pepper, and serve 
immediately and hot. 

CLAM BOTTILLON, 45 CALORIES 

(Two Servings.) 
% cup cold water. Salt. 

V2 cup dam broth. Pepper. 

% cup scalding milk. Celery sauce. 

14 teaspoon butter. White of egg or whipped cream. 

Blend the water and clam broth, heat to the boiling point, 
then add the scalding milk, the butter, and stir well ; season 
with salt, pepper and celery sauce to taste. A small quan- 
tity of cracker crumbs may be added to thicken it. Serve in 
heated bouillon cups and garnish with two teaspoons of 
whipped cream or well-beaten white of egg. 



EOOS 175 

CLAH BOUILLON BISftTTE, 355 CALOKIES 

(Two Servings.) 
14 tablespoon butter. 14 tablespoon flour. 

1 tablespoon chopped onion. 1 cup boiling water. 

% tablespoon chopped carrot. Yolk 1 egg. 
1 cup clam broth. Yi cup cream. 

Melt the butter, add the finely chopped onion and carrot, 
cover and cook until the onion and carrot are tender, stirring 
it occasionally. Add the flour, blending well; then pour on 
gradually the boiling water and the clam broth. Cook five 
minutes, strain and return to saucepan. Mix the yolk of egg 
with the cream, and add it slowly to the Bisque. Pour into 
heated bouillon cups, and serve with small oyster crackers. 

ALBUMINIZED CLAM WATER 
See " Albuminized Beverages " for recipe. Page 123. 

CLAM BEOTH NO. II 
See " Meat Broth and Jellies " for recipe. Page 320. 

CLAM BROTH ON TOAST 

See " Toast " for recipe. Page 258. 
CLAM FRAPPE 
See " Ices " for recipe. Page 313. 

CLAM SHERBET 
See " Sherbets " for recipe. Page 312. 

EGGS 1 

Many kinds of eggs are eaten, but hens' eggs are the only 
ones necessary of consideration as a staple article of diet. 
The shell constitutes about 1.1 per cent, of the weight of the 
whole egg, the yolk 32 per cent., and the white 57 per cent. 

Composition. Eggs are albuminous in nature and con- 
sist practically of the following substances — protein, water, 
fat and mineral matter. The composition of the hen's egg is 
as follows: 

^ For further information, note "Eggs and Tiieir Uses as Food." Farm- 
er's Bulletin No. 128, U. S. Dept. of Agriculture, Wasliington, D. C. 



176 ANIMAL FOODS 

Fuel val;^e 
Refuse Water Protein Fat Ash per pound 

calories 

Whole egg as purchased. . .12.2% 65.5% H.9% 9.3% 0.9% 635 

Whole egg, edible portion. . 73.7% 13.4% 10.5% 1.0% 720 

White 86.2% 12.3% 0.2% 0.6%, 250 

Yolk 49.5%, 15.7% 33.3% 1.1%, 1705 

From this table it may be seen that the white of egg con- 
sists of eight-tenths water, the remaining portion being prin- 
cipally protein (albumin), with a little mineral matter, etc., 
the yolk is about half water, one-third fat, and nearly one- 
sixth protein, with almost twice as much mineral matter as 
the white. 

Varieties. By eggs the product of the domestic fowl are 
commonly meant. The eggs of the duck, goose, turkey, etc., 
are edible, but are hardly suited for the sick, because of their 
stronger flavor. The purely white eggs are usually selected 
for the invalid, but many regard the brown-shelled egg as the 
more delicate. 

Digestibility. Eggs are easily digested and very thoroughly 
absorbed in the intestines. If the absorption is delayed, de- 
composition follows with production of sulphuretted hydrogen 
and ammonia, which causes considerable gastro-enteric disturb- 
ance. The yolk is usually the cause of this disturbance. The 
digestibility of an egg depends upon its freshness and the 
manner in which it is cooked. ^ Carelessness in cooking and 
serving may make an egg difficult of digestion and un- 
appetizing, when, if it is cooked properly, it would be more 
palatable and easy of digestion. A raw egg, on account of its 
blandness, does not stimulate the flow of gastric juice and is 
not as easily digested as a soft-cooked egg; but by heating a 
raw egg the albumin is finely divided and is more quickly 
acted upon by gastric juice, consequently is digested about 
as quickly as a soft-cooked egg. Eaw eggs are added to 
various foods, as milk and broth, etc., to give extra nutriment. 
Eggs are freely prescribed for those suffering from loss of 
flesh and strength, as the convalescent, anaemic, or in tubercu- 

1 See Albumin, p. 11. 



EGGS 177 

losis; in such cases as many as twelve eggs being given in as 
many hours. 

A soft-cooked egg digests very quickly. 

A medium-cooked egg is not as easily digested as either 
the raw, soft or hard-cooked, and should not be served cooked 
in this manner to the sick. 

A hard-cooked egg as commonly cooked is difficult to di- 
gest, but cooked at proper temperature and chopped very fine 
will digest about as quickly as a soft-cooked egg. 

Nutritive Value. Eggs are a very nutritious food, com- 
parable with meat, milk, cheese, and other animal foods, both 
as regards total food material and the total protein and fat 
furnished by them. At twenty-five cents per dozen they are 
commonly considered very expensive, but this must not be 
interpreted too literally. Many persons will be satisfied with 
an egg who would not be with the equivalent food value in 
the form of meat, and eggs are valuable for giving variety 
to the diet and for furnishing an easily digested protein food, 
especially for the sedentary. For children they are much 
better than meat, because the fat is in an emulsified, and 
hence easily digested form, and because of their ash con- 
stituents. The yolk is rich in compounds of iron, phosphorus, 
calcium, magnesium. The protein of egg yolk is combined 
■\vith lecithin, a phosphorized fat which has come to be re- 
garded as an important constituent of food, especially for the 
growing animal. Egg yolks are frequently prescribed for 
invalids requiring an easily assimilated, concentrated food. 
It should be remembered that when fat is barred from the 
diet, egg yolk should not be given. 

Egg white is valuable chiefly as a source of protein. Be- 
cause of its mild flavor it can be combined with many sub- 
stances, especially milk and other beverages (See "Al- 
buminous Beverages," page 118), to increase the nutritive 
value of a liquid or semi-solid diet. 

"With some persons, eggs induce constipation, or have a 
slight aphrodisiac effect. They contain sulphur, and unless 
digested before decomposition occurs in the alimentary tract. 



178 ANIMAL FOODS 

give rise to hydrogen sulphide gas. They should not be eaten 
by those suffering from flatulent dyspepsia, gastric dilatation, 
or any severe gastric derangement. They are contraindicated 
in acute Bright's disease. 

Principles to be Observed in Cooking. The principal con- 
stituent of the egg is albumin, which should be cooked in 
such a manner as to require the least possible expenditure of 
force in digestion. Those who are ill cannot afford to waste 
energy, and whether they are forced to do so or not depends 
much upon those who prepare their food. 

Effect of Temperature on Albumin. See " Albumin," page 
11. 

The proper cooking temperature of egg albumin is 160 to 
180 degree Fahrenheit, when it is found to be tender, soft, 
Jelly-like, and in an easily digested state. 

But cooked at the boiling point of water, 312 degrees 
Fahrenheit, albumin is found to be firm, compact, tough and 
indigestible. With this knowledge we can appreciate the 
necessity of cooking eggs at a temperature below that of boil- 
ing water. It is often advisable to cook the white and yolk 
of eggs separately, as the yolk when hard cooked (at proper 
temperature) and mealy is more easily digested than the 
soft cooked yolk, and the white more easily digested soft 
cooked. 

Suggestions. Eggs should be kept in a cool, dry place. 
Always wash eggs just before using. Save the shell for mak- 
ing boiled coffee, as the shells of three eggs is as effective in 
settling coffee as one whole egg. When using several eggs 
break them separately in a saucer to test the quality of each. 

In beating fresh eggs to a stiff froth the albumin entraps 
the air, forming bubbles which expand and stiffen when ex- 
posed to heat and blended with batter and dough, thus mak- 
ing the food light and spongy. Stale eggs lose this quality 
of frothiness. 

Test for Fresh Eggs. (1) The shell of a fresh egg is 
slightly rough ; held to the ear and shake slightly there should 
be little sound, held in front of electric light or candle in 



EGGS 179 

a dark room if they look more transparent in center they are 
fresh, if more transparent at ends, are stale. 

(2) In a solution made of two ounces of common salt and 
one pint of water, an egg one day old will sink (not quite 
reach the bottom) ; three days old will barely float above the 
surface, and seven days old will float above the surface. This 
is due to the loss of water and to the development of gases of 
putrefaction. Unless air is excluded from eggs they very 
quickly deteriorate in value and decompose. 

The water in the egg evaporates through the shell, which 
is porous, and air rushes in to take its place, causing decompo- 
sition of the organic matter of the egg, the result being the 
formation of various gases — principally sulphuretted hydro- 
gen, due to the action of putrefactive bacteria which enter 
the shell with air. Eggs eaten in this state may cause gastric 
and intestinal disorders, therefore, unless eggs are perfectly 
fresh, they should not be given to a child or a person of 
delicate digestion or the sick. 

ENERGY VALUE OF AN EGG 

1 average egg =60 Calories. 

1 average white of egg =13 Calories. 

1 average yolk of egg =48 Calories. 

See Table, page 64, for energy value of other ingredients. 

SOFT COOKED EGGS 

Wash one egg and put it in a small saucepan of boiling 
water to cover ; remove to back of stove, or where the water 
will keep very hot, but not boil. Cook seven to ten minutes, 
according to consistency desired. Serve in slightly heated 
cups. 

Note. — A stone crock is nice to use, as it keeps more even 
heat. A double boiler may be used, putting boiling water 
in top and bottom, set on back of stove and cook six. to seven 
minutes, according to size of egg. 

Care must be taken that the size of utensil is in accordance 
with the number of eggs to be cooked, so that the cold eggs 



180 ANHIAL FOODS 

will lower the temperature of the boiling water. Keep tem- 
perature about 160 degree Fahrenheit, or a little above. 

SOFT COOKED EGGS NO. II 

Wash one egg and put it in a small saucepan of cold water 
to cover. Bring just to boiling point, remove and serve in 
slightly heated cups. 

HARD COOKED EGGS 

Follow directions for soft cooked eggs No. I, allowing egg 
to remain in water forty-five minutes. Chop fine and add 
one-half teaspoon butter and a few grains salt, serve in 
slightly heated cups. 

STEAMED EGGS 

Butter an egg shirrer or a small sauce-plate and pour in 
the eggs. Salt, place in steamer over boiling water, and 
cook till white is firm. Cooked in this manner, the white is 
tender and light and can be eaten by invalids. 

BAKED EGGS 

Plain baked eggs make a pretty breakfast dish. Take a 
deep earthen plate, butter it and break in the eggs, adding 
salt, pepper, bits of butter, and bake in a moderate oven until 
the white is set. Garnish with curled parsley and serve with 
buttered toast. Use a small dish to prepare one egg. 

Note. — Before cooking 3/^ tablespoon of cream to each 
egg may be poured over them, and in serving a little grated 
cheese may be sifted over the top. 

BAKED EGGS (FOB, THE DIABETIC) 

Break an egg into a baking-cup, pour gently over it a large 
tablespoonful of m'elted butter sauce; then add a thick layer 
of grated cheese; sprinkle with Gum Gluten cracker crumbs, 
and dot with bits of butter. Bake until the egg is set, and 
serve at once. 



EOGS 181 

60ISEN-R0I) EGGS 

1 hard-cooked egg = 60 Calories. 2 slices toast = 146 Calories. 

Sauce :^ 170 Calories. 

2 teaspoons butter. Speck white pepper. 
14 tablespoon flour. Salt. 

y^ cup scalded milk. 

Prepare the sauce. Add the white of egg chopped fine, 
pour over the toast and rub the yolk through a strainer over 
the top. Serve at once. 

Sauce. Melt butter, add ilour and gradually the scalded 
milk; cook well and season with salt and pepper. 

EGG NESTS, 142 CALORIES 
1 egg. 1 round of toast with toast 

% teaspoon butter. points. 

Salt to taste. 

Toast bread. Separate egg. Beat white to a stiff froth. 
Salt to taste. Spread toast with butter and put white of egg 
on in shape of nest. Make a depression in center, put in the 
butter and drop the yolk in the hollow. Cook in a moderate 
oven three or four minutes. 

Note. — May be cooked in tumbler placed in pan of water, 
allowing the water to heat gradually, and as the white rises, 
make a depression and drop in yolk. 

It may be served with Tomato Sauce. 

FOAMY OMELET, 144 CALORIES 
1 egg. Vz saltspoon salt. 

1 tablespoon milk. Speck pepper. 

2 teaspoons butter. 

Separate egg and beat white to a stiff froth. Beat yolk 
till light, add milk, salt and pepper; lightly fold the yolk 
into the white. Put butter into saute pan, when it bubbles 
pour in the mixture. Gently shake pan so omelet will not 
adhere to it ; lift up at sides with a knife to see when done, 
and when a delicate brown set pan in oven a minute to 
absorb moisture on top. Fold omelet half over, turn on a 
hot dish, and serve immediately. 



183 ANIMAL FOODS 

Variations. Mix one tablespoon ham, or any meat, 
chopped fine, with foamy omelet, and cook as directed. Or 
when omelet is cooked, the chopped meat may be spread over 
before folding. A little chopped parsley may be added. Oys- 
ters either whole or chopped, or creamed chicken, stewed or 
sliced tomatoes, asparagus tips, peas or jelly may be used. 

BAKED MEAT OMELET 

Prepare Foamy Omelet and add to it the chopped meat. 
Put it into a buttered pudding-dish, set it in a pan of hot 
water and bake until firm. 

BREAD OMELET, 164 CALORIES 

2 tablespoons bread crumbs. Speck pepper. 

2 tablespoons milk. 1 egg. 

Speck salt. 1 teaspoon butter. 

Soak bread crumbs in the cold milk for ten minutes, add 
the salt and pepper. Separate egg and beat until light. Add 
the crumbs and milk to the yolk and fold in the white. Fol- 
low general directions as for Foamy Omelet. 

POACHED OR DROPPED EGGS 
Toast a square or round piece of bread and four toast 
points; put on hot plate with points at each side and garnish 
with a sprig of parsley. Have a shallow pan two-thirds full 
of boiling salted water, allowing one teaspoon salt to one pint 
water. Put a slightly buttered muffin ring on a buttered 
skimmer in the water. Break an egg into the ring. The 
water should cover the egg. When there is a film on top and 
the white is firm, carefully take up skimmer, remove ring, 
loosen egg with a knife and place on the toast; salt slightly. 
The toast may be buttered if desired. 

EGG POACHED IN MILE, 470 CALORIES 

1 egg. Salt. 

IVs teaspoons butter. 2 tablespoons grated cheese. 

% cup thin cream. 

Melt butter in top of double boiler, add cream and when 
hot drop in carefully the egg. Cook until white is nearly 



EGGS 183 

firm, add salt and sprinkle with cheese. Serve an toast. 
Cheese may be omitted. 

CODDLES OR SCBAUBLED EGGS, 180 CALORIES 

1 egg. 1 saltspoon salt. 

% cup milk. Speck pepper. 

1 teaspoon butter. 

Beat egg in top of double boiler until light, add milk and 
rest of ingredients and stir over boiling water until it thick- 
ens; allow it to stand a few minutes without stirring, to set. 
Serve on toast or hot rice. 

EGG SANDWICHES, 96 CALORIES 

1 hard-cooked egg. '% teaspoon mustard. 

14 teaspoon salt. 3 drops vinegar. 

Speck paprika. 1 teaspoon butter. 

Mince the egg very fine with a silver fork, add seasonings 
and butter, and mix thoroughly. Butter very thin slices of 
bread, spread with egg mixture, cover it with watercress 
leaves, or bits of nasturtium leaves, or lettuce. Cover with 
another slice of bread, and cut in triangles or rounds. Serve 
on small plate and doily. 

Note. — Minced ham may be added to egg mixture. 

SHIRRED EGGS 

Butter an egg shirrer, ramikins, or small earthen cups; 
put one egg in each without breaking yolk ; dust with salt and 
white pepper, put in pan of hot water and cook on back of 
range or in a moderate oven until white is set. If baked, 
cover with a buttered paper to keep from browning. 

SHIRRED EGGS NO. II 

Butter small, deep earthen dishes and line with fine white 
bread crumbs moistened to a paste, and seasoned with salt 
and pepper. Break an egg in each, sprinkle with a few grains 
of salt, cover with more paste and bake in a pan of hot water, 
placed in the oven. When egg is set, serve with two table- 
spoons of tomatoes or cream sauce poured over it, and garnish 
with a sprig of parsley. 



184 ANIMAL FOODS 

FILLED EGGS, 96 CALORIES 

1 hard-cooked egg. % teaspoon mustard. 

1 teaspoon butter or Paprika. 

1 teaspoon olive oil. Salt. 

Eemove the shell and cut the egg in halves lengthwise. 
Take out the yolk carefully without breaking the white. Rub 
the yolk to a smooth paste, adding the butter or oil and the 
seasonings, and mix thoroughly. A small quantity of finely 
chopped ham, tongue or chicken may be added. Fill the 
whites with the mixture and serve on lettuce, or in a bed of 
parsley. 

EGG DESSERTS 

See " Nutritious Desserts " for recipe. Page 386. 

ALBXTKIITOUS BEVERAGES 

See " Albuminous Beverages " for recipe. Page 118. 

MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS ^ 

Milk is the only substance in nature designed expressly for 
the nourishment of the young animal. It contains all the 
compounds necessary to support life, in remarkably good pro- 
portions and in very assimilable forms. It is a perfect food 
for infants, and is specially suited to the needs of certain 
classes of invalids and sedentary persons. Por the active 
adult it is undesirable as the sole article of diet, because the 
proportion of water is so high that large quantities have to 
be taken to supply the necessary energy; because the propor- 
tion of protein is unnecessarily high ; and because it furnishes 
no indigestible residues to supply bulk for the perfect func- 
tioning of the intestines. 

Composition. Milk contains the five food principles, the 
proportions varying somewhat with different species, and also 
with individuals of the same species. Cow's milk, which is 
most extensively used, is the only kind which will be con- 
sidered here. Milk has a specific gravity of 1.027 to 1.035. 

^ For further information, note " Tlie Use of Milk as Food," Farmer's 
Bulletin No. 363, U. S. Dept. of Agriculture, Washington, D. C. 



MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 185 

The chief bulk is water, which averages 87 per cent. ' The 
solid matter is made up of proteins, fats, carbohydrates and 
mineral matter. The average percentages are as follows: 
Protein, 3.3 per cent.; fat, 4 per cent.; carbohydrates, 5 per 
cent; mineral matter, 0.7 per cent. 

The principal protein is casein, a compound containing 
both phosphorus and sulphur. Casein is precipitated (or 
coagulated) by the addition of acid or in neutral solutions, 
by rennet. Milk also contains lactalbumin, arranging about 
1/7 of the total protein. The character of the curd depends 
largely on the relative proportions of casein and lactalbu:piin. 

The fat of milk varies widely in amount. It is found 
throughout the milk in globules, i. e., as an emulsion. On 
standing, the fat rises to the top and forms cream chemically. 
Several fats are present, chiefly stearin, palmitin and olein, 
with smaller amounts of others, which give the characteristic 
flavor to butter. The chief carbohydrate is lactose or milk 
sugar. This remains in the whey when the casein and fat 
are removed. 

The ash constituents are mainly phosphates and chlorides 
of calcium, sodium and potassium. 

Digestibility. While milk is taken as a liquid, it should 
really be regarded as a solid food, for in the stomach it is 
coagulated by the action of the enzyme rennin in the gastric 
juice. If the milk is swallowed hastily, a large, tenacious 
curd may form, which will remain long in the stomach, and 
the milk will be regarded as difficult of digestion. If the 
milk is sipped slowly — or eaten with a spoon — the curds will 
be small, and hence readily acted on by the gastric juice. 
For this reason, the combination of milk with another food 
material, as bread or cereal gruel, may render it more easily 
digestible. Many persons think that they cannot digest milk. 
This is seldom true, if the above precautions are taken. 

Nutritive Value. Milk is a high protein food. In infancy 
it therefore furnishes the nitrogen necessary for the forma- 
tion of new protoplasm. Throughout the growing period, it 
furnishes the most valuable source of protein, as it is non- 



186 ANIMAL FOODS 

stimulating, and less liable to putrefaction in the alimentary 
tract than meat proteins. Given a quart of milk and an egg 
each day, a child under eight years of age on a suitable diet 
of proper fuel value, will have sufBcient protein for all body 
needs. 

The fat of milk, being in an emulsified form, is more 
readily digested than the fat of meats and other similar foods. 
The carbohydrates of milk require only transformation to 
simple sugars by the intestinal enzyme lactase, to be per- 
fectly utilized. Often the energy value of milk is increased 
for infants and invalids, by addition of this soluble, mild- 
flavored compound.' 

The ash of milk contains the elements required for the 
bony tissues in particularly assimilable forms. It is lack- 
ing in iron, so that this element must be supplied by other 
foods (as yolk of egg) when milk is the chief source of nutri- 
ment. 

The value of milk as a food is not appreciated by many 
people. It is frequently regarded as a beverage rather than 
nutriment, while in fact a quart of milk is equivalent in food 
value to half a loaf of bread (six ounces) or three-quarters of 
a pound of lean beef. It contains as much protein as one- 
third of a pound of lean beef, at approximately the same 
price, and in addition about as much fat as is daily con- 
sumed at the table in the form of butter, over one and one-half 
ounces of milk sugar, and valuable mineral salts. Compared 
with other animal foods milk is a cheap food, even at 10 or 13 
cents per quart, and should enter freely into the dietary. It 
need not be nsed as a beverage if disliked, but can be combined 
with other materials in soups, sauces for vegetable, custards 
and the like, or used in cooking cereals, in place of water. 

The value of skim milk as a food also needs to be empha- 
sized. It has lost most of the fat in the skimming processes, 
but is correspondingly richer than whole milk in protein, 
carbohydrates and ash. It is not as rich in flavor as whole 
milk, but used in combination with other foods it forms a 
very inexpensive source of valuable nutriment, two and one- 



MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 18? 

half quarts of skim milk will yield as much protein as a 
pound of lean round steak, at less than one-fourth the cost. 

Care of milk. The importance of keeping milk clean can- 
not be over-emphasized. Aside from all esthetic considera- 
tions, absolute cleanliness is essential as a protection to 
health. Milk is an excellent culture medium for bacteria, and 
these organisms may not only be of types producing changes 
in the character of the milk, such as alterations in flavor, 
odor, color, decomposition of proteins, formation of gases, 
alcohol, lactic acid, etc., but also disease germs, especially 
those of tuberculosis, scarlet fever, typhoid fever, and diph- 
theria. 

Commercially, care of milk is important as effecting the 
keeping qualities. For all these reasons, milk should come 
from a healthy animal in a sanitary environment. Milking 
must be done under conditions which protect the milk as 
fully as possible from contamination through impurities on 
the cow herself, on the hands or clothing of the milker, in 
the receptacles used for the milk, and in the air, in the place 
where the milking is done. Milk should, be immediately 
cooled, and transported to the consumer in sealed bottles; 
cooling prevents the growth of bacteria. Such cautions 
necessarily increase the price of milk, but even then milk is 
a cheap food and the additional security is worth paying 
for. 

Certification of MilTc. To insure a milk free from im- 
purities, the method of certification and pasteurization have 
been widely adopted. 

Certification involves a specific testing of milk against all 
accidental and harmful contamination. To secure it the 
services of chemists, bacteriologists and veterinary surgeons 
are required. The most vital object desired is the exclusion 
of tubercule bacilli from milk, which involves a special in- 
spection of dairy herds and rejection of tuberculous cows. 
Other pernicious germs, pus corpuscles, etc:, are also sought 
for. 

Certification of milk requires periodical inspection of 



188 ANIMAL FOODS 

dairies, of bottled milk bought in open market, etc. All milk 
must correspond to a number and variety of tests, too numer- 
ous to be mentioned in this connection. Every branch of 
the milk trade is covered. Such milk receives a certificate 
which should contain the date of milking and is naturally ex- 
pensive, but it should be used vehenever possible for infants 
and little children, and for all purposes in households which 
buy the best grades of other food materials. 

Pasteurization. This is the process by which milk is ren- 
dered more or less sterile through destruction of active bac- 
teria by heat. Various standards as to temperature and 
time have been adopted, but in general the milk is heated 
to a temperature not exceeding 167° F., for a period of 30 to 
45 minutes, and then rapidly cooled to 45° P. or lower. 
Most harmful bacteria and lactic acid bacteria are killed. 
Spores are not killed, and if the milk is not kept cold or is 
allowed to stand too long, putrefactive organisms develop. 
These putrefactive changes are very undesirable, so that the 
care of pasteurized milk is just as important as that of fresh 
milk. If carelessly handled, the fact that it does not sour 
readily is a menace to health rather than a benefit. 

Commercial pasteurization is a cheap and effective means of 
preventing the spread of ordinary infectious diseases. The 
degree of heat used does not change materially the flavor nor 
the chemical composition of the milk. It does destroy the 
enzymes naturally present in milk, and how much this affects 
the value of milk for infants is still unsettled. When clean 
fresh milk cannot be absolutely insured, it is safer to pas- 
teurize. But this process cannot make bad milk good nor 
dirty milk clean. If bacteria have already produced poison- 
ous products it will not destroy them. 

Sterilization. Sterilization is accomplished by keeping 
milk at boiling temperature (313° F.) for 10 or more minutes, 
preferably in the vessel in which it is to remain. This will 
kill all living bacteria, but will not destroy spores. Hence 
to render milk absolutely sterile, repetition of the process on 
successive days is necessary. This is rarely done, as the 



MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 189 

spores are not likely to develop if the milk is kept at a 
temperature of 40° P. or less. 

Sterilized milk is not an ideal food. Boiling changes the 
taste, the cream does not rise as quickly, and it is less easily 
coagulated by the action of rennet. Lecithin is decomposed, 
diminishing the amount of organic phosphorus compounds, 
and increasing the inorganic phosphorus which is not as use- 
ful to the body. The calcium salts are changed, and the 
ferments of the milk destroyed. Sterilization should be re- 
garded as an emergency measure, for hot weather, when cool- 
ing facilities are lacking. 

MILK PRODUCTS 

Butter. Butter consists almost entirely of separated milk 
fat. Churning causes the fat globules to unite into a solid 
mass. The cream is first allowed to ripen for some hours. 
This process gives the characteristic taste and odor, which is 
due to action of bacteria. When kept, butter tends to turn 
rancid, owing to the fermentation of a small quantity of casein 
present. Salt is added largely to prevent this change. But- 
ter is very palatable, and one of the most digestible forms 
of fat. 

Cheese. Cheese is made from full milk, skim milk or 
cream. It consists of the casein of the milk and more or 
less of the fat and mineral matters. The flavor is due to the 
action of enzymes in molds or bacteria. Cheese is a very 
concentrated nutritious food, and very thoroughly assimilated. 
It is not usually well borne by invalids and convalescents, 
however. 

Cream. Cream is the fatty layer which forms at the top 
of milk which is allowed to stand undisturbed. It contains 
the fat of the milk, water, some protein, carbohydrates and 
mineral matter. The percentage of fat is exceedingly vari- 
able, ranging from about 16 per cent, to 40 per cent. The 
cream which rises on milk after 24 hours is called gravity 
cream and contains about 16 per cent. fat. The richer creams 
are obtained by centrifugalizing the milk. Cream in large* 



190 ANIMAL FOODS 

quantities is less easily digested than an equal amount of 
whole milk because of the large amount of fat, but this form 
of fat is easily digested compared with other food fats, and 
hence is often ordered by physicians. 

Curds. When milk sours, owing to the formation of 
lactic acid by the action of lactic acid bacteria upon the 
sugar, or when the enzyme rennet is added to fresh milk at 
body temperature, and the clot is stirred, the curds separate 
from the whey. 

Curds consist of coagulated casein, which commonly car- 
ries with it the fat; gentle heat facilities this separation, but 
a high temperature renders the curd tough and indigestible; 
with or without the addition of cream, curds are used as 
cottage cheese. It is a very cheap, nutritious food. 

Junket. If sweet milk is allowed to stand undisturbed 
after the addition of rennet, the thickened, custard-like mass 
is called junket. This is a valuable method of using milk, 
especially for invalids, children, and those who from personal 
idiosyncrasy cannot drink milk. 

Whey. This substance may be either sweet when formed 
by junket or sour when otherwise produced. It contains 
most of the lactose, lactalbumin and ash constituents of the 
milk, but has so little nutritive value, owing to the removal of 
the milk fat and casein, that it may be regarded as a beverage. 
See page 185. 

Sour Milk. When whole milk sours, with the formation 
of " curds and whey," the entire product is known as clabber 
or bonny-clabber. It is wholesome, and nutritious, since it 
contains all the ingredients naturally present in milk. By 
some it is used as a beverage. When not so relished, it can be 
used to good advantage in cooking, adding its nutritive value 
to any dish in which it is incorporated. 

Buttermilk. True buttermilk, which is common on farms, 

is seldom found in commerce. Unless produced where sold, 

its genuineness may be a matter of question. Those who are 

familiar with the genuine article state that the delicacy of 

• its flavor, its consistency, etc., are much superior to the so- 



MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 191 

called buttermilk of commerce. The composition of the two 
articles is practically the same. When skim milk, the cream 
having been removed by the separator, is allowed to sour, it 
is said to resemble ordinary buttermilk, and the fluid which 
goes by the latter name, sold extensively throughout Greater 
New York, is said to be sour skim milk. 

Metschniclcoff Artificially Soured MilJc. The announce-* 
ment some years ago by MetschnickofE that the foregoing 
products were of very great hygienic and therapeutic value in 
disinfecting the intestines has resulted in the wholesale pro- 
duction of a substance which differs from ordinary sour 
milk in that it is prepared from a pure culture of lactic- 
acid germs. This product is doubtless destined to replace 
the older ones on account of its freedom from undesirable 
forms of bacteria. The technique for preparing it, devised 
originally by MetschnickofE himself, also places it in a higher 
class than the older preparations. The pure culture is sold 
in the solid form as Buttermilk Tablets. 

Fermented Milk. Milk which has been fermented is really 
a derivative of native milk, and in parts of Europe and Asia 
constitutes an important article of diet. The fermentation 
is either the lactic alone or lactic and alcoholic together. 

The ferments used consist chiefly of various " leavens " 
or cultures which cause lactic acid fermentation. People who 
have subsisted on this milk for centuries simply use a por- 
tion of old fermented milk to leaven fresh milk. These 
leavens vary considerably in composition, and the milk used 
may be from one of several domestic animals. Some leavens 
contain yeast germs, as that alcohol may or may not be 
present. The native preparations which have been imitated 
in this country are kumyss, kefir and matzoon. 

Kumyss was prepared originally from mares' milk. The 
leaven contains lactic acid germs and yeast. The product 
therefore contains lactic acid, alcohol, and carbonic acid 
gas, representing an acid, effervescing, mildly alcoholic bev- 
erage. The casein curd is finely broken up and partially 
digested. Kumyss has been imitated in America by adding 



193 ANIMAL FOODS 

yeast to milk and allowing fermentation to proceed twenty- 
four hours or over. 

Kefir was made originally from cows' milk with a leaven 
of kumyss. This has been sold in tablet form like the ren- 
net ferment. Kefir resembles kumyss so closely that no 
further description is necessary. 

Matzoon differs from the preceding chiefly in containing 
no alpohol. 

Modified Milk is milk containing definite proportions of 
fat, sugar, proteids, etc., put up usually according to the 
formula of a physician, who prescribes the quantity of the 
different constituents he desires. 

For sick children and in convalescence it is of great value 
to obtain a modification in which the composition is definite 
and accurate. It can then be known what mixtures will agree 
with the patient. 

Malted Milk is a pure food prepared from rich full-cream 
milk, combined with the valuable nutritive extracts of malted 
barley and wheat. This product being highly concentrated 
and partially predigested, supplies a large amount of nutrition 
with little tax upon the digestive organs. It is a valuable 
nutrient in dyspepsia or impaired digestion, for fever and 
wasting diseases, the convalescent, nursing mothers, and the 
aged. 

Peptonised Milk is milk in which the casein or curd has 
been made soluble and diffusible by means of the Peptonising 
Tubes. In these Peptonising Tubes, extractum pancreatis, 
containing the pancreatic ferment which acts especially upon 
the proteins of milk, is combined with soda bicarbonate in 
due proportion, and each tube contains sufficient peptonising 
powder to peptonise a pint of milk. Milk may be peptonised 
by various methods — by the " cold process," " immediate 
process," " warm process," etc. The method and degree of 
peptonisation suitable for any special case is soon determined 
by experience, by the agreeability of the milk and its digesti- 
bility. 

Condensed Milk. Preservation of milk by condensation 



MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 193 

constitutes a very extensive commercial industry. There are 
several processes in vogue, and the product is either sweet- 
ened or unsweetened. Ordinary unsweetened milk contains 
about 13 per cent, each of protein and fat and 16 per cent, 
of the native milk sugar, making the total solids 40 per cent. 
Cane sugar may be added to the amount of about 40 per cent, 
more, making the total solids 80 per cent. Milk may also 
be condensed by forcing filtered air through it, until its vol- 
ume is reduced to one-fourth the original amount. This 
product is sold in sterile bottles. Condensed milk is very 
generally used as a substitute for fresh milk. It is especially 
valuable in tropical regions and on ocean voyages. It is 
important that condensed milk be made from clean milk, and 
kept free from bacteria contamination. The unsweetened 
brands are especially liable to putrefaction, and should be 
cared for, when opened, like fresh milk. 

Desiccated Milk. When the process of condensation has 
been carried to complete expulsion of all fluid matter, a 
powder may be obtained which is sold as milk powder, des- 
iccated milk, etc. 

ENERGY VALTTE OF MILK 

1 cup of whole milk = 169 Calories. 

1 eup skimmed milk = 89 Calories. 

1 cup cream ( 18% ) = 440 Calories. 

1 cup cream (40%) := 864 Calories. 

PASTEURIZATION 

Methods of Preparing. Put bottle into kettle of cold 
water and slowly bring to the boiling point. BoiL ten minutes. 
After which fill immediately nearly full with milk; cork with 
absorbent cotton which has been baked in the oven until a 
delicate brown. Place bottles on a rest in a deep pan so that 
they will not touch bottom, and fill the pan with cold water to 
reach as high as the milk in bottles. Heat water gradually to 
155 to 167 degrees Fahrenheit, or until small bubbles appear 
in the milk next to the glass. Bemove to back of stove and 
keep milk at same temperature 30 to 45 minutes; then cool 



194 ANIMAL FOODS 

quickly to 45 degrees or lower. To cool rapidly put bottlea 
first into lukewarm water and then cold water until milk is 
cold, then surround with ice water. Keep in cold place and 
do not remove stoppers until ready to use. Note Pasteuriza- 
tion, page 188. 

Utensils. A convenient form of apparatus for pasteuriza- 
tion is known as the Hygeia Pasteurizer or Sterilizer. Or 
a covered tin pail answers well for the larger vessel, and an 
inverted pie pan with perforated bottom can serve as the 
false bottom. A hole may be punched in the cover of the 
pail, a cork inserted and a chemical thermometer put through 
the cork so that the bulb dips in the water, thus enabling one 
to watch the temperature closely without removing the cover, 
or an ordinary dairy thermometer may be used from time 
to time by removing the lid. 

STERILIZATION 

The utensils and methods to sterilize milk are the same as 
for pasteurizing, except that the water is heated to the boil- 
ing point (212° P.) and the time for boiling is ten or more 
minutes. Note Sterilization, page 188. 

EVAPORATED MILK 

It is sometimes of advantage, as in cases of dilated stom- 
ach or whenever the total amount of fluids must be cut down 
to a given point, to heat the milk in a pan over which is 
placed an inverted funnel. Much of the water of the milk 
passes off as vapor, while the solids remain in the pan. 

BAKED MILE 
Into a stone jar put one-half gallon of sweet milk; cover 
with writing paper and tie it on. Bake in moderate oven 
nine to ten hours. It will be the consistency of thick cream. 

MALTED MILE, 59 CALORIES 

Mix one tablespoon of Horlick's Malted Milk powder with 
a little tepid water to make a smooth paste ; add three-fourths 
cup water, hot or cold, stirring briskly and serve. 



MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 195 

Note. — May be prepared with hot milk instead of water 
and a little cream added if desired. 

PEPTONISED MILK, 338 CAIORIES 
Warm Process 

Put one-half cup (gill) of cold water and the powder con- 
tained in one of the Peptonising Tubes (Pairchild) into a 
clean quart bottle and shake thoroughly; add a pint of cold 
fresh milk and shake again; then place the bottle in a pail 
or kettle of warm water — about 115° P., or not too hot to 
immerse the whole hand in it without discomfort. Keep 
the bottle in the water bath for five or ten minutes, or longer 
if it is desired to peptonise the milk quite completely, then 
put it immediately on ice — directly in contact with the ice 
— in order to check the process of digestion and keep the milk 
from spoiling. 

The degree of peptonisation is very simply regulated in 
this process by the length of time during which the milk is 
kept in the water bath. It is seldom necessary to peptonise 
milJc until it becomes bitter. 

PAKTIAIIT PEPTONISED MILK, 338 CALORIES 

Put one-half cup (gill) of cold water and the powder con- 
tained in one of the Peptonising Tubes (Pairchild) into a 
clean saucepan, and stir well; add a pint of cold fresh milk, 
and heat, with constant stirring, to boiling point. The heat 
should be so applied that the milk will come to a boil in ten 
minutes. Let it cool to about lukewarm, then strain into a 
clean bottle or glass jar, cork tightly and keep in a cold 
place. The bottle or jar should always be well shaken before 
and after pouring out a portion. The milk may be taken 
cold or hot as the physician may direct. 

" Partially peptonised milh " if properly prepared will not 
become hitter. 

PEPTONISED KILK, 338 CAIOSIES 
Cold Process 

Put one-half cup (gill) of cold water into a clean quart 
bottle and dissolve in it by shaking thoroughly the powder 



196 ANIMAL FOODS 

contained in one of the Peptonising Tubes (Fairchild) ; add 
a pint of cold fresh milk, shake the bottle again, and im- 
mediately place it on ice — directly in contact with the ice. 

The bottle should always be well shaken before and after 
pouring out a portion. 

Peptonised milk prepared by this recipe is especially ap- 
preciated hy patients who disliJce the taste of warmed or 
boiled milk, and ordinarily it is readily digested and assimi- 
lated. 

PEPTONISED MIIK 
Immediate Process 

Put two tablespoons (1 oz.) of cold water into a goblet 
or glass; dissolve in this one-quarter of the contents of a 
Peptonising Tube (Fairchild) ; add eight tablespoonfuls 
(4 ozs.) of warm milk — not boiling; drink immediately, 
sipping slowly; 85 calories. 

To prepare half a pint of milk, use half the contents of a 

Peptonising Tube, 4 tablespoonfuls of water, a half pint of 

milk; 169 calories. 

SPECIALLY PEPTONISED MILK, 338 CALOKIES 

Por Making Milk Jelly, Milk Punch, Milk Lemonade, and for Use 
with Fruit Juices or Acids 

Peptonise a pint of milk by the " Warm Process," keep- 
ing the bottle in the water bath for one hour; pour the pep- 
tonised milk into a saucepan and heat to boiling, when it is 
ready for use if it is required hot ; or it may be put on ice, in 
a bottle or any suitable container, to be used for punches, 
lemonade, etc. 

It is necessary to peptonise the milk quite completely — 
for one hour — so that it will not curdle when mixed with 
lemon juice or acid. The bitter taste of this " specially 
peptonised milk " is not evident in the Jellies, punches, etc., 
and these foods are very agreeable and exceedingly assimil- 
able. 

EFEERVESCENT PEPTONISED MILK 

Into a glass put some finely cracked ice and fill it half- 
full of vichy, Apollinaris or siphon water, add immediately 



MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 197 

peptonised milk prepared by any of the prescribed metliods 
and drink while effervescing. Brandy or other spirits may be 
added if desired. 

THICKENED MILK 
See Flour Gruel. Page 239. 

RICE MILK, 458 CALORIES 

1 ounce rice. 1 saltspoon salt. 

1 pint scalded milk. 1 teaspoon sugar. 

Soak rice twelve hours, strain and add the scalded milk, 
salt and sugar. Stir well -and cook slowly one hour. Eub 
through a fine sieve (thin with more hot milk if desired). 
Taste and add more seasoning if necessary. Sago or tapioca 
may be used in the same way. 

RUM AND MILK, 186 CALORIES 

% cup milk. 1% teaspoon sugar. 

% tablespoon rum or brandy. 

Use fresh or pasteurized milk. Put ingredients into a 
lemonade shaker or fruit jar (using rubber band and cover) ; 
cover well and shake until frothy. Serve in glass three- 
fourths filled. 

SHERRY OR BRANDY AND MILK, 173 CALORIES 

% cup fresh milk. % teaspoon sugar. 

% tablespoon brandy or Nutmeg. 

Va wineglass of sherry. 

Blend as for " Rum and Milk." Fill glass three-fourths 
full and add a grating of nutmeg on top. 

CINNAMON AND MILK, 132 CALORIES i 
% cup new milk. Sugar. 

Stick cinnamon. Va teaspoon brandy. 

Boil milk, with sufficient cinnamon to flavor pleasantly, 
and sweeten. This may be taken cold with the brandy. 
Very good in cases of diarrhoea. Children may take it warm 
without brandy. 

1 Without sugar. 



198 ANIMAL FOODS 

WHEY 

6l^ ounces whey = 50 Calories. 
1 cup fresh milk. 1 teaspoon cold water. 

14 Hansen's Junket Tablet. 

Heat the milk until lukewarm; add the tablet, dissolved 
in the cold water. Allow it to Jelly in a warm place. Then 
break up the curd and strain through two thicknesses of 
cheese-cloth, being careful to remove all the casein. Serve 
cold, with or without sweetening, and flavor as desired. 

IIQTTID PEPTONOIDS AND WHEY 

Place one tablespoonful of finely cracked ice in a small tea- 
cup. Pour over it one tablespoonful of Liquid Peptonoids; 
stir, fill the cup with whey and drink slowly. 

ACID PHOSPHATE WHEY 

See " Acid Beverages " for recipe. Page 113. 

LEMON WHEY 

See " Acid Beverages" for recipe. Page 113. 

WINE WHEY 

See " Acid Beverages " for recipe. Page 113. 

PANOPEPTON WITH WHEY 

Put into a small teacup one or two teaspoonfuls of clean 
crushed ice; add one tablespoonful of Panopepton, stir, then 
fill the cup with whey. Drink slowly. This is very refresh- 
ing and nourishing — an admirable liquid food for fever 
patients and convalescents. 

KTTMYSS, 328 CALORIES 
J cake Fleischmann's yeast. 1 tablespoon water. 

1% tablespoons sugar. 1 quart milk. 

Make a thin syrup of the sugar and water and cook one 
minute. Soften the yeast in two tablespoons of lukewarm 
milk. Heat the milk until lukewarm, add other ingredients 
and shake. Put in sterile patent beer bottles, place in up- 
right position for twelve hours, at 70 degrees Fahrenheit 
^(or comfortably warm room) ; then turn on side at heat 



MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 199 

50 degrees Fahrenheit (lower part of ice-box). Eeady for 
use after the first twenty-four hours; often kept several days, 
but the longer it is kept the less palatable it is. Do not 
open a bottle of kumyss without a champagne tap, or the 
cork may be punctured with a stout needle to let the gas 
escape. It should look like thick, foamy cream. 

Kumyss is especially suited for many forms of indigestion, 
nausea, fever and gastric trouble, pulmonary consumption and 
other wasting disease. 

Dr. Brush's prepared kumyss is recommended on account 
of its superiority over the home-made preparations, as the 
milk supply is controlled, and the method of preparing is 
carried out upon scientific bases. It is also more convenient, 
as it is ready for immediate use. 

MATZOON OR ZOOLAK (GERMAN HOSPITAL, NEW YORK CITY) 
1 pint ::= 338 Calories. 

Take forty-five pints of milk, boil thoroughly. Cream 
two or three times; that is, until all the cream is removed. 
"When the milk is still quite warm add two (3) bottles of 
prepared bottled Zoolak. Mix thoroughly. Bottle quickly in 
pint bottles, not entirely full. Cork tightly immediately, and 
put in a warm place till the liquid shows creamy through the 
bottles. Then place and keep in a cold place. 

N. B. — If chilled before it is thick it remains thin and 
the flavor is spoiled. If not kept very cold after it is made 
the fermentation is carried too far. 

JUNKET, 169 CALORIES 
1 cup fresh milk. 1 teaspoon cold water. 

14 Hansen's Junket Tablet. 

Heat the milk until lukewarm; add the tablet dissolved 
in the cold water ; allow it to jelly in a warm place ; chill in 
ice-box; serve plain or in the various ways as directed in 
chapter " Nutritious Desserts." 

ARTIFICIAL OR HOMEMADE BUTTERMILK 
1 cup (whole milk buttermilk) =169 Calories. 
Pasteurize fresh, sweet milk, which may be new, or partly 



300 ANIMAL FOODS 

skimmed, or entirely fat-free, as desired, by heating it to 
between 160 and 175 degrees F, and holding at such tem- 
perature for at least 30 minutes, cool to 100 degrees. 

Dissolve one Junket Brand Buttermilk Tablet in a table- 
spoon of cold milk or water and add a quart or less of the 
pasteurized milk. Leave in warm room until thick, 34 to 
36 hours. 

When milk has thickened, place in refrigerator. When 
cold, " Churn " by shaking the bottle vigorously for a minute 
or two. Or the milk may be prepared in a fruit jar, a bowl 
or a pitcher and beaten with an egg beater until smooth and 
creamy. 

If the acid flavor is too mild, let stand cold another day. 

If desired, the milk may be diluted with one-fourth water. 
A pinch of salt may be added. 

Junket Buttermilk may be kept on ice or in refrigerator 
for a week or longer. 

SWEETBREADS 

Among epicures sweetbreads are considered a dainty and 
are certainly a most acceptable food for the sick, as they are 
easily digested, but they must not be used to excess on account 
of the large amount of uric acid which they produce. 

Definition. Sweetbreads are the pancreas and thymus 
glands of the calf, the word being used for either one or 
both organs. The thymus glands are removed and used for 
food while the animal lives on milk. The pancreas of the 
calf is sometimes called stomach sweetbread, and the thymus 
gland the neck or throat sweetbread. The latter is con- 
sidered somewhat more easily digested than the former. 

Digestibility. It is an error to state that sweetbreads are 
more digestible because they contain digestive ferments in 
life, for these are destroyed by cooking. The tenderness of 
these bodies is due doubtless to the delicate character of the 
connective tissue, and to the soft character of the gland tis- 
sue itself, which is rich in nucleo-protein. The presence of 



SWEETBREADS 201 

this miclein is objectionable for gouty and other patients 
with uric acid disorders, but this is no contraindication for 
an occasional use of them by invalids. 

ENERGY VALUE OF SWEETBREADS 

100 grams (3% oz.) sweetbreads = 176 Calories. 

1 pair sweetbreads, medium size (8 oz.) . . =399 Calories. 
1 pair sweetbreads, medium size (8 oz. ), when cooked, freed from 
membrane, pipe, etc., and cut into cubes, measures three-fourths 
cup. 

TO PREPARE SWEETBREADS 
(To Parboil.) 

Eemove from paper as soon as received from market, plunge 
into cold water and allow to stand one hour. Drain. Place 
immediately in boiling water salted water to cover, allowing 
one-half tablespoon each of salt and vinegar to a pair of 
sweetbreads. Simmer twenty minutes; again drain and 
plunge into cold water that they may keep white and firm. 
Free from membrane fat and veins, and serve as desired. 

Sweetbreads are always prepared in this way for subse- 
quent cooking and are spoken of as parboiled. 

BROILED SWEETBREADS 

Parboil and cut in halves cross-wise. Sprinkle with salt 
and pepper, place on a greased fine wire broiler, and broil 
five minutes over a clear fire. As soon as sweetbread is 
heated brush both sides with a little melted butter. Serve 
with creamed butter to which has been added a little lemon 
juice or simply spread with soft butter. 

CREAMED SWEETBREADS NO. I, 288 CALORIES 
(Individual Rule.) 
% tablespoon butter. l^ cup milk. 

% tablespoon flour. % cup sweetbreads. 

Melt the butter, add flour and pour on gradually the scald- 
ing milk. Cook thoroughly and season. Add the parboiled 
sweetbreads cut in small pieces, reheat and serve on toast and 
garnish with parsley. 



202 ANIMAL POODS 

Note. — For Scalloped Sweetbreads put creamed sweetbreads 
in small baking dish ; cover with cracker crumbs and dot with 
bits of butter; bake until crumbs are a golden brown. 

CREAMED SWEETBREADS NO. II, 968 CALORIES 

(Three Servings.) 

1 cup thin cream or rich milk. % teaspoon salt. 

2 teaspoons butter. % cup sweetbreads. 
2 tablespoons flour. 

Parboil sweetbreads and cut into one-half inch cubes. 
Blend flour with a little cold milk to make a smooth mixture ; 
scald cream in double boiler, add the flour mixture and cook 
thoroughly. Just before serving add the prepared sweet- 
breads, salt and butter. Serve hot on toasted rounds, and 
garnish with parsley, or use as a filling for Swedish tim- 
bales. 

Kote. — May use equal proportions of cold cooked chicken 
and sweetbreads, reheat and serve in the cream sauce. 

FRICASSEED SWEETBREADS, 240 CALORIES i 

(Three Servings.) 
Parboil and cut sweetbread into one-half inch pieces. 
Make a sauce using: 

2 teaspoons butter. % cup hot strong chicken broth. 

1 teaspoon flour. 14 cup cream. 

% teaspoon lemon juice. Salt and pepper. 

Melt the butter, add the flour, allow it to simmer until 
a golden brown, then add the hot broth gradually, stirring 
constantly, lastly the cream. Season with salt, pepper and 
lemon juice. A speck of curry powder may be added if 
desired. 

Put the cut sweetbread into the sauce, simmer five minutes 
and serve on sippets or squares of dry toast; garnish with 
parsley. 

SWEETBREADS WITH PEAS 
1 cup of canned peas = 100 Calories. 

Parboil and broil sweetbreads, arrange in center of plat- 
ter, and serve the peas (cooked and seasoned) around them. 

^ Calculated without the sweethreads. 



GELATIN 303 

Or the peas may be piled in center of platter and the broiled 
sweetbreads arranged as a border. A cream sauce may be 
poured over all; for it, use the recipe in Creamed Sweet- 
breads No. I or II. 

GELATIN 

Source. Gelatin is a nitrogenous food classed with pro- 
teins, under the division called gelatinoids or albuminoids, and 
derived from " collagen," the chief constituent of connective 
tissue with its various modifications, as tendons, "chondri- 
gen " of cartilage, or the " ossein " of bone. " By proper 
treatment, any form of connective tissue can be made to yield 
gelatin. Hide clippings yield glue, a crude form of gelatin, 
and much commercial gelatin is simply a purified glue, derived 
from such a source. Isinglass, obtained from the swimming 
bladder of the sturgeon and other fish, is the purest form of 
gelatin ; the gelatin obtained from calves' feet is also of high 
quality." ^ 

General Principles in Coohing. Gelatin is insoluble in 
cold water, but when allowed to stand in it will swell from 
absorption of water. " Gelatin is very soluble in boiling 
water, and on cooling sets into a jelly. This Jellying will 
occur in a solution containing as little as 1 per cent, of 
gelatin." ^ Gelatin is decomposed by boiling and conse- 
quently if allowed to boil will not solidify on cooling. 

Digestibility. Gelatin is very easily digested in the stom- 
ach, and readily absorbed from the small intestines. 

Nutritive Value. Although gelatin is a protein food, it 
cannot alone support life. Proteins are made up of groups 
of amino acids, most of which it seems necessary to have 
represented in the diet, to secure complete repair of the waste 
of nitrogenous tissue. In gelatin two important acids are 
lacking ; hence not more than two-thirds of the day's nitrogen 
requirement should be given in the form of gelatin. Because 

1 state of Connecticut. Report of The Connecticut Agricultural Experi- 
ment Station. Pood and Drug Products, 1909. Being Part II of the 
Biennial Report of 1909-1910. 



204 ANIMAL FOODS 

it can to this extent take the place of other proteins, gelatin 
has often been called a "protein-sparer," rather than a true 
protein. In the ordinary intake of animal food, not more 
than one-eighth of the total nitrogen is in the form of gelatin. 
It is usually not convenient to take more than 35 to 30 
grams (about 1 ounce) in a day. Six ounces of calf's foot 
jelly (which would be a large helping) contain less than half 
an ounce of gelatin. Jellying will occur in a solution con- 
taining as little as 1 per cent, of gelatin. Gelatin has the 
advantage (along with other proteins) of fixing a good deal 
of acid in the process of stomach digestion and is thus of 
service in cases of hyperacidity of the stomach, when given 
in other forms than acid Jellies. It seems also to promote 
the secretion of gastric juice. It is useful in febrile states 
as it really belongs with liquid foods, melting as it does at 
body temperature. 

In convalescence, acid jellies (orange, lemon, etc.,) are of 
service as a pleasant supplement to the ordinary diet, but the 
actual nutriment which they supply is small. 

Extra nutriment can be added to gelatin by combining it 
with eggs and milk, as in Snow Pudding, Charlottes of 
various kinds, Spanish Cream, etc., all of which are attrac- 
tive forms of invalid diet. 

Meat Jellies are condensed form of broth, and are prepared 
by taking any meat containing a large proportion of connec- 
tive tissues and cooking long and slowly. (Note broths, page 
217 for directions and recipes.) Home-made jellies, prop- 
erly prepared, have a pleasing flavor and are an agreeable 
addition to diet of an invalid, although their nutritive value 
is low. 

WINE JELLY NO. I, 165 CALORIES 
(Individual Rule.) 
1 teaspoon granulated gelatin. 2 tablespoons wine. 

1 tablespoon cold water. 1 tablespoon orange juice. 
Vi cup boiling water. 1 teaspoon lemon juice. 

2 tablespoons sugar. 



GELATIN 205 

Soak gelatin in the cold water 5 minutes; add the boiling 
water and dissolve. Add sugar, wine, orange and lemon 
juice. When sugar is dissolved, strain through a cheese- 
cloth into cold, wet molds; or chill in shallow soup plate 
and when firm cut into one-half inch cubes and serve in 
sherbert or champagne glasses, or half orange shell with a 
little whipped cream on top. 

WINE JELLY NO. II, 1530 CALORIES 

(Six Servings.) 
% box shredded gelatin or 2 cups boiling water. 

2 tablespoons granulated gelatin. 1 cup wine. 
% cup cold water. Speck salt. 

1% cups sugar. 

Cover gelatin with the cold water and let it stand about 
one-half hour. Add the boiling water, sugar and salt. Stir 
till gelatin is dissolved and add the wine. Strain through 
cloth and strainer into cold, wet molds and set in cold place 
to harden. Serve plain or with whipped cream. 

PEPTONOIDS WINE JELLY, 192 CALORIES 

14 box gelatin. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

4 tablespoons cold water. 1 tablespoon sherry wine. 

8 tablespoons boiling water. 1 tablespoon Liquid Peptonoids. 

Soak gelatin in the cold water 5 minutes; add the boiling 
water, sugar, wine and Liquid Peptonoids. When sugar is 
dissolved, strain and pour into cold, wet molds. Put on ice 
to harden. 

ORANGE JELLY NO. I, 1020 CALORIES 

(Six Servings.) 
% box shredded gelatin or 1 cup sugar. 

2 tablespoons granulated gelatin. 1 cup orange juice. 
Y2 cup cold water. Juice 1 lemon. 

2 cups boiling water. 

Soak the gelatin in the cold water one-half hour; add the 
boiling water and dissolve. Add sugar and fruit Juice, 
strain through a cloth and strainer into cold, wet molds 



206 ANIMAL FOODS 

and set away to harden. Serve plain or with whipped 
cream. 

OEANGE JELLY NO. II, 152 CALORIES 
(Individual Rule.) 
1 teaspoon granulated gelatin. 3 tablespoons orange juice. 
1 tablespoon cold water. 2 teaspoons lemon juice. 

1 tablespoon boiling water. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

Make same as preceding. Soaking gelatin five minutes. 

Cut orange in half, crosswise, remove pulp with spoon 
and strain through cheese-cloth. Fill halves with jelly; when 
it is hardened cut with sharp knife into thirds (which leaves 
the rim filled with jelly). Serve three pieces on small plate 
with whipped cream in center. 

ORAN&E BASKET^ 

"Wash oranges. Eemove two sections from the upper half 
of an orange, leaving a band of peel for a handle. Dig out 
the pulp and scrape clean. Fill with lemon or orange jelly, 
cut into cubes. An attractive form to serve to children. 

Note. — If these shells are wrapped in a damp cloth they 
will retain their shape for hours. 

LEMON JELLY, 142 CALORIES 
(Individual Rule.) 
1 teaspoon granulated gelatin. 2 tablespoons lemon juice. 
1 tablespoon cold water. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

y^ cup boiling water. 

Soak gelatin in the cold water 5 minutes; add the boiling 
water, sugar and fruit juice. When the sugar is dissolved, 
pour into cold, wet molds and put on ice to harden. 

GRAPE JELLY, 588 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
1 tablespoon granulated gelatin. V4 cup sugar. 
Vi cup cold water. Juice 1 lemon. 

1 cup boiling water. % cup Welch's grape juice. 

Soak gelatin in the cold water; add boiling water and 
dissolve. Add sugar, lemon juice and grape juice; strain, 
pour into cold, wet molds and cool. 



GELATIN 207 

This recipe may be served in another and very inviting 
form; when the gelatin is firm, force it through a potato 
ricer. Keep on ice until ready to serve. 

PEACH JELLY, 130 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
1 teaspoon granulated gelatin. 1 teaspoon lemon juice. 
1 teaspoon cold water. 1 tablespoon sherry wine. 

1 tablespoon boiling water. 1% tablespoons sugar. 

3 tablespoons peach juice. 

Soak gelatin in the cold water 5 minutes; add boiling 
water and dissolve. Add fruit juice, wine and sugar, strain 
and pour into a cold, wet mold. 

COFFEE JELLY, 529 CALORIES 
(Individual Rule.) 
1 teaspoon granulated gelatin. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

1 tablespoon cold water. 7 tablespoons cream. 

2 tablespoons strong hot coffee. 

Soak gelatin in the cold water 5 minutes. Add the hot 
coffee and dissolve; add sugar and strain. Set bowl into 
chopped ice, or ice water to cool, stirring occasionally until 
it thickens. Then add the cream, and pour into cold, wet 
molds to chill. 

PEPTONOIDS COFFEE JELLY, 255 CALORIES i 

14 box granulated gelatin. Sugar to taste. 

4 tablespoons cold water. 8 tablespoons Liquid Peptonoids. 
8 tablespoons boiling coffee. 

Soak gelatin in the cold water 5 minutes; add the boiling 
coffee, sugar and Liquid Peptonoids. When sugar is dis- 
solved, strain and pour into cold, wet molds. Put on ice 
to harden. 

CREAM JELLY, 330 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
1 teaspoon granulated gelatin. 1 tablespoon sugar. 
1 tablespoon cold water. Speck salt. 

3 tablespoons scalded milk. Vanilla to taste. 

4 tablespoons thick cream. 

1 Without sugar. 



208 ANIMAL FOODS 

Soak gelatin in the cold water 5 minutes; add the 
scalded milk and dissolve. Add the sugar, salt, cream and 
vanilla. Stir occasionally until the mixture thickens; pour 
into cold, wet after-dinner coffee cups, or egg cups, and chill. 
Serve with Soft Custard, or cream and sugar. 

PEPTONISEI) MILK JELLY, 517 CALOEIES i 
(Three Servings.) 
1 pint " specially peptonised Einds and juice of one fresh 

milk," hot. lemon and orange. 

% box gelatin. 2 or 3 tablespoons best St. Croix 

Sugar to taste. rum, or brandy, etc. 

Soak the gelatin in a cup of cold water, pour the hot milk 
over it and add the sugar; stir until dissolved, then throw 
in the lemon and orange rinds. 

Squeeze the juice of the lemon and orange into a glass 
and strain ; stir in the rum or brandy, etc., then mix with the 
milk and gelatin; strain. 

When the mixture has cooled to a syrup so as to be almost 
ready to set, pour into molds or glasses wet in cold water 
and put on ice or in cold water or in a cold place to harden; 
if it is too warm when poured into the molds, it is apt 
to separate in setting. 

PANOPEPTON JELLY, 342 CAIOBIES 

(Three Servings.) 
1 ounce fresh celery (cut 2 dashes pepper. 

in small pieces ) . 6 tablespoons Panopepton. 

% small box best gelatin. 2 cups cold water. 

14 teaspoon salt. 

Soak the gelatin in one-half cupful of cold water for one 
hour; put the water and celery in a double boiler on the 
fire and simmer one-half hour; add the salt, pepper, and 
soaked gelatin and stir until it is dissolved; remove from 
fire, add Panopepton; stir, and strain through linen into a 
jelly-jar, and set near ice. Serve in small quantities. 

* Without sugar. 



GELATIN 309 

PANOPEPTON JELLY WITH ORANGE, 379 CALORIES 

(Three Servings.) 
14 small box best gelatin. Juice and peel of 1 orange. 

1 tablespoon sugar. 1 pint cold water. 

6 tablespoons Panopepton. 

Put the gelatin, orange peel (cut in small pieces), orange 
juice, and cold water in a dish and let it stand for one hour, 
then put in a double boiler on the fire, add the sugar and stir 
until it is dissolved ; now strain through linen, add the Pano- 
pepton and stir well. Pour into a jelly-jar and set near ice. 
Serve in small quantities. 

MEAT JELLIES 

See " Meat Jellies " for recipe. Page 221. 

STARCHY JELLIES 

See " Starchy Jellies " for recipe. Page 244. 

SNOW PUDDING, 934 CALORIES 

(Six Servings.) 
14 box shredded gelatin or 1 cup sugar. 

1 tablespoon granulated gelatin. 14 cup lemon juice. 
14 cup cold water. Whites 3 eggs. 

1 cup boiling water. 1 teaspoon lemon extract. 

Soften gelatin in cold water, add boiling water and dis- 
solve. Add sugar, fruit juice and extract, and stir until 
sugar is dissolved. Set bowl into chopped ice, or ice water, 
to cool, stirring occasionally; when jelly is quite thick fold 
in the stiffly-beaten whites of eggs, and put into cold, wet 
molds. Put on ice to harden. When firm, remove from 
molds and serve with Soft Custard No. 1. 

SNOW PUDDING, 222 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

2 teaspoons granulated gelatin. 1% tablespoons lemon juice. 

3 tablespoons cold water. 3 tablespoons sugar. 
1/3 cup boiling water. White 1 egg. 

Make same as preceding. 



210 ANIMAL FOODS 

SFAmSH CREAM, 912 CALORIES 
(Three Servings.) 
14 box shredded gelatin or Yolks 3 eggs. 

1 tablespoon granulated gelatin. 6 tablespoons sugar. 
14 cup cold water. y^ teaspoon salt. 

% eup boiling water. Whites 3 eggs. 

2 cups milk. 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

Soften the gelatin in the cold water, add the boiling water 
and dissolve. Heat the milk in a double-boiler. Beat the 
yolk of eggs, add sugar and salt, and pour the hot milk 
gradually onto the mixture. Eeturn to double-boiler and 
cook until it thickens, stirring constantly. Add the strained 
gelatin and the flavoring, and fold in carefully the well- 
beaten whites. Pour into cold, wet molds to harden. Serve 
with Soft Custard ISTo. 1, or with Whipped Cream. 

SPANISH CREAM, 303 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
1 teaspoon granulated gelatin. 2 tablespoons sugar. 
1 tablespoon cold water. Speck salt. 

3 tablespoons boiling water. White 1 egg. 

% cup milk. % teaspoon vanilla. 

Yolk 1 egg. 

Make same as preceding, and serve with Orange Sauce. 

ORANGE SAUCE, 136 CALORIES 

(Three Servings.) 
Beat white of one egg very light, add two tablespoons sugar 
gradually, beating constantly, then add one and one-half 
tablespoon orange juice and one teaspoon lemon Juice. 

BAVARIAN CREAM, 205 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
1 teaspoon gelatin. % tablespoon sugar. 

1 tablespoon cold water. 14 teaspoon vanilla. 

% cup milk. Yi cup whipped cream. 

Yolk 1 egg. 

Soak gelatin in cold water 5 minutes. Heat the milk and 
pour into the beaten yolk of egg and add this mixture to gela- 



GELATIN 211 

tin ; stir until gelatin is dissolved and flavor. Set in ice water 
to cool, beating almost constantly. When it begins to stiffen, 
fold in the whipped cream. Pour into molds. Serve with 
whipped cream. 

Note. — Chocolate may be added by omitting flavoring and 
add chocolate to hot milk and dissolve before adding to the 
yolk. 

GRAPE riTIFF, 957 CALORIES 

(Six Servings.) 
% box shredded gelatin or 1 cup Welch's grape juice. 

1 tablespoon granulated gelatin. Juice 1 lemon. 
Yi cup cold water. Whites 3 eggs. 
% cup sugar. 

Soften the gelatin in cold water and dissolve by standing 
the dish in hot water. Dissolve the sugar in the fruit juice, 
and strain the gelatin into it. Set in ice and water, and 
stir occasionally until the mixture begins to thicken, then 
add gradually the well-beaten whites of eggs, and beat until 
the whole is very light and stiff enough to hold its shape. 
Pile lightly in glass serving-dish, or mold and serve with 
"V\Tiipped Cream or Soft Custard. 

ORANGE CHARLOTTE, 350 CALORIES 

(Individual Kule.) 

2 teaspoons gelatin. 3 tablespoons orange juice. 
1 tablespoon cold water. 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 
% cup boiling water. Whites 2 eggs. 

Yz cup sugar. 

Blend as for Orange Gelatin and set the bowl into chopped 
ice or ice-water to cool; stir occasionally. When Jelly is 
quite thick, fold in the stiffly-beaten whites of eggs. Mix 
well and pour into cold, wet molds. Put on ice to harden. 
When firm, remove by dipping mold quickly in warm water; 
loosen with knife, allowing air to enter. Serve with Soft 
Custard No. 1. 

Note. — Line molds with lady fingers or slices of sponge 
cake and pour in the charlotte. 



313 ANIMAL FOODS 

STBAWBESRY MOUSSE, 2284 CALORIES 

(Six Servings.) 
14 box shredded gelatin or 1 pint thick cream. 

1 tablespoon granulated gelatin. % cup powdered sugar. 
14 cup cold water. 1 cup strawberry juice. 

% cup boiling water. 

Soften the gelatin in the cold water ; add the boiling water 
and dissolve. Whip the cream until stiff, and add the pow- 
dered sugar. To the gelatin add the strawberry Juice, fold 
the cream in carefully, turn into a wet mold and pack in 
salt and ice for two hours. When ready to serve, turn out of 
mold onto a large glass dish and garnish with fresh straw- 
berries and whipped cream. 

THE MADE-IN-A-MINTJTE DESSERT, 395 CALORIES 

Dissolve one package of Jell-0, any flavor, in a pint of 
boiling water. Pour into a bowl or mold and put in a 
cold place to harden. When set turn out on a plate and 
serve. 

JELL-0 WITH FRUIT, 395 CALORIES 1 

Dissolve a package of Jell-0, any flavor, in a pint of boil- 
ing water. Pour into a bowl or mold. Just as Jell-0 is 
beginning to set, arrange in it, with the aid of a fork, sliced 
oranges or bananas, or cherries and currants, or peaches and 
strawberries, or any other fruit that may be preferred for the 
purpose. Set away to harden. Serve plain or with whipped 
cream. 

BEEF PREPARATIONS 
BEEF JUICE — BEEF TEA — RAW BEEF 
BEEF JUICE 
Composition. The juice of meat contains considerable pro- 
tein, in addition to salts and extractives. 

General Principles in CooTcing. From raw meat we can- 
not obtain as much juice as is easily taken from the same 
amount of meat when previously heated. 

^ Calculated witliout fruit. 



BEEF PREPARATIONS 213 

The reason for this is that the envelope enclosing the 
muscular tissue is a tough substance, which swells and dis- 
solves when heated, yielding gelatin, and the liquid portion 
of the meat is easily expressed. If cooked too long the pro- 
tein largely coagulates and the meat loses most of its moisture 
and becomes tough. 

A steak thoroughly heated through swells, and when cut 
the liquid portion flows out readily. One pound of meat 
yields about four ounces of Juice. 

Care in Serving. In administering beef juice great care 
should be taken in reheating not to heat it above 136 degrees 
Fahrenheit, at which temperature albumin coagulates in 
flakes. 

Substitutes for Beef Juice. A solution of white of egg 
flavored with meat extract makes a cheap and eflBcient sub- 
stitute for beef juice. 

Prepared extracts of good make may be used to advantage 
with beef juice to add flavor and make it more appetizing. 

Absorption. Beef juice is absorbed in the rectum to nearly 
the same extent as complete peptones and is an excellent 
article of diet where solid foods cannot be given. 

Comparative Food Value of Beef Juice and Beef Tea. 
Beef juice, although fourteen times as rich in protein as 
beef tea, is raw in flavor, and is rejected by many palates. 
In such a case, add a small quantity of beef tea or prepared 
beef extract for flavor. 

Thus by the union of two bodies, one rich in protein and 
the other rich in flavor, we have a superior food. Prepare 
a small quantity at a time, as it does not keep well. 

BEEF TEA 

Composition. Meat treated with hot water contains only 
a small percentage of solids and almost no protein except 
extractive matter and soluble mineral matter. The clear 
liquid which remains when the coagulated albumin is strained 
out of beef tea contains only extractive or flavoring sub- 
stances with the soluble mineral matter of the meat. There- 



214 ANIMAL POODS 

fore it should not be strained, and if properly prepared the 
albumin will not be coagulated to so great an extent. 

Even in strong beef tea which is carefully made the amount 
of proteids present has been found to be less than 2 per cent. 

Nutritive Value. Beef tea is valuable in the sick room not 
as a food, but as a ilavoring; the liquid with the heat of the 
water acts as a stimulant. 

Beef Extracts are prepared in both liquid and solid form. 
They have but slight nutritive value, containing but 4 to 5 
per cent, of protein, but are valuable for their ilavoring prop- 
erties. They are used to advantage in combination with beef 
juice, adding flavoring and making it more palatable and 
appetizing. 

RAW BEEF 

Uncooked Meat. Eaw meat is not quite as easily digested 
as cooked meat, and owing to color and flavor is not appetiz- 
ing, and could not be taken continuously. However, when 
chopped fine, or scraped free from connective tissue, it is 
very readily digested and can be served disguised or very 
slightly cooked in many dainty ways. 

Comparative Food Value of Raw Beef and Beef Tea. It 
can readily be seen that raw meat served chopped fine or 
scraped contains all the nutriment of the meat, whereas beef 
tea as seen from the manner of preparation, contains only the 
extractives and soluble mineral matter of meat. 

BEEF JTJIGE 
100 grains (3% oz.) ^25 Calories. 
Select a piece of meat from the rump or top of the round. 
Remove all fat and broil or warm slightly one or two min- 
utes, to set free the juices; lay on plate and cut meat in 
various directions that more juice may be extracted; then 
squeeze out the juice by means of a press, lemon squeezer or 
potato ricer into a slightly warmed cup. Salt if necessary, 
and serve at once. Prepare only enough to serve, as it does 
not keep well. Serve in dainty china cup to disguise color. 
One pound of meat yields four ounces of juice. 



BEEF PREPARATIONS 215 

BEEF JUICE (FOR INFANTS), 20 CALORIES 

This food is very useful in forms of diarrhoea and dysen- 
tery. A half pound of chopped lean meat is made into an 
oval, flat mass, placed on a broiler and slightly browned. 
The juice is then expressed with a small meat press, mixed 
with equal parts of barley water and salted to suit the taste. — 
Koplik. 

BEEF ESSENCE 
100 grams (31/2 oz.) =23 Calories. 

Put one-half pound round steak (freed from fat, etc.) 
through a meat chopper; put into small glass fruit jar with 
one tablespoon cold water. Place jar in a kettle of cold 
water, heat gradually and keep at temperature 150 degrees 
Fahrenheit (which is 62 degrees below the boiling point of 
water) for two hours. Strain and press the meat to obtain 
all the juice. Season with salt. Serve in slightly heated 
dainty china cup to disguise color. 

Note. — A small piece of raw beef, broiled slightly, then 
cut up and added to above, gives a better flavor. 

Liquid thus obtained should be red with albuminous juice 
in solution and not coagulated; it is nutritious, and may be 
kept in refrigerator twelve hours. Serve in small quantity 
slightly heated; or it may be made into beef tea by diluting 
with boiling water. Beef essence given ice cold is often 
grateful to a fever patient. 

LIQUID PEPTONOIDS, 28 CALORIES 

Add one tablespoonful of Liquid Peptonoids to one-half 
cup of boiling water; add pinch of salt. Sip slowly. This 
will be found particularly grateful in painful affections of 
the throat. 

Note. — To serve cold, pour one tablespoonful Liquid Pep- 
tonoids over a small glass of finely cracked ice. Allow it to 
chill thoroughly and sip slowly. 

BEEF TEA 
1/^ pound steak. Salt. 

1 cup cold water. 



216 ANIMAL FOODS 

Wipe steak, remove all fat and cut in small pieces. Put 
in glass fruit Jar, add the cold water and let it stand fifteen 
minutes to draw out the juice. Cover jar, using rubber band 
and cover, place on trivet in a kettle and surround with cold 
water. Allow water to heat slowly to 150° F. (no higher), 
and keep at this temperature two hours. Strain and season 
with salt. Eemove fat with soft paper or bread. Eeheat 
over hot water to 130° F. and serve in heated cups. 

Note. — If possible cool beef tea before serving that fat may 
be removed more thoroughly. 

BEEF TEA FROZEN 
Beef tea may be frozen to the consistency of a water ice. 
Very grateful to a fever patient. 

BEEF TEA WITH HYDEOCHIORIC ACID 

100 grams (3% oz.) =25 Calories.i 
Select one-half pound of good beef ; remove everything that 
is not clear meat. Chop it fine. Put in pint fruit jar and 
add one cup cold water and five drops dilute hydrochloric acid. 
Stir and set in refrigerator or any cold place for two hours 
to digest. Then strain, season with salt and serve in some 
dainty china cup on account of color. If one should object 
to color, heat the tea in a double boiler just till color changes. 
Do not strain. Beef tea made in this way is recommended 
by physicians for feeble children and patients much weakened 
by sickness. 

ICED PANOPEPTON, 30 CALORIES 

To a small glass half-full of clean crushed ice add one 
tablespoonful of Panopepton ; let it stand a moment and then 
sip slowly. 

PANOPEPTON — HOT, 36 CALORIES 

To a small teacup two-thirds full of boiling water, add one 
tablespoonful of Panopepton, and one teaspoonful of fresh 
lemon juice — a little sugar, if desired — stir. Drink im- 

1 Calculated as beef juice. 



BROTE AND MEAT JELLIES 217 

mediately, sipping slowly. This gives a pleasant sense of 
warmth when one is chilly, and is excellent in cases where 
light nourishment is required before retiring. 

SCRAPED BEEF 
100 grams = 142 Calories. 
Wipe a small piece of steak, cut from top of round. Lay 
it on a meat board, and with a sharp knife scrape off the soft 
part until there is nothing left but the tough, stringy fibers. 
Make it into little flat, round cakes half an inch thick and 
broil them two minutes. Season with salt and pepper if 
allowed. Serve on rounds of buttered toast. Do not add 
salt before cooking, as it toughens the meat. 

HAW BEEF SANDWICHES 

1 ounce scraped beef ^40 Calories. 

1 ounce bread ( 1 slice) =73 Calories. 

Prepare meat as for scraped beef, season and spread on 

bread cut very thin. Put slices on top, sandwich-fashion, 

and cut in fancy shapes.. Serve in this manner or toast 
daintily. 

BROTH AND MEAT JELLIES 

Broth is a liquid containing the juices of soluble parts of 
meat and bone, which have been extracted by long, slow cook- 
ing. 

This liquid is more or less solid when cold, according to the 
gelatinous nature of the ingredients. It varies greatly in 
quantity, according to the manner in which it is prepared 
and the material used. The cheaper, inferior parts of meat 
yield more nutriment than the expensive cuts. 

Composition. Broth contains almost no protein except ex- 
tractive matter with soluble mineral matter and gelatin. 

Objective Point and General Principles in Cooking. The 
chief object in making broth is to obtain the largest possible 
amount of nutriment . from the meat. This is best accom- 
plished by observing the following rules: 



218 ANIMAL FOODS 

Cut meat into small pieces. 

Soak in the cold water before heating. 

Use a careful selection and proportion of meat, bone and 
water. (The usual proportion is one pint of water to one 
pound of meat.) 

Season judiciously. 

Use steam-tight kettle; simmer (not boil), that the juice 
may be fully extracted. 

Make it the day before using, that the fat may be removed 
more easily. 

Long, slow cooking. 

Broth may be made from beef, mutton or chicken. Eice, 
barley. Dry Peptonoids Soluble, white or whole egg, etc., may 
be added, if allowed, to increase the quantity of nourishment. 

Comparative Value of Broth and Beef Tea. Broth difEers 
from beef tea in that it contains gelatin, besides the extrac- 
tives or flavoring substances and soluble mineral matter that 
are found in beef tea. Gelatin is obtained from meat and 
bones by long, slow cooking, and it is useful in convalescence 
and in febrile states. (Fote " Gelatin," p. 303.) 

Meat Jellies are a condensed form of broth, which forms an 
agreeable way of serving protein food to an invalid, and are 
especially valuable in febrile states. Although they do not 
entirely replace protein in the diet, they produce a consid- 
erable quantity of energy. (Note " Gelatin," p. 303, for 
nutritive value.) 

ENERGY VAIUE OF BROTH 

Very few analyses of broths are available ; hence no attempt 
has been made to state the calories under each recipe. The 
following table gives an approximate idea of their energy 
value : 

Beef broth 100 grams yield 16.5 Calories. 

Beef juice 100 grams yield 25 Calories. 

Clam bouillon 100 grams yield 2 Calories. 

Consomme 100 grams yield 12 Calories. 



BROTH 219 

Food that may be added for extra nutriment 
1 whole egg (average) .... 45 grams yield 60 Calories. 
White of 1 egg (average) . 25 grams yield 13 Calories. 
Yolk of 1 egg (average) . . 13 grams yield 48 Calories. 
1 tablespoon Dry Peptonoids Soluble yield 57 Calories. 

1 tablespoon rice 15 grams yield 50 Calories. 

1 tablespoon barley 27 grams yield 90 Calories. 

MUTTON BROTH 
2 pounds mutton, cut from fore- Speck pepper. 

quarters. 2 tablespoons boiled rice or bar- 

1 quart cold water. ley. 

1 teaspoon salt. 

Wipe meat, remove skin and fat and cut into small pieces. 
Put in a kettle with bones that have been well broken, add 
cold water and let it stand one-half hour to extract the juices. 
Heat gradually to boiling point, skim, and when partly cooked 
season with salt and pepper. Simmer four hours, or until 
meat is tender. Do not allow it to boil. Remove fat and 
strain through a coarse sieve. Serve hot. If broth is made 
the day before it is used, it can be cooled thoroughly and 
the fat be removed easily. In reheating use double boiler. 
Two tablespoons of cooked rice or barley may be added if 
desired. The barley should be soaked over night or several 
hours before cooking. Taste and season before serving, a tea- 
spoon of chopped parsley may be added Just before serving 
if desired. 

Note. — For weaker broth, use one quart of water to one 
pound of meat. 

BEEF BROTH 

Prepared same as Mutton Broth. 

BROTH WITH GRAINS 
1 quart hot broth. 1 tablespoon rice or barley. 

To the hot broth add the well-washed rice. Simmer slowly 
until the rice is tender, adding more broth if it evaporates. 
The broth should be strained before using. 



220 ANIMAL FOODS 

CHICKEN BROTH 

3% pounds chicken. 1 teaspoon salt. 

3 pints cold water. Speck pepper. 

2 tablespoons rice. 

Thoroughly clean a chicken (see "Poultry," p. 153), re- 
move skin and fat; separate at the Joints and wipe with a 
wet cloth. Put in kettle and add the cold water and let 
stand one-half hour. Heat very slowly and simmer three 
hours, or until meat is tender. When half-cooked skim off 
fat and add the rice and seasonings (and if desired, a small 
onion). When meat is tender, skim oflE fat and strain, taste 
and season properly and serve hot. When possible, make 
broth the day before using, that it may be thoroughly cooled 
and the fat removed easily. Eeheat in a double boiler. The 
rice may be cooked, and rubbed through strainer before add- 
ing to broth, or it may be omitted if desired. An old fowl, 
not too fat, is best for broth. 

VEAL BEOTH 

Prepared same as Chicken Broth (use cut from loin or 
knuckle of veal). 

CLAM BROTH NO. I 

Take five clams, wash and scrub well and put in saucepan 
with cold water to cover. Cook until shells open, remove 
from pan and take out clams. Chop and put them back into 
broth. Cook fifteen minutes. Strain through muslin; serve 
hot. If too strong flavor, add hot water. 

Note. — If made in large quantity, use two or three clams 
to one cup water. 

This broth may be frozen to the consistency of a frappe. 

CLAM BROTH NO. II 

% cup clam broth. Pepper. 

1 cup water or milk. % teaspoon butter. 

Blend the clam broth and water (or milk), and heat to the 
boiling point. Season with salt to taste, and if allowed, a 
little pepper and the butter. Serve hot in dainty cups. 



MEAT JELLIES 331 

EGG BROTH 

If one cannot conveniently get protein from meat, a very 
nutritious broth may be made by means of hot water into 
which an egg has been stirred. Heat three tablespoons of 
water to not above 149 degrees Fahrenheit (below the sim- 
mering point), and pour it gradually into a raw egg. The 
liquid is milky if the yolk is used; clear if only the white is 
used. It has little taste, which is an advantage with many 
patients ; or it may be flavored with beef extract. 

EGG BROTH NO. II 

1 cup hot beef broth. % teaspoon salt. 

1 egg. 

Beat the white and yolk of egg separately. To the yolk 
add gradually the hot broth, stirring continually. Add the 
salt and fold in the well-beaten white. Eeheat in double 
boiler, taking care not to coagulate the albumin. Serve very 
hot. 

Note. — The white or yolk of egg may be used separately. 

MEAT JELLIES 

CALF'S FOOT JEIIT 
100 grams = 65 Calories. 
1 calf's foot. Eind of 14 lemon (yellow part 

1 quart cold water. only). 

3 cups sherry wine (best Topaz). % cup cut or cube sugar. 
Juice of one lemon. 

Clean calf's foot and put into the cold water ; bring slowly 
to boiling point, and boil five hours ; skim if necessary, wMle 
cooking. Strain through cheese-cloth and allow it to stand 
"until firm and remove the fat. 

Mix lemon juice, wine, the whites and shells of eggs, sugar, 
and beat all together until the sugar is dissolved, then add to 
the jelly. Place on the fire in an enamel stewpan, and stir 
constantly until the mixture is very hot, but not boiling; 
strain through a jelly bag, made of cotton flannel, and allow 



233 ANIMAL FOODS 

the jelly to drip through same slowly, pour into molds or 
glass jars, and put in cold place to harden. 

Note. — Several varieties may be made by substituting the 
different flavors, brandy, rum, port wine, champagne, orange 
and lemon juice. 

CHICKEN JELLY 
3 pounds chicken. 8 peppercorna. 

1 quart cold water. Salt. 

Prepare chicken as for chicken broth and cut flesh and 
bone into small pieces. Put into saucepan with cold water 
and peppercorns and let stand one-half hour. Bring slowly 
to the boiling point, remove scum and cook five or six hours 
or until meat is very tender and water is reduced to one pint, 
while cooking keep it below the boiling point. Skim fre- 
quently while cooking, strain through double thickness of 
cheese-cloth, season to taste and let stand until firm. Ee- 
move fat, reheat and turn into glass fruit jars or individual 
molds and cool ; put in ice box until jellied. 

Additional flavor may be added if desired, a stalk of celery 
or a small piece of bay leaf may be cooked with the chicken. 

Note. — Mutton Broth Jelly may be treated in the same 
way. 

BEEF JELLY 
3 pounds solid meat from the 4 quarts cold water, 
shoulder or shin. 2 teaspoons salt. 

3 pounds bone from same. 

Take off the dried skin and any soft or bloody portion. 
Cut the meat into small pieces and put it with the cracked 
bone into an earthen jar. Cover with the cold water. Set 
in slow oven and cook from eight to twelve hours. Strain 
through a colander. Add salt to taste; cool quickly. When 
cold remove the fat. Serve cold as a jelly, or reheat ia 
double boiler. 



SOUP 223 

SOUP AND SOUP ACCOMPANIMENTS 

Soup is a light and suitable form of food for the sick. 
There are two classes — those made with meat and those 
without meat. 

The soups with meat are an infusion of meat, flavored with 
salt and some condiment. They are treated in the chapter 
on broths. 

The foundations of soups without meat are milk, vegetables 
and water. They are dainty and nutritious, and an excellent 
way of serving milk and the starch and mineral matter of the 
vegetable. 

They may be served as a luncheon, with crisp crackers, or as 
the first course of a dinner. Serve daintily in heated bouillon 
cups, partly filled, on small plate and doily. 

General Rule for blending: 

(a) Prepare vegetables, cook and strain. 

(6) Prepare cream sauce: Melt butter, add the flour and 
gradually pour on the scalded milk or water. Cook thor- 
oughly. 

(c) Blend (a) and (&). Season, strain and serve imme- 
diately. 

In the preparation of these soups great care must be taken 
that the starch of the vegetable and of the flour used in the 
thickening is thoroughly cooked. Cooking temperature of 
starch is 212 degrees Pahrenheit. 

CREAM OF ASPARAGUS SOUP, 313 CALORIES 
(Individual Eule.) 
14 bundle asparagus. % tablespoon flour. 

1 cup milk. Salt. 

% tablespoon butter. Pepper. 

(a) Wash the asparagus and cook in boiling salted water, 
boiling gently thirty minutes. Take from the water, cut ofE 
the tips and put them into the serving dish; press the re- 
mainder through a colander. 

(&) Scald the milk. Melt the butter, add the flour and 



334 ANIMAL FOODS 

pour on gradually the scalding milk. Cook thoroughly, stir- 
ring often. 

Blend (a) and (6) ; reheat, season to taste, strain over tips 
and serve at once with crisped wafer crackers. 

Note. — For individual quantity use one-half recipe. 

ASPARAGUS SOUP (FOR THE DIABETIC), 30 CAIORIES 

One-half pint of veal stock or water, boiled vnth five or six 
stalks of asparagus. Eeserve tips; mash and strain. Melt 
together one-half teaspoonful of butter with one-half teaspoon- 
ful of Gum Gluten Flour. Add stock and asparagus tips, and 
serve at once. 

CREAM or CORN SOUP, 493 CALORIES 

(Two Servings.) 

% cup corn. 1 cup milk. 

% cup cold water. 1 tablespoon flour. 

34 slice onion. 1 tablespoon butter. 

Salt. Yolk 1 egg. 
Pepper. 

(a) Chop corn, add water and simmer twenty minutes; 
rub through a sieve. 

(&) Scald inilk with onion; remove onion. Melt butter, 
add flour and gradually pour on milk. 

Blend (a) and (&) ; cook thoroughly, season to taste with 
salt and pepper and pour onto the beaten yolk. When well 
blended, serve hot. 

Note. — The yolk of egg may be omitted. 

CREAM OF CELERY SOUP, 320 CALORIES 

(Two Servings.) 
4 stalks celery. 1 tablespoon butter. 

% cup boiling water. 1 tablespoon flour. 

Salt. 1 cup rich milk. 

Pepper. 

(a) Wash and scrape the celery and cut into small pieces, 
add the water and cook until very tender and soft. Eenew 
the water if it boils away. Mash the celery in the water in 
which it was cooked. 



SOUP 225 

(5) Scald milk. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add flour 
and pour on gradually the scalded milk. Cook thoroughly, 
stirring carefully. 

Blend {a) and (6) ; season to taste; strain and serve im- 
mediately with croutons or crisped crackers. 

CEEAII OF CELEKY SOUP (FOB THE SIABEIIC), 226 CALOBIES 

(Three Servings.) 
6 stalks celery. Speck cayenne pepper, salt. 

1 slice onion. % teaspoon butter. 

1 cup water. % teaspoon Gum Gluten Flour. 

1 cup hot milk. 

Boil, mash and strain the first three ingredients, add the 
hot milk or cream. Melt the butter, add the flour and pour 
on gradually the hot soup stock ; season and cook thoroughly. 

CREAM OF PEA SOUP, 215 CAIORIES ^ 

(Individual Rule.) 
14 can peas. 1/3 cup milk. 

14 teaspoon sugar. Vs tablespoon butter. 

1/3 cup cold water. % tablespoon flour. 

Salt and pepper. 

(a) Drain peas from their liquor, rinse thoroughly, add 
sugar and cold water and simmer twenty minutes. Rub 
through a sieve; reheat. 

(6) Scald milk. Melt butter, add flour and pour on grad- 
ually the scalding milk. Cook thoroughly, stirring carefully. 

Note. — Peas that are too old to serve as a vegetable may 
be used for soup. One-half slice onion may be cooked in the 
milk. 

CREAM OF ONION SOTJP, 297 CAIORIES 
(Individual Rule.) 
1 onion. % tablespoon butter. 

1 cup milk. % tablespoon flour. 

Cut onion in small pieces and scald in milk. Melt butter, 
add flour and add gradually the milk mixture and cook well. 
Season with salt and pepper and strain. 



236 ANIMAL FOODS 

ONION SOUP (FOR THE DIABETIC), 30 CALORIES 

One Bermuda or three green onions boiled until tender in 
stock or water ; mash and strain. Add one-half teaspoon Gum 
Gluten Flour, one-half teaspoonful butter and a little chopped 
parsley. One tablespoon of cream, if desired. 

CREAH OF POTATO SOTTP, 220 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
% cup milk. Vz tablespoon flour. 

14 slice onion. ^ teaspoon salt. 

14 cup mashed potatoes. Pepper. 

% tablespoon butter. 

(a) Scald milk with onion in it, remove onion and add milk 
slowly to potatoes. (&) Melt butter, add flour and pour on 
gradually the hot mixture. Cook thoroughly and season to 
taste. A little celery salt may be added if desired. A little 
finely-chopped parsley may be sprinkled over top of soup. 

CREAM OF RICE SOUP, 302 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
1 tablespoon rice. Stalk celery. 

1 cup milk. % bay leaf. 

% tablespoon butter. Salt. 

% small onion. Pepper. 

Scald the milk, add the well-washed rice and cook in double 
boiler thirty minutes, covered closely. 

Melt butter in saut6 pan, add the sliced onion and cook till 
tender, but not brown. Add celery sliced, and turn into 
scalded milk; add the bay leaf, cover and let stand on back 
of stove fifteen minutes. Strain, season with salt and pepper, 
reheat and serve. 

Note. — If soup is too thick, add a little heated milk. 

TOMATO SOUP (WITH BROTH), 110 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
% cup strained tomatoes. 1 cup water or stock. 

% tablespoon butter. 14 teaspoon salt. 

% slice onion. Speck pepper. 

1 tablespoon flour. 



SOUP 327 

(a) Cook and strain tomatoes, obtaining one-half cup 
juice. 

(&) Melt butter, add the onion and brown slightly; add 
the flour ; pour on gradually the boiling water or stock. 

Blend (a) and (b) ; cook thoroughly, season with salt and 
pepper, strain and serve. 

Note. — Two tablespoons of cream may be added. 

Beef or mutton broth strained may be used in place of 
water if desired. 

CEEAH OF TOMATO SOUP (FOR THE DIABETIC), 224 CALORIES 

(Two Servings.) 
% cup tomatoes. V2 teaspoon butter. 

1 slice onion. % teaspoon Gum Gluten Flour. 

1 cup milk. Salt, pepper. 

Stew and strain the tomatoes and onion, reheat and add 
a tiny pinch of soda. When effervescing subsides add milk. 
Melt the butter, add the flour and pour in gradually the hot 
stock. Season and cook thoroughly. 

MOCK BISaXTE SOUP, 324 CALORIES 

(Individual Eule.) 
'^ cup tomatoes. 1 tablespoon butter. 

Ys saltspoon soda. % tablespoons flour or corn- 

Salt and pepper. starch. 

1 cup milk. 

(a) Steam tomatoes until soft enough to strain juice; 
strain, add soda and allow gases to pass off. This prevents 
the acid of the tomato curdling the milk. 

(b) Scald milk ; melt butter in quart size saucepan, add the 
flour and pour on gradually the scalding milk. Cook thor- 
oughly, stirring carefully; 

Blend (a) and (&) ; reheat, season to taste, strain and 
serve immediately with croutons or crackers. 

DRIES FRTJIT SOUP, 209 CALORIES 1 

Yi cup dried apricots. 1 cup cold water. 

14 cup prunes. Sugar to taste. 

1 Without sugar. 



328 ANIMAL FOODS 

Pick over and wash fruit until perfectly clean. Cook in 
the water until very soft. Strain and squeeze out all the 
juice; sweeten to taste. Thicken if liked. 

Thickening. — 1 slightly rounding teaspoon rice flour to 
1 cup liquid. Cook twenty minutes to remove raw taste of 
starch. 

PANOPEPTON BOXriLION — HOT, 30 CAIOEIES 

Put one tablespoonful of Panopepton into a small teacup; 
fill the cup nearly full of boiling water, and flavor to taste 
with celery salt, or plain salt and pepper ; stir, and sip slowly. 
This is a very nourishing and pleasantly stimulating drink. 

VICTORIA SOTTP (WITH BROTH), 619 CALORIES 

(Two Servings.) 
% cup lean chicken meat. 1 cup rich milk. 

1 cup strong chicken broth. 14 cup cracker crumbs. 

% teaspoon salt. Yolks 2 eggs. 

Pepper. 

Soak the crumbs in a little of the milk. Cook yolks of 
eggs in hot water until hard. Chop the chicken, mix with the 
soaked cracker crumbs, press the hard-cooked yolks through 
a coarse strainer, add the seasonings and the broth and cook 
all together five minutes over direct heat or one-half hour in 
double boiler. Serve hot. 

CONSOMME 

Make a beef or any broth according to the strength re- 
quired. While cooking skim frequently, and when reduced 
to one-third of its quantity take from saucepan and strain; 
season well, cool quickly and remove fat. Keturn to sauce- 
pan, add a few thin slices of onion and one-half pound of 
lean beef chopped fine and clear. 

To Clear Soup. To each quart of stock add the slightly 
beaten white and broken shell of one egg and a few shavings 
of lemon rind. Place on front of range, and stir constantly 
until boiling point is reached; boil two minutes. Set back 
where it may simmer twenty minutes ; remove scum and strain 
through double thickness of cheese-cloth. 



SOUP ACCOMPANIMENTS 229 

Note. — To increase the mitrient value and improve flavor, 
Dry Peptonoids Soluble may be added to any stock. Its com- 
plete solubility and concentration have caused it to be recom- 
mended most highly for this purpose. 

OTSTEB, SOTJP 

See chapter " Oysters " for recipe. Pages 171-173. 

OYSTER STEW 
See " Oysters " for recipe. Page 172. 

CLAM SOUP 

See chapter " Clams " for recipe. Page 174. 

CLAM BOUILLON 

See chapter " Clams " for recipe. Page 174. 

CLAM BOUILLON BISaUE 
See chapter " Clams " for recipe. Page 175. 

MEAT SOUPS 
Foundation for same, see chapter " Broths." Page 219. 

SOUP ACCOMPANIMENTS 

GLUTEN BISCUIT CRISPS 
1 ^ 25 Calories. 
Serve plain or butter slightly and bake until heated through. 

CRISPED CRACKERS 
1 Saltine = 15 Calories. 
Split common crackers or use saltines. Put in pan and 
bake until thoroughly heated. Serve plain or buttered 
slightly. 

TOASTED CRACKERS 
Butter crackers, put in pan and bake until a delicate brown. 
Serve on small plate with doily. 



230 ANIMAL FOODS 

CROUTONS 

1 ounce (1 slice) bread = 73 Calories. 
Take a slice of stale bread about half an inch thick, cut 
into half -inch cubes ; put them in a shallow pan and dry thor- 
oughly, then brown delicately. Stir often to brown evenly. 
Serve on small plate with doily. A little butter may be 
spread on the bread if desired. 

NOODIES FOR SOUP (FOR THE DIABETIC), 596 CALORIES 
1 egg. 5 ounces Gum Gluten Flour. 

1 tablespoon milk. 

Beat the egg very light, add the milk and Gum Gluten. 
Eoll very thin and cut in straws. Cook in any soup. 

GLUTEN CRISP (FOR THE DIABETIC) 

See chapter " Toast " for recipe. Page 256. 



CHAPTEE X 
VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

The important food products derived from the vegetable 
kingdom are the Cereals, Legumes — Eoots and Tubers — 
Green Vegetables — Fruits — Nuts — Fungi — Lichens. 

Composition. Vegetable or plant foods contain the five 
proximate principles, namely, proteins, fats, carbohydrates, 
water and mineral matter. In this they resemble animal 
foods. The food principles in the two classes are, however, 
in different proportions, animal foods being rich in proteins 
or fats, and seldom containing carbohydrate in appreciable 
amounts; while vegetable foods are, as a rule, rich in carbo- 
hydrates, and poor in proteins and fats. 

These differences are clearly shown in the following table : 

Pro. Fat. Carb. 
% % % 
Lean round of beef. Free from all vis- 
ible fat 23.2 2.5 

Lean round of beef. Very fat 16.1 23.1 .... 

Wheat flour {entire wheat) 13.8 1.9 71.9 

Potatoes 1.8 0.1 14.7 

Apples 1.6 2.2 66.1 

The legumes and most nuts are exceptional in containing 
high percentages of protein or fat or both, but unlike meats, 
they also contain a very considerable amount of carbohydrate, 
as shown by the following analyses : 

Pro. Fat. Carb. 

% % % 

Beans, dried 22.5 1.8 59.6 

Peas 24.6 1.0 62.0 

Almonds 21.0 54.9 17.3 

Walnuts 16.6 63.4 16.1 

231 



232 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

Protein} (1) Gluten of wheat and some of the other 
cereals. 

(2) Legumin found in legumes. 

(3) Vegetable albumin as found in some vegetables. 
Carbohydrates of Vegetables'^ include — starch, sugar, veg- 
etable gums and cellulose. 

Fats of Vegetables '' are in the form of oils and are similar, 
in composition to animal fats, but are more easily digested 
and equal in nutritive value. 

Water. Dry vegetable foods, such as cereals, dried beans 
and peas, nuts, dried fruits, etc., do not, as a rule, contain 
as much water as animal foods, but fresh vegetables and fruits 
contain frequently from 90 per cent, to 95 per cent, of water. 

This gives them a low nutritive value compared with their 
bulk. In cooking, water is added to most dry vegetable foods, 
so that when served they resemble fresh or succulent vegetable 
foods in this respect. 

Mineral Matter.^ All vegetable foods contain valuable ash 
constituents. In cereals, these are largely in the outer part 
of the grain, and are lost if the entire grain is not utilized. 
Thus polished rice is much poorer in ash constituents than 
unpolished; and white iiour than entire wheat flour. Presh 
vegetables and fruits are desirable in the dietary for their 
salts and organic acids. 

Digestibility. Vegetable foods are less easily digested than 
animal foods, owing to their complex composition, and espe- 
cially to the intimate mixture of the nutrients with cellulose. 
This prevents the digestive ferments acting readily upon the 
food-stu£Es so that they are digested more slowly and less com- 
pletely than animal foods. Although cellulose is indigestible, 
its presence under normal conditions in proper amounts, is 
advantageous,^ but it should be thoroughly softened by cook- 
ing, except in the case of tender young vegetables such as 
lettuce. 

* Protein, see p. 10. 
^Carbohydrates, see p. 16. 
8 Pats of vegetables, see p. 20. 
^ Mineral matter, see p. 31. 
^ See p. 17. 



CEREALS 233 

Comparative Value of Animal and Vegetable Diets. An 
animal diet is concentrated and easily digested. If the ani- 
mal foods taken are eggs and milk, no serious objection can 
be urged against them, except that they lack bulk. The food 
is so fully absorbed that the large intestine has no stimulus 
to action and no material for its muscles to act upon, and 
serious complications are likely to arise from constipation. 
If the animal food is largely meat, it is undesirable, not only 
for the reason above mentioned, but because excessive quan- 
tities of nitrogenous extractives are taken, which are likely 
to cause uric acid disorders and other disturbances, and also 
because important mineral salts are lacking (such as calcium, 
which carnivorous animals get by eating bone) ; and because 
the acids formed from the protein (phosphoric and sulphuric) 
tend to deprive the body of salts already present in the tissues. 

A strict vegetable diet, on the other hand, while free from 
these objections, is necessarily very bulky, owing to the high 
percentages of water and cellulose, and to the fact that extra 
allowance must be made because it is less perfectly absorbed. 
Unless special care is taken, a vegetable diet is also likely to 
be low in protein. Legumes and nuts must form a consid- 
erable part of the dietary to provide this. When eggs, milk 
and milk products are added to the vegetable foods, the diet 
becomes mixed, and these objections no longer hold. 

An Ideal Diet contains a mixture of animal and vegetable 
foods, so that protein, fat, carbohydrate and mineral matter 
are supplied in proper proportions and in available forms, and 
sufficient bulk is afforded for proper intestinal action. 

CEREALS 

GRUELS — BREAKFAST FOODS — STARCHY JELLIES — MACA- 
RONI 

Wherever it is possible to grow grains, they are staples of 
man's diet. No food products of the vegetable kingdom equal 
them in importance. They are cheaply and easily grown, and 
contain all the food principles in unusually good proportion. 



234 VEGETABLE OB PLANT FOODS 

They can be kept for long periods, are not difficult to cook, 
and furnish a palatable and digestible article of diet. Cereals 
alone supply nearly one-fourth of the total food in a large 
number of the American families. Wheat, corn, rye, oats, 
barley, rice and buckwheat are in commonest use. 

The natural grain is surrounded by an indigestible husk 
which is always removed. Grains simply hulled or husked, 
and slightly crushed are called groats or grits; more finely 
crushed, they constitute meal ; ground to a powder and sifted 
they form flour. 

Composition. Cereals contain all the food principles, with 
considerable cellulose, especially in the outer skin, which forms 
bran in milling. They are comparatively dry materials, hav- 
ing an average water content of about 10 per cent. The pro- 
tein content is fairly high, averaging 13 per cent.-13 per cent.'^ 
The fat is never large in amount, and varies within wide 
limits, being greatest in corn and oats and their products, and 
lowest in rice. 

The nutrients in largest proportion are the carbohydrates, 
which frequently constitute 75 per cent, of the whole. The 
ash content is as large as in most common food materials, and 
some of the grains, as oats and wheat, are especially valuable 
for their soluble phosphates of calcium, potassium, magne- 
sium, etc. 

The chemical composition of some of the most common 
cereals is shown in the following table : 

Carbohydrates 

Water Protein Fat Starch, etc. Crude Fiber Ash 

Per Cent. Per Cent. Per Cent. Per Cent. Per Cent. Per Cent. 

Barley 10.9 12.4 1.8 69.8 2.7 2.4 

Corn (maize) ... 9.3 9.9 2.8 74.9 1.4 1.5 

Oats 11.0 11.8 5.0 69.7 9.5 3.0 

Rice 12.4 7.4 0.4 79.2 0.2 0.4 

Wheat (spring) ..10.4 12.5 2.2 71.2 1.8 1.9 

It will be seen that corn is relatively rich in fat; oats in 
both protein and fat; rye and wheat .in protein with a mod- 
erate amount of fat; rice is notably free from crude fiber 
and fat, and also very low in ash. 

^ For further information, see "Cereal Breakfast Foods," Farmer's Bulle- 
tin No. 249, Agricultural Dept., Washington, D. C. 



CEREALS 335 

Cereal Breakfast Foods are very similar in composition to 
the grains from which they are made. 

Macaroni is much like wheat breakfast foods in composition 
and food value. 

Principles in Cooking. Cooking improves cereals in many 
ways. Per the average person, proper cooking has almost as 
much to do with the nutriment finally obtained as the pro- 
portions of nutrients originally present. Flavor and appear- 
ance are improved, with the gain in digestibility that comes 
from appetizing foods which stimulate the flow of digestive 
juices. Cooking to convert nutrients ' into more digestible 
forms, is very important in the case of cereals which contain 
so much starch; and since the starch in these foods is sur- 
rounded by cell-walls of crude fiber (largely cellulose) upon 
which the digestive juices are unable to act, these walls must 
be broken down. Part of this disintegration may be accom- 
plished in milling, and part by thorough mastication but com- 
plete digestion of the starch is assured only by thorough 
cooking. 

Parching is one of the simplest methods of cooking grains. 
The invisible moisture in the cells is expanded by the heat, 
and the cell walls burst. Some of the starch is also made 
soluble or changed to dextrin by this process. The digestibil- 
ity of protein seems to be lessened by cooking at high tem- 
peratures, but the starch can be made almost perfectly di- 
gestible. 

The softening of cellulose is more perfectly accomplished 
by cooking for a long time in the presence of a large amount 
of moisture, as in steaming, or cooking with water or milk 
in a double boiler. The glutinous material which surrounds 
the starch grains and prevents their digestion is disintegrated 
so that the digestive juices can act. In general, the more 
crude fiber a cereal contains, the longer it should be cooked. 
Reference to the table (p. 234) shows that oats requires 
more cooking than rice; whole or partially crushed grains 
than finely ground ones. There is danger in undercooked 
cereals, not only of loss of valuable nutriment through failure 



336 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

of digestion, but in irritation of the alimentary tract. This 
should be especially remembered in preparing partially cooked 
breakfast foods. 

\ATien cereals are cooked in water some of it is absorbed, 
and soluble substances in the food pass into the remaining 
water. If this is thrown away, as when rice is boiled in a 
large quantity of water and subsequently drained dry, a con- 
siderable part of the nutriment is lost. Eice water frequently 
contains enough dissolved starch to form a jelly on cooling. 
For this reason steaming is a preferable method. Practical 
application of the fact that certain nutrients in cereals are 
soluble is made in the preparation of all kinds of cereal 
waters and starchy Jellies. (See Eecipes, pp. 134:-344.) 

Gruels are thin porridges made from flour or other finely 
ground grain products, with either water or milk. They are 
cooked for a long time to insure the starch being changed to 
soluble starch, or even partially dextrinized. Time for cook- 
ing should therefore be conscientiously kept by the clock. 

By passing the material through a cheese-cloth or sieve, the 
coarser, undissolved portions are removed, and the smooth 
product does not irritate weakened digestive organs; hence 
this method is desirable for invalids and young children. 

In cooking all cereal products, the following points should 
be observed: 

Use a double boiler. 

Observe carefully the correct proportions of cereal, water 
and salt. 

Cook at boiling temperature (313° F.). 

Watch the time by the clock, and always cook the full time 
prescribed, preferably longer. 

Serve attractively. 

Improper cooking and poor serving are largely responsible 
for unpopularity of cereal foods. 

Digestibility. The digestibility of cereals is greatly in- 
fluenced by the mode of preparation and the thoroughness of 
insalivation. For the normal healthy person cereal foods are 
very wholesome. In general, about 90 per cent, or more of 



CEREALS 237 

the organic matter is assimilated. The carbohydrates are 
most completely digested ; the protein shows a wide variation, 
but is less perfectly assimilated than the other nutrients, 
owing partly to the fact that it is often hardened in cooking 
and partly that it is intimately bound up with cellulose in 
the bran coats. For this reason white flour shows a higher 
degree of digestibility for protein, than do whole wheat prepa- 
rations. 

Among cereal breakfast foods, rolled wheat ranks first in 
digestibility, rolled oats next, and corn preperations among 
the lowest. The partially digested or ready-to-eat cereals 
supply more digestible material than the plain grains when 
well cooked. 

Nutritive Value. Cereals supply actual digestible nutri- 
ments to the body more cheaply than any other class of foods 
except the dried legumes. All animal foods, especially meats, 
are more expensive, even as sources of protein, than cereals. 
A glance at their composition shows that they are chiefly fuel 
foods, because of their high carbohydrate content. Their 
cost varies with the cost of labor and fuel in preparing the 
food. The comparatively expensive ready-to-eat breakfast 
foods do not yield any extra nutritive value. Their only ad- 
vantages are pleasant flavor and ease of serving. Cereal 
products yield on the average between 1600 and 1700 calories 
per pound. Thus: 

1 lb. flour furnishes 1665 calories. 

1 lb. entire wheat flour furnishes 1675 calories. 

1 lb. corn meal furnishes 1655 calories. 

1 lb. cornstarch furnishes 1675 calories. 

1 lb. wheatlet furnishes 1685 calories. 

1 lb. hominy furnishes 1650 calories. 

1 lb. granulated corn meal furnishes 1665 calories. 

1 lb. wheat germ furnishes 1695 calories. 

1 lb. tapioca furnishes 1650 calories. 

Care of Cereals. Cereals must be kept in a cool, dry place; 
warmth will favor the development of the maggot eggs; and 
moisture, when absorbed, makes them musty. 



238 VEGETABLE OB PLANT FOODS 

GRUELS 

ARROWROOT GRTJEI, 205 CALORIES i 
(Individual Eule.) 
2 teaspoons arrowroot. 1 cup boiling water or milk. 

2 tablespoons cold water. Salt. 

Sugar, lemon juice, wine or brandy as required. 

Blend the arrowroot and cold water to a smooth paste. 
Add to the boiling water or milk. Cook in double boiler two 
hours. Add salt. Strain and serve hot. 

Arrowroot is the purest form of starch, and beneficial in 
case of diarrhoea if not given too hot. 

BARLEY GRUEL, 248 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 tablespoon barley flour. 1 eup scalded milk. 

2 tablespoons cold milk. Salt. 

Blend the barley flour with the cold milk and stir into 
the scalding milk. Cook in double boiler twenty minutes. 
Season with salt to taste, and add sugar if desired. Strain. 

BARLEY GRUEL OR JELLY, 142 CALORIES i 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 tablespoon barley flour. % cup milk (if desired). 

2 tablespoons cold water. Salt. 

1 eup boiling water. 

Blend carefully the barley flour and the cold water; add 
gradually to the boiling water and cook twenty minutes. Add 
milk and salt to taste, reheat to boiling point, strain and 
serve or bottle for keeping. 

Note. — For jelly omit the milk and strain. 

RICE OR OAT GRTTEL 

Eice or oat gruel may be made in same way as Barley 
Gruel No. I or II, using the prepared flour for the purpose. 

BARLEY GRUEL (WITH BROTH), 308 CALORIES 
(Two Servings.) 

2 cups beef broth. 2 tablespoons cold water. 
2 tablespoons barley flour. 1 saltspoon salt. 

^ Calculated witli milk. 



GRUELS 239 

Mix barley flour and salt with the cold water to form a 
smooth paste. Add gradually to the boiling stock and boil 
one-half hour. Strain and serve very hot. 

CEACKEB OSTJEL, 243 CALOKIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
2 tablespoons sifted cracker 1 cup scalded milk. 

crumbs. 
% teaspoon salt. 

Pour hot milk gradually onto cracker crumbs, stirring con- 
stantly. Cook in double boiler five minutes or two minutes 
over direct heat. 

Note. — Before preparing crumbs, crackers may be baked 
in a slow oven until a delicate brown; or graham crackers 
may be used. A convenient way to prepare the crumbs is to 
put them several times through a meat chopper and then sift. 

FLOUR GRUEL OR THICKENED MILK, 212 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
% cup scalded milk. Speck salt. 

l^ cup cold milk. 1 dozen raisins. 

% tablespoon flour. 

Scald the milk. Mix the flour with the cold milk to make 
a smooth mixture, and stir into the scalding milk. Cook in 
a double boiler one-half hour or on back of stove in a sauce- 
pan. 

Stone and quarter the raisins, then add water enough to 
cover; cook slowly until water has all boiled away. Add to 
gruel just before serving. Add salt. Strain and serve, or it 
may be eaten with the raisins in it. 

Note. — This gruel may be made without the raisins. 
Never use raisins in bowel troubles. 

FARINA GRUEL, 102 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
% tablespoon farina. % cup scalded milk. 

14 cup cold water. Salt. 

14 cup boiling water. 



240 VEGETABLE OB PLANT FOODS 

Mix the farina with the cold water, add to the boiling 
water and boil thirty minutes. Add the scalding milk. 
Taste and season properly. A little sugar may be added if 
desired, or an egg may be beaten and the gruel poured into it. 

GLrTEH GBTTEI OR PORRIDGE (FDR THE DIABETIC), 185 CAL- 
ORIES 1 

(Individual Rule.) 

% tablespoon Gum Gluten Mour. 1 cup hot water or milk. 
1 tablespoon cold water. Salt. 

Add cold water slowly to Gluten Flour to form a thin 
paste, then add gradually to boiling water, while stirring con- 
stantly; cook fifteen minutes. Season with salt. Is an ex- 
cellent food for the sick ; for baby food it may be sweetened. 

INDIAN MEAI GRUEL, 48 CALORIES 2 

1 tablespoon Indian meal. 2 tablespoons cold water. 

% tablespoon flour. 2 cups boiling water. 

% teaspoon salt. Milk or cream. 

Blend the meal, flour and salt with the cold water to make 
a smooth paste, and stir into the boiling water. Boil gently 
one hour and a half. Dilute with hot water, milk' or cream. 
Strain. 

OATMEAL GRUEL NO. I, 70 CALORIES 2 

14 cup coarse oatmeal. 1% cup boiling water. 

% teaspoon salt. Milk or cream. 

Add oatmeal and salt to the boiling water, and cook four to 
five hours in a double boiler, adding more water if necessary. 
Strain and dilute with hot milk to make it of the right con- 
sistency. Eeheat and serve. 

Kote. — Sugar, and a little port wine may be added if al- 
lowed and desired. 

^ Calculated with milk. 
^ Without milk or cream. 



GRUELS 341 

OATMEAL GRUEL, SO. II, 70 CALORIES i 

% teaspoon salt. 
\% cup boiling water. Milk or cream. 

Mix the oats, water and salt in top of double boiler. Cook 
over direct heat five minutes and then over hot water one 
hour. Strain, bring to the boiling point and add milk or 
cream as desired. 

OATMEAL GRTJEL NO. Ill, 140 CALORIES i 

% cup coarse oatmeal. Salt. 

2 cups water. Milk. 

Pound the oatmeal in a mortar until it is mealy, then put 
it into a tumbler and fill it with cold water. Stir, and pour 
off the mealy water into a saucepan. Fill tumbler again, stir 
and pour off, and repeat until the above quantity of water is 
exhausted. Boil the oatmeal water thirty minutes, stirring 
frequently. Season with salt to taste. Thin with milk or 
cream to desired consistency. 

EGG AND SHERRY GRTTEL, 388 CALORIES 
(Individual Kule.) 
1 egg. 1 tablespoon sugar. 

1 wineglass sherry. Grating of nutmeg. 

1 teaspoon lemon juice. 1 cup smooth hot gruel. 

Beat the egg; add wine, lemon, nutmeg and pour on the 
hot gruel. 

CATJDLE, 404 CALORIES 2 
% cup Scotch oatmeal. Juice % lemon. 

2 quarts water. Sugar, cinnamon, brandy, or 
Salt to taste. wine. 

% cup raisins. 

Boil oatmeal, water and salt four or five hours. Strain; 
if too thick add a little hot water and whip it with a wooden 
spoon. Eemove seeds from raisins, cook a short time in hot 
water, and add raisins and water to above. Add lemon juice, 
and sugar, cinnamon, brandy or wine to taste. 

1 Without milk or cream. 
^ Without sugar or liquor. 



242 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

FLOUR BALI OR BOILED OR BROWNED FLOUR GRUEL (FOR 
TEETHING CHILDREN) 

Tie one cup of wheat flour in a thick cloth, and boil it in 
one quart of water for three hours ; remove the cloth and ex- 
pose the flour to the air, or heat until it is hard. Grate from 
it when wanted. Put one tablespoonful into half a pint of 
new milk, and stir over the fire until it comes to a boil ; add 
a pinch of salt and a tablespoon of cold waterj and serve. 
This gruel is excellent for children afflicted with summer com- 
plaint. Or brown a tablespoon of flour in the oven, or on 
top of the stove in a baking tin ; feed a few pinches at a time 
to a child, and it will often check diarrhoea. 

BREAKFAST FOODS 

Fruits served with breakfast foods make them more ap- 
petizing. 

Follow directions on package for preparing patent or pre- 
pared cereals, allowing double the given time for cooking. 

HASTY PUDDING OR CORNUEAL UUSH, 182 CALORIES i 

(Individual Kule.) 
14 cup cornmeal. % cup cold milk or water. 

V^ tablespoon flour. 14 cup boiling water. 

% teaspoon salt. 

Mix the meal, flour and salt with the cold milk or water; 
when smooth, stir into the boiling water. Cook in a double 
boiler one hour or more; or over direct heat one-half hour. 
Serve with cream and sugar, turn into tins to cool if wanted 
for sauteing. Cut into slices, dip in flour and saute in drip- 
pings or butter. 

GLUTEN BREAKFAST FOOD (FOR THE DIABETIC), 665 CAL- 
ORIES 
(Two Servings.) 
Yg cup Gum Gluten Breakfast 2 cups cold water. 
Food. Salt. 

Would suggest partly cooking the Breakfast Food the day 

^ Calculated with milk. 



BREAKFAST FOODS 243 

before using, as a long cooking improves the quality. Put 
the food in the water and cook over direct heat for fifteen 
minutes, then put in double boiler and cook for about one 
hour, adding salt to taste when nearly done. It is then neces- 
sary to cook it but twenty minutes in the morning. Serve 
with cream. 

HOMINY MUSH, 200 CALORIES 
(Individual Rule.) 
Vi cup fine hominy. I1/3 cups boiling water. 

y^ teaspoon salt. 

Put all together in a double boiler and cook two hours 
Add more water if mush seems stiff and thick; all prepara- 
tions of corn absorb a great deal of water in cooking, and 
hominy usually needs a little more than four times its bulk. 

Note. — Hominy is exceedingly indigestible unless well 
cooked, but sweet and nutritious when subjected to a high 
temperature for a long time. 

OATMEAL MUSH FOB, CHILDREN AND INVALIDS, 880 CALORIES 

(Four Servings.) 
1 cup granulated oatmeal. 1 scant quart boiling water. 

1 teaspoon salt. 

Put the oatmeal and salt in a double boiler, pour on the 
boiling water and cook three or four hours. Eemove the 
cover just before serving, and stir with a fork to let the 
steam escape. If the water in the lower boiler be strongly 
salted, the oatmeal will cook more quickly. Serve with sugar 
or salt and cream or milk. 

Note. — Baked sour apples, apple sauce and apple jelly are 
delicious eaten with oatmeal. They should be served with the 
mush, and sugar and cream poured over the whole. They 
give the acid flavor which so many crave in the morning. 
Coarse oatmeal is not advisable in any form of water brash, 
acidity or bowel irritations. It often causes eruptions on the 
skin in warm weather. 

BOILED RICE 

See," Rice Puddings " for recipe. Page 397. 



2U VEGETABLE OB PLANT FOODS 

STEAUED KICK 
See " Eice Puddings " for recipe. Page 298. 

STARCHY JELUES 

BARLEY JEILY, 270 CAIORIES 
(Three Servings.) 

3 tablespoons pearl barley. % saltspoon salt. 
1 quart cold water. 

Soak barley over night, drain and add the quart of fresh 
water; add salt; and cook in double boiler steadily for four 
hours down to one pint, adding water from time to time; 
strain through muslin. When cold this makes a thick jelly. 
Two tablespoons dissolved in eight ounces of warmed and 
sweetened milk may be given at single feeding for infants. 

Note. — Oatmeal wheaten grits and rice grains may be used 
in same way. 

Jelly made with Barley Flour, see Barley Gruel, p. 338. 

RICE JEILY, 181 CAIORIES 

(Three Servings.) 
1% tablespoons rice. % cup milk. 

1 cup cold water. 1 white of egg. 

Speck salt. 

Wash the rice and soak in cold water two hours, drain off 
the water and add the milk, cook in double boiler one and one- 
Ijalf hours. Strain through a fine sieve. Pour into molds, 
chill and serve with fruit juice or cream and sugar. 

TAPIOCA JEIIY, 200 CAIORIES 

(Three Servings.) 

4 tablespoons pearl tapioca. % cup boiling water. 
1 cup cold water. Speck salt. 

Soak tapioca in cold water three hours; add boiling 
water and salt; cook in double boiler two and one-fourth 
hours. Serve hot, plain with cream, wine and powdered 
sugar, or flavor while hot with lemon juice, and chill. 

CORNSTARCH JEIIIES 
See " Cornstarch Pudding " for recipe. Page 395. 



MACARONI 245 



1LA.CAE0NI 



BOILED ITACABONI, 98 CALOBIESi 
(Individual Rule.) 
% cup macaroni. 1 teaspoon salt. 

3 cups boiling water. Cream or milk. 

Break macaroni into one-inch pieces, put into a strainer 
and rinse with, cold ■water. Cook in boiling salted water 
twenty minutes, or until tender. Strain, pour a little cold 
water over it to prevent pieces from adhering; add cream, 
reheat and season with salt; or serve with White or Tomato 
Sauce and grated cheese. 

WHITE SAUCE, 152 CAIOKIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
14 cup milk. % tablespoon flour. 

Yz tablespoon butter. l^ teaspoon salt. 

Scald the milk. Melt the butter, remove from stove and 
add the flour and mix thoroughly, then pour on gradually the 
hot milk, stirring constantly while blending. Cook thor- 
oughly until there is no raw taste of starch and season with 
salt. 

TOMATO SAUCE, 93 CALORIES 
(Individual Rule.) 
% cup strained tomato juice. % tablespoon flour. 
% tablespoon butter. Salt and pepper to taste. 

Scald the tomatoes. Melt the butter and remove from 
stove, add the flour and mix thoroughly, then pour on grad- 
ually the hot tomato, stirring constantly while blending ; cook 
thoroughly until there is no raw taste of starch and season 
with salt and pepper. 

BAKED KACABONI 
1 tablespoon, grated fresb cheese = 62 Calories. 
Pill a buttered baking-dish with alternate layers of maca- 
roni. White Sauce and cheese; then cover with buttered 

1 Without milk or cream. 



346 VEGETABLE OB PLANT FOODS 

cracker crumbs and bake until crumbs are a golden brown. 
Tomato Sauce may be substituted for White Sauce if desired. 

BTJTTERES CKACEER CRUUBS, 201 CALORIES 

1 tablespoon butter. ^ cup cracker crumba. 

Melt butter and add cracker crumbs that have been rolled 
fine. To be used for the top of any scalloped dish. Cracker 
crumbs or bread crumbs may be used and bits of butter dotted 
over top. 

NOODLES (FOR THE DIABETIC), 596 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
I egg, well beaten. 5 ounces Gum Gluten Flour. 

1 tablespoon milk. 

Beat egg, add milk and gradually add the Gluten Flour. 
Eoll out and cut in thin strips. Serve with any soup. 

BOILED NOODLES (FOR THE DIABETIC) 

Put the noodles into cold, salted water ; cook at least forty- 
five minutes after it comes to boil, or boil until it is tender. 
Season with pepper and butter. Serve with White Sauce. 

CREAM OR WHITE SAUCE (POR THE DIABETIC), 130 CALORIES 
(Individual Rule.) 
% cup milk. 1 teaspoon Gum Gluten Flour. 

1 teaspoon butter. 

Melt the butter without browning it, add the flour, then 
pour in the scalded milk gradually, stirring all the time. 
Cook five minutes. Season with salt and red pepper to taste. 
Flavor with onion, lemon juice or parsley if desired. Pour 
over vegetables very hot. 

NOODLES ATT GRATIN (FOR THE DIABETIC) 

1 tablespoon grated fresh cheese = 62 Calories. 
Boil the noodles as above. Place them in a baking-dish in 
alternate layers with grated cheese, having cheese form the 
top layer; season with pepper and butter. Pour over the 
mixture the water in which the noodles were cooked; or, if 
preferred, cream or stewed tomatoes may be used to moisten. 



BREAD 247 



BREAD 



From the most remote times, bread has been an important 
part of the diet of mankind. It is to-day probably more gen- 
erally and extensively used than any other one food-stuil, 
with the possible exception of milk. It is therefore extremely 
important to know what constitutes good bread and what are 
its nutritive properties. 

Composition. The ingredients of bread are very simple — 
flour, water, yeast and salt. Any cereal, cleaned, crushed and 
sifted to a powder, may serve as the flour, but wheat flour 
makes the most satisfactory bread, because its proteins in 
the form of gluten have more elasticity than those of other 
cereals. 

" Bread contains from 34 to 40 per cent, of water, and the 
remainder, about 60 per cent, at least, is nutritive material. 
It contains a large amount of carbohydrates, a moderate 
amount of protein, a small amount of mineral matter, and 
almost no fat. Owing to the excess of carbohydrates and 
deficiency of protein in wheat, bread could not serve alone 
for the proper nutritive of the body, because an amount of 
bread sufficient to supply the requisite protein would furnish 
much more carbohydrates than necessary. In a mixed diet 
this discrepancy is of little importance, as it is supplied by 
the other protein foods eaten. Most methods of increasing 
the protein contents of bread have a tendency to increase 
the cost, but skim milk can be used in place of water in the 
mixing with little added expense, and it will add about 2 
per cent, increase as to protein." ^ 

Digestibility and Nutritive Value. " The nutritive value 
of bread depends, not only on its chemical composition, but 
also on its digestibility, and digestibility in its turn seems 
to depend largely on the lightness of the loaf. It is the 
gluten in a dough which gives it the power of stretching 
and rising as the gas from the yeast expands within it, and 

' From Fanner's BuUetin No. 389, U. S. Dept. of Agriculture, WasMng- 
ton, D. C. For further information, read ' ' Bread and Bread-Making,'^' 
Fanner's Bulletin No. 389. 



348 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

hence of making a light loaf. Eye has less gluten proteids 
than wheat, while barley, oats and maize have none, so that 
they do not make a light, porous loaf like wheat. It is pos- 
sible that of the various kinds of wheat flour those con- 
taining a large part of the bran — entire wheat and graham 
flours — • furnish the body with more mineral matter than 
fine white flour; but it is not certain that the extra amount 
of mineral matter furnished is of the same value as that from 
the interior of the grain. They do not yield more digestible 
protein than the white flours, as was for a time supposed. 
It seems safe to say that, as far as is known, for a given 
amount of money, white flour yields the most actual nourish- 
ment with the various food ingredients in good proportion. 

" It should be remembered, however, that all kinds of bread 
are wholesome if of good quality, and the use of several 
kinds is an easy means of securing variety in the diet." ^ As 
compared with most meats and vegetables, bread has prac- 
tically no waste, and is very completely digested. Few foods 
yield so much energy for so little money. A diet of bread 
and milk can be perfectly balanced and will be tired of less 
easily than any other equally simple diet. 

All bread-stuffs should be eaten slowly and thoroughly 
masticated, in order that time may be given for the saliva 
to act upon the starch. For if the stomach is hampered with 
quantities of unchanged starch it cannot perform its work 
without effort. Fermentation results or the intestines have 
more than their share of work to do and rebel. If these foods 
were eaten slowly much of the resultant dyspepsia would be 
avoided. 

Gluten Bread. When, for any reason, persons are denied 
starch in the diet, as in diabetes, they find it a great priva- 
tion to do without bread, and many attempts have been made 
to provide an acceptable substitute. Sometimes bran is used, 
or inulin or Iceland moss, but none of these is nutritious. 
One of the best materials for this purpose is gluten flour. 

^From Fanner's Bulletin No. 389, U. S. Dept. o£ Agriculture, Washing- 
ton, D. 0. 



BREAD 249 

It is prepared by washing the starch, wholly or in part, from 
wheat flour. The grayish, tough, elastic, sticky mass left 
after this process is largely gluten, and since gluten is a 
protein, it has been sometimes called " the lean meat of the 
vegetable kingdom." The washed gluten, dried and ground, 
is called gluten flour. 

It still contains considerable starch, so that it is necessary 
for the physician to know the exact composition of the brand 
employed, to insure good results. 

Gluten Standards. The necessity for a Standard for Gluten 
Flour is very apparent to chemists who have had occasion to 
analyze the various kinds on the market. For years millers 
have supplied dealers with middlings, entire wheat flour and 
mixtures containing bran to be sold as gluten flour. Igno- 
rant of those facts, physicians advise their patients to use 
gluten, but, of course, have invariably been disappointed in 
results. 
United States Standard for Gluten: 

" Gluten Flour is the product made from flour by the re- 
moval of starch, and contains not less than five and six- 
tenths (5.6) per cent, of Nitrogen, and not more than ten 
(10) per cent, of Moisture." 

Note. — Using the factor G.35 usually employed by the U. 
S. Government chemists. Standard Gluten Flour must there- 
fore show at least thirty-five (35) per cent, protein. 

Bread-Mahing. The two practical methods of making 
bread are with yeast (fermented bread) and with cream of 
tartar and bicarbonate of soda (unfermented bread). 

Fermented Bread. The raising or leavening of bread is 
usually brought about by allowing yeast to develop in it. 
Yeast is an exceedingly minute form of plant life, which, 
when given food, flour, moisture and warmth, grows; and 
by this growth produces carbon dioxide and alcohol. 

The carbon dioxide, in its effort to escape, puffs up the 
flour dough, but owing to the viscous nature of the gluten 
(the elastic, strength-giving substances of flour) it is caught 
and retained. 



250 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

Each little bubble of gas occupies a certain space, and 
when the bread is baked the walls around these spaces harden 
and the result is a porous loaf. The alcohol escapes into the 
oven in the baking. 

To bake bread requires a hot oven. 

The bread should continue to rise for about fifteen min- 
utes after being placed in the oven, then the rising should 
cease and the loaf begin to brown. 

We bake bread to kill the yeast plant, to render the starch 
soluble, to expel the alcohol and carbon dioxide and to form 
a nice flavored crust. 

The making of good bread requires care and intelligence 
on the part of the cook. Use a good brand of flour, fresh 
yeast, remembering that yeast is a plant and must be put at 
a proper temperature to grow. Watch each process carefully. 

" Lightness and sweetness of bread depends as much on 
the way in which it is made as on the materials used. The 
greatest care should be used in preparing and baking the 
dough and in cooking and keeping the finished bread." 

Unfermented Bread. Carbon dioxide is obtained to lighten 
bread by causing cream of tartar and bicarbonate of soda to 
unite chemically. 

To one part soda use two parts cream of tartar. When 
given moisture and heat carbon dioxide is obtained. 

Baking powder is a combination of the following in- 
gredients : 

Bicarbonate of soda 84 grammes to 

Cream of tartar 188 grammes 

Starch ■ 5 to 20 per cent. 

WHITE FLOUR BREAD 

1 slice (1 oz.) =73 Calories. 
1 pint hot milk (or water). 1 tablespoon salt. 

1 pint cold milk (or water). 1 Fleischmann's yeast cake. 

1 tablespoon sugar. Flour. 

2 tablespoons butter or lard. 

Into mixing bowl put the scalded milk, add the butter; 
when melted add the sugar, salt and cold milk. Save one- 



BBEAD 251 

half cup of this liquid, and when, lukewarm soften the yeast 
in it and stand where it will keep warm. To above mixture 
add warmed sifted flour (sift twice before using) to make a 
thin batter, add softened yeast and more flour until stiff 
enough to knead. Knead until light and spongy. Care 
should be taken not to add more flour than is absolutely neces- 
sary. Butter a large stone crock or bowl, place bread in it 
and cover. Let rise three and one-half hours at about 75 
degrees Fahrenheit (in a medium warm room). Then re- 
move from jar and knead about twenty minutes until smooth 
and velvety, put into pans, cover carefully and let rise one 
hour or until double its bulk. 

Bake in a hot oven from forty-five minutes to one hour, 
depending upon size of loaves. 

If hard crust is desired, remove from pans and cool in a 
draft of air. For soft crust, before bread cools roll it in a 
clean cloth. 

This quantity will make three good sized loaves; one-half 
the amount may be used for one large loaf. 

ENTIRE WHEAT BREAD 
1 slice (1 oz. ) = 70 Calories. 



2 cups scalded milk. 


2 yeast cakes dissolved in % cup 


2 cups boiling water. 


lukewarm water. 


3 tablespoons butter. 


2 cups white flour. 


3 tablespoons salt. 


Entire wheat flour enough to 


5 tablespoons molasses. 


knead. 



Make as for wheat flour bread, and add molasses after the 
first rising. 

One-half of recipe may be used. 

WHOLE WHEAT OR 6RAHAS BREAD 

Make the same as wheat flour bread, adding two table- 
spoons of sugar or molasses. Make a batter with white flour, 
using three or four cups, then use whole wheat or graham 
flour. Let rise longer than for white bread, and put imme- 
diately into pans without second kneading. 

N"ote. — Omit sweetening if desired. 



252 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

GITJTEN BREAD (FOR THE DIABETIC) 

1 slice (1 oz.)::=71 Calories. 
% yeast cake. 3% cups Gum Gluten Flour. 

2 cups lukewarm water. % teaspoon salt. 

Soften the yeast in a small portion of the water and add 
to the ingredients. Mix to a stiff dough and knead thor- 
oughly, using more gluten if necessary to keep it from stick- 
ing to the board. Shape into a loaf, place in a buttered pan 
for about two and one-half hours to rise until the dough is 
about twice its bulk. Then bake for forty-five minutes. If 
desired the dough may be given a second mixing after the 
first rising, letting it rise again before baking. 

Note. — Gum Gluten Bread may be made the same as ordi- 
nary wheat flour bread with the exception of shortening, 
which is not required. 

Avoid having the water too warm or the bread will be 
sticky; the chill taken off is all that is necessary. 

If desired, one cup of nut meats cut in small pieces may be 
added to dough just before putting into pans. 

BRAIT BREAD 

Follow rule for Gluten Bread, using one part of bran 
to four parts of Gluten Flour with one cup of moisture. If 
the bran is increased the moisture must be lessened. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD, 2530 CALORIES 

1 small slice (1 oz. ) =64 Calories. 
1 cup granulated Indian meal. 2 cups sour milk. 
1 cup rye flour. 2 teaspoons soda. 

1 cup graham flour. % cup molasses. 

1 teaspoon salt. 

Mix dry ingredients (except soda) together; dissolve soda 
in sour milk and add, then, molasses. Pour into buttered tins 
and steam three or four hours. 

GLUTEN BISCUIT (FOR THE DIABETIC), 950 CALORIES i 
1 cup Gum Gluten Self-raising. 1 saltspoon salt. 
1 tablespoon butter. Milk or water. 

iWithont milk. 



BREAD 253 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, rub in the butter, add milk 
or water to make a soft dough. EoU and cut with biscuit 
cutter. Makes two large biscuits. 

GITJTEN DROP BISCUIT (FOR THE DIABETIC), 562 CALORIES i 

1 cup Gum Gluten Flour. % teaspoon baking powder. 

1 teaspoon butter. Milk or water. 

% teaspoon salt. 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, rub in the butter, add milk 
or water to make a stiff batter. Drop from spoon into a 
buttered pan, and bake very quickly. Makes three. 

BRAN BISCUIT, 416 CALORIES i 

% cup wheat bran. 1 teaspoon melted butter. 

% cup improved graham flour. 1 saltspoon salt. 
1 teaspoon Rumford baking pow- Milk, 
der. 

Sift dry ingredients, rub in the butter and add milk to 
make a soft dough. Eoll it out and bake in hot oven. 

BAKING POWDER BISCUIT, 694 CALORIES 

1 cup flour. 1 tablespoon butter or beef drip- 

2 teaspoons Rumford baking ping. 

powder. % cup (scant) milk or water. 

14 teaspoon salt. 

Sift dry ingredients twice, rub in the butter with tips of 
fingers; using knife, stir in gradually the liquid; mix as 
soft as can be handled; put dough on a well-floured board, 
pat lightly to one inch thickness, cut with biscuit cutter, 
put on a shallow buttered tin, heated, and bake in a hot oven. 
Put a little milk on top of each biscuit before baking to 
make them brown well. 

Note. — Dough may be lightly kneaded as for bread, and 
then cut. 

GLUTEN MUFFINS (FOR THE DIABETIC), 755 CALORIES 

1 cup Gum Gluten Self-raising. V2 teaspoon salt. 
1 cup milk, or part water. 1 egg. 

'Without milk. 



254 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

Beat egg and add the milk. Sift the Gluten and salt and 
gradually add the liquid and beat thoroughly. Bake in hot 
buttered gem pans. 

BRAN MUFFINS, 1850 CALORIES 

2 cups bran. V4 cup butter. 

1 cup flour. 3 tablespoons molasses. 

1 teaspoon soda. I14 cups sour milk. 

Mix dry ingredients, rub in the butter with the tips of the 
fingers, add molasses and sour milk, put into hot mufRn tins 
and bake in a hot oven. 

WHITE GEMS, 1627 CALORIES 

2 cups flour. 2 tablespoons butter. 
1 teaspoon salt. 2 tablespoons sugar. 
4 teaspoons Rumford baking 2 eggs. 

powder. 1 cup milk. 

Sift dry ingredients into mixing bowl, add melted butter 
and rub it in with tips of fingers. Add the well-beaten eggs 
and the milk gradually and beat all well together. Have 
gem pans well greased and heated; fill two-thirds full and 
bake in a very hot oven fifteen or twenty minutes. Put a 
little melted butter on each gem before putting it into the 
oven. They are sufficiently cooked when tested with a fine 
washed knitting needle and it comes out dry. 

CORNMEAL GEMS, 1370 CALORIES 

1 cup flour. % teaspoon salt. 

% cup cornmeal. 1 egg. 

Vs cup sugar. 1 cup milk. 

4 teaspoons Eumford baking 1 tablespoon melted butter, 
powder. 

Sift dry ingredients into mixing bowl, add the milk and 
well-beaten egg and the melted butter. Put into well-greased 
hot gems and cook in a quick oven. 

POP-OVERS, 730 CALORIES 
1 egg. Speck salt. 

1 cup milk. 1 cup flour. 



TOAST 255 

Beat egg until very light, add milk and salt and sift in the 
flour very carefully — beat very light, never stirring. Have 
ready gem pans or stone custard cups, well greased and heated. 
Pour in mixture, filling two-thirds full, and bake in quick 
oven. This will make six large pop-overs. The success of 
these pop-overs lies in beating the batter well and in having 
the cups very hot before putting in the mixture. 

Note. — These cannot be cooked successfully in tin. 

BUTTER BALLS 
1 teaspoon butter := 36 Calories. 
Cut butter in small pieces size of balls desired, and put 
in ice-water. Soak the butter paddles in boiling water ten 
minutes, then chill in ice-water. Hold a paddle firmly in 
the left hand and roll each piece of butter with the right 
paddle until round. If butter sticks it must be chilled longer, 
or paddles must be rubbed with salt and reheated. 
One pound of butter will make about thirty balls. 

TOAST 

In ordinary wheat bread, starch is the principal constituent. 
Starch when subjected to a high degree of heat is changed 
into an easily digested substance called dextrin. 

In the ordinary cooking of a loaf of bread the starch, in 
the outer layer is changed into dextrin, which gives the crust 
its sweet flavor. Slices of bread toasted undergo a similar 
change. 

Bread is toasted not merely to brown it, but to take out 
all the moisture possible, so that it may be more thoroughly 
moistened with the saliva, and thus easily digested; also 
to give it a better flavor. The correct way to make toast is 
to use stale bread cut in uniform slices, and to dry it thor- 
oughly before browning. 

Toast prepared in this way, even if moistened with milk 
or water, may be easily and thoroughly acted upon by the 
digestive fluids. 



g56 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

ENERGY VAITTE OF BREAD 

1 slice (1 oz. ) white bread =73 Calories. 

1 slice (1 oz. ) entire wheat bread ^70 Calories. 

1 slice (1 oz.) gluten bread =71 Calories. 

1 small slice (1 oz. ) Boston Brown Bread . . = 64 Calories. 

See Table, page 64, for energy value of other ingredients. 

SIPPETS 
Cut thin slices of bread, and from them make oblongs an 
inch wide by four inches long. Toast carefully so that they 
will not break, and pile on a small bread-plate with doily if 
they are to be served dry. 

TOAST STICKS 

Take a slice of fresh home-made bread (made without short- 
ening), or French bread, cut five-eighths of an inch thick, re- 
move crust and cut in narrow strips. Place on rack in pan, 
and dry and brown in a slow oven. 

CROUTONS 

See chapter " Soup Accompaniments " for recipe. Page 
330. 

GITTTEN CRISP (FOR THE DIABETIC) 

Cut Gum Gluten Bread into thin slices, and dry in slow 
oven until the moistening is thoroughly evaporated, or the 
bread may be cut in cubes and slightly browned. Serve in 
soups or in milk. 

Note. — Gluten Biscuit Crisps, page 261. 

WATER TOAST 

Toast the bread. Dip quickly in boiling salted water (al- 
lowing one-half teaspoon salt to one cup water). Spread 
with butter. Serve on hot plate. 

TOASTED CRACKERS 
1 Saltine=15 Calories. 
Toast oblong crackers daintily, and butter. Serve on plate 
with doily, piled log-cabin fashion. 



TOAST 357 

MILE TOAST, 388 CALORIES 

Put a cup of rich milk in a saucepan and place it on the 
stove. While it is heating, toast three slices of bread to a 
delicate brown. Put them into a covered dish, and when the 
milk is scalding hot, season it with a saltspoon of salt, and 
pour it over the toast. 

Note. — • A little butter may be spread on each slice before 
the milk is added, but it is a more delicate dish without it. 

CBEAK TOAST NO. I, 261 CALORIES 
(Individual Rule.) 
% tablespoon butter. % cup milk. 

% tablespoon flour. 1% slices bread. 

% saltspoon salt. 

Scald the milk. Melt butter, add flour, remove from fire 
and add the milk gradually. Stir over heat constantly until 
smooth, cooking five minutes after blending, or until the 
starch is thoroughly cooked. 

Toast: Eemove crust if desired, cut in oblong pieces and 
toast. Serve on small platter with cream sauce poured over 
it, and garnish with toast points. 

Note. — If you wish the toast very soft, it may be dipped 
very quickly in boiling salted water before adding the cream 
sauce. 

CREAM TOAST NO. II, 261 CALORIES 
% tablespoon butter. 1 tablespoon cold water. 

% tablespoon flour. Va cup milk. 

1/2 saltspoon salt. 1% slices toast. 

Scald milk. Mix flour and salt and add the cold water 
gradually, making a smooth, thin paste. Add to scalded 
milk; cook in double boiler twenty minutes, stirring con- 
stantly until it thickens. Add butter. Pour over toast, and 
serve hot, oji hot platter. 

CELERY TOAST 
4 ounces celery = 12 Calories. 
Clean celery and cut into one-inch pieces; cover with boil- 
ing water and cook until tender ; drain off water. 



258 VEGETABLE OB PLANT FOODS 

Prepare Cream Sauce in Cream Toast No. I; add cooked 
celery and pour on small slices of buttered toast. Garnish 
with toast points. 

FRENCH TOAST (FOR THE DIABETIC), 144 CALORIES i 
% cup milk. Salt. 

1 egg. Gluten bread. 

Beat the egg, add milk and salt; dip into this mixture 
slices of Gum Gluten bread. Saute and brown in a little 
butter. 

CLAM BROTH AND TOAST 

Follow directions as for Milk or Cream Toast, adding sufiB- 
cient Clam Broth (to taste) to the Sauce, and pour over toast. 
Serve hot. 

SANDWICHES 
TO PREPARE SANDWICHES 

Use white, entire wheat, graham, gluten or Boston brown 
bread. Bread may be buttered before cutting from loaf, 
spread with soft, plain butter cut into very thin slices, cover 
with another slice, press together, cut in fancy shapes, or 
roll. AVrap in waxed paper or cover with a dry napkin, 
over which place a slightly moistened one, until ready to 
serve. 

Bread may be baked purposely for sandwiches by filling 
one-half pound baking powder boxes half full of dough, let 
rise and bake. Serve sandwiches on a dainty doily on a 
small plate. 

ENERGY VALUE OF BREAD 



1 slice (1 oz. ) white bread =73 Calories. 

1 slice (1 oz. ) entire wheat bread ^70 Calories. 

1 slice (1 oz.) gluten bread ^71 Calories. 

1 small slice (1 oz. ) Boston Brown Bread . . = 64 Calories. 

1 teaspoon butter =: 36 Calories. 

See Table, page 64, for energy value of other ingredients. 

* Calculated -without bread. 



SANDWICHES 359 

BREAD AND BUTTER SANDWICHES 

Butter bread slightly, cut very thin and put slices to- 
gether. Cut in fancy shapes. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD SANDWICHES 

Steam Boston brown bread in one-half pound baking pow- 
der cans. Butter and cut in thin slices and add a thin round 
of white bread. The combination of the two makes a pleas- 
ing variety. 

CHEESK SANDWICHES 
Chop stufEed olives fine and add equal quantity of cream 
cheese and spread on bread and butter sandwiches. A lettuce 
leaf may be added if desired. 

CHICKEN SANDWICHES 

Chop cold boiled chicken, add mayonnaise dressing and 
spread on bread and butter sandwiches. 

Or, instead of mayonnaise, moisten with strong chicken 
broth and season with salt and pepper. Minced celery may 
be added. 

EGG SANDWICHES 

See chapter " Eggs " for recipe. Page 183. 

FRTJIT SANDWICHES 

Spread bread and butter sandwiches with stewed dates, 
figs or prunes, seasoned with a little lemon juice or chop 
dates, raisins and nuts very fine and moisten with " Cream 
Dressing." See page 274. 

lETTTJCE SANDWICHES 
Spread bread and butter sandwiches with a little mayon- 
naise dressing, lay in fresh, crisp lettuce leaves washed and 
dried thoroughly, and cut even. 

NTIT SANDWICHES 
Prepare same as lettuce sandwiches, adding chopped nuts 
to the mayonnaise. 



260 VEGETABLE OB PLANT FOODS 

PEPTONOIDS SANDWICHES 

Cut slices of bread in fancy shapes, butter and spread with 
layer of Dry Peptonoids Soluble, adding salt, pepper, paprika 
or celery salt, if desired. 

Note. — Dry Peptonoids Soluble may be blended with 
mayonnaise dressing, cream, chopped nuts or eggs, for filling. 

KAW BEEF SANDWICHES 
See chapter " Beef Preparations " for recipe. Page 317. 

SARDINE SANDWICHES 
Eemove oil and bones from canned sardines. Mix with 
Boiled Dressing (page 273) to form a paste and spread. 
Chopped olives or gherkins may be added. 

CRACKEES — WAFERS 

BRAN CRACKERS, 1513 CALORIES i 

1% cups wheat bran. % teaspoon salt. 

1% cups sifted flour. 4 tablespoons butter. 

1 teaspoon cream of tartar. Milk. 

% teaspoon soda. 

Blend all ingredients, using enough cold milk to make a 
stiff dough. Eoll to one-eighth inch thickness and cut with 
a small biscuit cutter. Great care is needed in baking that 
they do not burn and at the same time that they are thor- 
oughly cooked. 

They keep well a long time if put in a tin box. 
They should be eaten at each meal if needed as purgative 
medicine. 

GLUTEN CRACKERS (FOR THE DIABETIC), 2555 CALORIES 
1 pound Gum Gluten Flour. Sweetina. 

l^ pound butter. Cold water. 

Salt. 

J Without milk. 



CRACKERS — WAFERS 361 

Mix thoroughly the Gum Gluten Flour with the butter, 
add salt and Sweetina to taste. Add cold water to make a 
soft dough. Toss on floured board, roll thin, cut into shape, 
bake. 

GITTTEN WAFERS (FOR THE DIABETIC) 
14 cup thick cream = 432 Cal- Gum Gluten Flour (1 cup ^513 

ories. Calories ) . 

1 saltspoon salt. 

Add salt to the cream and add the Gluten gradually to 
make a stifE dough. Toss on a floured board and roll as 
thinly as possible and cut in strips with sharp knife or shape 
with a cutter. Bake in a buttered sheet in a slow oven until 
delicately browned. 

GITJTEN BISCUIT CRISPS (FOR THE DIABETIC) 

1 biscuit crisp = 25 Calories. 
Gum Gluten Biscuit Crisps may be served plain, or but- 
tered and heated slightly in oven. 

GLUTEN CHEESE WAFERS (FOR THE DIABETIC), 882 CALORIES 

1 cup Gum Gluten Flour. Yolks 2 eggs. 

3 tablespoons cream. 1 saltspoon salt. 

3 tablespoons grated cheese. Nutmeg. 

Mix in order given, roll thin and bake. 



VEGETABLES — VEGETABLE SAUCES 

LEGUMES — ROOTS AND TUBERS — GREEN VEGETABLES 
Vegetables include nearly all kinds of plant food except 
fruits, grains and nuts. 

Classification. Vegetables are classified as — 
Legumes — as peas, beans and lentils. 
Eoots and Tubers — as potatoes, beets, turnips, etc. 
Green Vegetables — as lettuce, spinach, celery, etc. 
Composition. All vegetables have a high percentage of 
water, and with the exception of legumes, a relatively small 
proportion of protein. The chief nutrients are starch and 



262 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

sugar. The fats are usually small in amount and chiefly in 
the form of oils. A variety of mineral salts are present, 
chiefly salts of potash and soda united with organic acids, 
^'egetables give bulk to food and possess antiscorbutic prop- 
erties. 

Digestibility. As the gastric ferments play no part in 
carbohydrate digestion, vegetables are digested mainly in the 
intestines. The presence of cellulose prevents the ready di- 
gestion of the nutrients, hence it may be stated as a general 
rule that vegetable food is less completely digested and ab- 
sorbed than animal food. It would seem desirable to restrict 
this type of food for persons of very weak digestive powers. 

General Rules for Coohing Vegetalles. Wash thoroughly; 
pare, peel, or scrape, according to the kind. Let them stand 
in cold water until ready to cook, to keep them crisp, to 
freshen them when wilted, or to prevent them from turning 
dark. 

Cook in enough freshly boiling salted water to cover, and 
keep the water boiling (not rapid boiling, as tender vegetables 
are easily broken). Allow one teaspoon of salt to one quart 
of water. Salt may be added when vegetables are put in, 
except in the case of delicate green vegetables, as peas, 
spinach, etc., when it should not be added until nearly done. 
To preserve the color, cook green vegetables uncovered. 

Vegetables should be cooked only until tender, drained im- 
mediately, and served promptly. Overcooking injures their 
flavor and makes them tough. Time for cooking vegetables 
varies with the size, age and freshness. 

Legumes. Of this class of food-stufEs, peas and beans are 
the most important. Lentils and peanuts are also valuable, 
but less widely used. 

Composition. Fresh legumes, such as peas and beans, con- 
tain from 2 per cent, to 9 per cent, of protein, a trace of fat 
and from 7 per cent, to 30 per cent, of carbohydrate. 

Dried legumes, such as dried peas and beans, on account 
of the lessened amount of water, contain from 18 per cent, to 
35 per cent, of protein, over 1 per cent, fat, and as high as 



VEGETABLES 363 

65 per cent, carbohydrate. They form one of the chief sources 
of protein in a strictly vegetarian diet. 

Digestibility. Digestibility depends largely upon the 
method of cooking and the amount eaten. The more the 
cellulose is softened or removed, the more completely they 
are utilized. Legumes are apt to produce fermentation, 
which causes flatulence and gastro-intestinal disturbance. 
They are more suitable for those leading an active outdoor 
life than for invalids, convalescents, or those of sedentary 
habits. 

Principles of Cooking. The attractiveness and digestibility 
of dried legumes depends very greatly on proper cooking. 
Hard water must not be used, as it makes them hard and 
unpalatable, and causes a considerable loss of protein. 
"Water softened by boiling is more desirable than that soft- 
ened by baking soda. When cooked in the former, the dried 
legumes, especially beans, keep their shape better, are only 
very slightly colored yellow, and are more mealy, conse- 
quently more digestible, as the digestive juices can more 
easily mingle with the particles of the food. 

Roots and Tubers. Boots and tubers contain the reserve 
material stored up by the plant, and some of them are among 
the important food-stuffs. Their nutritive value is largely 
due to starch and sugar. On account of the small proportion 
of protein and fat, and the large proportion of water, they 
are inferior in nutritive value to both legumes and cereals. 
The mineral matter is an important constituent of these, as 
of other vegetable foods. Sodium, potassium and iron salts, 
and sulphur and phosphorus compounds, are the common ash 
constituents. In combination with organic acids, etc., they 
contribute much to the flavor of these foods. 

As a class they may be divided into the following groups : 

1. Starch-yielding vegetables, as potatoes and sweet pota- 
toes. 

2. Succulent roots, as beets, carrots, parsnips and onions. 

3. Condimental or flavoring roots, as horse-radish and gin- 
ger. 



364 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

The potato is the most important of the starch-yielding 
class of vegetables. It is a tuber or thickened underground 
stem. 

The composition of the potato (Letheby) is as follows : 

Water 75.00 per cent. 

Starch 18.80 per cent. 

Nitrogenous matter 2.00 per cent. 

Sugar 3.00 per cent. 

Fat 20 per cent. 

When pared before cooking, there may be a considerable 
loss of nutritive material, especially of mineral matter. By 
cooking in the skin, this loss is largely prevented. To be 
easily digestible, a potato must be mealy, so as to be readily 
acted on by digestive juices. This is best accomplished by 
baking in an oven at 380 to 4.00° F. When a patient begins 
to take solids, the vegetable usually first prescribed is a baked 
potato. 

Beets, carrots, parsnips, salsify, turnips and onions are 
the most common of the class of succulent roots. They con- 
tain, as a rule, more water than the starch-yielding class of 
vegetables, and their carbohydrates are frequently in the form 
of sugars, pectins, and other polysaccharide carbohydrates 
than true starch, some of which have no nutritive value. The 
percentage of crude fiber is greater than in the starch-yield- 
ing class. 

The characteristic flavors and odors are in many cases due 
to the presence of volatile organic compounds of sulphur. 
These are often advantageous in making the vegetables pal- 
atable, and adding variety to the diet. 

The beet contains a large percentage of starch and sugar. 

Carrots and parsnips also contain much sugar, and when 
young and tender form a very nutritious food. 

Onions contain considerable nutriment, but are most val- 
uable for their pungent oil, which is rich in sulphur. They 
have diuretic properties, and are useful in constipation. 

Radishes contain a large amount of cellulose and should 
not be eaten by invalids. They are chiefly used as a relish. 



VEGETABLES 265 

Green Vegetables. These vegetables have a fuel value of 
less than 200 calories per pound; they are useful chiefly for 
their mineral salts, and for the bulk, variety and relish they 
give to the diet. 

Asparagus is easily digested, even by invalids. It has a 
diuretic action, and imparts a characteristic odor to the urine 
for some hours. 

Cabbage contains considerable sulphur and therefore fre- 
quently causes flatulence. 

Cauliflower belongs to the cabbage family, but is easily 
digested. 

Celery is more digestible cooked than raw. 

Spinach is especially valuable for its large amount of iron. 

ENERGY VAITJE OP THE POTATO 

1 medium potato (3% ozs.) =83 Calories. 
See Table, page 64, for energy value of other ingredients. 

BOILED POTATOES 

Select potatoes of uniform size. "Wash, pare and put into 
cold water to keep from discoloring. Put them into sauce- 
pan, cover with boiling water, boil and when partly cooked, 
add one tablespoon salt to every six potatoes. Cook until 
soft, about twenty-five to thirty minutes, drain very dry, and 
shake the pan, without a cover, gently over the stove till 
the potatoes are mealy. Do not serve in covered dish. 

BICED POTATOES 

Add salt and pepper to boiled potatoes, and rub them 
through a heated potato-ricer or squash-strainer into the (hot) 
dish they are to be served in. Serve immediately, or pour 
a little milk over the top and brown in the oven. 

MASHED POTATOES, 305 CALORIES 

For mashed potatoes the uneven sizes may be used; the 
larger ones should be cut, so all will be of uniform size. 
Prepare as for boiled potatoes. When cooked and dried, add 
salt, butter, pepper and cream in following proportion : 



266 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

1 pint potatoes. % saltspoon white pepper. 

% teaspoon salt. 2 teaspoons hot cream or milk. 

1 tablespoon butter. 

To the potatoes add the salt, pepper and butter, and mash, 
leaving them in saucepan cooked in, and on stove so as to 
keep them hot. Use open-wire masher or fork and beat 
quickly, so they may be light and dry, not " gummy." Lastly 
put in the cream, beat for a moment and serve immediately. 

POTATO CAKES 

Prom cold mashed potatoes make slightly flattened balls. 
Put them in a floured tin, brush each over with milk and 
bake in a hot oven five minutes, or till a delicate brown. 

Note. — ■ These cakes may be sauteed in a little beef fat or 
butter if desired. 

STTRPRISE BAIIS 

Eoll the potatoes into balls as above, and with a teaspoon 
press a hollow in the top. Chop fine some cold, lean meat, 
season it with salt, pepper and gravy and put one teaspoon 
of the meat into the hollow of the potato ball. Put a little 
milk or melted butter on top and brown in oven or saute. 

BAKED POTATOES 

Select potatoes of uniform size, not very large, wash and 
scrub thoroughly, cut ofl; a small piece at each end in order 
that the steam may escape. Bake in hot oven from forty-five 
to fifty minutes. When baked break open slightly, that steam 
may escape, and serve on folded napkin. 

POTATOES BAKED IN THE HALF SHELL 

Cut off top of baked potato and scoop out inside. Mash 
and season well as for mashed potatoes and add the well- 
beaten white of egg. Pill the skins with the mixture, heap- 
ing it lightly on top, brush over with milk or slightly beaten 
white of egg and brown slightly. Potatoes may be sprinkled 
with grated cheese before putting into oven. 



VEGETABLES 267 

POTATOES AU GRATIN 

Cut cold boiled potatoes into cubes and put into a buttered 
baking dish. Cover with white sauce, put buttered cracker 
or bread crumbs on top and bake until golden brown. 

Note. — A little grated cheese added to the White Sauce 
just before pouring over the potatoes adds a pleasant flavor. 

CREAMED POTATOES, 180 CALORIES 
1 cup cold sliced or cubed po- 14 teaspoon salt. 

tatoes. 14 teaspoon finely chopped pars- 

l^ cup milk. ley. 

% tablespoon butter. Speck white pepper. 

Heat the milk, add the potatoes, and cook until they have 
nearly absorbed the milk. Add butter and seasoning, cook 
five minutes longer, add parsley and serve hot. 

POTATO BALLS 

Prom large potatoes cut balls with a French potato cutter 
and throw them into cold water. Cook for twelve minutes 
or more in enough boiling water to cover. Salt at end of 
six minutes. Drain and let them stand a few minutes to 
dry. Serve as a vegetable, with cream sauce, or with parsley 
butter, or use as a garnish for broiled fish. Test potatoes 
with a needle to see when tender. 

Note. — Make mashed potatoes from frames left after cut- 
ting out the balls. 

PARSLEY BUTTER, 358 CALORIES 

1 tablespoon butter. Juice % lemon. 

1 teaspoon chopped parsley. 1 pint potato balls. 

Cream the butter, add lemon juice and chopped parsley. 
Add to the hot potato balls, heat five minutes and serve. 
Omit lemon jiiice if desired. 

ASPARAGUS 

1/^ bunch asparagus ^60 Calories. 

i slice toast (1 oz.) =73 Calories. 

Boiled Asparagus. Prepare asparagus by cutting off lower 
part of stalk at the point at which they will snap. Wash, 



268 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

remove scales and tie together or cut into one inch pieces 
Cook in boiling salted water until soft, twenty to thirty-five 
minutes. As the tips are more tender keep them out of water 
the first ten minutes of the cooking. Drain, place in hot 
serving dish, spread with one-half teaspoon butter and sprin- 
kle with salt. 

Asparagus on Toast. Serve boiled asparagus on buttered 
toast, moistened with a little of the liquid the asparagus is 
cooked in. 

Cream Asparagus, Plain or on Toast. Pour Cream Sauce 
No. I over boiled asparagus and serve hot, or serve boiled 
asparagus on toast and pour Cream Sauce N"o. I over same. 

CARROTS 
1 small carrot (2 ozs.) =20 Calories. 

Boiled Carrots. Wash, scrub and scrape off the very thin 
skin. Cut each carrot into slices from one-fourth to one- 
fifth inch thick, cut into cubes and cook in boiling salted 
water until soft, forty-five to sixty minutes. They may be 
served plain with a little melted butter, salt and pepper, or 
they may be mashed and seasoned as above. 

Creamed Carrots. Pour Creamed Sauce No. I over boiled 
cubed carrot, reheat and serve. 

CATTIIFLOWER 

1 serving (4 ozs.) =35 Calories. 
Boiled Cauliflower. Cut off stalk and remove leaves of 
cauliflower. Soak thirty minutes in cold water to cover, head 
down. Cook, head up, twenty to thirty minutes, or until soft, 
in boiling salted water. Drain and separate flowerets. 

Creamed Cauliflower. Pour Cream Sauce No. I over boiled 
cauliflower, reheat and serve. 

CELERY 
1 serving (2 ozs.) =6 Calories. 
Scrape celery. Cut stalks in one-half inch pieces and 
cook uncovered in boiling salted water twenty to thirty min- 
utes. Serve with Cream Sauce No. I poured over it. Sauce 



YEGETABLES 269 

can be made using part milk and part water in which celery 
was cooked. 

SPINACH — DANDELIONS — BEET GREENS 
1 serving (4 ozs.) =27 Calories. 
Eemove roots, pick over carefully (discarding wilted leaves) 
and wash thoroughly in many waters until free from sand; 
cook in boiling salted water, allowing one-fourth as much 
water as greens. Cook twenty-five to thirty minutes. Drain 
and chop if desired, reheat, season with butter and salt; gar- 
nish with slices of hard-cooked egg. Serve with vinegar. 

ONIONS 

1 serving (4 ozs.) =56 Calories. 

Boiled Onions. Put onions into pan of cold water and peel 
under water. Put them into boiling water with one teaspoon 
salt and one-fourth teaspoon soda to one quart water. After 
cooking five minutes pour ofE the water and add fresh boiling 
salted water, and after ten minutes change the water again. 
Boil until tender — ■ forty-five to sixty minutes. Drain off 
the water and add a little milk, cook a few moments and add 
butter, salt and pepper. 

Creamed Onions. Pour Cream Sauce No. I over boiled 
onions, reheat and serve. 

Scalloped Onions. Place onions in a baking dish and add 
Cream Sauce No. I. Cover top with buttered cracker of 
bread crumbs and bake until crumbs are a golden brown. 

PEAS (GREEN OR CANNED) 
1 serving (4 ozs.) =114 Calories. 
Green Peas. Eemove peas from pods, cover with cold 
water and let stand one-half hour. Skim off small peas that 
come to the top and drain remaining peas. Cook until soft, 
thirty to forty-five minutes, in a small quantity of water. 
There should be little or no water to drain from peas when 
they are cooked. A small quantity of sugar may be added 
if the natural sweetness of the peas has been lost. Season 
with butter and salt. 



370 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

Canned Peas should be drained and thoroughly rinsed, 
cover with boiling water, boil two minutes and again drain, 
then add a small quantity of boiling water and cook from 
five to ten minutes. Season with butter, salt and pepper. 

Creamed Peas No. I. To one-third cup of cooked peas 
add one teaspoon of flour mixed with one-eighth teaspoon of 
sugar. Cook slightly and add one tablespoon of cream, and 
salt and pepper to taste. = 75 calories. 

Creamed Peas No. II. Pour Cream Sauce N"o. I over 
drained cooked peas, reheat and serve. 

STRING BEANS 
1 serving (4 ozs.) =44 Calories. 

Eemove strings from beans and cut or snap into one inch 
pieces. Wash and cook in boiling water until tender (one 
to three hours). Drain and season with butter and salt. 
Cook beans in as little water as possible. Select fresh beans 
that will snap easily. 

STEWED TOMATOES 

1 medium tomato := 16 Calories. 

1 eup canned tomato ^51 Calories. 

Canned or fresh tomatoes may be used. To prepare fresh 
tomatoes wash, pour boiling water over them and then peel 
and cut into pieces, put in saucepan and cook slowly twenty 
minutes, stirring occasionally. Add a few bread or cracker 
crumbs and season with butter, salt and pepper. Bread and 
cracker crumbs may be omitted. A little sugar may be added 
if tomatoes are very acid. 

BAKED TOMATOES 
1 medium tomato = 16 Calories. 
"Wash, dry and remove a thin slice from stem end of to- 
mato. Eemove seeds and pulp, and drain off most of the 
liquid; to the pulp add an equal quantity of cracker crumbs, 
season with salt and pepper and a little chopped onion, or a 
few drops of onion juice. EefiU tomatoes with mixture and 



VEGETABLE SAUCES 371 

place in a buttered tin; sprinkle with buttered cracker 
crumbs, bake twenty to thirty minutes in a hot oven. 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES (FOB, THE DIABETIC), 165 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
1 large ripe tomato. 3 Gum Gluten Biscuit Crisps. 

Salt, pepper. 2 teaspoons butter. 

Into a well-buttered individual baking dish place one 
crushed Biscuit Crisp; and place on top of this one-half 
the tomato, from which the skin has been removed and then 
cut in small pieces ; season well with salt, pepper and bits of 
butter. Add another layer of crumbs (one crushed Biscuit 
Crisp), then the remaining tomato and seasoning, lastly 
crumbs. Place bits of butter on top, put in slow oven and 
bake twenty to thirty minutes. 

VEGETABLE SAUCES 

CREAM OR WHITE SAUCE NO. I, 152 CALORIES i 

Use to pour over any vegetable. 
(Individual Rule.) 

% cup milk or thin cream. ^A saltspoon salt. 

% tablespoon butter. Speck white pepper. 

% tablespoon flour. 

Scald the milk. Melt the butter in a saucepan, remove 
from stove, add the flour, then the scalding milk gradually, 
put over heat and cook, stirring constantly, until smooth 
and there is no raw taste of starch. 

This sauce may be used in many ways — with creamed oys- 
ters, sweetbreads, any cream dish or any scalloped dish. If 
a thick sauce is desired, use one tablespoon of flour in place 
of one-half. 

CREAM SATJCE NO. II, 134 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
1/2 cup milk or thin cream. 1 teaspoon butter. 

1/2 tablespoon flour. Vs teaspoon salt. 

1 Calculated with milk. 



273 VEGETABLE OB PLANT FOODS 

Scald the cream. Wet the flour with a little cold milk to 
make a smooth mixture, and add to the hot cream. Cook 
well. Just before serving add the butter and salt, and pep- 
per if desired. 

Sauce blended in this way is especially easy of digestion. 
If a thick sauce is desired, use one tablespoon of flour in place 
of oqe-half. 

SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 

The salad plants, such as lettuce, celery, water cress, en- 
dives, etc., contain little nutriment, but are especially rich 
in mineral matter, and served uncooked in the form of salad, 
all this mineral matter is preserved. They are very valuable, 
as these mineral substances are necessary for the healthy 
condition of the blood and should form a large part of the 
daily diet. 

Salads should not be eaten by dyspeptics or those having 
delicate bowels. 

Salads should be prepared daintily, arranged attractively 
and always be served cold. Lettuce and other salad plants 
should be fresh, crisp, and dry. Wash thoroughly, on account 
of danger of germs from dust, soil, etc., chill in very cold 
water until crisp and dry by placing on a clean towel so that 
the water will drain from the leaves; or fold lightly in a 
towel and place on ice until serving time. Parsley is re- 
vived quickly by sprinkling with cold water and putting it 
into an air-tight fruit jar and keeping it in a cold place. 
Treated in this way it will keep fresh a long time. 

Dressing should not be added to green vegetables until 
just before serving, as it tends to wilt them. 

Meat to be used in salads should be free from skin and 
gristle, and should be cut into small cubes, mixed with French 
dressing and allowed to stand some time before combining 
with the vegetables. 

A dainty salad served with a crisp cracker or cheese wafer 



SALAD DRESSING 373 

forms an acceptable luncheon for the convalescent. It may 
also be served with dinner. 

FRENCH DRESSING, 270 CALORIES 
(Individual Eule, % of Recipe.) 

1 tablespoon vinegar. % teaspoon salt. 

2 tablespoons Nicelle olive oil. % saltspoon pepper. 

Mix all ingredients thoroughly and pour over salad just 
before serving. 

BOILED DRESSING, 483 CALORIES 
(Individual Eule, % of Recipe.) 

1 teaspoon salt. 1 egg. 

Yg teaspoon mustard. % cup milk. 

Speck cayenne. 2 tablespoons butter. 

2 tablespoons sugar. y^ cup vinegar. 

Mix all dry ingredients. Beat egg in double boiler, add 
dry ingredients, butter and milk; cook over hot water, stir- 
ring constantly until thick like custard; add vinegar; cool 
and serve. 

Note. — If it curdles, beat over cold water until smooth. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING, 2S70 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule, % of Recipe.) 

1 teaspoon mustard. Yolks 2 eggs. 

2 teaspoons powdered sugar. 1% cups Nicelle olive oil. 
1 teaspoon salt. 2 tablespoons vinegar. 
Speck cayenne. 2 tablespoons lemon juice. 

Mix dry ingredients, add to yolks and mix thoroughly. 
Add a few drops of oil at a time until one-half cup is used, 
beating with egg-beater or wooden spoon. Then add al- 
ternately a few drops of vinegar and lemon juice and the 
remainder of the oil, using care not to lose the stiS con- 
sistency. It should be a thick dressing and not added to 
food until just before serving. 

Note. — Have all ingredients and utensils thoroughly 
chilled and place mixing bowl in a pan of crushed ice while 
blending. 



274 VEGETABLE OB PLANT FOODS 

If dressing curdles, take another egg yolk and add the 
curdled mixture to it slowly, beating constantly. 

Note. — One-half or one-fourth of recipe may be prepared. 
As it will keep well it is best to prepare in larger quantity, 
thus saving labor. 

CBEAM DRESSING, 1697 CALORIES 
(For Fruit Salads.) 
% cup butter. 1 teaspoon mustard. 

2 tablespoons flour. 1 tablespoon cider vinegar. 

1 cup scalded milk. 1 teaspoon salt. 

3 yolks of eggs. % cup vinegar. 
3 whites of eggs. % cup sugar. 

(a) Melt butter in a saucepan, add flour and pour on 
gradually the scalding milk, cook thoroughly, stirring con- 
stantly. (6) Beat yolks in top of double boiler, add the 
mustard (dissolved in one tablespoon of vinegar), salt and 
vinegar. Pour (a) gradually on the egg mixture and cook 
over hot water until it thickens like soft custard, remove from 
fire, add the sugar and fold in the stiffly-beaten white of eggs. 
Pour into glass fruit jar, cool and cover and keep on ice. 
This dressing will keep a long time and is especially delicious 
to serve with fruit salads. 

CHICKEN SALAD, 856 CALORIES 

(Six Servings.) 

2 cups cut chicken. % saltspoon pepper. 

1 cup cut celery. 1 tablespoon vinegar. 

2 tablespoons Nicelle olive oil. 2 tablespoons mayonnaise. 
1 saltspoon salt. 

Mayonnaise, olives, celery leaves or white lettuce for gar- 
nishing. 

Cut the cold chicken into small dice ; cut the cleaned celery 
into small uniform pieces. Mix these together and pour over 
the oil. Mix well, then sprinkle with salt and pepper to 
taste; add the vinegar, blend and put in colander to drain; 
set in a cold place for two or three hours. Just before serv- 
ing add the mayonnaise, put on a bed of lettuce and garnish. 

Note. — Do not mince chicken. 



SALADS 275 

FBTJIT SALADS 

Any combination of fruit desired may be used served with 
" Cream Dressing." An attractive combination is a banana 
peeled, cut in half crosswise. Cut one-half lengthwise, ar- 
range on lettuce leaf, add a little Cream Dressing and gar- 
nish with malaga grapes (cut in half and seeded) and small 
pieces of English walnuts. 

MARGUEBITE SALAD 

One hard-cooked egg cut crosswise. Eemove yolk. Cut 
white in slices, petal fashion, arrange on lettuce leaf like a 
marguerite and fill the center with the yolk put through the 
potato-ricer or strainer. Garnish with parsley and serve 
with French, boiled or mayonnaise dressing. 

UIXED SALAD 
Equal proportions of green peas (cooked and drained), 
celery cut in thin slices and English walnuts cut into small 
pieces. Season with salt and pepper, add mayonnaise and 
serve on lettuce leaves. Garnish with ripe cherries on the 
stem with blanched hazel nuts put in place of stones. 

SWEETBBEAD SALAD 

Mix equal parts of parboiled sweetbreads cut into one-half 
inch cubes and celery cut into thin slices. Season with salt 
and moisten with mayonnaise dressing. Arrange daintily 
on lettuce leaves. 

TOSIATO SALAD 

Take some medium sized tomatoes, cover with boiling 
water, remove skin and put in refrigerator until ready to 
serve. Then cut off top of tomato, scoop out a part of the 
inside and fill with finely cut celery mixed with boiled dress- 
ing or with mayonnaise. Serve tomato on lettuce leaf and 
garnish with sprig of parsley. 

WALDORF SALAD 

Mix equal parts of apples, pared and cut into small cubes, 
celery sliced in thin circles and English walnuts cut into 



276 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

small pieces. Season with salt and moisten with mayonnaise. 
Serve on lettuce leaf, garnished with a spoonful of whipped 
cream and halves of English walnuts or pecans. 

WATER LILY SALAD 

One hard-cooked egg. Cut in halves crosswise in fence 
fashion; remove yolk, put through strainer and refill white. 
Serve on shredded lettuce leaves and garnish with parsley. 
Serve with French, boiled or mayonnaise dressing. 

CHEESE WAEERS 
Butter wafer crackers and sprinkle thickly with grated 
cheese. Put in oven and bake till cheese is melted and crack- 
ers are a delicate brown. Arrange on small plate with doily. 
Serve with salad. 

CHEESE GLUTEN BISCTTIT CRISPS (FOR THE DIABETIC) 

Put grated cheese on Gum Gluten Biscuit Crisps, place in 
moderate oven until the cheese is melted. Serve while hot. 
Gum Gluten Biscuit Crisps may be spread with cream cheese 
and served with salad. 

FRTJITSi 

Fruits are the seed-bearing portions of plants. Some 
products of this class, such as melons, are sometimes called 
fruits and sometimes vegetables ; and a few vegetable products 
which are not fruits in the strict sense, are included in this 
class of food products because they have a similar place in 
the diet. 

Composition. Fresh fruits contain a high percentage of 
water, varying from about 75 per cent, to over 95 per cent. 
It has been suggested that those containing 80 per cent, or 
more of water be classed as flavor fruits, and those with less 
than 80 per cent, as food fruits: Bananas, grapes and fresh 
figs are the commonest examples of the latter class. When 
the water is removed by evaporation, as in drying, the per- 

^ For further information, note " Uses of Fruit as Food." Farmer's Bulle- 
tin No. 293, U. S. Dept. of Agriculture, Washington, D. C. 



FRUITS 277 

centage of moisture falls to 30 per cent, or less, and the 
proportion of nutrients is correspondingly raised, so that 
dried fruits would fall into the class of food fruits. Pre- 
served fruits have their nutritive value raised by the addition 
of water, and usually by some loss of water in preparation. 

As a class, fruits contain little or no fat. The olive is a 
remarkable exception. 

The proportion of psotein is so low as to be practically 
negligible. 

Carbohydrates are the chief nutrient present. In ripe 
fruits these are almost wholly in the form of sugars and other 
soluble carbohydrates, commonly called pectin bodies. In 
unripe fruits starch is often found — notably in the ordinary 
banana. The principal sugars are sucrose or cane sugar, dex- 
trose or grape sugar, and levulose or fruit sugar. A mix- 
ture of the last two is common, and is called invert sugar. 

Fruits contain characteristic organic acids, such as malic 
in apples, citric in lemons, etc. These acids exist in the form 
of salts, usually of potassium. A little phosphoric acid, lime, 
iron, etc., also occur. 

The flavor is due partly to the sugars and acids, and partly 
to characteristic ethereal bodies present in small quantities. 
Chemists have isolated the ethers and oils which give the 
peculiar flavor to bananas, strawberries and other fruits. 

Digestibility. Digestibility of fruits varies with the kind 
of fruit eaten and its mode of preparation ; stewed fruits are 
more easily digested than raw fruits. Personal idiosyncracy 
has also much to do with digestibility in case of this class 
of food materials. Oranges, lemons, grapes and peaches are 
very generally digested with ease. Oranges are much used 
in invalid dietaries, their juice being very effective in allay- 
ing thirst. Orange Juice is also commonly administered to 
infants, especially if fed artiflcially, for the sake of the min- 
eral matter and to prevent constipation. 

It is important to those who are obliged to exclude sugar 
from the dietary to know that fruits containing the least 
sugar are the plum, peach, apricot and raspberry. Those 



278 



VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 



containing the largest amounts are the apple, sweet cherry, 
grape and pear. 

The apple exerts a most excellent iniliience upon the liver 
and kidneys, and is valuable in cases of acidity of the stom- 
ach. 

The juice of the ripe pineapple contains a remarkable ac- 
tive digestive principle, similar to pepsin, termed bromelin, 
and so povi^erful is its action upon proteids that it will digest 
as much as one thousand times its weight within a few hours. 
It is especially valuable in diphtheria and diabetes. 

Figs and prunes are valuable for inactivity of the liver 
and most excellent laxatives. 

The banana contains a large amount of starch, as much as 
the potato ; therefore it should not be eaten in an unripe state. 
For invalids and children and others of delicate digestion, it 
should always be cooked. 

Grape juice and other freshly expressed juices are refresh- 
ing and wholesome beverages, and can often be given to in- 
valids when the pulp would prove irritating. 

Nutritive Value. Fresh friiits are chiefly valuable for 
their refreshing, appetizing qualities, and for their mineral 
constituents. The organic acids form carbonates in the body, 
and by their alkalinity assist in the regulation of body 
processes. 

In disturbed conditions of metabolism it is often important 
to know just what salts and acids fruits contain. 

As already stated, the chief nutrients are carbohydrates. 
In fuel value, fresh fruits resemble given vegetables, as is 
shown by the following figures : 



Kind of Fresh Fruit. Calories 
Per. 
Pound. 

Apples 290 

Blackberries 270 

Oranges 240 

Peaches 190 



Kind of Green Calories 

Vegetables. Per. 

Pound. 

Beans, string, fresh 195 

Beets, fresh 215 

Carrots, fresh 210 

Onions, fresh 205 



FRUITS 279 

The dried fruits compare favorably with bread, dried beans 
and similar foods as to energy value, but the latter contain 
protein in considerable amounts, while in fruits it occurs only 
in small quantities. The fuel value of fruits is often in- 
creased by the sugar added in cooking or serving. 

Fruits are also valuable for bulk, which is an essential 
factor in diet. Most of them contain a considerable propor- 
tion of indigestible matter. Intelligently used, fruits are a 
valuable part of a well-balanced diet, and their use should 
be encouraged. 

Precautions in the Use of Fruit. Over-ripe or unripe fruit 
should not be eaten raw; besides inferior flavor there is dan- 
ger of digestive disturbance. 

Before serving, all fruit should be thoroughly washed to 
avoid germs. Digestive disturbances are more often caused 
by these germs than by the fruit itself. There is danger 
also of acquiring harmful intestinal parasites from raw 
fruits; in all doubtful cases, the food should be cooked. 

BAKED APPLES 
1 medium apple = 70 Calories. 
Wipe and core apples. Put in a shallow dish with one 
tablespoon water to each apple; more may be added during 
cooking if necessary, put into the center of each apple two 
teaspoons sugar. Bake in a hot oven twenty to thirty min- 
utes, or until soft; baste with the syrup every ten minutes. 
A little nutmeg may be added to the sugar, and a few drops 
of lemon juice to each apple. Care must be taken that apples 
do not lose their shape and break. 

STEWED APPLE SAUCE, 90 CALORIES 
Wash, pare, core and slice one apple; put in saucepan and 
add one teaspoon sugar and enough boiling water to partly 
cover. Cover and cook slowly without stirring until trans- 
parent and tender. Appetizing to serve with any breakfast 
food. 

Pears and peaches may be cooked in the same way. 



280 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

APPLES CTIBAN STYLE 

Pare and core sound, tart apples. Steam until almost ten- 
der; remove to a buttered pan; fill cavities with cocoanut, 
stick apples full of blanched almonds, baste with syrup made 
of sugar, water and lemon juice. Finish cooking in a hot 
oven, basting often. When serving, fill the cavities with 
jelly or the jellied juice. 

APRICOT AND PRUNE SATJCE, 178 CALORIES i 

y^ cup prunes. 1 cup cold water. 

14 cup dried apricots. Sugar to taste. 

Wash fruit carefully; soak over night and cook slowly for 
two hours. If cooked properly the fruit will need very little 
sugar, as the sugar in the fruit is developed by this method 
of cooking. 

BAKES BANANA 
1 medium banana = 64 Calories. 

Eaw, this fruit is often indigestible, but baked it acts as 
a stimulant to the nerves, being at once received and rapidly 
assimilated by the stomach. Cut bananas in halves; put in 
shallow pan ; sprinkle with sugar and a little lemon juice and 
bake until soft. 

Note. — The banana contains starch and should be thor- 
oughly ripened before eating. 

CRANBERRY SATTCE OR JELLY 
1 cup cranberries. % cup water. 

Ys cup sugar. 

Pick over and wash cranberries. Put in saucepan and add 
sugar and water, bring to the boiling point and boil fifteen 
minutes. Strain and cool. 

For jelly use one-half cup sugar and one-quarter cup water 
and after straining put into molds. 

BAKES LEUON OB ORANGE 

Bake a lemon or a sour orange in a moderate oven for 
twenty minutes. When done, open at one end and take out 

1 Without sugar. 



FRUITS 281 

the inside. Sweeten with sugar or molasses. This is excel- 
lent for hoarseness and pressure on the lungs. 

ORANGE SUNFLOWER 

Wash the orange. Put a three-tined fork into the stem 
end. Cut off each end down to pulp, leaving the stem end 
on fork, then pare off rind to pulp, cut out each section and 
place on small plate in sunflower fashion, the pieces of pulp 
for petals; fill centre with granulated sugar. Serve cold. 

Note. — To cut nicely have a large, firm, cold orange and 
a sharp knife. 

ORANGE NO. II 

1 medium orange ^77 Calories. 

Select a large, firm orange; wash, cut and peel skin down 
in eight parts, leaving them connected to stem end of orange 
to form the petals, folding them under the pulp. Separate 
pulp in sections and put ice between petals before serving. 

PINEAPPLE, 131 CALORIES 
1 slice Hawaiian pineapple. 1 Maraschino cherry. 

Serve pineapple on small tea plate with cherry in center. 
To eat a slice of pineapple after a meal is quite in accord- 
ance with physiological indications, as pineapple juice con- 
tains a remarkable digestive principle similar to pepsin. It 
aids the work of digestion in the stomach, also in the intes- 
tinal tract. The Hawaiian Pineapple comes in three forms — 
sliced, crushed and grated. The sliced pineapple is usually 
served just as it comes from the can; the crushed and grated 
are used like apple sauce and also in delicious made desserts 
and beverages. 

STEWED PRUNES 

3 prunes =: 72 Calories. 

Wash and look over the prunes, cover with clear cold water 

and allow to stand on the back of range over night. In the 

morning put the saucepan where they will cook slowly for 

four hours. 



282 VEGETABLE OB PLANT FOODS 

N'ote. — No sugar is needed as prunes are 18 per cent, sugar, 
and by this manner of cooking are made very sweet. This 
simmering process renders them rich and juicy, while boiling 
toughens the skin. A little lemon juice is a pleasant addi- 
tion. 

Prunes are a valuable nutrient, and their use as a laxative 
is scarcely second to figs. 

STEAMED BHTTBABB, 234 CALOBIES i 

1 oup rhubarb (4 oz.). y^ to l^ eup sugar. 

Wash the rhubarb and cut it into inch pieces without re- 
moving the skin, as this gives a pretty pink color to the juice. 
Put it into an agate double boiler without water and steam 
one-half hour, or until soft. Do not stir, as it breaks the 
pieces. Sweeten to taste at once on taking from fire. If 
rhubarb cooks a minute too long — which means after it has 
gone to pieces — it will lose its delicious flavor. 

Ehubarb is rich in oxalic acid, which does much to tone 
the system. 

STEWED FIGS, 936 CALOBIES 

Yz pound figs. 1 eup cold water. 

14 cup white sugar. Juice 14 lemon. 

Wash figs. Dissolve sugar in the water ; add figs and bring 
slowly to boiling point. Stew two and one-half hours; when 
tender, add lemon juice. 

Xote. — Cut figs in small pieces ; cook very slowly so as 
not to add more water. 

BATE BON BONS 

1 date = 20-25 Calories. 

1 walnut meat = 6-8 Calories. 

Put salted almonds, or fourths of English walnuts into the 
inside of dates that have been cut open and stones removed. 
Poll in powdered or granulated sugar and serve. 

* Calculated with % cup sugar ; with % cup sugar = 444 calories. 



NUTS 383 

NUTSi 

Nuts enter but little into the invalid's dietary, but as more 
attention is being paid to means of rendering them di- 
gestible, a word concerning them is not out of place. 

Composition. The edible substance of niits is concentrated 
food, containing little water, and with few exceptions, much 
fat. In general, nuts are also rich in protein. The average 
composition is as follows: 

Water .' 1-4% 

Protein 6-15% 

Fats 40-50% 

Carbohydrates 6-10% 

The only common nut containing much carbohydrate is the 
chestnut, which contains 73 per cent. The pignolia, peanut, 
butternut, almond, beechnut and pistachio contain over 20 
per cent, of protein. The pecan, brazil nut, butternut, filbert, 
hickory nut and walnut contain over 60 per cent, of fat. 

The ash content is comparatively high. Walnuts, almonds, 
etc., are rich in phosphoric acid. 

Cooking of Nuts. ISTuts are more often eaten raw than 
cooked. But the peanut is not considered palatable when raw, 
and the chestnut is very indigestible unless the starch is 
cooked, when it becomes very easily digestible. Almonds are 
widely used in confectionery. 

Nuts may be used as staple articles of diet, in salad, soups, 
desserts, etc. 

To insure the best utilization of nuts they must be thor- 
oughly prepared for digestion by grinding or mastication. 
ISTut butters offer much less resistance to digestion than raw 
nuts hastily eaten. On account of the high fat content, 
these products must be fresh, or the fat is likely to decompose 
(become rancid) and be irritating. 

Nut flours and meals are made into bread or porridge. 
Almond meal (containing no starch and very little sugar) 
is often utilized as a bread for diabetics. The chestnut can- 

1 For further information, note " Nuts and Their Uses as Food," Fanner's 
Bulletin No. 332, U. S. Dept. of Agriculture, Washington, D. C. 



384 VEGETABLE OB PLANT POODS 

not be so used, on account of its high content of starch. The 
peanut contains about 11 per cent, of carbohydrates, and 
hence is undesirable for this purpose. 

Digestibility. Nuts have been considered very indigestible. 
This is due largely to improper mastication or other prepara- 
tion for digestion; to the fact that they are a very concen- 
trated food, and are often eaten when not needed. While 
nut protein, as nuts are ordinarily eaten, is not so easily nor 
completely digested as meat protein, there are experiments 
showing that on the whole, they are as thoroughly digested 
as an ordinary mixed diet. No experiments have been re- 
ported on the ease or rapidity of nut digestion. 

Nutritive Value. Nuts are a concentrated food. This is 
clearly shown by the following figures : 

1 lb. of Almonds yield 2895 Calories. 

1 lb. of Brazil nuts yield 3120 Calories. 

1 lb. of Filberts yield 3100 Calories. 

1 lb. of Hickory yield 3345 Calories. 

1 lb. of Peanuts yield 2610 Calories. 

1 lb. of Walnuts yield 3075 Calories. 

The high fuel value is due to the absence of water and the 
large amount of fat present. Nuts can be most advan- 
tageously used along with bulky foods, such as fruits and 
vegetables, and those lacking in fat, such as bread. In a 
vegetarian diet they become a valuable source of protein. 

FUNGI AND ALG^ 

These substances have little nutritive value. They may be 
considered as food adjuncts, rather than foods proper. 

Of fungi, mushrooms are the most commonly eaten. They 
are prized for their delicate flavor. Chemical analysis shows 
a high percentage of nitrogen, but although reported as pro- 
tein, it is largely in an indigestible form. 

Algffi and lichens are much used as food in some parts of 
the world and high claims are sometimes made for their 
nutritive value, but digestion experiments show that, although 



FUNGI AND ALG^ 285 

they have a similar carbohydrate content to other sucenlent 
vegetable foods, these carbohydrates are not attacked by the 
ordinary digestive enzymes of the alimentary tract. 

The most important alga, from the dietetic standpoint, is 
Irish moss. It is commonly used in making jellies or sooth- 
ing beverages for invalids, but it has no nutritive value 
whatsoever. 

The lichen most used as food is Iceland moss. It has 
frequently been recommended as a food for diebetics, but it 
is practically indigestible. 



CHAPTEE XI 
NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

HOT AND COLD DESSERTS — FROZEN DESSERTS 

SOFT CUSTARDS, BAKED CUSTARDS, WHIPS AND SOTTFFIES, 
JUNKET, CORNSTARCH PUDDINGS OR BIANC MANGE, RICE, 
TAPIOCA, CRACKER AND BREAD PUDDINGS, SAUCES 

Properly prepared, the dessert may constitute a very large 
part of the nutriment represented in a meal. Dishes con- 
taining eggs, milk, cream, starches, etc., in large proportion 
are necessarily of high nutritive value, and become a useful 
means of administering these foods to patients who do not 
care for the flavor of plain milk, raw eggs, cereals, etc., or 
who are likely to become tired of them. For invalids, com- 
binations of foods should always be simple, because the more 
complex the mixture of protein, fat and carbohydrate, the 
longer and more complicated is the process of digestion. 
Hence junket, which is simply flavored, coagulated milk, is 
one of the most digestible of desserts. As a rule, less sugar 
is relished in sickness than in health; an excess is apt to 
cause nausea. 

Dainty service is most important. Baked custards and 
junkets are usually best served in the original individual 
molds to avoid danger of breaking, or in case of junket, of 
becoming watery. Sauces should never be poured over pud- 
dings till the moment of serving. Care must be taken to 
see that cold desserts are thoroughly chilled; a lukewarm 
custard is frequently nauseating and always unappetizing. 



386 



SOFT CUSTARDS 387 



SOFT CTJSTARDS 

SOFT CUSTARD SO. I, 192 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

Yolk 1 egg. Speck salt. 

1 tablespoon sugar. % cup milk. 

Scald milk in double boiler. Beat yolk, add salt and sugar 
and pour on gradually the scalded milk. Pour back into 
top of double boiler and stir constantly until it looks creamy 
or it coats the spoon and the foam has disappeared; then re- 
move immediately from hot water. Cool and add flavoring 
desired; vanilla, orange or lemon extract. 

Note. — If custard curdles, place saucepan over cold water 
and beat until smooth. 

This custard is usually used for pudding sauces. 

SOFT CUSTARD NO. II, 410 CALORIES 
(Two Servings.) 

1 cup milk. % saltspoon salt. 

2 eggs. Vi teaspoon vanilla or grating of 
2 tablespoons sugar. nutmeg. 

Eeserve one egg white for meringue. Blend according to 
Soft Custard No. I. This custard is usually used as a 
foundation for puddings. 

CUSTARD SUITABLE FOR A DIABETIC, 230 CALORIES 

(Two Servings.) 
1 egg. Speck salt. 

Sweetina to taste. 1 cup milk. 

Scald the milk and add the liquid Sweetina to taste ; pour 
on to the well-beaten eggs. Cook and flavor as in preceding 
rule for soft custard or bake according to Cup Custard. 

MERINGUE, 110 CALORIES i 

1 egg white. 2 tablespoons powdered sugar. 

Speck salt. Lemon or orange juice. 

Beat the egg until stiff and. dry ; add the salt, sugar and 
lemon juice to taste. Beat very little after adding the sugar. 

• Without lemon and orange juice. 



288 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

FLOATING ISLAND, 506 CALORIES 

Chill Soft Custard No. II ; pour into serving dish and put 
meringue on top. 

ORANGE CUSTARD 

Peel, slice and remove seeds of oranges, put into serving 
dish. Chill Soft Custard JSTo. II, pour over fruit and put 
meringue on top. 

BANANA CUSTARD 
Peel hananas and slice very thin with silver knife; put 
into serving dish and flavor with lemon juice. Chill Soft 
Custard No. II, pour over fruit and put meringue on top. 

ALMOND PUDDING 

Line a glass dish with slices of stale cake and put in some 
salted almonds. Pour a little sherry wine on the cake. Chill 
Soft Custard No. II and pour over. Put meringue on top, 
with some salted almonds in it. 

PEACH CUSTARD 
Put into serving dish alternate layers of stale cake and 
slices of fresh or canned peaches. Chill Soft Custard No. II, 
pour over fruit and put meringue on top. 

APPLE CUSTARD 

Cool baked apples and put in serving dish. Heap meringue 
on top and brown slightly in the oven. Serve with Soft 
Custard No. I. 

BAKED CUSTARDS 

BAKED OR CUP CUSTARD, 319 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
1 cup milk. 1'% tablespoon sugar. 

1 egg. % saltspoon salt. 

Flavoring to taste — nutmeg, cinnamon, vanilla, or lemon extract. 

Scald the milk; beat egg, add sugar and salt and pour on 
gradually the scalded milk. Flavor to taste and pour into 
custard cups; place in deep pan and pour boiling water 



BAKED CUSTARDS 289 

around until it almost reaches the top of cups. Bake in 
moderate oven about twenty minutes. If cinnamon is used 
for flavor, put one-half square inch into the milk when scald- 
ing. 

Note. — To test when done, dip a pointed knife into water 
and plunge into the middle of the custard. If it looks set 
and the knife comes out clear, the custard is done; if milky, 
it is not cooked enough. If cooked too long the custard will 
curdle. 

BAKED CUSTARD NO. II, 262 CALORIES 
(Individual Rule.) 
% cup milk. Vs saltspoon salt. 

1 egg. Nutmeg. 

1% tablespoon sugar. Y4, teaspoon vanilla. 

Blend according to Baked Custard No. I. 

The smaller quantity of milk makes a little firmer custard. 

WHITE CTJSTARD, 163 CALORIES 

1 egg white. % saltspoon salt. 

1 tablespoon sugar. % eup rich milk. 

Beat white of egg until very light; add sugar and salt 
and pour on gradually the milk. Plavor with vanilla, orange 
or lemon extract. Bake in cups set in pan of boiling water 
in a moderate oven about twenty minutes. When firm set 
on ice and serve cold. This may be taken by patient when the 
yolk of egg is prohibited. 

CHOCOLATE CUSTARD, 250 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

2 teaspoons Walter Baker's choc- 2 egg yolks, 
olate. 2 teaspoons sugar. 

2 tablespoons milk. Speck salt. 

6 tablespoons rich milk. 

Grate chocolate and mix with the two tablespoons milk; 
stir over the fire until smooth, add the rich milk, the well- 
beaten egg yolks, sugar and salt. Pour into custard cups set 
in pan of hot water (nearly to the top). Cook until custard 
is set. Serve hot or cold. 



290 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

Note. — The chocolate and yolk of egg contain a large 
amount of fat. Do not serve to a patient who cannot digest 
it. 

MAITES HUE CUSTARD, 107 CALORIES 
(Individual Kule.) 
1 tablespoon Horlick's Malted % cup hot water. 

Milk. Salt. 

1 egg yolk. 

Mix the Malted Milk powder with enough of the hot 
water to make a smooth paste, add remainder of water and 
pour it gradually on to the well-beaten yolk. Butter custard 
cup, pour in the mixture and let it stand in a pan of boil- 
ing water in a moderate oven until custard is set. 

BAKED CARAMEL CUSTARD, 293 CALORIES 

(Individual Eule.) 
% cup milk. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

1 egg. A few drops of vanilla. 

Speck salt. 

Scald the milk. Put the sugar in a small saucepan, place 
over heat and stir constantly until the sugar is melted and 
a light brown color. Add milk and pour over the slightly- 
beaten egg. Add flavoring. Strain into buttered custard 
cups, place in a pan of hot water and bake until firm in a 
slow oven. 

PEPTONOIDS CUSTARD, 452 CALORIES 

2 tablespoons of Dry Peptonoids Yolks of 2 eggs. 
Soluble. 2 teaspoons of sugar. 

2 tablespoons of milk. A pinch of salt. 

6 tablespoons of thin cream. 

Dissolve Dry Peptonoids Soluble in the milk. Add the 
well-beaten egg yolks, sugar and salt. Pour into custard 
cups, set in pan of hot water, cook until set. 

WHIPS AND SOUFFLES 

Dainty and nutritious ways to serve the uncooked and 
slightly cooked white of eggs. 



WHIPS AND SOUFFLES 391 

rRUIT WHIP, 125-150 CALOKIES 

(Two Servings.) 
Any fruit, fresh, canned or dried (properly prepared), or 
jellies may be used. 

2 to 4 tablespoons fruit pulp. 2 tablespoons powdered sugar 

White 1 egg. (or to taste). 

Lemon juice. 

Prepare the fruit pulp by scraping, grating or rubbing 
through a strainer. Beat the white of egg on platter until 
stiff. Add pulp, sugar and lemon juice to taste, and beat 
until very stiff. Heap in center of serving dish and pour 
Soft Custard No. I around it. 

Note. — The apple is a favorite fruit for these whips. 
The juice of fresh fruits in season used with the raw white 
of egg makes an appetizing as well as a very nutritious lunch 
for the sick. 

STRAWBERRY WHIP, 327 CALORIES 

(Four Servings.) 
1 cup fresh strawberries. % cup powdered sugar. 

Whites 2 eggs. 

Wash and hull the strawberries and mash slightly. Beat. 
whites of eggs until stiff, add sugar and berries; beat until 
very stiff, using a broad bowl and a wire egg-beater, beating 
with a long, steady stroke. Pile lightly in a glass dish and 
serve with white or sponge cake. 

GRAPE WHIP, 1445 CALORIES 

(Six Servings.) 
% cup Welch's grape juice. 5 tablespoons sugar. 

White 1 egg. 1 cup double cream. 

Beat the white of egg until foamy, add the grape juice- 
mixed with the sugar and, lastly, the cream, then beat with 
a whip churn. Take off the froth as it rises and drain on 
a sieve. Pour the unwhipped mixture into small, high glasses, 
and pile the whip on top. Serve cold. 



293 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

OUEIET SOUFFLE, 230 CAIOBIES i 
(Individual Rule.) 
Yolk 1 egg. Speck salt. 

3 tablespoons powdered sugar. Whites 2 eggs. 
2 tablespoons lemon juice. Strawberry or fruit jam. 

To the well-beaten yolk add the sugar, salt, lemon juice 
and rind. Beat the whites to the stiffest possible froth, then 
cut and fold into the yolk. Have ready a small baking dish, 
buttered and spread with a layer of the fruit ; pour the omelet 
over it and bake in a moderate oven fifteen or twenty min- 
utes. Test as for baked custard. Serve at once. 

Note. — Do not use lemon i-ind if it will interfere me- 
dicinally. 

CTTSTARD SOUFFLE, 297 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
% tablespoon butter. Yolk 1 egg. 

1% tablespoons flour. 1% tablespoons sugar. 

14 cup scalded milk. White 1 egg. 

Melt butter, add flour and gradually the scalding milk. 
Cook thoroughly, pour on to the well-beaten yolk, add sugar 
and cool. Fold into mixture the well-beaten white. Turn 
into buttered custard cups and bake about fifteen minutes, 
until firm — determined by pressing with the finger. Take 
from oven and serve at once, or it will fall. Serve with 
Foamy Sauce. 

LEMON SOUFFLE, 275 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
Yolk 1 egg. 14 cup sugar. 

Juice 14 lemon. White 1 egg. 

Thoroughly beat yolk, add sugar, slowly, beating con- 
stantly; add lemon Juice. Fold in the white beaten until 
dry. Pour into buttered custard cups, set in pan of hot 
water and bake twenty minutes or until firm, testing by press- 
ing with finger. Serve plain or with Foamy Sauce. 

^ Without jam. 



JUNKET 393 

PEACH UERINGTTE, 210 CALORIES i 

(Individual Eule.) 
1 cup yellow peaches. Bread crumbs. 

Sugar to taste. White 1 egg. 

Yolk 1 egg. 1 tablespoon powdered sugar. 

Stew peaches in a very little water, sweeten to taste and 
stir in the well-beaten yolk. Butter a pudding dish and 
cover bottom with fine bread crumbs, put in the peaches and 
bake fifteen minutes- Cover with meringue made of white 
of egg and the powdered sugar; brown slightly in the oven. 
Serve cold. 

JUNKET 

Junket is a healthful and dainty dessert made simply of 
pure milk, and containing enough of the active principle 
of rennet found in the Junket Tablet to coagulate the milk. 
It is nutritious and has the added advantage of being easily 
digested. 

Milk or cream that has been boiled, sterilized, condensed 
or evaporated cannot be used in making junket, and care 
must be taken not to heat the milk more than lukewarm, as 
hot milk spoils the action of the tablet. 

For diabetic patients Sweetina may be used as a substitute 
for sugar in these recipes. 

PLAIN JTTNKET, 296 CALORIES 
(Individual Rule.) 

1 cup milk. % Hansen's Junket Tablet. 

2 tablespoons sugar. 1 teaspoon cold water. 
Va teaspoon brandy or wine. 

Heat the milk until lukewarm, add sugar and flavoring; 
when sugar is dissolved add the tablet dissolved in the cold 
water. Pour mixture immediately into sherbet cups or cham- 
pagne glasses, partly fill. Stand in warm room undisturbed 
until firm like jelly, then put on ice to cool. Serve with 
whipped cream heaped on top, with one-half teaspoon bright 
jelly for garnish. 

1 Without bread crumbs and sugar. 



294 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

Kote. — For variety, whole strawberries or raspberries may- 
be served with junket, or chopped English walnuts with the 
whipped cream. For garnish, candied cherries may be used. 

If desired, the brandy and sugar may be omitted in making 
junket and served plain, with sugar and a grating of nutmeg. 

CUSTARD JUNKET, 512 CALORIES 

(Two Servings.) 
% cup hot milk. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

1 egg. l^ teaspoon vanilla. 

2 tablespoons sugar. 1/2 Hansen's Junket Tablet. 
% eup lukewarm milk. 2 teaspoons cold water. 

Beat the egg, add two tablespoons sugar; pour on grad- 
ually the hot milk. Cook in top of double boiler; stir con- 
■stantly until it thickens; take at once from the fire and cool. 
Mix two tablespoons sugar with the lukewarm milk, add to 
the cooled custard and blend thoroughly. When lukewarm 
add vanilla and the tablet dissolved in cold water; finish as 
for Plain Junket. 

COCOA JUNKET, 280 CALORIES 
(Individual Rule.) 

1 tablespoon cocoa. 14 Hansen's Junket Tablet. 

2 teaspoons sugar. 1 teaspoon cold water. 
2 tablespoons boiling water. 3 drops vanilla. 

1 cup milk. 

Mix the cocoa, sugar, boiling water, and cook over heat 
and rub to a smooth paste; add gradually the fresh cool 
milk. Heat until lukewarm (not more), add vanilla and 
then tablet dissolved in the cold water. Finish as for Plain 
Junket and serve with sweetened cream or a Soft Custard. 

COFFEE JUNKET, 289 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

2 tablespoons boiled coffee. % Hansen's Junket Tablet. 

1 scant cup milk. 1 teaspoon cold water. 

2 tablespoons sugar. 

Heat the milk until lukewarm, add the coffee and sugar; 
when sugar is dissolved add the tablet dissolved in the cold 
water. Finish as for- Plain Junket. 



CORNSTARCH PUDDING OR BLANC MANGE 295 



CORNSTARCH PUDDING OR BLANC MANGE 

Starch of various kinds is used in milk puddings. For 
children, invalids and dyspeptics such puddings are admirable. 
They must be thoroughly cooked, that the action of the heat 
may affect the starch. The combination of starch and milk 
gives a wholesome nutritive food, and the addition of eggs 
increases the food value. 

CORNSTARCH PUDDING, 329 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
1 cup milk. Speck salt. 

1% tablespoons cornstarch. White 1 egg. 

1% tablespoons sugar. Vanilla. 

Scald the milk in double boiler. Mix cornstarch, sugar 
and salt thoroughly; add slovrly the scalded milk, stirring 
constantly. Eeturn to top of boiler and cook twenty min- 
utes, stirring constantly for the first five or six minutes, then 
occasionally. Eemove from fire and while very hot fold in 
lightly, but thoroughly, the well-beaten white of egg. When 
partially cooled add flavoring to taste; put into wet cups 
or molds, cool and then stand for several hours on ice. Ee- 
move from molds. Serve with a soft custard, mashed fresh 
berries, or whipped cream. Vary the pudding by adding a. 
little Walter Baker's chocolate, melted. 

PINEAPPLE CREAM, 340 CALORIES 
(Individual Rule.) 
1 cup milk. Speck salt. 

114 tablespoons cornstarch. White 1 egg. 

11/2 tablespoons sugar. 2 tablespoons grated pineapple. 

Follow directions for Cornstarch Pudding, adding the 
pineapple instead of vanilla. Pour into individual molds 
and serve cold with cream. 

CORNSTARCH FRUIT JELLY, 166 CALORIES 1 

(Two Servings.) 
1 cup raspberry juice. 2 tablespoons cornstarch. 

Sugar. 

^Without sugar. 



296 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

Sweeten the juice to taste and heat to boiling point. . Make 
a smooth paste of the cornstarch and a little cold water, add 
slowly to the juice and cook thirty minutes in top of double 
boiler, stirring constantly at first. Pour into cold, wet molds. 
Serve cold with whipped cream and fresh, whole berries. 

HALTED UIIK BLANC UANGK, 280 CALORIES 

(Two Servings.) 
2 tablespoons Horlick'a Malted Speck salt. 

Milk. 1 tablespoon sugar. 

2 tablespoons powdered arrow- 1% cups boiling water, 
root. 14 teaspoon vanilla. 

Mix the arrowroot and Malted Milk powder with a little 
cold water into a smooth paste. Add the boiling water slowly, 
cook in double boiler about twenty minutes, or until arrow- 
root is thoroughly cooked, add vanilla and pour into cold, 
wet molds. Chill and serve with Soft Custard or whipped 
cream. 

Note. — One teaspoon powdered cofEee may be added to 
above before cooking, for Coffee Blanc Mange. 

iniTIlITIOTrS WHEAT PUDDING, 252 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
1 cup milk. White 1 egg. 

2% tablespoons flour. 14 teaspoon vanilla. 

Speck salt. 

Blend flour with a little of the cold milk. Scald remainder 
of milk and add flour mixture; cook thoroughly; add salt 
and flavoring and fold in the white of egg beaten slightly. 
Put into cold, wet mold, cool and set in ice box to harden. 
Serve with Soft Custard or whipped cream, or sprinkle with 
powdered sugar and pour over it one-fourth cup of fresh 
fruit juice or crushed fruit. 

GLUTEN PUDDING (FOR THE DIABETIC), 861 CALORIES 

(Six Servings.) 

3 tablespoons Gum Gluten Flour. 1 teaspoon butter. 
1 pint hot milk. 1 saltspoon salt. 

1 pint cold milk. Cinnamon. 

1 egg. Sweetina. 



RICE PUDDINGS 297 

Blend Gum Gluten Flour with a little of the cold milk, 
add gradually to one pint hot milk. Cook thoroughly. Beat 
egg, add cold milk, the cooked mixture and salt, cinnamon 
and Sweetina to taste. Bake thirty minutes. A little fruit 
improves the flavor. Serve with whipped cream. 

IRISH MOSS JELLY, 677 CALORIES 

(Three Servings.) 
% cup Irish moss. Juice 1 lemon or orange. 

2 cups boiling water. % cup sugar. 

4 figs. 

Soak, pick over and wash the moss. Put it into the boil- 
ing water, add the figs cut into strips and simmer about 
twenty minutes, or until it is very thick when dropped on 
a cold plate. Add lemon juice and sugar. Strain into a 
cold, wet mold. 

IRISH MOSS BLANC MANGE, 296 CALORIES 

(Four Servings.) 
Yi cup Irish moss. % saltspoon salt. 

1% cups cold water. Va teaspoon vanilla. 

1% cups milk. 

Soak the moss in cold water about fifteen minutes. Ee- 
move from water, pick over and put into double boiler with 
the milk. Cook about twenty minutes, or until it thickens 
when dropped on a cold plate. Add salt, strain and flavor. 
Strain again and turn into small cold, wet molds. Chill and 
serve with cream and sugar or sliced fruit. 

RICE PUDDINGS 

BOILED RICE, 100 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
2 tablespoons rice. % teaspoon salt. 

2 cups boiling water. 

Wash rice thoroughly and add gradually to the boiling 
salted water, care being taken that the water does not stop 
boiling. Boil uncovered twenty minutes, or until grains 



398 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

are soft. Turn into a strainer and pour over it one cup of 
iot water and drain, put in oven a few moments to dry, with 
oven door open. Serve as a cereal with sugar or cream or 
as a pudding with cooked dates and whipped cream, or plain 
with Soft Custard. 

Note. — Keep rice well covered with water while cooking. 

Dates. — Cut in small pieces, add a little water to partly 
cover and cook until soft. Simmer and do not stir. 

STEADIED BICE, 265 CALORIES 
(Individual Rule.) 
1/3 cup rice. % teaspoon salt. 

1 cup boiling water. 

Pick over the rice, wash in three or four waters; put it 
with the boiling water and salt in upper part of double 
boUer. Do not stir while cooking. Steam one hour, or until 
the grains are tender. Serve as a cereal with sugar or cream 
or as a pudding with Soft Custard, or with sugar and cream. 

Note. — A few dates cut in narrow strips may be added 
just before serving if desired. Part milk may be used in 
the cooking. 

PEACHES AND RICE 

Serve boiled or steamed rice with sections of fresh, juicy 
peaches, or ■\i'ith fresh berries. Serve with sugar and cream. 

SOUTHERN SNOWBALLS, 367 CALORIES 
(Individual Rule.) 
14 cup rice. 14 teaspoon salt. 

1 cup milk. 

Pick over rice, wash in several waters and put with milk 
and salt in top of double boiler. Cook until the milk is ab- 
sorbed and rice is tender. Do not stir while cooking. Dip 
egg cups in cold water and pack with rice carefully but 
tightly, turn out on serving dish, sprinkle with powdered 
sugar, put a candied cherry or a strawberry on top, and serve 
with whipped cream. 



EICE PUDDINGS 299 

PIAIN RICE PUDDING, 746 CAIOMES 
(Individual Eule.) 
1 cup steamed rice. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

1 cup scalded milk. % saltspoon salt. 

% tablespoon butter. 14 cup stoned raisins. 

1 egg- 
Scald milk and add butter. Beat egg, add sugar and salt 
and pour on slowly the scalding milk. Put in pudding dish 
with rice and raisins. Bake in a moderate oven until custard 
is set. Serve with Hard Sauce. 

Note. — Do not use raisins in case of bowel trouble. 

RICE MERINGUE, 528 CALORIES 

(Two Servings.) 
%, cup cold cooked rice. Egg yolk. 

1 cup scalded milk. Vanilla. 

2% tablespoons sugar. 1 egg white. 

14 saltspoon salt. 2 tablespoons powdered sugar. 

Blend rice and milk and soak until soft. Beat the yolk, 
add sugar and salt and gradually the hot milk and rice. 
Cook until it thickens like soft custard. Add flavoring to 
taste and pour into pudding dish or custard cups. Make a 
meringue of the white of egg and powdered sugar, cover the 
pudding and brown slightly in the oven. 

CREAM OF RICE PUDDING, 657 CALORIES 

(Three Servings.) 
Vi cup rice (well washed). 1 saltspoon salt. 

2 tablespoons sugar. 1 pint milk. 

Mix all ingredients in a small baking dish. Bake two 
hours, slowly at first until rice is softened and thickened in 
the milk. Cut the crust several times, stirring to the bottom 
gently. The crust will then dissolve in the pudding, giving 
it a creamy color. Then let it brown slightly. 



300 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

TAPIOCA PUDDINGS 

TAPIOCA CREAM, 483 CALOSIES 

(Two Servings.) 
1% tablespoons Minute tapioca. 1 cup scalded milk, 
3 tablespoons sugar. 1 egg. 

% saltspoon salt. Flavoring. 

Scald milk in double boiler. Mix tapioca, sugar and salt; 
add slowly to the scalding milk, return to double boiler and 
cook fifteen minutes. Add the yolk and white of the egg, 
beaten separately. Eemove from fire and add flavoring de- 
sired. Serve plain or with any fresh fruit in season. 

PLAIN TAPIOCA, 451 CALORIES 

(Three Servings.) 
1% tablespoons Minute tapioca. 1 cup scalded milk. 
2 tablespoons sugar. % cup raisins. 

Salt. Nutmeg. 

Scald milk in double boiler and gradually add the tapioca 
and sugar. Cook fifteen minutes. Add salt, nutmeg to taste 
and seeded raisins. Serve with cream and sugar. 

Note. — Eaisins should never be used in bowel trouble. 

PINEAPPLE TAPIOCA, 718 CALORIES 

(Three Servings.) 
14 cup Minute tapioca. 1% cups boiling water. 

% cup sugar. 1 cup canned grated pineapple. 

Speck salt. 

Mix tapioca, sugar and salt, pour on slowly the boiling 
water and cook in double boiler until clear, about fifteen min- 
utes. Pour over the grated pineapple and decorate the top 
of the pudding with currant jelly. 

APPLE TAPIOCA, 345 CALORIES 1 

(Three Servings.) 
14 cup Minute tapioca. 1 pint boiling water. 

1 tablespoon sugar. 3 tart apples. 

Speck salt. Sugar, nutmeg. 

^ Without extra sugar. 



TAPIOCA PUDDINGS 301 

Mix tapioca, sugar and salt, pour on slowly the boiling 
water, and cook in double boiler fifteen minutes. Pour this 
onto the apples, which have been pared and cored and the 
holes filled with sugar and a little nutmeg. Cover the dish 
and bake one-half hour. Serve with cream and sugar. 

RASFBEKKY TAPIOCA, 218 CALORIES 

(Three Servings.) 
1% tablespoons Minute tapioca. % cup raspberry juice. 
1% tablespoons sugar. Juice % lemon. 

1 cup boiling water. Speck salt. 

Mix tapioca, sugar and salt, pour on slowly the boiling 
water and cook in double boiler fifteen minutes. Add rasp- 
berry and lemon juice. When it begins to jelly, beat smooth 
with a spoon. Serve plain or with whipped cream. 

DATE TAPIOCA, 660 CALORIES 

(Three Servings.) 
ly^ tablespoons Minute tapioca. 1 cup scalded milk. 
1 tablespoon sugar. 1 egg. 

Yg saltspoon salt. % cup chopped dates. 

Mix tapioca, sugar and salt; add gradually the hot milk 
and cook in double boiler fifteen minutes. Add the beaten 
egg yolk and cook three minutes longer. Stir in the dates. 
Make a meringue of the white of egg, heap it on top and 
brown delicately in the oven. 

CHOCOLATE OR COCOA BLANC UANOE, 827 CALORIES i 

(Three Servings.) 
14 cup Minute tapioca. 1% cups hot chocolate or cocoa. 

14 cup sugar. % teaspoon vanilla. 

14 teaspoon salt. 

Mix tapioca, sugar and salt; pour on gradually the hot 
cocoa and cook in double boiler about twenty minutes. Ee- 
move from heat, add vanilla and pour into cold, wet molds. 
Serve cold, plain or with whipped cream or Soft Custard. 

1 Calculated with chocolate, recipe page 135. 



303 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 



BREAD PUDDINGS 

The principle of employing farinaceous matter which has 
already been subjected to heat (so that, a considerable con- 
version of starch has gone on before the human salivary 
diastase comes into play) is carried out in practice in the 
form of bread puddings. 

PLAIN BREAD PUDDING, 900 CALOKIES 

(Two Servings.) 
1 cup stale bread. 2 tablespoons sugar (to taste). 

1 cup milk. % saltspoon salt. 

1 tablespoon butter. l^ cup seeded raisins. 

1 egg- 
Scald milk and add butter. Beat the egg and add sugar 
and salt; pour on gradually the scalding milk. Cut the 
bread into one-half inch cubes and add with the raisins. 
Pour into well-buttered pudding dish, put bits of butter on 
top and bake in a moderate oven until the custard is set. 
Serve with Hard Sauce or cream and sugar. 
Note. — Do not serve raisins in bowel trouble. 

ORANGE BREAD PUDDING, 710 CAIORIES i 
(Two Servings.) 

1 cup stale bread. 2 oranges. 

Yz cup milk. Sugar to taste. 

2 eggs. 

Soak bread in the milk until soft and beat lightly with 
fork; add the grated rind of one orange and the juice of 
both; sweeten. Beat the whites very light and add to above 
mixture. Pour into custard cups and cook as for baked cus- 
tard -^ about fifteen or twenty minutes. Serve plain or with 
Hard Sauce. 

Note. — Omit orange rind if it will interfere medicinally. 

^ Without sugar. 



BREAD PUDDINGS 303 

lEMON BREAD PUDDING, 543 CAIORIES 

(Two Servings.) 

-/2 cup milk. 3 tablespoons sugar. 

Va eup soft bread crumbs. % tablespoon butter. 

Yolk 1 egg. Grated rind ^ lemon. 
Speck salt. 

Scald milk and add butter. Beat the egg yolk, add sugar 
and salt and pour on gradually the scalded milk. Add the 
bread crumbs and grated lemon rind ; pour into a buttered 
pudding dish and bake in a moderate oven about fifteen min- 
utes, or until set like baked custard. 

Make a meringue by beating the v?hite of egg very stiff, 
adding two tablespoons powdered sugar and juice of one- 
fourth lemon. Cover the pudding with it and set in the 
oven till a dainty brown. 

Note. — Do not use lemon rind if it will interfere medici- 
nally. For the crumbs, rub soft bread through a coarse 
strainer. 

JELLY BREAD PUDDING 

Prepare the same as for Lemon Bread Pudding, omitting 
the lemon rind and juice. Spread any tart jelly over pudding 
when baked and add meringue. 

CHOCOLATE BREAD PUDDING, 904 CALORIES 

(Two Servings.) 

% cup stale bread crumbs. 214 tablespoons sugar. 

1 cup milk. 1 egg. 

1/2 ounce (or square) Walter Speck salt. 

Baker's unsweetened chocolate. % teaspoon vanilla. 

Soak bread crumbs in milk. Melt chocolate over hot water 
and add to it the sugar and salt. To the chocolate mixture, 
add the soaked crumbs, the beaten egg and vanilla. Put into 
buttered custard cups and bake in a moderate oven about 
twenty minutes, or until custard is set. Serve hot, plain or 
with Hard Sauce. 



304 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

CHEESE FTTDDING (FOR THE DIABETIC), 1400 CALORIES 

(Two Servings.) 

2 eggs. Speck soda. 

1 cup milk. 1 tablespoon butter. 

% cup cheese. Salt. 

1 cup Gum Gluten bread crumbs. Cayenne. 

Dry the bread, roll and soak a short time in the milk. 
Beat the eggs lightly, add the milk and crumbs, grated cheese, 
salt and cayenne pepper to taste. Beat well, pour into but- 
tered pan and bake in a hot oven half an hour. Serve im- 
mediately, as five minutes' delay vrill spoil. 

GLUTEN BROWN BETTY (FOR THE DIABETIC), 222 CALORIES i 

3 Gum Gluten Biscuit Crisps. Sugar. 

1 large sour apple. Cinnamon. 

2 teaspoons butter. 

Into a well-buttered individual baking dish place one 
crushed Biscuit Crisp; onto this put one-half apple cooked 
as for apple sauce or raw cut in thin slices or chopped; 
season with sugar, speck of cinnamon and bits of butter. 
Add another layer of crumbs (one Biscuit Crisp), then the 
remaining half of apple and seasoning, lastly crimibs. Place 
bits of butter on top, put in slow oven, and bake. 

CEACKEE PUDDINGS 

CRACKER PUDDING, 397 CALORIES 

(Two Servings.) 
1% soda crackers. Yolk 1 egg. 

1 cup milk. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

Ya teaspoon salt. 

Eoll the crackers and soak in the milk. Beat yolks and 
sugar well together and add to pudding with salt. Bake 
one-half hour. Make a meringue with the whites of the 
eggs, pile lightly on top and put in oven till golden brown. 
Serve hot. 

^ Without sugar. 



PUDDING SAUCES 305 

ENGLISH WAINUTS AND BISCUIT CRISPS (FOR THE DIA- 
BETIC), 154 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
2 Gum Gluten Biscuit Crisps. 4 walnut halves. 

2 hot tablespoons thin cream. Parsley. 
% teaspoon butter. 

Butter Biscuit Crisps and place in oven until well heated 
through. Dip the nuts in melted butter and cook, turning 
often until heated. Cover each Crisp with one tablespoon of 
hot cream and serve two nuts on each Crisp; garnish with 
sprig of parsley. 

Note. — Buttered Biscuit Crisps may be served heated and 
served with ground nut meats over top. 

PUDDING SAUCES 

HARD SATTGE, 650 CALORIES 

(Four Servings.) 

3 tablespoons butter. % white of egg. 

6 tablespoons powdered sugar. % tablespoon cream. 
Nutmeg. 

Cream butter; add sugar gradually. When light and 
creamy add the unbeaten white of egg and the cream, a drop 
or two at a time. Season highly. Heap on serving dish and 
cool. 

FOAMY SAUCE, 863 CALORIES 

(Three Servings.) 

l^ cup butter. 1/2 egg. 

1/2 cup powdered sugar. 1 tablespoon wine. 

Cream butter; add sugar gradually, the well-beaten egg 
and the wine. Heat over hot water, beating constantly. 
Serve immediately. 

TO WHIP CREAM 

% cup thick cream (40%) =432 Calories. 
Do not have cream too thick; season with sugar and any 
flavoring desired ; put in bowl and set bowl in another utensil 
containing a little cold water and ice. Beat cream with Dover 



306 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

egg-beater until stiff enough to keep its form. Set on ice to 
keep cold. 

Note. — Do not beat too long or it may turn to butter. To 
one-half cup thick cream add three tablespoons milk. 

WHIPPED CREAM NO. II. 

1 egg white =10 to 15 Calories. 
Follow the above recipe, and add the white of one egg 
beaten stiff, folding it into the stiffly-beaten cream. 

FRUIT SAUCE, 75 CALORIES 
(Two Servings.) 
6 tablespoons fruit juice. % teaspoon arrowroot or corn- 

starch. 

Blend starch with a little cold water and pour into the 
hot fruit juice. Boil two or three minutes. Sweeten if de- 
sired. 

ORANGE SAUCE 

See chapter " Gelatin " for recipe. Page 310. 
FROZEN DESSERT 

ICE CREAM — SHERBET — ICES 

Frozen dishes not only constitute an acceptable form of 
serving nutriment, but often are a means of furnishing addi- 
tional liquid and relieving thirst. Ices and sherbets made 
with fruits and water, have a dietetic value similar to acid 
beverages. Frozen cream, milk, junkets, custards, etc., have 
the same nutritive value as the same foods served without 
freezing. 

In giving all very cold dishes, care must be taken not to 
interfere with the digestion of other foods. Chilling the 
mouth hinders the formation and activity of saliva; chilling 
the stomach retards gastric digestion. The latter effect can 
be avoided by eating ice-cold food very slowly, so that it is 
partially warmed before reaching the stomach. Frozen foods 
should not be given when ptyalin digestion is especially im- 
portant. 



ICE CREAM 30r 

General Rules for Freezing. Ice (or snow) and salt are 
required for the process of freezing. The salt melts the ice, 
and in melting absorbs heat from the mixture, thus causing it 
to freeze. The finer the ice, the more quickly the freezing 
will be accomplished. In packing a freezer allow three level 
measures of ice to one of salt. This proportion is found best 
for fine-grained mixture. The can should not be filled more 
than three-fourths full, as the liquid expands in freezing, and 
if over-crowded, the cream will become coarse-grained and the 
cover may be pushed up allowing the salt water to get in. 

Freezing in Small Amounts. Put mixture to be frozen 
into a water-tight baking powder can, or a small tin pail with 
cover, and stand in large pail or bowl. Pack the ice and salt 
alternately under and around it (ice pounded fine), using 
one part salt to three parts ice. Eemove cover, and beat 
mixture with Dover egg-beater until foamy, replace cover and 
turn can, or pail, back and forth; remove cover occasionally 
and scrape the frozen mixture from side of can, and beat 
thoroughly with fork. The mixture will freeze in twenty 
minutes. "When frozen, place a narrow strip of cloth, dipped 
in melted beef fat or lard, around the outside of cover to keep 
out the salt water. Eepack in ice, or ice and salt, and cover 
well until wanted. 

Serve frozen dishes in sherbet, champagne, or high glasses ; 
pass on small plate covered with doily, and at the side of the 
plate a small cake, wafer or a few orange straws may be 
added ; a rose will add to the attractiveness. 

ICE CREAM 

VANILLA ICE CREAM, 310 CALORIES i 

(Individual Rule.) 
% cup thin cream or %, cup % teaspoon vanilla. 

heavy cream and 14 cup milk. Speck salt. 
1% tablespoons sugar. 

Blend all the ingredients; when sugar is dissolved, freeze 
in a small pail according to general directions. 

1 Calculated with thin cream. 



308 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

CHOCOLATE ICE CEEAM, 353 CALORIES i 

(Individual Rule.) 
% cup thin cream or 14 cup 1% tablespoons sugar. 

heavy cream and % cup milk. 1 tablespoon boiling water. 
14 square Walter Baker's choco- % teaspoon vanilla. 

late. Speck salt. 

Melt the chocolate over hot water, add the boiling water, 
sugar and hot cream. Cool, add vanilla and salt and freeze 
in small pail according to general directions. 

COFFEE ICE CREAM, 353 CALORIES 1 

(Individual Rule.) 
% cup thin cream or 14 cup 1% tablespoons sugar. 

heavy cream and 14 cup milk. Speck salt. 
1 tablespoon ground coffee. 14 cup milk. 

Mix coffee and milk, put into double boiler and cook five 
minutes. Strain through cheese-cloth and strainer; add 
sugar, salt and cream. Cool and freeze in small pail, accord- 
ing to general directions. 

JUNKET ICE CREAM, 690 CALORIES 1 

(Two Servings.) 
% cup cream. Vs Hansen's Junket Tablet. 

% cup milk. 2 teaspoons cold water. 

2% tablespoons sugar. % teaspoon vanilla. 

Heat the milk until lukewarm, add the sugar and vanilla; 
when sugar is dissolved add the tablet dissolved in the cold 
water. Allow it to stand in warm room until firm, then beat 
thoroughly and turn into small pail and freeze according to 
General Eule. 

Note. — A variety may be made by. adding two teaspoons 
cocoa dissolved in a little boiling water. Add to mixture 
before adding the tablet. Serve the creams plain or with 
whole strawberries, etc. 

Note. — The junket improves the body or consistency of 
any cream. 

^ Calculated with thin cream. 



ICE CREAM 309 

GRAPE JUICE ICE CREAM, 490 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

% cup sugar. 
14 cup Welch's grape juice. 

Scald one-half cup of the cream and add the sugar. Cool, 
add remainder of cream and the grape juice and freeze accord- 
ing to general directions. 

STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM, 356 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
% cup thin cream or 14 cup 2 tablespoons sugar. 

heavy cream and 14 cup milk. Speck salt. 
14 cup strawberries. 

Mash the strawberries with the sugar and allow them to 
stand five minutes. Add the cream and milk and freeze in 
small pail according to general directions. 

Note. — -The berries may be mashed and strained through 
cheese-cloth. 

RASPBERRY ICE CREAM, 363 CALORIES 
(Individual Rule.) 
% cup thin cream or 14 cup 2 tablespoons sugar. 

heavy cream and 14 cup milk. Speck salt. 
14 cup raspberries. 

Mash the raspberries and strain through cheese-cloth. Add 
cream, milk and sugar. Freeze in small pail according to 
general directions. 

PEACH ICE CREAM, 390 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
% cup thin cream or ^ cup 14 cup peaches, 
heavy cream and l^ cup milk. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

Mix peaches and sugar and press through a potato-ricer 
or sieve. Scald cream and milk. Cool and add peaches and 
sugar. Freeze in small pail according to general directions. 



310 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

CAHAMEL ICE CKEAII, 340 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
% cup thin cream or % cup ll^ tablespoons boiling water. 

thick cream and % cup milk. 14 teaspoon vanilla. 
2 tablespoons sugar. Speck salt. 

Into saucepan place the sugar and stir constantly until 
melted. Add water and boil until reduced to one and one- 
half tablespoon. Add cream very slowly, vanilla, salt, and 
freeze. 

CARAMEL ICE CREAM HO. II, 5942 CALORIES 

(Ten Servings.) 
1 pint milk. 2 eggs. 

1 cup sugar. Speck salt. 

5 tablespoons flour. 1 quart cream. 

1 scant cup sugar for caramel. 

Scald the milk; mix one cup sugar, flour and salt, add the 
eggs and beat all together until perfectly smooth and light. 
Add the scalding milk gradually, beating until very smooth. 
Cook in double boiler twenty minutes. 

While cooking, prepare caramel. Put the second cup of 
sugar in saute pan, and cook until melted and a delicate 
brown; add gradually the custard, stirring constantly; strain 
and cool. Add the cream (which has been scalded and 
cooled) and freeze in large freezer. 

Note. — This may be used for vanilla ice-cream by omit- 
ting the caramel and using one tablespoon vanilla and enough 
of the second cup of sugar to sweeten. 

MALTED MILK ICE CREAM, 3900 CALORIES 1 

(Ten Servings.) 
% pound Horlick's Malted Milk. 1 pint cream. 
1 cup granulated sugar. 2 ounces chocolate. 

1 quart water. 1 tablespoon vanilla. 

White 1 egg. 

Mix the malted milk powder, sugar and boiling water, stir- 
ring until smooth. Add cream and scraped chocolate and 
cook until chocolate is melted. Add vanilla, cool and freeze. 

1 Thick cream. 



ICE CREAM 311 

When partly frozen, add the well-beaten white of egg, and 
finish freezing. 

Note. — If strawberry or other flavor is desired, it may be 
used in place of vanilla. 

PEPTONOIDS ICE CREAM, 1274 CALOEIES 

4 tablespoons Dry Peptonoids % piiit thin cream. 

Soluble. 1 oz. chocolate. 

% cup sugar. % tablespoon of vanilla. 

1 pint of water. White of 1 egg. 

Mix Dry Peptonoids Soluble, sugar and boiling water. 
Stir until smooth. Add cream and scraped chocolate. Cook 
until chocolate is melted. Add vanilla; cool and freeze. 
Wben partially frozen, add well-beaten white of egg. 

FROZEN CUSTARD, 349 CALORIES 

(Two Servings.) 
1 cup hot milk. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

1 egg. % teaspoon vanilla. 

Speck salt. 

Beat the egg, add the sugar and salt and gradually the 
scalded milk. Cool, add flavoring and freeze. 

HOT COCOA SATTCE FOR ICE CREAM, 1035 CALORIES 

(Six Servings.) 
1% cups water. 2 tablespoons Walter Baker's co- 

1 cup sugar. coa. 

1 tablespoon arrowroot. 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

Speck salt. 

Boil together the water and sugar for two minutes; add 
the arrowroot mixed with a little cold water, stir for a mo- 
ment, then boil until clear. Add the cocoa, which has been 
mixed with a little hot water, and the salt, and boil three 
minutes longer. Eemove from the fire and add the vanilla. 



313 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

SHERBET 

LEMON UIIK SHERBET, 299 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
% cup milk. Juice of i/4 lemon. 

14 eup sugar. 1 drop lemon extract. 

Blend all the ingredients and freeze in small pail accord- 
ing to general directions. 

LEMON MILK SHERBET, NO. II, 2390 CALORIES 

(Six Servings.) 
1 quart milk. Juice 2 lemons. 

1 pint sugar. 1 teaspoon lemon extract. 

To the lemon juice add the sugar, milk and extract. 
Freeze immediately in large freezer. 

STRAWBERRY SHERBET, 357 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
% eup milk. ^ cup sugar. 

1 cup strawberries. 

Mash the berries and strain. To the juice add sugar and 
milk. Freeze in small pail according to general directions. 

STRAWBERRY SHERBET NO. II, 2940 CALORIES 

(Six Servings.) 

1 quart milk. 2 cups sugar. 

2 quarts strawberries. 

Mash the berries and strain. Add sugar and milk. Freeze 
in large freezer. 

CLAM SHERBET, 128 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
% cup milk. Speck paprika. 

14 cup clam broth. 

Blend and freeze according to General Eule. Serve in 
small dainty glasses with a teaspoon of unsweetened whipped 
cream on top. The milk and clam taken in this way are 
often more acceptable to the patient than when served in 
liquid form. 



SHERBET 313 

Note. — The paprika may be omitted if condiments are not 
desirable. 

MALTED MILK SHERBET, 2148 CALORIES 

(Six Servings.) 
% pound Harlick's Malted Milk. 1 tablespoon vanilla. 
1 cup granulated sugar. 2 ounces chocolate. 

3 pints v^ater. White 1 egg. 

Make a smooth paste of the malted milk powder and a 
little of the water, then add the rest of the water gradually, 
the sugar, vanilla and the chocolate grated. Freeze. When 
partly frozen, add the well-beaten white of egg and finish 
freezing. 

GRAPE SHERBET, 3265 CALORIES 

(Ten Servings.) 
3 cups Welch's grape juice. 3 cups sugar. 

1 quart water. White 2 eggs. 

Blend the grape Juice, water and sugar. Partly freeze. 
Beat the whites of eggs lightly, add two tablespoons pow- 
dered sugar ; add to sherbet and continue freezing until hard. 
Eemove dasher and allow it to stand for one hour to ripen. 
Pack carefully. 

GRAPE AMBROSIA, 5243 CALORIES 

(Twelve Servings.) 

1 quart milk. 1 pint Welch's grape juice. 

2 quarts water. 1 can grated pineapple. 
31/3 cups sugar. Juice 3 lemons. 
Whites 4 eggs. 

Mix together milk, water, sugar and fruit and partially 
freeze. Add the well-beaten whites of eggs and continue 
freezing until hard. 

ICES 

ORANGE ICE, 252 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

% cup water. 1 tablespoon lemon juice, 

juice 1% oranges. 



514 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

Mix together all the ingredients and freeze in small pail 
according to general directions. 

ORANGE ICE NO. II, 990 CALORIES 

(Four Servings.) 
2 tablespoons shredded gelatin. 1 cup sugar. 
% cup cold water. 1 cup orange juice. 

1% cups boiling water. Juice 1 lemon. 

Soak gelatin in the cold water twenty minutes; add boil- 
ing water; when gelatin is dissolved add the sugar, orange 
and lemon juice. Cool, strain and freeze in large freezer. 

ORANGE ICE NO. Ill, 1922 CAIORIES 

(Four Servings.) 
1 pint orange juice. Grated rind 1 orange. 

Juice 2 lemons. 1 quart water. 

1 pint sugar. 

Boil the water and sugar twenty minutes; add fruit juice 
and rind of orange. Cool, strain and freeze in large freezer. 

Note. — Do not use orange rind if it will interfere me- 
dicinally. 

LEMON ICE, 257 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
% cup water. 4 tablespoons sugar. 

Juice 1 lemon. 

Mix all the ingredients and freeze in small pail according 
to general directions. 

FRUIT ICE, 497 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
Vs banana. Juice % lemon. 

1/3 cup strawberries. % "^^P '^o^'l water. 

Juice % orange. % cup sugar. 

Put the fruit into a coarse strainer (or a potato-ricer), rub- 
bing it through into a large bowl. Pour the cold water 
through the strainer. Add the sugar, stir well and freeze 
according to general directions. 



ICES 315 

FIKEAFFIE ICE, 242 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
% cup Hawaiian grated pine- % cup water. 

apple. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

Boil the water and sugar together about three minutes; 
add pineapple and lemon juice. Cool, strain and freeze ac- 
cording to general directions. 

GRAPE FRAPPE, 2175 CALORIES 

(Six Servings.) 
1 pint Welch's grape juice. 1 pint water. 

Juice 1 lemon. 2 cups sugar. 

Boil the water and sugar together for five minutes; cool 
and add the grape and lemon juice. Freeze to the con- 
sistency of a mush. Serve in tall glasses with sweetened 
whipped cream piled high on top. 

CLAM FRAPPE 
(Individual Rule.) 
% cup cold water. Speck paprika. 

% cup clam broth. 

Blend and freeze according to General Eule, to the con- 
sistency of a soft Water Ice. Serve in small punch-glasses 
or champagne glasses, with a teaspoon of unsweetened 
whipped cream on top — Delicious to serve for dinner in 
place of shellfish. 

SCALPICON OF FRUIT 

A delicious scalpicon is made by cutting all kinds of fresh 
fruits into small pieces flavoring with wine or lemon juice 
and sugar. Put into serving dish with Orange or Lemon 
Ice on top. Serve individually in champagne glasses on a 
small plate with doily, with a single rose or other flower to 
correspond with color of ice. 

ORANGE STRAWS 
Peel the orange or lemon lengthwise ; cut into long, narrow 
strips, about one-fourth of an inch wide. Put into saucepan 



316 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

and cover with cold water and bring to the boiling point and 
pour off the water; repeat this process five or six times, or 
until the bitter taste of peel is extracted. Drain thoroughly 
and cover with granulated sugar. Cook until sugar is dis- 
solved and is thick and hardens in cold water. Then roll 
straws in granulated sugar and cool. Serve with Orange Ice, 
etc., or as a bon-bon. 



CHAPTEE XII 
CAKE 

The two methods of making cake light are by means of 
air and of gas. Air is introduced by beating, or by the 
addition of beaten eggs, as in sponge cake. When the light- 
ness is entirely dependent upon air, the whites and yolks of 
eggs should be beaten separately. 

Gas may be generated from within by combining an acid 
and alkali and adding moisture; as cream of tartar and 
bicarbonate of soda; or sour milk and soda; or molasses and 
baking powder. The combination of both air and gas is 
used to raise butter cakes. 

General Directions for Cake Mahing. Before blending the 
cake, see that the oven is at right temperature for baking 
and the pans greased with a little beef fat and dredged with 
flour. The pan may be lined with paper to prevent cake 
burning on bottom when cake requires long baking or when 
the oven bakes too quickly on the bottom. Have all material 
at hand and measured. Use a round bottom bowl, and a 
wooden spoon for mixing; beat rather than stir the mixture 
and fold in ingredients. Put mixture in cake pans, slightly 
higher on the sides than in the center, as cake rises more 
quickly in the center. Layer cake takes a hotter oven than 
loaf cake. If cake is baked properly, it will rise, but not 
brown, during first quarter of the time required for baking; 
become slightly browned the second quarter; well browned 
during the third; and shrink from the pan during the 
fourth. 

If the oven is too hot, a crust will form over the top be- 
fore the cake has risen sufficiently and the cake will break 

317 



318 CAKE 

open on the top. If the oven is too cool the cake will rise too 
much and will be of coarse texture. 

Place pans in oven in such position that they may remain 
and do not move them before the third quarter of the baking. 
If the top of the cake should brown too quickly cover with 
a piece of light weight paper, slightly buttered on the one 
side and next to the cake. 

Cake is sufficiently baked when it shrinks slightly from 
the edge of the pan and feels firm to the touch; if when 
tested with a fine washed and heated knitting or darning 
needle and it comes out clear. In lo6king at cake do not 
open the oven door ■ too wide and only for a moment, and 
care must be taken not to jar the door in closing. 

SPONGE CAKE, 1390 CALORIES 

4 eggs. 1% teaspoons Rumford's baking 

1 cup powdered sugar. powder. 

% cup bread flour. Eind and juice of % lemon. 

14 teaspoon salt. 

Beat eggs separately, very light. To the yolks add the 
sugar and lemon, sift in carefully the flour blended with the 
baking powder and beat about five minutes. Then fold in 
the whites. Bake in a well-greased and floured angel cake 
tin in a moderate oven. -Cake is done if when tested with a 
fine (washed) knitting needle it comes out clear, or when the 
cake shrinks from the pan. 

COID WATER SPONGE CAKE, 1633 CALORIES 

2 eggs. 2 teaspoons Rumford baking 
1 cup sugar. powder. 

6 tablespoons cold water. 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

1% cups bread flour. 

Beat the yolks and whites separately. To the yolks add 
the sugar and beat well ; add lemon juice and cold water ; sift 
flour and baking powder together three times and add grad- 
ually, beating thoroughly. 

Fold in the well-beaten whites. Bake in well-greased and 
floured gem tins, or shallow pan in a moderate oven. 



CAKE 319 

HOT WATER SPONGE GAEE, 1460 CALORIES 

2 , eggs. % saltspoon salt. 

1 cup sugar. % teaspoon vanilla. 

1 cup bread flour. 14 cup boiling water. 
114 teaspoons Rumford baking 

powder. 

Beat the eggs very light, add the sugar ; sift dry ingredients 
together and add gradually; add flavoring and beat well. 
Lastly add the boiling water, and bake in well-greased and 
floured gem tins, or shallow pan, in a moderate oven. 

PLAIN CAKE, 2230 CALORIES 

2 eggs. 4 tablespoons butter. 

% cup milk. 2 teaspoons Rumford baking 

1 cup sugar. powder. 

1% cups bread flour blended with 1 teaspoon flavoring or spices. 
2 tablespoons corn-starch. 

Line the pan with buttered paper; separate eggs. Cream 
the butter, add the sugar gradually, add the well-beaten yolks 
and flavoring. Add alternately the milk and the flour with 
the baking powder sifted in it. Beat well and fold in the 
stiSly-beaten whites. Put at once in a well-lined and greased 
pan, and bake in a hot oven about thirty minutes, or until it 
shrinks from the pan, or until a fine (washed) knitting needle 
comes out dry. 

The cake may be varied by adding one-fourth cup currants, 
or a few raisins and a little citron, or mixed spices, or a little 
melted chocolate. Before adding fruit to cake it should be 
slightly flbured. 

GLUTEN NUT CAKE (FOR THE DIABETIC), 1436 CALORIES 1 

1 tablespoon butter. 14 teaspoon Sweetina. 

Yolks 2 eggs. Salt and spices. 

Whites 2 eggs. 1 cup nut meats. 

% cup sour milk. Gum Gluten Flour. 

1 teaspoon soda. 

Cream the butter, add the well-beaten yolks and Sweetina 
syrup, then the sour milk in which the soda has been blended. 
Add Gum Gluten Flour gradually to make a stiff batter; 

1 Without gluten flour. 



320 CAKE 

season with salt and spices and add nut meats. Bake in 
moderate oven. 

BOILED FBOSTING, 853 CALORIES 

1 cup sugar. White 1 egg. 

14 teaspoon cream of tartar. % teaspoon flavoring. 

14 cup cold water. ^, 

Boil the sugar, cream of tartar and cold water without stir- 
ring until it threads from spoon, and gradually pour on to 
the well-beaten white of egg. Add any flavoring to taste. 
Beat until thick and spread quickly. A little chocolate may 
be added for variety, or chopped nuts or cocoanut, etc. 

MAEGXTEBITE WAFERS 
Take " Long Branch " wafer crackers and spread with 
plain-boiled frosting, or add nuts, chocolate, cocoanut, etc. 
Put in oven a moment to dry, but not brown. Dainty to 
serve with lee Cream, Ices and Sherbet. 

GINGER BREAD, 2600 CALORIES 

1 egg. % cup boiling water. 

1 cup molasses. 1 teaspoon ginger. 

7 tablespoons melted butter. 1% cups bread flour or 

1 teaspoon soda. 2% cups pastry flour. 

Beat egg in mixing bowl ; add molasses, melted butter, and 
gradually one cup of flour. To the remaining flour add the 
soda and ginger, sift and add to mixture; beat well and add 
the boiling water. Bake in well-greased and floured gem tins, 
or shallow pan, in a hot oven about twenty minutes. Test 
with a fine (washed) darning needle; when it comes out clear, 
or the cake shrinks from the pan the cake is done. 



PAET III 

HOSPITAL DIETARIES 

DIET IF DISEASE 

DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 



CHAPTER XIII 

HOSPITAL DIETAEIES 

GENERAL TYPES OF DIET USED IN HOSPITALS 

IlftTJID OR rmiD FOODS 

Acid, starchy and miscellaneous drinks. Eaw eggs in the 
form of all albuminous drinks. Milk in different ways as 
given in recipes under chapter; thus milk may be flavored 
with cocoa, chocolate, coffee or meat broth; diluted with lime 
water, Apollinaris or Vichy ; combined with starchy drinks or 
strained gruels. Broths of various kinds; beef juice; beef 
tea ; beef extract. Soups, both clear and creamy ; oysters and 
clams. 

SOFT OR SEHI-SOIID FOOD 

Milk and water gruels. Water, milk or creamy toast. 
Starchy and meat jellies. Custards in various forms. Whips 
and souffles. Junkets, cornstarch puddings or blanc-mange, 
gelatins. Ice cream, sherbet, ices. Plain cream, butter, olive 
oil, mayonnaise dressing, cod liver oil, plain or emulsified. 

SOLID FOODS 

Gruels and mushes. Various forms of bread, toast and 
crackers. Eggs prepared in many forms. Meats cooked in 
various ways; as beef, mutton, lamb; chicken, turkey or 
game; sweetbreads; fish, oysters, clams. Suitable vegetables 
and fruits. 

TYPICAL DIETS FEOM VARIOUS HOSPITALS 

LIGHT DIET i 
(or Convalescent Diet) 
Breakfast. — Milk, tea, coflFee flr cocoa ( with milk and sugar ) . 
Bread and butter, white bread, graham bread or toast. 
Cereals with cream. Eggs ( any style except fried ) . Fruit : 
fresh in season or dried. ^ 

1 Diet used at Nathan Littauer Hospital, Gloversville, New York. 

323 



324 HOSPITAL DIETARIES 

Dinner. — Tea (milk). Soup, with stock or broths; or cream soup. 
Crackers, bread and butter. Eggs: soft boiled or poached or 
raw (if desired ) . Vegetables : baked or stuffed potato or rice. 
Desserts: light puddings or ices or ice cream or jellies or 
custards or fresh or stewed fruits or baked apples. 

•Supper. — Tea (milk). Fruit: (fresh in season), dried, canned or 
preserved. Bread and butter: white bread, toast, Inilk toast; 
egg or fruit sandwich. Vegetables: baked or stuffed potato, 
creamed baked potato; rice, baked bananas or macaroni 
(plain).. Eggs (any style except fried). Light puddings or 
custards, jellies, plain cakes. 

TYPICAL LIGHT DIET i 

Breakfast. — Oranges, coffee with milk and sugar, or tea ; milk, cream 

of wheat, eggs (spft cooked in shell), toast. 
Dinner. — Tea and milk, soup, crackers, bread and butter, baked 

potato, snow pudding., y- 
Supper. — Tea, milk, bread and butter, steamed rice, canned peaches, 

cake, jelly, 

MILK DIET 2 
IJuring the day give 6 to 8 ounces eVery two hours. 
During the night give 6 to 8 ounces every three hours. 
(When very ill give every two hours during the night.) 

FLUID DIETS 
Milk, beef tea, chicken broth, mutton broth, egg albumin. 

SOFT DIET 3 

Cereals, soft eggs, milk toast, custard, farinaceous puddings, tea, 
coffee, cocoa, milk. 

SOFT SOLIDS 1 

Soft toast, soft eggs, crackers in milk or broth, jellies of all kinds, 
ice cream, soft puddings without raisins, liquids of all kinds, soups 
strained, very weak tea, coffee or cocoa. 

Avoid: meat, potatoes, vegetables. 

LIQUID OB, FAKINACEOTTS i 

Cereals, bread, jellies, liquids, ice cream, custard, blanc-mange, 
puddings (without raisins), chicken. 

1 Diet used at Nathan Littauer Hospital, Gloversville, New York. 

2 Diet used at Bellevue Hospital, New York. 

8 Diet used at the Presbyterian Hospital, New York. 

* Diet used at the Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston. 



TYPICAL HOSPITAL DIETS 335 

PAKINACEOTJS DIET i 

Breakfast. — Tea or cofifee (milk and sugar). Bread and butter: 
white bread or graham bread or rolls or muffins or toast. 
Cereals. 

Dinner. — Soup : vegetable or macaroni or barley broth. Bread or 
crackers. Vegetables: baked potatoes or tomatoes or French 
beans or rice or macaroni or samp. Puddings: rice or bread 
or cracker or tapioca or farina or cornstarch or arrowroot. 

Supper. — Tea (milk and sugar). Bread and milk or milk toast or 
hominy or boiled rice or puffed rice with custards or milk or 
farina or banana or potatoes baked. Fruit: apples (stewed 
or baked) or prunes or pears or peaches or apricots (other 
fruits ) . 

NITROGENOirS DIET 2 

Meat, fish, eggs (not fried), oysters, junket, custard, ice cream, 
string beans, soup and oatmeal; with crackers, fruit, butter and let- 
tuce. 
Breakfast. — Milk or tea or coffee (with milk). Bread and butter: 

graham bread. Meats: eggs or fresh fish or stew without 

vegetables or meat or hash without potatoes. 
Dinner. — Soup : stock or chowder, graham bread. Meats : beef 

(roast or boiled) or fresh fish or Irish stew. Vegetables: 

spinach, lettuce, celery or string beans. Desserts: custards. 
Supper. — Tea (milk), graham bread and butter or bread and milk, 

eggs or cold meat. 

NUTRIENT DIETS 

Two eggs strained through muslin into a tablespoon of cold 
water until dissolved. Add this to four to six ounces of cold 
milk, add one-half drachm salt, dissolved in water. If pa- 
tient is very low add tincture opii (deodorized). At times 
beef juice, one-half drachm is added, but is not necessary. 

OXALTJRIA DIET 2 
Oxaluria, as the name signifies, is an excess of oxalate of 
lime in the form of crystals in the urine, usually affecting the 
nervous, irritable dyspeptic. It is considered that possibly the 

1 Diet used at Nathan Littauer Hospital, Gtoversville, New York. 
' Diet used at the Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston. 
3 Elbridge J. Cutler, M.D. : Diet used at the Massachusetts General Hos- 
pital, Boston, Mass. 



326 HOSPITAL DIETARIES 

frequency of the disease among the poorer classes is due to 
an excessive vegetable diet, sugar and starch foods, com- 
bined with irritating activities. The diet should be carefully 
regulated, though liberal. All vegetables and drugs contain- 
ing oxalates must be avoided; all lime or hard vrater should 
be forbidden and replaced by boiled or distilled water. Sugar 
should be prohibited, cofEee and tea replaced by milk. 

Avoid asparagus, celery, cauliflower, green beans, tomatoes, 
spinach, rhubarb, potatoes, sorrel, carrots, parsnips, berries, 
apples, pears, plums, grapes, chocolate and cocoa. Cut carbo- 
hydrates low. Give this: (1) eggs, toast, milk; (2) meat or 
fish, green vegetables, except those forbidden; peas, onions, 
custard, fruit, ice cream; (3) cereals, cold meat, cooked fruit, 
except forbidden forms. 

STRICT SUGAR-FREE DIET 
Massachusetts General Hospital i 

See " Diabetic Diet." Page 357. 

SPECIAL FAT-FREE DIET i 
Breakfast. — Lean meat, 100 gms. ; toasted bread, 50 gms. ; coffee with 

a little milk and saccharine (no butter, no cream, no sugar). 

11 A. M., albumin water of 2 eggs. 
in 0011. — Clear soup, fat-free; bread, 50 gms.; lean meat, 100 gms. 

4 p. M., albumin water of 2 eggs. 
Supper. — Lean meat, 100 gms.; bread, 30 gms.; rice, 50 gms. 

• SALT-FREE DIET i 
See Nephritis Diet. Page 393. 

TEST DIETS 1 

Much stress is laid upon test-diets in order to determine the 
ability of the patient to properly assimilate fats, proteins or 
carbohydrates. These test-diets are known as " fat-free days," 
" sugar-free days," " vegetable days," " oatmeal days," and a 
diet giving the proper amount of bulk, containing little pro- 
teids and carbohydrates, with the caloric value of the fat so 
low that it is styled " starvation days." 

* Diet used at the Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston. 



TYPICAL HOSPITAL DIETS 337 

The main test-diet is the Schmidt diet as modified by Dr. 
Hewes.^ It runs three days, beginning with breakfast, and 
is as follows : 

Schmidt Diet 

Morning. — Fifty grammes zwieback; % litre oatmeal gruel, made 
of 40 gms. rolled oats, 200 c.c. milk, 300 e.c. water, 1 egg, 10 
gms. butter. 11 a.m., % litre milk. 

Noon. — 125 gms. chopped beef broiled and made palatable with 20 
gms. butter; 250 gms. potato mashed with 10 gms. butter; 50 
gms. toast. 4 P. M., one-half litre mild. 

Tfight. — Same as morning. ( Stools third and fourth days. ) It is 
carefully weighed, measured, and prepared, and one-fifth ad- 
ditional of the amount served is sent to the laboratory for 
analysis. All the patient does not consume is weighed and 
deducted; all urine and feces are calculated. 

HOSPITAL EXTRA DIET 2 

Chicken, eggs, stale bread and toast, scraped beef, sand- 
wiches, blanc-mange, soft custard without raisins; raw oys- 
ters, milk, broths, gruels, soups, milk whey, oranges, lemonade, 
crackers, jelly,' ice cream, weak tea, coSee or cocoa. 

FISH DIET 

Consists of a ration of bread, ten ounces, and fish, eight 
ounces (the uncooked measure), such as haddock, cod or sole, 
or similar fish, potatoes, eight ounces, cocoa, one ounce, with 
half an ounce of sugar and a sixth of a pint of milk. 

This is a serviceable form of diet for those for whom large 
quantities of meat are not only unnecessary but injurious. 

BROTH DIET 
In children's hospitals a diet is sometimes classified as the 
"broth diet," consisting of mutton broth flavored with veg- 
etables, and bread and butter, with milk ; or a " beef tea diet," 
in which beef tea replaces the broth. In the lighter diet of 
children, gruels, bread and molasses, and simple farinaceous 

1 Dr. Hewes, Physician to Out-Patients, Massachusetts General Hospital. 
'Diet used at the Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston. 



328 HOSPITAL DIETARIES 

foods such as farina, cornstarcli, rice, etc., should play an 
important role. Sometimes such a diet goes under the name 
of " soft food." 

HESTRICTED DIET 

Breakfast. — Tea or coffee (with milk and sugar). Farinaceous food 
( with milk ) . Eggs. 

Dinner. — Soup; raw oysters, roast beef, steak or chicken and veg- 
etables. Pudding ( bread, rice, tapioca or cornstarch ) . 

Supper. — Tea ( with milk and sugar ) . Bread (with butter). Fruit 
(fresh or dried) . 

BELIEVUE HOSPITAL IN THE CITY OF HEW YORK, 1910 
Dietary Table for Patients 

MONDAY 
Breakfast. — CoflFee, with milk and sugar, bread and butter, oatmeal, 

crackers, milk (1 qt. ) . 
Dinner. — Eoast beef, rice, soup, potatoes, vegetables, bread. 
Supper. — Tea ( with milk and sugar ) , bread and butter, stewed 

apples. 

TUESDAY 
Breakfast. — Cofifee (with milk and sugar), bread and butter, hominy, 

crackers, milk (1 qt.). 
Dinner. — Mutton stew, potatoes, vegetables, bread, bread pudding. 
Supper. — Tea ( with milk and sugar ) , bread and butter, prunes. 

WEDNESDAY 
Breakfast. — CoflFce ( with milk and sugar ) , bread and butter, rice, 

crackers, milk (1 qt. ) . 
Dinner. — Roast beef, barley soup, potatoes, bread. 
Supper. — Tea (with milk and sugar), bread and butter, stewed 

prunes. 

THURSDAY 
Breakfast. — Coffee (with milk and sugar), bread and butter, oatmeal 

crackers, milk (1 qt. ) . 
Dinner. — Beef stew, potatoes, vegetables, bread. 
Supper. — Tea (with milk and sugar), bread and butter, stewed 

apricots. 

FRIDAY 
Breakfast. — Coffee ( with milk and sugar ) , bread and butter, two 

eggs, crackers, milk (1 qt. ) . 
Dinner. — ■ Baked fish, potatoes, vegetables, bread, rice pudding. 
Supper. — Tea (with milk and sugar), bread and butter, prunes. 



TYPICAL HOSPITAL DIETS 329 

SATUEDAY 

Breakfast. — Coffee (with milk and sugar), bread and butter, hominy, 
crackers, milk (1 qt. ) . 

Dinner. — Mutton stew, potatoes, vegetables, bread. 

Supper. — Tea (with milk and sugar), bread and butter, stewed 
prunes, apples. 

SUNDAY 

Breakfast. — Coffee (with milk and sugar), bread and butter, crack- 
ers, milk (1 qt. ), two eggs. 

Dinner. — Corn beef, bean soup, potatoes, bread, cornstarch pudding. 

Supper. — Tea (with milk and sugar), bread and butter, prunes. 

MILK DIET^ 
To be prescribed by the attending physician or surgeons. 

ARTICLES OF SPECIAL DIET 
Beefsteak, beef tea, chicken, chicken soup, rice and milk, eggs, 
milk. 

DIETARY OF THE PRESBYTERIAN HOSPITAL IN THE CITY OE 
NEW YORK, 1910 

HOUSE DIET 

Breakfast. — Tea or coffee (milk and sugar). Bread and butter: 
White bread or Graham bread or corn bread or rolls or toast. 
Porridge: Oatmeal or wheaten-grits or Indian meal or hom- 
iny or farina or samp. Meats: Hash or eggs or salt fish 
or fresh fish or stew. 

Dinner. — Soup : Stock or mutton broth with barley or vegetable or 
chowder; dry bread. Meats: Beef (roast or boiled) or mut- 
ton (roast or boiled) or corned beef or fresh fish or Irish 
stew. Vegetables: Potatoes, baked, boiled or mashed and 
tomatoes or baked beans or French beans or turnips or 
beets or rice or macaroni or samp. Pudding: Rice or bread 
or tapioca or farina or cornstarch or custard. 

Supper. — Tea (sugar and milk), bread and butter or toast and 
butter. Fruit: Apples stewed or baked or prunes or pears. 

CONVALESCENT DIET 
Breakfast. — Tea or coffee (milk and sugar). Bread and butter. 

White bread or Graham bread or corn bread or rolls or toast. 

Porridge: Hominy or farina. Meats: Eggs or fresh fish or 

stew (plain). 
Dinner. — Soup : Stock or chicken or mutton broth with barley or 

vegetable. Dry bread. Meats: Beef (roast or boiled) or 



330 HOSPITAL DIETARIES 

chicken or fish (fresh). Vegetables: Potatoes (baked) or rice 
or macaroni or samp. Pudding: Rice or bread or tapioca or 
farina or cornstarch or custard. 
Supper. — Tea (milk and sugar). Bread and milk or milk toast or 
bread and butter or toast and butter. Fruit: Apples stewed 
or baked or prunes or pears. 

NITROGENOUS DIET 
Breakfast. — Tea or coffee (milk), bread and butter, Graham bread. 

Meats: Eggs or fresh fish or stew without vegetables or meat, 

hash without potatoes. 
Dinner. — Soup : Stock or chowder, Graham bread. Meats : Beef 

(roast or boiled) o;; mutton (roast or boiled) or fresh fish or 

Irish stew. Vegetables: Spinach or lettuce or celery or 

string beans. Pudding: Custard. 
Supper. — Tea (milk), Graham bread and butter or bread and milk, 

eggs or cold meat. 

FARINACEOUS DIET 
Breakfast. — Tea or coffee (milk and sugar). Bread and butter: 

White bread or Graham bread or corn bread or rolls or toast. 

Porridge: Hominy or farina or Indian meal. 
Dinner. — Soup : Vegetable or macaroni or barley broth ; dry bread. 

Vegetables: Baked potatoes and tomatoes or French beans 

or rice or macaroni or samp. Pudding: Rice or bread or 

tapioca or farina or cornstarch. 
Supper. — Tea (milk and sugar ) bread and milk or milk toast or 

hominy or boiled rice or farina. Fruit: Apples stewed or 

baked or prunes or pears. 

MILK DIET 
Breakfast. — One quart of milk. 
Dinner. — One quart of milk. 
Supper. — One quart of milk. 

EXTRAS 

OBDEEED ONLY BY THE ATTENDING PHYSICIAN OE SUKGEON 

Mutton chops, beef steak, scraped beef, beef tea (made with hydro- 
chloric acid), chicken (broiled, fricasseed or roast), chicken 
broth, eggs, milk, oysters, clam broth, gruels, crackers, ginger 
bread, custard, milk toast. 



CHAPTEE XIV 
DIET IN DISEASE 

One of the most striking differences between the older and 
more recent methods of treatment of disease is the careful 
attention bestowed upon the diet at the present day. For it is 
now recognized that the proper selection of food, both solid 
and fluid, is of as much importance as the use of medicaments. 
In the management of diseases affecting the digestive organs 
proper, and in all affections of metabolism (gout, obesity and 
diabetes, for example) the diet may be said to represent the 
treatment, and there is hardly any disease which may not be 
benefited by intelligent feeding. 

These matters, however, are left entirely to the medical prac- 
titioner, and it is only exceptionally that the nurse is required 
to assume any responsibility. She should know in a general 
way, however, the types of food suitable in different diseased 
conditions, so that she may avoid harmful foods when not 
given specific instructions, and so that she may adapt the 
prescribed diet to the tastes of the individual. For this pur- 
pose, an outline of the diets in use in common diseases is 
included in this volume. 

DIET IN FEVERS AND INFECTIOUS DISEASES 
DIET IN FEVER IN GENERAL 
In fevers due to poisons circulating in the blood, there is 
an interference with heat regulation, so that the heat gen- 
erated in the body cannot be gotten rid of in the normal 
way; an increased metabolism; and a disturbance of the di- 
gestive and absorptive functions. It is, therefore, desirable to 
give easily digested food, in small quantities at frequent in- 

331 



333 DIET IN DISEASE 

tervals, preferably in liquid form, as substances dissolved in 
water are more readily absorbed, and water tends to aid in 
cooling the body to normal temperature. 

For the first three or four days, patients previously strong, 
should be given only fluid foods. But since a normal man, 
lying quietly in bed, requires about 2000 calories to com- 
pensate for daily loss of energy, and in the increased metab- 
olism of fever, this requirement is increased, it is necessary 
that more substantial food be incorporated into the diet as far 
as is possible without disturbing digestion. 

DIET. — Milk is the staple food, but must be given with care, 
swallowed very slowly and diluted with limewater, soda, seltzer or 
other effervescent water — one part to two parts milk. 

If milk can be taken, two or three pints should be given — four 
ounces every two hours, or six ounces every three hours. In case 
milk does not agree, whey may be given as a substitute for milk in 
part or in whole. Modified milk or peptonized milk may be given. 
Sometimes the milk may be flavored with tea, cofi'ee, cocoa or 
malted milk and junket used. 

Next to milk the most important article of diet is beef juice and 
broths. Next come well cooked gruels. Later well prepared cereals 
and malt extract are valuable, and plain or cocoa junkets. Usually 
there is thirst, and all acid drinks, such as grape juice, may be taken. 

Panopepton with crushed ice, peptonised milk, clam, mutton and 
chicken broth, beef tea, clear soups, thickened with some farinaceous 
substance, gelatin jellies, are all of value. 

Liquids. — • Pure cold water, toast water, any of the acid drinks, 
all sipped slowly, are recommended both to relieve thirst and on 
account of facilitating the speed with which the waste matter re- 
sulting from increased metabolism of the fever is eliminated through 
the kidneys. 

AVOID. — ^Any solid or vegetable food or fruits, until permitted 
by the physician in charge. 

DIET IN CONVALESCENCE FIIOII PEVER 
Thompson i 

Convalescents who have long subsisted solely upon fluids 
must be careful in resuming solid diet, for the rapidity of 
recuperation of the digestive organs varies in different per- 

^ W. Gilman Thompson, M.D. : "Practical Dietetics." New York. B. 
Appleton & Co. 



FEVERS AND INFECTIOUS DISEASES 333 

sons, and taking meats or other solid foods too soon may cause 
rise in temperature, rapid heart action, and possibly visceral 
congestion. The first meat given, therefore, should be in a 
finely subdivided state, such as scraped beef or minced chicken. 

During convalescence from protracted fevers the more 
easily digested forms of starchy foods are found to be very 
useful, especially if there has been much loss of weight. Sago 
and tapioca, and dried bread crumbs rolled through a fine 
sieve may be added to thicken clear meat broths. Crackers 
and zwieback are useful. 

Other ingredients which may be added to thicken soups 
during convalescence are panada, semolina, tapioca, and maca- 
roni. Custard puddings, cooked fruit, wine and beef jellies, 
blanc-mange, or baked custard, may be allowed. " Mush," 
fine hominy, cornstarch, farina, and boiled rice, with beef 
juice, can be ordered. 

The following dietary will serve as a general guide for 
feeding convalescents from fevers of ordinary severity in 
"which special lesions of the alimentary canal are not present. 

FIRST DAY 
Breakfast. — Poached egg on toast. Cocoa. 
Lunch. — Milk punch. 

Dinner. — Eaw oysters. Cream crackers. Light wine if desired. 
Lunch. — One cup of hot meat broth. 
Supper. — Milk toast. Wine jelly. Tea. 

SECOND DAY 
Breakfast. — Soft cooked egg. Milk punch. Coffee with sugar and 

cream. 
Lunch. — One cup of soft custard. 
Dinner. — Cream of celery soup. Sippets of toast. A little harley 

pudding, with cream. Sherry wine if desired. 
Lunch. — Milk punch. 
Supper. — Water toast, buttered. Wine jelly. Tea. 

THIRD DAY 
Breakfast. — Coddled eggs. Cream toast. Cocoa. 
Lunch. — One cup of hot chicken broth. 

Dinner. — Chicken panada. Bread. Light wine if desired. A little 
tapioca cream. 



334 BIET IN DISEAiiE 

Lunch. — An eggnog. 

Supper. — Buttered dry toast. Baked sweet apples and cream. Tea. 

FOURTH DAY 
Breakfast. — An orange. Oatmeal (H. 0.), with cream and sugar. 

Poached egg on toast. Baked potato. Cocoa. 
Lunch. — One cup of hot, soft custard. 
Dinner. — Potato soup. CroUtons. A small piece of beefsteak. 

Creamed potatoes. Baked custard. Coffee. 
Lunch. — One cup of chicken broth, with rice. 
Supper. — Raw oysters. Banquet crackers. Graham bread, toasted 

Wine jelly. Tea. 

FIFTH DAY 

Breakfast. — An orange. Coffee. Oatmeal, with cream and sugar. 
Broiled mutton chop. Toast. 

Lunch. — One cup of mulled wine. 

Dinner. — Chicken soup. Bread. Creamed sweetbreads. Duchess po- 
tatoes. Snow pudding. Cocoa. 

Lunch. — Siphon soda, with coffee syrup and cream. 

Supper. — Buttered dry toast. Orange jelly. Sponge cake and 
cream. Tea. 

A further discussion of this topic will be found in the sec- 
tion upon Convalescence in Typhoid Fever. 

While brandy and whiskey constitute the best form in 
which to give alcohol in the acute stage of fever, in con- 
valescence it is often advisable to use some other alcoholic 
drink, and an occasional change from one variety to another 
renders the patient somewhat less liable to the danger of 
acquiring a permanent alcoholic habit. For convalescence, 
if the patient's purse can afford it, champagne, port wine, 
sherry, Madeira, or a good claret or Burgundy, may be taken 
with advantage, in the class of cases above mentioned. 

TYPHOID FEVER 

The modern dietetics of typhoid may be conveniently con- 
sidered under three plans of feeding as follows : 

1. Starvation Treatment of Typhoid. This ancient method 
of feeding or omitting to feed typhoid patients has recently 
been revived with alleged good results, but those who have 
tested the method are thus far few in number and it is very 



FEVERS AND INFECTIOUS DISEASES 335 

unlikely that the profession as a whole will ever adopt it, 
especially since we know what may be done with liberal feed- 
ing. Typhoid subjects are commonly young, vigorous and 
well nourished and can naturally subsist for a long time on 
their own stored-up nutriment ; while by " starvation " they 
are protected from intestinal fermentation of undigested food. 
Hence such patients may seem to do well for a number of 
days on water alone given in unlimited quantities. But this 
represents but one aspect, and that a narrow one, in the prob- 
lem of feeding typhoid patients, and is applicable only to 
particular cases and particular stages of such cases. Much 
would also depend, perhaps, on other methods of treatment 
in use. Thus if the fever were kept down by cold baths, 
the demand for nutriment would doubtless be less than were 
the fever allowed to pursue its course. 

With advancing age the mortality rate increases greatly, and 
patients above thirty-five or forty doubtless require nutri- 
ment to a greater extent than the youthful. 

2. Liquid Diet in Typhoid. This consists chiefly of milk, 
varied with broths and cereal decoctions. The milk which is 
the mainstay, is given in amounts up to two quarts in twenty- 
four hours, other articles being given only now and then to 
vary the monotony. Milk may itself be administered in 
various forms — peptonised milk, whey, malted milk and 
junket, kumyss and artificially-soured milk.* Water is also 
given freely. This mode of dieting has been for many years 
the prevailing one for the acutely dangerous period of the 
disease, having succeeded the earlier beef tea diet. Under 
liquid diet may also be mentioned the various predigested 
foods, which, by reason of their concentrated state, are of 
value when there is difficulty in ingesting enough milk to 
make up the proper fuel value for the day. 

Of late years, it has been claimed that milk is unsuited 
for diet in typhoid because it forms an ideal culture medium 
for bacteria. A much older objection is the necessary forma- 
tion of irritating curds from the cows' milk usually given. 
This last objection has been met to some extent by peptonisa- 

* Ewald recommends Sanatoffen in milk and broth. 



336 DIET IN DISEASE 

tion of the milk, and by ingesting it very slawly, so that n& 
large clot can quickly form. Milk already curdled and emul- 
sified, as in the form of kumyss and other fermented products 
escapes this objection, and is less favorable to putrefaction. 
But the most weighty objection to a fluid diet is probably 
found in the belief that it gives too few calo^ries in propor- 
tion to the volume of food injected, and hence like the 
starvation treatment is not adapted for routine use but only 
for special cases and special periods. 

3. Liberal or Generous Diet. This in its widest sense ia 
doubtless the only sound routine plan, for it permits the use 
of semi-solid food if the patient can take it and digest it. 
It allows considerable variety, for such dishes as custard, ice 
cream, arrowroot, calf's foot jelly and the like, usually re- 
served for convalescence, may often be taken safely at an 
early period in the disease. There is, in fact^ hardly any 
line drawn as to how far a person may go, provided he does 
not go beyond the dietary proper for delicaite stomachs. 
Baked potato, baked apple, rice pudding, water toast and 
similar articles are gradually added to the diet and even lamb 
chop and soft-boiled eggs are given while the temperature is 
still elevated. This, of course, is in direct violation of the 
older rule of giving liquid food until fever has completely 
subsided. The justification appears to lie in the fact that 
liberal diet often saves life, and in cases where the chances 
seem against recovery it is one of the reserve cards to play. 
Because if the patient is likely to die in any case, the solid 
diet, if it can be tolerated, cannot add to the risk and may 
be of incalculable value. This observation was made long 
ago in connection with such diseases as childbed fever, blood 
poisoning, erysipelas, meningitis, gangrene and similar mala- 
dies with a natural tendency to go from bad to worse; and 
the severest types of typhoid belong in the same category of 
diseases. 

Note. — " High Caloric Feeding " in typhoid which has been 
tested in recent years is known as the high calorie,, in which 
it is aimed to give the patient far more eateries than he 



FEVERS AND INFECTIOUS DISEASES 337 

should utilize in health, even at the hardest labor and on the 
most liberal diet. This is the exact antithesis of the water 
or starvation diet, in which the patient subsists on his own 
tissues. In the high caloric plan the theory is to supply 
such an excess of nutriment that the least possible loss of tis- 
sue occurs; so that the period of convalescence and recupera- 
tion should be greatly shortened. Certain physicians have 
actually claimed a gain in weight during the fever under 
plans of this character. It is obviously very difficult to feed 
typhoid patients with food having the highest calorific value. 
Even the blandest fats are badly tolerated, as is also cane 
sugar. It is possible, however, to use glucose, dextrin, and 
especially lactose, along with brandy, more or less in connec- 
tion with ordinary feeding, to such a degree that in in- 
dividual cases the number of calories in the ordinary liberal 
diet may be practically doubled. 

Whatever shortcomings exist in connection with caloric 
feeding are naturally increased with the amount of food. 
There is practically no limit to what can be ingested in 
twenty-four hours, but there may be a limit to utilization. 
The amount of calories actually used can only be determined 
by painstaking investigation of the excreta. There is also 
great individual variation in the oxidation of special food- 
stuffs, as is seen notably in alcohol. The greater the daily 
intake, the greater the difSculty in establishing common 
standards. For this and other reasons it is best to regard 
caloric feeding as merely a check on the older methods and 
on common experience. It is hardly likely, therefore, that 
high caloric feeding will ever come into vogue, although it 
may have a field in the individual case or at some special 
period in a case. 

IiaUID DIET IN TYPHOID FEVER 

In the ordinary case, two and a half pints of milk and a 

pint and a half of beef, mutton or chicken broth will be a fair 

average supply, given in divided quantities, alternately. 

Give ten ounces at a time, every three hours; the broths will 



338 DIET IN DISEASE 

come in after every second supply of milk. The amount of 
meat broths must be governed by the state of the bowels. If 
diarrhoea, then broths must not be given, or should be 
given in very small quantities. 

Broths tend to increase diarrhoea. In some cases ftieat jelly 
iced or extract of meat may be taken in place of broths, a 
teaspoon being given at a time. 

The chief guide in the matter of food in typhoid must be 
found in the condition of the stools. The physician in charge 
of the case should himself see the feces daily. If any signs 
of undigested food appear, there is something regarding the 
dietary that is wrong. If masses of hard curd appear in the 
motion, there is probably too much milk given in the twenty- 
four hours, or it is being given in too large quantities at a 
time. 

It may be that the quantities are not wrong, and that dilu- 
tion of the milk, or the addition of an alkali, or of some 
farinaceous material in powder well cooked in milk will an- 
swer the purpose by preventing the formation of the firm 
curd. 

Milk, if not retained or digested, should be peptonised. 

The chill may be taken from milk by adding a little hot 
water, and twenty drops of the saccharated solution of lime 
in each supply will secure alkalinity. Farinaceous substances 
to use in milk are arrowroot and baked flour, to aid in subdi- 
vision of the curd. Food should not be given as the nurse 
sees fit, but definite directions should be laid down as to the 
quantity to be given at a time and the mode of its administra- 
tion. 

Indication for the use of alcohol lies in the condition of 
the heart. A small, frequent, easily compressed pulse, espe- 
cially if associated with feebleness of the first sound of the 
heart, is a clear indication that alcohol is required. The 
amount given should be small — from a teaspoon to a table- 
spoon, or one ounce of wine. 

Alcohol, on account of effect only lasting for a short time, 
should be given every two hours, so that stimulation is kept 



FEVERS AND INFECTIOUS DISEASES 339 

up. In giving alcohol, you get an effect first of stimulation, 
then depression. 

The use of alcohol is not advocated by some physicians. 

TYPHOID FiriD DIET OF PBESBYTERIAN HOSPITAL i 

Milk, broth, egg albumin. 

TYPHOID FLUID DIET OF GLOVERSVILLE HOSPITAL ? 

Milk, strained broths of chicken, mutton, beef, clam broth, 
barley water, farina, arrowroot and other gruels, custards, egg- 
nog, weak tea, bouillon, junket, cream, egg albumin, gelatin. 

DIET IN CONVALESCENCE FROM TYPHOID 
Thompson 3 

As the fever subsides, it becomes an important question 
how soon to allow a return to solid food. Eelapses are very 
easily induced by indiscretion in this regard. 

The patient's appetite is always a dangerous guide to fol- 
low in this disease. After four or five weeks of an exclusive 
milk or milk and broth diet, when the temperature subsides, 
and often before it has become normal, he becomes ravenous. 
Like a long-starved man, he thinks of nothing but food, and 
demands something new to eat every day. A hospital ward 
containing a dozen convalescing typhoid fever patients, is 
difficult to manage, as a bread riot is constantly menaced. Ill- 
advised but sympathetic friends attempt to smuggle in all 
manner of forbidden fruits, and the patient Just arrived at 
the hungry state is tempted to steal solid food from his more 
advanced neighbors. 

In the milder cases it is undoubtedly both safe and wise 
to allow a strengthening diet at an early date, and it will 
greatly prolong convalescence to forbid it. Light farinaceous 
diet — tapioca, rice, vermicelli, cream-toast, a cracker soaked 
in cream, etc. — may be given with impunity in cases which 
have run a mild course,, as soon as the temperature remains 

1 Diet used at the Presbyterian Hospital, New York. 
" Diet used at the Nathan Littauer Hospital, Gloversvllle, N. Y. 
' W. Gilman Thompson, M.D. : "Practical Dietetics." New York. D. 
Appleton & Co. 



340 DIET IN DISEASE 

normal. Meat broth may be thickened with rice, sago, or 
vermicelli. In a day or two more, the soft part of oysters 
or a chop are permissible in cases which have presented no 
need of prolonging a fluid diet for fear of intestinal injury. 
The following is a list of fluids suitable for the different 
days of convalescence, commencing a day or two after disap- 
pearance of all fever. Milk should still be given, until grad- 
ually wholly replaced by solid food : 

DIET IN TYPHOID AFTER TWO DAYS OF NORMAL TEMPERA- 
TURE i 
First Day. — Chicken broth thickened with thoroughly boiled rice. 

Milk toast or cream toast once only during the day. Beef 

juice. 
Second Day. — Junket, mutton broth, and bread crumbs. Cocoa. 

Milk toagt. A piece of tender steak may be chewed but not 

swallowed. One of the prepared farinaceous foods, such as 

Horlick's, may be given with a cup of hot milk. 
Third Day. — A small scraped beef sandwich at noon. A soft cooked 

egg or baked custard for supper. Boiled rice or potato purge 

strained. Arrowroot gruel. 
Fourth Day. — The soft part of three or four oysters. Meat broth 

thickened with a beaten egg. Cream toast. Rice pudding or 

blanc-mange and whipped cream, or Bavarian cream. 
Fifth Day. — Scraped beef sandwich. A tender sweetbread. Bread 

and milk. A poached egg. Wine jelly or calf's foot jelly. 

Macaroni. 
Sixth Day. — Mush or crackers and milk, scrambled eggs, chicken 

jelly. Bread and butter. The soft parts of raw oysters. 
Seventh Day. — A small piece of tenderloin steak or a little breast of 

broiled chicken. Bread and butter. Boiled rice. Wine jelly. 

Sponge cake and whipped cream. 
Eighth Day. — A slice of tender rare roast beef, a, thoroughly baked 

mealy potato served with butter or mashed with cream. 

Other food as before. 
'Ninth Day. — A little broiled fresh fish for breakfast. Beef steak at 

dinner. Rice, macaroni, eggs. Sago, rice, or milk pudding. 

A baked apple. 
Tenth Day. — Mush and milk. A squab or breast of partridge or 

roast chicken. Other foods as before. Ice cream. 

■'W. Gilman Thompson, M.D. : "Practical Dietetics." New York. D. 
Appleton & Co. 



FEVERS AND INFECTIOUS DISEASES 341 

For the next four or five days the patient may select 
articles from the menu of the previous day, so that three 
good meals a day are taken, besides three or four glasses of 
milk between meals. 

It is often desirable to give a little alcoholic stimulant, 
especially if there is much difference in the frequency of the 
pulse between lying and sitting or standing, or if the pulse 
rate is very low, say 56, a,s it sometimes is. A glass of sherry 
or a good, sound Burgundy, or a tumbler of ale may be 
drunk, but with meals only. 

DIET IN TYPHOID AFTER TWO WEEKS OF NORMAL TEMPERA- 
TURE 
Presbyterian Hospital i 
Strained vegetable soups, baked apples, baked potatoes, oat- 
meal. 

TYPHOID DELICACIES 
Presbyterian Hospital i 
Eice (well cooked), junket, custard, gruels, milk toast, 
scraped beef, eggs. 

TYPHOID EXTRA DIET 
Presbyterian Hospital i 

Broths, beef soups, oysters, white fish, beef, chops, mutton, 
steak, custard, eggs, chicken, rice, white bread, toast, farina- 
ceous puddings. 

Avoid vegetables, fruit, pastry or hot bread. 

LIBERAL DIET IN TYPHOID FEVER 
Shattuck - 
When typhoid fever kills it does so either by perforation 
or exhaustion, the proportion of the former being estimated 
at 5 to 10 per cent. The main factors in producing the ex- 
haustion which causes the death of at least nine-tenths of the 
fatal cases are toxemia, continued fever, diarrhoea and vomit- 

^ Diet used at the Presbyterian Hospital, New York. 

2 Frederick C. Shattuck, M.D. — Bead by title in the Section on Practice 
of Medicine at the Forty-eighth Annual Meeting of the American Medical 
Association at Philadelphia, Pa., June 1-4, 1897. 



343 DIET IN DISEASE 

ing, and intestinal hemorrhage. The heart is ordinarily the 
best index of the presence and degree of exhaustion, and the 
most frequent serious pulmonary complication, hypostasis, in 
its various forms, degrees and consequences, is the direct out- 
growth of the cardiac weakness. Moreover, typhoid fever is 
not short and sharp like pneumonia, but of long course, and 
usually attended with decided, often with very great wasting 
of the muscular and fatty tissues. 

Most of us are agreed that we are not as yet acquainted 
with any therapeutic measures which will either abort or very 
materially shorten the course of the disease. We are, I think, 
unanimous in believing that husbanding the strength from 
the start through skillful nursing, the judicious use of water 
externally and internally, and the supervision of a wise at- 
tendant on the watch for and prepared to meet such indica- 
tions as may arise, materially modifies the course of the dis- 
ease and lessens its mortality. If what I have assumed to be 
facts be really facts, the question of diet must be a very 
important one in the management of typhoid fever. It is 
through the food which is assimilated, not through that which 
is merely put into the stomach, that we seek to limit the tis- 
sue waste while the process is active, and also try to land the 
patient on the low shore of convalescence with as much of his 
property as may be; for the recovery of his property is a 
necessary preliminary to the attainment of the high tableland 
of full health. 

Under the old doctrines as to inflammation, fever was an 
unfailing indication for depletion; directly by venesection, 
pukes, sweats and purges; indirectly by starvation. Indis- 
criminate direct depletion is now a thing of the past, and 
since the time of Todd the fact has gradually been more and 
more clearly recognized that the febrile state is often an 
indication for more, rather than less, nourishment, with selec- 
tion as to quality, rather than diminution as to quantity. In 
the shorter essential fevers a few days' starvation cannot do 
much harm, and may even be of great service with a certain 
class of patients. But suppurative fever for instance, whether 



FEVERS AND INFECTIOUS DISEASES 343 

of tubercular or other origin, especially if chronic, we feed 
to the largest limit; and we do this because we treat the con- 
dition and not the disease, individualizing our cases. Since 
our knowledge of gastric chemistry has been enriched by the 
adaptation of the soft catheter to another hollow viscus at the 
opposite extremity of the abdomen, a more complete explana- 
tion has been afforded for the fact which we knew by practical 
experience before, that gastric digestion is often weakened in 
the febrile state. But the same practical experience teaches 
us that it is not always so, or yery materially so, and when 
theory and practice conflict, the former must prevail. Have 
we not fully escaped from the domination of the old doctrine 
as to the lowering treatment of inflammation, or are there 
valid reasons why we should be less bold in feeding our 
typhoid patients than our chronic febrile consumptives? 
Three such reasons deserve special consideration. In the first 
place, typhoid is far more frequently a self-limited disease 
than is phthisis ; but the fact of a self-limitation does not seem 
to me to warrant us in underfeeding, for the less the patient 
loses the less does he require to regain. In the second place, 
typhoid has constant intestinal lesions which may bleed or 
perforate, and which may be accompanied by a general 
catarrhal state of the intestinal tract. I may perhaps add 
here that diarrhoea is not nearly as constant a symptom in 
typhoid fever as the books lead students to believe. In at 
least 50 per cent, of my hospital cases no diarrhoea was pres- 
ent at any time. We must therefore have reference to the 
local intestinal lesions as well as to the general state. In 
a disease of such long course it is impossible to prevent acci- 
dents by putting the bowels in splints, even if it were de- 
sirable to do so. More or less peristalsis must- go on, and 
waste matter must pass over the ulcerated surfaces ; and how 
deep or extensive the ulcerated surface may be in any par- 
ticular case no symptom or group of symptoms enables us to 
measure. Hence, it seems rational, quite apart from the 
fever, to withhold from the diet any articles the residue of 
which is liable to irritate either the mucous membrane in 



344 DIET IN DISEASE 

general or the ulcerated portion in particular. This would 
seem a fair explanation for the popularity of milk as a diet 
for tj^phoid, containing as it does a large proportion of water, 
and every principle necessary to nutrition, so combined as to 
make relatively small demands on the digestion of most per- 
sons, and leaving a residue which, though notoriously large, 
is not mechanically irritating. The objection to milk is that 
it is repugnant to a few persons, and becomes either repugnant 
or monotonous to a considerable number sooner or later. It 
is not necessary here to specify the many expedients which 
may and often must be resorted to to overcome this objection, 
and in some cases to render it digestible whether palatable or 
not. Milk is likely to maintain a very important, perhaps 
leading place in the diet of typhoid, as well as of other dis- 
eases and conditions. For a number of years I adhered as 
strictly as possible to an exclusively milk diet in typhoid 
fever until at least a week had elapsed from the date of the 
first normal evening temperature. I closed my ears to the 
clamors of adults, and my eyes and heart to the tears of 
children, as I now believe, unnecessarily. Thirdly, it was 
only comparatively recently the general opinion of the pro- 
fession that relapse is or may be due to errors in diet. I 
well remember the time when a fresh access of fever led my 
teachers and me to carefully inquire into the kindness of 
officious friends. It was often proved that forbidden fruit 
actually or metaphorically had been brought in by a visitor, 
and this was an entirely satisfactory explanation. When 
proof could not be had, the fact of relapse was strong pre- 
sumptive evidence of sin. We know better now, and while 
we recognize that errors in diet may produce fever, as may 
fatigue or excitement in convalescence from any severe dis- 
ease, we do not believe that they can start up a fresh invasion 
of bacilli from within. One of the things which set me 
thinking on this question of the diet in typhoid was the 
favorable course run by several acute febrile cases for whom I 
ordered a full diet because they were weak; believing at the 
time of so doing that t5rphoid could be excluded, but being 



FEVERS AND INFECTIOUS DISEASES 345 

forced to the conclusion later that only typhoid fever could 
explain the whole course of the disease. These patients did 
perfectly well, were happier and convalesced more rapidly 
than my recognized typhoid cases fed exclusively on milk. 
For five years now, I have been enlarging the diet of my 
typhoid cases, and have seen no reason to regret this course, 
but, on the contrary, found cause for satisfaction. 

During the twelve years, 1886 to 1897 (both inclusive), 
380 cases of typhoid fever have come under my personal care 
in the Massachusetts General Hospital. From 1886 to 1893, 
233 cases were treated under a milk diet, with a mortality 
of 10 per cent. From 1893 to 1897, 147 cases have been 
treated under a much more extended diet with a mortality of 
8.1 per cent. I know well the liability to reach false conclu- 
sions in reasoning from too small figures in a disease like 
typhoid fever. And it is also true that water has been used 
more efficiently of late than in former years. But I can 
see nothing in my figures to contravene my observation that 
an enlarged diet has not been injurious. I would not be 
understood as advocating an indiscriminate diet. My plea 
is simply for treating the patient rather than the disease; 
for feeding him with reference to his digestive power rather 
than solely or mainly with reference to his fever; for the 
view that the danger of accidents from the local intestinal 
ulceration is not increased by allowing him to partake of 
articles which leave no irritating residue, and which cautious 
trial shows are digested without disturbance or discomfort. 
At one end of the scale are the cases with such irritability 
or weakness of the stomach as to lead to the unfortunate term 
gastric fever, or those with pronounced diarrhoea and un- 
digested food in the stools; at the other end are those more 
numerous cases with clean tongue and a desire for food. 
Between the two is every gradation. The life of the former 
may depend on the skill and ingenuity of the doctor, as- 
sisted by the intelligent devotion of the nurse. The com- 
fort and the duration of disability of all others may be 
materially modified for good by careful study and wise in- 



346 DIET IN DISEASE 

dividualization of our cases. A long list of permissible ar- 
ticles, from which selection can be made for different cases, 
and for the same case at different times under varying cir- 
cumstances, can be given. That which I append makes no 
claim to completeness, but is meant merely to be suggestive 
and illustrative: 

1. Milk, hot or cold, with or without salt, diluted with lime water, 
soda water, Apollinaris, Vichy; peptogenic and peptonised milk; 
cream and water (i. e., less albumin), milk with white of egg, slip 
buttermilk, kumyss, matzoon, milk whey, milk with tea, coffee, 
cocoa. 

2. Soups: beef, veal, chicken, tomato, potato, oyster, mutton, pea, 
bean, squash ; carefully strained and thickened with rice ( powdered ) , 
arrowroot, flour, milk or cream, egg, barley. 

3. Horlick's food, malted milk, carnipeptone, bovinine, somatoae. 

4. Beef juice. 

5. Gruels: strained cornmeal, crackers, flour, barley-water, toast- 
water, albumin, water with lemon-juice. 

6. Ice cream. Water ice. 

7. Eggs, soft boiled or raw, egg-nog. 

8. Finely minced lean meat, scraped beef. The soft part of raw 
oysters. Soft crackers with milk or broth. Soft puddings without 
raisins. Soft toast without crust. Blanc-mange, wine jelly, apple 
sauce and macaroni. 

TONSILITIS AND ariNSY 
Thompson i 

Dietetic Treatment. These diseases require no special care 
in the acute stage, beyond giving food in such fluid form as 
can be most easily swallowed. The pain caused by this act 
is often so extreme that it is advisable to concentrate all food, 
to lessen the number of necessary acts of deglutition. Meat 
juice, peptonoids, beaten eggs and brandy, may be added to 
good milk. Plain vanilla ice cream may be given. Its cold- 
ness is sometimes soothing to the pharynx. 

Holding cracked ice in the mouth before swallowing will 
sometimes ailnul the pain momentarily, or in extreme cases 
the pharynx and tonsils may be sprayed with cocaine, and the 

•W. Oilman Thompson, M.D, . "Practical Dietetics." New York. D. 
Appleton & Co. 



FEVERS AND INFECTIOUS DISEASES Mil 

period of temporary anaethesia may be utilized for swallowing 
considerable nourishment. This is rarely necessary, for un- 
less the patient is emaciated by previous serious illness, he is 
not apt to be in need of much food for a day or two. In bad 
cases of suppurative tonsilitis the strength suffers more, and 
stimulants may be given by the rectum if deglutition is inr- 
possible. 

After all forms of tonsilitis there is apt to be considerable 
anaemia, and the patient for a week or two should eat 
abundantly of animal food. Egg-nog and milk punches are 
often needed for the first few days of convalescence. 

DIPHTHERIA 
Thompson i 

Dietetic Treatment. " Alimentation occupies the first 
place in the general treatment" (Trousseau). Throughout 
the active stage of the disease, while the fever lasts, there is 
diflSculty in swallowing. All food must be given in fluid 
form, of whiclj milk is the best, or if, as sometimes happens, 
semi-solid material is more easily swallowed, the food must 
be thickened with cream, gelatin, eggs, or farinaceous articles ; 
or Dry Peptonoids Soluble, malted milk, etc., may be added 
for this purpose to other foods. The use of pineapple juice 
is recommended because it contains an enzyme which belongs 
to the proteolytic group. 

The diet should consist chiefly of nutritious beef or chicken 
broth and beef tea, egg albumin, egg-nog, milk, and milk 
punch. Plain vanilla ice cream is nutritious, and if not too 
sweet, it is well borne, and is frequently very grateful to the 
inflamed throat. Simple farinaceous foods, such as arrow- 
root, thoroughly cooked rice, soft cream toast, and gruels, 
may be taken. Continued disgust for food is a very bad 
prognostic sign, and every effort must be made to counteract 
it by offering variety. When the child is unable to swallow 
on account of pain in accumulation of membrane in the 

1 W. Oilman Thompson, M.D. : "Practical Dietetics." New York. D. 
Appleton & Co. 



348 DIET IN DISEASE 

throat, forced feeding with a nasal or stomach tube may be 
better than nutrient enemata. 

PNEUMONIA 
Thompson i 

Dietetic Treatment. The indications for treatment are to 
give a light diet, which will not excite the cough in swallow- 
ing, or increase dyspnoea by distention of the stomach, or 
augment the enfeeblement of the heart action by overtaxing 
the digestive powers. Vomiting should be especially guarded 
against, and if nausea exists, eflEorts should be made at once 
to control it. It is not necessary to keep the patient upon a 
rigid milk diet, but if milk is well borne, it is advisable to 
give nothing else while the acute symptoms last; otherwise, 
whey, meat juice, broths, and egg albumin may be allowed. 
Starchy and saccharine food must be withheld. Cold drinks 
are both acceptable and beneficial to the patient, and water 
plain or aerated, such as ApoUinaris or soda water, may be 
drunk in considerable quantity. It is believQd by some au- 
thorities that the activity of the kidneys may be thus pro- 
moted, and that the poison which occasions the constitutional 
symptoms of the disease may be better eliminated. There are 
cases, however, among persons with robust circulation, in 
which the onset is very sud'den and violent. The pulse is 
full and bounding, and the heart is greatly overworked by 
the effort to propel a large volume of imperfectly aerated 
blood. In such instances the addition of large quantities of 
fluid to the circulation, besides what is actually required for 
nutrition, may have the effect of still further straining the 
heart. 

It is stated that carbonated waters reduce the viscidity of 
the sputum, which is often very tenacious. 

The diet should be kept fluid until defervescence has oc- 
curred, with a normal temperature and commencing disap- 
pearance of the exudation — in fact, it is well to prolong 

>W. Gilman Thompson, M.D. : "Practical Dietetics." New York. D. 
Appleton & Co. 



FEVERS AND INFECTIOUS DISEASES 349 

the fluid diet for three or four days after the temperature 
has becouae normal, in order to make sure that a relapse of 
the fever is not likely to follow. In those cases in which 
resolution is postponed, and the patient becomes more and 
more feeble, although the temperature may be nearly or quite 
normal, it may be desirable to give a little properly prepared 
solid food somewhat earlier, and scraped beef, with toast, or 
a soft-cooked egg may be added to the milk diet. 

During the entire period of convalescence the diet must 
be very nourishing and of easy digestion; milk may still be 
given, and after slowly returning to the regulation three meals 
a day (see Diet in Convalescence from Typhoid Fever, p. 
339, patients do well to take milk punch, or egg-nog, or a 
glass of wine and a biscuit three or four times a day in the 
intervals. 

Alcohol is exceptionally well borne, and it undoubtedly 
serves both as a food and a support to the overworked heart. 
The fact that it is thoroughly oxidized in the circulation or 
tissues is demonstrated by the large quantities which patients 
can often digest and absorb without toxic symptoms. Doses 
may be thus tolerated which in health would ordinarily pro- 
duce drunkenness. In alcoholic subjects who have been drink- 
ing up to the time of the onset of the disease, it is indispen- 
sable to continue the use of alcohol, for the sudden withdrawal 
of its stimulating effect on the organism may give rise to 
rapid collapse. In aged and constitutionally weak persons it 
is also important that its use should be begun early in con- 
siderable quantities. 

In extreme cases as much as an ounce every two hours, or 
twelve ounces in the day, may be given with benefit, but 
ordinarily from six to eight ounces will suffice. There are 
other cases found among robust subjects who do not need 
such stimulating, and possibly may not require alcohol at 
all. The custom now in vogue of prescribing other forms of 
cardiac stimulants, such as strychnine and vasodilators, like 
nitroglycerin, makes the employment of excessive doses of 
alcohol less imperative. It should always be remembered 



350 DIET IN DISEASE 

that it is undesirable to produce toxic symptoms of alcoholism 
in pneumonia, as well as in any other disease. So long as 
the pulse is slowed and its force strengthened, the use of 
alcohol may be regarded as beneficial; but if delirium is in- 
creased, and the odor of whiskey or brandy is strong in the 
breath an hour or two after it has been given, it is an indi- 
cation that the patient is receiving more than is desirable, 
and the dosage should be reduced. Prom its serving as a 
fuel, and thereby saving tissue waste in the muscles, the free 
use of alcohol in pneumonia undoubtedly saves many lives. 

BKONCHO-PNETTMONIA 
Thompson i 

Dietetic Treatment. Broncho-pneumonia is always a very 
critical disease, and the utmost care is required in nursing 
and feeding. The diet should consist of such articles as 
meat juice, predigested milk, and egg albumin. Stimulation 
is early required, and in considerable quantity. Brandy or 
whiskey, sweetened with a little sugar, and cold water, should 
be systematically given, especially to young children, who 
are unable to make their want of drink known. Hot milk and 
Vichy, in the proportion of one part of Vichy to two of 
milk for older children, or half-and-half for young infants, 
may have the effect of loosening the tenacious mucous and 
easing the cough. If there is any tendency to flatulency, 
aerated vaters had better be avoided. When the disease oc- 
curs in children the diet should be adapted to foster the 
strength and tax the digestive organs as little as possible. 
At first food should be given every two hours, and milk is 
usually all that is required. Later it may be alternated with 
or supplemented by egg albumin, expressed meat juice, plain 
beef or mutton broths, arrowroot, or other gruels. 

MTJMPS 
Thompson i 

For mumps no special diet is required, beyond the neces- 
sity of giving fiuids or soft food while the swelling of the 

^ W. Gilman Thompson, M.D. : "Practical Dietetics.'* New York. D. 
Appleton & Oo. 



FEVERS AND INFECTIOUS DISEASES 351 

parotid glands and fever last. The suggestions for the die- 
tetic treatment of tonsilitis apply to this disease. Anaemia 
is apt to be extreme during convalescence, and meat should 
therefore be plentifully supplied. Cod-liver oil is very ap 
propriate in protracted convalescence. 

WHOOPING COTJGH 

Thompson i 
In whooping cough the paroxysms of coughing are so 
severe as to give rise to vomiting, and in bad cases they are 
excited by taking food which does not have an opportunity 
to become assimilated, and nutrition may suffer very seriously 
in consequence, adding to the general exhaustion which 
accompanies the disease. All food must be made easily as- 
similable. It is best to give food regularly in moderate quan- 
tity at each time, and it should be predigested if neces- 
sary. Pancreatinised milk, kumyss, the prepared amylaceous 
foods, cream toast, eggs, junket, chicken broth, malted farina- 
ceous foods, custard, milk puddings, gruels thickened with 
meat extracts, and stimulants in the form of egg albumin in 
sherry, egg-nog or milk punch, are recommended for patients 
who vomit solid food. The worst cases require nutrient 
enemata, as exhaustion becomes critical. 

DIET IN TTTBEKCTILOSIS, ESPECIALLY PULMONARY CONSTTMP- 

TION 

Before we learned of the contagious character of this affec- 
tion, and its dependence on the tubercle bacillus, it was the 
custom to regard tuberculosis as a disease of nutrition, curable 
only by abundant feeding — all that a patient could tolerate 
— and especially feeding with fats and mineral matter. Even 
in modern times the custom of overfeeding is largely re- 
sorted to, and when the patient has but little appetite, the 
stomach sound is often used to give large quantities of con- 
centrated liquid food, perhaps predigested. Many physicians 
strongly disapprove of this practice, claiming that it is utterly 

* W. Gilman Thompson, M.D. ; "Practical Dietetics." New York. D. 
Appleton & Co. 



363 DIET IN DISEASE 

irrational and throws an enormous amount of extra work on 
the organs of digestion, assimilation and elimination. 

It is as true, as ever, tliat a full diet antag-onizes the dis- 
ease. A tuberculous subject or one likely to become so, is not 
capable of much physical exertion, and save in the hectic 
fever stage, has not much temperature. The poison of the 
disease deprives him of a natural appetite, and unless he is 
able to assimilate a normal amount of food, he loses flesh 
progressively, as in any other affection with loss of appetite 
or indigestion. Hence his diet does not differ much from 
that of the convalescent in the composition of food; but 
on account of the enfeebled appetite and digestion the in- 
dividual articles best borne are those used in severe indiges- 
tion from any cause. That is, they are to be concentrated, 
bland, and as varied as possible. As in dyspepsia, the pa- 
tient does best on small and frequent meals. 

Considerable use can be made of milk, cream, buttermilk, 
kumyss, etc. The remarkable and inexplicable curative effects 
of a certain amount of fat in the diet should never be for- 
gotten. The frequent repugnance to fat has in fact been 
connected with the development of disease. This distaste 
does not usually extend to cream, butter and salad oil, and 
many forms of emulsions of fat with or without hypophos- 
phites have a deserved reputation. So important is a cer- 
tain amount of fat that many physicians have it rubbed into 
the skin and even injected subcutaneously. The patient is 
not limited to a fixed daily quantity, but is given as much as 
he can tolerate. A certain amount of alcohol in some form 
is so well borne in tuberculosis as to make it a dietetic article 
of value. It is probable that both fat and alcohol act by 
protecting the protein. Both have a high caloric value, so 
that the amount of other nutriment can be restricted, and 
should consist largely of eggs, milk and an occasional piece 
of tender meat. 

Tor an average consumptive, without fever, but with no 
desire for food, six small meals may be given daily. 



FEVERS AND INFECTIOUS DISEASES 353 

1. 8 A. M. Milk, taken slowly, two glasses, with a roll or 
toast and butter and a little marmalade. 

2. 10 A. M. Milk punch, taken slowly. 

3. 1 p. M. A course dinner may be given for the sake of 
variety: cup of broth, a few bites each of fish, beef, potato 
and anything else craved as an entree (as a bit of smoked 
tongue). Also a mouthful or two of some kind of dessert. 
The patient may aid the appetite by taking wine, or some 
form of malt liquor. 

4. 4 p. M. Two glasses milk slowly sipped. 

5. 7 p. M. Like dinner, but much smaller. A plate of 
soup, a chop and a little preserve with a glass of wine. 

6. Bed time. Two glasses of milk slowly sipped. 

In this way up to 2500 calories may be taken without over- 
feeding. If a patient technically tuberculous, but with good 
appetite and digestion can take 3000 to 3500 calories daily 
without discomfort, he may do so, even though his quiet life 
would not otherwise make such a quantity desirable. The 
fat and alcohol which help so materially to swell the number 
of calories tend to fortify the body against the progress of 
the disease. 

On the other hand, patients in advanced or confirmed 
phthisis can hardly be saved by any plan of feeding. They 
often suffer from severe complications like incessant diarrhoea 
or laryngeal phthisis which make any plan of feeding difficult. 
Each case, therefore, must be a law to itself. The modem 
custom is to feed them all they can tolerate, especially of 
solid food, to supply energy, for the paroxysms of coughing 
and the exertion necessary to dress and get about in the out- 
door air. 

DIET: Soups. — Turtle or oyster soup, mutton, clam or chicken 
broth, purge of barley, rice, peas, beans, cream of celery or tomatoes, 
whole beef tea, peptonised milk gruel. 

Fish. — All kinds of fresh fish, boiled or broiled, oysters or clams, 
raw, roasted or broiled. 

Meats. — ■ Rare roast beef or mutton, lamb chops, ham, fat bacon, 
sweetbreads, poultry, game, tender steaks, hamburger steak rare. 



354 DIET IN DISEASE 

Eggs. — Every way except fried. 

Farinaceous. — Oatmeal, wheaten grits, mush, hominy, rice, whole 
wheat bread, corn bread, milk toast, biscuits, muflSns, gems. 

Fats. — Cream, butter, olive oil, 

Vegetables. — Potatoes, baked, boiled or creamed, string beans, 
spinach, onions, asparagus, tomatoes, green peas, all well cooked, 
cresses, lettuce (alone or with oil dressing), celery. 

Desserts. — Farina, sago, tapioca, apple or milk pudding, floating 
island, custards, baked or stewed apples with fresh cream, cooked 
fruits, rice with fresh cream. 

Liquids. — Fresh milk, cool, warm, or peptonised, cocoa, chocolate, 
buttermilk, pure water, tea, coffee. Liquid Peptonoids. 

AVOID. — • Fried foods, salt fish, hashes, gravies, veal, pork, carrots, 
parsnips, cabbage, beets, turnips, cucumbers, macaroni, spaghetti, 
sweets, pies, pastry, sweet wines. 



CHAPTER XV 

DIET IN DISORDERS OF NUTRITION 

DIET IN DIABETES 

It is commonly believed that diabetes should be managed 
dietetically by a sugar-and-starch-free regimen, carried to 
such a degree that excess of sugar no longer appears in the 
urine. As a matter of fact, such teaching may be very mis- 
leading. A diabetic, in the early stages at least, must lead 
a fairly active life, and requires the usual number of calories 
for such living. If sugars and starches are removed wholly 
from the diet, the requisite calories must be derived from 
protein and fat, and this may prove a strain both on the 
desire for food and its digestion and utilization. It is there- 
fore rational to allow a certain percentage of carbohydrates,, 
as they occur in such common articles of food as bread, 
cereals, potatoes, etc., even if they favor the appearance of 
sugar in the urine. We know that in this disease, the starch 
and sugar in the diet becomes a poison if carried beyond a 
certain stage. The tissues then become saturated with 
saccharine products, and readily succumb to chance infec- 
tions, the microbes of which behave as they do in sweetened 
culture media. But in a vigorous subject leading an active 
life, there is always a point within which the bodily activities 
are sufficient to oxidize most of the carbohydrate intake; and 
a certain amount of escape of excess products in the urine is 
then relatively insignificant. 

A characteristic diet is as follows : 

(a) First Breakfast. This should consist of lean and fat 
meat, such as occurs naturally in ham or bacon. Por a bev- 
erage we may give coflfee sweetened with saccharine. If there 
is a craving for bread, starch-free gluten bread should be 
added. 

355 



356 DIET IN DISEASE 

(b) Second Breakfast. Cream, eggs, beef juice, kumyss, 
or other liquid or semi-liquid food. 

(c) Noon Meal. A course dinner, beginning with broth 
enriched with an egg, meat, or bits of green vegetable. To 
this should be added small portions of fish, roast, entree, game, 
etc. As extras, salad, cheese, etc. Wine, etc. A small 
amount of bread and butter and potatoes if craved. 

First Evening Meal. Coffee and cream, sweetened with 
saccharine. An egg added if craved. 

Second Evening Meal. This, usually served at bed time, 
is meant to give the patient a chance to make up for de- 
ficiencies. He may indulge especially in sapid food, as fish, 
oysters, clams, caviare, sardines, etc., with plenty of salad 
vegetables. Bread and butter, cheese, nuts, etc., if craved 
during the meals of abstention may be given if allowed. 

The foregoing menu is intended for those stages of the 
disease in which the patient profits by some use of carbohy- 
drates. With the advance of the affection, a point is reached 
at which such foods are actually pernicious. It then becomes 
a problem to nourish these individuals with a diet practically 
free from sugars and starches. It is only necessary for the 
nurse to have at hand tables of food containing the exact 
percentage of carbohydrates ; for in this way she may protect 
the sufferer. 

A point is reached at last in which a certain excess of carbo- 
hydrates may precipitate a fatal termination. 

DIABETIC DIET OF BELLEVUE HOSPITAI i 

Meat. — Fat beef, mutton, ham and bacon. 

Fish. — Fresh fish, salted codfish, canned salmon, sardines, oysters 
and clams. 

Farinaceous. — Gluten bread and biscuits. 

Vegetables. — String beans, spinach, lettuce with olive oil and 
vinegar, cabbage, cucumbers, onions, tomatoes, cauliflower, asparagus, 
celery, watercress, radishco, pickles and olives. Cream cheese. 

Dessert. — Custards, jellies and creams (without sugar), walnuts, 
Brazil nuts and pecans. 

Drinks. — Tea or coffee without sugar, water and buttermilk. 

'Diet used at BeUevue Hospital, New York. 



DISORDERS OF NUTRITION 357 

DIABETIC DIET OF PRESBYTERIAN HOSPITAL i 
Buttermilk, kumyss, beef tea, coffee, cocoa, tea, saccharine 
in lieu of sugar, clams (thin soup), fish, poultry, beef, mutton, 
bacon, eggs, string beans, cabbage, tomatoes, lettuce, spinach 
greens, lemons, apples, oranges, strawberries. 
No milk or sugar. 

DIABETIC DIET OF THE MASSACHT7SETTS GENERAL HOSPITAL 2 

DIET. — Meats of all kinds (except liver), fish except lobsters or 
oysters, poultry, game, eggs, cheese, butter, lettuce, celery, cucum- 
bers, watercress, dandelions, young onions, cabbage, cauliflower,, 
spinach, beet-tops, string beans, artichokes, filberts, mushrooms, 
almonds, butternuts, walnuts, eocoanut, sour oranges, grape fruits, 
currants, alkaline waters. 

AVOID. — Sugar, syrup of all kinds, potatoes, beets, peas, parsnips, 
carrots, beans, arrowroot, sago, tapioca, oatmeal, barley, sweet fruits, 
chocolate, cider, malt liquors, champagne, sparkling or sweet wines 
and milk. 

STRICT SrGAR-FREE DIET 2 
(Diabetic Diet) 
Diabetic Diet (Strict — Sugar-free). Contains about 20 gms. of 
carbohydrates, calories 2800, proteid 110 gms. 

Breakfast. — ■ Bacon, 100 gms. ; eggs, 2 ; orange, 1 ; coffee with saccha- 
rine and cream. 11 A. M., Cheese: cream or Swiss, 50 gms. 
Noon. — Beef, veal, lamb or chicken, 100 gms. ; lettuce or tomato salad 
with oil; spinach, onions, cabbage or cauliflower, olives; cus- 
tard made of eggs and cream with saccharine or ice cream, 
made the same way. 4 P. M., Soft cooked egg with butter. 
Supper. — -Fish, 100 gms.; cucumber salad with oil; asparagus or beet 
tops; mushrooms, nuts; give all cream and butter possible. 
Vary diet within above limits. 60 per cent, centrifugal cream 
is used, diluted with water. 

At start give above diet with addition of 200 gms. bread. 
After two to four days, decrease bread gradually 100 gms. — 
50 gms. to strict diet. 

If acidosis increases with strict diet, give large doses of 
soda. Control in this way, and by changing diet. 

If patient has increasing acidosis on strict diet add soda 8 

^ Diet used at the Presbyterian Hospital, New York. 

'Diet used at the Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, Mass. 



358 DIET IN DISEASE 

oz. a day^ try method of starvation one day, vegetable diet 
(no carbohydrate) one day, oatmeal, 350 grammes one day, 
alternating. The same plan may be tried if there is failure 
to get sugar-free urine on strict diet; but first try plan of 
cutting down protein on strict diet, replacing protein with 
more cream and butter, as sugar is made from protein. Keep 
on strict diet one month after using sugar-free; then add 
bread 25 gms., etc. 

CHEONIC DIABETES DIET 

DIET. — Soups: Soups or broth of beef, chicken, mutton, veal, 
oysters, clams, terrapin or turtle (not thickened with any farinaceous 
substances ) , beef tea. 

Fish. — Shell fish and all kinds of fish, fresh, salted, dried, pickled 
or otherwise preserved (no dressing containing flour). 

Eggs. — ■ In any way most acceptable. 

Meats. — Fat beef, mutton, ham or bacon, poultry, sweetbreads, 
calf's head, sausage, kidneys, pig's feet, tongue, tripe, game (all 
cooked free of flour, potatoes, bread or crackers ) . 

Farinaceous. — Gluten porridge, gluten bread, gluten gems, gluten 
biscuits, gluten wafers, gluten griddle cakes, almond bread or cakes, 
bran bread or cakes. 

Vegetables. — String beans, spinach, beet-tops, chicory, kale, let- 
tuce, plain or dressed with oil and vinegar, cucumbers, onions, toma- 
toes, mushrooms, asparagus, oyster plant, celery, dandelions, cresses, 
radishes, pickles, olives. 

Desserts. — Custards, jellies, creams (without any sugar), walnuts, 
almonds, filberts, Brazil nuts, cocoanuts, pecans. 

Drinks. — Tea or coffee ( without any sugar ) , pure water, pepto- 
nised milk, buttermilk. 

AVOID. — Liver, sugars, sweets or starches of any kind, wheaten 
bread or biscuits, corn bread, oatmeal, barley, rice, rye bread, arrow- 
root, sago, macaroni, tapioca, vermicelli, potatoes, parsnips, beets, 
turnips, peas, carrots, melons, fruits, puddings, pastry, pies, ices, 
honey, jams, sweet or sparkling wines, cordials, cider, porter, lager, 
■chestnuts, peanuts. 

STTBSTITTTTES FOE STAECH AND SiraAE 

Gum Gluten Flour can be made into bread and a great variety of 
dishes, and is the most satisfactory substitute for the wheat flour 
bread or bread in common use, and the effects are particularly no- 
ticeable in the reduction of sugar in the daily tests. 

Sweetina is in the pure crystal form, and is made into a syrup by 



DISORDERS OF NUTRITION 359 

adding cold water. Distilled water is preferable. It is sold in small 
bottles at 25 cents each, the contents of which is equal to eight pounds 
of sugar in sweetening power. 

One bottle of crystals makes one pint of syrup, of which a, tea- 
spoonful is equal to a cupful of sugar. 

Sweetina is an improved product from coal tar. 

A DIABETIC CHART 
Joslin and Groodall i 

The intelligent management of a case of diabetes mellitus 
requires frequent comparisons between the diet, the urinary- 
analyses and the weight of the patient. These data are often 
printed or written down in four or five different places, and 
the labor of uniting them is so great that it is seldom at- 
tempted. Any accurate study of a case is thus extremely 
difficult, and in hospitals past records are almost useless. To 
facilitate the treatment of diabetic patients and to eliminate 
some of the annoying sources of error, we have used a chart 
for some years upon which some of these facts were recorded. 
Our chart was designed chiefly for the benefit of the physician,, 
in contrast to the charts in use in various German clinics, 
which have a broader application and are of direct help not 
only to the physician, but also to the nurse and the patient 
as well. By this latter arrangement the chart becomes the 
nurse's record, and upon it the nurse writes what the patient 
actually eats. We have attempted to combine the two meth- 
ods on the following chart, and hope that it will be found 
helpful and suggestive in the treatment of diabetic patients. 

Space is reserved upon the chart for the Doctor's orders, 
and the nurse's record, as well as the urinary analyses. 
There is given, in addition, a statement of the foods com- 
monly allowed in a strict diabetic diet, with the percent of 
carbohydrates in other foods which are occasionally em- 
ployed. 

lA Diabetic Chart by Elliott P. Joslin, M.D., and Harry W. Goodall, 
M.B., Boston, Mass. (Reprinted from the Boston Medical and Surgical 
Journal, Vol. clviii, No. 8, pp. 248-251, Feb. 20, 1908.) D. C. Heath & 
Co., 120 Boylston St., Boston, Mass. 



^60 



DIET IN DISEASE 



< 

o 

iZi 
H 

fr* 

P 
O 









fi c 
















o 


<3tS 




■^ 


+J 




ca 












o 


SB 


in 




I 


Pi 


Ki 


IH-S 


^ 


<u +^ 


<i 


(i, 


5i 


.-H W 






g 














pi; 


■a 


% 

Nitro 
gen 








^ 


"3 



H 



^ « 



< 



Ph 



o 



r^.H. 









*w (-1 



^ 

^ 



|l< 






o 

> 



ca 
P 






CO 

M 
Pi 
< 

W 
PJ 









SQOH^N 



ta 



fln-S 



o ca 
HO 






ft- 



cS^ 



DISORDERS OF NUTRITION 



361 



i 

s 




p. 

02 




g 
< 




u 

5 




a 

§ 

a 




C3 

03 




V 




s 

P 





« bo DO 

to ^ ro 

ho S S* 

w,s a 

.2 ■" 

TO p, m 



Qj CD ra 

g S " 



to 0) ^ 

tC 3 o 



^?;1;s 



55 'd cS 13 



s 



0.2 



M _" CO 60 

O 1^ CQ 



+ 

o o 



to a 

ctJ <u 

Q>CQ 

m 



62^ 

rt'S'g 



h O o 

own 



Is 



3 
^ 



+ 



3 .2 'i 

», 03 IS ft 4) ftjzj S ta £ 






PM« 



a 



«^-a 



<oj3 a5 

fl to-" O 

.2 S £ a E o s 
&3 bS «;5 



10_2 (U QJ g 

-,tOtHWg)Q>OOOjOy 

a S 3 « " o S "-Sis 

i2 2i3«gg.S^3 



9 



fc. M _ C- 0) flj 



e ^ 



P-M 
O ttJ raw 

■ft StaS 



^ 



-idtuctjeaaior— 'P oft 

lUfttei3(DtO-3JHoC^ — tH 

ijajai!aO<!oMajHt) KO 






S-o a.a 

C9 rt S O' 



363 BIET IN DISEASE 

MENTIS FOR THE DIABETIC 

STJUMER 

SUNDAY 

Beeakpast 

•Gluten Breakfast Food, Scalloped Eggs, 

Gluten Muffinsj- Coffee. 

Dinner 

Asparagus Soup, 

Fricassee Chicken and Dumpling, 

Creamed Green Onions^ Sliced Tomatoes, 

Beet GreenSy Cucumber Salad, 

Baked Custari, Gum Gluten Bread Bolls. 

Supper 

Chicken Salad, 

Pimento Cheese Gluten Sandwiches^ 

Gluten Nut Cake, Tea. 

MONDAY 

Breakfast 
Asparagus Tip Omelet, Gum Gluten Bread Rolls, 

Coffee. 

LUNCUEON 

Baked Gluten Noodles, Ripe Olives and Radishes, 

Gluten Bread, Tea. 

Dinner 

Jellied Chicken Consomme, 

Gum Gluten Bread Sticks, 

String Beans, Scalloped Tomatoes, 

Egg Salad with Cress, Mayonnaise Dressing, 

Coffee Jelly, Whipped Cream, 

Demi Tasse, Gum Gluten Dainty Fluffs. 

TUESDAY 

Breakfast 

Gum Gluten Dainty Fluffs and Cream, 

Fried Perch and Cresses, 

Gum Gluten Bread Rolls, Coffee. 

Luncheon 

Codfish Croquettes, Gluten Drop Biscuits, 

Sliced Tomatoes, Tea. 



DISORDERS OF NUTRITION 363 

Dinner 

Jellied Consomme, 

Gum Gluten Bread Sticks, 

Scalloped Tomatoes, Spinach, 

Asparagus Salad, French Dressing, 
Cheese Souffle, Boiled Almond Custard, 

Iced Coffee Gum Gluten Dainty Fluffs. 

WEDNESDAY 

Breakfast 

Tomato Omelet, 

Gluten Muffins, Coffee. 

Luncheon 

French Gluten Toast, 

String Beam, Salad, French Dressing, 

Gum Gluten Bread Sticks, Iced Tea. 

Dinner 

Jellied Tomato Consomme, 

Baked Pish, Gum Gluten Bread Sticks, 

Creamed Asparagus, Fried Noodles, 

String Beans, 

Pineapple Ice, Demi Tasse. 

THURSDAY 

Breakfast 

Fried Mackerel, Cresses, 

Gluten Bread, Coffee. 

Luncheon 
Scalloped Eggs, Gum Gluten Bread Rolls, 

Olives, Radishes, 

Gluten Cheese Sandwiches, Tea. 

Dinner 

Cream Tomato Soup, 

Broiled Squai on Toast, Gum Gluten Bread Sticks, 

Sliced Tomatoes, Spinach, Lettuce Salad, 

Baked Nut Custard, Coffee. 

FKIDAY 

Breakfast 

Gluten Granules, Spanish Omelet, 

Gluten Drop Biscuits, Coffee. 



364 



DIET IN DISEASE 
Luncheon 



Cheese Pudding, 
Gluten Lettuce Sandwiches, 



Olives, 



Tea. 



Dinner 

Cream of Hpinach Soup, 

Broiled Shad, 

String Beans, . Cucumbers, 

Vegetable Salad with Mayonnaise Dressing, 

Gluten Bread, 

Gluten Fruit Pudding, Coffee. 

SATURDAY 
Breakfast 
Gluten Breakfast Food, 

Gum Gluten Bread Sticks, 

Luncheon 

Aspic Jelly with Tongue, 

Gluten Lettuce Sandwiches 

Whipped Cream with Nuts on Dainty Fluffs. 

Tea. 

Dinner 
Clam Broth, 
Gum Gluten Bread Sticks, 
Asparagus on Gluten Toast, 
Spinach, 



Fish Croquettes, 
Coffee. 



Lemon Jelly, 



Coffee. 



String Beans, 
Baked Onions, 
Gluten Biscuit Crisps, 



Gluten Breakfast Food, 
Gluten Toast, 



Oysters, 

Roast Beef, 

Celery, 



WINTER 

SUNDAY 

Breakfast 

Dinner 



Salted Almonds, 
Gum Gluten Dainty Fluffs, 



Gum Gluten Bread Sticks, 
Spinach, 
Shrimp Salad, 



Scrambled Eggs, 
Coffee. 

Cream Celery Soup, 

Brussels Sprouts, 
Olives, 



Baked Custard, 



Coffee. 



DISORDERS OF NUTRITION 365 

Supper 

Cream Cheese Dainty Fluff Sandmches, 

Salmon Pudding, 

Gluten 'Nut Cake, Tea. 

MONDAY 

Breakfast 

Gluten Granules, Parsley Omelet, 

Gluten Muffitis, Coffee. 

Luncheon 

Broiled Lohster, Mayonnaise Dressing, 
Gum Gluten Bread Sticks, Tea. 

Dinner 
Consomme, Qum Gluten Bread Rolls, 

Scalloped Gluten Noodles and Celery, 

Creamed Cabiage, String Beans, 

Salmon Salad vAth Mayonnaise, 

Pignolia Nuts, Olives, 

Coffee Jelly with Whipped Cream, 

Demi Tasse. 

TUESDAY 

Breakfast 

Gluten Griddle Calces, Bacon and Eggs, 

Gum Gluten Bread Rolls, Coffee. 

Luncheon 

Gluten Noodles au Gratin, 

Cream Cheese and Lettuce Salad, 

Gluten Biscuit Crisps, Tea. 

Dinner 

Cream of Onion Soup, 

Roast Mutton, Gum Gluten Bread Sticks, 



Creamed Cauliflower, 
Fried Sour Apples, 

Gluten Brown Betty, 


Spinach, 
Gluten Cheese Wafers, 
Coffee. 


WEDNESDAY 




Breakfast 
Ham and Eggs, 

Coffee. 


Gluten Muffins, 


Luncheon 





Clam Broth, Gum Gluten Bread Sticks, 

Scalloped Tomatoes, 
Gluten Tea Biscuits, Tea. 



366 DIET IN DISEASE 

Dinner 

Cream of Tomato Soup, 

Roast Chicken, Gum Gluten Bread Stichs, 

Brussels Sprouts, Celery, String Beans, 

Gluten Pudding, Coffee. 

THURSDAY 

Breakfast 

Fried Gluten Breakfast Food, 

Gluten Pop-Overs, Coffee. 

Luncheon 

Chicken Salad, Sour Pickles, 

Gluten Bread, Tea. 

Dinner 

Little Neck Clams, Mutton Chops, 

Oyster Plant, Baked Noodles, 

Sardine Salad with French Dressing, 

Fruit Pudding, Whipped Cream, 

Gum Gluten Bread Rolls, Demi Tasse. 

FRIDAY 

Breakfast 

Gluten Porridge, Mackerel with Egg Sauce, 

Gluten Drop Biscuits, Coffee. 

Luncheon 

Scalloped Oysters, Gluten Nut Sandwiches, 

Cold Slaw, Tea. 

Dinner 

Baked Fish, Celery, 

Creamed Cabbage, Asparagus on Toast, 

Tom,ato Jelly Salad with Mayonnaise, 

Baked Custard, 

Gluten Bread Rolls, Coffee. 

SATURDAY 

Breakfast 

Gluten Breakfast Food, Bacon and Eggs, 

Gum Giuten Bread Rolls, Coffee. 

LUNCnEON 

Fish Croquettes, 
Grape Fruit, Gluten Lettuce Sandwiches, 

Tea. 



DISORDERS OF NUTRITION 367 

DiNNEB 

Oyster Stew, Gum Gluten Bread Sticks, 

Spinach, Cheese Souffle, 

Ripe Olives, Celery, 

Coffee Junket mth Whipped Cream, Coffee. 

LITHEKIA OR EXCESS OF TTRIC ACID 

Treatment for Uric Acid. Exercise in the open air — 
walk — plenty of fresh air by night as well as by day. 
Breathe deeply. Bathe often ; rub the body thoroughly after- 
ward; the skin should play an important part in elimination 
of uric acid. 

To prevent the formation of an over supply of uric acid, 
be careful of diet. The first thing, do not eat meat. You 
may eat nuts with salt, fresh ripe fruit; best of all, apples 
unpeeled; all cooked fruits, but very little sugar in them; 
all vegetables that grow above ground (not those that grow 
below ground) ; greens are especially good, with good cider 
vinegar. Bread may be eaten in moderation, graham and 
entire wheat best, good water crackers, cereals of all kinds; 
eggs should be used sparingly, and in severe eases not at all. 
Pish is good, also shellfish. No pastry or sweet cakes; milk 
and cheese may be used freely, also buttermilk. Drink no 
coffee, tea, malt or alcoholic liquors. Drink pure water and 
a great deal of it ; sometimes it is well to use lithia tablets. 

ACUTE GOtJT 

Dietetic Treatment. During acute attacks the diet must 
be restricted, but the extent of restriction will depend upon 
age, habits and conditions of the patient. 

Meat and alcohol as a rule are excluded. As a rule it is 
best to exclude meat, more especially red meat, and, unless 
especially necessary, forbid alcohol. In old people, with 
feeble circulation, accustomed to the regular and free use of 
alcohol, it may be necessary to allow a small amount. If the 
kidneys be seriously at fault it may be best not even to give 
small amount of alcohol. 

For the young and strong the diet should consist mainly 



368 DIET IN DISEASE 

of farinaceous substances and broths, made not too strong, 
such as bread and milk, a cup of weak tea with milk, dry- 
toast with a little butter, vegetable broths, two ounces of milk 
with Vichy water ; rice, sago, semolina or an farinaceous pud- 
ding made without eggs. 

He should sip half a pint ol hot water twice or thrice 
daily between meals, and barley water and toast water may 
be allowed. After acute symptoms have subsided, boiled fish 
and a little chicken may be given once a day, and nourish- 
ment carefully and gradually increased. 

For old or feeble persons the diet, although kept in same 
lines, must be more supporting; have broths, etc., stronger, 
and beef juice, chicken broth and an egg beaten up in a 
glass of milk once a day. Alcohol may also be necessary. 

In protracted cases it may be necessary to allow more 
nutritious diet, including fish, soup and white meats, as well 
as an allowance of brandy or whiskey. 

CHRONIC GOUT 

DIET : Soups. — Clear vegetable broths, fresh fish soup. 

Fish. — Fresh fish broiled or boiled, raw oysters. 

Meats. — Eat of all kinds sparingly, game, chicken, fat bacon. 

Farinaceous. — Crackers, dry toast, milk toast, macaroni, graham 
bread or rolls, rye bread, whole wheat bread, or biscuit, cereals. 

Vegetables. — Celery, lettuce, cresses, cucumbers, cabbage, spinach, 
string beans, green peas, mashed potatoes. 

Desserts. — (AH without sugar). Plain milk puddings, junket, rice 
and milk. Stewed fruits. 

Liquids. — Pure water, hot or cold ; toast water, buttermilk, milk, 
malted milk, weak tea (no sugar). 

AVOID. — Champagne, sweet wines, malt liquors, cider, coffee, 
tobacco, dried fruits, nuts, cheese, sweets, pastry, pies, spices, rich 
puddings, fried dishes, vinegar, pickles, lemons, rhubarb, mush- 
rooms, asparagus, sweet potatoes, tomatoes, gravies, patties, rich 
soup, eggs, lobster, salmon, crabs, mackerel, eel, veal, pork, goose, 
duck, turkey; salted, dried, potted or preserved fish or meat (except 
fat bacon ) . 

ACTITE RHEUMATISM 
Thompson i 

Dietetic Treatment. While the fever lasts and other symp- 

iW. Gilman Thompson, M.D. : "Practical Dietetics." New York. D. 
Appleton & Co. 



DISORDERS OF NUTRITION 369 

toms are acute, such as pain and swelling of the Joints, the 
patient should be put upon a fluid diet. The majority of 
cases do best at this time with an exclusive milk or bread- 
and-milk diet. Those patients who cannot take milk, how- 
ever, may be allowed soups and broths flavored with vegetable 
extracts, chicken tea, milk toast, barley or oatmeal gruel, 
clam broth. 

Thirst is often a prominent symptom, especially if there 
be much fever, and it is advisable for the patient to drink 
fluid freely to assist in washing out the waste products from 
the body. Lemonade and slightly acid drinks of various 
kinds, such as dilute phosphoric acid or the effervescent min- 
eral waters, are recommended. Boiled milk and Seltzer or 
Vichy may be drunk, or oatmeal or barley water flavored 
with lemon. Alcohol should be avoided while the acute symp- 
toms last, unless the complication of inflammation of the 
endocardium or pericardium enfeeble the heart action, if pro- 
longed and anaemia is considerable, alcohol may be given as 
a tonic two or three times a day in the form of a glass of 
claret or Burgundy (one to two ounces), or diluted whiskey. 

During convalescence the appetite is not usually vigorous, 
and it is not necessary to urge the taking of much food at 
first. The diet should be principally farinaceous, but not 
saccharine. 

Such articles may be given as rice (plain or spiced), arrow- 
root, oatmeal, eornmeal, semolina, wheaten grits, panada, milk 
toast, simple unsweetened puddings, wine jelly, blanc-mange 
and malted foods. 

The return to solid diet should be gradual, and for a long 
time the patient should abstain from eating meats as well as 
from pastry and sweets. Fagge states that no meat or fish 
should be allowed for at- least a week after subsidence of the 
fever and acute symptoms, or, better, for a fortnight, and 
many believe that beef tea is harmful. Meat can undoubtedly 
induce a relapse. 

When convalescence becomes established, eggs, fish, oysters, 
and white meat of broiled or roasted chickens may be given. 



370 DIET IN DISEASE 

and one or two such vegetables as asparagus, spinach, or 
stewed celery, with a baked apple or fresh fruit, but sweets 
and alcohol should long be withheld. 

The patient should be fed often, having one or two extra 
lunches during the day, for anaemia is apt to prevail for some 
time, and abundant nutriment is required. 

RHETTMATISU: 
Massachusetts General Hospital 

DIET. — Graham or brown bread, white bread limited ( % slice 
daily), corn, granum, rice, milk, eggs, ilour, puddings, crackers, 
beans, peas, all kinds of vegetables (except potatoes and cooked 
tomatoes ) , rhubarb, fresh fish ; butter, cheese, buttermilk, cream, 
alkaline waters, toast. 

AVOID. — Red meats, starch or potatoes, white bread, sugars. 

CHRONIC RHEUMATISM 

DIET : Soup.- — Beef tea, chicken and mutton broth in small 
quantities. 

Fish. — Raw oysters or clams, white fleshed fresh fish — broiled or 
boiled. 

Meat. — Sweetbreads, chicken, tripe, broiled fat bacon or boiled 
ham ( all sparingly ) . 

Farinaceous. — Boston brown bread, corn, whole wheat bread, 
cornstarch, rice, milk toast, dry toast, graham bread, granum, butter, 
crackers. 

Vegetables. — All except potatoes and cooked tomatoes. 

Desserts. — Plain puddings, rhubarb; junket (all without sugar). 

Liquids. — ^Milk, cream, buttermilk, malted milk, alkaline waters, 
tea, cocoa (no sugar), pure water, plain or with lemon or lime (no 
sugar ) . 

AVOID. — Red meats, pork, turkey, goose, duck, veal, fried fish, 
cooked oysters or clams, salted, dried, potted or preserved fish or 
meats ( except ham and bacon ) . Lobsters, crabs, salmon, eggs, rich 
pies, made dishes, gravies, potatoes, tomatoes, asparagus, mushrooms, 
rich puddings, candies, nuts, cheese, coffee, cider, malt liquors, wines. 

DIET IN OBESITY 

This is one of the most important features of dietetic 
therapy, and is older and better known than any other, prob- 
ably because of its connection with conditioning athletes for 

> Diet used at the Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston. 



DISORDERS OF NUTRITION 371 

all kinds of contests and also from the cosmetic point of 
view, as superfluous flesh generally implies advanced years. 
Unlike many other plans of diet it concerns the nominally 
healthy rather than the sick and invalid. 

The old trainer of athletes knew little or nothing of any 
scientific regimen for reducing adipose tissue. For him re- 
duction of weight was merely a matter of getting rid of 
superfluous water, to be accomplished by sweating, purgation 
and abstinence from fluids. He rejected certain articles of 
diet as " bad for the wind," but this is as near as he came 
to specializing in diet. Exercise, without profuse perspira- 
tion, meant nothing to him. The steady grind of a worker 
who burns up so much excess fat daily, yet without any un- 
usual degree of perspiration, is something he took no account 
of. 

Of recent years it has been learned that abstinence, hot 
baths and purgation, are far less efficacious in keeping down 
weight than continuous and vigorous exercise within the fa- 
tigue limit. It is much less a matter of starvation and 
elimination than of a steady oxidation of superfluous tissue 
by graded and varied exercises extending throughout the day. 
But while constant exercise is the chief essential, it is also 
important to curb the appetite for food and drink, and to 
keep the excretory organs active. Otherwise, in the case of 
novices at least, increased exercise will provoke increased 
appetite for food and drink, so that not a few people gain 
flesh while trying to lose it. 

Doubtless the best plan for reducing flesh without suffering 
and violence is to do a great amount of work daily, severe 
enough in character to oxidize much body fat, but without 
profuse waste of fluids by sweating, etc. In regard to the 
meals, these should be small, light and as frequent as desired. 
Nothing should be taken to provoke thirst. Any food-article 
whatever which is especially rich in starch, sugar or fat, along 
with alcoholics, must be omitted. Such individuals thrive 
best on toast or biscuit without butter; lean meats, fish and. 
eggs; and vegetables which grow above ground. 



373 DIET IN DISEASE 

The selection of food differs but little from the diabetic 
regimen, but some carbohydrates are allowed, while the fatty 
articles, including milk, permissible in diabetes, are to be 
avoided. The patient is not to be stinted in quantity pro- 
vided he takes the necessary amount of exercise. He may 
breakfast freely on eggs, meat and toast, dine on meats and 
salad vegetables, etc. He should take as little iluid as pos- 
sible with his meals, but may quench his thirst between meals. 
By masticating his food thoroughly he materially reduces the 
demand, and does away with eating for the mere sake of eat- 
ing. 

By simple measures of this sort an individual may reduce 
his weight to as great degree as desirable, and the process 
will not be painful but the reverse. He simply oxidizes and 
otherwise utilizes a little more matter than he takes in, and 
thereby prevents a pathological and unsafe accumulation of 
fat. 

DIET: Fish. — All fresh white fish broiled or boiled. 

Meats. — Lean mutton or lamb, beef, chicken, game (sparingly). 

Eggs. — • Cooked in all ways ( not fried ) . 

Farinaceous. — ^Dry toast or crusts, stale bread (sparingly). 

Vegetables. — Lettuce, celery, spinach, cresses, asparagus, cauli- 
flowers, white cabbage, onions, tomatoes, radishes, olives. 

Liquids. — Coffee or tea, one cup without milk, cream or sugar; 
pure water one glass, drank slowly after the meal. 

AVOID. — Dark flesh flsh, rich soups, salt fish, veal, pork, sausage, 
fats, potatoes, oatmeal, hominy, macaroni, spices, rice, carrots, beets, 
turnips, parsnips, puddings, pastry, pies, sugar, sweets, cakes, 
cream, milk, spirituous liquors, beers, sweet rums, champagne. 



CHAPTER XVI 
DIET IN DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 

ACUTE GASTRITIS 
Einhorn i 

During the first or second day of illness it is best not to 
give the patient anything substantial to eat. Strained barley 
or rice water, or weak tea may be taken. On the third day, 
as soon as the appetite reappears, the patient is permitted to 
partake of water soup (bread and hot water) oatmeal or bar- 
ley gruel, rice soup, and perhaps one soft-cooked egg. Later 
on French bread, butter and oysters may be added to the 
dietary. 

If the improvement is steadily progressing the fourth day 
begin with meat once a day, and thus slowly return to the 
usual bill of fare. 

CHEOITIC GASTRITIS 
Einhorn ^ 

The regulation of the diet is of prime importance in the 
treatment. The dietary to be selected will depend on the 
severity of the symptoms. 

At the beginning, therefore, a light diet will be called 
for. The patient should partake of four meals daily. The 
articles of food should be given largely in liquid and semi- 
liquid forms; that is, milk, kumyss, matzoon, barley, oat- 
meal, and rice soup prepared in milk; chicken soup with an 
egg beaten up in it ; soft-cooked eggs, mashed potatoes, scraped 
meat, raw, or boiled, toasted bread, and also French white 
bread (not too fresh) ; butter; tea and cocoa. 

'Max Einhorn, M.D. : "Disease of the Stomach." New York. Wil- 
liam Wood & Co. 

373 



374 DIET IN DISEASE 

The quantity of nourishment for each meal should neither 
be excessively large nor too small. 

My own bill of fare for the first week of the treatment is as 
follows : 

Eight o'clock: Calories. 

Two eggs 160 

Two ounces of French white bread 156 

One-half ounce of butter 107 

One cup of tea (100 gm. of tea, .150 gm. milk) 101 

Sugar 10 gm. (3 iiss.) 40 

Half past ten o'clock: 

Kumyss or matzoon or milk, 250 gm. (J viii. 1/3) 168 

Crackers, 30 gm. (one ounce) 107 

Butter, 20 gm. (3 v.) 163 

Half past twelve o'clock: 

Two ounces of tenderloin steak, or of white meat of chicken. 76 

Mashed potatoes, or thick rice, 100 gm. (J iii. 1/3) 127 

White bread, two ounces 153 

Butter, one-half ounce 107 

One cup of cocoa, 200 gm. (3 vi. %) 101 

Half past three o'clock: 

The same as half past ten 438 

Half past six o'clock: 

Farina, hominy, or rice boiled in milk, one plateful, 250 gm. 

(3 viii. 1/3) 440 

Two scrambled eggs 160 

Bread, two ounces 156 

Butter, one-half ounce 107 

2.863 

The patient ' having been kept on this diet for a week or 
two, the diet must be gradually changed to one suitable for 
the lighter forms of chronic gastritis. Here the following 
rule will apply: The diet should correspond as nearly as 
possible to the common mode of living. In this way the dis- 
tribution of the meals should be arranged according to the 
customs prevailing in those places in which the patient lives. 

All food derived from the vegetable kingdom should be 
given in large portions, while the quantity of meat should be 
somewhat limited. 



DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 375 

In order to permit the patient to have a greater variety 
in his food, it is best not to point out a few articles he 
should eat, but to mention only those he should avoid. For- 
bid meat with very tough fibers, meat from too old animals 
or too fresh meat (right after slaughtering), meat that con- 
tains too much fat, like pork; forbid sausages, lobster, sal- 
mon, chicken salad, mayonnaise, cucumbers, pickles, cabbage, 
strong alcoholic drinks like liquors. 

It must be impressed upon the patient to masticate the 
food thoroughly, to eat slowly, not to think of business dur- 
ing meals, and to stop eating before the sensation of satiety 
appears. The latter advice is only necessary in persons who 
are accustomed to high living. 

Chronic gastric catarrh is frequently combined with con- 
stipation. The diet can be arranged as to facilitate move- 
ment of the bowels. All foods which contain a large per- 
centage of cellulose (undigested matter) increase the quantity 
of feces, thereby effecting a stronger peristalsis of the larger 
bowel. 

All kind of green vegetables (spinach, asparagus, green 
peas) and rye bread are therefore very suitable. Many or- 
ganic acids possess the property of increasing intestinal peri- 
stalsis. Almost all kinds of fruits contain a certain quantity 
of these organic acids, and act like mild aperients. The use 
of cooked pears, stewed or baked apples, stewed prunes, is in 
many instances effective. Ewald recommends a mixture of 
two parts of prunes to one part of dried figs. The taste is 
agreeable, and the cathartic action mild. The custom of 
eating an orange in the morning for its laxative effect is well 
known. To these dietary remedies we may also add the use 
of a glassful of either very cold or warm water, or a glass of 
milk in arising, in the fasting condition. 

There are many persons in whom one of these latter means 
produces a good movement of the bowels. 



376 DIET IN DISEASE 

ULCER OF THE STOUACH 
Einhorn i 

The diet consists of liquids — milk, milk with strained 
barley, or oatmeal, or rice water; plain water, weak tea and 
peptone (one teaspoon to a cup of water). Debove and 
Eemond have suggested the addition of lactose and of meat 
powder to the milk, in order to make the diet richer in 
nourishment substances. 

As a rule, we employ the above-named additions, which 
fulfill the same purposes, besides varying the monotonous bill 
of fare. 

Pirst week. During the first week we give the patient half 
a cup (about 100-150 c.c.) of either, every hour. Every- 
thing the patient takes must be neither cold or very warm, 
and should be taken slowly (sipping, or with a spoon). 

Second week. During the second week we order the same 
kind of food, with this difference, that he is nourished every 
two hours, and gets a cupful or a cupful and a half (300 to 
300 c.c.) at a time. 

Occasionally we now allow the patient one raw egg beaten 
up in the milk, once or twice a day. In the beginning of the 
third week we feed the patient every three hours; he is al- 
lowed barley, farina, and rice (well cooked) in milk, soft- 
cooked eggs, crackers softened in milk, in addition to his 
previous foods; in the third day of the third week we begin 
to give the patient meat, first raw, well scraped, then broiled. 

Thereafter we go over to the ordinary daily diet, exclud- 
ing heavy salads, pastry, raw fruit and the like. 

In the following table I give an outline of diet which I 
ordinarily prescribe in this affection : 

OUTLINE OF DIET IN GASTRIC ULCER 
First Three Days 

Number of 
Calories. 

7 A. M. : milk, 150 C.C. (five ounces) 101 

8 " milk, 150 C.C. (five ounces) 101 

> Max Einhorn, M.D. : "Disease of the Stomach." New York. Wil- 
liam V7ood & Go. 



DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 377 

9 A. M.: milk, 150 C.C. (five ounces) 101 

10 " milk and strained barley water (aa, 150 C.C.) .... 80 

11 " milk, 150 C.C 101 

12 " milk, 150 C.C 101 

1 P. M. : bouillon either alone or with the addition of one to 

two teaspoonfuls of a peptone preparation, 150 

C.C 30 

2 " milk 101 

3 " milk 101 

4 " milk 101 

5 " milk with strained barley or oatmeal 80 

6, 7, 8, 9 P. M. : milk, 150 C.C 404 



7 


A 


. M.: 


9 




tc 


11 




tc 


1 


P 


. M. : 


3 




tc 


5 




tc 


7 




tc 


9 




cc 



1.402 
FomtTH TO THE TENTH DAY 

Number 
of Calories. 

milk, 300 C.C. (ten ounces) 202 

milk, 300 C.C. (ten ounces) 202 

milk with barley, rice, or oatmeal water, 300 C.C. . 160 
one cup of bouillon, 200 C.C, and one egg beaten 

up in it 80 

milk, 300 C.C 202 

milk, 300 C.C 202 

milk with barley water, 300 C.C 160 

milk, 300 C.C 202 



1.410 

Eleventh to the Fourteenth Day 

Number of 
Calories. 

7 A. M.: milk, 300 C.C 202 

9 " milk, 300 C.C 202 

and two crackers softened (one ounce) 100 

11 " milk with barley water, 300 C.C 160 

1 p. M. : one cup of bouillon, 200 C.C, one egg, and two 

crackers 180 

3 " milk, 300 C.C, and one egg 282 

5 " milk, 300 C.C, 202 

and two crackers 100 

7 " milk, with barley water 160 

9 " milk, 300 C.C 202 

1.790 



378 



DIET IN DISEASE 



7 am. 



11 

1 p, 



7 A. M. 



10 



1 p. M 



4 
6:30 



FOUETEENTH TO THE SEVENTEENTH DAT 

Number of 
Calories. 

milk, 300 C.C 202 

milk, 300 C.C 202 

and two crackers (one ounce) 100 

milk with barley, 300 C.C 342 

scraped meat, 50 gm 60 

two crackers, one cup of bouillon, 200 C.C 100 

milk, 300 C.C 202 

milk, 300 C.C 202 

one egg (soft boiled) 80 

two crackers 100 

milk with farina, 300 C.C 342 

milk, 300 C.C 202 



2.134 
Seventeenth to Twenty-Fourth Day 

Number of 
Calories. 

two eggs (soft boiled) 160 

butter, 10 gm 81 

toasted bread, 50 gm 130 

milk, 300 C.C 202 

milk, 300 C.C 202 

crackers, 50 gm 166 

butter, 20 gm 162 

lamb chops (broiled) , 50 C.C 60 

mashed potatoes, 50 gm 44 

toasted bread, 50 gm 130 

butter, 10 gm. ; one cup of bouillon, 200 C.C 81 

the same as at 10 A. M 530 

milk with farina, 300 C.C 342 

crackers, 50 gm 166 

butter, 20 gm 162 

milk, 300 C.C 202 



2.820 



In cases of ulcer of the stomach presenting a more severe 
type — violent pains, frequent vomiting, inability to take 
food on account of the pains — or after hsematemesis, I 
usually have the patient abstain from any food whatever, 



DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 379 

given by the mouth, for a period of five days. The patient 
is then fed by the rectum. This is done in the following way : 
early each morning the patient receives a large enema of 
about a quart of lukewarm water, in which a teaspoonful of 
common tablesalt has been dissolved as a cleansing enema. 
About an hour after the patient has emptied the injected 
water, the first nourishing enema is given; this may consist 
either of a glassful of milk (about 200 c.c), in which a raw 
egg has been well beaten and a pinch of salt added, or of a 
cupful of water in which a tablespoon of a good peptone 
preparation has been dissolved. The temperature of either 
must be about 100° F. Such a nourishing enema is given 
three or four times a day. The quantity of the feeding enema 
is 300-250 c.c, and it is slowly injected by means of a foun- 
tain syringe and a soft-rubber rectal tube. The patient may 
frequently wash his mouth with cold water, and is allowed 
from time to time to keep a small piece of chopped ice in 
his mouth, and to swallow the melted water. The five days 
being over, the mode of diet is the same as described above 
for the ordinary form of ulcer. 

GASTRIC ULCER DIET 
Massachusetts General Hospital i 

1. Dr. Hewes's Diet for Gastric and Duodenal Ulcer. Two 
oz. milk, 1 soda cracker (powdered), 1 oz. sugar, every two 
hours. Give two to three days, then increase to 6-8 oz. milk, 
1-2 oz. sugar, 4 soda crackers, every two hours. Continue 
for two to three weeks, then adopt the following : Eight feed- 
ings in 24 hrs. : (1) milk and crackers; (2) Indian meal 
porridge with cream or salt; (3) potato puree, jelly; (4) 
milk and whites of two eggs; (5) soft custard; (6) hot choco- 
late; (7) pea puree strained through fine wire mesh; (8) 
milk and crackers. 

2. "The Lenhartz Diet." The " Lenhartz diet" begins 
with 100 c.c. milk and one egg daily, in teaspoonful doses, 

iDiet used at the Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston. 

Dr. Hewes, Physician to Out-Patients, Massachusetts General Hospital. 



380 



DIET IN DISEASE 



gradually increasing until at the end of four weeks a liberal 
mixed diet is allowed, always avoiding coarse vegetables and 
irritating substances. 

The gradual increase of food appears in the accompanying 
scale. 

In preparing the eggs they are beaten very light, without 
salt, a small amount of sugar frequently added, the bowl kept 
in a pan of cracked ice. At first the milk is given with 
shaved ice. Some of the milk, eggs, and sugar are made into 
custard on the tenth day. The beef is scraped and weighed 
after cooking; the ham is chopped very fine; occasionally 
lime water has to be added to the milk, and, if large curds 
form, the milk is diluted with barley water. Great care is 
exercised in the transition stages from liquids to semi-solids 
and finally to full diet. 



Lenhartz' Diet 



1 


1 


J4 


m 


1 


1 


N 


1 


l-i 

1 






1 


1 

2 


c.c. 
200 
200 


Cms, 


Cms. 


Cms. 


Gmi. 


Gms. 


Cms. 






2 


















3 


3 


300 


















4 


4 


400 


20 
















5 


5 


500 


20 
















6 


6 


600 


30 
















7 


7 


700 


30 


35 














8 


8 


800 


40 


70 


100 












9 


8 


900 


40 


70 


100 


20 










10 


8 


1000 


50 


70 


200 


40 
40 










11 


8 


1000 


50 


70 


200 


50 


20 






12 


8 


1000 


30 


70 


300 


60 


50 


40 












Continue for 3 weeks 









CHAPTER XVII 
DIET IN INTESTINAL DISEASES 

DIET IN DYSPEPSIA 

Modern clinical medicine does not recognize such a dis- 
ease as dyspepsia. In a great variety of local and general 
conditions digestion is more or less disordered. It may be 
too rapid, too slow, difficult, imperfect for one or more of 
the classes of foods, or abolished outright. Specialists base 
diets largely on the results of test-meals, so that the diet in 
a given case becomes individualized. If a person with ordi- 
nary symptoms of chronic indigestion is to be dieted, and 
the cause of the affection is not known, the regimen for 
chronic gastritis will answer (p. 373). But if in addition 
to indigestion there is unusual irritability of the stomach, the 
diet must consist of most easily digested articles of solid food, 
and if necessary of semi-solid or liquid food. In other words, 
he is dieted like a convalescent from some severe acute dis- 
ease, or a child at weaning time. 

DIET : Soup. — Oysters and thin, clear beef and mutton soup. 

Fish. — Fresh mackerel, bass, perch, shad, cod, raw oysters. 

Meats. — Game, sweetbreads, tender meats, chopped meats, broiled 
calf's head, tongue, tripe, lamb, chicken, mutton and beef. 

Eggs. — Eggs raw, soft and hard cooked. 

Farinaceous. — Graham bread, whole wheat bread, corn bread, 
stale bread, dry toast, crackers, tapioca, sago, cornstarch, rice, oats, 
hominy, cracked wheat. 

Yegetahles. — Asparagus, celery, cresses, lettuce, green peas, string 
beans, sweet corn, spinach. 

Desserts. — Ripe fruit — raw or stewed ; apple tapioca, apple snow, 
baked apples, custards, junkets, lice, tapioca, cornstarch, or bread 
puddings. 

Liquids. — Liquid Peptonoids on cracked ice, pure cold water, hot 
water and milk (equal parts), malted milk, weak tea and coffee, not 

381 



382 DIET IN DISEASE 

more than one cup at a time and taken slowly after a meal; un- 
fermented grape juiee. 

AVOID. — • Ice water, spirituous liquors, nuts, cheese, ice cream, 
pastry, pies, candies, salmon, lobster, crabs, sausages, ducks, goose, 
salted, smoked or preserved fish; pickled, potted, corned or cured 
meats, kidney, liver, fried, foods, gravies, potatoes, turkey, stews, 
hashes, pork, veal, rich soups, chowder. 

DIET IK CONSTIPATION 

It is almost as difficult to prescribe a diet for constipation 
as it is for dyspepsia, and for the same reason, namely, con- 
stipation is not in itself a disease, but a symptom or result of 
many diseases. As a general rule, however, a certain diet is 
more or less suitable for any kind of constipation. By the 
latter term we usually mean a delayed action of the bowels 
due to a natural weakness of the muscles of the intestines, or 
to an acquired weakness due to too concentrated a form of 
nourishment or to a sedentary life. In a certain percentage 
of cases the delayed action of the bowels is due to temporary 
spasm of the intestinal muscle, and this may even occur in 
association with weakness of the muscle, as is seen in hysteri- 
cal women. There is finally delayed bowel action in a great 
number and variety of diseases. 

The resources employed in treating the diseases which 
cause constipation include many plans beside diet, yet the 
latter is indispensable. 

A mixed diet is very necessary, for purely animal food 
products, as meat, fish, eggs, milk, cheese, etc., conduce to 
constipation because absorption of such foods is so nearly 
complete that not enough residue remains in the intestines to 
stimulate peristalsis. On the other hand, a diet of vegetables, 
involving a large indigestible residue, causes large fecal mo- 
tions, but these are not promptly expelled unless the intestine 
is healthy. Much extra work is thrown upon the intestine 
when a vegetarian diet is used exclusively; and as a result 
of such excessive work the intestine becomes in time weak- 
ened. 

Constipation from whatever cause and of whatever nature 



INTESTINAL DISEASES 383 

may be, when sufficiently pronounced, sufficient to render a 
healthy man or woman sick. Digestion becomes impaired, 
appetite lost. This fact alone teaches us that in dieting a 
constipated subject we often have to deal with a sick in- 
dividual. It has often been stated that a patient or his life- 
long companions are better judges as to his diet than a 
physician hastily consulted. 

Ewald, and doubtless most stomach specialists, are opposed 
to an exclusive calorie plan of feeding in all gastro-intestinal 
diseases. This is natural because food which is theoretically 
indicated cannot be managed by the digestive organs. If an 
attempt is made to feed a patient thus affected with 3000 
calories of food, the result will be complete repugnance to 
all food. The amount of food ingested in these cases, in 
the most palatable and digestible form, cannot come up to 
the calorie standard. The quantity ingested in such pa- 
tients is so low as to be quite beneath the efficient level. The 
inference is natural that such patients must draw on their 
reserve fund to make up the calories. 

Hence the only course to pursue is to cure the condition 
which causes the constipation as soon as possible. For mere 
sluggish action of the bowels, not amounting to disease, many 
popular dietetic remedies are employed. It is by no means 
certain that this delayed action in many healthy persons is 
other than natural or temperamental. Fletcher has shown 
that as a result of his reduced diet and excessive mastication , 
of food which contains not much indigestible residue, sterile 
and odorless feces are formed which cause no discomfort, and 
insists that such people need have no anxiety about their 
bowels. On the other hand, very many people who have reg- 
ular daily evacuations suffer from retention of fecal matter; 
only careful palpation of the sigmoid flexure will inform us 
as to whether the bowels are actually empty. 

Of household dietetic procedures for securing daily evacua- 
tions, the most common is the drinking of cold water on ris- 
ing — one, two or more glasses. To this a little common salt 
may be added. Many men depend for their morning evacua- 



384 DIET IN DISEASE 

tion on smoking a cigar after breakfast. Women, as already 
stated, find the morning draught of cold water valuable. 
The use of fruit at or before breakfast often causes an evacua- 
tion during the day. This is true especially of apples, pears, 
oranges, etc. Buttermilk is also largely used for this purpose. 
The vegetable acids with the large amount of indigestible 
residue make certain fruits valuable as laxatives. This is 
true also of berries, although those which contain tannin 
(blackberries) may tend to constipate. Dried fruits, such as 
figs and prunes are especially useful. The use of sweet cider 
as a marked laxative seems to illustrate again the laxative 
power of vegetable acids. Very sweet substances in large 
amounts, chiefly honey and molasses are notably laxative. 
Oatmeal, among the cereal foods, is noted for its laxative 
powers. Beans and peas, popularly believed to be laxative, 
are really constipating; but the fermentation of the large 
amount of cellulose gives the illusion of impending diarrhoea. 
Oils and fats are laxative to many people. A word of cau- 
tion must here be inserted. Many of these substances care- 
lessly spoken of as laxatives, often behave as violent purga- 
tives, especially in individuals who alternate between consti- 
pation and diarrhoea. The severe diarrhoea set up at times 
by sweet cider, molasses and other relatively inert sub- 
stances should teach us caution in giving such articles to 
patients. 

No more important hygienic regimen can be adopted than the fol- 
lowing: 1. Eat fruit before retiring (experiment and find what 
fruit seems to agree). 2. Three-quarters of an hour before breakfast 
drink two glasses of cold water and exercise ten minutes in room 
before open window or take a brisk walk. If this regimen were 
followed daily by children and grown people there would be less 
illness. 

DIET: Soup. — Oyster soup, meat broths, Liquid Peptonoids bouil- 
lon. 

Fish. — Raw oysters, fresh fish of all kinds broiled or boiled. 

Meats. — Game, poultry, almost any fresh meats. 

Farinaceous. — Eye bread, brown bread, graham, corn and whole 
wheat bread, hominy, mush, cereals, Bran Cookies. 

Vegetailes. — Salads with oil, string beans, green peas, green corn. 



INTESTINAL DISEASES 385 

asparagus, potatoes, cauliflower, spinach, brussels sprouts,' onions, 
boiled. 

Desserts. — Simple and light-apple and fig puddings, plain pud- 
ding, as custards, whips, and gelatin, etc., junkets, ice cream, sherbet, 
ices, hominy, raisins, cherries, huckleberries (the blue seedless kind), 
grapes, melons, apples, oranges, pears, ripe peaches, baked apples, 
with cream, figs, stewed prunes. 

Liquid. — Unfermented grape juice, plenty of pure water, cold or 
hot; black coffee, cocoa, new cider, buttermilk, orange juice, malted 
milk. 

AVOID. — Spirituous liquors, pineapple, cheese, nuts, tea, sweets, 
milk, pastry, rich puddings, rice, tapioca, new bread, eggs, liver, 
pork, salt, smoked, potted or preserved fish or meats. 

DIET IN DIARRHOEA 

The term diarrhoea, like dyspepsia and constipation, repre- 
sents only a symptom or result of various diseases. While 
this affection cannot be cured by a dietetic plan alone, certain 
foods are known to be constipating and in treating the under- 
lying conditions attention to diet is all-important. It con- 
sists as much in, avoiding laxative articles as in using consti- 
pating articles. Thus cheese and hard-boiled eggs are highly 
constipating to most individuals, yet they could not be em- 
ployed in a diarrhoea which was due to or associated with 
gastritis. Hence foods known to be constipating must also 
be bland and easily digested. Pood nearly all of which may 
be absorbed naturally antagonizes diarrhoea from any cause. 
The commonest articles used in this class are flour porridge, 
cooked white of eggs, boiled milk, toasted crackers, zwieback, 
rice, chocolate. Meat should be of the most tender and diges- 
tible nature, as sweetbreads, tongue, tenderloin of beef, etc. 
Dried beef powder may be mixed with 5 per cent, tannic acid. 
Articles which naturally contain the latter are useful if di- 
gestible. Acorn coffee is recommended by some. 

In a daily menu compiled by Ewald the following articles 
enter: Soft eggs, milk, toasted bread, zwieback, scraped 
beef, breast of chicken, the most digestible kinds of fish, 
soups and broths (to the latter may be added Dry Pepto- 
noids Soluble, Sanatogen and other semi-proprietary condensed 



386 DIET IN DISEASE 

protein foods). Articles used in diet list for constipation 
must be avoided. 

Uassachusetts General Hospital i 

DIET. — Stale bread, dry toast, crackers, butter, rice, soft cooked 
eggs, eggs and milk, flour and milk puddings, boiled and peptonised 
milk, tea, custards, blane-mange, wine jelly, oatmeal, oysters, gruel, 
chicken. 

AVOID. — Soups, animal broths, fresh bread, fruits, vegetables, 
fried dishes, fish, saccharine foods, salt meats, veal, lamb and pork. 

DYSENTERY 
Thompson 2 

During an attack of acute dysentery the patient should be 
kept absolutely quiet in bed, and should not be allowed to 
rise for the movement of the bowels, making use of a bed- 
pan instead. Throughout the active stage the diet must be 
strictly confined to easily digestible food, and in most cases it 
is wisest to give only predigested fluid articles. Peptonised 
or pancreatinized milk, or boiled milk, pressed-meat jttice, 
whey, or raw egg albumin beaten with sherry and flavored 
with nutmeg are recommended. Many patients do best upon 
a diet of raw scraped beef or meat balls. 

In cases of acute dysentery, and especially in the amoebic 
form, the loss of strength, antemia, and emaciation progress 
very rapidly, and the strength must be supported by stimula- 
tion, for which brandy is preferable to whiskey. 

During convalescence the diet must be very cautiously in- 
creased, and confined to food which is promptly and com- 
pletely digested, leaving but little residue. For this purpose 
animal food should be chiefly eaten, while fish, tender beef- 
steak, roast beef, boiled or broiled chicken, eggs, custard, 
blanc-mange, dry toast, junket, well-boiled rice, or wine jelly, 
may be given. All fruits and vegetables must be forbidden, 
and butter and cream should be taken sparingly. 

If the disease occurs in infancy, the child, if possible, 
should be fed at the breast. Otherwise all milk and water 

^ Diet used at the Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, 
' W, Oilman Thompson, M.D. : " Practical Dietetics. ' ' New York. D. 
Appleton & Oo. 



INTESTINAL DISEASES 387 

given should be Pasteurized. Beef tea and mutton broth, 
may be allowed in moderation, and special care should be 
observed not to overfeed. 

DIET FOR ACUTE COLITIS (DYSENTERY) 
Uassachusetts General Hospital i 
Purge and starve one day, then: lean meat, 100 gms., 3 
times daily ; albumin water of 3 eggs, 6-8 times daily. Con- 
tinue for 4 days, then add: skimmed milk, 16 oz. ; toast (no 
butter), 3 slices with maple syrup; rice, 50 gms. daily. After 
10 days increase toast, give butter, macaroni, tapioca, cream, 
cheese and Indian meal mush. 

CHRONIC DYSENTERY 
Thompson 2 

Chronic dysentery is often best treated by an exclusive 
milk diet of from two and a half to three quarts a day, with 
rest in bed or on the lounge. In other cases rare steak or 
roast beef or chicken and egg albumin may be allowed, with 
dry toast, zwieback, or crackers. The milk and meat diet 
may be advantageously combined. 

In Osier's opinion, if there is much ulceration of the colon, 
meat is not well borne, and it is better to keep the patient 
upon a diet which will give but little residue, such as boiled 
or peptonised milk. 

The stools must be examined every day or two to ascertain 
the presence of undigested fragments of milk curds or meats, 
oil globules, mucus, blood, etc. If improvement does not 
occur, the patient may be put upon a diet of egg albumin or 
Sanatogen with beef juice, or some of the preparations of beef 
meal or peptonoids, with pancreatinised milk. Eeturn to 
solid diet must be very gradual, and may be conducted on 
the lines directed for convalescence from typhoid fever. 

'Diet used at the Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston. 
^W. Oilman Thompson, M.D. : "Practical Dietetics." New Torlc. D.. 
Appletou & Oo. 



388 



DIET IN DISEASE 



ENTERIC DIET 
Dr. Vickery i 
Milk, strained gruels, broths and strained soups, milk whey, 
buttermilk, slips, eggs (soft cooked or raw), milk flavored occa- 
sionally with tea or coflfee, barley water, albumin water, beef juice, 
Iriquid Peptonoids. 



SPECIAL ENTERIC DIET 
Cutler 2 



Skimmed Milk 
Mellins' Food 
Skimmed Milk 
Eggs and Milk 
Beef juice 

Barley water 
Skimmed Milk 

Tea 
Chicken Broth 

Barley Water 
Buttermilk 
Skimmed Milk 
Beef Tea 
Skimmed Milk 
Albumin Water 



8 oz. 

8 " 

8 " 

8 

3 

3 

6 



with 
with 
with 



at 7 A.M. 
" 9 " 
" 11 " 
" 1 P.M. 



11 " 

1 A.M 
3 " 
5 " 



Skimmed Milk 
Skimmed Milk 

Tea or Coffee 
Beef Tea 
Chicken broth 

Barley Water 
Mellins' Food 
Albumin Water 
Beef juice 

Barley Water 
Buttermilk 



LiaUID ENTERIC DIET 
Cutler 2 
8 oz. 



4 times every 24 hours. 



with 



with 



with 



One soft boiled egg daily if desired or raw in milk. 

Diet used at the Massachusetts General Hospital, Bos- 
M.D. ; ' ' Diet used at the Massachusetts General 



^ Dr. Yickery : 
ton. ' ' 

''Elbridge G. Cutler, 
Hospital, Boston." 



INTESTINAL DISEASES 389 

APPENDICITIS 
Thompson i 

Dietetic Treatment. The dietetic treatment of appendici- 
tis, which has not yet passed into the surgeon's hands, should 
consist in giving only such foods as will be thoroughly ab- 
sorbed, leaving as little residue as possible to irritate the lower 
bowel and excite peristalsis. 

Until the outcome of the attack is decided it is best to put 
the patient upon a fluid diet, consisting chiefly of nutritive 
broths. Beaten eggs may be allowed, and a moderate quan- 
tity of pancreatinised milk, whey, or buttermilk. Cocoa may 
be given, and strained gruels of rice and barley. 

In recurrent cases the patient should be cautioned to eat 
moderately and avoid all coarse or hard food, such as grits, 
coarse oatmeal, tough meats, fibrous vegetables, the skin of 
fruits or potatoes — in short, everything likely to overload 
the intestine with accumulated waste. 

The operative cases should have the diet recommended 
after laparotomy. Usually the digestive organs require al- 
most absolute rest for twenty-four hours after the operation, 
and hot water may be sipped. No food at all should be given 
for fully six hours before operation. 

^ W. Gilman Thompson, M.D. : " Practical Dietetics. ' ' New York. D. 
Appleton & Co. 



CHAPTER XVIII 
DIET IN DISEASES OF THE GENITO-URINARY SYSTEM 

ACUTE BRIGHT'S DISEASE 

In dieting a patient suffering from acute Bright's disease, 
one fact to be kept prominently in mind is the difficulty that 
the system has in getting rid of its waste material • — espe- 
cially of its nitrogenous waste. Another point is that the 
diet should be such as to assist in carrying oE those inflam- 
matory products by which we know that the tubules of the 
kidneys are to a greater or less extent blocked. The amount 
of nitrogenous elements in foods must be kept down, and aid 
m.ust be given for washing out the products of inflammation 
from the uriniferous tubules. 

Water is the best diuretic. — -Hot water and hot diluent 
drinks. 

Diluted milk is the food that answers best, and skimmed 
milk has a high reputation as a diuretic. Buttermilk, whey 
and kumyss are useful. 

From two to three pints of milk, well diluted, given in the 
twenty-four hours, will in most cases be sufficient at flrst, 
but if the disease be protracted and tends to become chronic, 
a more liberal allowance of liquid food must be ordered, and 
broths may be added to the dietary. When milk alone is 
given it should be given in divided quantities at stated in- 
tervals — half a pint every three or four hours, diluted with 
half as much hot water or effervescing water. 

Between supplies of milk drink freely of diluent drinks. 

Diluent Drinks. Plain water, toast water, barley water, 
cream of tartar and lemon drinks, and the acid drinks are all 
useful diluents. 

Give between meals and drink slowly. 

390 



GENITO-URINABY SYSTEM 391 

CHRONIC BRIGHT'S DISEASE 

The kidneys are great agents in the work of excreting ni- 
trogenous waste, and if these organs become clogged with ac- 
cumulation of nitrogenous waste products they are not able 
to perform their functions. 

As soon as we have evidence sufficient to prove that the 
kidneys are laboring and are burdened by their work, we must 
endeavor to remove the strain by regulating the diet ; and one 
clear indication is to limit the supplies of nitrogenous foods. 

Large amounts of animal food and the use of alcohol must 
be stopped, and better stopped altogether. 

In many cases the effect of feeding the patient for six 
weeks, or even two or three months, upon an exclusive milk 
diet, is remarkably gratifying. The quantity of milk to be 
prescribed for an exclusive milk diet in Bright's disease must 
depend on the age and size of the patient, as well as upon 
his ability to take exercise and use up force in muscular en- 
ergy. If the patient is invalided so as to be confined to his 
room or the house, from five to seven pints of milk daily are 
quite sufficient. If the patient loses weight on a milk diet, 
although it otherwise agrees with him, it may be well to add 
farinaceous food in the shape of rice or bread. In the worst 
cases it is desirable to give the milk at brief intervals, 
in quantities of six ounces, once an hour during the day- 
time, with an extra tumblerful at night, and on awakening 
in the morning. 

The quantity of milk necessary to support life for any 
length of time and maintain good nutrition, especially if 
the patient is exercising at all, is considerable, and he must 
take from fourteen to eighteen, or even twenty-two six-ounce 
tumblerfuls of milk in the twenty-four hours. 

It is usually impossible to commence at this rate without 
producing gastric disturbances from souring of the milk in 
the stomach, and possibly diarrhoea. The latter symptom 
is an almost certain indication that the milk is being im- 
perfectly digested, and a temporary reduction in its quantity 
is advised. 



393 DIET IN DISEASE 

As the patient improves the milk diet may be giyen up, 
but it should never be too suddenly abandoned. In adopting 
any other diet it is a good rule never to let the nitrogenous 
food bear a greater proportion to the non-nitrogenous than 
one to four. 

When, after a milk diet, the change is to be made to a more 
liberal menu, the hours of taking the milk may be reduced 
in frequency, and some of the milk may be replaced by the 
more hearty food. 

DIET: Soup. — Vegetable or fish soup, broths with rice or barley. 

Fish. — Raw oysters or clams, fresh fish broiled or boiled. 

Meats. — Eat sparingly, chicken, game, fat bacon, fat ham. 

Farinaceous. — Stale bread, whole wheat bread, toast, milk toast, 
biscuits, macaroni, rice, cereals of all kinds. 

Vegetables. — Onion, cauliflower, mashed potatoes, mushrooms, let- 
tuce, watercress, spinach, celery, cabbage. 

Desserts. — Ripe raw fruits, stewed fruits, rice, tapioca, bread and 
milk puddings, junkets, cocoa. 

Liquids. — Toast water, weak tea, pure water, peptonised milk, 
malted milk, fresh buttermilk, milk with hot water equal parts, 
whey, unfermented grape juice. 

AVOID. — Fried fish, corned beef, hashes, stews, pork, veal, heavy 
bread, batter cakes, lamb, mutton, beef, gravies, beans, peas, malt 
or spirituous liquors, tobacco, coffee, ice cream, cake, pastry. 

NEPHMTIC DIET 
Uassachusetts General Hospital i 
Bread, soft puddings without eggs, all vegetables, except peas and 
beans, fruits of all kinds, gruels and broths. 
AVOID. — Meat, eggs, peas, beans. 

DIET FOR ACUTE NEPHRITIS, URIC ACID GRAVEI 
Dr. Hewes, Massachusetts General Hospital i 

Four days. Milk, 800 c.c. ; 32 per cent, cream, .300 c.c. ; bread, 
200 gms.; butter. Feed six times a day with mixture of milk, 150 
gms. ; cream, 1 oz. ; bread, % slice. 

Fifth day adopt the following: Milk, 800 c.c; cream, 300 c.c; 
rice, 50 gms.; tapioca, 50 gms.; bread, 100 gms. Occasionally ice 
cream or custard. 

* Diet used at the Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, Mass. Dr. 
Hewes, Physician to Out-Patients, Massachusetts General Hospital. 



GENITO-URINABY SYSTEM 393 

Vary diet from day to day in above limits. If oedema is present 
and fails to disappear change above to dry salt-free diet. At the 
start give no more liquid than above; after the oedema is gone 
water can be given as desired. 

Special Dry Salt-Free Diet. Morning. Salt-free bread, 2 slices 
(toasted if desired) ; an abundance of salt-free butter; maple syrup 
if desired. 10 A. M. Rice with small amount of cream or sugar 
(no syrup). 

Noon. Mashed potatoes with butter, no salt; salt-free bread, 2 
slices ; salt-free butter. 4 p. M. Rice, tapioca, or baked custard. 

Supper. Salt-free bread, 2 slices; salt-free butter; 2 eggs, soft 
cooked; 1 orange daily. 

Caution. Limit liquids to one pint a day, including milk and 
water. 

Salt-Free Nephritio Diets (na.lpin) . No. 1. Milk, 1500-2000 c.c; 
white salt-free bread, 400-500 gms.; butter (salt-free), 40 gms. ; eggs, 
4^6. (5-6 gms. NaCL contained.) 

No. 2. (Widal). Salt- free bread, 200 gms.; saltfree butter, 50 
gms.; salt-free beans or rice, 250 gms.; meat, 200 gms. (beef, chicken, 
or mutton); sugar, 40 gms. (1500 calories). (1-2 gms. NaCL con- 
tained. ) 

No. 3. Potatoes, 700 gms.; salt- free bread, 200 gms.; salt-free 
butter, 50 gms.; cream cheese, 50 gms. (200O calories.) (1-2% gms, 
NaCL contained.) 

No. 4. Potatoes, 1000 gms. without salt; meat, 400 gms. without 
salt; salt-free butter, 80 gms.; sugar, 100 gms. (2000 calories). 
(1-2 gms. NaCL contained.) 

No. 5. Potatoes, 16 oz. (without salt) ; rice, 6 oz. (without salt) ; 
meat, 4 oz. (without salt); cream, 8 oz.; eggs, 2. (without salt); 
sugar to taste. 

CONVrLSIONS IN BRIGHT'S DISEASE 

Convulsions in Bright's Disease. In the course of Bright's 
disease convulsions and unconsciousness may occur. The 
course to adopt is to encourage the action of the skin, there- 
fore place the patient in bed between warm blankets, pack 
hot water bottles around him, and send for medical assist- 
ance. — During this period the patient should live upon the 
exclusive milk diet. 



394 DIET IN DISEASE 

ALBTTUINTTRIA 
Thompson i 

Dietetic Treatment. The frequent return of functional 
■albuminuria should be regarded as an indication of special 
-weakness of the kidneys in the same way that frequent 
glycosuria invites suspicion of the strength of the digestive 
power of the liver, and it demands a careful regulation of 
the diet. Meat should be reduced in quantity, or temporarily 
forbidden, as well as all forms of alcoholic drinks, or other 
substances liable to produce renal irritation, and the diet 
should consist chiefly of fruits, vegetables, and milk. Care- 
ful attention must be paid to increasing the activity of the 
bowels. 

When functional albuminuria is observed in children and 
adolescents, it is not necessary, nor is it advisable in ordi- 
nary cases, to wholly exclude nitrogenous food, but it should 
be restricted, especially in regard to eating butcher's meat 
and eggs, and the evening meal should be made very simple, 
consisting of food such as bread, crackers, rice or porridge, 
and milk. 

^ W. Oilman Tliompson, M.D. : "Practical Dietetics." New York. D. 
Appleton & Co, 



CHAPTEK XIX 

DIET IN MISCELLANEOUS AFFECTIONS 

NESVOTJS DISORDERS 

Dietetic Treatment. The first thing to be done for a per- 
son suffering from nerve exhaustion is to adopt a dietary 
and a habit of life that will rebuild the nerve cells. The 
lost energy must be gently and slowly " coaxed " back — not 
through medicines, but through proper environments, proper 
employment and proper food. There is no disease that re- 
quires so little medicine as nerve exhaustion. The dietary 
should be simple and nutritious, abounding in lettuce, pars- 
ley and the fresh green edibles in season. If there is much 
intestinal disturbance, potatoes and foods that are rich in 
starch should be discarded. Active stimulants should be en- 
tirely eschewed. Take freely of unfermented grape Juice, 
malted milk and Sanatogen in milk or Vichy. 

In functional nervous disease, such as hysteria and hy- 
pochondriasis, the appetite, muscular elasticity, and mental 
powers will often be observed to be deficient in the early part 
of the day, and to recover their tone in the evening. At this 
latter time, therefore, it is advisable to make the principal 
meal. 

FUNCTIONAL DISORDERS OP THE LIVER (BILIOUSNESS) 

DIET: Soups. — Light broths, vegetable soups, with crackers or a 
little toasted bread. 

Fish. — Broiled or boiled fresh white flesh fish, raw oysters. 

Meats. — Eat very sparingly of lean mutton, lamb, chicken or 
game. 

Farinaceous. — Whole wheat bread, graham bread, dry toast, crack- 
ers, cereals, tapioca, arrowroot (well cooked). 

Vegetables. — Mashed potatoes — almost all fresh vegetables (well 
cooked), plain salads of watercress, lettuce and dandelions. 

395 



396 DIET IN DISEASE 

Desserts. — Plain milk pudding of tapioca or cornstarch, junkets, 
Btewed or fresh fruits ( all without sugar ) . 

Liquids. — Weak tea or coffee (without sugar or cream), hot water, 
pure, plain or aerated water. 

AVOID. — Articles of diet that are rich and highly seasoned, as 
curries, pies and pastry, strong soups, foods rich in fats, salmon, 
herrings, eels, mackerel, and other fish of an oily nature, elaborate 
entries, also rich sweets and creams, cheese, dried fruits and nuts, 
malt liquors, sweet wines, such as champagne, Madeira, brown 
sherry and port. 

DIET IN SKIN DISEASES 

Nearly all affections of the skin of constitutional or reflex 
(gastro-intestinal) origin, especially acne, eczema, psoriasis, 
seborrhcea capitis, pruritus, urticaria, etc., improve under 
dietetic measures and often recover under these alone. 
While no special plan applies to all, the elimination of sugar 
and sweets of all kinds, and substances rich in fat, as cheese, 
nuts, fried articles, etc., is essential. Pure fats like butter, 
cream, salad oil, etc., are, however, well enough in small 
amounts. Malt liquors and sweet wines disagree, largely 
because of the sugar therein; but alcohol itself is also prej- 
udicial in many cases. 

It is well to take all food in small rations, and masticate 
it thoroughly; for the prejudicial effect of food in skin dis- 
eases is often directly attributable to fermentation, favored 
by atony of the digestive tract, dilated stomach, constipa- 
tion, etc. Physical exercise is of great benefit in most of 
these cases. 

The diet and other regimen in skin diseases is much like 
that for obesity, gout and diabetes. All these metabolic dis- 
orders tend to produce skin diseases. 

DIET IN HEAST DISEASE 

In disease of the heart which has passed the period of com- 
pensatory activity, so that the organ is no longer able to 
discharge its functions perfectly, it is highly important that 
the stomach be not overloaded by heavy meals, and that the 
likelihood of flatulency be minimized as much as possible by 



MISCELLANEOUS AFFECTIONS 397 

care in eating, for distention of the stomach from any cause 
may be quickly felt by the pressure upon the weakened heart. 
Many fatalities come about in this manner; hence meals 
should be small, repeated when necessary. The food should 
be concentrated and should contain little waste material. 
Certain articles of food prone to ferment should be excluded, 
the patient's own experience being the best guide. 

On the other hand, it is also important to avoid increasing 
the blood pressure by giving too much water, which should 
be kept within a certain daily limit conformable to the good 
results obtained. Patients should not try to live on milk 
or take any mineral water cure. Anything which produces 
thirst — like > salted food, spices, etc., should be avoided, as 
should exposure to very hot weather. 

DIETETIC MANAGEUENT OF SURGICAL CASES 

Not much special attention is paid to dietetics until a day 
or two before operation, with the exception of stomach cases. 
Whenever a patient is to be operated on for a stomach affec- 
tion, many surgeons advocate the free use of articles rich in 
vegetable acids, believing that such articles are natural anti- 
septics for the stomach and intestines. These substances, 
while technically acids, are quickly changed to alkalies in 
the body, and tend to lessen the total acidity of the latter. 
Some German surgeons even allow such patients to eat freely 
of sauerkraut, sour milk, etc. 

In other cases, the patient is placed in bed, or is in com- 
plete rest for several days, and fed on very simple and nutri- 
tious articles in moderate quantities only. The old custom 
of fattening or building patients up before operating on them 
has largely died out. If the bad general state of the patient 
is due to the condition which is to be operated on, nothing 
is gained by such attempts. In the case of a rapidly prog- 
ressing disease, every hour lost before operating may dimin- 
ish the chance for recovery, immediate or ultimate. If the 
patient is in bad condition for withstanding an operation, he 
may often be operated on safely under local anesthesia. 



398 DIET IN DISEASE 

There are many resources to-day for minimizing the dangers 
of shock and hemorrhage. As a general rule the sooner a 
patient is operated on, the better, irrespective of the urgency 
of the condition. To live for weeks and months in anticipa- 
tion of an operation is believed by its depressing effect to off- 
set alleged attempts at strengthening patients. 

When a general anesthetic is to be given the patient must 
fast beforehand to such an extent that the stomach is empty 
at the hour of anesthesia. As operations are usually per- 
formed in the forenoon, the patient should take but little 
supper and no breakfast. Should the operation be performed 
late in the day, he may have a light breakfast. 

In emergency operations, the patient having taken fopd 
within six hours, the stomach should iirstbe washed out. 
This is also done as a routine procedure in all operations 
involving the stomach itself. Water may be given at any 
time. After the operation there is such a natural tendency 
to nausea that little or no attempt should be made to feed 
the patient for some hours. Only in exceptional cases in 
which the stomach is not upset and the patient complains 
of hunger, a little tea and toast, or milk may be given. In 
the great majority of cases no food is given until the follow- 
ing day. 

As soon as the stomach will tolerate it, however, simple 
nutritious food should be given in proper amounts. The 
tendency to-day is toward getting up early after operations, 
and against everything which tends to make the patient pas- 
sive and bedfast. The patient therefore needs more food 
than if he were to be bedridden. 

In patients who from any reason are unconscious or de- 
lirious after operation, some plan of artificial treatment is 
necessary, involving the use of the nasal, stomach or rectal 
tube. 

In any condition in which post operative vomiting will 
undo the results of operation, the diet should be extremely 
light and bland until healing has occurred, and it may be 
necessary to feed by the rectum. If the patient is unable to 



MISCELLANEOUS AFFECTIONS 399 

masticate he niiist be given only liquid or very soft foods. 

As a rule, when post operative feeding is left wholly to 
the discretion of the nurse, a certain rule is adopted as fol- 
lows: 

No food at all for the iirst twenty-four hours. Water may 
be given in sips for the intolerable thirst and in addition to 
plain water, the patient may receive a swallow of carbonic 
water, cracked ice, a little hot tea or black coffee, or some 
alcoholic stimulant. Toward the end of the period a tea- 
spoonful or two of milk diluted with lime water may be 
given. 

During the second twenty-four-hour period about one-half 
a pint of milk or some other liquid food may be given in 
small doses and this amount may be doubled on the third 
day. 

The third or fourth day usually coincides with normal 
bowel action, the patient having received laxatives on the day 
preceding. The patient as soon as this has occurred may 
go upon a semi-solid diet, so increased as to be regular at 
the end of a week or ten days. 

The diet varies notably with the patient and the kind of 
operation and its outcome and the responsibility for special 
provisions suited to individual cases falls upon the medical 
attendant and are modified from day to day under his direc- 
tions. 

DIET AFTER lAPABOTOMY, OVARIOTOMY, ETC. 
Thompson i 

After all operations involving opening the peritoneal cav- 
ity complete rest of the stomach is necessary for at least four 
or six honrs, and not infrequently for two or three days. 
Food an4 stimulants may be given by enemata. If fed per os 
for the first three days, not over a tablespoonful of pancrea- 
tinised milk or milk with lime water or barley water should 
be allowed, once in two or three hours. Later the quantity 

'W. Gilman Thompson, M.D. : "Practical Dietetics." New York. D. 
Appleton & Co. 



400 DIET IN DISEASE 

may be increased and the intervals diminished, and beef tea, 
beef peptonoids, and egg albumin may be added. 

In these cases the duration of anesthesia has usually been 
prolonged, and the shock is considerable. The danger from 
the occurrence of vomiting, fermentation of food, and flatu- 
lent distention of the abdomen is far worse than that of in- 
anition from abstinence. It is well also to precede the opera- 
tion by a day or two of dieting in order to lessen the bulk 
of intestinal waste matter. To this end the diet should, 
when possible, consist chiefly of lean meat and dry toast, 
vegetables and especially sweets being avoided. 

After wounds and operations affecting the stomach or in- 
testines no food at all should be given by the mouth. N'oth- 
ing but a little cracked ice should be so administered, and 
all nourishment must be supplied for several days by the 
rectum. The return to mouth-feeding must be made very 
slowly and cautiously by at first giving not over one or two 
tablespoonfuls of pancreatinised milk or beef juice at a time. 

There is often much thirst following operations involving 
the peritonaeum, which is relieved more by hot fluids than by 
ice, which sometimes irritates the throat and increases the 
desire for drink. If there is danger of all fluids exciting 
emesis, a salt-water enema once in three or four hours will 
alleviate thirst. 



CHAPTER XX 
DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

MOTHERHOOD 

DIET IN PREGNANCY 
Thompson i 

It is not customary to adopt any definite system of diet 
for pregnancy unless complications arise. If serious vomit- 
ing occurs in the early months, this should be treated in the 
manner described in following article. If albuminuria is 
discovered, meat and other nitrogenous food must be re- 
stricted, in accordance with the directions given for al- 
buminuria. If the patient becomes very anaemic, without 
albuminuria, meat, eggs, and milk should be eaten in abund- 
ance. 

The " longing " of pregnant women for various indigestible 
articles, such as pickles, chalk, etc., are largely mythical, and 
occurs, if at all, only as an accompaniment of a general hys- 
terical condition, not as a peculiarity of the period of preg- 
nancy. Pregnant women, however, should live simply and 
avoid foods which are likely to produce dyspepsia, heartburn, 
spiced dishes, and heating drinks. 

They often sufEer from constipation, in which case fruits 
and coarse cereals, such as oatmeal or wheaten grits, may be 
of service. The stomach, especially at night, should not be 
overloaded. The idea formerly prevalent that pregnant 
women need to eat food containing abundant phosphates and 
lime salts, to furnish the embryo with material for making 

1 W. Gilman Thompson, M.D.: "Practical Dietetics," New York. D. 
Appleton & Co. 

401 



403 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

bones, as a hen eats lime to make egg shells, is no longer 
accepted. The salts in question are sufficiently contained 
in an ordinary mixed diet, such as any pregnant woman may 
eat, if plainly cooked. 

Another theory, equally ingenious and directly opposed 
to the one above mentioned, is only interesting historically, 
for efforts to aid Nature in a process which she is abundantly 
competent to regulate unaided are now regarded as futile. 
This theory was that the agonies of labor would be less severe 
if the pregnant woman lived upon a diet of fruits and meats, 
avoiding bread and fresh vegetables during gestation, on the 
ground that the lime salts which they contain would favor 
early ossification of the infant's bones, and thus make the 
labor proportionately diflBcult. 

It will be observed that the first theory favors the child, 
and the second the mother, but practically it has been found 
that diet has little or no influence either way, so long as it 
is digestible, nourishing and sufficient to keep the mother in 
good general condition. 

VOMITING — SEASICKNESS — VOMITING OF PREGNANCY 
Thompson i 

The first principle in the dietetic treatment of vomiting 
from any cause is to give the stomach rest. If it has been 
overloaded with a large bulk of food, or with indigestible 
material, it is well to encourage emesis, and distressing retch- 
ing may be overcome by taking large draughts of lukewarm 
water. A quart or two will rinse out the stomach and allay 
irritation to a marked degree. 

Well nourished patients when serious vomiting fi.rst occurs 
should usually refrain from taking food of any kind for from 
ten or twelve or even twenty-four hours. Exceptions to this 
rule are sometimes found in that type of seasickness, and 
sometimes in the vomiting of pregnancy, in which, as soon 
almost as the stomach is emptied, there is a desire to re- 
plenish the loss. 

' W. Gilmsn Thompson, M.D. : ' ' Practical Dietetics. ' ' New York. D. 
Appleton & Co. 



MOTHERHOOD 403 

In any ease in which the gastric irritation is persistent, 
it is necessary to give fluid food, and only in small oft-re- 
peated doses, preferably in predigested form. The food is 
best given cold, as a rule, although some persons can relieve 
nausea by sipping very hot water. 

A teaspoon of prepared milk, or in extreme cases but a 
few drops, given with a medicine dropper once in ten or fif- 
teen minutes, may be all that the stomach will at first toler- 
ate. 

The following is a list of dietetic substances which are 
commonly prescribed for the relief of nausea and vomiting, 
or for nourishment while those conditions exist: Cracked 
ice; pancreatinised milk; milk with sodium bicarbonate (ten 
grains), and cerium oxalate (five grains) ; milk and lime 
water ; Vichy or milk with Sanatogen ; milk and Vichy, soda, 
seltzer, or carbonic-acid water; kumyss and zoolak; beef ex- 
tracts and Liquid Peptonoids; Dry Peptonoids Soluble; raw 
meat pulp, scraped; strong black coffee; sour lemonade or 
lemonade and Vichy; clam broth. Dry crackers, dry toast, 
and ginger snaps will sometimes be retained in seasickness, 
or a cracker buttered and sprinkled with a little Cayenne 
pepper; brandy and soda; iced dry champagne; iced brandy 
diluted with water, soda water, or Apollinaris. 

Very severe and protracted cases may require lavage or 
nutrient enemata. Vomiting after abdominal surgical opera- 
tions is often controlled by lavage. 

DIET FOR THE MOTHER AFTER LABOR 
Society of the lying-in Hospital, New York City i 
Immediately after labor in a normal case milk diet is given 
for the first six hours ; at the end of that time regular diet. 
In abnormal cases the diet is ordered by the physician. 
In our regular diet stewed fruits and cereals are given 
very frequently ; no veal or pork is allowed. 

In cases of severe engorgement of breasts, fluids are re- 
stricted; a dry diet is given, which consists of the regular 

^ Diet used at the Society of the Lying-in Hospital, New York City. 



404 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

diet and one glass of milk with each meal; no tea or coffee 
and no fluid between meals. 

In cases of eclampsia milk is always given; also a large 
quantity of water, either hot or cold, and cream of tartar 
drink. 

All nursing women have extra quantities of milk. 

DIET OF A NUKSIWG MOTHER OR WET NURSE 
Thompson i 

The diet of the nursing mother or wet nurse must be regu- 
lated to prevent noxious substances from passing into the 
breast milk, and to keep her in good health, so that she 
does not suffer from constipation, indigestion, or anaemia. 
Her weight should not alter, and if she has menstruated once 
or twice the milk changes and may disagree. 

If milk does not make her constipated or bilious, she may 
drink it abundantly. She may take gruels and meat broths, 
and she should eat simple nourishing food, meat, eggs, veg- 
etables, and fruits. The latter, even if sour, do not react 
unfavorably upon the child, provided the mother's digestion 
is good, and they serve to keep the child's bowels active. The 
mother should forego the drinking of much tea and coffee. 
Beer and wine also should not be drunk unless they are es- 
pecially prescribed as a tonic. Wet nurses often demand 
beer, ale, or porter with their meals if they have been accus- 
tomed to it; but the popular idea that such beverages are 
especially beneficial is fallacious. Malt liquor sometimes 
causes the secretion of more milk, because more fluid is 
drunk, but the milk is no better for, it. A reasonable quan- 
tity of fluids should be drunk, however, or the secretion of 
milk will suffer. The fluid may be in the form of plain or 
effervescing water, milk, soups, etc. 

The mother or wet nurse should avoid all fatigue, worry, 
and emotional excitement of any kind, which may inhibit her 
digestive functions, and should take daily outdoor exercise. 

iW. Oilman Thompson, M.D.; "Practical Dietetics." New York. D. 
Appleton & Go. 



MOTHERHOOD 405 

On the whole, the best indication for the dietetic treatment 
of the wet nurse is the study of the condition of the child's 
digestion, bowels, and nutrition. A too meager diet for the 
nurse is soon evident in lack of nutrition and development 
of the infant. 

Drugs in Human MilJc. Not many drugs pass unchanged 
into the milk which are likely to poison the child through 
its food, but there are some which should be carefully avoided 
on this account. Such are belladonna, opium, morphine, and 
other alkaloids; iodin and its preparations; mercury and its 
salts; salicylic acid. 

When, for any reason, it becomes necessary to discontinue 
the nursing and to stop further secretion of milk, the diet 
should at once be made as dry as possible, and a minimum 
quantity only of fluid is allowed. 



CHAPTER XXI 
INFANT FEEDING 

GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS 

Infants may be fed naturally, artificially or by a combina- 
tion of both methods. When the child is at the breast of 
its own mother or another nursing woman, there is no indi- 
cation for artificial feeding as long as breast milk is plentiful 
and of good quality. If the infant no longer thrives on 
mother's milk or the mother is unable to nurse it, and there 
is no other breast milk available, bottle feeding is then indi- 
cated. It goes without saying that many infants, chiefly 
foundlings, have to be bottle fed from the start, but every 
efliort should be made to secure to the child its birthright of 
mother's milk. 

The subject of breast feeding and choice of a wet nurse 
are discussed thoroughly in special works which the nurse 
is obliged to study, and hardly belong to the general 
subject of dietetics. This is also true to a large extent of 
artificial feeding, because the physician's orders are so ex- 
plicit that they may be carried out by the mother or any 
intelligent woman. However, cases may occur, as they fre- 
quently do in hospitals, where the nurse is largely respon- 
sible for the thriving of the child, and is given only general 
instructions, if any, from the practitioner. For this reason 
a brief resume of the whole subject seems desirable. 

BREAST FEEDING 

The baby is first allowed to nurse after the mother has had 

some hours of sleep following delivery. This, however, is 

not actual feeding for the milk is not secreted as such until 

the second twenty-four hour period after birth. The first 

406 



INFANT FEEDING 407 

flow, called colostrum, differs from true milk in its compo- 
sition, providing a small amount of nourishment ready for 
absorption without digestion. The first attempt at nursing 
aids the mother by assisting the empty uterus to contract; 
while the colostrum aids the infant by stimulating the diges- 
tive tract and arousing peristalsis. In addition to the colos- 
trum the infant should receive only warm water for the first 
twenty-four hours. Should there be much delay in the secre- 
tion of mature milk it may be necessary to give the infant 
a little modified cow's milk having a very low protein content 
(1/4 per cent, to ^2 per cent.). 

Under ordinary conditions the mother begins to secrete 
mature milk by the second twenty-four hour period. Up to 
the third or fourth day, this milk is mixed with colostrum 
in increasingly small amounts, but this may be disregarded 
in practice. The child must be taught to nurse at stated 
intervals, for fifteen or twenty minutes at a time, alternating 
the use of the breasts.^ 

THE WET NUaSE 

When the mother is unable for any reason to nurse her 
child or to supply it with enough nutriment, the ideal sub- 
stitute is the milk of another nursing mother, who should be 
in perfect health and have a child of about the same age as 
the infant to be nursed. When the wet nurse is a hireling 
the moral risk is very great, for the nurse's own child if still 
living is largely sacrificed for the good of the other. It is 
also difficult to find a wet nurse of good character or educa- 
tion. It is particularly necessary to supervise her diet for 
she may be intemperate. Her own child may be illegitimate ; 
she herself may suffer from some venereal or parasitic dis- 
ease. 

COMPOSITION OF MOTHER'S MILK 

It is often advisable to collect enough milk with the breast 
pump to permit of an analysis. Milk within normal limits 
should average fat, 4 per cent.; carbohydrates (milk sugar), 

' See table of feeding according to age. 



408 BIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

7 per cent., and protein, 1:5 per cent. Such an analysis is 
unnecessary when the infant keeps well and gains in weight. 
Maternal nursing is of such vital importance that artificial 
feeding should be looked upon as a last resort and necessary 
evil, and carefully guarded against. If the mother's milk is 
found to be poor in non-protein elements and over-rich in 
protein, attempts should be made to remedy the disproportion 
by proper treatment for the mother. 

THE HYGIENE OF NAITTBAX FEEDING 

As a nursing baby spends most of its time sleeping, dur- 
ing which state it grows and develops, there must be some 
relationship established between sleeping and feeding. When 
it wakes from normal causes, it needs nourishment. Every- 
thing possible should be done to keep it from being wakened 
unnecessarily. Hence it is best left alone, in a dark and 
quiet room, with clothing properly adjusted. 

The baby should be weighed at birth and at regular inter- 
vals. It is natural for it to lose weight for the first week 
or so, but by the end of the second week it should have re- 
turned to its birth weight, and after that should gain steadily. 
Up to the fifth month, it should gain on an average from five 
to eight ounces a week and hence should then weigh double 
its birth weight. During the next ten months it should 
again gain its own weight, so that if it weighed eight pounds 
at birth it should weigh sixteen pounds at the end of five 
months and twenty-four pounds at the end of fifteen months. 
Teething, diarrhoea, hot summer weather, etc., tend to re- 
tard somewhat the natural gain. If it fail to gain from no 
apparent cause, the breast milk should be examined and a 
strict plan of feeding introduced. If there is too little breast 
milk, as very often happens, the mother should drink from 
one to two quarts of good milk daily, at regular intervals, 
during the night as well as the day hours. 

Some attention should be paid to the capacity of the in- 
fant's stomach, in all plans of systematic feeding, as shown 
by the following table : 



INFANT FEEDING 409 

CAPACITY OF BABT'S STOICACH 

Newly bom about 1 ounce. 

At 1 month about 2 J ounces. 

At 2 months about 3i ounces. 

from then on, up to the first six months, the gain is only 
fractional, so that at that time it is barely four ounces. 

One should bear in mind that the baby often craves water, 
rather than milk, and should always be offered it at intervals. 
It takes in this way one and one-half ounces or more each 
day, usually at the rate of two teaspoonfuls every four hours. 
This use of water tends to prevent overfeeding. It is a good 
plan to give the water in a nursing bottle, as in this way 
the child becomes accustomed to its use, and less difficulty 
is experienced at weaning time, or when breast feeding has 
to be partially or wholly discontinued for any reason. 

SCHEDULE FOK NURSING 

Up to two months of age the baby will normally demand 
the breast about ten times in twenty-four hours, or roughly 
speaking, every two hours, day and night. 

After the second month, the night nursings may be cut 
down to one, so that eight feedings in twenty-four hours will 
suffice, intervals from two to three hours. 

After the third month, and up to the sixth, it may be fed 
every three hours, in the daytime only. 

From the sixth to twelfth month, five feedings will suffice, 
all in the daytime, intervals from three to four hours. 

From the twelfth month to weaning time, four feedings 
suffice, about four hours apart, in the daytime only. 

The tendency of the mother's milk to grow scanty is usually 
very marked long before the nursing period is over. As al- 
ready stated, she should use milk freely as a milk maker. 
The use of malt liquors no doubt increases the milk supply, 
but if the child has any ailment, especially of the skin, this 
will almost surely be aggravated. No drugs have any power 
to increase the flow of milk. 

When the mother's milk is inadequate and no other breast 



410 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

milk is available, mixed feeding will be necessary. The baby 
receives just enough artificial food to make up the deficit. 
This is only what happens naturally at the weaning period, 
and is simply an anticipation of the latter. 

WEANING 

Children can be nursed for two or three years, but in the 
great majority of cases, a period not earlier than twelve or 
later than eighteen months is chosen to begin mixed feed- 
ing, so that the process may be made gradual or rapid as 
circumstances demand. 

As there is absolutely no difference between artificial feed- 
ing as a supplement to breast feeding and the same as an 
entire diet, the subject of substitute feeding is usually dis- 
cussed without special reference to the former. It must 
be remembered that breast feeding continued too long be- 
comes a confirmed habit, like a drug habit, against the in- 
fant's own welfare. It then is necessary to make it repug- 
nant by putting aloes, etc., on the mother's nipple. 

AHTIFICIAI OB, BOTTLE FEEDING 

When there is no breast milk available for the newly-born 
child, or for an infant of any age during the nursing period; 
or when the child has some breast milk, but not enough to 
nourish it; or when it has reached the weaning period and 
must be taken off the breast either suddenly or gradually, 
the general conditions are much the same; viz., the child 
must be nourished by some artificial fluid which closely ap- 
proximates mother's milk in composition. For this purpose 
ass's milk seems especially suitable, as its composition and 
behavior in the stomach are very similar to human milk; but 
as a rule, no better results are obtained with any kind of 
foreign milk than that of the cow, properly modified to ob- 
tain the right proportion of protein, fat, and carbohydrate. 

DIFFERENCE BETWEEN HTTMAN AND COW'S MILK 

Cow's milk has a larger protein content than human milk, 
and is richer in mineral matter. Human milk has a larger 



INFANT FEEDING 411 

sugar content and therefore a somewhat sweeter taste. The 
fat content of the two kinds of milk is about the same, and 
this is also true of the total solids. The following table shows 
the average composition of the two kinds of milk: 

Human Cow's 

Water 87% 87% 

Total solids '. 13% 13% 

Fatty matter 4% 4% 

Lactose 7% 5% 

Protein (see second table) 1.5% 3.5% 

Mineral matter 0.2% 0.7% 

The fat of cow's milk differs with the breed of milch cow, 
and may be as low as 2 per cent, or 3 per cent. The fat in 
human milk is quite constant in amount, but the protein 
content may vary from 1 per cent, to 2 per cent., the 1.5 per 
cent, in the table being an average. 

Human milk, in comparison with cow's milk, is very poor 
in casein, but rich in lactalbumin and hence, when coagulated, 
does not form large curds like cow's milk. The relations 
between casein and lactalbumin in the two kinds of milk are 
shown in the following table : 

Human Cow's 

Total protein 1.80 3.50 

Casein 60 3.00 

Lactalbumin 1.20 .50 

The high protein content and large proportion of casein 
in cow's milk are advantageous to the calf, with its rapid 
rate of growth, and complex system of stomachs in which 
large curds can be completely digested; but for the more 
slowly-growing baby, whose digestion is largely intestinal, 
the proportion of protein and the character of the curd must 
be modified. The fat of mother's milk contains more olein 
and more phosphor ized fat (lecithin) than cow's milk. The 
lactose is chemically the same. Freshly drawn cow's milk is 
neutral or amphoteric in reaction to litmus. Basic elements 
predominate in both cow's and human milk, and hence they 
are both technically alkaline. The acidity of cow's milk to 



413 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

certain indicators is due to the presence of acid salts, such 
as acid calcium phosphate. 

On standing, true acid is formed by the action of lactic 
acid bacteria upon the lactose. For this reason, cow's milk 
frequently reacts acid to litmus. Breast milk is practically 
sterile. 

GENERAL FRIKCIFIES OF HUE UODIFICATIONS 

It must be constantly borne in mind that anything but 
mother's milk is a foreign substance in the stomach of the 
child, and even to make a mixture agreeing in chemical com- 
position with the natural food is not to insure success. The 
general principles must be applied in a special way to each 
individual case. 

The first step in modification is the dilution of the pro- 
tein. Few new-born infants can digest pure cow's milk. 
Some require more dilution than others. Where the diges- 
tive powers are unknown, it is wise to begin with a low 
strength and advance as rapidly as the condition of the child 
will permit. From % to 1 per cent, protein is commonly 
recommended for the early weeks. 

The second step is the adjustment of the fat. Individual 
infants differ in their tolerance of fat as of protein. But 
inasmuch as the chemical and physical differences are not as 
great in the case of fat, it is usually not necessary to reduce • 
it below 2 per cent., and it should approximate the propor- 
tion in mother's milk as rapidly as possible. 

When whole milk is diluted, if more than one volume of 
water be added, the percentage of fat is less than two, and 
for greater fat content, fat must be added in the form of 
cream. Since it is difficult to get the right percentage in 
this way, it is customary to select a milk with such a ratio 
between the protein and fat that diluting one to the desired 
strength dilutes the other also to the required degree. This 
is accomplished by taking the upper layers of milk which has 
been standing five hours or more for the cream to rise. The 
upper layers have much fat and little protein; the lower. 



INFANT FEEDING 413 

much protein and little fat, and the adjustment is readily 
made by taking a certain number of ounces for dilution. In 
the laboratory, the exact fat and protein content can be de- 
termined by direct analysis. 

The third step in modification is the adjustment of the 
milk sugar. This can usually be given of the full strength 
found in mother's milk (7 per cent.). Since lactose com- 
mercially prepared from cow's milk is of the same composi- 
tion as that in mother's milk, it is only necessary to know 
the percentage already present in the mixture to be fed, and 
then add sufiBcient to make the desired strength. 

Besides these three main steps in artificial feeding, we may 
have as a further consideration the selection of a diluent. 
Water is the first choice, but to aid in the modification of 
the character of the curd, cereal waters or gruels, lime water, 
proprietary foods, etc., are sometimes prescribed. Carefully 
prepared, and regarded mainly as diluents and not as sub- 
stitutes for milk, the cereals and prepared foods are often 
useful aids. Lime water causes the mucin of the milk to 
swell, and tends to send the curd in soft condition into the 
intestines. It is also beneficial as a corrective of constipa- 
tion. 

WHAT DIITTTION TO USE 

The degree of dilution varies with the age of the child. 
Advance is made from low strength to higher as rapidly as 
the child is able to digest stronger food. Since it is usually 
necessary to begin with a formula weaker than mother's milk, 
it is desirable that stronger formulae be given as soon as 
practicable to compensate for this early loss. This is par- 
ticularly true as regards mineral constituents. On diluted 
cow's milk, the child gets less iron and phosphorus than in 
mother's milk, and while cow's milk is rich in calcium, it is 
doubtful whether this is as perfectly utilized as that in human 

milk. 

THE arANTITY TO EEEL 

The amount of milk taken by the breast-fed child is the 
usual guide as to quantity. (See Capacity of Baby's Stom- 



414 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

ach.) Both under-feeding and over-feeding are undesirable. 
The best criteria of proper feeding are the normal weekly 
gain in weight (averaging at least four ounces) and the gen- 
eral well-being of the child. A determination of the energy 
value of the diet is desirable as a control. For the first year, 
a child requires on the average 100 calories per kilogram of 
body weight. Seventy calories per kilogram is minimum for 
existence, and does not ordinarily provide for storage in 
growth. 

LABORATORY MILE 

With the development of the milk laboratory, it has be- 
come possible to obtain by prescription, pure milk of any 
given composition. Such milk is necessarily expensive, and 
since slight variations in the composition of formulae are not 
serious for the ordinary healthy child, the use of laboratory 
milk is largely limited to sick babies or those of rich parents. 

HOME MODIFICATION 

For the average child, milk can be successfully modified at 
home. The chief requirements are fresh clean milk, absolute 
cleanliness in its treatment, and careful following of direc- 
tions in making up the feedings. 

Clean raw milk is preferable to any other kind. Therefore 
certified milk should be used if it can be afforded. If this 
is impossible, then the best bottled milk. If this is pasteur- 
ized, the pasteurization should be at a low temperature. 
Loose grocery milk should be avoided. When the milk comes 
into the house, the bottles should be carefully washed, and 
set in the cold until needed. 

All apparatus used in preparing the baby's food should 
be kept by itself on a tray or table. Every vessel should be 
washed in soapsuds and then scalded in clear water before 
use. 

If there is a special nursing refrigerator, it should be 
cleansed daily with soda-water. 




INFANT FEEDING 415 

THE NURSING BOTTLE 

The tube bottles should never, under any con- 
sideration, be used. No matter how carefully these 
tubes and outfits are washed, small particles of 
milk will remain in the tiny crevices and cause 
inflammation of the intestines. 

Select the plain, graduated cell, without neck, 
wide-mouthed, covered with breast-nipple. Such a 
bottle can be thoroughly and easily cleaned. These re- 
ciuirements are met by the Ilygeia nursing bottle. 

When filled, the bottles are corked with non-absorbent cot- 
ton.^ They are plugged loosely, so that the steam may es- 
cape, if the milk is pasteurized in the bottles before putting 
into the refrigerator, as is necessary when the quality of the 
milk is ruiknown or when refrigeration is lacking. Before 
feeding, the bottle of milk is warmed to 10.5° F. (40.5° C), 
so that the milk may not chill the stomach of the infant, and 
thereby suspend digestive processes. After the nursing, the 
bottle should be carefully rinsed with cold water, then bottle 
and nipple washed with a suds of soap and water. liinse, 
boil in clear borax water for twenty minutes (nipples for two 
or three minutes), and set away in a porcelain dish filled with 
boric acid solution, one teaspoonful to a quart of water, or 
they may be emptied and filled with a plug of sterilized baked 
absorbent cotton, and will remain sterile until ready to use. 

The twenty-four-hour supply should be prepared at one 
time. For removing the milk from the bottle a dipper is 
most satisfactory, as the cream is not disturbed. A siphon 
may also be used. The milk sugar to be added should be 
dissolved in a little boiling water and strained. A bottle 
of sterile water should be at hand for diluting the milk. 
The proper number of bottles for the day's feedings (pre- 
viously sterilized) should be each filled with the prescribed 
amount, stoppered and put in the refrigerator, or if necessary, 
pasteurized and then quickly cooled. 

1 To cork the Hygeia bottle, a sterilizer cap is used to cover the cell. 
The cap has a small opening, which is corked with non-absorbing cotton. 
These caps are on sale by druggists. 



416 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

FORMULAE FOR INFANT FEEDING 

Many systems for percentage feeding of infants have been 
evolved. One of the simplest is the top milk method. The 
cream is allowed to rise. The upper third of the bottle con- 
taining practically all the fat, will contain approximately 10 
per cent, of fat; the upper half 7 per cent, of fat. In the 
upper third, the ratio of fat to protein is 3.1 ; in the upper 
half, 2.1; in whole milk, 1.1 (approximately). 

TOP HILE METHOD 
I. Emmet Holt i 

Top-Milh. To secure a milk for infant feeding which is 
fresh and at the same time one which contains an extra 
amount of fat, the practice has come largely into vogue of 
using the upper portion — a third, fourth, or fifth from milk 
purchased and delivered in bottles — after it has stood only 
a few hours. To this the term " top-milk " or " upper- 
milk" has been given. Different percentages of fat may be 
obtained by varying the amount removed and the length of 
time the milk has been allowed to stand. Top-milk and thin 
cream are practically identical in composition, although they 
may differ in freshness. 

If cow's milk from a mixed herd is put into bottles soon 
after it is drawn and rapidly cooled, it will be found that 
after four hours the upper fourth will contain nearly all the 
fat that will rise as cream, and that the upper layers will have 
nearly the same percentage of fat whether the milk has stood 
for four hours, for eight hours, or over night. This has been 
demonstrated in a series of experiments made for me by 
Messrs. Upton & Jeffers, at the Walker-Gordon Farm at 
Plainsboro. After the milk had been standing under the 
conditions mentioned, fat-tests were made with the Babcock 
apparatus of the different four-ounce layers of bottled milk 
which contained originally 4 per cent, of fat. The different 

'L. Emmett Holt, M.D. ; "The DiEeases of Infancy and Childhood" 
Fifth Edition. Copyright, 1897, 1902, 190S, 1907, 1909. D. Appleton & Co. 



INFANT FEEDING 417 

layers were carefully removed with a siphon, with the follow- 
ing results: 

Percentage of fat in — After four After eight Over night, 

hours. hours. 

Upper 4 oz 20.50 21.25 22.00 

Second 4 oz 6.00 6.50 6.50 

Third 4 oz 1.50 1.40 1.00 

Fourth 4 oz 1.20 1.00 0.30 

Fifth 4 oz 1.00 1.00 0.20 

Each of these percentages represents the averages, each test 
having been repeated many times, 110 difEerent tests in all 
having been made. It will be seen that after four hours 
the composition of the separate layers does not change very 
much with the period of standing. With this knowledge, it 
becomes a comparatively simple matter to secure almost any 
desired percentage of fat by simply varying the number of 
ounces removed from the upper part of the quart. 

This will of course not be the same with all milks, but 
will vary considerably according as the supply is from a good 
herd of selected cattle of mixed breeds (average 4 per cent, 
fat), a Jersey or Alderney herd (5.35 to 5.50 fat), or from 
widely scattered farms such as make up the general supply 
of any large town or city (3.25 to 3.50). It is therefore 
absolutely necessary for the physician to know with which one 
of these he is dealing, if the milk for infant feeding is to 
be modified at home from the difEerent layers of top-milk. 
More mistakes are made just here than at any other step in 
this method of feeding. 

The tables given below are sufficiently accurate for home 
modification, provided the fat percentage of the whole milk 
is known. 

From 4 per cent. Milk 

To secure approximately a 10% fat, remove the upper 11 oz., or 
about one-third. 

To secure approximately a 7% fat, remove the upper 16 oz., or 
about one-half. 



418 



DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 



From 525 to 5.50 per cent. (Jersey) Milk 
To secure approximately a 10% fat, remove the upper 15 oz., or 

nearly one-half. 

To secure approximately a 7% fat, remove the upper 24 oz., or 

nearly three-fourths. 

From 3.25 to 3.50 per cent. Milk 

To secure approximately a, 10% fat, remove the upper 8 oz., or 
about one-fourth. 

To secure approximately a 7% fat, remove the upper 11 oz., or 
about one-third. 

How to Obtain the Formulas Required for General Use. 
If one has at command three series or groups of formulas in 
which the fat has certain definite relations to the proteids, 
he will be equipped for the great majority of cases met with 
in practice. The three groups are as follows : 

First Series, those in which the fat is three times the pro- 
teids. 

Second Series, those in which the fat is twice the proteids. 

Third Series, those in which the fat and proteids are 
nearly equal. 




Fig. 



Fig. 2. Chapin's 
dipper for re- 
moving the up- 
1. The percentage of fat in different layers per layers of 
of milk. milk 



INFANT FEEDING 419 

Once thoroughly familiar with these groups of formulas, 
variations from them to suit the needs of the particular case 
can readily be made. In general, the First and Second 
Series, in which the fat is considerably higher than the pro- 
teids, are adapted to the early months, because at this period 
the infant as a rule has more difficulty in digesting proteids 
than in digesting fat. In the later months a higher propor- 
tion of proteids can be taken with the same percentage of fat. 
There are, however, other conditions besides age which must 
be taken into account, such as the vigor of constitution, the 
weight, and most of all, the peculiarities of the child's diges- 
tion. It is, therefore, impossible to say that at certain 
months certain proportions are desirable, and certain others 
at another period. 

Formulas in Which the Fat is Three Times the Proteids. 
This is nearly the relation which the fat and proteids bear 
to each other in a good sample of woman's milk. The easiest 
way to arrive at this would seem to be, first, to secure some 
milk or milk combination containing three times as much fat 
as proteids, and then dilute this according to the infant's age 
and digestion. After such dilution it will be necessary only 
to add the requisite amount of sugar and, when desired, 
lime water to complete the modification. This, in brief, is the 
whole process. 

The most convenient combination for dilution is one con- 
taining 10 per cent, fat and 3.3 per cent, proteids. I shall 
call it a 10 per cent, milk, and refer to it subsequently as 
the primary formula of the First Series. The 10 per cent, 
milk may be obtained by removing the upper portion (see 
Fig. 1) from a quart bottle of milk, as described (p. 417, 
418). This method will answer for persons who can obtain 
milk fresh from the cow, or for those who use bottled milk, 
provided the bottling is done at the dairy before the cream 
rises. The upper milk may be taken off with a siphon, spoon, 
or small dipper (Fig. 2) ; pouring off is not so accurate. 
For those who do not get their milk as above described, the 
additional fat can be secured by adding cream to the milk. 



420 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

To secure a combination containing 10 per cent, fat, equal 
parts of plain milk and the ordinary (16 per cent.) cream 
should be used. 

The next step is the manner and degree of dilution of the 
primary formula. It is convenient in our calculation to 
make up twenty ounces of the food at a time. Por such a 
twenty-ounce mixture it is seldom necessary to use less than 
two ounces of our 10 per cent. milk. When one wishes to 
strengthen the food he gradually increases the amount of the 
10 per cent, milk, one ounce at a time, making it successively 
three ounces, four ounces, five ounces, six ounces, etc., in a 
twenty-ounce mixture, the water, of course, being reduced 
by the same amount. 

These mixtures may readily be translated into percentages 
by remembering that the percentage of fat is always exactly 
one-half the number of ounces of the 10 per cent, milk used 
in a twenty-ounce mixture. Thus, using three ounces will 
give 1.5 per cent, fat; four ounces, 2 per cent, fat; six 
ounces, 3 per cent, fat, etc. The proteids will continue to be 
in every instance exactly one-third the fat, as in the primary 
formula. 

The amount of milk sugar needed to bring this up to the 
percentage usually required (5.5 to 6.5) is one ounce in each 
twenty-ounce mixture. One may obtain from a druggist a 
box holding exactly one ounce of sugar, or may measure in a 
tablespoon, calculating two and one-half even tablespoonfuls 
as one ounce. This" sugar is dissolved in the water used for 
diluting the milk. 

The usual proportion of limewater added is 5 per cent., or 
one ounce in a twenty-ounce mixture; this may be easily in- 
creased to any desired quantity. The foregoing directions 
may be expressed in the following table : 

First Series of Formulas. Fat to proteids, 3:1. (See p. 421.) 

Primary Formula. 10 per cent, milk — or fat 10 per cent., 
sugar 4.3 per cent, proteids 3.3 per cent. Obtained (1) as 
upper portion of bottled milk (p. 418), or (2) equal parts 
milk and (16 per cent.) cream. 



INFANT FEEDING 



431 



cu'-' 

•a 



O V0r005 
»0 vo 00 O ^^ 



4 




loooqio 


1 




"S <> v^J vd o 

« « 3 a :s 


u 


+J M 




8 






S 


8S 


°S^8S 


1-3 




tH CN (N CO pr^ 




^ 


a 3 3 a ;s 


1 


II 


II II II II II 


E^ 


^ 












a 


w *. ^ ^ .. 


1— 


6§ 


3 3 3 5 « 


og 


o 




Q^ 


^-f 




■■s 


-s 


« s s 5: !s 


s 


t^ 


N* t^ H N t$ 


g 


o 


o o o o o 


$ 


cs 


fO-^tovOi>. 


o» 


^ 




§* 


•t-4 


:: 3 ^ :: 3 








9 






■e^ 






Cis 


9 S 

o o ■ 




=0 


^-§ 


:s « :s S a 


c 


• -o 




S 


■ -cs 






'. '. o 

4-» 




^ 


>H S m 


3 3 « :i a 


fe. 










V ^ s IS ta 


S> 


s B ca 




'S 


s3^ 






^ !_; 1-1 M > > i-H 

m1-i > 

Making more than a twenty-ounce mixture will be found 
very simple if we calculate for twenty-five, thirty, thirty-five 
ounces, etc. Thus for twenty-five ounces we add one-fourth 



422 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

more of each ingredient ; for thirty ounces one-half more, etc. 
For twenty-five ounces of eleven, therefore, the exact formula 
would be: 10 per cent, milk, three and three-quarter ounces; 
milk sugar, one and one-quarter ounces; limewater, one and 
one-quarter ounces ; water q. s. to make twenty-five ounces — 
i. e., twenty ounces.^ 

Formulas in Which the Fat is Twice the Proteids. Here 
we first obtain a combination, or primary formula, in which 
the fat and proteids stand in the relation of two to one, and 
then dilute this, adding milk sugar and limewater to complete 
the modification. 

The primary formula most conveniently obtained for this 
purpose is one containing 7 per cent, fat and 3.5 per cent, 
proteids, or a 7 per cent. milk. This we may get by removing 
the upper portion from a quart bottle of milk, as described on 
page 418. Or in case milk and cream are used, instead of 
this upper milk, it will be necessary to add one part ordinary 
(16 per cent.) cream to three parts milk. The dilution is 
accomplished in the same general way as with the First 
Series. 

These formulas may readily be translated into percentages 
by remembering that the percentage of fat in any formula is 
exactly seven-twentieths, or about one-third, the number of 
ounces of the 7 per cent, milk in a twenty-ounce mixture. 
Thus three ounces in the mixture will give about 1 per cent, 
fat; five ounces will give 1.6 per cent.; nine ounces about 3 
per cent., etc. In the following table these directions are 
expressed : 

Second Series of Formulas. Fat to proteids, 2 :1. 

Primary Formula. 7 per cent, milk — or fat 7 per cent., 
sugar 4.40 per cent., proteids 3.50 per cent. Obtained (1) as 
upper portion of bottled milk (p. 418), or (3) by using three 
parts milk and one part (16 per cent.) cream. 

With these, as with the First Series, if more than twenty 

1 For method of calculating any number of ounces of any formula derived 
from 10 per cent, milk, see footnote on page 423. 



INFANT FEEDING 433 

ounces are required, we may make twenty-five, thirty, or forty 
ounces by using of each ingredient one-quarter more, one-half 
more, or twice as much.^ 

Formulas in Which the Fat and Proteids are Nearly Equal. 
In general formulas are more often used for healthy infants 
during the later months; but there are many conditions of 
disturbed digestion in which formulas having this relation of 
fat and proteids are desirable during the early months. This 
series of formulas is obtained by using as a starting-point 
plain milk and variously diluting it. The exact percentages 
of fat and proteids obtained with the different dilutions of 
milk, and the amount of sugar necessary to bring this up to 
the desired quantity, are shown in the. table below. The sugar 
in the higher formulas is reduced for the reason that with 
them the child will probably be taking a considerable part of 
his carbohydrates in the form of starch. 

Third Series of Formulas. Pat to proteids, 8 :7. 

Primary Formula. Whole milk: Pat 4 per cent., sugar 
4.5 per cent., proteids 3.5 per cent. (When using Jersey or 
Alderney milk add one-fourth water.) 

1 One may readily calculate any formula of any number of ounces which 
may he desired in either the first or the second series in the following way: 

There is wanted, for example, 35 ounces of a mixture containing 3 per 
cent fat, 6 per cent sugar, 1.50 per cent proteids. In this combination the 
fat is twice the proteids. It will therefore be derived from 7 per cent. milk. 

35 (No. ounces needed) X 3 (percentage fat desired) = 105 (parts of fat 
required). 105-4-7 (parts of fat in milk used) =15 (No. ounces of 7 per 
cent, milk needed). 

The amount of sugar required is found as follows: 

7 per cent, milk has 4.40 per cent, sugar. 

15 X 4.40 — 66 (parts of sugar in the milk used in the formula). 

66-^35 = 1.88 (percentage of sugar in the formula of 35 ounces). 

There is needed, therefore, an addition of about 4 per cent, of sugar to 
bring it to the desired percentage. 

4 per cent, of 35 = 1.40 (No. ounces sugar to be added). 



424 



DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 







&5 



ss 


&: 






oo 

00 c^ 


-§ 
c 



"OOOOOOOO 
01 

o ::::::: : 
w ■ " * : I : ; .* 

>>'2 loOOOOVQiOO 

Soddoooodd 

i^i^ ;::::::: 
^ :::.... : 

S88S8888S 

bjo 

w ;:;:;:: : 

4^00000000 

ca<So\'H>«ooooo 



O 

fin 
o 



S5. 












Ss 3 


i: 


a 


u 


0, 






0.^ ^ 


















n^ a 


V 




M 










g 






a 


4J 








a" " 


ts 


S! 


« 3 « 


o, 








a 








g= a 


» 


« 


3 « 3 



o» » " 



IhS a a a s a a 

a 
p. 

a ^ a 



J3a a a 



I 



■< 1-1 l-H ►> t> M hH I- 
l-H (-1 C 1^ ^ (-< I. 



INFANT FEEDING 



435 



09 

H 

M 

o 

CS 
|Z! 

M 
P 
(4 

w 

«1 <] 
hS 

Ph 

o 

n 
<l 





1 


Without 
Dry Sugar 
0.30 
0.70 
0.40 
0.70 
1.12 
1.36 
0.68 
1.06 
1.42 

79 
1.18 
1.42 
1.72 
2.04 
2.73 
0.69 
0.95 
1.31 
1.78 
2. IS 
0.79 

1 05 
1.42 
1.78 
2.13 
2.73 
3.38 
4.09 
4.09 
4 09 






3 geSCjeSCSMC^lCvlCNCNeNCNCSCNCMMeNCSCNCSCSeNC^r^CMCSeNMi-l^ 




o 






" 




6B __„„„^„„^„____„^_«-- 




^s. 




P 




ft 


;2 • -H» M (O O ■rt es O ■^ c^ ro ■* f- • o«to-*» o^M-^'OO'MJIijj;;^ 


o 

m 




p 

hi 




O 

§ 

§ 

o 


M fH vH M (N M (N es M M W) <0 (O t*S f) t*> ^ M CO CO (O ^ ^ Tj( -"flt ^ Tf" Tt< ■* H< ^ 


1 


^ » (N» C^ <M C^ TO to rO <0 rO (O fO (O to • ■* tP "* tC » »0 Ul >0 tO »0 "O lO i/l »0 


1 


1-H • fN» tO(OfO» '*^» 10101010"0» • iO«OlO» O • \0'00'0'0«'0 




O » to» • 'fH-int • io» • vco-CO* • • r-t~» • • • oogooooOQOoo 




as 


ioio»nio»o»'j>o'nio>o>o»o'0'o»o»rno»oio>mo»o»o«o»o<o«o>otn>') 




"1 agSgE8gRggH8SS8SK8SgSHSSgggggg 








Es.S888Sg^88888SgggSSS8SS88g8ggS 

^ ^'TPuiio»o»oioio'0'dvO'0««'0^0'dvo'd«'Ot^t^t^t^r-e^'0»o 




13 KSggS8SSSggggggSSSSS88g8888888 




Ph ^WMWMMMMCSrOtOtOrOtOtO(0(OtOtOtO'*'*-*Tt'T(^"*r»«^^'^ 




o -.<Mm««o.-ooo>g-22*2SS22SSSSSSSSSag 



426 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

For 25-ounce mixtures multiply the amount of each ingredient by I14 
" 30 " " " " " " " " 1% 

" 35 " " " " " " " " 1% 

tt 4Q tt li t6 t< a it tt a 2 

" 45 " " " " " " " " 214 

* Combination impossible with strength of cream indicated. 

Table for Estimation of Fat Percentages in Cream 

To determine the fat percentage of the cream: 
One quart of whole milk, of 4% fat, will yield on an average, ap- 
proximately : 

Cream 10% fat in upper 11 ounces after standing 8 hours or more. 
12% " " " 8 " " " 8 " " " 

16% " " " 6 " " " 8 " " " 

" 20% " " " 4 " " " 8 " " " 

Fat-free milk is the lowest 8 ounces after standing 8 or more hours. 

A sugar measure is approximately one level tablespoonful. One 
measure to a twenty-ounce mixture gives 2 per cent, of sugar, from 
which fact one may easily increase or decrease the sugar percentage 
in any of the above formulae. 



INFANT FEEDING 



437 



TABIE II 
Theoretical Basis for Peeding a Healthy Infant 



M 



2.00 



Prema- 1.00 
ture 

1.50 
At 
term 
End of 
adwk. 2. SO 
End of 
3d. wk. 3.00 
End of 
4th wk. 3.50 
End of 
6th wk. 4.00 
End of 
8th wk. 4.00 
End of 
12th wk 4. 00 
End of 

4 mo. 
End of 

5 mo. 
End of 

6 mo. 
End of 

8 mo. 
End of 

9 mo. 
End of 

10 mo. 
End of 

11 mo. 
End of 

12 mo. 



4.00 
4.00 



4.00 
4.00 



4.00 
4.00 



4.00 
4.00 



4.00 0.25 

4.50 0.25 

5.00 0.50 

5. SO 0.50 

6.00 0.7S 

6.50 1.00 

7.00 1.00 

7.00 1.25 

7.00 1.50 

7.00 1.50 

7.00 1.75 

7.00 2.00 

7.00 2.50 

7.00 3.00 

6.00 3,00 

5.00 3.00 

4.75 3 50 



Proteids if 
split. 









0.25 0.25 

0.50 0.25 

0.50 0.25 

0.50 0.25 

0.75 0.25 

0.75 0.50 

O.SO 0.60 

0.90 0.75 

0.90 1.00 

0.75 1.25 



Amount 

at each 

feeding in 



t M 

^ ta PI 
tl S o 



?.9 



r% 3 75- l-lj^ 24-18 
22.50 



1 

2 

'2^ 

3 

3 

4 

6 
7 



30 

60 

75 

90 

90 

105 

120 

135 

165 

180 

210 

240 

240 

300 

300 



2 

2 

2 

2 

2y2 

2M 

2H 

2M 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 



10 
10 
9 



Note.— The data giv- 
en in this table are sim- 
ply a guide to the rule 
for feeding of the aver- 
age healthy baby.They 
are only approximate, 
and not intended to be 
followed in cases of 
difficult feeding, with- 
out due consideration 
to the individual re- 
quirements. 



428 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

TABLE III 

Method of Calculating Whey Mixtures from the Card 

The percentages of fats, proteids, and lime-water are calculated by 

the card. Three-fourths {%) of the proteid in the formula chosen 

will be caseinogen, and one-fourth (}^) whey proteids, that is, 

Formulae calling for 0.25 proteid give approximately 0.20 caseinogen. 

« « *' 0.50 " " " 0.40 " 

" '' " 0.75 « " " 0.50 " 

« « « 1 QQ « « « Q 75 « 

" " « 1.25 " " " 1.00 " 

« « « 1 5Q « « « 120 " 

To calculate the additional amount of whey needed to make the de- 
sired whey-proteid percentage, 

Let W = number of ounces of whey needed. 

" Y=percentage of whey proteid desired. 

" P= proteid percentage in the card formula. 

" Q = total number of ounces of mixture. 



Then(i)W=Q [y-^]. 



The maximum in the percentage of whey proteids in any formula is 
obtained when all the watery diluent is replaced by whey. 
To calculate the sugar required beyond that contributed by the 
cream, milk, and whey. 
Let S=percentage of sugar desired. 
" L=number of measures, or level tablespoonfuls, of sugar to be 

added. 
" Z = sugar percentage as given in last column of feeding card. 
Then(2)L=Q(S-Z)-5W 

Example: 5L Fat 4.00, sugar 7.00, whey proteid 0.90, caseinogen 0.75, 

lime-water 5.00. Amount, 20 oz. 
Solution: Formula 23 gives 0.75 caseinogen. Use 16% cream. 

Cream = 5 ounces. 

Pat-free milk = 1 " 

Whey = 20 [o. 90— -^1=13 

Lime-water = 1 " 

nTn 20(7— 1.42)— 5X13 ,,^,,-,,. 

Milk sugar = — ^^ — ■ — j^ =1.16 (Ivs) measures. 



INFANT FEEDING 



439 



TABLE IV 
Caloiic Value of Formulae Crlven on Card 



No. 






No. 






No. 






1. 


334 calories. 


11. 


555 calories. 


21. 


642 calories. 


2. 


344 


a 


12. 


566 


tl 


22. 


648 


U 


3. 


401 


a 


13. 


576 


U 


23. 


690 


a 


4. 


•411 


a 


14. 


606 


U 


24. 


710 


u 


5. 


421 


a 


15. 


626 


(I 


25. 


720 


u 


6. 


452 


a 


16. 


591 


u 


26. 


741 


a 


7. 


458 


it 


17. 


601 


u 


27. 


762 


a 


8. 


488 


a 


18. 


631 


ti 


28. 


782 


u 


9. 


520 


u 


19. 


642 


u 


29. 


741 


u 


10. 


545 


u 


20. 


653 


It 


30. 


720 


a 



To Estimate the Caloric Value of Food Taken. 

Example : An infant takes 6 feedings of 210 c.c each of Formula 
25, the caloric value of which is 720. The caloric value of the food 
ingested is, then, 

—^Kf^ X 720 = 906.2 calories. 



To Estimate Weight Development of an Infant. 

To estimate the weight development of any infant, calculate as fol- 
lows: — 

Weight of an infant 

Weight index = 

Weight of average infant of same age 
Example: An infant of 18 weeks weighs 12 lbs. 

Its weight index =i%4=.85. Its weight development = .85X100 = 
85 per cent. 



430 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

TABLE V 

Methods of Calcalating approximately the Percentage Composition 
of a Food from Known Amounts of Ingredients used 

Let C=number of ounces of cream used. 
" M=number of ounces of fat-free milk used. 
" L= number of measures of milk sugar (or level tablespoonfuls). 
" Q = total quantity of mixture in ounces. 

^i_ /•« \ -r, i i CXfat percentage of cream 
Then (1) Fat percentage = pr — ^^ 

,^.-r, ^ -A ^ 3.50 (C+M). 

(2) Proteid percentage = — 



(3) Sugar percentage 



Q 

4.75 (C+M) +40 L. 



Q 

If whole milk is used in place of fat-free milk, add to the quotient in 
(1) the amount of fat contributed by the whole milk, M^ standing for 
number of ounces used; i. e., 

M1X4. 
(4) Fat percentage in milk = — pr — 

Example: A 20-ounce mixture consists of 7 ounces of 10 per cent, 
cream, 2 ounces of fat-free milk, 1 ounce of lime-water, 10 ounces of 
boiled water, 2M measures of sugar. 

7X10 
Solution: Fat percentage = — xr: — =3.50%. 

Proteid " =l:M^tl)=l.57%. 

Sugar « ^ 4.75(7+2^40X214 ,,,3^^, 

The fat percentage of cream must be calculated by reference to the 
cream table, page 426. 

Infant Food — Modified Milk Formula 

6 ounces cream. 4 ounces lime water. 

7 teaspoons sugar of milk. 18 ounces filtered or boiled 
1% teaspoons Gum Gluten Flour. water. 

Thin gluten with a little cold water then add to the boiled water 
and let boil 15 minutes. When cool add to the other ingredients. 
This formula is for 4 full sized bottles or enough for ten feedings, 
infant being fed every two hours through the 24. As child grows 
older, reduce the amount of cream replacing the same with milk. 



INFANT FEEDING 431 

rOEMTJIAE FOR PREPARING INFANT FOOD FROM PURE STER- 
ILIZES SUGAR OF UILE 

Fresh, Pure Milk, 1 ounce. 

(about 2 tablespoonfuls ) 
Fresh Cream, 1% ounces. 

(about 3 tablespoonfuls) 
Sugar of Milk, 3% drachms. 

(4 even teaspoonfuls) 
Bicarbonate of Sodium, 1 grain. 

(or use fresh limewater, 2 teaspoonfuls) 
Water, 5 ounces. 

(11/4 gills) 

Mix enough for one day's use, and sterilize. Be sure feeding bot- 
tles, nipples, etc., are kept perfectly clean. 

SCHEME FOR FEEDING BABIES 

Society of the lying-In Hospital, New York City i 

First Day. — Give from nursing bottles 30 C.C. (1 ounce) of 6 per 

cent, sugar water every 3 hours, from 6:45 P. M. to 9:45 p. m., 

inclusive, and if necessary one bottle at 3:45 A. M. 
Second Day. — 30 to 45 C.C. (1 ounce to 1% ounce) of Formula No I 

in nursing bottle, every 2 hours from 6:45 A. M. to 10:45 p. m., 

and 3:45 A. M. — ten feedings. 
Third Day. — Same as second day. 
Fourth Day. — If there is milk in mother's breast, nurse every 2 

hours as on second day. If there is no milk in mother's 

breast, 30 to 45 C.C. (1 ounce to 1% ounce) of Formula No. 

II every 2 hours, as on second day. 
Fifth and Sixth Day. — For breast fed babies ten feedings as in second 

day. For bottle fed babies same as fourth day. 
Seventh to Fourteenth Days. — For breast fed babies ten feedings. 

For bottle fed babies 30 to 75 C.C. (1 ounce to 2% ounces) of 

Formula No. Ill for ten feedings. 

Formulae 

Sugar Solution 6 per cent.: 

Take 30 grams (1 ounce) sugar of milk and dissolve in 500 C.C. 
(1 pint) boiled water. 

Formula No. I 
Fat, 0.5 per cent.; sugar, 6 per cent.; proteid, 0.5 per cent.: 
Take 6 per cent, sugar solution, 7 parts. 
»Diet used at the Society of the Lying-in Hospital, New York City. 



433 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

Plain milk 1 part, 60 C.C. (2 ounces) lime water for every 500 
C.C. (1 pint) of food mixture. 

Formula No. II 
Fat, 1 per cent.; sugar, 6 per cent.; proteid, 0.5 per cent.: 

Take 6 per cent, sugar solution, 7 parts; 12 per cent, cream 14 
part; milk % part. 

60 C.C. (2 ounces) limewater for every 500 CO. (1 pint) of food 
mixture. 

FOKMUXA No. Ill 
Fat, 1.5 per cent.; sugar 6 per cent.; proteid 0.5 per cent.: 

Take 6 per cent, sugar solution, 7 parts; 12 per cent, cream 1 
part. 60 C.C. (2 ounces) limewater for every 500 C.C. (1 pint) of 
food mixture. 

Formula No. IV 
Fat, 2 per cent.; sugar 6 per cent.; proteid 0.6 per cent.: 

Take 6 per cent, sugar solution, 5 parts; 12 per cent, cream 1 
part. 

60 C.C. (2 ounces) limewater for every 500 C.C. (1 pint) of food 
mixture. 

Formula No. V 
Fat, 2.5 per cent.; sugar 6 per cent.; proteid 0.8 per cent.. 

Take 6 per cent, sugar solution, 4 parts; 12 per cent, cream 1 
part. 

60 C.C. (2 ounces) limewater for every 500 C.C. (1 pint) of food 
mixture. 

Notes 

1. For every 500 C.C. (1 pint) of food mixture add 60 C.C. (2 
ounces) of lime water. 

2. 12 per cent, cream is the top fifth of a bottle of milk after stand- 
ing about 5 hours. 

3. It is the top 200 C.C. (7 ounces) of 1,000 C.C. (1 quart) of 
milk after standing about 5 hours. 

4. If the milk is of rich quality the top 240 C.C. (8 ounces) can 
be taken. 

5. Up to two weeks the amount of each feeding is 30 C.C. (1 
ounce) to 75 C.C. (2% ounces) according to weight, digestion and 
capacity. 

From two to five weeks the amount of each feeding is 60 C.C. (2 
ounces) to 100 C.C. (3% ounces). 

Number of daily feedings 10. From 6:45 a.m. to 10:45 P.M. 
From 10:45 P.m. to 6:45 a.m., one feeding should suffice. 



INFANT FEEDING 433 

PEPTOGENIC MILK POWDER MODIFIES COW'S MILK 

by a physiological process, makes the casein of cows' milk sol- 
uble and digestible like the proteins of mothers' milk, and 
gives a food for infants which behaves in the stomach like the 
food that Nature provides under favorable conditions. 

Directions for Using Peptogenio Milk Powder 
Formula 'No. 1 — For Infants of First Few Weeks 
Milk, 6% ozs. (% cup). Cream, 1 oz. (or "top" milk, 2 

Water, 16 ozs. (2 cups). ozs.). 

Peptogenic Milk Powder, 1% 
measure. 
The bottle cap is the measure 

Place the Peptogenic Milk Powder into a clean saucepan, add the 
pure cold water, mix perfectly; add the fresh cold milk and cream; 
mix well and heat with constant stirring until " lukewarm " ( 95 to 
100° F.), not too hot to he agreeably borne by the mouth; keep at 
about lukewarm for 8 minutes, then bring quickly just to boiling 
point in the open saucepan, or " pasteurise " by heating to only 160- 
165° F.; pour at once into a clean bottle, cork tightly, shake thor- 
oughly and put on ice or in a very cold place. 

When a feeding is required, pour out the portion and warm to 
proper temperature for nursing; always shake the bottle well before 
and after pouring out a feeding. 

Formula- No. 2 — - For Infants From 1 <o 6 Months 
Milk, 8 ozs. (1 cup) Cream, 1-1%0Z3. (3 tablespoonfuls). 

Water, 16 ozs. (2 cups) Peptogenic Milk Powder, 1-1% measure. 
Heat this milk mixture to about lukewarm (95-100° F.) and keep 
at this temperature for 5 minutes, then bring quickly just to boiling 
point, or " pasteurize " by heating to only 160-165° F. 

Formula No. 3 — For Infants From 6 Months to 1 Tear 
Milk, 16 ozs. (2 cups) Cream, 2 ozs. (4 tablespoonfuls). 

Water, 16 ozs. Peptogenic Milk Powder, 2 measures. 

Prepare this milk mixture precisely as in Formula No. 2. 



CHAPTEE XXII 
THE FEEDING OF YOUNG CHILDEEN 

Whether the child be fed at the breast or with the bottle, the 
period from the tenth to the fifteenth month is usually one 
of transition. For the breast-fed baby it is often more critical 
than for the artificially fed, as the former has now to become 
accustomed to cow's milk and to a different method of feeding 
at the same time, unless it has been on mixed feeding or has 
learned to take water from a bottle. By the ninth month, 
bottle-fed infants may have cereals added to the milk in the 
form of thoroughly cooked gruel. By the beginning of the 
first year, there may be added to the diet strained cereals in 
the form of jelly, stale bread, zwieback or toast, soft-cooked 
egg (especially the yolk), and thin cream. Throughout the 
growing period, every child should get at least one quart of 
milk a day. Milk supplies the elements of growth liberally 
and in readily available forms. Orange juice or prune pulp 
should be given daily. By the twentieth month, systematic 
training in chewing should begin. In the latter part of the 
second year, well-cooked, strained or finely-mashed, easily- 
digested vegetables are added to the diet, and any mild fruit, 
cooked (or fresh if in perfect condition) and free from in- 
digestible residues, may be given in moderate quantities. If 
a distaste for milk arises, the variety of other foods should 
be cut down and every effort made to lead the child back to 
it. Too much other food, especially if highly flavored, is fre- 
quently the cause of this dislike. 

Meat is undesirable for young children, and should not be 
given before the fourth year, and preferably not till the eighth 
or ninth year, as sufiicient protein is obtainable from milk and 
eggs. Sweet fruits, as prunes and dates, are preferable to 

434 



THE FEEDING OF YOUNG CHILDREN 435 

pure sugar, as they contain valuable ash constituents and are 
less likely to destroy the taste for other proper food. 

Tea, coffee, beer, and even cocoa except occasionally and 
very weak, should be prohibited. The child should no more 
expect to eat the same food as an adult than to dress like one. 
But his diet should be limited in quality rather than quantity, 
as he requires much more in proportion than an adult on 
account of his requirements for grovrth and his great activity. 
Up to five years of age, about eighty calories per kilogram 
seems to be desirable. 

A well-known dispensary sends out printed instructions for 
the people of its neighborhood, prohibiting all eating between 
meals, and forbidding all pastry, coffee, tea, alcoholics and 
carbonated drinks, in the case of children of any age. 

Those under seven years of age are allowed no preserved 
meats or fish, no hot bread, griddle cake, or nuts, no corn, 
cucumbers or egg plant. 

For those under four years no stews, tomatoes, bananas, or 
any fruit in hot weather. 

Children up to the age of eighteen months are to be limited 
entirely to milk, meat broths, orange juice and cooked and 
strained cereals; with, in exceptional cases, zwieback, biscuit 
and soft-cooked eggs. 

Such education means much for the development of hardy 
men and women. Undernutrition is not due alone to pov- 
erty; much of it comes from ignorance. 

GENERAL RTJIES FOB FEEDING YOUNG CHILDREN 
Thompson i 

1. Allow time for meals. 

2. See that the food is thoroughly masticated. 

3. Do not allow nibbling between meals. 

4. Do not tempt the child with the sight of rich and in- 
digestible food. 

5. Do' not force the child to eat against its will, but exam- 

' W. Gilman Thompson, M.D. : " Practical Dietetics. " New York. D. 
Appleton & Co. 



43G DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

ine the mouth, which may be sore from erupting teeth; and 
examine the food, which may not be properly cooked or 
flavored. If good food is refused from peevishness merely, 
remove it and do not offer it again before the next time. 
6. In acute illness reduce and dilute the food at once. 

Talile of Comparisons, rood Kequired by Child and Han 

A child under 2 requires 0.3 the food of a man doing moderate 
work. 

A child of 3 to 5 requires 0.4 the food of a man doing moderate 
work. 

A child of 6 to 9 requires 0.5 the food of a man doing moderate 
work. 

A child of 10 to 13 requires 0.6 the food of a man doing mod- 
erate work. 

A girl of 14 to 16 requires 0.7 the food of a man doing mod- 
erate work. 

A boy of 14 to 16 requires 0.8 the food of a man doing moderate 
work. 

Prop. W. 0. Atwatbb. 

Table showing Increase of Calories required for a Growing Child 









Carbo- 




Age. 


Pkoteid. 


Fat. 


HTDKATES. 


Calories. 


years. 


grammes. 


grammes. 


grammes. 




1% 


42.5 


35.0 


100 


909.7 


2 


45.5 


36.0 


110 


972.4 


3 


50.0 


38.0 


120 


1050.4 


4 


53.0 


41.5 


135 


1156.8 


5 


56.0 


43.0 


145 


1224.0 


8 to 9 


60.0 


44.0 


150 


1270.0 


12 to 13 


72.0 


47.0 


245 


1736.8 


14 to 15 


79.0 


48.0 


270 


1877.3 



Hutchison, p. 453. Schboedeb, Archiv. filr Hygiene, iv. 39, 1886. 

DIETARIES FOR YOUNG CHILDREN 
Starr i 

Diet from the twelfth to the eighteenth month: 

7 A. M., stale bread soaked in a breakfast cup of new milk. 
10 A. M., milk, six ounces, and soda biscuit, or a thin slice of but- 
tered bread. 

^ Louis Starr, M.D.: "Hygiene of the Nursery," Philadelphia. Blak- 
iston. 



THE FEEDING OF YOUNG CHILDREN 437 

2 P.M., beef tea, six ounces, bread, and a tablespoonful of rice 
and milk pudding. 

6 P. M., same as first meal. 

10 p. M., a tablespoonful of Mellins' Food in eight ounces of milk. 
In alternation, a lightly boiled egg with bread crumbs and six 

ounces of milk may be given at 7 A. M., and at 2 p. m. a mashed 
baked potato, moistened with four tablespooufuls of beef tea, two 
tablespoonfuls of junket. 

Diet from the eighteenth to the thirtieth month: 

7 A. M., new milk, eight ounces; the yolk of an egg lightly boiled; 
two thin slices of bread and butter, or else milk, and two table- 
spoonfuls of well-cooked oatmeal or wheaten grits, with sugar and 
cream. 

11 A. M., milk, six ounces, with a soda biscuit or bread and butter. 
2 P.M., one tablespoonful of rare mutton pounded to a paste, 

bread and butter, or mashed potatoes moistened with good dish 
gravy, a saucer of junket; or else a breakfast cupful of beef tea or 
mutton or chicken broth, a thin slice of stale bread, a saucer of rice 
and milk pudding. 

6:30 P.M., a breakfast cupful of milk with bread and butter, or 
soft milk toast. 

Diet from two and a half to three and a half years of age; children 
who ha/ce cut their milk teeth: 

7 A. M., one or two tumblers of milk, a saucer of thoroughly cooked 
oatmeal or wheaten grits, a slice of bread and butter. 

11 A. M. (if hungry), a tumbler of milk or a teacupful of beef tea 
with a biscuit. 

2 P. M., a slice of underdone roast beef or mutton, or a bit of roast 
chicken or turkey, minced as fine as possible, a mashed baked potato 
moistened with dish gravy, a slice of bread and butter, a saucer of 
junket or rice and milk pudding. 

7 P. M., a tumbler of milk and a slice or two of soft milk toast. 

Diet from three and a half years up: 

Breakfast. — Every day : milk, porridge and cream, bread and 
butter. 
One dish only each day: Fresh fish, eggs lightly boiled, 
poached, eggs scrambled, eggs (plain omelet), chicken hash, 
stewed kidney, stewed liver. 
Sound fruit may be allowed before and after the meal, accord- 
ing to taste, as oranges without pulp, grapes (seeds not to be 
swallowed), peaches, thoroughly ripe pears, and cantaloupes. 
Dinner. — Every day : Clear soup, meat roasted or broiled and 
cut into small pieces, bread and butter. 



438 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

Two dishes each day: Potatoes baked, potatoes mashed, 
spinach, stewed celery, cauliflower, hominy, macaroni ( plain ) , 
peas, string beans (young), green corn (grated). 

Junket, rice and milk or other light puddings, and occasionally 
ice cream, may be allowed for dessert. 
Supper. — Every day : Milk, with toast or bread and butter, 
stewed fruit. 

From the third to the fifth year the child has twenty teeth, 
and often three meals a day suffice, although from the third to 
the fourth year four may be given. After three years of age 
it is not possible to lay down definite rules for the quantity 
of food allowed. In health the appetite may be taken as a 
fair guide, and the child will not eat too much if taught to 
eat very slowly, and thoroughly chew each mouthful. 

When the second set of teeth begin to replace the deciduous 
or milk teeth, which gradually decay, digestion is sometimes 
interfered with temporarily, from lack of ability to masticate 
thoroughly, and food should be subdivided before it is offered 
to the child. 

GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF FEEDING SICK CHILDREN 

Since this work has been chiefly devoted, as the title im- 
plies, to the relationship between diet and disease, the amount 
of space given to the feeding of presumably normal children 
may occasion some wonderment. But the chief difference be- 
tween the dietetics of the infant and adult lies in the fact that 
the bottle infant and the weanling, nominally healthy, have 
to be dieted to prevent disease. This has now come to be 
realized on all sides. In classic and mediasval times an infant 
which could not get breast milk usually perished. The wean- 
ing period was somewhat less trying, but millions of children 
must have succumbed to the ordeal of changing to solid food. 
Improvement in feeding means a direct lessening of infant 
mortality, as modern statistics testify. 

Colic and Vomiting (Eegurgitation) are almost physiolog- 
ical, so common is their occurrence; they do not arise from 
any single cause, and the fact that breast-fed infants suffer 
almost as frequently as the bottle-fed, often more so, shows 



THE FEEDING OF YOUNG CHILDREN 439 

that such ailments are not entirely preventable by care in feed- 
ing. In breast-fed children, these symptoms are best con- 
trolled by lengthening the period between feedings. In bottle- 
fed children, besides lengthening the nursing interval, special 
pains should be taken in the modification of the milk. These 
symptoms may occur quite independently of diet. Chilling 
of the body surface, coughing, improper handling, a too snug 
binder, etc., may be the true cause of the trouble. Even in 
breast-fed infants under ideal conditions, the mother's milk 
may not be well-bome. It may in fact be so rich in fat and 
protein as to require dilution; which of course in the breast- 
fed may be accomplished only by giving the infant water be- 
fore or after nursing. 

Gavage. Of late years the use of the stomach sound in 
feeding sick nurslings has come into considerable vogue in 
foundling asylums and the like. This resource has a con- 
siderable range of application. Thus in premature infants 
(which do not nurse readily) ; in all infants which refuse to 
nurse ; and in infants sick from any cause, especially when the 
nerve centers, swallowing or breathing apparatus are involved, 
or when continuous vomiting is present, the use of the stom- 
ach tube may save life. Very young babies are fed much 
more readily than older ones, since they are less liable to 
fright. The tube used is a soft rubber catheter, which is 
coupled with a small funnel. The catheter is first passed 
down the gullet. In order to have plenty of leeway, it is an 
advantage to unite the catheter to a second rubber tube with 
a piece of glass tubing. The second rubber tube is then 
coupled to the funnel. If the case be one of vomiting, it is 
often necessary to wash out the stomach before the introduc- 
tion of nourishment, however given. The term lavage, used 
for washing out the stomach, must not be confounded with 
gavage, which means literally forced feeding. Complete de- 
tails will be found in works on obstetrics and obstetric nurs- 
ing. Edgar says of gavage, that the infant to be fed should 
lie on its back in the nurse's arms, its own arms held to its 
sides, while an extra assistant steadies the head. The tube 



440 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

having been passed, the modified milk or other nutriment is 
poured into the funnel, and as the latter empties itself the 
tube is pinched to prevent escape. While regurgitation may 
occur and necessitate a repetition of the act, it very often 
happens that food taken in this manner is much better re- 
tained than if taken by nursing the breast or bottle. The 
exertion required by nursing, the swallovring of air, etc., are 
avoided in gavage. To recapitulate, the conditions in which 
gavage has been found life saving, are given by Edgar in the 
following order: 

Prematurity (especially in incubator babies) ; after opera- 
tions on the nose and throat; habitual vomiting; pneumonia, 
diphtheria and scarlet fever. The jaws of the nursling can 
usually be separated to receive the gavage-tube. But if there 
is inflammation of the mouth or locking of the jaws (or if 
intubation has been required for diphtheritic cases) it may be 
necessary to resort to nasal feeding (see p. 79). 

Diarrhoea. Under this familiar term, which includes the 
mildest looseness of the bowels as well as the severest symp- 
toms of cholera and dysentery, may be included the greater 
part of the morbidity of the nursling. Death certificates of 
babies, especially in summer months, chiefly specify this cause. 
The diarrhoea makes itself felt in a variety of ways. If con- 
joined with vomiting we may term it a gastro-enteritis, and 
state that a given child died from inability to profit by its 
nourishment. But many infants succumb, not because their 
nourishment is rejected outright, but rather from the fact that 
it is not utilized. We can understand death when due to vio- 
lent vomiting and diarrhoea; but the slow death from non- 
utilization of food, such as occurs so extensively in bottle-fed 
tenement house children, still remains largely a mystery, which 
has been explained in the most diverse ways. The amount 
and character of gastro-intestinal disturbance present is not 
sufiBcient, in many cases at least, to explain the total failure 
of nutrition. It is in the effort to combat this condition that 
so many methods of feeding have come into use. As in all 
stubborn and imperfectly understood conditions, with a bad 



THE FEEDING OF YOUNG CHILDREN 441 

outlook for recovery, maay substances have been tested, and 
many recoveries have been recorded. If a threatening diar- 
rhoea appears, with or without vomiting, the best course to 
pursue at first seems to be fasting. Sterile water may be al- 
lowed but milk is prohibited. It is believed by some 
authorities that cow's milk or the milk of any animal is poi- 
sonous in these cases. Others would state that milk is danger- 
ous because of one or another solid ingredient, or because it 
furnishes a culture medium for germs. In any case some pre- 
digested food like panopepton, or some cereal decoction like 
rice or barley water seems better borne. It may also be ad- 
visable at this stage to use certain drugs to control vomiting. 
When the latter has ceased for twenty-four hours, normal feed- 
ing may be cautiously resumed. The treatment of these cases 
taxes the utmost resources of the physician, and the mortality 
is enormous. The nurse's duties lie rather in the direction 
of prevention; but if these cases develop, rest of the stomach 
is imperative at first and milk must not be resumed until all 
symptoms are passed. Diarrhoea, dysentery and all gastro- 
intestinal troubles in older children are dieted on the same 
principles as are the same affections in adults. 

Constipation in nurslings is a condition difficult to over- 
come entirely by diet. The familiar remedies are sugar and 
cream, an excess of either of which, over dietetic requirements, 
may loosen the bowels. A prescription of laboratory milk 
may meet this obstacle, or the corresponding home modifica- 
tion. Fruit juices, oatmeal gruel, etc., are sometimes em- 
ployed. 

Marasmus and Rickets are two conditions generally in- 
cluded under diseases amenable to diet. Infantile Scurvy 
should be named in the same connection. There is no special 
regimen, however, for such affections. A full normal diet 
cannot be improved on. 



CHAPTER XXIII 
THE ADOLESCENT — THE SEDENTARY — THE AGED 

DIET FOR THE ADOLESCENT 

The growing youth needs extra protein food for the build- 
ing of protoplasm and a sufficiency of salts for the rapidly- 
forming tissues; earthy salts for bones, iron for blood, phos- 
phorus for nervous tissue and its general influence on growth, 
obtained from the average liberal mixed diet with milk, eggs, 
fresh fruit and green vegetables, so that no special plan of 
feeding is required. If the adolescent lead a very active ex- 
istence, equivalent to hard labor in an adult, he will naturally 
require the same amount of food with necessary reduction for 
weight, and some allowance for extra protein. Many ado- 
lescents, however, are very sluggish and lead inactive lives, and 
need encouragement to activity, with food in proportion to 
its degree. Again the appetite is not always a safe guide, 
especially for girls; for the period of adolescence coincides 
with the development of " hysterical " tendencies which may 
be manifested by excessive or diminished craving for food 
without any reference to the actual physical demands. An 
active adolescent may have but little appetite while a slug- 
gish one may be a glutton, or may continually drink water. 
The perverted cravings for substances of no nutritive value 
and without appetizing quality, which accompany this period, 
are well known. It is therefore necessary that the diet of this 
period be as carefully supervised as that for the little child. 
The food must conform to the subject's physical requirements, 
and must be administered with discretion, for a large percent- 
age of food aversions are acquired at this time, and it is es- 
sential to the well-being of the individual, and the comfort 
of others, that his eating habits be normal. 

443 



THE SEDENTARY 443 

DIET FOR THE SEDENTARY 

^"0 exact rules can be laid down for the dietetics of the 
sedentary. An individual may lead a technically sedentary 
life, and yet use up a great amount of energy, only standing 
and walking muscles being in disuse just as in a person whose 
occupation requires standing and walking, little use may be 
made of arm, shoulder and trunk muscles. A better distinc- 
tion is between out-door and in-door life, or quiet and active 
existence. True sedentary persons lead both a quiescent and 
an in-door existence, chiefly in the sitting posture. The less 
the exertion, the less the requirement for food. Excess of 
food over actual demands is usually manifested by the putting 
on of flesh or by the development of indigestion or metabolic 
disturbances. In theory there should be no such thing as a 
permissible diet for the sedentary, because no one should 
allow himself to lead a purely quiescent existence. It is pos- 
sible to compress a good deal of active Exercise in a couple 
of hours of the twenty-four, so that the sedentary person passes 
virtually into the next class above, corresponding to light 
active labor extending through a number of hours. 

While individual estimates vary, it is probable that 1600- 
2000 calories suffice for the average individual on the usual 
basis of 145 pounds weight with the usual reduction for sex. 
As the sedentary person finds it difficult to digest heavy arti- 
cles of food, the food should be easily digestible. Fruit and 
succulent vegetables (salads) are usually well borne by seden- 
tary people, as they induce daily evacuations of the bowels, 
and are not fattening. They are the reverse of condensed 
and highly nutritious foods. 

DIET EOR THE AGED 

As there is a radical distinction between a person merely 
old in years and one who is actually senile, no dietary can 
be devised to suit the ease of all those of advanced years. A 
man is technically old at sixty. In theory he should require 
less protein in proportion to carbohydrates than a younger 
man. Many people of both sexes, however, preserve their 



444 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

working capacity far into the sixties and even into the seven- 
ties. Many people can put on flesh up to the age of sixty, 
and it is very important that they do not do so. Their regi- 
men should be practically that of the corpulent. After the 
age of sixty the weight may remain at an equilibrium for some 
years, or with the advent of senile change, the flesh may be- 
gin to disappear, this loss being physiological. At this period 
less depends on the selection of food than on the quantity 
and thoroughness of mastication. An active, healthy man 
can preserve his condition by cutting down the amount of 
food greatly, and chewing it thoroughly. The demand for 
protein will very likely be satisfied with a small quantity. 
The total fuel requirement will depend upon whether the in- 
dividual exercises or leads a sedentary life. Sedentary elderly 
people can subsist on very little food, and do not differ much 
in this respect from middle-aged sedentary people. 

A senile person is practically an invalid, and his dietetic 
demands do not differ greatly from those of other invalids 
(aside from the convalescent). If the teeth are more or less 
useless, and mastication cannot be effected by the gums, the 
individual becomes a confirmed dyspeptic. The problem of 
starch digestion becomes a serious one. Milk can be used 
largely. 

In theory sugars could partially replace starches. An ex- 
cellent food under the circumstances is toasted bread, which 
may be dipped in coffee to soften it. In toast the starch be- 
comes changed to dextrin, which is but one step removed from 
sugar. Well-cooked cereals, vegetables (potatoes, greens, etc.) 
and fruits may be used in small quantities in the expectation 
that they will be digested by the pancreatic juice. 

Special Eegimen : As already suggested, this cannot differ 
in kind from that of the confined invalid or dyspeptic. 

DIETi: Soup. — Nutritious soups, such as chicken or fish purfe, 
beef tea, mutton or chicken broth. Purges of all kinds. 

Fish. — White fish as sole, whiting, smelts, flounders, etc. (best 
when boiled). 

^Food suitable for the Aged According to Yeo. 



THE AGED 445 

Eggs. — Egg lightly cooked, or beaten up with milk, etc. 

M^ats. — Young and tender chicken and game. Other tender 
meats. Potted chicken, game and other potted meats. Sweetbreads, 
bacon grilled. 

Farinaceous. — Bread and butter (bread at least a day old) to be 
soaked in tea or milk or water. Bread and milk, porridge and oat- 
meal gruel. Puddings of ground rice, tapioca, arrowroot, sago, maca- 
roni. Prepared foods consisting of predigested starches. 

Vegetahles. — Potatoes, carrots, spinach and other succulent veg- 
etables, stewed celery, boiled onions. 

Desserts. — Fruit jellies, stewed or baked fruit. Pulp of perfectly 
ripe raw fruit in small quantity, farinaceous puddings. 

Liquids. — Milk in all forms, and with the addition of warm Vichy 
or warm water, fruit juice. 



RUMFORD 

"THE WHOLESOME" 

Baking Powder 

BEST of the HIGH GRADE Powders. 



Pure and Wholesome. Rumford is different from and 
superior to all other powders, it being made of the genuine 
Professor Horsford's phosphate, thus supplying the food with 
an element, the strength-giving phosphates, absolutely neces- 
sary to health. Fine wheat flour is of little value as a strength- 
ening food because it is deprived of its phosphates in bolting. 
Rumford Baking Powder supplies these phosphates. 

Perfect SaUing Quality. Its action in the dough is 
thorough, making cake, biscuit, muffins, etc., of the finest 
texture, which will retain their fresh condition longer than 
when made with ordinary baking powder or cream tartar. 

No "Bahing Powder" taste. Rumford contains no 
alum or cream tartar and gives no bitter or " baking powder " 
taste to the food. Biscuit, etc., made with it retain the 
natural flavor of the grain and it will not impair the most 
deUcate flavoring used in cake, etc. 

Every Can Warranted. Rumford will retain its 
strength indefinitely and we guarantee every can to give 
satisfaction or money refunded. 

Seasonable Price. Recent improvements enable us 
to sell Rumford at a reasonable price, much less than the 
ordinary high-priced powders. 

RUMFORD CHEMICAL WORKS 

Main Offices, Providence, R. I. 



446 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



^ PAGE 

Acid Beverages . no 

Acid Phosphate . . .113 

Acid Phosphate Whey . 113 

Apple Water . . .115 

Apollinaris Lemonade . . Ill 

Bran Lemonade . .111 

Cream of Tartar Drink . 114 

Currant Water . . .115 

Effervescent Lemonade . Ill 

Egg Lemonade . . 121 

Fruit Lemonade . Ill 

Fruit Punch . .117 

Fruitade . . .112 

Grape Juice . 116 

Lemonade . 112 

Lithia . . . 116 

Nectar . . 116 

Water . . 115 

Irish Moss Lemonade . 112 

Jelly and lee . . . .114 

Lemonade . . . .111 

Lemon Whey ... 113 
Malted Milk Currant Jelly 114 

Malted Milk with Wine . 114 

Orangeade 112 

Orangeade No. II . .112 

Pineapple Juice . . .113 

Pineapple Lemonade . Ill 

Ehubarb Water . . .115 
Soda or Apollinaris Lem- 
onade . . ... Ill 

Tamarind Malted Milk . 116 

Tamarind Water . . 115 

Tea Punch . . . .116 

Tutti Frutti Punch . 117 

Wine Whey . . . 113 
Acid Phosphate (Hors- 

ford's) 478 

Acid Phosphate . .113 

Acid Phosphate Whey . 113 



PAGE 

Albuminous Beverages . 118 
Albumin Water . . .122 
Albuminized Clam Water 123 
Grape Juice 123 



Milk 
Orange 
Sherry 
Water 

Beef Egg-nog . 

Coffee Egg-nog 

Egg Broth . 
" Lemonade . 

Egg-nog .... 

Egg-nog No. 11 

Egg and Brandy . 
" and Rum . 
" and Wine' . 

Grape Yolk 

" Juice and Egg 

Junket Egg-nog 

Malted Milk and Egg 

Mulled Wine . . 

Pineapple Egg-nog 

Stokes' Mixture 
Albuminous Jellies 

Beef Jelly . . . 

Calf's Foot Jelly . 

Chicken Broth Jelly 

Panopepton Jelly 



122 
123 
123 
122 
120 
120 
118 
121 
119 
119 
120 
120 
120 
121 
122 
119 
121 
122 
120 
121 
221 
222 
221 
222 
208 
Jelly with Orange 209 



Peptonoids Coffee Jelly 
Wine Jelly 
Apples 

Apple Cuban Style 
" Custard 
" and Prunes 
" Tapioca . . 
Water . . 
Baked Apples . 
Stewed Apples . 



207 
205 

280 
288 
280 
300 
115 
279 
279 



Apricot and Prune Sauce 280 



447 



448 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



PAGE 

Arrowroot Gbuel . . . 238 

Asparagus on Toast . . 268 

" Soup . . 223-224 

Boiled Asparagus . . . 267 

Creamed Asparagus . . 268 

B. 

Bacon, Broiled .... 151 

Curled Bacon .... 151 

Baked Custards 

Baked or Cup Custard . 288 

" Caramel Custard . 290 

" Custard No. II . 289 

Chocolate Custard . . 289 

Malted Milk Custard . 290 

White Custard . . 289 

Baking Powdee (Rumford) 



446 
280 

288 



Bananas Baked 
Banana Custard 
Baele? 

Barley Gruel . . 238 

" Gruel with Broth 238 
" Gruel or Jelly 238 



Water . 




124 


Water (for 


In- 




fants) 




125 


Bavarian Cream 




210 


Beef 






Beef Broth .... 




219 


" Egg-nog . . . 




120 


" Jelly .... 




222 


" Sandwiches 




260 


Broiled Beef Steak . 




149 


Maltre IVHatel Butter 




149 


Pan Broiled Beefsteak 




Cakes 




149 


Roast Beef .... 




152 



Scraped Beef . . . .217 
Beef Preparations . . 212 

Beef Essence . . . .215 
" Juice ... .214 

" Juice (for Infants) 215 
"Tea .... 215 
" Tea Frozen . . .216 
" Tea with Hydro- 
chloric Acid .... 216 



Dry Peptonoids Soluble 492 
liquid Peptonoids . 215 

Panopepton 216 

Raw Beef Sandwiches . 217 
Scraped Beef . . . .217 

Beet Greens 269 

Beverages 

Acid Beverages . . .110 
Albuminous Beverages . 118 
Miscellaneous Beverages . 127 
Starchy Beverages . . . 124 
Birds (Note Poultry) . 152 
Biscuit 

Baking Powder Biscuit . 253 

Bran Biscuit . . . 253 

" Muffins . . . .254 

Cornmeal Gems . . . 254 

Gum Gluten Biscuit . . 252 

" " Drop Biscuit 253 

" Muffins . . 253 

Pop Overs . . . . 254 

White Gems . . . .254 

Blanc Mange .... 295 

Chocolate Blanc Mange . 301 

Boiled Frosting .... 320 

Bouillon, Clam .... 174 

Clam Bouillon Bisque . 175 

Bran Tea . . . . 137 

Bran Lemonade . . .111 

Brandy and Milk . . .197 

Bread 247 

Baking Powder Biscuit . 253 

Boston Brown Bread . . 252 

Bran Bread . . . .252 

" Biscuit . . .253 

" Muffins . . .254 

Cornmeal Gems . . . 254 

Entire Wheat Bread . .251 

Gum Gluten Biscuit . . 252 

" Bread . 252 

" " Drop Biscuit 253 

" " Muffins . . 253 

Pop Overs .... 254 

White Flour Bread . . 250 

White Gems . . . .254 

Whole Wheat or Graham 

Bread 251 

Bread Crumbs Buttered . 246 
Bread Panada .... 127 



INDEX TO BECIPES 



449 



PAGE 

Beead Pudding .... 302 
Cheese Bread Pudding . 304 
Chocolate " " . 303 

Gluten Brown Betty . . 304 
Jelly Bread Pudding . . 303 
Lemon " " . . 303 

Orange " " . . 302 

Plain " " . . 302 

Bbeao Sauce foe Game . 158 
Bbeaki'ast Foods . . . 242 

Boiled Rice 297 

Cornmeal Muah . . . 242 
Gum Gluten Breakfast 
Food . . . . . .242 

Hasty Pudding . . .242 
Hominy . .... 243 

Oatmeal Mush . . . .243 

Steamed Rice . . . .298 

Beoths .... . 217 

Beef Broth 219 

Broth with Grains . .219 

Chicken Broth . . 220 

Clam Broth No. I . . . 220 

" Broth No. II . 220 

Egg Broth (Milk) . .118 

" Broth (Hot Water) 221 

" Broth (Beef Broth) 221 

Mutton Broth ... 219 

Veal Broth 220 

BuTTEB Baixs .... 255 
Butter Ceeam .... 165 
Buttermilk (Aetificiai,) . 199 
Buttered Crumbs . . . 246 



0. 

Cake 317 

Boiled Frosting . . .320 
Cold Water Sponge Cake . 318 
Ginger Bread . . .320 

Gum Gluten Nut Cake .319 
Hot Water Sponge Cake . 319 
Marguerite Wafers . . 320 

Plain Cake 319 

Sponge Cake . . . .318 

Carrots 268 

Boiled ... .268 
Creamed 268 



PAGE 

Caudle 241 

Caulifloweb 268 

Boiled 268 

Creamed 268 

Celeet 268 

Boiled 268 

Creamed 268 

Soup 224 

" (Diabetic) . . .225 

Toast 257 

Ceeeals . . 233 

Breakfast Food . . 242 

Gruels . .... 238 

Starchy Gruels . . 244 

Chaelottb, Oeange . . .211 

Cheese 

Cheese Bread Pudding . 304 

Wafers . . . .276 

Gluten Biscuit Crisps . . 276 

Gluten Cheese Wafers . .261 

Sandwiches 259 

Chicken 

Broiled Chicken . . 156 

Chicken Broth . . . .220 

Broth Jelly 222 

Salad . . 274 

Creamed Chicken . . .157 

Jellied " ... 157 

Roast " ... 154 

Gravy . .... 155 

Stuffing . . . .154 

Trussing 154 

Scalloped Chicken . . 157 
To clean Chicken . . . 153 
Chocolate ( Walter Bak- 
er's) 477 

Chocolate Blanc Mange . 301 

Bread Pudding 303 

" Custard . . 289 

" Ice Cream . . 308 

Milk Shake . 135 

" Sauce for Ice 

Cream . 311 

Chocolate Syrup . . . 136 

Vienna Style 135 

Plain Chocolate 134 

" Chocolate (Ind.) . 135 

Chops 

Chop Broiled in Paper . 151 



450 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



French Chops . 
Lamb Chops Broiled 
Mutton Chops " 
Pan Broiled Chops 

Cinnamon Wateb . 
Milk . . 

Clams .... 



PAGE 

150 
150 
150 
150 
136 
197 
172 

Albuminized Clam Water 123 

Clam Bouillon . . . 174 

" Bouillon Bisque 175 

" Broth ... 173 

" Broth No. II . . 220 

" Broth on Toast . . 258 

" Frappe . . 315 

" Sherbet . . . .312 

" Soup . 174 

" Stew . . .174 

" Water . . 173 

" Water No. II . 173 

Little Neck Clams . 172 

Steamed Clams . . . 172 

Cocoa (Walter Baker's) 477 

Breakfast Cocoa . . . 133 

Cocoa (Ind) .134 

Cocoa Junket . . 294 

Malted Milk Cocoa . . 134 

Codfish 

Creamed Codfish . 163 
Codfish (Dia- 
betic) 164 

Coffee 

Boiled Coffee 

) 



II 



Coffee (Ind 
Cereal Coffee 
Coffee Egg-nog . 
" Ice Cream 
" Jelly . . 
" Junket . 
Filtered Coffee . 

Coffee No, 
Malted Milk Coffee . . 
Perculator Coffee . 
Peptonoids Coffee Jelly . 
Condensed Milk (Eagle 

Brand) . . 479 

Consomme . . . 228 

Corn Soup . . . 224 

CoRNMEAL Gems . . . 254 

Mush . . .242 



132 
132 
133 
120 
308 
207 
294 
132 
133 
133 
131 
207 



FACE 

Cornstarch Pudding . . 295 

Cornstarch Fruit Jelly . 295 

Pudding . . 295 

Malted Milk Blanc Mange 296 

Pineapple Cream 295 

Crackers 

Bran Crackers . . . 260 
Cheese Wafers .... 276 
Cracker Crumbs (but- 
tered) ... . 246 
Cracker Gruel . 239 
Cracker Panada . . 126 
" Pudding . 304 
Crisped Crackers . . 229 
Gluten Cheese Wafers . 261 
" Crackers . . 260 
" Biscuit Crisps . 261 
Wafers . .261 
Marguerite Wafers . . 320 
Toasted Crackers . . 256 
Cranberry Jelly . . . 280 
Cranberry Sauce . . . 280 
Cream Sauce 

Cream Sauce (Fish) . . 165 
" (Macaroni) . 245 
" (Noodles) . 246 
" (Scalloped 

Dishes) 271 

Cream Sauce (Toast) . 257 

" (Vegetables) 271 

Cream of Tartar Drink . 114 

Cream (Whipped) . . 305 

Croutons ... . 230 

Crumbs (Buttered) . .246 

Crust Coffee . 126 

Cucumber Relish . . 166 

Currant Water . . .115 

Custards 

Baked Custards . . . 288 

Custard Junket . . . 294 

Custard Souffle . . . 292 

Frozen Custard . . .311 

Soft Custards .... 287 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



451 



D. 

Dandelion Greens 
Date. Bonbons 

" Tapioca 
Dessekts (Frozen) 
Ice Cream . 
Caramel Ice Cream 



Ice Cream No. II 310 



. 269 
. 282 
. 301 
. 306 
. 306 
. 310 



Chocolate Ice Cream 

Coflfee 

Frozen Custard 

Grape lee Cream . 

Hot Cocoa Sauce for 
Cream 

Junket Ice Cream 

Malted Milk Ice Cream 

Peach 

Peptonoids " 

Raspberry " 

Strawberry " 

Vanilla 
Ices .... 

Clam Frappg 

Fruit Ice . . 

Grape Frapp6 . 

Lemon Ice . 

Orange " 

" No. II 
" No. Ill 

Orange Straws . 

Pineapple Ice . 

Scalpicou of Fruit 
Sherbet . 

Clam Sherbet . 

Grape Ambrosia 

Grape Sherbet . 

Lemon Milk Sherbet 



Ice 



308 
308 
311 
309 

311 
308 
310 
309 
311 
309 
309 
307 
313 
315 
314 
315 
314 
313 
314 
314 
315 
315 
315 
312 
312 
313 
313 
312 

No. II 312 
313 
312 

No. li 312 



Malted Milk 
Strawberry 
Strawberry 
Desserts (Hot and, Cold) 286 
Bread Puddings . . 302 
Cheese Bread Pudding 

(Diabetic) . . . .304 
Chocolate Bread Pudding 303 
Gluten Brown Betty . . 304 
Jelly Bread Pudding . . 303 
Lemon " " . . 303 



Orange Bread Pudding 
Plain " 
Cornstarch or Blanc 
Mange .... 
Cornstarch Fruit Jelly 



PAGE 

302 
302 



295 
295 
295 
296 
297 
297 



Cornstarch Pudding 

Gum Gluten 

Irish Moss Blanc Mange 

" Jelly . . _„. 

Malted Milk Blanc Mange 296 
Nutritious Wheat Pudding 296 
Pineapple Cream . 295 

Cracker Pudding 304 

Walnut, Biscuit Crisps . 305 
Plain Cracker Pudding . 304 
Custards 

Baked Custards . . 288 

Baked Caramel Custard . 290 
" or Cup " . 288 

Custard No. II . 289 
Chocolate Custard . . 289 
Malted Milk " . . 290 

Peptonoids " . . 290 

White " . . 289 

Soft Custards . . 287 

. Almond Pudding . . . 288 

Apple Custard . . . 288 

Banana " . . 288 

Floating Island . . 288 

Meringue . ... 287 

Orange Custard . . 288 

Peach Custard . . . 288 

Soft Custard No. I . . 287 

" Custard No. II . 287 

" Custard (Diabetic) . 287 

Junket . . . 293 

Cocoa Junket . . 294 

Coffee " . . 294 

Custard " . . . 294 

Plain " .... 293 

Junket Ice Cream . . 308 

Pudding Sauces . . 305 

Foamy Sauce . . . 305 

Fruit " ... 306 

Hard " .... 305 

Orange " ... 210 

Whipped Cream . . 305 
Whipped Cream No. II . 306 

Rice Puddings . . 297 



453 



INDEX TO BECIPES 



PAGE 

Boiled Eice 297 

Cream of Eice Pudding . 299 

Peaches and Rice . . . 298 

Plain Eice Pudding . . 299 

Eice Meringue . . 299 

Southern Snow Balls . . 298 

Steamed Rice . . . 298 

Tapioca Puddings . . . 300 

Apple Tapioca .... 300 

Chocolate Blanc Mange 301 

Date Tapioca . . 301 

Pineapple Tapioca . . 300 

Plain " . 300 

Easpberry " 301 

Tapioca Cream . . . 300 

Whips and Souffles 291 

Custard Souffle 292 

Fruit Whip ... 291 

Grape Whip . . .291 

Lemon Souffle ... 292 

Omelet Souffle . . . .292 

Peach Meringue . . 293 

Strawberry Whip . . 291 

Deessing for Poultrt . . 154 

" " Salads . 272 

Dried Fruit Soup . . 227 

Dry Peptonoids Soluble 492 

Peptonoids Sandwiches . 260 



E. 

Eggs 175 

Albuminized Clam Water 123 
Grape Juice 123 



Milk 
Orange 
Sherry 
Water 



122 

123 
123 

122 



Albumin Water (for In- 
fants) .... 122 
Baked Custard . . .288 
Baked Eggs ... 180 
" Eggs (Diabetic) . 180 
Baked Meat Omelet . 182 
Beef Egg-nog .... 120 
Coddled Eggs (Scrambled) 183 
Coffee Egg-nog . . 120 
Egg Broth (Milk) . .118 



PAGE 

Egg Broth (Water) . . 221 

" Broth (Beef) . . 225 

" Lemonade . . . .121 

" Nests 181 

" -nog No. I . . . . 119 

" -nog No. II . . . 119 

" Sandwiches . . . 183 

" Sauce 165 

" Sauce No. II . . .166 

" and Brandy . . .120 

" " Eum . . . .120 

" Wine .... 120 

" Sherry Gruel . 241 

Filled Eggs . . . . 184 

Golden Eod Egg . .181 

Grape Juice and Egg . . 122 

Grape Yolk . . 121 

Hard Cooked Egg . . .180 

Junket Egg-nog . . .119 

Malted Milk and Egg . .121 

Marguerite Salad . . . 275 

Mulled Wine . . . .122 

Omelet (Bread) . . .182 

(Foamy) . . .181 

(Meat) . . 182 

Pineapple Egg-nog . .122 

Poached or Dropped Egg . 182 

Egg in Milk . . 182 

Shirred Egg . . .183 

Eggs No. II . . 183 

Soft Cooked Egg . . .179 

" No. II . 180 

" Custard . . . .287 

Steamed Eggs .... 180 

Stokes' Mixture . . .121 

Water Lily Salad . . .276 

Whips and Souffles . .291 



F. 

Farina Gruel . . . . 

Fish 

Baked Fish 

Baked Fish (Diabetic) . 
Broiled Fish . 
Creamed Cod Fish 

Cod Fish (Dia- 
betic) 



239 
159 
162 
164 
162 
163 

164 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



45a 



PAGE 

Creamed Fish .... 163 

" Fish (Diabetic) 164 

Fish (Diabetic) . . .164 

Halibut a la Creole . 163 

Scalloped Fish ... 163 

Fish Sauces ... 165 

Butter Cream .... 165 

Cream or White Sauce . 165 

Cream Sauce (Diabetic) . 165 

Cucumber Relish . . . 166 

Egg Sauce . . . 165 

" Sauce No. II . 166 

Hollandaise Sauce . . . 166 

Tomato Sauce ... 166 

Flaxseed Tea .... 136 

Flaxseed and Licorice TtA 136 

Floating Island .... 288 

Floue Gbuel oe Thickened 

Milk 239 

Floue Baix 242 

Feapp6 

Clam Frapp6 . . . .315 
Grape " .... 315 

Frosting 320 

Frozen Custaed . . . 311 
Frozen Desserts (Sbx Des- 

SEETS) .... 306 

Fruits 276 

Apples — Cuban Style . 280 

Baked . . 279 

Stewed . . 279 

" and Prunes . 280 

Apricot and Prune Sauce 280 

Baked Banana . . .280 

Cranberry Sauce or Jelly 280 



Fruit Sandwiches . . 259' 
I'EUiT Soup ... .227 

Fruit Whip 291 

Fbuitade 112 



Date Bonbons 
Figs, Stewed . 
Lemon Baked . 
Orange Baked . 
" ,J^o. II . 
" Straws . 
" Sunflower 
Pineapple 
Prunes Stewed . 
Rhubarb Steamed 
Fruit Ice . 
Feuit Punch 
Feuit Pudding Sauce 
Fbuit Saiad . . . 



282 
282 
280 
280 
281 
315 
281 
281 
281 
282 
314 
117 
306 
275 



O. 

Game (Note Poultey 
Gelatin 

Bavarian Cream 
Coffee Jelly . 
Cream " 
Grape Fluff . 
Grape Jelly . 
Jell-0 . . 
Lemon Jelly 
Made in a Minute 
Orange Baskets 
" Charlotte 
" Jelly . 
" Jelly No. 
Panopepton Jelly 
Panopepton Jelly 

Orange 
Peach Jelly . 
Peptonoids Coffee Jelly 
" Wine Jelly 

Peptonised Milk Jelly 
Snow Pudding . 

(Ind.) 
Spanish Cream 

" (Ind.) 
Strawberry Moussfi 
Wine Jelly . 

" No. II 



152 

203 

210 

207 

207 

211 

20e 

212 

206 

Dessert 212 

. 206 

. 211 

. 205 

II . . 206 

. . 20s 

with 

. . 209 

. . 207 
207 
205 
208 
209 
209 
210 
210 
212 
204 
205 



Sauces: Seeved with Gel- 
atin 

Orange 210 

Soft Custard . . .287 

Whipped Cream . . .305 
Gems 

Cornmeal Gems . . . 254 

White Gems .... 254 

Ginger Bread .... 320 

Ginger Tea 137 

Grape Juice (Welch's) . 485 
Albuminized Grape juice 123 
Grape Ambrosia . , ,313 



454 



INDEX TO BEGIPES 





PAGE 




PAGE 


Grape Prappfi . 


. 315 


Fish, Baked . . . . 


164 


" Fluff . . 


. 211 


Creamed 


164 


" Jelly . . 


. 206 


Creamed Codfish . 


164 


" Ice Cream . 


. 309 


Gruel or Porridge . 


240 


" Juice, plain 


. 116 


Muffins 


253 


" Juice and Egg 


. 122 


Noodles . . . . . 


246 


" Lemonade 


. 121 


Boiled Noodles 


246 


" Lithia . . 


. 116 


Noodles Au Gratin . 


246 


" Nectar . . 


. 116 


" for Soup . 


246 


" Sherbet . . 


. 313 


White Sauce . . . . 


246 


" Water . . 


. 115 


Puddings 




" Whip . . 


. 291 


Brown Betty 


304 


" Yolk 


121 


Cheese 


304 


Gkavy fob Roasts . 


. 152 


Walnuts, Gluten BiscuH 




" " Roast Poui 


^TRY 155 


Crisps . 


305 


Grouse, Larded . 


158 


Plain . . . . 


304 


Gruels .... 


. 238 


Sauces 




Arrowroot Gruel 


. 238 


Cream . . . . . 


246 


Barley Gruel . 


. 238 


White 


246 


" with Bro 


th . 238 


Soups 




" of Jelly 


238 


Asparagus . . . . . 


224 


Browned Flour Gruel 


. 242 


Cream of Celery . 


225 


Caudle . . . 


. 241 


" Tomato . . 


227 


Cracker Gruel 


. 239 


Oyster . 


172 


Egg and Sherry Gru 


el . 241 


Toast 




Farina Gruel . 


239 


French 


258 


Flour Gruel 


. 239 


Wafers 




Flour Ball . . . 


. . 242 


Cheese 


261 


Gum Gluten Gruel 


. 240 


Plain 


261 


Indian Meal Gruel 


. 240 






Oatmeal Gruel No. I 


. 240 


H. 




" No. II 


. 241 






" No. II 


[ . 241 


Halibut \ la Creole . 


163 


Rice or Oat Gruel . 


238 


Ham Broiled . . . . 


152 


Rice Jelly . 


. . 244 


Hard Sauce 


305 


Tapioca Jelly . 


244 


Hasty Pudding . . . . 


242 


Gum Gluten — How 


Pro- 


Herb Tea ... 


137 


cured 


488-497 


HOLLANDAISE SaUCE . 


166 


Baked Egg . 


. . 180 


Hominy Mush 


243 


Biscuit .... 


. . 252 


Hot Cocoa Sauce . ,. 


311 


" Crisps . . 


. . 261 


Hot AND Cold Desserts 


286 


(a) Drop . 


253 






(b) Plain . . . 


. . 252 


7. 




Bread .... 


. . 252 







Breakfast Food . . .242 
Cheese Biscuit Crisps . . 229 
Crisps .... 256 
Cakes (Gluten Nut) . .319 
Fish 164 



Ice Cream . . . 307 

Caramel Ice Cream . 310 

" No. II 310 

Chocolate lee Cream . . 308 

Coffee Ice Cream . . . 308 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



455 



Frozen Custard 

Grape Ice Cream . 

Hot Cocoa Sauce for 
Cream 

Junket Ice Cream . 

Malted Milk lee Cream 

Peach Ice Cream . 

Peptonoids Ice Cream 

Easpberry Ice Cream 

Strawberry Ice Cream 

Vanilla Ice Cream . 
Ices 

Clam Prappg 

Fruit Ice 

Grape Frappfi 

Lemon Ice . 

Orange Ice . 

" No. II . 
" No. Ill 
" Straws 

Pineapple Ice . 

Scalpicon of Fruits 
Indian Meal Geuel . 
Irish Moss 

Blanc Mange 

Jelly 

Lemonade 



Ice 



J. 

Jellies 

Gelatin Jellies . 

Jelly and Ice . 

Meat Jellies 

Starchy Jellies . 
Jeix-0 

Jell-0 with Fruit 



PAGE 

311 
309 

311 
308 
310 
309 
311 
309 
309 
307 
313 
315 
314 
315 
314 
313 
314 
314 
315 
315 
315 
240 

297 
297 
112 



. 203 
. 114 
. 221 
. 244 
. 483 
. 212 
Made in a Minute Dessert 212 
Jelly Bread Pudding . 303 
Junket Tablets (Han- 
son's) 
Junket 

Cocoa Junket . 
Coffee 
Custard " 
Junket Egg-nog 
Junket Ice Cream 
Plain Junket . 
Whey . . . 



480 

294 
294 
294 
119 
308 
199 
19S 



KUMTSS 

Dr. Brush's Kumyss, 
Home-made Kumyss 

L. 



198 
198 



Lamb 

Chops Broiled in Paper . 151 
French Chops . . 150 

Lamb " Broiled . . 150 
Pan Broiled Chops . .150 
L^MON Souffle . 292 

Lemonade 

Apollinaris Lemonade 111 

Bran Lemonade .111 

Effervescent Lemonade 111 

Egg " 121 

Fruit " .111 

Grape " 112 

Irish Moss " .112 

Pineapple " 11 1 

Soda " .111 

Lemon Baked .... 280 

Bread Pudding 303 

Ice . 314 

Jelly . . . .206 

Milk Sherbet 312 

Whey . . . 198 

Liquid Peptonoids . . 492 

Dry Peptonoids Soluble . 492 

Dry Peptonoids with Broth 218 

" " Sandwiches 260 



Liquid Peptonoids Cold 
Hot 



215 
215 



" with Whey 198 

Peptonoids Coffee Jelly . 207 

Custard 290 

" Ice Cream . 311 

Wine Jelly 205 

Lettuce Sandwiches . . 259 

Lime Water 137 

M. 

Macaroni 245 

Baked Macaroni . . . 245 



456 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



Boiled Macaroni 
Boiled Noodles . 
Noodles ( Diabetic ) 
" Au Gratin 



PAGE 

245 
246 
246 
246 



Sauces and Accessories . 245 

Buttered Cracker Crumbs 246 

Cream or White Sauce . 245 

" Sauce (Diabetic) 246 

Tomato Sauce .... 245 

Made in a Minute Dessert 212 

Maitke D'Hotel Butter . 149 

JMalted Milk (Horlick's) 487 

Malted Milk . . .194 

" Blanc Mange 296 

" Cocoa . . 134 

" " Coffee . . 133 

" Custard . . 290 

" " lee Cream 310 

" Plain . . 194 

" Sherbet . . 313 

" " and Currant 

Jelly 114 

Malted Milk and Egg . 121 
" with Tamarind 116 
" with Wine . 114 

Matzoon 199 

Meat 140 



Broiled Bacon . 


. . 151 


Curled 


. . 151 


Broiled Ham . 


. . 152 


Broiled Steak . 


. . 149 


Chops or Birds Broiled in 


Paper . 


151 


Lamb Chops Broiled . . 150 


French Chops . 


. . 150 


Mutton Chops Broiled . 150 


Pan Broiled Beef Cakes . 149 


Pan Broiled Chops 


. . 150 


Boast Meats 


. 152 


Gravy . 


. 152 


Scraped Beef . 


. . 217 


EAT Jelues 


221 


Beef Jelly . . 


. . 222 


Calf's Foot Jelly 


. . 221 


Chicken Jelly . 


. . 222 


Panopepton Jelly 


. . 208 


" " 


with 


Orange 


. . 209 



PAGE 

Peptonoids Coffee Jelly . 209 

" Wine Jelly . 205 

Meat Soups (See Broths) 217 

Meringue 287 

Rice Meringue .... 299 

Milk 184 

Albuminized Milk . . 122 
Baked Milk .... 194 
Brandy and Milk . . .197 
Buttermilk (Artificial) 199 
Cinnamon and Milk . . 197 
Condensed Milk (Eagle 

Brand) 479 

Evaporated Milk . . .194 

Junket 199 

Kumyss 198 

Milk Toast 257 

Malted Milk . . . .194 

Matzoon or Zoolak . 199 

Modified Milk . . . .192 

Pasteurization .... 193 

Peptonised Milk . . . 195 

Effervescent . . . .196 

By the Cold Process . 195 

" " Warm Process 195 

Immediate Process . . 196 

Partially Peptonised . 195 

Specially " . 196 

nice Milk 197 

Rum and Milk . . . .197 
Sherbets . . . .312 

Sherry and Milk . . .197 
Sterilization .... 194 
Thickened Milk . . 239 

Whey 198 

Acid Phosphate . . .113 

Lemon 113 

Liquid Peptonoids -with 

Whey 198 

Panopepton with Whey 198 

Wine Whey . . . .113 

Minute Tapioca .... 484 

Miscellaneous Beverages 127 

Cereal Coffee . . . .133 

Cocoa (Ind.) . . . .134 

Breakfast Cocoa . . . 133 

Malted Milk Cocoa . . 134 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



457 





PAGE 


Coffee ...... 


132 


Boiled Coffee . . . . 


132 


" (Ind.) . . 


132 


Filtered " . . . . 


132 


" No. II . . 


133 


Malted Milk Coffee . . 


133 


Perculator Coffee 


131 


Chocolate 


134 


Milk Shake . . 


135 


Syrup . . . 


136 


" Vienna Style 


135 


Plain . . . . 


134 


" (Ind) . . 


135 


Special Non-Nutritive Bev- 




erages 


136 


Bran Tea 


137 


Cinnamon Water 


136 


Flaxseed Tea . . . . 


136 


Ginger Tea 


137 


Herb Tea . . . . 


137 


Lime Water . . . . 


137 


Slippery Elm Tea 


137 


Tea 


131 


Russian Tea . 


131 


Mock Bisque Soup . 


227 


Moussf, Strawbebbt . 


212 


Muffins 




Bran Muffins . 


254 


Gum Gluten Muffins . 


253 


Mulled Wine . . . . 


122 


Mush ( See Breakfast 




Food) . . . . 


242 


Mutton Broth . . . . 


219 


Mutton Chops Broiled 


150 



N. 

Noodles (Diabetic) . . 246 

" Au Gratin . . 246 

Boiled . . . .246 

Non-Nutritious Beverages 136 
Bran Tea . . .137 

Cinnamon Water . .136 
Flaxseed and Licorice Tea 136 
Flaxseed Tea . . . .136 

Ginger Tea 137 

Herb Tea 137 

Lime Water . . . .137 



Slippery Elm Tea . . 137 
Nutritious Desserts . . 285 
Nutritious Wheat Pud- 

DINQ 296 

Nuts 283 



0. 



Oatmeal 

Caudle .... 
Oat or Rice Gruel 
Oatmeal Gruel . 

" No. II 
" No. Ill 
Mush . . 
Water 

" No. II 
Olive Oil (Nicelle) 
Salads 

Salad Dressings 
Onions 

Boiled . . . 

Greamed 
Scalloped 

Soup .... 
Omelet 

Baked Meat Omelet 
Bread Omelet 
Foamy Omelet 
Meat Omelet . 
Omelet Souffle . . 
Oranges 

Albuminized Orange 
Baked Orange 
Orange Baskets 

" Bread Pudding 
" Charlotte . 
" Custard 
" Ice . . 

" No. II 
" No. Ill 
« Jelly No. I 
" No. "" 
" Plain . 
" Sauce . 
" Straws . 
" Sunflower 
Orangeade . 



II 



458 



INDEX TO RECIPES 





PAGE 




PACE 


Oystees ..... 


. 166 


Dry Peptonoids with Broth 218 


Broiled . . . . 


. 170 


" " Sandwiches 260 


Creamed .... 


170 


Liquid " Cold . 


215 


Creamed No. II 


170 


Hot . 


215 


Pan Roasted . 


170 


with Whey 198 


Raw 


169 


Peptonoids Coffee Jeuly 


207 


Roasted in the Shell 


169 


Custard . . 


290 


Scalloped 


171 


" Ice Cream . 


311 


Soup .... 


171 


Wine Jelly . 


205 


Soup (Diabetic) 


172 


Phosphate (Hoksford's) 


478 


Stew 


172 


Acid Phosphate 


113 


To Wash Oysters . . 


169 


Whey . 


113 






Pineapple (Hawaiian) 


495 






Pineapple Cream . 


295 






Egg-nog . 


120 






Ice . . . 


315 






Juice . . 


113 


P. 




" Lemonade . 


111 






Tapioca 


300 


Panada (Crackeb) 


126 


Pop-Overs .... 


254 


(Bread) . . 


127 


Potatoes 


265 


Pan Bkoiled Beep Cakes 


5 149 


Baked .... 


266 


lee Panopepton 


216 


Boiled . ... 


265 


Panopeptou Bouillon Hot 228 


Creamed .... 


267 


Hot 


216 


Mashed . . . . 


265 


Jelly . . 


208 


Potatoes Au Gratin 


267 


" Jelly witl- 




Potato Balls . . . 


267 


Orange .... 


209 


" Cakes . 


266 


Panopepton with Whey 


198 


" in Half Shell . 


266 


Pasteurization . 


193 


Riced Potatoes . 


265 


Pasteurizer (Hygeia) 


194 


Surprise Balls 


266 


Parsley Bdttee . 


267 


Poultry 


152 


Peas Green .... 


269 


Birds Broiled in Paper 


151 


" Canned .... 


270 


Breaded Sauce for Game 


158 


" Creamed No. 1 . 


270 


Broiled Chicken 


156 


No. II . 


270 


Quail . . . 


156 


Peach Ice Cream . 


309 


Small Birds . 


156 


" Jelly . . . 


207 


" Squabs . . 


156 


" Meringue 


293 


Creamed Chicken . 


157 


" and Rice . . . 


298 


Dry Dressing for Stuffing 154 


Peptonised Milk 


195 


General Rule for Cleaning 


Eflfervescent 


196 


Poultry .... 


153 


By the Cold Process . 


195 


Gravy for .Roast Poultry 


155 


" " Warm Process 


195 


Jellied Chicken 


157 


Immediate Process 


196 


Larded Grouse . 


158 


Partially Peptonised . 


195 


" Quail . . . 


158 


Specially 


196 


Roast Poultry . 


154 


Pbptohoids (Liquid) 


492 


Dry Dressing . 


154 


Dry Peptonoids Soluble . 


492 


Gravy 


155 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



459 





PAGE 




PAGE 


To Bone Birds . . 


. 155 


Rum and Milk . ,. 


. . 197 


To Clean Poultry . 


. 153 






To Truss 


. 154 


8. 




Scalloped Chicken . 


. 157 




Prunes Stewed . . 


. 281 


Salads .... 


. 272 


Pudding Sauces . . 


. 305 


Chicken Salad . . 


. . 274 


Foamy Sauce . 


. 305 


Filled Eggs . . 


. . 184 


Fruit '• . . 


. 306 


Fruit Salad . . 


. . 275 


Hard " . . 


. 305 


Marguerite Salad . 


. . 275 


Orange " 


. 210 


Mixed " 


. . 275 


Whipped Cream 


. 305 


Sweetbread " 


. . 275 


" No. II 


. 306 


Tomato 


. . 275 


Punch 




Waldorf " . 


. . 275 


Fruit Punch 


. 117 


Water Lily " 


. . 276 


Tea " . . . 


. 116 


Salad Accompaniments . 276 


Tutti Frutti Punch . 


. 117 


Cheese Gluten Biscuit 






Crisps 


. . 276 






Cheese Wafers . . 


. . 276 






Salad Dbess'ings 


. . 272 


0. 




Boiled Dressing 


. . 273 




Cream Dressing 


. . 274 


Quail 


156 


French 
Mayonnaise . 


. . 273 
. . 273 


■UiUlicU • • • • • 

Broiled in Paper . 
Breaded Sauce for Gam 


'. 156 
e . 158 


Sardine Sandwiches 
Sauces for 


. . 260 


Larded Quail . 


. 158 


Ice Cream (Hot Cocoa) . 311 
Macaroni and Noodles 245-246 






Meat . . . 


. . 149 


B. 




Scalloped Dishes . 


271 




Fish 


. . 163 


Raspbeert Ice Cream . 
" Tapioca . 


. 309 
. 301 


Pudding .... 

Vegetable 
Sandwiches . 


303 

. . 271 
258 


Rhubarb Steamed . . 
Water . . . 


. 282 
. 115 


Boston Brown Bread 


. 259 


Bread and Butter . 


. 259 


Rice 




Cheese Sandwiches 


. 259 


Boiled Rice .... 


. 297 


Chicken 


. 259 • 


Cream of Rice Puddinj 


; . 299 


Egg 


. 183 


Peaches and Rice . 


. 298 


Fruit 


. 259 


Plain Rice Pudding . 


. 299 


Lettuce 


. 259 


Rice Gruel . 


. 238 


Nut " 


. 259 


" Jelly .... 


. 244 


Peptonoids " 


. 260 


" Meringue 


. 299 


Raw Beef " 


217 


" Milk .... 


. 197 


Sardine " 


. 260 


" Water . . . 


. 125 


Scalpicon of Fruits 


. 315 


" No. II . . 


. 125 


Scraped Beef 


. 217 


Southern Snow Balls . 


. 298 


Shell-Fish .... 


. 166 


Steamed Rice . 


. 298 


Oysters .... 


. 166 


Roasts of IVIeats . 


. 152 


Broiled .... 


. 170 



460 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



II 



Shell 



Creamed 
Creamed No. 
Pan Roasted 
Raw 

Roasted in the 
Scalloped . 
Soup .... 
Soup (Diabetic) , 
Stew . . . , 
To Wash Oysters 
Clams 
Albuminized Clam 
Clam Bouillon . 

" Bouillon Bisque 
" Broth 
" Broth No. II 
" Broth on Toast 
" Frappg . 
" Sherbet . . 
" Soup . . 
" Stew . 
" Water . . 
" " No. II 

Little Neck Clams 
Steamed Clams 
Sherbet 

Clam Sherbet . 
Grape Ambrosia 
Grape Sherbet . 
Lemon Milk Sherbet 

" No, 
Malted Milk Sherbet 
Strawberry Sherbet 

" No. 
Sherry (Albuminized 
Sherry and Milk 
•Slippery Elm Tea 
Sippets 

Soda Lemonade 
Soft Custard 
Almond Pudding 
Apple Custard . 
Banana Custard 
Floating Island 
Meringue 
Orange Custard 
Peach Custard . 
Soft Custard No. I 
No. II 



PAGE 

170 

170 

170 

169 

169 

171 

171 

172 

172 

169 

172 

Water 123 

. 174 

. 175 

. 173 

. 220 

. 258 

. 315 

. 312 

. 174 

. 174 

. 173 

. 173 

. 172 

. 172 

. 312 
. 313 
. 313 
. 312 

II 312 
. 313 
. 312 

II 312 
. 123 
. 197 
137 
. 256 
. Ill 
287 
. 288 
. 288 
. 288 
. 288 
. 287 
. 288 
. 288 
287 
. 287 



PAGB 

Soft Custard (Diabetic) . 287 
Souffles ob Whips . . .291 
Soups ... ... 223 

Asparagus Soup (Cream) 223 

" Soup (Diabetic) 224 

Clam Bouillon .... 174 

" Bouillon Bisque . 175 

" Soup 174 

Consommg 228 

Cream of Asparagus . . 223 
" Celery . . 224 
" " Celery (Dia- 
betic) 225 

Cream of Corn . . . 224 

" Onion . . .225 

" Pea . . . . 225 

" " Potatoes . . 226 

" " Rice . . .226 

" " Tomato Soup 

(Diabetic) . . . .227 

Dried Fruit Soup . . .227 

Meat Soup 217 

Mock Bisque Soup . . 227 

Onion Soup (Diabetic) . 220 

Oyster Soup . . . .171 

" (Diabetic) . 172 

" Stew . . . .172 

Panopepton Bouillon . . 228 

Tomato Soup with Broth 226 

Victoria Soup . . . 228 

Soup Accompaniments . . 229 

Crisped Crackers . . . 229 

Crotltons . ... 230 

Gum Gluten Crisps . 256 

" " Biscuit Crisps 229 

" " Noodles . . 230 

Toasted Crackers . . . 229 

Sponge Cake . . .318-319 

Special Non-Nutritive Bev- 
erages 136 

. 137 
. 136 
Tea 136 
. 136 
. 137 
. 137 
. 137 
. 137 



Bran Tea 

Cinnamon Water . 
Flaxseed and Licorice 

Tea . . 
Ginger Tea . 
Herb Tea . . . 
Lime Water 
Slippery Elm Tea . 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



461 





PAGE 




PACE 


Spinach , . . . . 


. 269 


Date Tapioca . 


. . 301 


Squabs, Beoiled . . . 


. 156 


Pineapple Tapioca . 


. . 300 


Stbing Bears 


. 270 


Plain Tapioca 


. . 300 


Starchy Beverages 


. 124 


Easpberry Tapioca 


. . 301 


Barley Water . 


. 124 


Tapioca Cream 


. . 300 


" " for Infants 


. 125 


Tapioca Jelly . . 


. . 244 


Bread Panada . 


. 127 


Tea 




Cracker Panada 


. 126 


Bran Tea . . . 


. 137 


Crust Coffee 


. 126 


Flaxseed and Licorice 


Tea 136 


Oatmeal Water 


. 125 


Tea . . 


. 136 


" " No. II . 


. 126 


Ginger Tea . 


. 137 


Eice Water .... 


. 125 


Herb Tea . . . 


. . 137 


" No. II . . 


. 125 


Eussian Tea 


. 131 


Toast Water . . . 


. 126 


Slippery Elm Tea . 


. 137 


Starchy Jellies 


. 244 


Tea 


. 131 


Barley Jelly 


. 244 


Tea Punch . . . 


. 116 


Cornstarch Jellies . 


. 295 


Toast .... 


. 255 


Eice Jelly 


. 244 


Celery Toast . . 


. 257 


Tapioca Jelly . 


. 244 


Clam Broth Toast . 


. 258 


Steak (See Beef) . 


. 149 


Cream Toast . 


. 257 


STEBnjzATioN OP Milk 


. 194 


" No. II 


. 257 


Sterilizer (Hygeia) 


. 194 


Crisps (Gum Gluten) 


. 256 


Steamed Clams . 


172 


Crofltons 


230 


Stew, Oyster 


. 172 


French Toast (Diabetic) . 258 


Stokes' Mixture 


. 121 


Gum Gluten Crisps 


. 256 


Strawberry Ice Cream 


. 309 


" Biscuit Crisp 261 


Mousse 


. 212 


Milk Toast . . . 


. 257 


Whip 


. 291 


Sippets . 


. 259 


Sugar Syrup .... 


. 110 


Toast Crackers 


. 256 


Sweet Breads 


200 


" Sticks . . 


. 256 


Broiled . . . 


201 


" Water . . 


. 126 


Creamed .... 


201 


Water Toast . . 


. 256 


No. II . . 


202 


Tomato Sauce for Fis 


H . 166 


Fricasseed .... 


202 


(For M 


aca- 


Parboiled Sweet Bread 


201 


roni and Noodles) . 


. 245 


Salad ... 


275 


Tomatoes 




Sweet Breads with Peas 


202 


Baked 


. 270 


SWEETINA 


488 


Mock Bisque Soup 


. 227 


Sypup (Sugar) . 


110 


Scalloped .... 


. 271 






Stewed 


. 270 






Salad 


. 275 






Soup with Broth . 


. 226 


T. 




Turkey (See Poultry) 


. 152 






Tutti Prutti Punch . 


. 117 


Tamarind Water 


115 






Malted Milk 


116 






Tapioca (Minute) 


484 


V. 




Apple Tapioca . 


300 






Chocolate Blanc Mange 


301 


Vanilla Ice Cream . 


. 307 



462 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



Veal Bboth . 
Vegetabi^s 

Asparagus on Toast 

Boiled . . . 

Creamed 
Beet Greens 
Carrots . 

Boiled . 

Creamed 
Cauliflower . 

Boiled . . . 

Creamed 
Celery 

Boiled . 

Creamed 
Dandelion Greens 
Onions . 

Boiled . . . 

Creamed 

Scalloped . 
Peas, Green 

Canned . 

" Creamed No. I 

No. II 
Potatoes 

Baked . . 

Boiled . . 

Creamed 

Maahed 

Potato Au Gratin 
Balls 
" Cakes 

Half Shell 

Riced Potatoes 

Surprise Balls 
Spinach . 
String Beans 
Tomatoes 

Baked . . 

Scalloped . 

Stewed . 
Vegetable Sauces 

Cream or White Sauce 

" Sauce No. II 
Parsley Butter . . 



PAGE 




PAGE 


220 


Victoria Soup . . . . 


228 


261 






268 


W. 




267 






268 


Wafers 




269 


Cheese Wafers . . . . 


276 


268 


Gluten Cheese Wafers . 


261 


268 


Marguerite Wafers 


320 


268 


Water (Albuminized) 


122 


268 


Whey- 




268 


Acid Phosphate 


113 


268 


Lemon ... 


113 


268 


Liquid Peptonoids with 




268 


Whey 


198 


268 


Panopepton with Whey 


198 


269 


Wine Whey . . . . 


113 


269 


Whipped Cream . 


305 


269 


Whips and Souffles . 


291 


269 


Custard Souffle . 


292 


269 


Fruit Whip .... 


291 


269 


Grape Whip 


291 


270 


Lemon Souffle . 


292 


270 


Omelet Souffle . . . . 


292 


270 


Peach Meringue . 


293 


265 


Strawberry Whip . 


291 


266 


White Sauce foe 




265 


Fish 


165 


267 


Macaroni 


245 


265 


Noodles 


246 


267 


Scalloped Dishes . 


271 


267 


Vegetables .... 


271 


266 


Wine Jelly No. I . 


204 


266 


" No. II . . . 


205 


265 


(Mulled) . . . 


122 


266 


" Whey .... 


113 


269 






270 






270 


r. 




270 
271 
270 


Yeast 


249 


Fleischmann's Yeast . 


490 


271 






271 


Z. 




271 






267 


ZOOLAK 


199 



DIET FOR INFANTS 
AND INVALIDS 

THE proficient and careful nurse is well aware of 
the great importance of proper diet and will 
recognize the advantage of a method by which 
any desired proportion of protein, fats and carbohy- 
drates for an infant or invalid can be readily obtained. 
By the use of Mellin's Food, such a method is always 
at hand. 

For Infants. When Mellin's Food is added to cow's 
milk it supplies the carbohydrates and other elements 
necessary to make up the deficiency of these constitu- 
ents in cow's milk, and the resulting mixture shows — 
both chemically and physiologically — the closest re- 
semblance to mother's milk, thereby furnishing a 
complete and satisfying diet for an infant of any age. 
Mellin's Food also softens the curd of the milk, making 
it light and digestible, like mother's milk, thus enabling 
the infant to assimilate sufficient nourishment to insure 
proper growth and development. 

For Invalids ana Convalescents. Mellin's Food, 
being perfectly digestible, possessing nourishing quali- 
ties of the highest order, and requiring but little efi'ort 
for assimilation, is especially valuable for those of weak- 
ened digestion. Many invalids who have difficulty in 
digesting milk alone find that by the addition of Mellin's 
Food they can take as much milk as desired and digest 
it perfectly, thus proving the value of Mellin's Food as a 
diet for invalids and convalescents. 

Write to-day for our books, "The Care and 
Feeding of Infants," and "Mellin's Food for 
the Adult." We will send them to you free, 
if you will mention "Practical Dietetics." 

MELLIN'S FOOD COMPANY, Boston, Mass. 



463 



THE PRACTICE OF 

SHAMPOOING 



"QHAMPOOING Increases the blood supply and quickens 
' O the circulation of the scalp. It is, however, when the 
scalp is diseased and the integrity of the hair is threat- 
ened that shampooing, and especially wet shampooing, 
is an energetic assistant to other methods of treatment. 

"Dry Seborrhea (dandruff) is a very common affection 
of the scalp and a very frequent cause of baldness. When 
the disease runs a full course, it leads to obliteration of 
the hair follicles and irremediable baldness. 

"In order to check falling of the hair and restore the 
hair-forming apparatus to health, treatment should be 
begun with the first manifestations of disease. 

"The practice of shampooing is of value in restoring 
the sebaceous glands to normal activity and removing 
disease products from the skin. 

"An excellent preparation for shampooing the scalp is 
that known as Packer's Tar Soap. It contains pine-tar 
and glycerine, both of which substances are often of de- 
cided i.tility in unhealthy conditions of the scalp. Gly- 
cerine has an excellent effect upon the skin, and pine- 
tar possesses antiseptic virtues. These constituents ren- 
der the soap serviceable when applied in the form of a 
shampoo. By this practice we obtain the benefits of lo- 
cal massage, the detergent action of a soap, and, addi- 
tionally, the remedial influence of pine-tar and glycerine. 
In threatened loss of hair, shampooing with Packer's 
Tar Soap may be performed much more frequently than 
is needful in health. It will be of advantage to have the 
scalp manipulated in this manner every day until de- 
cided signs of improvement are manifested. In that 
event the number of applications may be reduced to two 
and at least one in the course of the week. If begun at 
an early stage, this procedure, in conjunction with other 
local and probably general means, will ordinarily effect 
a cure." — John V. Shoemaker, M.D., LL.D., Philadel- 
phia, in The Medical Bulletin. 



Our new booklet — Just off the press — **The Hair and Scalp : Their Modem 
Care and Treatment." Sent Free on request. 

The PACKER MFG. CO. 

Suite 86-B 81-83 Fulton Street, New York City 

464 



GENERAL INDEX 



A. 

Absorption 

" of Carbohydrates 
of Fats . . . 
" of Mineral Matter 
" of Protein 
" of Water . 
Absorption, Summary of 
Acid, Hydrochloric . . 30, 
Acidosis, Dietetic Treatment 
Acid Phosphate . 
Acids, Fatty . 
Acids, Vegetable . 

Salts of 

Adolescent, Diet of . 
Aged, Diet for . 
Albumin, Cooking of . 

" Effects of Heat on 
Albuminoids . . 8-10 
Albumins .... 
Albuminuria, Diet in 
Alcohol, in Pneumonia . 
" Use of in Sick Room 
" Value of in Tuber- 
culosis 

Alcoholics as Beverages . 

Algae 

Amino Acids 

Amylopsin 

Anabolism . . ... 

Animal Food (See Protein, 
Meats, Eggs, Milk, Etc.) 
Antiseptics in Food Preser- 
vation ... 
Appendicitis, Diet in 
Appetite (See UBder Diges- 
tion). 



PAGE PAGE 

Appetite of the Sick . . .75 

46 Appetizers (See under Bev- 
48 erages ) . 

48 Apples 278 

49 Asparagus . .... 265 

47 Assimilation 50 

49 

49 B. 
37 

357 Baby's Stomach, Capacity of 409 

113 Beans (See Legumes). 

20 Beating in Cookery ... 90 

31 Beef 144 

31 " Cuts of 146 

442 " Drippings .... 20 

443 " Extracts 214 

11 " Juice 212 

178 " " Absorption of . . 213 

-140 " " Care in Serving . 213 

3-10 " " Composition of . 212 

394 Beef Juice, Substitutes for . 213 

349 " " vs. Beef Tea . . 213 

83 " Preparations . . . 212 

" Principles of Cooking . 213 

352 " Paw 214 

35 "Tea 213 

284 " " Composition of . 213 

39 " " Nutritive Value of 214 

45 " " vs. Beef Juice . . 213 

50 " " vs. Broth . . .218 
" Tests for Good . . .144 

Beets .264 

Beverages 35, 109 

95 " Acid . . . ,110 

389 " " Sweetening of 110 

" Albuminous . .118 

" as Appetizers . 35 

465 



466 



GENERAL INDEX 



fAGE 

, Miscellaneous . 127 
Nutritive ... 35 
" Sapid .... 35 

" Stimulating . . 35 

Thirst Quenching 35 
" Special Non-Nu- 

tritive . ... 136 

Beverages, Starchy . . .124 
Digestion of .... 124 
Principles of Cooking . . 124 

Bile 38 

Biliousness, Diet in . . . 395 
Body, Composition of . . 4 
" Energy Requirements 

of 60 

Bottle Feeding . . . .410 

Bread, Composition of . . 247 

" Digestibility of . . 247 

" Energy Value of .256 

" Fermented . . 249 

Gluten . . .248 

" Making of . . . 249 

" Nutritive Value of . 247 

" Puddings . . 302 

" Toasted ... 255 

" Unfermented . . 250 

Breakfast Foods . . 235, 242 

Breast Feeding .... 406 

Bright's Disease, Acute, Diet 

Bright's Disease, Chronic, 

Diet in . . . .391 

Bromelin 278 

Broncho-Pneumonia, Diet in 350 

Broth 217 

" Composition of . . 217 
" Energy Value of . . 218 
" Principles of Cooking 217 
" vs. Beef Tea . . 218 

Butter 189 

Butterine .... 20 

Buttermilk . ... 190 



0. 



Cabbage 265 

Cake 317 

" General Directions for 
Making 317 



Calcium Phosphate . 
Calories . ... 

Calorimeter .... 
Cane Sugar .... 
" " Description of 
" Food, Uses of 
" " Sources of 
Carbohydrates 

" Absorption of 

" Classifications 

of , . . 



PAGE 

29 
57 
57 
14 
14 
14 
14 
12 
48 



13 
12 
40 
12 



Carbonates 
Carrots . 
Casein . 
Cauliflower 
Celery 
Cellulose 



Definition of 

Digestion of 

Function of 

of Animal Food 138 

Source of 12 

30 

. . . 264 

9, 185 

265 

. . . . 265 

17, 235 



Centigrade Scale, Change to 

Fahrenheit . . . 106 

Cereal Breakfast Foods . 235 
Cereals ... . . 233 

" Care of . .237 

" Composition of . . 234 
" Digestibility of 236 

" Nutritive Value of 237 
" Principles of Cook- 
ing . ... 235 
Cheese . . .189 
Chicken, How to Select . . 153 
Children, Feeding Sick . . 438 

Chlorides 29 

Chocolate 129 

" Compared with Tea 
and Coffee . . . .130 
Chocolate, Nutritive Value of 130 
" Principles of Cook- 
ing of 130 

Chocolate, Source of . . . 129 
Cinnamon .... .34 

Clams 168 

" Varieties of . . . 168 

Cloves 34 

Cocoa 129 

Codliver Oil 20 



GENERAL INDEX 



467 



Coffee . 

" Effects of ... . 

" Sources of ... 

Colic, Dietetic Treatment of, 

in Children .... 

Collagen 10, 

Condiments ... 

Classification of . . . 
Constipation, Diet in 

" in Nurslings, 

Treatment of 
Consumption { See Tubercu- 
losis). 
Convalescence, Diet in . 
Cooking, Blending Ingredi- 
ents in 
Cooking, Methods of 

" Objective Points in 
" Principles of 
" Processes, Objects of 
" Processes, Principal 
" Success in . . . 
" Suggestions in 
Method of Working in 

Crackers 

Cream 185, 

Curds .... 

Cutting in Cookery . 



PAGE 




128 


Diet, 


128 


ii 


128 






Diet, 


438 


(( 


140 


it 


33 


({ 


33 




382 


Diet, 


441 


Diet, 

ii 


332 






Diet, 


90 





D. 

Dessert, Frozen . . . 306 

Desserts, Nutritious . . . 286 

Dextrin 40 

Dextrose . . . . 13 

" Description of . . 13 

Food Uses of . . 14 

" Sources of . . .14 

Diabetes, Diet in . . 355 
" Chronic, Diet of . 358 

Diabetic Chart (Joslin and 

Goodall) . . . .359 

Diabetic Diet of Bellevue 

Hospital 356 

Diabetic Diet of Massachu- 
setts General Hospital . 357 

Diabetic Diet of Presbyterian 

Hospital, N. Y. . . . 357 

Diarrhoea, Diet in . . . 385 



after Laparotomy, etc. 399 
Animal, Disadvantages 
of Exclusive . . 139 

Bellevue Hospital . 328 

Broth 327 

Convalescent . . . 323 
Diabetic, of Bellevue 
Hospital . . . 356 

Diabetic, of Massachu- 
setts Hospital . . 357 

Enteric 388 

Extra, for Typhoid, in 
Presbyterian Hospital, 

N. Y 341 

Farinaceous . 324-5 

Fat Free . . . 326 

gg " Fish 327 

89 " High Caloric, in Ty- 

89 phoid . . 336 

89 Diet, Hospital, General Type 
88 of . . . . 323 

Diet, Hospital Extra . . 327 
Diet, Ideal . ... 233 

" in Acute Bright's Dis- 
ease . . . 390 
Diet in Acute Gastritis . 373 
" in Acute Gout . . 367 
" in A e u t e Nephritis, 
' Mass. Gen'l Hosp. . 392 
Diet in Acute Rheumatism. 368 
" in Adolescence . 442 
" in Appendicitis . 389 
" in Albuminuria . 394 
" in Biliousness . . 395 
" in Broncho- Pneumonia 350 
" in Chronic Diabetes . 358 
" in Chronic Gastritis 373 
" in Chronic Gout . 368 
" in Constipation . . 382 
" in Convalescence from 

Fever . 332 

Diet in Convalescence from 

Typhoid . . . 339 

Diet in Diarrhcsa . . . 385 

" in Diphtheria . . . 347 

" in Disease . . .331 

" in Diseases of the Gen- 

ito Urinary System . 390 



90 
260 
189 
190 

90 



468 



GENERAL INDEX 



PAGE 

Nutri- 
. . 355 
. 386-387 
. . 381 



Diet in Disorders of 
tion . . . , 

Diet in Dysentery 
in Dyspepsia 
in Fevers 

in Gastric Diseases 
in Heart Disease 
in Infectious Diseases 
in Intestinal Diseases 
in Lithemia 
in Lying-in Period 
in Mumps 

in Nervous Disorders 
in Obesity 
in Old Age . 
in Oxaluria . 
in Pneumonia . 
in Pregnancy 
in Quinsy 
in Skin Diseases 
in Surgical Cases 
in the Sedentary 
in Tonsilitis 
in Tuberculosis (e s p e- 
cially Pulmonary Con- 
sumption ) 

Diet in Typhoid, Late Con- 
valescent (Presbyterian 
Hospital, N. Y.) . . 341 

Diet in Typhoid, Summary of 337 
" in Ulcer of the Stomach 376 
" in Vomiting of Preg- 
nancy 402 

" in Whooping Cough . 351 

Diet, Liberal, in Typhoid 

Fever .... 336, 341 

Diet, Light 323-4 

" Liquid Enteric . . .388 
" Liquid, in Typhoid 335, 337 



331 
373 
396 
331 
381 
367 
403 
350 
395 
370 
443 
325 
348 
401 
346 
396 
397 
443 
346 



. 351 



of 



FAGS 

Diet, Restricted . . . .328 
" Salt-free . . . .393 

" Schmidt 327 

" Special Enteric . . . 388 
" Starvation, in Typhoid 334 
" Vegetable vs. Animal . 233 
" Strictly Sugar-free . . 357 

" Test 326 

Dietaries for Young Chil- 
dren ... . . 436 
Dietaries, Hospital . . . 323 
Digestion . 

" Evidences 
Sick . . . 
Digestion of Fat . 
" of Protein, 

ucts of 
Digestion of Protein, 

mary of 
Digestion of Proteins 

" of Proteins in In- 
testines 

Digestion of Proteins ii 
Stomach . . . . , 
Digestion of Starch . 

Products of .... 
Summary of ... . 
Digestion of Sugars 



Prod- 
.37, 

Sum- 



36 

74 
40 

39 

39 
36 

38 

36 
40 
41 
41 
42 

Products of 42 

42 
41 
45 
43 

347 
73 

331 
84 



Summary of . . . 
Digestion, Salivary . 

" Rate of . . 

" Resume of 

Diphtheria, Diet in . 
Disease, Acute, Feeding in 

" Diet in 
Disinfection of Utensils . 

Drinks, Cold 109 

Drinks, Hot 109 

Dysentery (Acute Colitis), 

Diet in . ... 387 

Dyspepsia; Diet in . . . 381 



" Meat, Exclusive . . 51 

" Milk 324 

" Mixed 7 

" Nephritic . . . .392 
" Nitrogenous . . . 325 
" Nutrient ... .325 
" of Nursing Mother . 404 
" of Wet Nurse . . .404 Eggs ... 
Diets, Presbyterian Hospital, " Composition of . 

N. Y 329 « Cooking of 



E. 



. 175 
. 175 
11-12 



GENERAL INDEX 



469 



PAGE 

Eggs, Digestibility of . . 176 
" Energy Value of 118, 179 
Nutritive Value of . .177 
Principles for Cooking 178 
Suggestions Concerning 178 
Test for Fresh . . .178 
Varieties of . . . . 176 
Enteric Diet . ... 388 

Equivalents, Table of Metric 101 

Erepsin 39 

Excretion . . 53 

Extractives, Nitrogenous 11, 138 

144 
Extracts, Flavoring ... 34 

F. 

Fahrenheit Scale, Change to 

Centigrade . . . .106 

Fat 19 

" Absorption of ... 48 
" Animal . . 138 

" Cheap Forms of . . .21 
" Definition of . . . . 19 
" Description of . 20 

" Digestibility of ... 22 
" Digestion of 40 

« Function of . .21 

" Percentages in Cream, 
Table Showing . . .426 
Fat, Principles of Cooking . 22 
" Sources of . . . 21 

" Teats for . . . 23 

" vs. Carbohydrate as 

Food 23 

Fat, Value of in Tuberculosis 352 

Feeding, Details of . 76 

Forced ... 78 

" in Acute Disease . 73 

Feeding, Infant ... 406 

Artificial . . .406 

" Breast . . . .406 

" Hygiene of Natural 408 

Feeding, Nasal . . . .79 

Feeding of Young Children 434 

" of Young Children, 

General Rules for . . 435 

Rectal ... 79 

" the Helpless Pa- , 

tient 78 



PAGE 

Feeding the Sick ... 72 
" the Sick, Physi- 
cians' Directions for . 72 
Feeding the Sick, Position in 77 
the Sick, Time for . 77 
" the Unconscious Pa- 
tient 78 

Feeding and Sleep ... 78 

Fever, Diet in .... 331 
" Typhoid (See Typhoid 
Fever). 

Fibrin 10 



Figs 
Fish 



278 
159 
160 
159 
161 
160 



" Composition of 

" Digestibility of 

" Energy Value of . 

" Nutritive Value of 

" Principles of Cooking 161 

" Salt 160 

" Sauces 165 

" Season for . . . . 161 

" Test for Freshness of 161 

Fletcher, Mr., on Mastication 41 

Folding In, in Cookery . . 90 

Food Accessories . . 4, 33 

" Adjuncts . . 4, 33 

" Adulteration of . . 97 

" Animal 138 

" Animal, Carbohydrates 

of 138 

Food, Animal, Composition 

of 138 

Food, Animal, Digestibility 

of 139 

Food, Extractives of . 138 

" Mineral Matter of .139 
" Animal, Proteins . . 138 
" Animal, Water of . 139 
" Care of .... 92 
" Care of, in Markets 

and Kitchens . . 92 

Food, Classification of . 5, 6 
" Composition of 4 

" Concentration of . 95 

" Definition of . . . 4 
" Effects of Heat on . 88 
" Determination of Energy 
Value of .... 58 



470 



GENERAL INDEX 



anti- 



Food, Fly Pollution of . 
" How to Serve 
" Methods of Cooking 

Liquid (Fluid) 
" Nitrogenous 

Classification of 
Source of . 
Non-Nitrogenous 
Object of 
Predigestion of 
Preservation 
Preservation by 

septics 

Preservation by D r y- 
ing . . 

Preservation by Exclu- 
sion of Air 

Preservation by Freez- 
ing . . . 
Quantity and Quality 
of, for Sick 
Soft (Semi-Solid) 
Solid . . . 
Source of . 
Storage of . 
Temperature of, for 
Sick . . . 



7AGB 

94 



. 323 



Food, 



Food 
Food 
Food 
Food, 
Food, 



9 
12 

3 
96 
95 

95 

95 

95 

95 

76 

323 

323 

4 

93 

76 

Food Values 54 

" Values, Tabulation of 64-71 
" Vegetable . . 231 

" Vegetable, Carbohy- 
drates of . . . .232 
Food, Vegetable Composition 

of 31 

Food, Vegetable, Digestibil- 
ity of . . . . 232 
Food, Vegetable, Fats of . 232 
" Vegetable, Mineral 
Matter of . 232 
Food, Vegetable, Protein of 232 
" Vegetable, Water of . 232 
" Washing of Uncooked 93 
Formulae for Infant Feeding 416 
Fowl, How to Select . .153 
Freezing, General Hules for 307 
" in Small Amounts 307 
Fruits ... . .276 
as Ballast . . 279 
" Composition of . 276 



PAGE 

Fruits, Digestibility of . . 277 

Dried 279 

" Flavoring Principle of 277 
" (Fresh) and Vegeta- 
bles, Agreement between 278 

Fruits, Fuel Value of . . 278 
" Nutritive Value of . 278 
" Precautions in Use of 279 
" Sugar-content of . . 277 

Fungi 284 

O. 

Galactose 42 

Game (See Poultry). 

Gastric Juice 37 

Gastritis, Acute, Diet in . 373 

" Chronic, Diet in . 373 

Gavage . . . 439 

Gelatin .10, 203 

" Digestibility of . 203 

" Nutritive Value of . 203 

" Source of . . 203 

" Principles of Cooking 203 

Gelatinoids . . 8-10, 140 

Ginger . 33 

Glucose ( See Dextrose ) . 

Gluten Bread 248 

" Standards . . .249 

Gout, Acute, Diet in . 367 

Chronic, Diet in . . 368 
Grape Sugar (See Dextrose). 

Grapes 278 

Gruels . . . 236, 238 

Gums . . . . 18 



Heat, Average Normal Out- 




put from Body . 


62 


Heart Disease, Diet in 


396 


Helpless, Feeding the 


78 


Horse-radish .... 


33 


Hospital Dietaries 


323 


7. 

Ice Box and Contents 


91 


Ice Cream . . . . . 


307 



GENERAL INDEX 



471 



Ice, Keeping of, in Sick Room 83 

Ices 313 

Infant Feeding .... 406 
Artificial . 410 
Caloric Val- 
ues of 429 

Infant Feeding, Formulae for 416 
Hygiene of 
Natural 408 

Infant Feeding, Maynard 

Ladd Table for . . . 425 

Infant Feeding, Scheme of 
at Lying-in Hospital, 
N. Y 431 

Infant Feeding, Table Show- 
ing Proportions for 
Healthy Child . . .427 

Intestinal Diseases, Diet in . 381 

Iron 



/. 






Jellies, Starchy . 
Juice, Gastric 

" Intestinal . 

" Pancreatic . 
Junket .... 


'. 190, 


244 
38 
38 
38 

293 


K. 






Katabolism 

Kefir .... 




50 

199, 


Kumyss 




191 


L. 






Lactalbumin 
Lactase . 
Lactose . 
Lamb 

" Cuts of 


■ . ■ 42', 
14, 


185 
186 
185 
145 
148 



" Test for Good . 145 
Laparotomy, Diet after . 399 
Lecithin .... 20 
Legumes . . . 262 
" Composition of . . 262 
Digestibility of 263 
" Principles of Cook- 
ing 263 




Levulose 

Lichens 

Lime Starvation . 

Lipase .... 

Lithemia, Diet in 

Lying-in Period, Diet in 

M. 

Macaroni 235 

Magnesium 29 

" Phosphate . . 29 

Maltase 40 

Maltose 40 

Marasmus in Infants, Die- 
tetic Treatment of . .441 
Mastication . . 41 

Matzoon ... 192 

Measures 98 

" Apothecaries' . . 100 

" Approximate . . 100 

" of Volume, Metric 

System ... . 101 

Measures of Weight, Metric 

System . . . 101 

Measures, Table of . 99 

Measuring Cup, Standard . 98 
Meat ... ... 140 

" Absorption of 141 

" Broiling of 142 

" Composition of . . 140 

" Cooking .... 142 

" Cuts of . . 143, 146 

" Digestibility of 141 

" Effect of Cooking . 141 

" Efi'ects of Water on . 143 

" Energy Value of . 149 

" Jellies . . 204, 218, 221 

" Nutritive Value of 140 

" Quality of 143 

" Uncooked . . 141 

Metabolism of Carbohydrates 52 

" Fat . . . 52 

" " Protein . 51 

Metric System . . . 101 

Milk as a Beverage . 35 

" Ash of . . . 185, 186 

" Care of 187 



472 



GENERAL INDEX 



TAGE 
187 

184 
192 
193 



410 
185 
193 
194 
185, 186 

) 

191 

419 



Milk, Certification of 
" Composition of . 
" Condensed . 
" Desiccated . 
" Difference Between Hu- 
man and Cows . 
Milk, Digestibility of 
" Energy Value of 
" Evaporated 
" Fats of . . . 
(See Cream, Butter 
Milk, Fermented 

" FormulEe, Fat to Pro 
tein = 3:1 
Milk, Formulae, Fat to Pro 

tein = 2:1 ... 422 

Milk, Formulie, Fat to Pro- 
tein, nearly Equal . 423 
Milk, Home Modification of 414 
" Human, Drugs in . . 405 
" Laboratory . . .414 
" Metschnikoff's Arti- 
ficially Soured Milk . 191 
Milk Modification . . . 412 
" Modification, What Di- 
lution to Use . . .413 
Milk, Modified ... 192 
" Mothers, Composition 

of 407 

Milk, Nutritive Value of 185 
" Pasteurisation of . 188 
" Peptonized . . .192 
" Products . . . .189 
" Quantity to Use in In- 
fant Feeding . . 413 
Milk, Skimmed . . . .186 

" Sour 190 

" Sterilisation of . .188 
Milk, Sugar (See Lactose) . 
Mineral Matter .... 29 
" " Absorption of 49 

" " Amount and 

Kind of in Body . . 29 
Mineral Matter, Function of 29 
" " Importance 

of 31 

Mineral Matter in Plants . 31 
" " in Animal 
Food 30, 139 



PAGE 

Mineral Matter, Source of . 30 
" Uses of in 

Disease 32 

Moss, Iceland 285 

" Irish . . . . 285 
Mouth, Cleansing of, before 

Feeding 77 

Mumps, Diet in ... . 350 

Mushrooms 284 

Mustard 34 

Mutton 145 

" Cuts of . . . 148 

" Test for Good . . 145 

Myosin 10, 140 



Nasal Feeding .... 79 
Nephritic Diet .... 392 
Nervous Disorders, Diet in . 395 
Nitrogen Balance ... 54 
Nursing Bottle . . . .415 
" Mother, Diet of . 404 
" Schedule for . . 409 

Nut Butters 283 

" Flours 283 

Nutmeg 34 

Nutrition 36 

" Conditions for Per- 
fect 7 

Nutrition, Diet in Disorders 

of 355 

Nuts . 283 

" Composition of . . 283 
" Cooking of . . 283 

" Digestibility of . . 284 
" Nutritive Value of . 284 



0. 

Obesity, Diet in . 
Oils 

Volatile 
Olein .... 
Oranges 
Oleomargarin . 
Onions . 
Ovariotomy, Diet after 
Oysters .... 



370 

19 

21 

20 

277 

20 

264 

399 

166 



GENERAL INDEX 



473 



PAGE 

Oysters, Composition of . 167 
" Digestibility of . . 167 
" Energy Value of . 169 
" Principles for Cook- 
ing 167 

Oysters, Season for . . . 167 
" Variety of . . .168 



Palmitin 20 

Pancreatic Juice .... 38 

Parsnips 264 

Pasteurisation . . . 193 
" Apparatus for 194 

Peas ( See Legumes ) . 

Pectin Bodies 277 

Pepper 34 

Pepsin 37 

Action of . . , . 37 

Peptogenic Milk Powder in 

Infant Feeding . . . 433 
Peptones .... 37, 39 
Percentage Solutions, Tables 

for Preparing . . 104 

Phosphorus . . . . 20, 29 
Physicians' Directions for 

Feeding the Sick . . 72 

Pineapples 278 

Pneumonia, Alcohol in . 349 

Diet in . . 348 

Polysaccharides . . . 16-19 

Pork 145 

Potassium 29 



of 



Potatoes .... 

" Energy Value of 
Poultry .... 

" Digestibility of 

" General Rule 
Cleaning . 
Poultry, Principles of Cook- 
ing 

Pregnancy, Diet in . 
Prematurity, Feeding in 
Protein, Absorption of . 
Acid . . . 

" Alkaline 

" Animal . 

" Cooking of . 



264 
265 
152 
152 

153 

153 

401 

440 

47 

38 

39 

138 

11 



PAGE 

Protein, Digestion, Table of 39 

" Function of . . 10 

" Vegetable . . 10 

Proteoses . . . 39 

Prunes .... . . 278 

Ptomaine Poisoning . . 93 

Ptyalin 40 

Puddings, Bread .... 302 
Punctuality in Serving 

Meals 75 

Purins 11 

0. 

Quinsy, Diet 346 

R. 

Radishes 264 

Rectal Feeding . . . 79-83 

" " Formulae for 82 

" Technique of 81 

Reflex, Pharyngeal ... 41 

" Pyloric .... 38 

Rennin 37 

Rheumatism, Acute, Diet in 368 
" Chronic, Diet in 370 

Diet in . . 370 
Rickets in Infants, Dietetic 

Treatment of . . .441 
Roots 263 

8. 

Saccharin 15 

Salad Dressings .... 272 

Salads 272 

Salsify 264 

Salt (See Sodium Chloride) 34 
Sandwiches .... 258 

Sauces .33 

Salt Starvation ... 32 

Scurvy, Infantile, Dietetic 

Treatment of . . 441 

Seasiclcness, Dietetics of . 402 
Sedentary, Diet of 443 

Shell-Pish 166 

Sherbets . . .312 

Sick, Feeding the . . . 72 



474 



GENERAL INDEX 



PAGE 

Skin Diseases, Diet in . . 396 
Sodium ... . . 29 
Sodium Chloride .... 30 
" " as a Condi- 
ment 34 



Soup . ... 
" Accompaniments 
" General Rule 


for 


223 
229 


Blending . 
Spices 




223 
34 


Spinach .... 
Starch 




265 
16 


" Cooking of . 
" Description of 
" Digestion of . 
" Food Uses of 




18 
17 
40 
17 


" Source of 




17 


" Test for . . 


19 


Starvation Diet . 


334 


Steak, Broiled . . . . 


149 


Steapsin (See Lipase) 
Stearin 


20 


Sterilisation 


194 


Stirring in Cookery . 
Stomach 


90 
36 




37 


" Pyloric Sphincter of 
Tube, Use of . . 


38 
79 


Strontium 


32 




42 


Sugar 


13 


" Dietetic Uses of . 


15 


" Digestion of . . . 
" Invert .... 


42 

277 


" of MiUi (See Lac- 




tose ) . 
Sugar Starvation .... 
" Substitutes for . 


357 
15 


" Tests for ... . 


16 


" Use of in Cookery 

Sulphur 

Surgical Cases, Dietetic 

Management of 
Sweetbreads 


15 
29 

397 
200 


Definition of . 


200 


" Digestibility of 

" Energy Value of 

Sweetina . 15, 


200 
201 
110 


Syntonin 




10 



T. 

Tallow 20 

Tea ]27 

" Active Principles of . 127 
" Effects of .... 128 

Thermometry 106 

Top Milk Method . . .416 

Toast 255 

Tubers (See Roots) . . .263 
Tuberculosis, Diet in . .351 
Turnips ...... 264 

V. 

Ulcer, Gastric, Diet in . 376 
" " in 
Massachusetts Gen'l 
Hospital 379 

Unconscious, Feeding the . 78 

Uric Acid Excess (See 
Lithsemia ) . 

Utensils, Disinfection of . 84 



V. 

Veal 144 

" Test for Good . . . 145 

Vegetables 261 

" Digestibility of . 262 

" Composition of 261 
" Green . . .265 
" Principles of 

Cooking 262 

Vegetable Sauces . . . 271 

Vinegar 34 

Viscera, Animal, Pood Uses 

of 144 

Vomiting, Diet in . . 402 
" in Young Chil- 
dren, Dietetic Treatment 

of 438 

TF. 

Wafers 260 

Water 23 



GENERAL INDEX 



475 





PAGE 




PAGE 


Water, Absorption of . 


. 49 


Water, Well .... 


26 


" Alkaline . 


. 28 


Weaning . . . . 


410 


" Boiled . . 


. 27 


Weight Development of In- 




" Carbonated . 


. 27 


fant, Computation of . 


429 


" Classification of 


. 25 


Weights 


98 


" Composition of 


23 


Table of . . 


99 


" Distilled . . 


. 27 


" Apothecaries 


100 


" Drinking . 


. 25 


Wet Nurse . . . . . 


407 


" Filtered . . 


26 


" Diet of . . . 


404 


" Food Uses of 


. 25 


Whey . . 


190 


" Functions of . 


24 


Whey-made Formulae 


424 


" Hard . 


. 25 


Whey Mixtures, Method for 




" in Animal Food 


. 139 


Calculating 


428 


" Properties of 


23 


Whooping Cough, Diet in . 


351 


" Kain . 


26 






" Soft . . . 


. 25 






" Sources of 


24 


Z. 




" Spring 


. 26 






" Temperature of 


. 28 


Zwieback 


19 



INDEX TO 
PUEB FOODS — SUPPLIES FOE THE DIET- 
KITCHEN — SUPPLIES FOE THE 
SICK-EOOM 

" Good nutrition depends upon pure and healthful food." 
There is no subject which should more engross attention 
than the purity of the preparations that are used in the va- 
rious compounds for the human stomach, and in the sick- 
room. 

A. F. P. 



It is delicious, pure and healthful 

Baker's 

Breakfast 

Cocoa 

EXCELS IN ALL THE 

ESSENTIALS OF A 

GOOD COCOA 

IT has the delicious natural 
•^ flavor of the best cocoa beans, 
scientifically blended, unim- 
paired by the addition of any 
foreign flavoring substances. 
Its ])urity is unquestioned, 
samples purchased in the 
open market serving as 
standards for chemical re- 
search. It is healthful, supplying the body with some 
of the purest elements of nutrition in a most agreeable 
form. These qualities combine to make it the ideal 
food beverage. 

53 HIGHEST AWARDS IN EUROPE AND AMERICA 

Be sure you get the Genuine with the Trade-Mart on the package. Booklet 
of Choice Reciiies Sent Free. 

WALTER BAKER & CO. LTD. 

Established 1780 DORCHESTER, MASS. 




Eegistered U. S. Pat. Office 



477 



A Drink in Fevers 



A teaspoon of Horsford's Acid Phos= 

phate added to a glass of cold water 
makes a cooling and refreshing acidulous 
drink for the patient during convalescence 
from typhoid and other febrile conditions. 
Its superiority over Dilute Phosphoric 
Acid, or any other acid, is due to the fact 
that it contains the phosphates of cal- 
cium, sodium, magnesium and iron, which 
means increased nutrition. 

Horsford's Acid Phosphate 

is more palatable and strengthening than 
lemonade, lime juice, or any other acidulous 
drink. 



If your druggist caniiot supply yon we will send 
small boUle prepaid on receipt of 25 cents 



RUMFORD CHEMICAL WORKS 

Providence, R. I. 



Fellows' Syrup 



of the 



H3rpophosphites 




The great care taken 
in the manufacture of 
FELLOWS' SYRUP, 
in order to secure purity 
of ingredients and uni- 
formity in strength, is 
responsible for the 
brilliant results obtained 
from its administration 



Re/ect ^^! 



Cheap and Inefficient Substitutes 
Preparations "Just as Good" 



*79 



JUNKET 

The Perfect Milk Food 

JUNKET TABLETS contain absolutely nothing but the 
pure Rennet Ferment and a little pure table salt. No chemi- 
cals whatever enter into their manufacture. 

Ideal for the preparation of WHEY, MODIFIED or HUMANIZED 
MILK, JUNKET PUDDINGS and ICE CREAM in endless variety. 

10 Tablets for 10 quarts, 10c. 100 Tablets in a package, 75c. 




Junket Brand Buttermilk Tablets 

Compressed Lactic Ferment Culture prepared at the Bacteriological de- 
partment of Chr. Hansen's Laboratory, Copenhagen, Denmark. 
Converts sugar of milk into lactic acid, rendering the milk palatable and 
healthful, and a preventive and curative for many intestinal disorders. 

15 Tablets in a vial, 25c. 75 Tablets in a package, SLOO 

At all druggists, or by mail direct from the manufacturers 

CHR. HANSEN'S LABORATORY 



Box 1709 



LITTLE FALLS, N. Y. 



480 



®®®©®®©®®® 


© 


S Suggested for Diet 



N. B. C. Zwieback Uneeda Biscuit 

N. B. C. Graham Crackers Water Thins 

Bent's Water Crackers 

Cracknels (Egg Biscuit) 

N. B. C. Oatmeal Crackers 

These are seven of the National Biscuit 
Company products especially desirable 
for dietary purposes. They contain all 
the requisite food elements for people 
not on normal rations — appetizing ap- 
pearance, digestibility, nutrition, clean- 
liness, relish, freshness. 

National Biscuit Company products are 
easy of assimilation because of their 
lightness and wholesomeness. N. B. C. 
products (and they are made in a wide 
variety) are world famous for their 
purity and freshness. 

NATIONAL BISCUIT 
COMPANY 



® ® ® ® ®|®||®||®ll© 



481 



Useful Foods 

in Typhoid Fever 

Peptonized Milk Whole milk with the'casein made soluble to 

such a degree that it forms only minute, flocculent and diffusible 
coagula, thus avoiding complications due to the accumulation of 
"cheese-like masses of casein" in the intestinal tract. Peptonis- 
ed milk has the nourishing properties of whole milk and is free 
from the qualities which so often constitute a serious drawback 
to its use as a food. Very simply prepared by means of 

Peptonising Tubes, Fairchild, and "Recipes." 

Samples and "Recipes" upon request, 

vVney — Contains the soluble albuminoids, sugar and saline consti- 
tuents of the milk and (in suspension) the particles of casein and 
fat which may pass through the strainer. Refreshing and ex- 
cellent fluid food. Very simply prepared from fiesh milk with 

"Pepsencia" (Essence of Pepsine, Fairchild) 

Analysis and" Directions" upon request. 

Panopepton Contains the entire soluble digestible substance of 

beef and wheat in a sterile and perfectly assimilable solution; 
designed especially as a food for the sick, for the nutrition of 
the patient in acute illness and under conditions where food in 
its native form or as ordinarily cooked or prepared is unsuitable 
or intolerable. May be given on cracked ice, in jelly form, 
as a cordial, etc. 
Recipes upon request. 

Whey with Panopepton Cracked ice, tablespoonful of 

Panopepton, cup filled with whey, drink slowly; admirable 
liquid food for fever patients and convalescents. 

LiSibose Fairchild's whole-milk-and-wheat food; the solids of 

pure whole milk and the entire digestible substance of whole 
wheat in a dry granular form. Made ready for use simply by 
the addition of water. Samples and circular with formulas and 
analyses upon request. 

Fairchild Bros. & Foster 
New York 
482 



Fruit and Jell-0 

Dainty and deliciovis combinations of Jell-O and frait are made in a 
minute, and these dishes are not only especially suitable for serving 
where time for preparation is limited, but for the regular dinner course 
or any special meal. 

The following is a recipe furnished by Mrs. Sarah Tyson Rorer, the 
famous cook and authority on culinary and other household topics. 

The fruit Tised can be changed or 
omitted altogether to meet re- 
quirements in the sick room or 
elsewhere : 

lUrs. Rorer's Orange Jambalaya. 

Fill a mould or bowl half full of 
mixed sliced fruit — oranges and 
bananas, or other fruits in their 
season. Dissolve one package of 
Orange Jell-O in one pint of boil- 
ing water. When cool, pour it 
over the fruit in the mould. 
Chopped nuts ma}' be added. Set 
away to cool. Pile whipped cream 
on top if desired. 

Pure fruit flavorings are used 
in making 






and in every respect our famous 
preparation is pure, wliolesome 
and healthful. 

There are seven Jell-O flavors, 
s.\\ pure fruil flavors: Strawberry, 
Raspberry, Orange, Lemon, Cher- 
ry, Peach, Chocolate. 

All grocers and general store- 
keejjers carry Jell-O in stock and 
sell it at 10 cents a package. 

In every package of Jell-O there 
is a little recipe book full of rec- 
ipes for making all kinds of de- 
licious desserts, and we have a 
larger recipe book which we will 
send free to all who write and ask 
us for it. 

THE GENESEE PURE FOOD CO.. 
Le Roy, N. Y. 



483 



FOR WELL AND SICK 

Minute Tapioca 



\ 



It is a light, healthful, delicious dessert, high in food 
value and very nourishing ; made from only the most 
carefully selected material. 

It requires no soaking, can be cooked in fif- 
teen minutes, and with it can be prepared any 
one of an almost endless variety of desserts. 

Try the recipes for Minute Tapioca in this book. 
If you want to know more 
ways of preparing it write us for 
our free Minuteman Cook Book. 
Samples Free on receipt of 
name of your grocer. Ask 
your grocer for the package 
that bears the red Minuteman- 

At All Good Grocers 



MINUTE 




ALWAYS READY 

TAPIOCA 

- NO SOAKING 



MinuteTapioca Co. 

ORANGE, MASS. 

223 W. Main Street 



484 



Welchs 

GcapeJmce 




K'* 



"^"ATURE'S own product, the pure 
juice of perfect Concords, rich in 
invert sugar, fruit acids and mineral salts; 
full of that tart fruity flavor so vi^elcomed by 
the fever sufferer. 

Administer it to your typhoid patients, to 
your child sufferers, in convalescence and 
whenever your judgment recommends a 
pure fruit juice. It's an energizing appetite 
restorative with its acid tang and delicate 
aroma — a food beverage the patient in- 
stantly takes to and never tires of, because 
it brings the cheer and vim of happy well 
days to come. Serve it cold in a small thin 
glass. 



>A 



Sample pint bottles gladly sent post- 
paid to nurses, physicians, sanitariums 
and hospitals. Send for descriptive 
literature and recipes for tasty sick- 
room delicacies. Free upon request. 



The Welch Grape Juice Co. 



Portage Street 





Westfield, N.Y, 



485 



GOOD THINGS TO EAT 

THAT ARE 

HOME MADE 

PRESERVES, MARMALADES, PICKLES, 
RELISHES, JELLIES, MINCE MEAT, 
PLUM PUDDING. 



This Kitchen is under the personal supervis- 
ion of Miss Chivvis, who assures the pubUc that 
on]y the purest and best goods are used in her 
establishment. 



SPECIALTIES 

GINGER PEARS, GRAPE CONSERVE, 
SPANISH PICKLE, CENTURY RELISH. 



Special prices to Hospitals, Hotels, Clubs, etc. 

F*rlce list ft^rnishLeci on applioation. 

C. E. CHIVTIS, - ■ MOUNT VERNON, NEW YORK 



486 



ORIGINAL GENUINE 



ni i/TM/ 



\LIUI\ 



Pure full-cream milk combined with 

the extracts of selected grains 

reduced to powder form 

DELICIOUS, INVIGORATING, 
NOURISHING 

Selected recipes will be found in this book for 
preparing original delicacies from Horlick's Malted 
Milk that will not fail to tempt the appetite of 
fastidious patients. Samples Sent Free and Ex- 
press Paid. 

ASK FOR 

HORLICK'S 



OTHERS ARE IMITATIONS 

HORLICK'S MALTED MILK CO. 

RACINE, WIS. 



487 



HOYrS GUM GLUTEN 



GUM GLUTE.N 



THE PURE FOOD LAW 

U. S. Standard for G/ufen.— "GLUTEN FLOUR is the product made 
from flour by the removal of starch, and contains not less than five 
and six-tenths (5.6) per cent, of Nitrogen, and not more than ten (10^ 
per cent, of Moisture." 

NOTE— Using the factor, 6.25, usually employed by the U. S. 
Government chemists, Standard Gluten Flour must, therefore, show 
at least thirty-five (35) per eent, protein. 

is guaranteed to be much richer 

in protein than the Government 

Standard prescribes. 

The increase of diabetes among young children is noteworthy; 

that it may be due to the increased use of malted and dextrinized 

cereal foods, at a time when the digestive organs are not prepared 

to digest J:hein, is very probale. 

Cow's milk differs from mother's milk in that the casein of cow's 
milk coagulates as soon as it reaches the stomach and comes in 
contact with the rennet ferment, into a cheese-like mass, which 
is not easily broken up and digested by the delicate stomach of the 
infant; while the casein of mother's milk forms a flaky coagula, 
which is, easily penetrated by the digestive juices. To prevent 
cow's milk from coagulating into a cheese-like mass, various food 
substances are added. Hoyt's Gum Gluten Flour is especially 
suited to this purpose. 

Hoyt's Gum Gluten resembles milk in that its chief element 
is nitrogenous, and of the same muscle-forming character as 
casein, and require essentially the same ferments for their proper 
digestion. 

When impossijble for an infant to retain other food in the 
stomach, Hoytls Gum Gluten Flour, made into a gruel, may be 
retained, and give strength, after which milk and milk-sugar may 
be added. 

SWE-ETINA 

A bottle will be mailed to any address upon receipt of 25c. 

NEW PR.ODUCTS 

GUM GLUTEN DAINTY FLUFFS 

These are most delicate and nutritious, containing more than 80j( 
protein and less than 10^ starch. 
GUM GLUTEN BREAD STICKS and BREAD ROLLS 

Are relished by all who are unable to use ordinary wheat bread. 
Contain over 60* protein. Children like them. 

HOW PROCURED 

As a rule the leading grocer in a city is agent for Hoyt's Gum 
Gluten. If not easily procured write us and we will gladly .send you 
name of our nearest agent, price-list and starch restricted menu. 
Send us a 2c stamp and we will forward you a sample of our 
DAINTY FLUFFS. 

PURE GLUTEN FOOD CO. 
90 W. Broadway New York 



488 



w*-S^ 





fite% ""^ 




PURITY ABSOLUTE FLAVOR UNIQUE 
NOTHING FINER PRODUCIBLE 

"It is our opinion the analytical tests of the UNITED STATES 
BUREAU OF CHEMISTRY prove NICELLE OLIVE OIL 
superior to all known brands tested."— STILLWELL & GLADDING, 
Official Chemists to New York Produce Exchange, 



Its Use Recoinniended by 

Mia ALIDA FRANCES PATTEE Miss CORNELIA C. BEDFORD 
MU. FANNIE MERRIT FARMER Miu JANET MACKENZIE HILL 
Mrs. HELEN ARMSTRONG Mia. ANNA BARROWS 

AND OTHERS 



NICELLE OLIVE OIL CO. 

96 Warren Street, New York City 

FOREIGN OFFICES : 
PARIS, 10 Avenue de I'Opera NICE, 7 Place Defly 



489 




"I am constant as the northern, star, 
Of whose transfix'd and resting quality- 
There is no fellow in the firmament." 

—Julius Coisar. 



490 



Dear- 

"^mvatvLQ of Kumyss as 
a tod, in almo^rt-ovcf'nj 
morbid condition espQCiall^ 
whentfio stomacii and nnm- 
tion are involved , is so well 
Known ihai it iseems supor- 
flttous to call your attention 
to it's meritiS^niuttliore are, 
just now.iSo maumjmitations 
and so much si^stitutin5 
that I T^ish to call wur atten- 
tion to the fact tliar all the 
genuine is istoppered Kith 
crown caps marked 

DR. E. F. BRUSH 

LABORATORY. MOUNT VERNON, N. Y. 
N. Y. Office, 217 W. 123d St. 

491 



Liquid Peptonoids (Emergency Food) 

When there is dislike for ordinary food, or 
inability to digest or assimilate it, to main- 
tain strength and tide over the emergency. 

Lactopeptine (Digestant) 

When inability exists to digest food, and 
digestive secretions, enzymes and functional 
activity need to be assisted or augmented. 

Borolyptol (Antiseptic) 

Thoroughly, pleasantly and promptly disin- 
fects, deodorizes and opposes germ action 
without irritating or any change of poisonous 
action. 



The Arlington Chemical Company 

The New York Pharmacal Association 

The Palisade Manufacturing Company 

Yonkers, New York 

"~ 492 



What Two of the World's Greatest Au- 
thorities on Invalid Dietetics say of 

SANATOGEN 



Professor C. A. Ewald of Berlin, writing in 
Zeitschrift fuer diaetetische & physicalische 
Therapie" says: 

"Sanatogen, on account of its being very easily absorbed 
and its perfectly non-irritating character, may be used with 
great advantage, that is, for the purpose of increasing the 
nutritive value of a given diet, in all cases of physical 
weakness, especially in those of a chronic nature, as well 
as in the acute stages of all those maladies which are ac- 
companied by high rise of temperature, and particularly 
in typhoid fe'ver." 

Professor C. von Noorden of Vienna, states: 
"As the result of my trial of Sanatogen, extending over 
a period of several years, I regard Sanatogen as an excel- 
lent protein preparation. 

An especially responsive class of cases to its use, com- 
prises all diseases in which the object is to promote tissue- 
building, such as various forms of anemia, particularly 
chlorosis and most varieties of mal-nutrition, since San- 
atogen most energetically promotes protein assimilation." 



It is safe for you to follow their lead and the lead of 
18,000 physicians who have recommended Sanatogen over 
their signatures as a reconstructive tonic during Fevers 
and Convalescence, after Operations, in Gastro-Intestinal 
Disturbances, in Neurasthenia and wherever the object is 
quickly and effectually to improve the patient's strength 
and vitality. 

Sanatogen is purest albumin in combination with 
sodium glycerophosphate-it is free from purins, fatorstarch, 
and may be used safely for diabetic or gouty patients. 

Sample and literature free to Nurses. 

THE BAUER CHEMICAL CO. 

30 IRVING PLACE :: :: NEW YORK 

The Grand Prix was awarded Sanatogen at the International 
Congress of Medicine, London, 1913. 



493 



A NEW EDITION REVISED AND ENLARGED 

INSTITUTION RECIPES 

FOR USE IN 

SCHOOLS, COLLEGES. HOSPITALS. 
AND OTHER INSTITUTIONS 

By EMMA SMEDLEY 

Superintendent of High-School Luncheons^ Philadelphia, Pa.; Formerly 

Instructor in Domestic Science, Drexel institute, Philadelphia ; and 

Instructor in Dietetics, The Johns Hopkins Hospital 

Training School for Nurses, Baltimore, Md. 

npHIS work will prove indispensable to the dietitian in 
schools, hospitals and other institutions where 
attractive, wholesome and economical food in large 
quantities is demanded. 

The recipes have been carefully tested in actual 
daily use, and, unlike the usual cookery book designed 
for use in the home, they are here given in quantities to 
serve either fifty or one hundred and fifty portions. 

In addition to the many valuable recipes, the book 
contains chapters which deal with the equipment of the 
institution kitchen, and the equipment, menu and ad- 
ministration of the high-school luncheon. 

" Institution Recipes " has been greatly appreciated 
by all who have used it, and this enlarged edition will 
answer the repeated requests for a fuller treatment of 
the subject. 

Price, $1.25 net By Mail, $1.35 C. 0. D., $1.50 

FOR SALE BY 

A. F. PATTEE, Mt. Vernon, New York 

494 




COX'S 

Insta.nt 

Powdered 

GELATINE 



GELATINE was first made Ijy J. & G. Cox as a 
substitute for calves' feet in tlie preparation of a 
nutritious food for invalids, about tlie year 1845. 

For many years it was sold only by Druggists as a 
specific for invalids througb medical suggestion. 

COX'S liSTSTANT POWDEEED GEEATINE 
is produced under ideal condi- 
tions, and is the PUEEST and 
most economical Gelatine on 
the market. 

Sold by all Grocers. 
ALWAYS in the Eed, AVhite 
and Blue CHECIvEEBOAED 
Packages. 

Cox's Manual of Gelatine 
Cookery, containing over 200 
recipes, will be sent, post- 
paid, on request. 

THE COX GELATINE CO. 

{Representing J. & G. Cox, Limited) 

100 Hudson Street 

New York 




495 



National Head- 
quarters f o r 

DIETITIANS 



HOSPITALS desiring dietitians 
can secure the services of grad- 
uates from leading Schools of 
Household Arts by applying to 
us. Prompt attention given to 
request and no charge is made 
for this service. 

DIETITIANS desiring hospital 
positions are invited to register 
with 

A. F. PATTEE 

134 South First Avenue, 
Mt. Vernon, New York 



496 



THERAPEUTIC APPLICATION OF GUM GLUTEN 

Dyspepsia, Gastritis, etc. — Being non-fermentative and 
quickly reduced by the digestive fluids, Gum Gluten is a food in 
perfect harmony with the action of the stomach and can be eaten 
in the form of gruel. 

Convalescence. — As Gum Gluten is remarkably rich in 
nucleo-albumen and all other cell-building material, it is capable 
of greatly quickening and intensifying the integrating processes 
of cell life and giving impulsive energy and force in the revival 
of the system to its normal metabolism. 

Rheumatism, Gout and Uric Acid Diathesis. — Being 
non-acid making and non-fermenting, and digested by the action 
of the stomach. Gum Gluten has a distinct specific value in all 
rheumatic conditions. 

Obesity. — As Gum Gluten is the muscle-building element 
of wheat, it is the rational unfailing cure of this uncomfortable 
condition. 

Diabetes Mellitus. — Gum Gluten can be made into bread 
and a great variety of dishes, and is the most satisfactory substi- 
tute for the wheat flour bread or bread in common use, and the 
effects are particularly noticeable in the reduction of sugar in the 
daily tests. 

Other Conditions. — All anaemic and chlorotic conditions 
due to an insufficient supply of red blood corpuscles or lack of 
haemoglobin, or both, and more remotelv to a disordered nutri- 
tion, are furnished the one thing needed by Gum Gluten. 

For Nursing Mothers. — It enriches the lacteal secretions. 

For Infants' Food. — To increase the amount of protein Gum 
Gluten Flour should ,be added to cow's milk to keep it from 
coagulating and fermenting. 

For the expectant mother it supplies the prenatal aliment par 
excellence, since it is rich in all those elements which serve to 
maintain the nutritive system at its best. 

For the Aged, the Enfeebled, the Invalid, and all whose 
vital powers are waning. Gum Gluten will be found a most 
wholesome, sustaining and helpful food. In its blood-making 
property it restores to the system the loss which has resulted in 
enervation and decline. 

Write us for price-list and our new starch restricted diet-list 
to give out to your patients. 

PURE GLUTEN FOOD COMPANY 

90 W. BROADWAY NEW YORK 



497 



THE 



fiazette Pocket Speller and Def iner 



{Second, Revised Edition) 



POCKET^PBLLER 
■ DEFINKR' . . 



THIS uniqje volume 
is a combined Eng- 
lish and Medical Dic- 
tionary. It is a marvel 
of Correctness, Com- 
pactness and Complete- 
ness. Bound in leather 
and gilt. 

REF/EIVS 

An extremely conveni- 
ent little manual. 

—Med. Kecord, 

A very convenient vest- 
pocket reference book* 

— Jjitrnal A ni. Med. 
Assn. 

It is certain to be popu- 
lar.— yJ/^i-j. Med. Jo2ir- 
nal. 

It surpasses all the 
smaller dictionaries 
published. 

—Med. Brief, 

It is remarkably com- 
plete, condensed and 
comprehensive. — 
(ONE-FOURTH SIZE) Atlanta- Constitution. 

PRICE, 50 CENTS 

Send for Specimen Pages a?id Other Particulars 

THE DIETETIC AND HYGIENIC GAZETTE 

206 Broadway New York City 



498 



THE 

Pennsylvania Orthopaedic Institute 

AND 

School Of Mechano-Therapy 

(Incorporated) 
1709-1711 Green Street - - Philadelphia, Pa. 

OFFERS 

Scientific Courses in Mechanical Treatments. 

COURSES IN MEDICAL MASSAGE 

SvFedish Movements, Medical and Orthopaedic 

Gymnastics 
Term: 4 Months - - Tuition Fee. $85.00 

Course in Electro-Therapy 
Term: 2 Months ... Tuition Fee, $25.00 

Course in Hydro-Therapy in all its Forms 
Term: 6 Weeks - - - Tuition Fee, $30.00 

Classes open in January, March, May, July and October 

All courses may be commensed at the same time and finished within 
four months. The instruction consists of daily clinical work and prac- 
tical lessons on patients referred to our clinics from various Hospital 
Dispensaries. Lectures and Quizzes on Anatomy, Physiology and 

Pathology by Physicians of the staff. Demonstrations and Instruction 
in the use of all mechanical apparatus. Complete Medico-Mechanical 
Zander Gymnasium. X-Ray Laboratory. 

Original Swedish (Ling) system, and Weir Mitchell's Rest-Cure system- 
All pupils attend clinics at several city hospitals. Payments can be 
made to suit your convenience. Particulars and illustrated booklet on 
Massage upon request. An early application for admission is advisa- 
ble. A diploma is awarded at the end of the term. 

Private Sanatorium for Nervous, Medical and Surgical cases, connect- 
ed with the institute. Special attention paid to proper diet. 

STAFF OF INSTRUCTORS 

J. Madison Taylor, A... M.D.(Umv. of 



Penn.; Assoc. Prof.of Non-pharmaceu 

tic. Therapeutics, Med, Dept. Temple 

Univ.) 
Daniel M. Hoyt, M. D. (Univ. of Penn.) 
Howard A. Sutton, M.D.(ln5tnictor[Univ. 

of Penn.) 
Eldridge L. Eliason. M. D. (Instructor 

Univ. of Penn.) 
Fred D. Weidman, M.D (Instructor Univ. 

of Penn. and Woman's Med. College). 
fi. B.Vincent Lyon, M.D. (JohnHopkins 

Univ.; Bacteriologist and Pathologist to 

German and Methodist Hospitals.etc). 
Wm. Erwin, M. D, (Hahnemann and 

Rush Medical College.) 
For all further information and illustrated prospectus address the Superintendent. 

MAX J. WALTER, M. D., Supt. 



Louis H. A. von Cotzhausen, Ph.O.M.D. 
(Grad.Phila.Col.Pharm., Med. Dept.; 
Univ. Penn.; Penn. Orthopaedic inst.) 



Max J. Waller. M. D. (Univ. of Penn.; 
Royal Univ. Breslau, Germany, and 
lecturer to St. Joseph's, St. Mary's, Mt, 
Sinai, and W. Phila. Hospital for 
Women, Phila. General Hosp.[BlockIey] 
Cooper Hospital, etc.) 

Tyra Gowenius, (Royal Gymnastic 

Central Insj. and Dr. Arvedson's and 

Dr. Kjellberg'slnst. Stockholm, Sweden. ) 

LillieH. Marshall, Fannie S. Frantz 1 

Edith W. Knight, Elizabeth Jamison I 

Pennsylvania Orthopaedic Institute. 



499 



National Head- 
quarters f o r 

DIETITIANS 



HOSPITALS desiring dietitians 
can secure the services of grad- 
uates from leading Schools of 
Household Arts by applying to 
us. Prompt attention given to 
request and no charge is made 
for this service. 

DIETITIANS desiring hospital 
positions are invited to register 
with 

A. F. PATTEE 

134 South First Avenue, 
Mt. Vernon, New York 



500 



Intforma 

are ready for wear 
and are sold by 
good stores in near- 
ly every city. 

They are the re- 
sult of many years 
of careful study of 
the needs of a train- 
ed nurse, and have 
a national reputa- 
tion for quality, splendid workman- 
ship and fit. Made in all sizes and 
various models and materials. 

An illustrated folder, swatches of mater- 
ials and name of local dealer gladly 
furnished. Write to 

HENRY A. DIX & SONS CO. 

NEW YORK 

Our label is on every garment for your protection. 




501 



"Not What We Have But What You Want" 




INC. 

MEDICAL HOUSE 

52 West 39th Street, New York City 

DEPARTMENTS 
Home Bureau-Medical House 

Nurses—For every kind of a case hospital and private. 

Delicacies— For the Sick, Broths, Purees, Gruels, Beverages, Jellies, 
Eggs, etc., on hand and to order, Manuel Freres' Swiss products. 

Surgical Dressings—For Operations, Sterilized Maternity Outfits in 
sealed boxes. Laparotomy Kits, Adenoid and Tonsilitis Sets. 

Medical Supplies— of every kind for the sick room and the hospital. 

Invalid Furniture— Chairs, Back Rests, Bed Trays, Stretches, Oper- 
ating Tables, Sterilized Sheets, Towels, Surgeons' Gowns, etc., 
sold and rented. 

Invalids Moved— anywhere from city to country, and house to house, 
room to room, and up and down stairs. 

Rest Cure Apartments— attractively and daintily furnished for con- 
valesecent and test cure patients. 

Houses and Rooms— fumigated and disinfected by the most approved 
methods without annoyance to householders or patients. 

Purchases— made of anything for hospitals, physicians, nurses and in- 
valids. Photographs submmitted, estimates furnished. 

Mail Orders— for sick room and hospital supplies promptly and efficient- 
ly filled. 

Information— given about everything pertaining to the sick room and 
hospital. Sanatariums and Houses recommended. 

Open Day, Night, Sunday and Holidays 



502 



Coward 
Shoe 



R£C U.S PAT OFF 




Shoes 
that rest 
tired feet 



Every nurse knows what it is to have tired, 
aching feet. The remedy is to wear shoes that 
rest the foot muscles, and help them over the hard 
places. Your feet need the friendly offices of 



COWARD 



ARCH 
SUPPORT 



SHOES 



made on special Coward Lasts for nurses. Wear 
them, and your feet will feel very different at the 
end of your long day. The benefit is immediate — 
the easement lasts. Pain is relieved, muscles stop 
aching, ankles and arches are steadied and strength- 
ened — leaden steps become buoyant. Try them. 

Coward Arch Support Shoe and Extension 
Heel, have been made by James S. Coward in 
his Custom Department, for over 33 years. 

JAMES S. COWARD ''tiiillt.lZ't''- NEW YORK 

Mail Orders Filled SOLD NOWHERE ELSE Send lor Catalogue 



503 




Hand-I-Hold 

BABE MITS 




AND THEIR USES. ^ _^ 

TO PREVENT 
SCRATCHING. 



ECZEMA, 

THUMB SUCKING, 
LEFT HANDEDNESS, 



NAIL BITING. 



INVALUABLE IN 
HOSPITAL 
E R V I C E, 

ETC., ETC. 



•■HAND- 
I-HOLD' 
BABE MITS 
are light-weight, 
daintily enamelled balls, 
spun without seam from al 
uminum. They are ventilated 
and have sleeves of wash fabric. 
The hands are confined in the balls, which makes it 
absolutely impossible for the child to scratch, suck 
his thumb, bite his finger nails, or pick at bandages. 
Yet it is all done so gently and humanely that the 
child is made happy by their use, for his arms, 
wrist, and fingers are practically free from restraint. 

So sure are we of results that we guarantee satis- ' 
faction or refund your money. Whether you have 
children in your home, or not, it will be well worth your 
while to drop a postal card for our FREE BOOKLET 
"D." which will tell you all about "Hand-I-Hold" Babe Mits. 




R. M. Clark & Co. 
246 Summer St., 
BOSTON, MASS. 




504 




THE THREE (3) HYGEIA NURSING BOTTLES 

TAKE YOUR CHOICE 



THE NON-BREAKABLE 
HYGEIA is made without glass. 
There isnothing to break. Thecozy 
keeps the food warm. The food- 
bag collapses, and air does not 
enter the bottle. Only two parts to 
clean, and these two parts can be 
turned inside out, something im- 
posible with any other nurser. The 
food-bag is made of pure gum, and 
lasts a long time, so that the 
breast-nipple is about the only 
part necessaryto replace frequently. 

THE TWIN HYGEIA is open 
at both ends, so the food cavity is 
easily accessable for cleaning. It 
has two breasts one of which forms 
the base of the bottle. This can 




The Non-break- 
able Hygeia 



B — Breast 

J — Jacket open at 

the bottom 
V — Ventinjacket 
s— Food bag goes be vented or not, as preferred. 

down as food 

goes out. THE REGULAR HYGEIA so 

long and favorably known, is now brought out 
with a new breast, with hidden shield, which 
prevents baby taking any portion of the breast 
into its mouth. 

ALL PARTS SOLD SEPARATELY 

BY ALL DRUGGISTS 
THE BALL-CUP NIPPLE, which has the 
puncture at the bottom ofthe cup, away from the 
tip, where it is protected from enlargement, regu- 
lates feeding better than any other nipple on 
the market, and will not collapse. It is a 
•mail nipple for a small neck bottle only. 
WRITE FOR OUR BOOKLET 




The Twin Hygeia 




BaH-cup 



HYGEIA NURSING BOTTLE CO. 



DEPT. A. 



1204 MAIN STREET 



BUFFALO, N. Y. 



505 



The BEST WORK PUBLISHED for 
HOSPITAL INTERNES and 

SURGICAL NURSES 



THE SURGICAL ASSISTANT 

(SECOND EDITION) 

BY 

WALTER M. BRIGKNER, B.S., M.D. 

Assistant Adjunct Surgeon, Mount Sinai Hospital, New 

York, and Chief in Surgical Out-patient Department; 

Surgeon to N. Y. Sanitarium for Hebrew Children. 



The Most Comprehensive Manual on Operating Room 
Technic and Methods. 

It is replete with definite instructions, useful hints and valuable "wrinkles" not 
elsewhere set down in print. 
It details : 

Xhc Oeneral Conduct of the Assistant; the Interne; Assistance at 
Dressings. Fracture Reductions, etc. Preparation of an Operating 
Room. Xhe Technic of Asepsis In all Its Fractlcal Bearlnea. Prep- 
aration of the Pniient. The Anesthetist. Preservation and Sterili- 
sation of Instruments and Accessories. Formulas and Methods of 
Surgical Sterilization* Hovr to **Hand*' Instruments. Technics of 
Assistance In the "Various Operative manipulations. Immediate 
After-Cure of the Patient. Formulae of Solutions, etc. lustrnments 
and Accessories (and their preparation) for each operation, etc** etc. 



The only book that is devoted to the methods and duties of those who ASSIST 
the surg-eon, and contains descriptions of all the important operations, step by 
step,/riJ?« the assistants standpoint. 

Bound In Cloth, 363 Pages. Price, $2.00 Postpaid. 123 Original Illustrations. 



INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SURGERY COMPANY 

Medical Publishers 

100 WILLIAM STREET, £06 NEW YORK, U. S, A. 



Im^^^^^^ 



VAPORIZER 

IS SIX 

INCHES 

HIGH 



Established 1879 



LASTS A 
LIFETIME 




Treatment without internal medication is highly desirable in Whooping 
Cough and. Spasmodic Croup, particularly in the very young. The value 
of Vapo-Cresolene depends upon its antiseptic power and the sedative 
influence of the vapor diffused through the air, and thus constantly 
breathed by the patient. Breathing becomes easy, desire to cough is 
allayed and the patient gains needful rest. 

The diseasesin which Cresolene has been especiallyutilized are Whoop- 
ing Cough, Spasmodic Croup, Bronchitis, Asthma, inflammatory condi- 
tions of the throat, the bronchial complications of Scarlet Fever and 
.Measles and as an aid in the treatment of Diphtheria. 

A \% solution of Cresolene in water kills the germs of Diphtheria, 
Typhoid Fever and pus at once. Cresolene is less toxic than carbolic 
acid and has a greater germicidal value. 

For sale by all Druggists. Literature on request. 

THE VAPO-CRESOLENE CO. 

62 Cortlandt Street, New York City, 

Leeming-Miles E..nlding, Montreal, Canada. 



507 



EXCELSIOR 

QUILTING COMPANY 

The Excelsior Quilting 
Company make Quilted Pads 
of the correct weight for 
washing properly and of best 
material. Their "trade mark" 
is on every pad which they 
guarantee to be sanitary and 
perfect. Be careful and 
guard your beds against 
"sweat shop goods" and imi- 
tations which unscrupulous 
dealers oflfer you because 
they make more profit. 



Look carefully at this 
trade mark so you will know 
it when you go to 'shop". 




"None genuine without 
Trade Mark." 



508 



THE STORM BINDER AND 
ABDOMINAL SUPPORTER 

Patented 

IS ADAPTED TO USE OF MEN, WOMEN. 
CHILDREN AND BABIES 



NO WHALEBONES 



NO RUBBER ELASTIC 



Washable 

as 
Underwear 



Light 
Flexible 
Durable 
Comfortable 




SPECIAL 

support in cases of prolapsed kidney, stomach, colon, re- 
laxed sacroiliac articulations, and hernia; GENERAL 
support in pregnancy, obesity and general relaxation; a 
POSTOPERATIVE Binder after operation upon the kidney, 
stomacfi, bladder, appendix and pelvic organs, and after plastic 
operations and in conditions of irritable bladder to support the 
weight of the viscera. 

Try it for CHRONIC INDIGESTION due to Ptosis of 
Stomach or Colon. 

Send for Illustrated folder and testimonials of physicians. 

NURSES GIVEN AGENCIES UPON APPLICATION 

General Mail Orders Filled at Philadelphia 

KATHERINE L. STORM, M.D. 

1541 Diamond Street PHILADELPHIA 



509 



THE "NEAL" 

POR.TABLE RUBBER 
BATHTUB FOR CHILDREN 




This unique and pretty little Sanitary Bathing Apparatus lor 
Infants is one of the best and most useful bathtubs on the 
market. It has boen in active use over fifteen years and 
has found its way into some of the finest Nurseries on both 
continents. The "Neal" Bathtub has been successfully 
used in place of an incubator for premature and delicate 
babies. By wrapping the infant in soft woolen blankets 
and placing hct-water bags around the child, the rubber 
keeps its uniform heat, and at the same time insures 
plenty of fresh air, and is of easy access to Physician and 
Nurse. This has been successfully tried in a number of 
cases. The inventor of this little bathtub is a graduate of 
the New York City Hospital Training School for Nurses. 
For further particulars send tor catalogue and price list to 
Miss S. C. NEAL, Patentee and Manufacturer, 9(i FIFTH 
AVENUE, New York City, U. S. A. 



510 




Ask your physician 

A user of Mennen's recently wrote us the 
following letter: My brother had a long spell 
of typho-malaria fever and, of course, was com- 
pelled to lie in bed many weeks. He suffered very 
much from bed sores. They were very large on 
one of his heels, his hips, shoulders and elbows. 
The nurse began bathing these in alcohol and 
then covering them with Mennen's Borated 
Talcum Toilet Powder. They had almost en- 
tirely disappeared in about ten days. The nurse 
would use no other but Mennen's as she said it 
was pure and contained healing qualities." 

Your physician will tell you that Mennen's 
Borated Talcum Toilet Powder, because it is 
soft, pure and efficiently medicated, is the right 
powder to comfort and soothe the skin, and aid 
in keeping it healthy. Sample box 4c in stamps. 

Sold by all druggists. 

Manufactured by 

Gerhard Mennen Co. 

Newark, N. J. 




rUAUEMARK 



511 



Every Nurse should read this book 

PLASTER OF PARIS AND HOW TO USE IT 

Second Edition. Revised and Enlarged 

By MARTIN W. WARE, M.D. 
Adjunct Attending Surgeon Mount Sinai Hospital, New York, Surgeon to the Good 
Samaritan Dispensary; Instructor in Surgery New York 
Post-Graduate Medical School. 
This is one of the most useful books ever presented, not only on account 
of the general demand for the information and instruction upon the 
subject which this book so explicitly, practically and comprehensively 
covers, but because this knowledge was not previously available except 
from such a large experience as enjoyed by Dr. Ware, or, in part, by 
reference to many books on allied subjects. 

It is a concise narrative, PROFUSELY ILLUSTRATED, of the many uses to which 
Plaster of Paris is adaptable in Surgery. 

The whole subject, from the making of the bandage to its use as a support in every 
form of splint, corset or dressing, is graphically described and illustrated. 

The book ia presented in the artistic manner characteristic of the pro- 
ductions of the Surgery Publishing Company. 

It is printed upon coated book paper, and attractively bound in 
heavy blue buckram, stamped in white leaf and gold. Price, $1.00, 
Postpaid. 90 illustrations. 

Special Edition de Luxe, ooze leather, gold edges and stamped, $2,50. 

"This little book gives in a comprehensive way the various uses in which 
Plaster of Paris may be put by the surgeon. The subject is clearly presented, 
and with the illustrations, the book makes a manual of instruction"— Journa/ 

of The American Medical Association. 



"The book will be a help to the student or practitioner unfamiliar with 
the thousand and one ways in which plaster bandage may be most conven- 
iently used." — Surgery, Gynecology and Obstetrics, 



1000 SURGICAL SUGGESTIONS 

By DR. WALTER M. BRICKNER 

Assistant Adjunct Surgeon Mount Sinai Hospital, and Chief of Surgical Department 

Mount Sinai Hospital Dispensary, New York; Editor-in-Chief 

American Journal of Surgery, 

AND 
DR. E. MOSCHCOWITZ 
Assistant Physician Mount Sinai Hospital Dispensary, New York; 
Associate Editor American Journal of Surgery. 
In this, the fourth edition, while we could not improve the quality, 
we have increased the number of "Suggestions," making this book, we 
believe, the most complete, practical and useful manual of surgical sugges- 
tions, practical diagnostic hints and useful therapeutic wrinkles ever 
produced. 

Regular Edition, cloth, Semi de Luxe, Stamped in gold. Printed upon 
heavy india tint paper, with Cheltenham type, marginal headings in con- 
trasting ink. 

Price, $1.00, Postpaid 
Special Full Library Edition de Luxe, limp ooze leather binding, 
artistically lined, stamped in gold, with gold edges, $2.25, postpaid. 

"They are of practical character, and the surgeon as well as the general 
practitioner may peruse them with profit."— j y^iu York State Medical Journal. 

"Will prove practically invaluable to every physician practicing major 
and minor surgery, as well as to the general practitioner as an aidin surgical 

diagnosis. A veritable store house."— A'eiy York Medical Journal, 

SURGERY PUBLISHING CO. 

J. MacDONALD, Jr., M.D., President, 92 William St., N.Y.. U.S.A. 



513 



GALEN HALL 

by the Sea 
ATLANTIC CITY, N. J. 

HOTEL AND SANATORIUM 




Resident physician and Nurses. Diet Kitchen also 
Bath Department giving 60 varieties of Tonic and 
Curative Baths. 



GALEN HALL 

in the Mountains 
WERNERSVILLE, PA. 




A First Class Hotel with the advantages of a Sana- 
torium. Resident physician and Baths, under same 
management as Atlantic City. 



513 



Of Interest to the Super= 
intendent and Nurse 

JOURNAL COMBINATION OFFERS 

THE FOLLOWING OFFERS APPLY y 

TO NEW SUBSCRIBERS ONLY J"V 

THE TRAINED NURSE ($2.00) and one ' f, 

copy of Pattee's "PRACTICAL DIE= 
TETICS" ($1.50) $3.00 

THE AMERICAN JOURNAL OF NURS- 
ING ($2.00) and one copy of Pattee's 
"PRACTICAL DIETETICS" ($1.50).. $3.25 

THE DIETETIC AND HYGIENIC GA- 
ZETTE ($1.00) and one copy of Pattee's 
"PRACTICAL DIETETICS" ($1.50).. $2.00 

THE CANADIAN NURSE ($1.25) and 
one copy of Pattee's "PRACTICAL 
DIETETICS" ($1.50) $2.25 

THE NURSE'S JOURNAL OF THE 
PACIFIC COAST ($1.50) and one copy 
of Pattee's "PRACTICAL DIE- 
TETICS" ($1.50) $2.50 

THE NATIONAL HOSPITAL RECORD 

($1.25) and one copy of Pattee's "PRAC- 
TICAL DIETETICS" ($1.50) $2.50 

A. F. Pattee 

134 South First Avenue 
Mt. Vernon, N. Y 



514 



TRADE (^AVOL) "*f"< 

A NECESSITY IN EVERY HOME 

^"^ SICK ROOM 




Cautery Sets 
Commode Seat 
Complexion Bulb 
Dental Dam 
Diapers 
Dilators 
Cupj}ing Cups 
Sanitary Covers 
Sheeting^ 

Stomach Evacuator 
Stomach Tubes 
Stoppers 
Breast Pipes 
Breast Pumps 
Breast Shields 
Face Hoods 



Face Bottles 

Finger Cots 

Fountain Syrioc-e Bairs 

Teething Pads * 

Teething Rings 

Vaporizers 

Water Bags 

Water Beds 

Water Bottles 

Water Caps 

Woman's Delight 

Tourniquets 

Tubing 

Turkish Bath Cushions 

Umbilical Belts 



DAVOL 



TRADE MARK 



"HOUSEHOLD" 

(registcred) 



RUBBER 
GOODS 



Urinals 
Rectal Tubes 
Bathing Caps 



WE make everything for the "Household ", 
in Rubber Goods and the largest and best, 
line of Atomizers on the market. 



'Bulb Enemas 
Bed Pans 
.Throat Water Baf 



Insist on having a DAVOL WATER BOTTLE . 

and a DAVOL FOUNTAIN SYRINGE and 

NOT-" SOMETHING JUST AS GOOD" 



Syringe Pipes 

Syringe Shut Offs 

Syringe Tubing 

Syringes— Aural 

Syringes— Bag 

Syringes— Bulb 

Syringes— Combined Fountain 

Syringes — Eye and Ear 

Syringes— Fountain 

Syringes— Gem 

Sjnringes — Infant 

Syringes— Ladies 

Syringes— Nasal 

Syringes -Rectal 

Syringes— Six-Ounce Bulb 

Syringes— Urethral 

Syringes— 171 cer and Ear 

Syringes- Vaginal Douche' 

Abdominal Coils , 

Air Beds . '^^'^ t-"""- w*^ "amc /p-^iw^p 

Air Pillows IS on every article you V jjMVVU , 

AtonSzers- purchase for home use. trademark 



Gem Cleansers 

Gloves 

Head Coils 

Hospital Cushions 

Hospital Air Cushions ' 

Household Syringes 

Hqjpsehold Ladies* Syringe 

Household Vaginal Douche 

Ice Bags 

Ice Caps 

Invalid Rii^s 

Irrigating Tubes 

Kelly's Operating Cushions 
i Kidney Pads 
'Indies' Syringes 
'Medicine Droppers 

Marsh Patented Finger Pads 
for counting money or papers 

SEE that the Name 



.ORX>SR FROM VOX7B. X>R.UGOIST 



Neck Pillow 
Nipple Shields 
Nipples 

Nursing Bottle Fittings 
Nursery Sheeting 
Obstetrical Cushions 
Chair Cushions 
Chemists' Covers 
Chemists' Culture Caps 
Chemists' Stoppers 
■ Colon Tubes 
Pessaries 
Pile Pipe 
Pill9w Vents 
Plant Sprinklers 
Plaster Bowls 
Politzer Bags 
Powder Blowers 
Bandage Gum 
'Bandages 
Barbers' Bibs 
Barbers' Atomizers 
Basin, Folding 
Bath Tubs 
^Batb Spray 



DAVOL RUBBER COMPANY 



MANUFACTURERS OF 

STRICTLY HIGH-GRADE RUBBER GOODS FOR THE * 
PROVIDENCE, R. I., U. S. A. 

515 



'HOUSEHOLD" 



fiingham for Nurses' Uniforms 




A. F. PATTEE 
134 South First Avenue Mount Vernon, N. Y. 

516 



"NO OIL TO SOIL" 




HOWARD 



EXTENSION HANDLE 
DUSTER 



MADE WITH FINE QUALITY LONG FIBRE COTTON 
WILL WEAR FOR YEARS 

THE LAST WORD IN DUSTLESS DUSTERS 

Howard Extension Handle Dusters 

Will dust where no other handle duster can reach. Covers 
more surface than any other duster made. Will dust equally 
well Furniture, Floors, Walls or Ceilings; under and around 
Radiators without stooping. Treated with our exclusive 
process. CLEAN AND STERILIZE WITH HOT 
WATER AND SOAP. 

„„y„„ ■ , ■• ., £ . . • u ji r House size $1.25 
PRICE, mcludmg three-foot extension handle |j^_^;,^^,^ ^-^^ 5j_7g 

The Howard Dusters are used in more than 500 Schools in 

U. S. 

They are the Government Standard and the Standard of 

the world. 

St. Louis School Board have ordered 20,000. 

12 Different Styles for all purposes. 

Send for Dust-book and Small free sample 
Look (or the Red Diamond Trade Mark 

HOWARD 



HOWARD DUSTLESS-DUSTER CO. 

200 SUMMER STREET BOSTON, MASS. 

517 



B 5B5B5HSa5H5H5H5E5B5g5B5g5g5a5S5B5E5BSa a 



g 







West, North or Northwest 

C[ Be sure your tickets read via the 
^ Chicago and North Western 
Railway, the pioneer line west and 

northwest of Chicago. 

^ A through train service of recog- 
^ nized superiority is maintained, 
that includes modernly equipped fast daily trains to the impor- 
tant cities in the West, North and Northwest and also to all 
the famous ocenic attractions found in 'Wisconsin, Northern 
Michigan, Minnesota, the Black Hills, Yellowstone National 
Park, Yosemite National Park, Colorado, Utah, California, 
Oregon, Waehington and the Pacific Northwest. 

Low Round Trip Summer Fares 

fll The palatial neiv Passenger Terminal in Chicago — is par- 
^ ticularly adapted in many ways to the convenience of 
parties on extended tours. 

The Best of Everything 

Chicago and 
North Western Railway 

A. C. JOHNSON C. A. CAIRNS 
P. T. M. G. P. & T. A. 

Chicago. 111. 

NWa838 



E5E5E5ESE5S5H5H5E5g5g5E5H5E5S5g5B5a5g5 I 




518 




Do Yott Play 
Solitaire? 

THE SMITH 
SOLITAIRE BOARD 

Can be used anywhere 
and in any position. 

No Table Needed 



The cards ate 
held securely 
in place and yet 
can be moved 
with ease. 




Can be used in 
bed. 

In a hammock. 

On the train. 

On the deck of 
a steamer. 

A luxury for 
the well and a 
necessity for the 
sick and con- 
valescent. 



Price $2.00 

Express prepaid 

For further particulars 
write to 

The Smith Solitaire 
Board Co. 

7600 Wornall Road 
KANSAS CITY, MO. 




519 



Pattee's 
Hand=Bag Diet Book 

Consisting of 

Measures and Weights, Recipes 
and Hospital Dietaries 

REPRINTED FROM 

Pattee's "Practical Dietetics with 
Reference to Diet in Disease" 

IN response to requests from a large number 
of nurses these extracts from the Pattee's 
"Practical Dietetics with Reference to Diet 
in Disease" have been collated into a small book, 
suitable for the nurse's hand-bag. 

It is bound in heavy paper and is sold only 
to nurses, purchasers of the complete edition. 
Those who do not purchase both the complete 
book and the Hand-Bag Diet Book at the same 
time can obtain the latter only when the coupon 
on the opposite page is forwarded to the publisher 
or bookseller from whom book was purchased 
and is accompanied by the nurse's professional 
card or hospital order and the price of the 
book. Orders will not be filled unless these 
instructions are followed. 

Price of Pattee's "Practical Dietetics" ($1.50 
postpaid) with one copy Pattee's Hand-Bag Diet 
-Book, $1.75 postpaid. 

This booklet is not published for general circula- 
tion, simply for the convenience of the nurse for 
her hand-bag equipment. 

520 



COUPON 



The possession of this coupon entitles any 
nurse to the right to purchase one copy of Pattee's 
Hand-Bag Diet Book. 

Send this coupon with your professional card 
or hospital order and 30 cents to the publisher or to 
the bookdealer from whom the book was purchased, 
and a copy will be forwarded postpaid. 

A. F. PATTEE, Publisher 
Mount Vernon New York 



Name 

Address- 



521 



INDEX TO SUPPLIES 

FOR THE 

HOSPITAL— HOME— PHYSICIAN— NURSE 

FOODS: 

Cox's Gelatine 495 

Crackers— Bent's Water Crackers, Cracknels, N. B. C. Gra- 
ham Crackers, N. B. C. Oatmeal Crackers, Uneeda Bis- 
cuits, Water Thins, N. B. C. Zwieback 481 

Dr. Brush's Kumyss '. 490-491 

Horstord's Acid Phosphate 478 

Horlick's Malted Milk 487 

Hoyt's Gum Gluten 488-497 

Jell-O 483 

Junket 480 

Junket Brand Buttermilk Tablets 480 

Lactopeptine 492 

Laibose 482 

Liquid Peptonoids 492 

Mellin's Food 463 

Minute Tapioca 484 

Nicelle Olive Oil 489 

Panopepton 482 

Peptonising Tubes 482 

Preserves, etc.. Home-made 486 

Rumford Baking Powder 446 

Sanatogen 493 

Walter Baker's Breakfast Cocoa 477 

Welch's Grape Juice 485 

MISCELLANEOUS SUPPLIES: 

Borolyptol 492 

Chicago & North Western Railway 518 

Coupon for Pattee's Handbag Diet Book 521 

Coward Shoe 503 

"Davol" Rubber Company 515 

Dietitians' Registry 500 

Dix-Make Uniforms 501 

Excelsior Quilted Mattress Pads 508 

Fellow's Syrup of the Hypophosphites 479 

Galen Hall 513 

Gazette Pocket Speller 49g 

Gingham for Nurses' Uniforms 516 

"Hand-I-Hold" Babe Mits .' . . ' 504 

Home Bureau 502 

Howard Dustless Duster 517 

Hygeia Nursing Bottle 505 

Institution Recipes [ 494 

Journal Combination Offer '.]'.'.'. 514 

Mennen's Toilet Powder 5II 

"Neal" Bath Tub for Children '.'.'.'..'. 510 

Packer's Tar Soap '\\ 464 

Pattee's Handbag Diet Book ' ' 520 

Pennsylvania Orthopaedic Institute and School of Mechaiio- 

Therapy 499 

"Smith" Solitaire Board 519 

"Storm" Binder and Abdominal Supporter \[[[ 5q9 

Surgery Publishing Company .'.'.'.' 512 

The Surgical Assistant ' 506 

Vapo-Cresolene ] 50Y 

By writing to the above firms useful literature and samples will 
be forwarded upon request. In writing mention Pattee's Practical 
Dietetics and prompt attention will be given to your letter. 

522 



