rmrrs 



'■AM^^i^:^iAMi^4: .^^^^..-^.'X.i^.kJlA, Jt^tf^k. . 



^^ jl FIRST-BOOKS nr 



■00 



g5 iiPHYSiOLUiiY'Ai\Dli!(jiL 

¥ ¥ -r 

C Ai 




j^i' 



!co \f 




I 
I 

h 

l\ 

I 



iiii 



I 




s 



f,i i 






i 


iij 



«. r»w , »v; ■■ j ^ ^ ^ T f Uq/jijmj^.u^ij fTr 



j x« 3 ag> ' Ji rp *-Km -''i 



Digitized by tine Internet Archive 

in 2007 with funding from 

IVIicrosoft Corporation 



http://www.archive.org/details/firstbookofphysiOOcathuoft 



FIRST BOOKS OF SCIENCE 



FIRST BOOK OF ' 



PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE 



jm><^ 



MACMILLAN AND CO., Limited 

LONDON . BOMBAY • CALCUTTA 

MELBOURNE 

THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 

NEW YORK • BOSTON • CHICAGO 
DALLAS • SAN FRANCISCO 

THE MACMILLAN CO. OF CANADA, Ltd 

TORONTO 



C ' FIRST BOOK OF 

PHYSIOLOGY AND 
HYGIENE 



BY 



GERTRUDE D. CATHCART 

M.B., B.Sc. (Glas.), D.P.H. (Camb.) 



WITH 65 ILLUSTRATIONS 






/ 



MACMILLAN AND CO., LIMITED 

ST. MARTIN'S STREET, LONDON 

1914 



COPYRIGHT 



PREFACE, 

When the author undertook the preparation of a little book 
in which the outlines of Physiology and Hygiene should be 
presented in a simple and attractive form, the task did not 
seem so difficult as it has proved to be. Feeling that some- 
thing more was necessary than merely to string the manifold 
facts together, loosely like so many beads, an attempt was 
made to give them a more coherent form by grouping them 
round certain central ideas which made an appeal to the 
imagination. Such a method promised to arouse the interest 
of young readers, and at the same time to furnish them with 
a framework into which knowledge afterwards acquired 
could be fitted. Small though the measure of success in 
this direction may be, it is hoped that the book will be of 
some value to junior students. Simple language has been 
used throughout and technical terms have been avoided, so 
far as possible. The main ideas have been emphasized by 
a certain amount of repetition, which serves to impress them 
upon the mind and at the same time presents the subject in 
true perspective. 

It is a great pleasure to the author not only to express 
indebtedness to Prof. R. A. Gregory for his valuable 
advice and criticism, but also to offer sincere thanks to 
Mr. A. T, Simmons for his help and suggestions. 



vi PREFACE 

Acknowledgment must also be made to the Delegates of 
Local Examinations, Oxford, and the Syndics of Local 
Examinations, Cambridge, for permission to print a selection 
of questions from papers set in their Examinations in 
Physiology and Hygiene. 

GERTRUDE D. CATHCART. 

August, 1 9 14. 



CONTENTS. 



CHAP. PAGE 

I. Parts of the Body and their Functions - - i 

II. The Body as a Society of Cells - - - 12 

III. The Skeleton ■------. -20 

IV. Food-Stuffs - - 29 

V. Digestion 27 

VI. Cooking „ . . 46 

VII. The Circulation of the Blood 55 

VIII. Respiration - 65 

IX. Excretion So 

X. The Muscular System 88 

XI. The Nervous System 98 

XII. The Ear and Eye ic6 

XIII. Hygiene of the Skin, Hair, and Teeth - - iiS 

XIV. Body Heat and Clothing 125 

XV. Muscular Exercise — Gymnastics. Rest. Sleep 134 

XVI. Micro-Organisms 146 

Index- - - 153 



Fig. 3. Coloured Plate 



Facing page 6 



CHAPTER I 

PARTS OF THE BODY AND THEIR FUNCTIONS 

The enemies of health. — Health is a treasure which 
is often not appreciated by those who possess it, and it is 
often in danger from our ignorance and carelessness. The 
world is by no means a safe place to live in ; we have to 
protect ourselves from extremes of heat and cold and from 
starvation, while on all sides we are surrounded by invisible 
foes — the disease germs. Indeed, our life may be regarded 
as a never-ending adventure. There are dragons to be 
destroyed, which are no less grim and death-dealing than the 
fire and brimstone dragons of our story books ; amongst 
them are overcrowding, impure water, bad ventilation and 
overwork. If we are of a sporting disposition, we are in for 
a fight, and the question is how we are to win. We must 
certainly learn all we can about our enemies : in some cases 
a direct attack may be best, while in others we may be able 
to starve them out. We must adopt the most up-to-date 
wea[)ons which modern science can give us, and we must 
husband our resources in every possible way. 

Disease germs have only been discovered since the de- 
velopment of science gave us the microscope, which enor- 
mously increased our power of seeing. Disease germs always 
make a direct attack, but they have powerful allies, such as 
overwork, improper feeding, impure air, etc., which weaken 
our resistance and make us fall a ready prey to disease. 



2 FIRST BOOK OF PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE 

Hygiene. — Hygiene is the branch of science which is 
concerned with the preservation of health ; it teaches us 
about the dangers to health and how to avoid them. It is 
like a good fairy which looks after man's well-being and 
prevents him from squandering his treasure of health. 

We must remember that health is a national as well as an 
individual treasure. A strong and vigorous nation can only 
be made up of strong and healthy citizens ; and it is a 
national duty to live in accordance with the laws of hygiene. 

All hygiene is based on a knowledge of the Physiology 
and Anatomy of the human body. Physiology is the science 
which deals with the functions of the various parts of the 
body, and Anatomy tells us about its structure. If the 
human body be compared to a steam engine, Anatomy would 
teach us of what parts it was made up, while Physiology 
would explain how the various parts worked and what made 
the engine go. 

Now the essential feature of a steam engine is that it con- 
verts one kind of energy, called chemical energy, into 
mechanical energy, or work ; but there are a series of com- 
plicated processes which take place before the engine really 
does work. In the first place, the engine must be fed with 
fuel, in the form of coal, oil or gas, which supplies the 
energy to be transformed into work. These substances have 
great stores of so-called chemical energy locked up in them ; 
when they burn their carbon combines with the oxygen of 
the air to form other chemical bodies, mainly carbon dioxide. 
In so doing the chemical energy is liberated ; it is chemical 
energy no longer, for it has been converted into heat energy. 
This heat makes the water in the boiler boil, i.e. the water is 
converted into steam, and as steam is a gas, it takes up much 
more room than when it was in the form of water. When 
water is continually being converted into steam, and this 
steam is not allowed to expand, by being kept in a closed 
vessel, it exerts pressure on the sides of the containing 



PARTS OF THE BODY AND THEIR FUNCTIONS 3 



Brain 
Case 




Fig. I. — ^The Human Skeleton. 



4 FIRST BOOK OF PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE 

vessel. In the steam engine this pressure is made use of 
to force a piston along a cylinder, and then we have the 
energy appearing as mechanical energy. 

The human body seems very unlike a steam engine at 
first sight, but as a matter of fact it may be regarded as a 
living engine for the conversion of chemical energy into 
mechanical energy and heat. The food we take is the fuel, 
which is mainly composed of complicated carbon compounds 
containing stores of chemical energy. By combustion of the 
food, these carbon compounds combine with the oxygen of 
the air and break up to form simpler bodies, and the 
chemical energy liberated in the process is converted into 
muscular work and heat. Combustion in the living engine 
is not so rapid as in the steam engine, and so it is not accom- 
panied by flame, but the process is essentially the same. 

Let us now study briefly the works and the working of the 
human engine. 

The build of the body. — In considering how the body 
is built up, we may begin with the skeleton, which is the 
bony supporting framework. The bones provide attachment 
for the muscles, and also serve to protect certain very 
delicate organs, such as the brain. This bony framework is 
clothed with muscles — the so-called flesh. The muscles 
vary greatly in size and shape ; they are sometimes thick 
and fleshy, as in the calf, while at other times they are 
spread out in thin sheets, as in the trunk wall. The 
muscles are either attached directly to the bones or in- 
directly by means of tendons. When a muscle contracts it 
becomes shorter and thicker, and, as the ends are fixed, it 
thus produces movement of limbs or body. 

There are two very important cavities in the body which 
contain all the organs concerned with the digestion of food, 
the circulation of the blood, and respiration or breathing. 
They are separated by a dome-shaped muscle called the 
diaphragm. The upper cavity, known as the chest or 



PARTS OF THE BODY AND THEIR FUNCTIONS 5 




Fig. 2. — Diagram of the Main Arteries. 
a. Right side of the heart. 



(Pulmonary arteries not represented.) 



b. Left side of the heart. 
c. Main artery of the upper limb. d. Main artery of the lower limb. 

e. Main artery of the head and neck. 



6 FIRST BOOK OF PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE 

thorax, contains the heart and lungs and the first part of 
the digestive canal; the lower cavity, called the abdomen, 
contains the rest of the food canal, the liver, pancreas and 
spleen, together with the kidneys and the reproductive 
organs. 

The circulatory system. — This is made up of a power- 
ful muscular pump called the heart and a series of tubes called 
blood-vessels. When the heart contracts it drives the blood 
into two large vessels, which repeatedly divide into smaller 
and smaller vessels, carrying the blood to every part of the 
body. These vessels carrying the blood from the heart are 
called arteries ; another series of vessels called veins carry 
the blood back to the heart. The arteries and veins are 
connected in the tissues by a very fine network of the finest 
blood-vessels called capillaries. The veins, which are very 
numerous, join one another, until finally, when close to the 
heart, there are only four great veins to pour their blood 
into the heart each time it relaxes. 

The heart drives the blood in a never-ceasing stream 
round and round the body ; this is what is meant by the 
circulation of the blood. There is really a double circula- 
tion, for the heart contains four chambers, two on the right 
side and the two on the left, and there is no communication 
between the two sides. The left side of the heart pumps 
blood into the limbs and all over the body except to the 
lungs. This blood is returned to the right side of the heart, 
and is then driven to the lungs to be aerated ; from the 
lungs it flows back to the left side of the heart, and is ready 
to be sent to the limbs again. 

The respiratory system consists of the two lungs and 
the windpipe which connects the lungs with the outer air. 
The windpipe divides into two when it reaches the chest, 
and each branch then breaks up into innumerable little 
air-tubes, round which are clustered myriads of tiny thin- 
walled sacs, or air-cells. As the chest expands air rushes 



Capillary network 
in head. 



Capillary network 
in lungs. 



Capillary network^ 
in liver. 




illary network 
in intestine. 



Ilary netv/crk 
limbs. 



Fig. 3. — Diagram of the Circulation of tfie Blood. 
The arrows point in the direction in which the blood is flowing. 
The arterial blood is coloured red and the impure venous blood is 
coloured blue. 



To face page 6. 



PARTS OF THE BODY AND THEIR FUNCTIONS 7 

into the tiny sacs, dilating them, only to be forced out again 
when the chest contracts. In this way there is a constant 
change of air in the lungs. Now the wall of each air-sac is 
very little more than a network of the finest blood-vessels, 
and the blood is separated from the air by the thinnest of 



collar boTie 

arlerf/ 16 lunges 
acrla 



rib 



righA 

LuTlff\ 




Fig. 4. — The Heart and Lungs in position in the Thorax, 



partitions. The blood has come from the tissues laden 
with a gas called carbon dioxide, which it wants to get rid 
of, so it gives this up to the air and takes back in exchange 
some of the oxygen of the air. The blood is now said to 
be aerated. 

The digestive system. — This consists of a very long 
tube which communicates with the outer air by the mouth 
above and by an opening called the anus below. This tube 



8 FIRST BOOK OF PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE 

is dilated to form the stomach, and then it is coiled on itself 
again and again. Into this tube are poured the digestive 
juices from neighbouring glands and from the walls of the 





Fig. 5. — The Alimentary Canal. 



tube itself. The digestive tube represents the kitchen of 
the establishment ; here all the food is reduced to the 
liquid state and is made suitable for absorption into the 



PARTS OF THE BODY AND THEIR FUNCTIONS q- 

tissues. After all the nutriment has been extracted from 
the food, the residue is removed from the body by the lower 
part of the tube as faeces. The liver and the pancreas are 
the two most important glands connected with the digestive 
tract. 

The excretory system.— The kidneys belong to the 
so-called excretory system; they remove from the blood 




1 

I 



Fig. 6. — The Kidneys, Ureters (the tubes connecting the kidneys 
with the bladder), and Bladder, with the blood-vessels connected with 
the kidneys. The bladder is shewn cut open to expose its interior. 

waste products which arise from the incomplete combus- 
tion of the food, and then wash them out into the bladder 
by secreting a watery fluid called the urine. 

The skin is another excretory organ, for the sweat which 
it secretes always contains w^aste products. The skin is 
useful in another way, as it forms a protective covering for 
the body and prevents drying of the tissues. 

The nervous system. — The brain, spinal cord and 
nerves form the nervous system, which is the great con- 
trolling and regulating mechanism of the body. Like the 
blood-vessels, the nerves travel to every part of the body ; 
they are similar to telegraph wires and are perpetually carrying 



lo FIRST BOOK OF PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE 




Fig. 7. — Diagram of the Nervous System, showing the Brain, Spinal Cord 
and Nerves. 



PARTS OF THE BODY AND THEIR FUNCTIONS ii 

messages to and from the various parts of the body. 
The brain represents the head office, where complaints and 
requests are received, and from which commands are issued. 
Reproductive system.^Certain organs are set apart in 
the body for the reproduction of the species and for the 
continuation of the human race. They differ in the male 
and female ; and by the union of a cell from the male with 
one from^ the female reproductive organs, the egg cell is 
formed which develops into the new individual. 

QUESTIONS ON CHAPTER I 

1. How may the body be compared with a steam engine ? 

2. What is meant by the circulation of the blood, and how is 
the blood kept moving ? 

3. Where is the blood aerated and by what means is it 
carried out ? 

4. How does the body get rid of its waste products ? 

5. Describe the food canal. 

6. What is the function of the nervous system ? 



CHAPTER II 

THE BODY AS A SOCIETY OF CELLS 

The body as a society of cells.— When the microscope 
was invented, it was as if man had suddenly been presented 
with magic spectacles. When he put these on, he was in 
quite a different sort of world, teaming with new and 





Fig. 8. — Amoeba and Food Particle. 
The latter has been completely engulfed in the last figure. 

beautiful things. One of the things found was a little 
creature called the Amoeba, which looked like a little 
irregular lump of jelly ; when watched carefully it was seen 
that the amoeba could move itself by altering its shape and 
by slowly pushing out a bit of the jelly-like stuff; it was as 
if the jelly had slowly flowed over the ground. Another 
interesting thing noticed was that if a particle of food lay 



THE BODY AS A SOCIETY OF CELLS 13 

near, the amoeba managed to flow round it and surround 
it, and gradually the food particle disappeared; the food 
had evidently been eaten by the amoeba in this curious 
fashion. It was also noticed that the amoeba was able to 
divide into two, and that after this division, each of the two 
parts lived a life of its own, i.e. the amoeba had divided into 
two daughter amoebae. 

Now this tiny living being is what is called a cell ; the 
jelly-like substance of which it is composed is called proto- 
plasm. Part of this protoplasm has a different appearance 
from the rest; it is gathered into a rounded form and is 
called the nucleus. The amoeba may be compared to a 
man on a desert island who has to do everything for him- 
self ; he must find his own food, make his own clothes, and 
build his own house without help from any other creature. 

AV^hen people began to examine the structure of the 
human body with the microscope, the fascinating discovery 
was made that it is built up of tiny cells, some of which are 
like the amoeba, but most of which are very different in 
shape. By degrees it was found that the body is really a 
society of cells, and that instead of each cell being like the 
primitive amoeba, division of labour had come in, certain 
cells being set apart to perform certain functions for the 
rest of the body. The cells are frequently grouped together 
in organs ; they vary very much in form according to the 
particular kind of work they perform ; it is just as if the 
different guilds of workers wore different uniforms. 

In considering how this society of cells has grown up, we 
must remember that every living being is developed from a 
single cell, the germ or egg cell. It is by the repeated 
division of this cell that the complicated organism grows ; 
as it grows certain cells becoipe grouped together to form 
special organs or tissues ; they begin to assume their 
characteristic shape and are gradually fitted for their 
particular work. 



14 FIRST BOOK OF PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE 

The nerve cells. — Let us now consider some of the 
most important workers in this society of cells called man. 

We will begin with the most highly trained workers — the 
nerve cells — which have to carry messages and commands 




Fig. 9. — A Nerve Cell from the Cerebellum. (Luciani). 

to and from all parts of the body. We have already said 
that they form a great telegraph system, the brain being 
their headquarters ; the branch stations are placed all along 
the spinal cord. The wires are never free ; there is a 



THE BODY AS A SOCIETY OF CELLS 15 

constant exchange of reports and messages, many of which 
are not sent on to headquarters, but are dealt with by the 
branch offices. Complaints of overwork, of injury, or of 
danger are all telegraphed to the brain, which is also the 
great administrative centre, as it issues the necessary 





Fig. 10. — Different types of Nerve Cells. 

commands and regulates the food supplies and their trans- 
port to the tissues. 

Some of these nerve cells have the weirdest shapes ; they 
are like leafless trees, with very long thin trunks. The 
branches break up into the finest twigs, which interlace with 
the branches of neighbouring trees ; it is these long drawn- 
out trunks which form the nerves. Other nerve cells are 



i6 FIRST BOOK OF PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE 

rounded or triangular in shape, but they too are provided 
with branches ; one can picture the lightning-like rapidity 
Avith which the messages leap from branch to branch. 
There are enormous numbers of these triangular nerve cells 
grouped together in the brain. 

The muscle cells. — The next class of workers to be 
considered are the labourers and engineers, or the muscle 
cells. Not only do they pump the blood night and day to 





Fig. II. — Muscle Cells. 

a. Striped or voluntary muscle fibre. b. Muscle fibres from the heart. 

c. Unstriped or involuntary muscle fibres. 

every corner of the body, but they also push the food along 
the great food tract. A muscle cell possesses the power of 
changing its shape like its ancestor the amoeba, but it car^ 
only change it in one way. It becomes shorter and thicker, 
when the muscle contracts, after which it returns to its 
original shape. 

Amongst the muscle cells themselves division of labour 
has stepped in, and each guild has a slightly different uniform. 
The striped muscle cells make up the limb and trunk 
muscles ; they do the heavy work of the community, by means 
of a system of levers, as we shall see later.' The unstriped 



THE BODY AS A SOCIETY OF CELLS 



17 



muscle fibres are arranged in thin sheets in the walls of the 
great food canal. They squeeze and push the food along 
and finally eject the waste material ; they also form auto- 
matically-acting doors at each end of the stomach and at the 
lower end of the food canal. Lastly, the heart muscle cells 
resemble the striped muscle fibres in being striped, but they 
are very much shorter than 
the latter, and in this re- 
spect are more like the 
unstriped cells. They are 
some of the most inde- 
fatigable workers in the 
whole body, for they never 
cease pumping the blood 
day and night, and the 
little muscle cell contracts 
and relaxes about seventy 
times a minute. 

The blood cells.— The 

blood cells are another 
very important guild ; un- 
like the other cells they 
are not built into tissues 
but float in the great water- 
ways of the body, e.g, the 
veins and arteries. These 
blood cells are of two 
kinds, the red and white. 




Fig. 12. — Red Blood Cells. (Luciani.) 



It is to the red cells that the 
blood owes its beautiful colour ; they are little rounded discs 
and are far more numerous than the white cells. They are 
extremely important, for they carry oxygen gas to all their 
fellow-workers, and this gas is almost like an elixir of life 
without which no cell can live. Oxygen gas is seized by the red 
blood cells as they rush along the network of canals in the 
lungs ; when they reach the tissues they give up the oxygen to 
c.i'.n. B 



1 8 FIRST BOOK OF PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE 

them and take away in exchange a harmful gas called carbon 
dioxide, which they get rid of in the lungs. 

The white blood cells are comparatively scarce, and they 
have a distinct family resemblance to the amoeba ; they too 
can alter their shape, and indeed can squeeze through 
incredibly small holes in the walls of the blood canals. They 
really constitute a sort of police, and deal summarily with 
marauders by devouring them. The bodies of disease germs 
may sometimes be seen to have been engulfed in this way. 

The blood-vessels form a huge system of water-ways, the 
current flowing rapidly in the large streams and more slowly 
in the smaller ones and in the close network of canals into 





Fig. 13.— Gland Cells. Fig. 14.— Bone Cell. 

which the big streams divide. The cells all over the body 
make constant use of the water-ways ; their wares and their 
rubbish are both thrown into the current, which is also 
laden with the necessary food-stuffs. 

The gland cells.— Another guild of workers are grouped 
together in the glands. There are many different kinds of 
glands in the body; some are invisible to the naked eye 
and are embedded in the skin or mucous membranes, but 
others are large enough to form important organs. The 
cells of the gland manufacture a lubricating or digestive 
fluid, which is called the secretion of the gland. The larger 
glands are provided with special ducts or canals which carry 
the secretion to the required place. 

There are glands which perform other functions, but we 
are not concerned with them in the present outline. 



THE BODY AS A SOCIETY OF CELLS 19 

The cells of the kidney are scavengers, and are continually 
removing waste matters from the blood and pouring them 
away in the urine. If these workers strike, as they some- 
times do in disease, the whole organism suffers gravely. 

The bone cells. — These are the architects and builders 
of the community ; each cell surrounds itself with walls of 
lime, and together they build up the supporting framework 
of the body. 

QUESTIONS ON CHAPTER II 

1. What different kinds of work have to be done in the body ? 
Mention the cells which are set apart to do each kind of work. 

2. Which cells in the body resemble most closely the amoeba ? 
Say what you know about them, 

3. Write an essay on the difference between the amoeba and 
the human being. 

4. Give examples of division of labour amongst the cells of 
the body. Write an essay on the body considered as a society 
of ceils. 



CHAPTER III 

THE SKELETON 

Bone cells. — The bones which make up the framework 
of the body are all made of the same substance, but they 
are as different as possible in shape and size ; the bones of 
the nose are like delicate little leaves, while the hip bones 
are very thick and strong. You would scarcely think that 
bone is made of living tissue, that is to say, of living cells, 
but it is. The little bone cells are imprisoned in stony walls 
of lime ; the lime is porous, however, and is riddled with 
minute canals by means of which the bone cells are 
nourished. 

When a bone is broken, the bone cells immediately set 
to work to repair the damage ; they begin to build layer after 
layer of a soft cement substance called callus, which they 
saturate little by little with Hme until the two ends of the 
bone are firmly knit together once more. Sometimes in 
delicate children, who have not been properly fed and have 
not had enough sunlight, the bone cells do not do their work 
of building properly, so that the bones are soft and bend 
readily because they do not contain enough lime. 

The bones in different parts of the body.— The 
skull is made up of a great many different bones which are 
dovetailed together so firmly that the place where two bones 
join is just as strong as the bone itself In the young baby, 
however, there is a small lozenge-shaped space on the top of 



THE SKELETON 



the head where the bones have not completely grown 
together, hence a baby's head must be most carefully pro- 
tected from injury. The skull 
protects some of the most 
delicate tissues in the body ; 
it forms a casket for the brain 
— that most important of all 
organs — and at its base there 
is a round opening through 
which the spinal cord reaches 
the brain. The bones of 
the skull also provide deep 
sockets for the eyes, and the 
overhanging arches of these 
sockets protect the delicate 
eyeball from blows. But for 
these bony arches a black 
eye would be a very serious 
thing indeed, for the seeing 
part of the eye would almost 
certainly be injured, as the 
eye would receive the full 
force of the blow. 

The hearing part of the 
ear is embedded deep in 
each side of the skull, while 
what we call the ear has very 
little to do with hearing at all. 

The delicate membrane of 
smell is hidden away at the 
back of the nose, while in 
the nose itself there are delicate leaf-like bones which are 
covered with cushions of mucous membrane. 

The upper jaw with its row of cutting and grinding teeth 
is part of the skull. If you put your finger on the joint just 








Fig. 15. — Section of Bone, showing 
Bone Cells arranged in rings round the 
canals (c) which contain the blood-vessels. 
(Huxley.) 



22 FIRST BOOK OF PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE 

in front of your ear, you can feel how the lower jaw hinges 
on to it. 

The spinal column, or spine, performs two very important 
services for the body ; it forms a canal for the spinal cord, 
which is so strong that it is very rarely injured, and it 
supports the body in the upright position. It is made up of 
a series of bony rings called vertebrae, placed one upon 
the other, with a buffer between each ring made of an elastic 




Fig. 1 6. — A human rib tied in knots after removal of the mineral matter 
by acid. 

sort of tissue ; it is just as if there were a little cusliion 
between each bony ring, so that when we sit down or jump 
we never get jarred. 

The bony rings of the spine are not the same all the way 
down; the seven in. the neck are thinner and not so strong 
as those lower down, because they have only the weight of 
the head to bear. Each ring is very much thicker in fronf 
than behind; indeed if you look at the front of the spine in 
a skeleton, you will see that it forms a thick rounded 
column which is enormously strong and is a splendid 
arrangement for bearing weight. 

There are little joints between the back part of the rings 
so that each bone can move a little on the one below it. In 
moving the spine, every bone moves a little, and so the 



THE SKELETON 



23 



spine can be bent backwards, forwards and sidewards, and 
can be twisted a little C. 1. 



also. Lower down 
the rings are thicker 
and stronger ; in the 
small of the back 
they are very strong. 
The last five bones 
of the spine have 
been fused into one 
bone called the sac- 
rum ; there are four 
little bones at the 
end of the sacrum, 
which are all that 
we have of a tail. 

In front of the 
chest is the breast 
bone, which you can 
feel quite easily un- 
der the skin ; most of 
the ribs are attached 
to it. As we shall 
see later, when we 
come to respiration, 
the ribs strengthen 
the walls of the chest 
and make it barrel- 
shaped. The ribs 
are curved flattened 
bones, and are 
arranged in twelve 
pairs ; at the top of 
the chest they are 
short, while lower 




Fig. 17. — The Spine. 

A. Side view. B. Back view. C. 1-7. Vertebrae of 

the neck. S. Sacrum. C. Coccyx. (Huxley.) 



24 FIRST BOOK OF PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE 

down they slope downwards more, and are longer. Behind 
they are attached to the spinal column by a series of little 
joints, and when we breathe the ribs are hinged upwards 
and downwards at these little joints. 

In the limbs we meet with a different type of bone called 
the long bone. The upper and lower limbs are both built 
on the same plan ; there is a single long bone in the upper 
arm and in the thigh, while in the next part of the limb, i.e. 
the forearm and leg, there are two thinner bones. The 
lowest part of all, the hand and foot, each contain a number 
of little bones. There is a good deal of difference in the 



Fig. 1 8.— a Vertebral Ring. 

A . Side view. B. View from above, n. Canal for spinal cord. 

b. Body or front of the ring. 

thickness of the bones in the two cases. The bones in the 
lower limb are stronger and thicker than those of the upper 
limb, because they have to bear the weight of the body ; the 
bones of the foot show the same thing very markedly. 
There is a small bone in the strong tendon in front of the 
knee joint which is known as the knee-cap. 

Each limb is attached to the spine by means of a girdle. 
The shoulder girdle is made of the two shoulder blades and 
the two collar bones, all of which you can make out under 
the skin quite well. The collar bone is fixed to the breast 
bone at one end and to the shoulder blade at the other ; it 
is frequently broken by a fall on the point of the shoulder. 
The shoulder blade is only attached to the spine by muscles; 



THE SKELETON 25 



I 
■ 



this is because what is wanted for the upper limb is a wide 
range of movement, and that is only possible if the shoulder 
can glide over the chest wall. 

The pelvic girdle, or the girdle by which the lower 
limb is fixed to the spine, is a great contrast to the shoulder 
girdle ; it is much stronger, and it is very firmly attached to 
the sacrum — the last part of the spine. The pelvic girdle 
forms a complete bony ring, the sacrum being the back part 
of the ring and the hip bones the sides. You can feel the 
two great crests of the hip bones through the skin ; they join 
one another in front, and are fixed to the sacrum behind ; 
they are curiously shaped bones because they have great 
wings, the edges or crests of which you have felt. The 
pelvic girdle is very important ; it forms an arch which 
transmits the whole of the weight of the body to the lower 
limbs ; it also forms a shallow kind of basin which supports 
all the important organs in the abdomen. 

Joints. — Having described the bony framework of the 
body, we must inquire how the bones are joined together. 
We will consider first a movable joint such as the elbow. 
So smoothly does the joint work that you are never con- 
scious of it ; only when it is injured or inflamed is attention 
attracted to it. If you could look at the ends of the bones 
which form the joint, you would find that they were covered 
with a layer of cartilage or gristle which is smooth and 
shiny as satin. 

The bones themselves are bound together by strong bands 
of a fibrous tissue which we shall describe later in connec- 
tion with the tendons of muscles. This fibrous tissue forms 
a small sac or capsule enclosing the joint ; it is lined with a 
thin smooth shiny membrane which secretes a slimy fluid to 
lubricate the joint, so that we can understand now why the 
joint works so smoothly. When the joint gets injured or 
inflamed, the slippery lining membrane gets roughened, and 
then the joint can often be heard to creak. 



26 FIRST BOOK OF PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE 



All the joints of the limbs are of this movable type, 
though the kind of movement varies. The elbow is called 
a hinge joint, because it only allows backward and forward 
movements ; the knee is another hinge joint, and so are the 
finger joints. 

On the other hand, the shoulder and hip joints belong to 
the ball and socket type, in which the head of one bone fits 
into a rounded socket in the other ; such a joint allows a 

much wider range of move- 
ment than the hinge joint. 

There are in the body many 
immovable joints which are 
of quite a different type from 
the above. All the bones in the 
skull are dovetailed together, 
as w^e have seen ; and the 
bones are only separated from 
each other by a layer of fibrous 
tissue. The bones of the 
spine are joined together by 
pads of a soft gristly sub- 
stance, which is a sort of 
cartilage ; this allows a very 
little movement to take place 
between the bony rings. This 
kind of joint is thus not so entirely unlike the joints 
of the limbs -as are the joints between the bones of the 
skull. 

Just as there is a danger of the bones getting broken, so 
there is a danger of a joint being dislocated, i.e. of the two 
ends of the bones forming the joint getting out of position. 
This would happen much more often were it not that the 
joint is nearly always clothed and strengthened by the 
muscles which surround it. 




Fig. 19. — The upper end of the 
Thigh Bone (a) in its socket in the hip 
bone, which is sawn through to show 
the nature of the joint. 



THE SKELETON 27 



PRACTICAL EXERCISES 

1. Place a bone from a chicken or rabbit in a jar and cover it 
with a weak solution of hydrochloric acid (strength i of acid to 7 
of water). After some days the bone will be quite soft because 
the acid will have dissolved all the lime ; the bone can then be 
bent easily. 

2. Buy a pennyworth of bones from the butcher and boil 
them for four or five hours in just enough water to cover them. 
Pour off the water and allow it to cool ; it will set into a jelly. 
This jelly consists of gelatine which has come from the soft 
framework of the bone in which the lime was deposited. 

3. 'Burn a small piece of bone in a metal spoon in a fire ; all 
the animal matter will be burnt out of the bone and a white ash 
will be left which is simply the lime. 

4. If you have access to a skeleton, examine the bones of the 
limbs and those of the shoulder and pelvic girdle, noting the 
much greater strength of the bones of the lower limb and its 
girdle. Observe the spinal column and note the thick rounded 
column formed by the front of the bony rings. Note that the 
column becomes stronger as it nears the pelvic girdle. 

Examine the skull and observe the zig-zag joining of the flat 
bones forming its dome. Note the ribs and how the lower ones 
slope downwards more than the upper ones. 

5. Obtain the knee of a sheep and see how firmly the bones 
are bound together by the tough tissue forming the capsule of 
the joint. Cut into the joint and notice the small amount of 
slimy fluid which lubricates the inside of the joint. Feel the 
smooth, slimy cartilage covering the ends of the bones. Cut into 
the cartilage and notice that it is much softer than bone. 

6. Identify as many hinge joints in the body as you can, and do 
the same for the ball and socket joints. 



QUESTIONS ON CHAPTER III 

1. How do the bones of the limbs differ from those forming 
the roof of the skull ? 

2. What do you understand by the spine? Describe the bones 
of which it is made up. 

3. How are the bones of the upper and lower limb attached 
to the spine ? 



28 FIRST BOOK OF PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE 

4. How do the bones of the lower limb differ from those of 
the upper limb and why is there this difference ? 

5. How do you know that the bone consists of a soft tissue 
impregnated with lime ? 

6. Describe a movable joint and explain why it works so 
smoothly. 

7. What are the two most important kinds of movable joints 
in the body ? 

8. Describe the structure of a vertebra. How do the vertebrae 
differ in the different parts of the spinal column ? (Camb. Jun.) 

9. What types of joints are found in the body? (Camb. Jun.) 



CHAPTER IV 

FOOD-STUFFS 

Chemical elements. — Sugar and salt have very much 
the same appearance, and merely to look at them we should 
never imagine that they are made up of very different 
elements ; but the chemist has learnt to regard them in a 
special kind of way, and he knows that just as sunlight can 
be split up into different coloured rays so can matter be split 
up into simpler bodies called chemical elements. He, too, 
like the man who looks down the microscope and sees the 
tiny cells of which our bodies are composed, has found a 
pair of magic spectacles, which take him into quite a 
different world from the one we live in every day. The 
chemical elements among which he finds himself are as 
different as can be ; there are, for example, the solid metals 
iron and silver, the gases hydrogen and oxygen, and the 
crystalline form of carbon called diamond. 

These chemical elements are the bricks out of which are 
built every substance in the universe. The elements differ 
from one another, and the compounds built up from them 
differ from the parent elements and from each other. The 
elements carbon, oxygen, nitrogen, and hydrogen are not 
explosive in the pure state, but one of their compounds — 
nitro-glycerin — is so unstable that a sudden shock is enough 
to make it explode. Glycocol, on the other hand, a sub- 
stance which is built up of the same elements, is a very 



30 FIRST BOOK OF PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE 

Stable body. The smallest particles of the chemical elements 
which retain the characteristics of the elements are called 
atoms, and the atoms are built up into molecules. 

The chemical elements which make up the body are 
comparatively few in number; the most important are 
carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, sulphur, and phos- 
phorus. Carbon, which is familiar to us all as charcoal and 
soot, is the foundation stone of all plant and animal life ; it 
is easy to show that the animal body contains carbon by 
simply heating a piece of meat until it becomes charred; 
the other elements escape in the process of burning and the 
black carbon remains behind — if it be still further heated 
even the carbon escapes as well. The three gaseous elements, 
hydrogen, oxygen, and nitrogen, are all indispensable bricks 
in the edifice of living matter, but their presence cannot be 
demonstrated so easily. 

Chemistry of the body. — Chemical elements are 
arranged in many different patterns in the molecules of 
living matter, but there are three principal types of substance 
which concern us : the Proteins (meat and fi§h), Carbo- 
hydrates (starches and sugars), and Fats (butter and suet). 
All the muscle of the body is made up of protein and every 
cell in the body has a framework of protein.^ The cells of 
the loose tissue below the skin and elsewhere contain 
abundant stores of fat, and the cells of the liver and muscle 
store carbohydrate. 

The body's needs. — As the body is made up of the 
chemical elements carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, sulphur, nitro- 
gen, and phosphorus, it must be supplied with these elements 
in the form of food if it is to grow and be able to make good 
any loss. A plant can procure its carbon in a very simple 
form, it makes use of the carbon dioxide in the air and then 
proceeds to build the carbon up into protein, carbohydrate 

1 Protein is also found in the vegetable world stored up in the seeds 
of plants ; it is most abundant in nuts and in peas and beans. 



FOOD-STUFFS 31 



and fat. It gets its nitrogen in some cases from the atmo- 
sphere but mostly from the soil. The animal organism, 
however, cannot do this ; it would starve in the midst of an 
abundant supply of the elements and simple compounds, 
which suffice to nourish the plant. 

For the sustenance of the animal, the elements must be 
built up into three substances of different pattern ; we have 
already found them in the body itself; they are protein, 
carbohydrate and fat. All animals are dependent directly 
or indirectly on plants for their existence, because plants are 
the only manufacturers which can build the complicated 
food-stuffs out of very simple bodies. Protein is the most 
important of the food-stuffs, because it alone contains 
nitrogen, and the body can only make use of nitrogen when 
it is supplied in this form. Protein is made up of carbon, 
hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, with a little sulphur and some- 
times phosphorus. 

Carbohydrate and fat are made up of carbon, hydrogen 
and oxygen only j carbohydrate contains relatively . more 
oxygen than fat. The two commonest carbohydrates are 
sugar and starch. 

Fat is of animal and vegetable origin ; in the* vegetable 
world, it occurs chiefly as an oil which is manufactured by 
the plant and is stored up in the seeds. Animal fat is usually 
solid, except in the case of milk and cream, where the fat is 
present in the form of fine droplets of oil. The carbo- 
hydrates are practically all manufactured in the plant world. 
They are stored up in the seeds and roots in the form of 
starch grains, and sometimes they are present in a soluble 
form as sugar. Starch and sugar are very nearly related ; in 
the course of digestion starch is always converted into sugar. 

Sometimes to these food-stuffs are added certain inorganic 
substances not manufactured by plants, such as a few of the 
mineral salts, e.g. common salt, which is a constituent of the 
body, and needs to be constantly replenished. Water is 



32 FIRST BOOK OF PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE 

classed with these morganic substances ; large quantities of 
water are daily lost by the body and have to be replaced. 
The body contains an astonishing amount of water, almost 
four-fifths of the tissues being made up of it. 

Each of these food-stuffs has its own particular value for 
the body ; the protein is indispensable for growth and tissue 
repair ; carbohydrate supplies energy very rapidly ; while 
fat furnishes the largest amount of heat and lends itself to 
the storage of fat in the body. 

Classes of food-StufiFs.— Let us consider the most 
important kinds of food to see whether they are composed 
of protein, fat or carbohydrate, or whether they are mixtures 
of these food-stuffs. 

Bread is the foundation of most diets, and is made from 
the seed of the wheat plant. The seed contains stores of 
starch granules with very small amounts of protein and fat, 
which provide the little wheat seedling with food for its 
growth until it is able to make food for itself. Bread is 
made up almost entirely of carbohydrate in the form of 
starch ; it contains a small amount only of protein and a 
trace of fat. A glance at Fig. 20 will make this clear. 

Potatoes and rice closely resemble bread, but they do not 
contain a trace of fat. Oatmeal, on the other hand, contains 
a little more fat and protein than bread. Peas and beans 
are rich in protein, although they consist chiefly of carbo- 
hydrate. Thus all the carbohydrate in our food is supplied 
by the plant world, except a minute amount which is present 
in meat ; it is at once the cheapest and the easiest kind of 
food to obtain. 

Lean meat and fish are composed almost wholly of 
protein; there is, however, always a little fat in meat even 
if it seems to be quite lean. The white of egg consists of pure 
protein, but the yolk is very rich in fat. Cow's milk contains 
about equal quantities of the three food-stuffs, while cheese 
is very rich in protein and fat. Protein alone is much more 



FOOD-STUFFS 



33 



easily obtained in an animal than in a vegetable form, 
because in the seeds of plants there is always a lot of starch 



Bread 




Potatoes 



Oatmeal 



Protein 



Carbohydrate 



Fat MM 



Fig. 20. — Diagram to show the relative proportions of Proteids, 
Carbohydrates and Fats in common foods. The water and mineral 
matter are not represented. (Stenhouse.) 

Stored with the protein. Peas, beans, and nuts are the seeds 
which contain the most protein. 



34 PlRST BOOK OF PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE 

Butter, cream, and suet fat are almost pure animal fats, 
while olive oil, cocoa-nut butter, etc., are pure vegetable 
fats, and margarine is mainly vegetable fat. 

Vegetables, such as cabbage, turnip, and onion, contain 
very little nourishment, and are chiefly valuable for the salts 
they supply. 

Choice of a diet. — Nature has provided us with plenty 
of food-stuffs ; what is the best way to combine them so as 
to supply the needs of the body ? 

The baby is supplied with one food only, but this food 
provides all the things necessary for growth. Milk contains 
all three food-stuffs ; in mothers' milk the amount of fat is 
double that of the protein, while the amount of carbohydrate 
is double that of the fat. Any diet, then, which contains 
the three food-stuffs in these proportions will satisfy all the 
needs of the body. As a matter of fact, however, it is not 
necessary to adhere closely to these proportions ; the diet of 
people in different parts of the world and among different 
classes varies enormously. In India and China the majority 
of the people live almost entirely on rice, and their diet con- 
tains very little fat and protein. The Eskimos, on the other 
hand, consume enormous quantities of fat and meat ; as fat 
supplies a great deal of heat, much more of it should be 
eaten in cold than in warm climates and seasons. 

In choosing a diet, we see at once that bread alone would 
be insufficient for the needs of the body, because it does not 
contain enough protein and fat, hence it is good to eat butter 
or dripping with bread. The addition of cheese, a little 
meat, or fish makes a perfect diet. Rice needs the same 
additions as bread ; peas and beans contain enough protein 
to maintain life, and are largely used by vegetarians. Custom 
and tradition have wisely taught us to adopt a mixed diet. 
Meat or fish should always be taken at one meal in the day ; 
the other meals may with advantage consist of carbohydrate 
and fat. A mixed diet has the advantage of stimulating the 



r 



FOOD-STUFFS 35 



appetite, and on that account is more readily digested. 
Variety of food should be sought after, because food that is 
enjoyed is more readily digested than unpalatable food. 

The cost of the different food-stuffs has to be considered 
in the choice of a diet. Meat and fish are, for instance, 
more expensive than bread and rice, and when it is necessary 
to be very sparing in their use on this account, peas and 
beans should be freely eaten to make sure that the diet con- 
tains enough protein. 

The quantity of food we need may be roughly measured 
by the appetite, unless a person is persistently losing or 
gaining weight. Eat when you are hungry is a good rule ; 
but eating does not mean bolting ; food is more nourishing 
and is better digested when it is eaten slowly and is well 
chewed. Eat when you are hungry, but do not eat between 
meals ; three or four meals in the day are ample. 

There are scientific ways of finding out the exact quantity 
of food which the body requires ; but it is rarely the 
quantity of food which is at fault ; much more often it is 
the quality or the combination of the various food-stuffs 
which is unsatisfactory. 

QUESTIONS ON CHAPTER IV 

1. How do plants differ from animals in the matter of food ? 
Why are plants indispensable to animals ? 

2. Name the three classes of food-stuffs, and give examples of 
each. Which of them is indispensable for the growth of the 
body, and why ? 

3. What are the various uses of food in the body ? 

4. Do you know any article of food which is a perfect food, 
and which is able to satisfy all the requirements of the body ? 

5. What are the principal chemical elements of which the 
body is built up ? 

6. Explain the advantages of carbohydrates, proteids, and 
fats, respectively, as food-stuffs. (Camb. Jun.) 



36 FIRST BOOK OF PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE 

7. Point out the uses of the various articles of an ordinary 
diet. Make up a diet of cheap foods suitable for an adult. 

(Oxf. Jun.) 

8. Describe the chief chemical substances present in bread, 
meat, and milk. 

What are the advantages and disadvantages of a vegetarian 
as compared with a mixed diet ? (Oxf. Jim.) 

9. What is meant by a " Food-stuff" ? What are the reasons 

for taking butter with bread and potatoes with meat ? ■ 

(Camb. Jun.) j 

X 



CHAPTER V 

DIGESTION 

Before we can make use of our food, it must be digested ; 
for the cells of our body are not able to engulf solid particles 
of food and utilise them in the way that the amoeba — that 
distant relative of the body cells — does. Not only do the cells 
require the different food-stuffs to be presented to them in the 
liquid form, but they insist also on the food molecules being 
reduced to a simpler form. The preparation of the food- 
stuffs to suit the needs of the tissues is known as digestion, 
and the process is carried on in the alimentary or food canal. 
The digestive organs. — The mouth is the gateway of 
the food canal, and the jaws with their teeth, form a 
powerful mill to grind up the food and make it readily 
accessible to the digestive juices. The oesophagus or gullet 
connects the mouth with the stomach, which is simply a 
sack-like dilatation of the food canal. Each end of the 
stomach is closed by a ring of muscle, which opens automati- 
cally from time to time to allow of the entry and exit of 
food. The stomach is immediately followed by the small 
intestine, which is the most important part of the alimentary 
canal and is about twenty two feet long. It is arranged in 
innumerable coils packed away in the abdominal cavity. 
The last part of the food canal is called the large intestine ; 
its lower end opens on to the surface of the body at the anus, 
which is also guarded by a ring of muscle. 



38 FIRST BOOK OF PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE 



The alimentary canal is lined throughout with mucous 
membrane, which is so called because many of the cells 
secrete a slimy substance called mucus, which acts as a 
lubricant and facilitates the passage of the food along the 
canal. Imbedded in the mucous 
membrane are myriads of glands 
or small tube-like structures, 
which secrete the active digestive 
juices. 

The walls of the canal contain 
unstriped muscle fibres, and the 
slow wave-like contraction of 





Fig. 21. — Simple Tube Glands from 
the Intestine. (Luciani.) 



Fig. 22. — Glands from the Stomach 
of a Dog. (Luciani.) 



these fibres causes curious squirming movements in the 
stomach and intestine ; by this means the food is gently 
squeezed and is thoroughly mixed with the digestive juices 
as it is slowly being moved along in the direction of the 
anus. 

Closely associated with the alimentary canal are two very 
important organs called the liver and pancreas. The liver 



DIGESTION 



39 



is a large organ situated just beneath the diaphragm. A 
small sack, called the gall bladder, on its under surface, 
collects the bile or gall secreted by the liver cells. The bile 
is poured into the upper part of the small intestine and assists 
in the digestion of the fats of the food. 

The liver is really an enormous gland. When it first 
develops in the tiny living organism it is a little branched tube 
opening out of the food canal ; as it grows, however, the cells 
multiply to such an extent that it becomes a solid organ, and 
the tube-like structure 
is quite lost. The liver 
cells have other import- 
ant functions besides the 
secretion -of bile, which 
will be referred to later. 

The pancreas is a 
small flattened organ 
lying just below the 
stomach ; its cells secrete 
a very powerful digestive 

juice, which is poured Fxo. ^s-Liver Cells. 

into the first part of the The dark channels between the cells are the bile 
n • . , • vessels or ducts. (Luciani.) 

small mtestine. 

The process of digestion in different parts of the 
food canal. The mouth. — Three pairs of salivary glands 
pour their secretion into the mouth, the fluid being known 
as saliva. When we chew our food, it becomes thoroughly 
mixed with saliva and is then easily swallowed. Saliva 
has another important use, however, for it contains an active 
substance, or ferment, which is able to convert starch into 
sugar ; and hence digestion really begins in the mouth. It 
is evident that the proper mastication of our food forms a 
most important part in the first stage of digestion. 

We are all familiar with the watering of the mouth pro- 
duced by the sight or smell of appetising food ; this is due 




40 



FIRST BOOK OF PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE 



to an increased secretion of saliva in preparation for eating 
the food. 

Digestion in the stomach.— The glands of the stomach 
secrete an acid juice containing a ferment called pepsin 
which has a powerful digestive action on protein. The pro- 
tein is dissolved and the complicated molecule is reduced in 
size and partially taken to pieces. The food remains in the 
stomach for varying periods of time depending largely on the 
kind of food ; it is completely expelled from the stomach in 
from four to eighteen hours. Slow wave-like contractions of 
the walls of the stomach gradually press the food into the 
lower and narrower end, which has been called the pyloric 
mill, because the food is churned about there more actively. 
From time to time portions of the chyme — which is the name 
given to the mixture of partially digested food and gastric 
juice — are squirted into the upper end of the small intestine 
by the automatic opening of the muscular ring guarding the 
exit from the stomach. The muscular ring then immediately 
contracts again and the food in the stomach undergoes a 
further period of digestion. The process is repeated until 
all the food is finally expelled into the intestine. 

Digestion in the small intestine.— Three different 
fluids are poured into the small intestine ; they are the bile, 
the pancreatic juice, and the intestinal juice, the last named 
being secreted by the glands of the small intestine itself. 
The pancreatic juice is far the most important of the three, 
for it contains three different active substances or ferments, 
which digest protein, fat, and starch. The pancreatic juice 
completes the work of digestion carried on in the stomach ; 
the trypsin — as the ferment is called which acts on protein — 
reduces the size of the protein molecule still further so that 
it can be readily absorbed. The fat and starch of the food 
are broken down into smaller molecules in the same fashion 
by the other ferments. 

Absorption. — The small intestine is concerned in the 



DIGESTION 



41 



digestion of the food-stuffs, and most of the products of 
digestion are also absorbed here. Its mucous membrane is 
admirably adapted for this purpose, for its surface is enor- 
mously increased in the following way : the mucous mem- 
brane is thrown into countless folds and each fold is covered 
with minute finger-like projections called villi. Each 
villus contains a network of capillary blood-vessels and a 
little central vessel called a lacteal. 
The lacteal derives its name from 
the milky appearance, which it 
presents, when seen through the 
microscope after a meal rich in 
fat; the milky appearance is due 
to the fact that the lacteal is full 
of a fluid containing minute fat 
droplets, which have been absorbed 
from the intestine. This milky 
fluid is eventually emptied into 
the blood stream. The digested 
protein and the sugar are absorbed 
direct into the capillary network 
of the villi and are carried to the 
liver by the veins leading into a 
large vessel called the portal vein. 

The portal vein breaks up in 
the liver into another capillary 
network, in the meshes of which lie the liver cells. These 
cells pick the sugar out of the blood and store it away 
in the form of glycogen or animal starch ; later on they 
dole out the glycogen after converting it into sugar again. 
In this way the cells of the body are constantly supplied 
with sugar instead of being flooded with it just after a meal. 

After all the nutritive substances have been absorbed 
from the food canal, there remains a certain amount of 
waste material from the indigestible portions of the food and 




Fig. 24.— Two Intestinal Villi. 
The white vessels are the 
lacteals and the black ones are 
the blooQ-vessels. (Luciani.) 



42 FIRST BOOK OF PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE 



from the digestive juices themselves. This debris is slowly 
moved along the large intestine until it reaches the anus, 
and it is then expelled from the body in the form of 
stools, by the automatic opening of the ring of muscle, 
which keeps the anus closed. 




Fig. 25. — Capillary network of the Liver. 
The deep black network represents the bile ducts. (Luciani.) 

Ferments. — Ferments are such interesting and peculiar 
substances that they deserve some attention. They are 
always associated with living plants or animals, and their 
interest lies in the fact that they can produce changes, which 
can only be brought about outside the body by the prolonged 
action of great heat or by the use of powerful chemical 
agents. The name fermentation was long ago applied to the 
conversion of sugar into alcohol and carbon dioxide gas by 
the action of yeast or of germinating barley. It was 
eventually discovered that the activity of the yeast cells and 
of the germinating barley was due to substances which they 



DIGESTION 



43 



contained, and these substances were then known as 
ferments or enzymes. A very large number of ferments 
have now been discovered. In some ways they are 
mysterious bodies, for they have never been isolated in a 
pure state and their presence is only known because of the 
effects which they can produce. 

A ferment carries out its work of digestion, or whatever it 
may be, without suffering any change itself, so that, if suffi- 
cient time be allowed, a very small amount of ferment can 
produce great results. Ferments are destroyed by high 
temperatures, but they can be cooled down to the freezing 
point of water without being injured; they cannot carry out 
their work at such a low temperature, however. There is 
always a particular temperature at which they work best. 

Ferments are present in all living plants and animals. By 
means of the ferments which it contains, the seedling is able 
to utilise its stores of fat, starch, and proteins. All the 
tissues of our body contain ferments, and in starvation 
the less important tissues are actually digested by them for 
the benefit of organs and tissues essential to life. 



PRACTICAL EXERCISES 

1. If possible procure from the poulterer a rabbit, which has 
been skinned but not dressed, so that you can examine its 
food canal. Place the rabbit on a board and fix it in position 
on its back with the limbs stretched out ; by means of large 
drawing pins the end of each limb can be fixed to the board. 

Pinch up a small piece of the abdominal wall with your finger 
and thumb and make a small cut into this fold with a pair of 
scissors held in a horizontal position. Enlarge the opening 
until you can get the finger of the left hand inside ; slip the 
finger as far upwards towards the head as you can, and push 
the blade of the scissors carefully along this finger and then cut 
through the abdominal wall. Slip the finger as far down 
towards the legs as you can and cut in the same way. The 
reason for the precaution is that the food canal is very readily 
cut into, if the abdomen is opened carelessly, and the escape of 
its contents is very disagreeable. 



44 FIRST BOOK OF PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE 

A transverse cut at the edge of the ribs will give a still better 
view of the parts. Identify the dark red liver and notice its 
position immediately beneath the diaphragm. The stomach is 
immediately below the liver, and it can be traced onwards into 
the intestine, which is thrown into innumerable coils and which 
gradually leads to the anus. 

The food canal of the rabbit differs in some respects from that 
of man, but you will gain a much better idea of the long tortuous 
digestive tube by actually having seen one than you could ever 
get from reading about it. The chest cavity can easily be 
opened with the scissors, and the continuation upwards of the 
food canal from the stomach to the mouth can be traced. 

This opportunity of looking at the heart and lungs should be 
taken. 

2. Make a starch paste by mixing a level teaspoonful of starch 
with a little water, and then add more water until the mixture 
fills a pint measure. Boil a portion of the mixture to burst the 
starch grains and allow it to cool. 

Collect about a teaspoonful of saliva by spitting into a test 
tube ; divide this amount equally between two test tubes A 
and B. Boil the saliva in test tube A, and allow it to cool by 
placing it in a cup of cold water. Fill each test tube about 
half full with the boiled starch, and then put them aside for ten 
minutes. 

Put some starch mixture into a third test tube, and add to 
this a drop of tincture of iodine, which can be obtained from the 
chemist ; note the deep blue colour which is characteristic of 
starch and iodine when mixed together. At the end of the ten 
minutes add a drop of the iodine to tubes A and B, and note the 
result. There will be a deep blue coloration in A showing that 
the starch is unaltered, but there will be an absence of this 
colour in B because the starch has been digested by the 
saliva. 

3. Add some rennet to some milk and note the gradual 
separation of the milk into curd and whey on account of the 
coagulation of the protein in the milk. If the rennet is boiled 
before being added to the milk, the latter remains unaltered. 



QUESTIONS ON CHAPTER V 

1. Give an account of the secretion of saliva. What is the 
action of saliva on food, and how can you prove that it has this 
action? (Camb. Jun.) 

2. Why is it necessary for food to be chewed ? 



DIGESTION 45 



3. Describe the changes which food undergoes in the stomach. 

(Camb. Jun.) 

4. Name the glands which pour their secretions into the 
alimentary canal, and give the use of one substance in each 
secretion. (Oxf Jun.) 

5. Describe the various changes the food undergoes in the 
small and large intestines. (Oxf Jun.) 

6. What is the most powerful digestive juice in the body, and 
where does it come from? Which food-stufifs does it digest, 
and where is this digestion carried on ? 

7. What do you mean by a ferment ? State what you know 
about them. 

8. Describe briefly the changes undergone by food in the 
mouth, and in its passage from the mouth along the alimentary 
canal. Why is it harmful to eat too much food ? (Oxf. Jun.) 



CHAPTER VI 
COOKING 

Advantages of cooking our food.— Why do we cook 

nearly all our food ? Flesh-eating animals eat all their food 
raw, and horses and cows thrive on uncooked grain and 
grass. Food does not become more nutritious by being 
cooked; it contains just the same food-stuffs, whether 
cooked or raw. .In spite of this there are very real 
advantages to be gained by cooking food. In the first 
place, the food is made more appetizing. Think of the 
difference between raw and cooked meat ; cooking brings 
out all the flavour of the meat, it also alters its texture and 
makes it more easy to masticate. The different ways of 
cooking increase the variety of our diet to an enormous 
extent, and the various foods can be made more palatable 
by the addition of sauces and flavouririg agents. 

In most cases the food is made more digestible by being 
cooked. This is particularly true of the starchy foods which 
contribute so largely to our diet ; the explanation of this 
fact we shall learn later. Vegetables contain a very large 
proportion of indigestible matter, which is softened and 
made much more accessible to the digestive juices by the 
action of cooking. 

Disease germs are sometimes present in animal food- 
stuffs, such as milk and meat ; such germs are destroyed by 
heat. A food is said to be sterilized when all the germs in 



COOKING 47 



it have been destroyed. Cooking does much to sterilize 
food. It is by no means certain, however, that cooking 
would kill all the germs in the interior of a large joint, 
because the heat only penetrates meat slowly, and the joint 
is never so hot in the interior as on the outside. But in any 
case cooking will certainly diminish the danger due to the 
presence of micro-organisms in food. You know that in hot 
weather meat and milk will not keep so long as in cold 
weather; this is because the germs of putrefaction, which 
are always in the air, and collect invariably on the sur- 
face of the food, develop and grow much more rapidly in 
hot than in cold weather. When the food is cooked these 
germs are killed, and the food can be kept for a further 
period without fear of its going bad. The advantage of 
keeping meat and fish in cold storage is, that at this low 
temperature no germs can grow, and so there is no danger 
of putrefaction. 

Cooking gives us an opportunity of combining different 
food-stuffs ; and at the same time they can be made more 
accessible to the digestive juices by grinding or mincing 
them up. In a cheese pudding, for instance, the flour or 
starchy food is combined with cheese, which is rich in pro- 
tein and fat ; and at the same time the cheese is rendered 
more digestible by being grated. 

Methods of cooking. — We must now consider the 
effect of cooking on the various food-stuffs. Different 
methods may be used ; the food may be roasted, baked, 
fried, boiled, or steamed. The principle is the same in 
every case, that is, the application of heat to the surface of 
the food. In boiling and steaming the temperature always 
remains that of boiling water. In roasting and baking, the 
temperature varies with the temperature of the oven, while 
in frying the temperature cannot exceed that of boiling fat. 
This temperature is very much higher than that of boiling 
water, and thus food is much more quickly cooked by frying 



48 FIRST BOOK OF PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE 

than by boiling. As a matter of fact, it is not convenient 
to cook thick pieces of food, such as a joint, by frying, 
because the heat is only applied from underneath, whereas 
in roasting and boiling the heat reaches the joint from all 
sides. 

Changes produced in food by cooking.— Meat.— 
If you fry a mutton chop, you will notice that the colour of 
the meat soon changes from red to brown, and that at the 
same time the surface of the meat becomes much firmer; 
this is due to the coagulation of the protein of the meat by 
the heat. If, however, you stop cooking the chop the 
minute it becomes brown, it would still be quite raw in the 
centre, because the heat only penetrates the meat slowly. 
Cooks often speak of the pores of the meat being sealed 
when meat is put into a hot oven ; this is due to the 
coagulation of the protein, and it has the great advan- 
tage of keeping in the juices of the meat. The same thing 
takes place when meat is put into boiling water, because 
the protein on the surface of the meat is coagulated at that 
temperature too; after this the cooking should be finished 
by gentle simmering, as the meat will be rendered tough 
by boiling it vigorously. 

In a stew, where the meat is cut up into small pieces and 
is put into cold water, the effect of cooking is somewhat 
different. The flavouring matters in the meat are soluble 
in water and they soak out into the water, because the pores 
of the meat have not been sealed. The protein of the meat 
itself is soluble in cold water, and so a little of it soaks out 
into the water until the temperature of the water is 
sufficiently high to coagulate the protein, and the meat then 
continues to cook in its own juices. The advantage of 
cutting the meat into small pieces is that a much greater 
surface is exposed to the water in this way. 

You can understand now why meat must be put into 
boiling and not into cold water, if it is to be cooked by 



COOKING 49 



boiling; it would be tasteless if it were put into cold water, 
because many of the flavouring matters would have soaked 
out of it, and some of the nutritious protein w^ould have 
been lost. 

Beef tea is made by steeping chopped-up -beef in cold 
water for half an hour, and then slowly heating it. As the 
fluid only is given, it cannot be regarded as a nourishing 
food, for it contains only a small amount of protein; but it is 
useful as a stimulating beverage for invalids, on account of 
the flavouring matters that have been dissolved out of the 
meat. 

It is worth while to think for a moment of soups and the 
stock from which they are made. Stock is made by boiling 
bones for several hours ; when the stock cools it sets into a 
jelly, unless too much water has been used; this jelly is a 
substance called gelatine, which comes from the fibrous 
tissue of the bones and ligaments. Although it contains 
nitrogen it has only a small nutritive value and is in no way 
equal to protein. It is the starchy substances added to 
thicken soup which really make it worthy of being called 
a food. Pea, bean, and lentil soup are highly nutritious 
on this account. 

Starchy foods. — We must now consider the action of cook- 
ing on starchy foods, such as corn-flour, oatmeal, potato, etc. 
In these food-stuffs the starch is always present in the form 
of starch grains, which have to be dissolved before they can 
be converted into sugar for the body to use. Now when 
starch is heated, the starch grains burst, and if there is any 
moisture they absorb it and swell up. We all know what 
a change takes place if we add boiling water to a paste of 
starch made with cold water ; the starch immediately 
becomes thick and transparent from the swelling up and 
bursting of the starch grains. It reduces the work of the 
cells in the food canal very much if the starch is prepared 
for them in this way, as the grains become much more 



50 FIRST BOOK OF PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE 




Cells of raw Potato, with the starch 

grains in the natural condition, 

(Highly magnified.) 




Cells of Potato boiled in water half an 
hour. (Highly magnified.) 




Cells of Potat' 
mashed. 



well steamed and 



(Highly magnified.) 
Fig. 26. 



accessible to the digestive juices 
after they have been burst. 

Vegetables such as cabbage, 
cauliflower, turnip, do not 
contain much nutritive matter, 
but they do contain a great 
deal of an undigestible sub- 
stance called cellulose; cook- 
ing softens the cellulose and 
thus lessens the work of the 
digestive tract. 

Fats. — Finally, we have to 
consider the effect of cooking 
on fat. Very little alteration 
takes place if the fat be not 
overheated. You will probably 
have noticed that sometimes 
when food is being fried there 
is a very penetrating odour; 
this is due to the formation of 
certain fatty acids owing to the 
fact that the fat has been over- 
heated. Dishes which contain 
a gieat deal of fat — such as 
suet puddings with a very 
plentiful proportion of suet, or 
hot buttered toast or mufifins — 
are not very readily digested, 
because the liquid fat tends to 
envelop the starch grains of the 
flour, and in this way prevents 
the digestive juices reaching 
them readily. 

In frying, it is important not 
to put the food into the pan 



COOKING 



51 



until the fat is almost boiling ; a bluish vapour can be seen 
rising from the fat when the proper temperature has been 
reached. Food fried in this way is never greasy. If the 
food be put into the pan before the fat is hot enough, the 
fat will soak into the meat or fish and make it greasy, because 
the pores have not been sealed. Here again the liquid fat 
envelopes the food particles and hinders their digestion. 

The action of yeast and baking powder.— We have 

still to consider the action of yeast and baking powder on 
starchy foods. If bread were simply made with flour and 
water without any yeast, it 
would be a hard mass when 
it was baked, instead of being 
light and spongy. 

Yeast is a tiny vegetable 
cell which multiplies very 
rapidly, and produces num- 
bers of other cells exactly like 
itself, under favourable condi- 
tions, which are the presence 
of moisture, of a certain degree 
of warmth, and of the necessary 
food material — sugar or starch, 
into sugar, which it then breaks up into carbon dioxide gas 
and alcohol. Now when the dough has been thoroughly 
mixed with some yeast, and has been placed in a warm 
place, the yeast cells begin to multiply, and minute bubbles 
of carbon dioxide are formed, so that the dough is gradually 
riddled with tiny spaces filled with the gas. The dough 
begins to rise in consequence, and after it is put in the 
oven it rises still more, because the bubbles of gas expand 
with the heat; the dough is now converted into a sponge. 
The yeast is killed by the further rise of temperature, 
and the starch grains swell and burst in the process of 
cooking. 




Fig, 27. — Yeast cells. (Photo. 
J. E. Barnard.) 

It is able to convert starch 



52 FIRST BOOK OF PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE 

The digestive juices get at the starchy material much 
more quickly in the case of bread which has been riddled 
in this way with gas bubbles than they would do if the 
dough had been baked without yeast and was comparatively 
solid. 

Baking powder has the same effect as yeast ; bubbles of 
carbon dioxide are formed which penetrate the dough or 
paste and make it rise. Baking powder is a mixture of 
baking soda and tartaric acid, and when these are warmed 
in the presence of moisture a chemical reaction takes place 
between the two substances and carbon dioxide gas is 
liberated. 

Appetite. — Appetite is the way in which the cells of the 
body ask for moie food to supply their needs. In real 
hunger the request becomes a demand, and they clamour for 
food. The saying that appetite is the best sauce is a very 
true one ; not only does the food taste better when we are 
hungry, but it is digested better. Appetite increases the 
flow of the digestive juices. You know how the sight or 
smell of some very appetizing food makes the mouth water, 
that is to say, it causes an abundant secretion of saliva, which, 
as we have already learned, begins the digestion of the starchy 
foods. The other digestive juices are also poured out in 
greater amount when the food is very appetizing, and as a 
result digestion is more rapid. Appetite then is the best aid 
to digestion, and we shall do well to cultivate a healthy one. 

Plenty of exercise in the open air is the best way of getting 
a healthy appetite, and eating between meals is one of the 
surest ways of destroying it. Food should always be well 
cooked and nicely served ; the table-cloth should be of the 
cleanest, and the table should be made to look as attractive 
as possible, for these things increase our relish for the food. 

One of the things which destroys appetite more completely 
than anything else is a strong emotion. A great fright or great 
•excitement of any kind not only kills our desire for food, but 



COOKING 53 



it actually stops the secretion of the digestive juices. You 
may remember that your mouth became dry from want of 
the secretion of saliva if you ever had a great fright. It is 
evident then, that when we are taking our food, we should 
be in a cheerful and contented frame of mind in order to 
assist in the work of digestion. 

Indigestion. — Indigestion, pain or discomfort after food 
is the body's way of saying that the digestive tract is being 
overworked or is not capable of doing its work easily. 
Probably the most frequent cause of indigestion is the 
bolting of food ; instead of being thoroughly ground up 
by the teeth and well mixed with the saliva, the food is shot 
down into the stomach not properly prepared and not ready 
for the action of the stomach juices. If too much food be 
eaten at one time, the stomach gets overloaded and cannot 
cope with the demands made upon it. Eating between 
meals is very liable to cause indigestion, because the stomach 
never gets a rest ; no cell or collection of cells can be ex- 
pected to work overtime without complaining. A powerful 
emotion may not only destroy the appetite, but it may also 
cause indigestion if food be taken, because the cells fail 
to secrete the normal amount of digestive juices. The effect 
on digestion is much the same if we are bodily or mentally 
very tired ; i.e. the supply of digestive juices is deficient, and 
there is apt to be discomfort after food. 



PRACTICAL EXERCISES 

1. Mix a little starch into a thick paste with a little cold water. 
Add to it some boiling water, stirring all the time. Note the 
change in the colour of the starch, which becomes transparent 
and bluish. Note also that the mixture becomes thick and 
gelatinous from the swelling and bursting of the starch grains. 

2. Take a quarter of a pound of meat and mince it, after 
freeing it from fat. Cover it with cold water to which a few 
grains of salt have been added. Let it stand for half an hour ; 
notice that the water has become red, while the meat itself is 



54 FIRST BOOK OF PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE 

paler than it was. Evidently some of the colouring matter of 
the meat has dissolved out into the water. 

Pour off the liquid and heat it in a small pan till it boils, being 
careful to stir it meanwhile. Notice that the colour of the liquid 
changes from red to brown. After it has cooled pour it into a 
glass ; you will see that it is full of brown particles which all settle 
to the bottom, leaving the liquid above quite clear. These brown 
particles are the protein, which was dissolved out of the meat by 
the cold water, and has been coagulated by boiling. Observe 
the pleasant meaty taste of the liquid. 

3. Plunge a quarter of a pound of meat into boiling water, 
and leave it there for 15 minutes. Remove it, mince it up, 
^nd then cover it with cold water, to which a pinch of salt has 
been added. At the end of half an hour there will be very little 
change in the colour of the water. Pour ofif the water and boil 
it. Few or no solid particles will make their appearance ; the 
liquid will have a pleasant meaty taste, because some of the 
flavouring agents of the meat will have dissolved out, but this 
taste will not be so pronounced as in the experiment with unboiled 
meat. 

4. Boil a piece of cabbage and compare it with the fresh 
•cabbage leaf. Note the softening of the cabbage. 



QUESTIONS ON CHAPTER VI 

1. What classes of substances must be contained in an 
adequate diet? What are the advantages and disadvantages 
•of cooking food ? (Oxf. Jun.) 

2. What changes in {a) meat, {b) potatoes, are effected by 
boiling ? (Oxf. Jun.) 

3. What happens to the starch grains in flour when they are 
mixed with water and heated? 

4. How does appetite help digestion ? 

5. Why is yeast used in making bread ? Describe the action 
•of the yeast. 

6. How is bread made ? What changes does the flour undergo 
'{a) during the making of bread, {b) in the stomach after the bread 
has been chewed and swallowed ? (Oxf. Jun.) 



CHAPTER VII 

THE CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD 

The capillary network.— If you press your fingers 
together and hold them up to a window, the light shines 
red through the chinks between them, because the thin layer 
of skin is more or less transparent and the red colour of the 
blood shows through it. If our bodies were transparent and 
were enormously magnified, we should see a marvellous 
picture ; the whole body would be seen to be covered with 
the most delicate scarlet network, so fine that it looked like 
a veil. If we looked further below the surface of the body 
we should find that every tissue and organ in the body was 
penetrated by a similar finer or coarser network, sometimes 
having a characteristic pattern. The network is made up 
of the most thin-walled and finest of blood-vessels, called 
capillary vessels, and we are looking at the great capillary 
circulation, which takes the blood to every colony of cells 
in the body. Never once does the scarlet stream cease 
flowing in the network until the day of death. 

The heart. — How is the stream kept flowing? If you 
put your ear to someone's chest you will hear, if you listen 
closely, some muffled sounds like the distant beat of a drum, 
which you can imitate fairly closely by saying under your 
breath lupp dupp, lupp dupp. It is the sound of the beat- 
ing heart, and with each beat the heart drives the blood 
into the great blood-vessels. Unlike most pumps, the heart 



56 FIRST BOOK OF PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE 



has no piston, for nature has provided a much more cunning 
arrangement ; the thick fleshy walls of the heart contract 
and meet one another, simply squeezing every drop of blood 
out of it. 

One of the first things to be seen when the tiny human 
being is developing from the parent cell is a little scarlet 
pulsating tube with the thinnest of walls. This little tube 



tip of -pubnonary 
left amide artery 



right- 
aurude 




aorta 



roove between 
'the two ventricles 



Tight 

ventricle " ^ ~ 

groove between 
the two ventricles 



left 
ventricle 



Fig. 28. — The Adult Human Heart. 

The smooth membrane covering of the heart has been stripped oS and 
the direction of the muscle fibres is seen. 

is the heart, and as it grows its walls, which at first con- 
sisted of a single layer of cells, become thicker and thicker 
and the tube gets bent on itself, and instead of having a 
single chamber it now has four chambers, which are guarded 
by valves. The heart of a grown-up person really consists 
of two thick-walled muscular tubes placed side by side — the 
right and the left heart. Each side of the heart is divided 
into two chambers — the auricle or receiving chamber, and 
the ventricle or pump proper. The walls of the auricle are 
thinner than those of the ventricle, because it only has to 



THE CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD 



57 



drive the blood into the next chamber (the ventricle). The 
ventricle, on the other hand, has to drive the blood on into 
the great capillary network, and this needs enormous force. 

Between each auricle and ventricle, and between each 
ventricle and the great artery into which it pours its blood, 
there are delicate little flaps or valves which direct the 
current of blood. When the auricle contracts and drives 




cdt/e 



Fig. 29. — Diagrams of one pump of the Heart. 

In the left figure the blood is flowing from the auricle into the ventricle. 
In the right figure the ventricle is contracting. 

the blood on into the ventricle, the valves lie flat against 
the walls of the ventricle, but when the ventricle contracts, 
the valves close with a snap and prevent any of the blood 
from running back into the auricle. These little valves are 
prevented from floating too far back by being tied by delicate 
little threads to the wall of the ventricle. The valves at the 
opening of the great arteries are like little watch pockets ; 
they are as thin as silk, and lie flat against the walls as the 
blood is being driven into the big vessels ; but they, too, 



58 FIRST BOOK OF PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE 

close with a snap when the ventricle relaxes to prevent the 
back flow of blood. 

We have already seen that the characteristic thing about 
muscle tissue is that it can contract and relax. The heart 
muscle is no exception to this rule, only it has made the 
operation into a fine art. It contracts rhythmically about 
seventy-two times a minute ; it contracts and then relaxes at 
regular intervals, and in health it never departs from its 
rhythm. If the cells demand more blood the beats or con- 
tractions follow one another more rapidly, that is all. 

It is a fascinating thing to watch the heart at work. You 
have seen the wind blowing over a field of long grass and 
have noticed wave following wave as the blades of grass 
bent with the wind. Much the same thing happens when 
the heart contracts. A wave runs over the heart from the 
receiving chamber to the ventricle, and then dies away again. 
With each contraction the heart seems to gather itself up into 
a knot and then it relaxes again. The left side of the heart 
is a much more powerful pump than the right side, and has 
much thicker walls, because it has much harder work to do. 
It is easy enough for water to flow down hill, but it can only 
be made to go uphill by pumping it. Now the left side of 
the heart has really to pump the blood uphill, for it has to 
send it to every part of the body except the lungs, up into 
the head and neck and down into the legs and then up again 
to the heart, whereas the right side only drives the blood to 
the lungs and back to the heart. 

The arteries and veins. — We have referred to the pump 
and the great capillary network, but we have not explained 
how the two are connected. The arteries and the veins 
make the connection — the arteries take the blood from the 
heart to the capillaries and the veins take it back from the 
capillaries to the heart, and both break up into finer and 
finer branches as they reach the capillaries. The walls of 
the arteries are very elastic, because they have to make room 



THE CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD 



59 



^'. 



for the extra blood which the heart pumps into them at 
every beat. This is why, when you put your finger on the 
pulse (the radial artery at the wrist), 
you feel with every heart-beat a 
sudden bulging of the vessel beneath 
your fingers. 

The veins are much thinner walled 
than the arteries, and have little 
pocket-like valves to prevent the 
blood from falling back when the 
veins get squeezed by the muscles. 
When an artery is cut the blood 
does not flow out in a steady 
stream, but squirts out in a series 
of jets. If the capillaries are cut 
the blood just oozes out, while if a 
vein be cut the blood flows out in 
a steady stream. It is evident that 
the blood flows much quicker in 
the arteries than in the capillaries. 
It is quite easy to understand why 
this should be so ; a river flowing 
between narrow banks flows much 
more rapidly than the same river 
when it has a broad and shallow 
bed. In the arteries the blood is 
confined within a comparatively 
narrow bed, but in the capillaries 
it has the choice of many diffierent 
channels. 

The regulation of the blood 

supply. — The blood does not flow 

in an even stream to all parts of the body at once. There 

is a wonderful regulating mechanism ; supposing there is 



?fr 



d 



Fig. 30. — A large Vein split 
open to show (c) the little 
pocket-like valves in the inside. 
e. The openings of the tribu- 
tary veins /. (Luciani.) 



a demand for more blood all over the body, which happens 



6o FIRST BOOK OF PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE 

when we take active exercise, there is only one way of meet- 
ing that demand — the heart must pump harder and more 
frequently, and that is why we feel it thumping after we have 
been running quickly. Very often, however, a particular 
organ wants an extra supply of blood because it is working 
hard — for instance, the stomach after a meal — and then, 
instead of the pump working harder, the arteries supplying 
the stomach dilate, and more blood flows through them. 
Changes of this kind are constantly taking place in the 
body. When the blood supply is increased, the capillaries 
become filled and dilated, and in the case of the surface 
capillaries, there is so much more blood in them that the 
skin becomes pink or red. After taking a hot bath or in 
blushing, the surface capillaries are dilated. 

The pathway of the blood cells.— To complete our 

story of the circulation of the blood we must follow the 
stream in its journey round the body. Starting with the left 
side of the heart, the ventricle drives the blood into the big 
artery called the aorta, which gives off branches to the head 
and limbs, and to all the organs in the body except the 
lungs. After travelling through the capillary network, it 
returns by the veins to the right auricle. The blood return- 
ing from the intestine and stomach, however, does not go 
straight back to the heart ; it is carried by the portal vein to 
the liver, where it goes through a second set of capillaries 
before it is finally returned to the right side of the heart by 
the vena cava. The blood coming from the digestive tract 
is laden with food-stuffs, and the liver picks out the starchy 
food and stores it away to deal it out in smaller doles as 
required. Arrived at the right side of the heart, having 
been robbed of much of its oxygen, the blood is next driven 
into the lungs by the pulmonary artery, and is there recharged 
with oxygen and returned to the left auricle to begin its 
journey anew. 

The blood. — When a drop of blood is observed under 



THE CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD 6i 

the microscope, crowds of small round discs of a greenish- 
yellow colour are seen floating in a colourless fluid. The 
little round discs are the red blood cells or corpuscles : when 
the light shines through a thin layer of them they look 
yellow, but when it shines through hundreds of them they 
appear red. The blood is red, then, because it is laden with 
red blood cells ; in one drop of blood there are about five 
million of them. The red blood cells are the great carriers 
of the body. In the great capillary network of the lungs 
they get laden with oxygen, which we compared elsewhere 
to the elixir of life, because no cell can live without it. 
When the little red blood cell is charged with oxygen it 
becomes even a brighter red ; it hurries through the left side 




Fig. 31. — White Blood Cells. (Luciani.) 
a, a', b. Resting white blood cells. c. White blood cells in the act of moving. 

of the heart, and is pumped on through the arteries into one 
of the great capillary networks of the muscles, skin, or other 
organs, and while it is meandering through the network the 
tissues rob it of its oxygen or barter the noxious carbon 
dioxide for it. The colour of the red blood cell changes 
from bright red to purple-red, and it hurries along the veins 
to the right side of the heart, whence it is driven to the 
lungs to get rid of its burden, and then scarlet once more it 
hurries back to the left heart to begin its cycle again. 

The blood contains white cells or corpuscles in addition 
to the red, and they are more nearly related to the ancestral 
amoeba than any other cell in the body. They are much 
fewer in number than the red cells ; indeed, there is only 
about one for every four or five hundred red cells. They 
can sometimes be seen rolling along the walls of the blood- 



62 FIRST BOOK OF PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE 

vessels, and they have actually been caught in the act of 
squeezing themselves through the chinks in the walls ; for 
they can alter their shape like the amoeba. Like the amoeba 
also, they can digest solid particles of food ; they really form 
a kind of police, and they defend the body from the attacks 
of enemies in the form of disease germs or micro-organisms. 
When the body is invaded by an enemy, they make their 
way to the spot, travelling by the blood stream, and then 
squeezing themselves through the walls, they simply engult 
the microbes. Sometimes the invaders are too strong for 
the white blood cells, which are killed and become pus cells ; 
the matter out of an abscess or boil consists chiefly of the 
dead bodies of white blood cells and bacteria which have 
perished in this way. 

The clotting of blood. — You may never have seen a 
large blood clot, but you know that when blood is shed, it 
goes solid or clots. If blood from an animal be received into 
a basin, it becomes solid in a few minutes, and the basin can 
be turned upside down without the blood falling out. If 
the basin be allowed to stand, the clot gradually shrinks, 
and a clear yellow fluid appears on the surface of the clot — 
this liquid is the so-called serum. A great change has taken 
place in the blood ; the liquid part of the blood or plasma 
contains a protein called fibrinogen, which coagulates when 
the blood is shed and forms a meshwork of tiny threads. 
In this meshwork all the red blood cells are caught. You 
know how milk curdles when rennet is added to it to make 
curds and whey; the curd is solid and the watery whey is 
gradually squeezed out of the curd. The coagulation of 
fibrinogen takes place in much the same kind of way. If 
the blood is beaten with twigs while it is being shed, a tough 
stringy mass of fibrin gathers on the twigs, and the blood 
will then no longer coagulate because the fibrin has been 
taken out of it. 

Why is it that the blood does not clot in the body ? As 



THE CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD 63 

a matter of fact, the blood does sometimes clot in the 
body ; if by any chance the wall of the blood-vessel gets 
injured — if it gets torn or cut through — a tiny clot is formed 
at the cut surface if the current of blood is not too strong, 
and in this way the bleeding is stopped. The answer to our 
question, why the blood does not clot as a rule in the body, 
is because it is in contact with the living vessel wall. The 
capacity of the blood to clot is very useful in sealing up torn 
and cut vessels and preventing bleeding. 



^ PRACTICAL EXERCISES 

1. Put your ear to someone's chest wall just below the left 
nipple and listen to the heart-beats. Listen again after the 
person has run up and down stairs, and note the increased rate 
at which the heart is now beating. 

2. Put your finger in the space between two ribs just below 
the left nipple and feel the beat of the heart. 

3. To feel your own pulse, place the right wrist with the palm 
turned upwards in the palm of the left hand, and then bend the 
fingers of the left hand so that the tips of the fingers rest on the 
front of the right wrist. 

4. Press the back of the hand firmly with a finger or thumb 
until the spot you have pressed is quite pale, then watch the 
pink colour returning as the blood flows back again into the 
capillary network of the skin out of which you had squeezed it. 
This will give you an idea of how quickly the blood flows 
through the capillaries. 

♦ 5. Get a sheep's heart from the butcher; open into the 
chambers of the heart by putting the blade of a pair of scissors 
into the two big arteries at the base of the heart ; you will prob- 
ably be able to recognize these by their thick yellow white walls. 
One is the aorta and leads into the left side of the heart, the 
other is the pulmonary artery and leads into the right side of 
the heart. Notice the little pocket-like valves at the entrance 
of the aorta and pulmonary artery. Notice that the walls of the 
pumping chamber proper are much thicker than those of the 
receiving chamber or auricle. Try to make out the valves 
between each auricle and ventricle, and see how they are tied 
down to the walls of the ventricle by delicate little threads. 



64 FIRST BOOK OF PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE 



QUESTIONS ON CHAPTER VII 

1. Describe the human heart, and point out how the blood in 
it is caused to flow in one direction only. (Oxf. Jun.) 

2. Draw a diagram of the circulation and indicate with arrows 
the direction in which the blood is flowing. 

3. How does the interior of the right side of the heart differ 
from that of the left side ? What is the reason for the difference 
in the colour of the blood on the two sides ? (Camb. Jun.) 

4. Describe the course of a drop of blood from the left ventricle 
back to the same cavity. Give all the proofs you know that the 
blood takes this course. (Oxf. Jun.) 

5. Why are the walls of the left side of the heart thicker than 
those of the right side ? 

6. What part do valves play in the circulation of the blood? 

7. Where does the blood in the capillary network of the liver 
come from ? 

8. Of what use are the red blood cells to the body ? What 
are the changes that take place in the blood in the capillary 
network? Explain why the blood has been compared to the 
market-place for the cells of the body. 

9. What gases are found in blood ? Where and how do these 
gases become altered? (Camb. Jun.) 

10. What are the chief uses of the different k'nds of corpuscles 
of the blood ? (Oxf Jun.) 



CHAPTER VIII 
RESPIRATION 

Combustion of food-stuffs. — When we were consider- 
ing food-stuffs we found that animals are unlike plants, 
because they cannot take any of their food directjy from 
the air, but need to have the carbon and other elements 
built up into complicated substances by plants before they 
can utilize them. There is one element which animals 
must take from the air, and that is oxygen. Oxygen 
is not a food itself, but it is the magic key which opens 
nature's storehouses of energy ; for the food-stuffs are really 
stores of chemical energy, and before this energy can be 
set free for the uses of the animal they must be oxidized, 
or burnt. When coal is burnt all the energy is set free in 
the form of heat, and so high is the temperature that the 
gases from the coal bursts into flame. If we were to shut 
out the air, in other words, if we were to cut off the supply of 
oxygen, the fire would go out. Now the food-stuffs need 
oxygen for their combustion in the body just as much as the 
coal does outside the body, but the combustion in the body 
is not accompanied by flame and great heat ; it is a wet 
combustion process instead of a dry one. If the food-stuffs, 
e.g. oil and bread, be quite dry and absolutely free from 
moisture they will burn outside the body like coal. When 
an animal is put under a bell jar it quickly dies from want 
of oxygen to keep the internal fires burning, just as the flame 
of a candle goes out if treated in the same way. 

CP.H. E 



66 FIRST BOOK OF PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE 

The oxygen carriers.^— If oxygen be so necessary for 
the life of the animal, how has nature met the problem of 
supplying all the cells of the body with it? The greater 
part of them are far enough away from the air, which is a 
mixture of oxygen and nitrogen, and may be regarded as 
diluted oxygen. But for the offices of the red blood cells 
the cells in the body would fare badly. These red cells may 
be compared to philanthropists, for not only are they the 
oxygen carriers for the whole body, but they also load them- 
selves with the waste material (the carbon dioxide gas) from 
the tiny hearth of each cell. Each red blood cell is saturated 
with a pigment called haemoglobin, which is greedy for 
oxygen and unites with it whenever it gets the chance — for 
instance, blood which has been shed becomes bright red on 
exposure to air because this union has taken place. Now 
in the lungs the red blood cells are only separated from the 
air by the thinnest layer of cells, and the same change in 
colour takes place, showing that the red cells have got rid of 
their carbon dioxide and have seized on the oxygen mole- 
cules. Haemoglobin, which is loaded with this gas instead of 
with oxygen, is a dark purple red, and this is why your hands 
have a bluish colour when they are very cold, for the blood 
is circulating so slowly in the capillary network that it gets 
simply loaded with carbon dioxide and cannot get away 
quickly enough to get rid of it. 

How the red blood cells get their oxygen.— We must 

now consider the mechanism of respiration, or nature's 
arrangement for freeing the blood of carbon dioxide and for 
satisfying its demand for oxygen. The tissues can only get 
their oxygen indirectly from the air by the good offices of the 
red blood cells, as we have already seen : and they are, 
therefore, dependent on the state of the blood. Let us first 

^ We have already referred to the oxygen carriers in connection with 
the circulation, but it may be of service to recapitulate the most im- 
portant facts about them. 



RESPIRATION 67 



of all think of nature's mechanism for the proper aeration of 
the blood. 

The lungs are the so-called organs of respiration ; they are 
two in number, and are placed one in the left and the other 
in the right side of the chest. They are curious bodies filled 
with air, and are so light that they will float in water. 
They are made up of countless little air sacs, each of which 
communicates with a little duct or passage which runs into 
larger ducts called bronchioles. All the bronchioles ulti- 
mately join to form two large tubes, the walls of which are 

surrounded with rings of gristle to 

keep them open, and they are called 
bronchi (bronchitis is an inflammation 
of these tubes). If we started the 
other way and traced the bronchi 
down into the lungs they would be 
found to divide and divide into finer 
and finer branches until finally each 
branch opened into a cluster of the 
tiny air sacs. 

A small piece of the lungs highly pic. s^.-Two Air ceiis (6) 
magnified looks like a bunch of with a bronchiole («) opening 

° ... . into them. 

grapes, the individual air sacs being 

the grapes and the ducts being the stalks. The wall of each 
little air sac consists of little more than a single layer of 
flattened cells, behind which lies a delicate capillary net- 
work ; indeed, the lungs are really nothing but a framework 
for this capillary network, and we can only admire the 
contrivance for getting an enormous surface to carry the 
network packed into such a comparatively small space. 

The blood comes direct from the right side of the heart 
by the big pulmonary arteries to the great capillary network, 
and it is while it is flowing through it that its purification 
has to be carried on. Each red blood cell only takes a 
few seconds to complete its passage through the lungs ; 




68 FIRST BOOK OF PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE 




Fig. 33. — Capillary network of the Lungs. 



it is evident, therefore, that the air in the air sacs would 
soon become very much altered in composition if nature 

took no steps to 
change it. 

How the air is 
changed in the 

lungs.— There is, 

however, a sort of 
bellows in addition 
to pump air in and 
out of the lungs. 
You know that a 
pair of bellows is 
filled with air by 
pulling the two 

handles apart, and by separating the walls of the bellows in 

this way you make a slight vacuum and air rushes in to 

fill it. The body possesses a 

similar apparatus in the chest. 

The chest is really cone-shaped, 

the apex of the cone being at 

the top. As a result of this the 

ribs are short at the top and 

become longer the lower down 

in the chest wall they are placed ; 

they do not run horizontally but 

obliquely downwards, and hence 

when the ribs are raised the 

chest becomes wider. Now this 

is what actually happens when 

we draw in a breath, for the 

muscles which are attached to 

the ribs contract and they pull 

the ribs upwards. Fig. 34.— Right half of the Bony 

rrii • • ^ . Framework of the Chest. (After 

There is a very important spaitenhoiz.) 




RESPIRATION 



69 



muscle called the diaphragm, which is placed between the 
chest and the abdomen, and forms a great flat dome arching 
over the liver, which bulges up into the chest. When we draw 
our breath, the ribs are pulled upwards and the diaphragm 
contracts and flattens itself out, pressing the liver down into 
the abdomen. This means that the floor of the chest is 
lowered and the chest is made longer. We saw, however, 



) 



neck 



necfc' 



chest 



diaphragm 






diaphragm^ 



\ 




A B 

Fig. 35. — Diagram of the changes in the size of the Chest during breathing. 
A . After inspiration. B. After expiration. 

that it was made wider by the raising of the ribs ; therefore 
its size or capacity is increased whenever a breath is taken, 
and air must rush in to fill the extra space. When we let 
the breath out we simply relax the muscles, the ribs fall back 
into their former position, while the diaphragm resumes its 
position, and is arched over the liver once more ; the chest 
is thus made smaller and air is squeezed out of the lungs. 

That is the way in which the air in the lungs is constantly 
renewed. Another thing which helps to make the bellows 



70 FIRST BOOK OF PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE 

very efficient is that there is a great deal of elastic tissue in 
the lungs, and, as they fit closely against the inside of the 
chest walls, the elastic tissue is always exerting a pull on the 
chest walls. Hence, when the respiratory muscles relax at 





Fig. 36. — ^Diagram of the movement of the Chest and Abdomen in quiet 
and in forced breathing. 

n. The heavy outline shows the position at the end of an ordinary 
inspiration. The dotted outline shows the position at the end of a 
forced or deep inspiration. The outline of the shaded portion shows 
the position at the end of an ordinary expiration. 
Left hand figure is that of a man, and the right hand that of a woman. 
(Hutchinson.) 

the end of each inspiration, the recoil of the elastic tissue in 
the lungs helps to pull the chest walls together. 

We draw our breath about seventeen times in a minute 
when we are sitting quietly, but when we are taking exercise 
we breathe more quickly, for the tissues require more oxygen, 
and both the lungs and the heart have to work harder in 
consequence. If the exercise be violent extra muscles are 



RESPIRATION 71 



called into play which help to expand the chest ; in quiet 
breathing the chest is not expanded to its full extent, as 
Fig. 36 shows. 

Girls and boys breathe rather differently ; the chest expands 
more in girls than in boys. Boys use the diaphragm more 
than the muscles between the ribs ; the result is that when 
they draw a breath the chest moves very little, but the front 
of the abdomen bulges because the diaphragm presses the 
liver downwards. 

Trachea and larynx. — The two bronchi join together 
to form the wind-pipe or trachea, which opens into the 




Vocal cords ^''^^^■^^^^ ^^^'I^^Wfe^^^^'^ Vocal cords 



Fig. 37. — View of the Human Larynx from above, as actually seen by 
the aid of the instrument called the laryngoscope. 

A . In the condition when the voice is being produced. 

B. At rest, when no voice is produced. 

throat by means of the larynx. Adam's apple, which can be 
seen and felt in the neck, is simply the upper part of the 
wind-pipe or the larynx, with specially big half rings of gristle 
in its walls. In this are placed the vocal cords — two thin folds 
of membrane which are stretched tightly across it and open 
wider when we take a breath. The voice is produced by air 
passing through these vocal cords. 

The opening into the wind-pipe is provided with a lid or 
little flap which lies behind the root of the tongue and folds 
down over the trachea when food is swallowed. But for 
this arrangement food might get into the wind-pipe. When- 
ever a particle of food or water finds its way into the trachea, 
as it sometimes does when we draw a breath as we are in 



72 FIRST BOOK OF PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE 

the act of swallowing, it sets up violent coughing, which is 
nature's way of getting rid of the foreign body. 

To recapitulate, respiration may be divided into two pro- 
cesses : first, respiration of the tissues which is carried out 
by means of the blood; and secondly, respiration as we 
usually think of it, which has to do with the aeration or 
oxygenation of the blood in the lungs, and deals with the 
mechanism of the ventilation of the lungs. 

Fresh and impure air.— In ordinary air, which is a 
mixture of oxygen and nitrogen, with a trace of carbon 
dioxide, there are nearly four parts of nitrogen to every 
one part of oxygen. In other words, five cubic feet of 
air consists of about four cubic feet of nitrogen and one 
cubic foot of oxygen. In the air we breathe out, however, 
there are not so many parts of oxygen, but instead, there 
is one part of carbon dioxide for every twenty parts of 
nitrogen and for every five parts of oxygen. This is because 
the red cells of the blood have been taking up the oxygen 
molecules and handing back carbon dioxide. We thus see 
that there is a great difference between the fresh air and the 
air we have breathed out of our lungs. If we were to 
breathe the same air over and over again it would become 
still more unlike fresh air. The oxygen would get less 
and less, and the carbon dioxide would accumulate. The 
red blood cells would find it more and more difficult to 
seize the oxygen, and at the same time to get rid of the 
carbon dioxide. All the cells in the body would be gasping 
for oxygen, and they would finally succumb. There have 
been numerous instances of this in history ; we need only 
refer to the case of a ship crossing from Ireland to England 
more than sixty years ago, when seventy-two steerage 
passengers died from suffocation as a result of being confined 
in a very small cabin. 

You have probably noticed on going into a small room in 
which several people had been sitting for some time, and in 



RESPIRATION 73 



which there were lighted gas jets, that unless the windows 
were open it felt very stuffy ; and if you sat in the same room 
you became sleepy and headachy and disinclined for work. 
The cells in your body were suffering from lack of oxygen 
and from too much carbon dioxide ; for if a room is not 
ventilated, i.e. if the air in it is not changed, it is no longer 
fresh air, but becomes more and more like the air we have 
breathed out of our lungs. It is not only human beings 
that use up the oxygen of the air and load it with carbon 
dioxide. Every gas jet does the same thing, and an 
ordinary burner uses up one-half to two-thirds as much 
oxygen in an hour as a man. 

We stated that in the air we breathe out there is one 
part of carbon dioxide for every twenty parts of nitrogen 
and for every five parts of oxygen ; carbon dioxide is 
suffocating, and it has been said to cause death when it 
makes up a twentieth to a tenth part of the air. 

There is a simple way of proving that the air we breathe 
out contains carbon dioxide. If we breathe into a jar 
containing a little lime water, and then shake the jar, the 
lime water will become milky because the carbon dioxide 
has been converted into carbonate of lime. This is one 
of the methods employed to find out how much carbon 
dioxide a room contains in order to test the purity of 
the air. 

There are other impurities and harmful things in the air 
besides carbon dioxide ; the most important of these are 
bacteria. Fresh air contains far fewer bacteria than the air 
in rooms. Some of these micro-organisms may not be 
harmful, but others are extremely harmful. The tubercle 
bacillus, which is the cause of consumption, is one of the 
latter, and the commonest way in which consumption is 
spread is by the tubercle bacillus getting into the air of 
rooms and then being breathed by healthy people. People 
should never be allowed to spit on the ground, because 



74 FIRST BOOK OF PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE 

when the spittle dries, tubercle bacilli, if it contain any, will 
be carried into the air with the dust. Wherever ventilation 
is bad, consumption runs riot. It used to be very prevalent 
in the army and navy because of the bad ventilation of 
barracks and war ships. If you want to keep healthy live in 
the open air as much as you can, and keep the air in your 
rooms as like fresh air as possible. 

Ventilation. — We must now refer to the ventilation of 
rooms and how to change the air of a room so as to keep it 
fresh. It has been found by experience that every human 
being needs a certain supply of fresh air every hour if the air 
of a room is to be kept fresh. This means that the air in the 
room must be changed. A small room contains less oxygen 
to start with than a large one ; and therefore the air in it will 
need to be changed oftener. Now the effect of heating a gas 
is to make it expand, and hence hot air is lighter than cold 
air. This is the explanation of the fact that the air at the 
top of a room is hotter than anywhere else. Whenever the 
air gets heated, it must rise, because it is lighter than cold air. 
In a room with a fire burning the air in the chimney gets 
heated and rises. Cold air rushes in to take the place of 
this heated air ; if the windows or door are open it enters by 
them, if they are shut it gets in through chinks between the 
walls and the windows or door, for no room is air-tight. 
Gases mix by a process called diffusion, and when the fresh 
air enters a room, its molecules dart hither and thither until 
they have penetrated to every corner. 

A fire is one of the best aids to ventilation, because the 
hot air rising escapes by the chimney and thus makes room 
for fresh cooler air from the outside. If the cold air enters 
too rapidly it will be felt as a draught ; this ought to be 
avoided. By keeping windows open a little at the top, the 
cool heavy air which enters falls down into the room 
gradually, getting mixed with the rest of the air in the 
room without creating any draught. 



RESPIRATION 75 



When it is not too cold, then, the windows of our living 
rooms should always be kept open at the top, or the follow- 
ing contrivance may be adopted. A piece of wood the 
breadth of the window and a few inches thick can be placed 
below the bottom sash; a space is thus left between the 
upper and the lower sash through which the air is con- 
stantly entering. In very cold weather, when the windows 
cannot be kept open, they should be opened wide for a 
few minutes to admit a fresh supply of air into the 
room every hour or so. The window in a bedroom must 
always be kept open winter and summer. People do 
not catch cold when they are in bed if they have enough 
bed clothes, and sleep is much more invigorating and 
refreshing if the air is kept very fresh. When we realize 
that an important cause of death is impurity of air, it is 
worth while to pay great attention to the proper ventilation 
of our houses. The ideal to aim at is to have the air as 
much like fresh air as possible. A room should always be 
well aired after people have been in it, by opening the 
windows wide and allowing the air to blow in. 

Deep breathing. — Not only should we ventilate our 
rooms ; we should also ventilate our lungs. We do not 
expand our lungs to their full extent in ordinary breathing, 
nor do we empty them completely. Moreover, the fresh air 
we take into our lungs can only mix with the old air in the 
lungs by the same process of diffusion, as in the case of a 
room. It is evident that the more completely the air is 
changed with each breath, the better will be the ventilation 
of the lungs. It is wise to cultivate the habit of deep 
breathing. For five minutes morning and evening the chest 
should be slowly and steadily expanded until no more 
air can be taken in ; after holding the breath in for a 
few seconds it should be slowly expelled and should be as 
completely driven out of the chest as possible. Five or ten 
minutes' deep breathing practised night and morning in this 



76 FIRST BOOK OF PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE 

way will increase the size of the chest and will give greater 
breathing capacity. Running, climbing, and swimming 
ventilate the lungs automatically by making us breathe 
deeply and quickly ; but the need for oxygen is much 
greater in these circumstances, and the amount of carbon 
dioxide to be got rid of is much greater. 




Fig. 38. — Deep Breathing Exercise, showing the expansion of the 
chest in (2) at the end of inspiration, when the chest is as completely . 
filled with air as possible. 

(i) Position of the chest at the end of expiration, when the chest 
is emptied of air as completely as possible. 

The importance of breathing through the nose.— 

Another habit that ought to be acquired by every one is 
that of breathing through the nose ; for in cities the air 
always contains some impurities — and this is particularly 
true of the air in dwelling houses — and the nose acts 
as a kind of filter. The nose contains a series of little 
bones, which are covered with a spongy mucous membrane. 
This membrane is kept constantly moist by the mucus 
secreted by the little cells it contains, and the air being 
drawn over and between these moist surfaces is warmed and 
moistened and at the same time freed from impurities, such 
as soot and dust. As we have seen, the dust frequently 
contains micro-organisms, and it is neglecting one of nature's 
safeguards to breathe through the mouth. Sometimes there 



RESPIRATION 



77 



is an obstruction — called an adenoid growth — at the back of 
the nose which prevents a person breathing through the 
nose ; if this be the case it should be removed by a surgeon. 
A doctor should always be consulted if a child is unable to 
breathe through the nose. 




air path. 
food path 



Fig. 39. — ^The upper parts of the Air Path and the Food Path. An 
adenoid growth is shown in the hinder part of the nasal chamber. 

Breathing through the mouth is sometimes merely a bad 
habit, and is not due to any obstruction ; in this case great 
pains should be taken to correct it. 



PRACTICAL EXERCISES 

1. Tie a handkerchief or tape tightly round the base of one 
finger and note how the colour gradually becomes bluish owing 
to the blood getting saturated with carbon dioxide gas. The 
tape prevents the blood from getting out of the capillary 
network. 

2. Convince yourself of the widening of the chest on drawing 
your breath by placing a tape round the chest over the lower 



78 FIRST BOOK OF PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE 

ribs and then taking a deep breath. You can measure the 
expansion of your chest in inches. 

3. Get the lungs of a sheep from the butcher and examine 
them. Put them into water and observe that they float. 
Squeeze a small piece of the lung tissue between finger and 
thumb and note the curious crackling feeling due to the air 
being forced out of the tiny air sacs. Observe the rings of 
cartilage or gristle in the bronchi, and on tracing the bronchi up 
to the trachea notice that the rings are replaced by half rings. 

4. Count the number of breaths you take in a minute while 
sitting quietly in a chair. Do the same after running up and 
down stairs or after making yourself "out of breath" in any 
other way. 

5. Pour a little lime water into a wide-mouthed bottle and 
breathe into the bottle a few times ; replace the stopper and 
shake the bottle well ; the lime water will be milky owing to the 
formation of carbonate of lime from the carbon dioxide gas. 

Wash the bottle and dry it thoroughly. Light the end of a 
candle or a small spirit lamp and invert the bottle over it, 
holding it in such position that the flame is just above the neck 
inside the bottle. As soon as the flame goes out, remove the candle 
and pour a little lime water into the bottle ; put in the stopper 
and shake the bottle. The lime water will at once become milky 
on mixing with the carbon dioxide gas produced by the combus- 
tion of the candle. 



QUESTIONS ON CHAPTER VIII 

1. Give an account of the way in which the tissues are pro- 
vided with oxygen. 

2. What is the difference between the colour of the blood in 
the right and left sides of the heart, and what is the cause of this 
difference ? 

3. How does the air we have breathed out of our lungs differ 
from fresh air ? 

4. Describe the trachea and lungs of a sheep so far as their 
structure can be determined without the aid of a microscope. 

(Camb. Jun.) 

5. What do you understand by ventilation ? Explain how a 
fire helps to ventilate a room. 

6. Why is it important to breathe through the nose ? 



RESPIRATION 79 



7. Describe the structure of the lungs. How does the oxygen 
of the external air reach the internal organs ? (Camb. Jun.) 

8. Explain how the air is drawn into the lungs in breathing. 
In what ways does the air breathed out differ from that breathed 
in ? How are these differences produced ? (Oxf. Jun.) 

9. Describe the structure of the lungs. How are they altered 
in size during respiration ? (Camb. Jun.) 



CHAPTER IX 

EXCRETION 

Waste products. — Some kinds of fuel prodyce much 
more ash than others. The housewife dreads a dirty coal 
because it leaves so much ash behind ; and, as you know, 
this ash must be thoroughly removed if the fire is to burn 
well. There are some kinds of fuel, such as oil and gas, 
which produce practically no ash ; this is because they con- 
tain fewer incombustible substances than coal. Much of 
the ash from coal is due to mineral substances present in 
the coal. Whatever the kind of fuel, however, it is mainly 
converted into carbon dioxide and water, which escape into 
the air. It will be interesting to inquire, what sort of fuel 
the food-stuffs make and whether they all produce the same 
amount of ash. 

Fats and carbohydrates, whether they be consumed out- 
side or inside the body, leave practically no ash ; they are 
more or less completely converted into carbon dioxide and 
water, which are seized by the red blood-cells and turned 
out by them into the air in the air sacs of the lungs. With 
proteins the case is different, for not only do they contain 
the elements carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen, like the fats and 
starchy foods, but also in addition nitrogen, sulphur, and 
sometimes phosphorus. When the protein is burnt there is 
always some waste material or ash left; and so the protein may 
be compared to coal, while the fats and starchy foods resemble 



EXCRETION 8r 



oil and gas. Every cell in the body is largely made up of 
protein, and the cell burns some of its own substance in the 
process of life. The waste or ash is thrown into the blood 
stream, with all the waste from the protein of the food, and 
it is evident that the blood would get loaded with these 
waste materials if it were not being constantly purified. You 
may remember when we compared the body to a society of 




Fig. 40. — Plan of a longitudinal section of a Kidney. (Luciani.) 
p. Funnel shaped tube that collects the urine. 

cells, that certain cells were grouped together in the kidneys; 
to act as scavengers and to remove these useless waste 
materials from the blood. 

The kidneys. — Let us consider the kidneys and see how 
they are fitted for their work. Their shape is well known ; 
they lie in the abdomen, just below the diaphragm, on either 
side of the backbone. Each organ consists of the kidney 
substance and a funnel-shaped tube attached to it. This 
tube is carried down to the bladder, which is a sac with 
muscular walls ; a short tube in the female and a longer one 



S2 FIRST BOOK OF PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE 

in the male leads from the bladder to the surface of the 
body. The kidneys secrete the urine ; it trickles down the 
tubes leading to the bladder, where it collects. AVhen 
the bladder is getting full, a message is sent to the spinal 
<:ord and a return message comes to the muscle cells in the 
wall of the bladder to make these contract and squeeze the 
fluid out. At the same time a message to relax goes to a 
ring of muscle which guards the neck of the bladder, and the 
urine is completely expelled from the body. 




Fig. 41.— Capillary Tuft from the Kidney. (Luciani.) 

The kidney is really a collection of minute tubes, which 
all open into the funnel we have already described. Each 
tube is long and narrow and is bent and curled to increase 
its length. The top of the tube is like the tip of a glove 
which has been turned in, and into the little cup formed in 
this way runs a little blood-vessel which breaks up into a 
series of little loops, so that you would see a tiny scarlet 
tuft of capillaries if your eyes were only powerful enough. 
We are looking at nature's tiny filters : into the little cup 
water from the blood is drained as it courses through 
the capillary tufts. 



EXCRETION 83 



r 



We are constantly taking water into the body, not only 
when we drink but also with our food, and unless this 
fluid were removed we should get water-logged. The 
faster the blood runs through the capillary tufts the 
more the fluid drains into the little filter. In some cases, 
where the heart is diseased and is pumping the blood very 
badly, so sluggishly does it flow through the tufts that the 
filters cannot work properly and the tissues do become 
water-logged. This condition is known as dropsy. The 
little tubes- themselves are lined with a layer of very im- 
portant cells, for it is their work to pick the waste materials 
from the blood, which, as we have now learnt, come from 
the combustion of the protein of the food and of the cells 
themselves. 

There are certain mineral substances or salts which are 
picked out of the blood by the kidney cells also. We eat 
a good deal of common salt with our food; for whether 
we add more when the food is served or not, salt is added 
to the food when it is being cooked. It is important that 
there should always be the same amount present in the 
blood, and the kidney cells see to this. Sometimes they 
only pick out a very little salt ; at other times, they remove 
much more because more has been taken with the food. 

The name of the most important waste product excreted 
by the kidneys is urea. The more protein food we take 
the more urea is excreted by the kidneys, and even in star- 
vation the kidneys excrete urea, because the body is living 
on its own tissues or cell protein. 

The lungs. — The kidney is not the only organ which 
gets rid of the water that the body does not want ; the lungs 
serve the same purpose for much of the water which is not 
wanted. A cold day suffices to show what a lot of water 
vapour leaves the body in this way; for each breath appears 
like a cloud of steam owing to the condensation of the 
vapour. 



84 FIRST BOOK OF PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE 

The skin. — There is still another tissue which helps to 
remove water, and that is the skin. Opening on to the sur- 
face of the skin are the minute mouths of the sweat glands. 
These glands are tiny tubes which are coiled round and round 
in the skin, and are surrounded by a fine network of capillary 
vessels. The sweat glands are always secreting sweat, except 
in abnormal conditions, such as fever ; but as a rule it 




Fig. 42. — Coiled Sweat Gland (a) with its duct {b) on the right ; the 
capillary network (c) in which it Ues on the left. (Foster.) 

evaporates as soon as it is formed. When, however, the 
body becomes very heated the blood surges through the 
capillary network, and the glands secrete the sweat so 
rapidly that it forms little beads of moisture on the surface 
of the skin. 

It is interesting to see how the skin and the kidneys 
work together. In very cold weather the surface of the 
body is chilled and the capillary network is comparatively 
empty. As a result the sweat glands do very little work ; 
the kidney cells work extra hard and secrete more urine. 



EXCRETION 



85 



In very hot weather a great deal of sweat is formed and less 
urine is secreted. 

The lower part of the intestine.— While we are 
considering the removal of waste materials from the body 
a word should be said about the lower part of the food 
canal. Many of the foods we eat contain some waste matter 
for which the body has no use. For instance, vegetables 




Fig. 43. — Surface of the Skin, specially treated and magnified to show 
the minute openings of the Sweat Glands. (Luciani.) 



and fruit contain a very large proportion of cellulose which 
the digesting juices cannot dissolve ; it serves quite a 
useful purpose, however, because it excites movements of 
the muscular walls of the food canal, and this causes 
the waste material to be driven slowly along the food 
canal until it leaves the body in the form of stools. 
Micro-organisms are very abundant in the intestine ; they 
are added to the waste, while the remains of the various 
digestive juices and the worn-out cells shed from the lining 
of the food canal all help to form the stools. It is 



86 FIRST BOOK OF PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE 

important that all this waste material should be removed 
daily from the body. If it accumulates, as in the condition 
known as constipation, it may be the cause of much trouble. 
Constipation. — In constipation a daily movement of the 
bowels does not occur. Usually the reason is that the muscle 
in the wall of the large intestine is not as active as it should 
be, and consequently the waste matter from the food does 
not get carried down to the anus. The constipation is cured 
very often if the muscle be given more work to do by eating 
food which contains a great deal of waste matter, such as 
fruit and vegetables and salads. It must be remembered 
that constipation is often a habit. If the normal messages 
from the lowest part of the food canal to satisfy the demands 
of nature are repeatedly disregarded, the brain may get 
into the habit of paying no attention to them. When 
messages received from this part of the food canal are not 
attended to, no orders are sent for the removal of the food 
debris. It is very important, then, to cultivate the habit 
of regularity in going to stool. Physical exercises are often 
helpful in constipation. 

PRACTICAL EXERCISES 

Obtain a sheep's kidney from the butcher ; cut it open by 
dividing it longitudinally into halves. Note the dark reddish 
kidney substance and the whitish funnel-shaped structure which 
receives the urine fcom the kidney tubules. The rest of the tube 
leading to the bladder will have been cut away. 

QUESTIONS ON CHAPTER IX 

1. Explain what is meant by excretion. What organs in the 
body do the work of excretion ? 

2. What are the chief waste products of the body, and from 
what substances do they arise ? 

3. What happens to the waste matter produced in the com- 
bustion of protein ? 



EXCRETION 87 

4. By what channels does water leave the body? Which j 
of these channels is more used in hot weather than in cold • 
weather ? 

5. Why is the lower part of the intestine regarded as an 
excretory organ ? 

6. Describe the position, form, and structure of the kidneys ; 

and state what you know of their functions. (Oxf. Jun.) ^ 

7. What substances leave the body in the urine, and what do j 
you know of their formation ? (Camb. Jun.) ! 

{ 

1 



CHAPTER X 

THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM 

Muscles and their work.— Our muscles are perhaps 
the most perfect servants we possess, for they are in a 
state of constant readiness to carry out orders. They do 
all the heavy work of the community ; with their aid we 
make raids upon Nature's stores in the outside world and 
convey the spoil to the workers in the community of cells 
which make up our body ; we rob the earth of her coal 
and oil to serve the purposes of the community ; and we 
forge her metals and cut down her trees so that we may 
make still further attacks on her. With the added strength 
the muscles have gained, we plough up the surface of 
the earth, and make her bring forth more corn and cotton ; 
we chain the winds of heaven to turn our mills; and we 
make every river work for us. We pile up stones and bricks 
to protect the community from the fierceness of the storm 
and the freezing cold of winter. Of what, then, do the 
muscles consist, and how do they accomplish their work ? 

Structure of muscle fibres.— What we call meat is 
wholly made up of muscle, and, as seen in the butcher's 
shop, it has usually been cut across in the direction of 
the muscle fibres, which gives it a grained appearance. 
A good idea of what a muscle is like may be obtained by 
getting a rabbit which has been prepared for cooking and 
examining it carefully. The whole body, but particularly 



THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM 



89 



the limbs, are clothed with muscles ; on the trunk the 
muscle is present in thin sheets, but in the limbs the muscle 




Fibrous Tissue from a 
Tendon. 



Fig. 44. — A Muscle, showing a Tendon at each end. 

frequently ends in a rounded sinew or tendon, which is 

attached to some bone. 

The tendon is white and glistening, and is made up of 

so-called fibrous tissue, in which the cells have been drawn 

out into long threads all running 

in the . same direction. The 

muscle tissue itself is a great 

contrast to the tendon, for it is 

soft to the touch and can readily 

be torn. The fibres of which 

the muscle tissue is composed fig. 45. 

are very long and thin ; they are 

almost transparent when you look at them through the 

microscope, and they are striped across with the most 

delicate and beautiful lines 
from top to bottom. The 
fibres are embedded in a 
fine network of fibrous tissue 
(like that of the tendon, only 
the fibres are loosely arranged 
in a meshwork instead of lying 
side by side and all running 
in one direction), and the 
whole muscle is embedded in 
a sheath of the same tissue. 

It is this network which carries the blood-vessels and nerves 

to the muscle cells. 

The muscle fibres usually spring directly from the bone, 




Fig. 46. — Loose Fibrous Tissue. 



go FIRST BOOK OF PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE 




Fig. 47- — Muscle Fibres with 
their capillary network. 



but they are often attached to a tendon at the other end, 
which is strong and tough, so that it can bear enormous 
strains. The muscle, then, is attached 
to bone at both ends either directly 
by its muscle fibres or indirectly by 
its means of its tendon. 

How the muscles move the 

limbs. — In order to understand 
how our muscles bring about the 
various movements of the body, 
think for a moment of what happens 
when the string of a bow is tightened 
by pulling it away from the bow : the 
bow bends and its two ends are 
brought nearer together. If, how- 
ever, the bow were made of two 
pieces of rigid wood with a hinge in the middle, the two 
ends of the bow would again be brought closer together on 
tightening the string, but the bending would take place at 
the hinge joint. Now the string of the bow might be 
replaced by a muscle fixed to its two ends ; the contraction 
of the muscle would pull the two ends of the bow nearer 
together. The characteristic of all muscle tissue is the 
power to contract and relax, and when it contracts it 
becomes shorter and thicker, and its two ends are brought 
nearer together. 

The bones of the limbs may be compared to the bow with 
a hinge in the middle ; they are quite rigid and are united by 
movable joints, so that when the muscle contracts the two 
bones are pulled towards one another, and there is a bend- 
ing of the joint between them. This is only one type of 
movement brought about by the muscles of the limbs ; a 
good example of it can be found in the contraction of that 
muscle in the front of the upper arm called the biceps, which 
thickens and bulges out when you bend your elbow and 



THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM 



91 



clench your fist. The upper end of the biceps is fixed to 
the tip of the shoulder blade, and its tendon at the lower end 
is fixed to one of the bones of the fore arm. When the 
muscle contracts, the fore arm is pulled up towards the 
shoulder and the elbow joint is bent. 

There is a muscle on the back of the upper arm which 
acts just in the opposite way to the biceps. It is also 
attached to the shoulder blade above and to the bones of the 
fore arm below, but when it contracts it straightens the 







Fig. 48. — The action of the Biceps Muscle in bending the arm at the 
elbow. 



elbow. These two muscles, then, are antagonists, and there 
are many similar cases in the body of muscles which have 
an antagonistic action. You must not think that there 
is a particular muscle for each movement of the body ; it 
often needs several muscles to carry out what seems to be 
a very simple movement. All the muscles of the lower limb 
are needed to take part in walking ; and to keep our bodies 
upright the groups of muscle down the back of the spine and 
many of the muscles of the lower limb have to work in 
unison. 

In a lean muscular person, the outlines of many of the 
muscles can be seen distinctly through the skin. It is 



92 FIRST BOOK OF PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE 

fascinating to watch the play of muscles in such an in- 
dividual as he boxes or does gymnastics, for the muscles 
ripple under the skin as one movement follows another ; 
every muscle is alert, and probably no single muscle is quite 
idle. 

How the muscles are controlled.— Powerful as the 
muscles are, they would be of no use to us at all unless they 
were under the control of the nervous system. You have heard 
of people being paralyzed, and being unable to move about. A 
completely paralyzed person is confined to bed, but frequently 
it is only an arm or a leg which is partially paralyzed. In 
these cases there is nothing wrong with the muscles, but the 
commands from the brain no longer reach them, because 
there has been an injury to the nerve fibres somewhere 
between the muscle and the brain, and they can no longer 
carry messages. 

Every muscle is supplied with at least one nerve, and if 
this nerve be stimulated the muscle contracts in every case. 
If the muscle in a leg of a frog, which has just been killed, be 
quickly freed from the bone at its upper end so that the little 
nerve running to it can be isolated, a slight shock from an 
electric battery to the nerve will be followed by an immediate 
contraction of the muscle. The same thing will happen if, 
instead of giving the nerve an electric shock, it is pinched or 
touched with a strong acid. 

The muscle can only show that it feels in one way, and 
that is by contracting. Sometimes this is unfortunate. 
When, for instance, a bone is broken, so many urgent 
messages of distress are telegraphed to the brain that the 
excitement spreads to the nerves going to the muscles and 
the muscles immediately contract, which is just the worst 
thing they can do, for they pull on the two broken ends of 
the bone, and make the pain worse. Sometimes the muscles 
complain when they have been worked very hard. You all 
know how stiff and sore you have felt after a hard climb or a 



THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM 93 

very long walk ; the muscles are fatigued, and this is their 
way of expressing it. In the case of the frog's muscle already 
mentioned, when stimulation of the little nerve is continued, 
the muscle gradually contracts less and less well, because 
it has become fatigued, until finally it ceases work alto 
gether ; if, however, it is given a rest and then the nerve is 
stimulated again, the muscle will contract just as well as 
at first. 

After a contraction, the muscle fibres always relax again 
and the muscle resumes its original shape. 

Muscular tone. — When we are awake the muscles are 
never as completely relaxed as they are in deep sleep 
or when a person is unconscious or deeply under the 
influence of an anaesthetic, such as chloroform ; that is to 
say, normally the muscle fibres are taut and when the 
message to contract reaches them they respond at once. 
This condition of tautness or alertness is called muscular 
tone ; in an unconscious person the limbs are all absolutely 
limp, because this tone is absent, and such a person is a 
deadweight to lift. It is owing to the tone of our muscles 
that when we make a false step, as a rule, we instantly 
recover ourselves and do not fall. 

Source of muscular energy.— How is it that the 

muscle can do so much heavy work ? It must be remem- 
bered that although perhaps we are not in the habit of 
lifting heavy weights, yet every day we climb up stairs 
or walk up-hill, and the weight of our bodies has to be 
lifted by our muscles up this height. The muscles thus 
spend a great deal of energy, and unless energy were con- 
stantly being supplied to them in some form or other they 
would soon become bankrupt. Food contains a great deal 
of chemical energy locked up in it, and this is liberated by its 
being consumed in the body. Now the muscles use up the 
food materials brought to them by the blood, and like all 
the other cells of the body they throw their waste into the 




94 FIRST BOOK OF PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE 

blood stream again. The harder they work, the more do 
they take from the blood stream ; they are not altogether 
improvident, however, for they always lay in a store of 
carbohydrate in the form of glycogen or animal starch, and 
.they draw on this first. 

. Formerly it was believed that when the muscles worked 
they used up their own substance, and so it was thought 
that large quantities of the protein food-stuffs were necessary 
when heavy muscular work had to be done. Experiments 
have shown, however, that the muscles use up practically 
none of their own substance when they are working. Sugar 
seems to be the most important muscle food ; and an interest- 
ing fact, which indicates how important the sugars and 
starches are as sources of muscular energy, is that in the 
Russo-Japanese war the Japanese soldiers always went into 
action with their pockets filled with sugar. 

The muscles as a source of heat.— You remember 
that we found the body was like a steam engine, because it 
is fed with fuel in the form of food, and it converts the 
chemical energy of the food into mechanical energy or work. 
Now it, is in the muscles that this transformation of energy 
takes place ; but just as in the steam engine a great deal of 
the energy of the coal appears as heat, and only some of it 
is converted into work, so in the case of the muscles a great 
deal of the energy of the food used by the muscle cells 
appears as heat, while the rest of it is converted into work. 
The heat produced in the process of the burning of the food- 
stuff in the muscle is, however, very useful, for it serves to 
keep the whole body warm. You know how hot you get 
when you take active exercise and make your muscles work, 
and that the best way to warm yourself on a very cold day is 
not to sit in front of a fire but to take a run or a quick 
walk. 

Unstriped muscle.— Hitherto we have been describing 
striped or voluntary muscle, because it is under the control 



THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM 



95 



of the will and we can start or stop a movement at will. 
There are also in the body unstriped muscle fibres (see 
Fig. II {c))j which have very important duties and are not 
consciously under the control of the will; they are called 
unstriped because they are not marked with those delicate 
cross stripes which are characteristic of voluntary muscles. 
The fibres are very much smaller and shorter than the striped 
fibres, and they are arranged in thin sheets, except when 
they are massed together to form one of the muscular rings 
which guard the stomach, for example. 

The food canal is enveloped in such a sheet of unstriped 
muscle ; the walls of the arteries are similarly clothed, and 
the walls of the bladder are largely made up of them. If 
the striped muscles seem to occupy such an important place 
in the community in relation to the outside world, the 
unstriped muscles are no less important in the inside world 
of the body. It is they who take charge of the booty from 
the outside world after it has been put into the mill and has 
been ground by the teeth. These muscles squeeze the food 
down into the stomach, and they never cease to move it to 
and fro all the time it is in the food canal. Slow waves 
of contraction constantly travel along the wall of the food 
canal ; sometimes if an injurious substance has been taken 
with the food, these muscle fibres contract so vigorously 
that the food canal literally writhes and the offending 
substance is hurried along the tortuous canal and ejected 
speedily from the body. This is what happens in diarrhoea. 
In constipation on the other hand, the muscle fibres are 
lazy, and hence it is well to stimulate them by giving them 
food which contains a great deal of indigestible stuff which 
they have to remove from the body. 

We referred to the tone of our muscles and how important 
it is ; we speak of the tone of the blood-vessels because the 
unstriped muscle in their walls is always in a state of slight 
contraction, and only when the sympathetic nerves send a 



96 FIRST BOOK OF PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE 

message that more blood is wanted do they relax, and in 
this way increase the size of the artery so that more blood 
flows along it. 

The heart muscle is specially adapted for its own 
particular work of pumping ; as in the case of the unstriped 
muscle, we cannot interfere with its action at will. 



PRACTICAL EXERCISES 

1. Obtain a rabbit and make out the difference between 
tendon and muscle substance. Note the extreme firmness of 
one and the softness of the other. Convince yourself that the 
muscle is attached to bone both at its beginning and end ; note 
that one joint at least always lies between the beginning and the 
end of a muscle. See what movements you can produce by 
pulling on some of the muscles. 

Notice that the muscle is arranged in the form of sheets down 
the back. 

2. Examine the tendons on the back of your own hand ; 
by holding it in a clawing position you can make them stand 
out ; notice how they run over the knuckle joints. The 
advantage of these long tendons is obvious ; the muscle fibres 
spring from the bones of the fore-arm, but they move the fingers 
by means of the tendon into which they are fixed. The hand is 
much less bulky than it would be if the muscle fibres ran all the 
way down from the fore-arm, and were themselves attached to 
the bones of the fingers. Some of the tendons on the front of 
the wrist can be made out by clenching the fist. 

3. Note the hardening and bulging of the calf muscles under 
your fingers when you forcibly bend your knee. Examine the 
biceps in the same way when you firmly bend the elbow and 
clench the fist. 



QUESTIONS ON CHAPTER X 

1. Describe the changes that take place in a muscle when it 
contracts. 

2. What is a muscle ? Explain with the aid of diagrams how 
the muscles move the bones. How are the muscles themselves 
set in motion ? (Oxf Jun.) 



THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM 97 

3. How do you know that the muscles are under the control 
of the nervous system ? 

4. What is the source of muscular energy ? 

5. How do the muscles help to keep us warm ? 

6. What do you mean by striped and unstriped muscle ? To 
which class do the muscles of the limbs belong ? 

7. Name some of the work performed by unstriped muscle. 



CHAPTER XI 
THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 

The senses. — There is a great difference between a man 
asleep and one who is awake ; all the avenues of approach 
from the outer world are closed for the sleeper, and he 
might as well be without eyes, ears, nose, or sensitive skin. 
He is like a ship on the ocean, which is provided with a 
wireless installation for picking up and transmitting mes- 
sages, but whose wireless operator is not on duty. Wire- 
less messages are not the only messages which travel through 
the universal medium called ether. The sun never ceases 
sending its messages to us as vibrations of the ether, but 
unless we were provided with a receiving station the world 
would be dark for us. Our eyes are specially adapted to 
receive the light rays from the sun, while delicate nerve endings 
in the skin can pick up the heat rays. The ear is practically 
a minute telephone receiver for all the sound waves which 
travel through the air. Other delicate nerve endings in the 
mucous membrane of the nose give us information about 
scent and smell, and others known as touch organs in the skin 
make us aware of the contact of solid bodies with ourselves. 

Information from the outside world is perpetually being 
brought to us by our senses, which hand it over to the nervous 
system. 

The structure of the nervous system.— It will be 
well to consider the structure of the nervous system briefly. 



THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 99 

When it was first formed in the tiny developing human being, 
like the heart, it consisted of a minute tube. As time went 
on the upper end of this tube grew more quickly than the 
rest of it, and bulged out on either side to form the brain, 
and then by degrees the surface of these two outgrowths 
became thrown into folds, so that more of it could be packed 
away into the skull. Nerve fibres grew out from the tube at 
regular intervals to form the nerve trunks. In a grown-up 
person the nervous system consists of the nerves and the 
brain and spinal cord. 

The nerves are made up entirely of the outgrowths of 
nerve cells ; they may almost be looked upon as the feelers 
of the cell, and their sole function is to transmit messages 
to and from the brain and spinal cord. There are two 
sets of fibres, those which carry messages to the brain from 
the various sense organs and those which take orders from 
the brain and transmit them to the muscle cells ; one fibre 
cannot do the two things. The nerves are distributed to 
every part of the body, much like the blood-vessels ; like 
them also they break up into finer and finer branches the 
farther away from their source they get. It has been ascer- 
tained that the message travels at the rate of about 118 feet 
a second in the frog ; it is carried even faster in the human 
being, namely, at the rate of about 472 feet in a second. 
All the nerve cells are situated in the brain or spinal cord, 
with the exception of a few small colonies attached to some 
of the big nerve trunks. 

The spinal cord is like a great thick cable, containing 
bundles of nerve fibres set apart for the different types of 
messages ; some carry complaints of pain, others sensations 
of cold and heat, and others directions for the muscles. In 
the centre of the cord all the nerve cells are placed, and, as 
we shall see, they form so many subordinate stations for the 
government and regulation of the life and activities of the 
living organism. 



loo FIRST BOOK OF PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE 



Cerebelfum 




The brain is made up mostly of nerve cells; the whole 
surface is covered with many layers of them, and they are of 
the utmost importance ; by means of them we do all our 

thinking and all our 
Rlqht Cerebral Hemisphere feeling. The rest of 

the brain is made up 
of fibres, which link 
the brain cells up 
with other nerve cells 
in the brain or spinal 
cord. What an ela- 
borate system of com- 
munication nature has 
provided — an infinity 
of paths for the 
messages and of cells 
to receive them. You 
will remember, too, 
the branching arms 
the nerve cells possess (Figs. 9 and 10), and how these 
interlaced with those of neighbouring cells. 

Sympathetic nervous system.— There is one other 

part of the nervous system which has not yet been mentioned, 
namely, the sympathetic nerves. Just as it is the business 
of the ordinary nerves to keep us in touch with the outside 
world, so it is the business of the sympathetic fibres to keep 
us informed of what is going on in the inside world, that is, 
the society of cells which make up our body. Most of the 
information they carry never reaches the brain, but is dealt 
with by the subordinate stations in the spinal cord. The 
sympathetic system lies in close connection with the biggest 
of our arteries, and in certain places, such as the " pit of the 
stomach," it forms a close felted network. A blow in the 
region of the * " pit of the stomach " may be very serious, 
because of the violent shock to the nerves through the 



cord 



Fig. 49. — A side view of the Brain and upper 
part of the Spinal Cord in place — the parts covering 
them having been removed. 



THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 



sympathetic system. The regulation of the size of blood- 
vessels, the movements of the walls of the food canal, and 
the secretion of the sweat glands are some of the things with 
which the sympathetic nerves have to do. The fibres 
insinuate themselves into all the internal organs, and, as the 
word sympathetic indicates, they keep the cell workers in 
sympathy with one another. 

Reflex action. — Let us return for a minute to the sleeper : 
if we tickle the sole of his foot without waking him, he will 



usclc. 




SKin. 



Fig. 50. — Diagram of a Reflex Arc, showing the direction in which 
the message travels from the skin to the spinal cord, and from the spinal 
cord to the muscle. 

draw up his foot as if he felt what we were doing, and yet 
is evident that he has felt nothing, for on waking he will be 
quite unconscious of the fact that his foot had been touched. 
You may be inclined to think that a message went direct <"0 
the muscles from the sensitive nerve ending in the skin in 
the sole of the foot because the effect took place so rapidly. 
But as every nerve fibre is simply the long arm of a nerve 
cell, the message must run up to the cell in the spinal cord. 
This nerve cell is in close contact with the branches of another 
cell which has an equally long arm stretching right down 
to the muscle of the leg. The message that the foot is being 



.I02 FIRST BOOK OF PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE 

tickled travels across the interlacing branches of the two cells, 
and the muscle cell immediately contracts. Any message 
at all travelling down the nerve fibre to the muscle will make 
it contract, because the muscle can only do this one thing. 
It would make no difference whether you tickled the foot or 
whether you put something very hot to it, or whether you 
gave it an electric shock ; all these things are what are called 
stimuli, and any one of them makes or stimulates the 
muscle to contract. Just as the pulling of the trigger is 
immediately followed by the explosion of the gunpowder in 
the gun, so any stimulus applied to the nerve supplying a 
muscle will immediately be followed by a contraction of the 
muscle. 

The interesting thing about it is that the message from 
the foot never reaches the brain. We know that this is so, 
because in cases where the spinal cord has been crushed so 
that the nerve fibres have been destroyed at the point of 
injury and all messages were, therefore, blocked to and from 
the brain, the same tickling or other stimulation of the skin 
of the foot causes the foot to be drawn away immediately. 
It must be clearly understood that in the case of such an 
injury the person is unable to move a muscle below the level 
of the injury voluntarily, no matter how much they may try, 
because the commands from the brain never reach the 
muscle, but are blocked. The process we have just been 
considering is called a reflex action, which has been aptly 
described as an action that takes place without reflection. 
The movement is carried out automatically when the sensi- 
tive nerve ending is stimulated, without the brain taking any 
notice or troubling itself in the matter. There are a host 
of other automatic actions, such as coughing, choking, 
sneezing, breathing, vomiting, walking, swimming. 

We compared the brain to the centre of government in 
the State made up of the cell workers ; it receives all 
complaints of pain and injury itself, but time is saved if a 



THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 103 

subordinate centre in the spinal cord or lower down in the 
brain issues the necessary commands without waiting for 
confirmation from headquarters. When the child is learning 
to walk, the brain cells have to be consulted about every 
step, because they have to learn just how many orders to' 
issue, and to which particular muscles to issue them. After 
the act of walking has been repeated many times, however, 
the cells in the spinal cord no longer need to consult the 
brain cells, but can control it themselves. This is really 
the way habits are formed. The more automatic processes 
there are in the body the better, for they leave the brain 
cells free to do other things. Skating, swimming, dancing, 
many games and sports have to be learnt slowly while the 
nerve cells in the spinal cord are being educated. After- 
wards, when this education is complete, they become largely 
automatic. The education of the muscle and nerve cells 
often goes hand in hand, and the training of the muscles 
in swimming or cricket, for example, educates the nerve 
cells also. 

Functions of certain parts of the brain.— In con- 
clusion, it is of interest to know that certain parts of the 
brain are specially concerned with certain functions. That 
part of the brain which lies above the ear governs the 
movements of the body. If you have ever seen a person who 
has had an apoplectic shock, i.e. a ruptured vessel in the 
brain which has injured the nerve fibres coming from this 
part of the brain, you may have noticed that the arm v/as 
paralyzed and sometimes the leg was paralyzed too. 
Although the patient was unable to move the arm he felt 
everything quite well, because the part of the brain which 
had been injured had nothing to do with sensation. 

There is a small part of brain tissue on the left side which 
regulates speech, and if this is injured — as it sometimes is 
by the bursting of a blood-vessel — the person is unable to 
speak, although he can eat and swallow. The back part of 



I04 FIRST BOOK OF PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE 

the brain is concerned with seeing. There is a part of the 
brain, called the cerebellum, just below the two hemispheres 
(the two outgrowths which make up almost the entire brain) 
the surface of which is thrown into very fine folds running 
across it from side to side, which seems to act as controller 
of all muscular movements ; if it be absent or diseased, it 
leads to staggering and an unsteady gait. You can easily 
imagine how necessary this control may be, when you 
realize that, even in the simplest movements, a great many 
muscles are involved, and each one must contract exactly at 
the right moment and with just the amount of energy which 
is needed. 

A small part of the brain, which really may be considered 
as the upper end of the spinal cord, presides over some very 
important reflex actions, such as swallowing, choking, and 
breathing. 

The cells of the breathing centre are tremendously 
sensitive to the gas carbon dioxide. As you know, when 
you are running or taking violent exercise, you are producing 
an extra amount of this gas, from the combustion of food- 
stuffs to supply the energy for the contraction of the 
muscles. The blood in consequence has to carry off more 
carbon dioxide than usual, and when it reaches the nerve 
cells in the breathing centre, it stimulates them and they 
send a message to the muscles of the chest to make them 
work harder, so that more air is taken into the lungs 
with each breath, and in this way the accumulation of the 
poisonous gas in the blood is prevented. 



PRACTICAL EXERCISES 

1. Obtain from a butcher the brain of a sheep. Notice of what 
delicate and soft tissue it is made, and see how readily it tears. 
Think how easily it could be bruised by a violent blow or fall 
on the head. Cut a slice out of the brain and observe that there 
is a grey layer on the surface of the brain, while the rest of it is 



THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 105 

white. The white part is made up wholly of nerve fibres and it 
is white in colour because each fibre is wrapped round with a 
fatty sheath. The grey matter is mainly made up of cells. 

Notice that the surface of the brain is thrown into folds. The 
brain of a human being is thrown into many more folds than is 
that of the sheep ; indeed, the most characteristic thing about 
the brain of a man as compared with that of an animal is that 
there is so much more grey matter. 

2. Cross the right knee over the left, then strike the right leg 
sharply with the side of the hand just below the knee-cap ; the 
foot will give a jerk and this movement cannot be controlled by 
the will ; it is a reflex action. 

3. Take a sniff of pepper and note that you are obliged to 
sneeze. In this case the reflex arc or the path over which the 
nerve messages travel is not in the spinal cord but in the base 
of the brgiin, which may be regarded as the continuation of the 
spinal cord. 



QUESTIONS ON CHAPTER XI 

1. Draw a diagram of the nervous system to show the 
different parts of which it is made up. 

2. What are the messages from the outside world which the 
nerves carry to the brain ? 

3. What do you understand by a reflex action ? Give some 
examples and draw a diagram of the pathway of the nerve 
impulses or messages. 

4. What kind of messages are carried from the brain, and to 
what tissue do most of the nerves go ? 

5. Of what use is the sympathetic nervous system to the 
body ? Say what you know about it. 

6. Write what you know about the spinal cord. 

7. Where are nerve cells to be found ? Describe the struc- 
ture of a nerve cell. (Camb. Jun.) 

8. Describe the way in which nerves arise from the spinal 
cord. 

What different kinds of nerve fibres are present in these nerves, 
and where are the impulses which they transmit originated ? 

(Camb. Jun.) 



I 



CHAPTER XII 

THE EAR AND EYE 

The ear is one of the avenues of communication with the 
outer world ; it communicates the messages of sound to the 
brain, where they are explained and utilized. We may be 
warned by sounds of dangers, such as the rapid approach 
of a railway train or of a motor car. Hearing enables us 
to communicate freely with our fellow-beings and to take 
delight in the harmonies of music. When a bell is struck, 
the metal is set in a condition of rapid vibration, and the 
result is a sound. The vibrations may be communicated to 
the ear by a series of waves in the air, or through a solid or 
liquid. Certain sounds are the result of a more rapid vibra- 
tion of the air than others ; the higher pitched and shriller 
the sound, the more rapid are the vibrations. Our ears are 
only tuned to perceive sound waves or vibrations within 
certain limits ; hence, there are sounds in the world which 
we cannot hear. Some people cannot hear the shrill note 
of insects or the cry of a bat. 

The apparatus for receiving" the sound vibrations. 
— What is the mechanism for catching the sound waves ? 
What we are accustomed to call the ear is the least important 
part of the organ of hearing ; all that it does is to collect the 
sound waves. In some animals it is much better adapted to 
this purpose than in the case of ourselves. A dog will at 
once- prick its ears on hearing some unusual sound, and in 



THE EAR AND EYE 



107 



SO doing the ear becomes more funnel-shaped and is able to 
collect more sound waves. 

Deaf people make use of a funnel-shaped ear-trumpet to 
collect the waves of sound more effectively. 

A narrow bony canal leads do.wnwards and inwards to the 
drum of the ear, which is a thin membrane stretched tightly 
across the bony canal. The drum separates the middle ear 
from the external ear. Attached to its inner surface is a 
tiny bone, one of a chain of three which stretches across the 
cavity of the middle ear. The last bone of the chain is 
shaped like a stirrup, and its end fits into a tiny round 
window covered with a thin 
membrane- which separates 
the internal from the 
middle ear. The real 
organ of hearing, or the 
internal ear, is a tiny sac 
with three handles and a 
spiral like the shell of a 
snail. It is filled with fluid 

1 • 1 J 1 J • .^L Fig, 51. — Diagram of the Internal Ear. 

and is embedded in the 

bone. In the spiral there are series of strangely shaped cells 
which receive the vibrations of sound and communicate with 
the nerves which transmit the messages to the brain. 

Let us follow the pathway of the sound wave entering the 
external ear. It travels to the drum and sets the membrane 
in motion ; this throws the little chain of bones in turn into 
vibration, and by means of the stirrup and the membrane of 
the round window the vibration is communicated to the fluid 
of the internal ear. 

The Eustachian tube.— There is an important passage 
called the Eustachian tube which connects the middle ear 
with the back of the throat and nose ; this canal is only 
opened in the act of swallowing. It serves the useful pur- 
pose of keeping the pressure of the air the same on each 




io8 FIRST BOOK OF PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE 

side of the ear-drum. If you have ever climbed up a 
mountain you may have noticed an unpleasant sensation in 
your ears. The explanation lies in the fact that the air was 
pressing more heavily on the inside than on the outside of 
the ear-drum. The air in the middle ear had the same pres- 
sure as that of the place from which you started, but as you 
climbed higher the pressure of the air on the outside of 
the drum became less. Such a sensation is at once removed 
by swallowing ; the Eustachian tube is then opened and the 
outside air communicates with the air in the middle ear. 

The reason why a cold in the head not infrequently causes 
temporary deafness is because the mucous membrane of the 
throat and nose gets swollen and closes the opening of the 
Eustachian tube ; so that even in swallowing it does not open 
and the pressure of the air in the middle ear tends to get less 
than on the outside of the ear-drum. Repeated colds in the 
head are very liable to lead to deafness on this account ; more- 
over, the mucous membrane lining the Eustachian tube and 
the middle ear is continuous with that of the throat and nose, 
and it shares the changes they undergo as a result of colds. 

Blows on the ear are dangerous ; they have been known 
to rupture the drum, and on this account the ear should 
never be boxed. 

Foreign bodies may get into the ear ; children sometimes 
stuff peas or beads into it, and owing to the shape of the 
bony canal attempts to remove them usually push them still 
further in. No attempt to remove them should be under- 
taken by anyone but a medical man. In the case of insects, 
however, which cause great alarm and pain, a little warm oil 
or water may be poured into the ear and the insect will be 
floated out. 

Earache should never be neglected, as it may mean serious 
disease of the ear ; it should always be treated by a doctor. 
Medical advice should always be sought if there be discharge 
of any kind from the ear. 



THE EAR AND EYE 109 

The protection of the eye.— The two eyeballs are 
embedded in bony sockets in the skull, which are provided 
with the overhanging brows. Behind the eyeball there is a 
soft pad of fat, which serves as a cushion and lessens the 
chance of injury to the eye when it gets a blow. It is the 
disappearance of this pad of fat which causes the sunken 
eye of very old or of sick people. 

The eyes are further protected by the eyelids — folds of 
skin containing thin plates of cartilage or gristle. The eye- 
lids are fringed with lashes which help to prevent dust and 
foreign bodies from getting into the eye. A little tear gland 
is placed in each socket of the eyeball, and a continual 
secretion of tears keeps the surface of the eye moist ; a little 
duct opening at the inner edge of each eyelid carries the tears 
away into the nose. In crying, the tears are secreted so 
quickly that they overflow and trickle down over the cheeks 
as the little ducts are not sufficiently large to carry them 
away quickly enough. 

When dust enters the eyes they water involuntarily, and 
this bathing of the eyes with tears helps to wash the particles 
of dust into the corner of the eye. 

Numerous small muscles are attached to the eyeball, which 
enable us to move it about, and by this means the range of 
our vision is extended. 

The eye as a camera. — The eye teaches us a great 
deal about the world in which we live, because it receives 
the light rays, which are continually streaming from the sun 
and are reflected from the earth and everything upon its 
surface. The retina is the seeing part of the eye ; it is 
spread out in the form of a delicate membrane on the inner 
surface of the eyeball, and it is connected with the brain by 
a large nerve which enters the back of the eyeball. 

The eyeball is really a minute camera which is constantly 
photographing the outside world on to the retina. It is 
covered with a strong whitish coat and is filled with a 



no FIRST BOOK OF PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE 



Cornea 



transparent jelly. There is a transparent curved window in 
front through which the light rays enter. Behind this is 
placed the lens of the camera ; it is 
a little clear oval body, shaped like 
two watch glasses placed together 
with the edges touching. Between 
the lens and the window is stretched 
a coloured curtain, the iris, with a 
hole in the middle known as the 
pupil. The iris contains a delicate 
ring of muscle fibres which make 
the opening in the curtain smaller 
when they contract. The iris is the 
diaphragm of the camera. 

The focussing of the light rays on the retina.— 

If you can get a magnifying glass, focus the light rays frorrt 
the sun on a sheet of white paper. You will find that wherk 




Optic Nerve-I- 



Retina 



Fig. 52. — Diagram of a section 
of the Eyeball. 

The dotted line shows the 
path of a ray of light entering 
the eye. 



I 




IT 

Fig. 53. — Diagram showing how the Lens focusses rays of light. 
In I. the rays of light come from a distant source, such as the sun. 
In II. the rays of light come from a source nearer to the lens, and after 

passing through the lens, they are focussed at a point which is 

nearer to the lens than in the case of I. 

you hold the glass at a particular distance from the paper 
there is a bright image of the sun with sharp clear edges ; if 
you move the glass either nearer or farther away from the 



THE EAR AND EYE 



paper the image becomes blurred and less bright. The 
reason is that when light rays strike glass or water obliquely 
their path is altered, and they are bent or refracted. When 
the glass is shaped like the magnifying glass, all the rays 
which strike it are bent towards one another so that they 
eventually meet ; the point where the rays of the sun meet 
is the principal focus of the lens, and the rays are said to 
be focussed at this point. Now the lens of the eye focusses 
the rays of light for us on the retina ; it is shaped exactly 
like the magnifying glass, and it is placed at just such a 
distance from the retina that all the rays of light coming from 
distant objects are focussed there. 

Accommodation. — When we look at a near object, the 
rays of light would be focussed behind the retina instead of 
just on it, unless there were an arrangement to adjust things. 
Accommodation is the name given to the adjustment of the 
eye for seeing near objects. You know quite well that if 
you are taking a photograph of something near at hand you 
have to focus your camera differently from the position for 
a distant landscape view. In a camera this can be done by 
altering the lens or by altering the distance of the screen ; in 
the eye the distance between the lens and the retina remains 
the same, but the shape of the lens is altered. It becomes 
more curved, and it bends the rays towards one another 
more strongly, so that they are again focussed on the retina. 
There is a small muscle in the eyeball which brings about 
this change in the lens. 

The size of the. pupil.— If you look at the pupils of 
anyone's eyes when the sun is shining brightly, you will find 
that they are small ; the curtain has contracted and has shut 
out a great many light rays. On the other hand, if you 
shade the eyes or get the person to turn away from the light 
the pupils will immediately become larger. You may have 
noticed an animal's eyes glowing like lamps in the dark ; this 
was because some rays of light were reflected back from the 



112 FIRST BOOK OF PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE 

retina. In the case of animals the pupils are very big in 
the dark to enable them to catch as many light rays as 
possible. 

Whenever we look at near objects the pupil is smaller 
than when we are looking at the distance; this is because it 
is easier to focus clearly for near things when the outer rays 
reflected from them are cut off. 

Binocular vision. — It is easy to convince yourself of 
the fact that you do not see exactly the same picture with 
each eye. Hold a pencil about ten inches in front of 
your eyes with the window or a picture on the wall for a 
background. Look at the pencil with one eye, shutting the 
other. While the head is kept still, open the closed eye and 
shut the open one ; the pencil will seem to move from one 
side of the window to the other. If both eyes had seen 
exactly the same picture, the pencil would not have appeared 
to alter its position. As a rule we are not conscious of the 
double picture which our eyes give us, for the two pictures 
are interpreted as one by the brain cells. 

Binocular vision, i.e. the result of the combined vision of 
the two eyes, is a great help to us in judging distances and 
position of things in space. The nearer the object is to us 
the greater will be the difference between the pictures of it 
seen by each eye. You can very readily prove this for 
yourself by moving the pencil nearer and nearer to the eye 
in the case spoken of above. The brain automatically tells 
us how far away the object is. If you have ever looked at 
stereoscopic pictures, you will have been struck with the 
way in which everything in the picture stood out, giving you 
the impression that you were looking at solid things instead 
of flattened ones. Two pictures were taken simultaneously 
by a special camera with two lenses, one in the position of 
one eye, and the other in the position of the other eye, 
and the brain combines the two separate pictures which are 
presented to each eye. 



THE EAR AND EYE -113 

Errors in eyesight and the care of the eyes. — 

Defects in eyesight are common ; the eyeball is sometimes 
too long, and then the rays of light are focussed in front of 
the retina, and the person is said to be short-sighted. A 
short-sighted person can always see near objects more clearly 
than distant ones, because, as we have seen, near objects are 
focussed in front of the retina. 



Fig. 54, — Diagram of the normal eye A, the long-sighted eye B, and 
the short-sighted eye C. 

In B and C the dotted line represents the outUne of the normal eye. 
In A the sun's rays are focussed on the retina. 
In B the sun's rays are focussed behind the retina. 
In C the sun's rays are focussed in front of the retina. 

This condition can be remedied by the use of suitable 
glasses, which are exactly the opposite shape to the lens of 
the eye, and therefore help to counteract its effect. This 
glass makes the light rays bend away from one another and 
counteracts the effect of the lens to a sufficient extent, so 
that the rays are focussed on the retina and not in front 
of it. Sometimes the eyeball is too short and the rays 



114 FIRST BOOK OF PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE 

of light are focussed behind the retina. This is remedied 
by placing in front of the eye a glass shaped like the 
lens, which helps to gather the rays together and increases 
the effect of the lens ; the rays are bent more strongly 
towards one another, and are again focussed on the retina. 
It is possible for a person to have such a defect in eyesight 
without being aware of it. The eye is working under 
difficulties, however, and headache is very frequently the 
result. The eyes should always be examined by a doctor 
in cases of headache or where there is any difficulty in read- 
ing the blackboard in school. 

The eyes may be injured, especially in children, if they 
are not well treated ; reading in a bad light or in a light that 
flickers throws a strain on the eyes and may cause trouble. 
The best light for reading is one which comes from behind 
and above, or from the left side and above ; if possible, the 
chair should be moved to such a position as will secure 
this. Too much reading and close work, such as fine 
sewing, is not good for the eyes. Out of school hours 
children should spend as much of their time in the open 
air as possible, for then the eyes are not looking at objects 
close to the eyes. 

Foreign bodies in the eye.— In spite of the protecting 

fringes, particles of dust and small energetic flies sometimes 
find their way through the eyelashes. They cause much 
discomfort and pain, for the eye is exceedingly sensitive. 
They produce a rapid secretion of tears, which often suffice 
— if the eye be kept shut — to wash the foreign body into the 
corner of the eye, where it can be removed with the corner 
of a pocket handkerchief. Another method of removing 
the foreign body may be tried if it is under the upper lid ; 
this may be grasped firmly between the finger and thumb, 
and while looking down, it should be pulled down over the 
lower lid and then released ; the particle of dust may then be 
rubbed off by the lower eyelashes. This operation may be 



THE EAR AND EYE 115 

repeated several times. Opening the eye under water will 
sometimes succeed, and should always be tried if the other 
methods fail. 

It is unwise to persist in attempts to remove a foreign 
body from the eye, as the delicate surface of the eye ma,f 
be injured thereby ; the aid of a doctor should rather be 
sought and the eye should be covered with a folded hand- 
kerchief to serve as a bandage until he can be seen. The 
object of this is to keep the eye as much at rest as possible, 
and the eye can never be at rest if the light be not ex- 
cluded. In all cases where it is known that a particle of 
metal has got into the eye the doctor is the only person 
who should be allowed to remove it. 



PRACTICAL EXERCISES 

1. Convince yourself of the fact that the air in the throat 
communicates with that in the middle ear by closing the mouth 
and holding the nostrils and then blowing ; a feeling of pressure 
will be felt in the ear which is at once removed when you cease 
blowing. 

2. Obtain a bullock's eye from the butcher, and make out the 
following parts : the thick white coat, the clear window or 
cornea, the thick white nerve entering the back of the eyeball, 
and the ends of the small muscles attached to the outside of the 
eyeball. 

Pin the eyeball to a board and cut through the cornea ; 
immediately behind it is the coloured iris which rests on the 
surface of the little round and transparent lens. Behind the lens 
and filling up the rest of the eyeball is a clear jelly-like 
substance. The eyeball should be cut practically in half, and 
the jelly removed so that the lining membrane or retina with its 
dark pigment can be seen. At the point where the nerve enters 
the eyeball it will be seen that there is no retina. 

3. Get a mirror and face the light and look at the size of your 
own pupils. Quickly turn round so that your back is to the 
light and look again at your pupils ; they will be larger than 
when you were facing the light because the iris has relaxed to 
allow as many light rays as possible to enter the eye. 



ii6 FIRST BOOK OF PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE 

4. Obtain two needles or two pencils and hold them up in 
front of the eyes, one in front of the other ; the near one should 
be about eight inches from the eye, and the far one should be 
held at arm's length. Close one eye and look at the near 
needle ; the far one will not be clearly seen ; now fix the eye 
on the far needle and note that the near one is blurred. This 
shows that you require different focussing for near and far 
objects. 

5. To convince yourself that there are limits to the power of 
the eye to focus near objects, hold a pencil out at arm's length 
and then bring it gradually nearer and nearer to the eyes, 
regarding it steadily the while ; the outline becomes blurred 
when it reaches a distance of about five inches from the eye, 
and no effort on your part can make it clear. 

6. The existence of the so-called blind spot can be demon- 
strated. The blind spot is where the nerve enters the eyeball, 
and as it is not covered by the retina it cannot perceive light 
rays. We are in ignorance of the fact that we do not see with 
the whole of the retina, because the blind spot is so small that 
the brain disregards it. 

Shut your left eye and fix the right eye on the cross, then 
move the paper from side to side and note when the round spot 
disappears. This occurs when its image falls on the blind spot. 



QUESTIONS ON CHAPTER XII 

1. How does the sound wave reach the nerve fibres which 
communicate with the brain ? What other medium besides that 
of the air transmits the sound vibrations ? 

2. Which is really the hearing part of the ear ? State what 
you know about it. 

3. What is the Eustachian tube and what purpose does it 
serve ? 

4. Explain why colds in the head may produce deafness. 

5. Name the structures in the eye through which the light 
ray passes in order to reach the retina. 

6. What is the shape of the lens in the eye and what effect 
■does it have on the light rays entering the eye ? 

7. Draw a diagram of the eye with the light rays focussed on 
the retina. 



THE EAR AND EYE 117 

8. What is the pupil of the eye ? What change takes place 
in the pupil when the eye is exposed to bright sunlight and when 
the light becomes very dim ? 

9. What do you know about binocular vision ? Say why it is 
more useful than vision with one eye. 

10. What are the uses of (a) the iris, (d) the lens of the eye ? 
How do they alter when you look at a near object ? 

(Camb. Jun.) 

11. What is meant by the "blind spot" in the eye? How 
would you prove its existence? (Camb. Jun.) 

12. Draw a diagram to show how a clear image of an object 
is formed on the retina. What are the uses of the iris, and in 
what circumstances does the size of the pupil vary ? 

(Camb. Jun.) 



CHAPTER XIII 



HYGIENE OF THE SKIN, HAIR, AND TEETH 



The skin. — Our body is covered with a garment which 
never grows old, for nature is perpetually renewing our skin 
for us. New cells are continually 
forming in the deepest layers of the 
skin, and as they grow they push off 
the old flattened and worn-out cells 
on the surface of the body. You 
must sometimes have noticed a fine 
white powder in the inside of your 
stockings when you took them off 
at night; this is composed of the 
tiny flakes of worn-out skin, which 
get rubbed off by the friction of 
your clothing. Dandruff on the 
head is of the same character. 

Sweat from the tiny sweat glands 
is continually being secreted, but it 
evaporates so quickly, unless the 
skin is very heated, that we are not 
conscious of its presence. It con- 
tains traces of organic substances, 
however, and these are left on the skin. Lastly, there are 
innumerable oil glands which secrete a greasy substance 
that prevents the skin from getting too dry. If these dead 




Tig. 55. — Thin slice through 
Human Skin. (Magnified.) 

The coiled tube on the left is 
-a sweat gland with its duct. 
To the right of this is shown a 
ihair, with its oil glands. 



HYGIENE OF THE SKIN, HAIR, AND TEETH 119 

scales of skin and the remains of the secretions which we 
have mentioned be allowed to accumulate, a disagreeable 
heavy odour develops ; this may be noticed in the case of 
people who do not care for soap and water. 

Cleansing the skin. — Cleanliness of the skin is neces- 
sary if we wish to keep in good health and do not wish to 
be a nuisance to other people. A warm or tepid bath, 
followed by drying and friction with a rough towel, is an 
excellent practice and will keep the skin in good con- 
dition. It may not be possible to get a daily bath, but 
the exposed parts of the body can always be washed 
with soap and water. The whole body can be quickly 
sponged down with hot or cold water and can then be 
dried with a rough towel. A hot bath should be taken 
once a week at least. The use of soap is necessary in 
cleansing the body, because it combines with the greasy 
matter on the surface of the skin and dissolves it ; hot water 
is a great aid in this matter, for it melts the greasy material 
and assists its removal by the soap. 

The practice of taking a daily cold bath followed by 
friction is a good one ; if, however, it is not immediately 
followed by a healthy glow, but by a feeling of chilliness 
instead, it should be abandoned. The cold water takes heat 
away from the body, and this is the cause of the chilly feeling 
that follows a cold bath in some persons. Friction of the 
skin by rubbing it with a rough towel not only rubs off the 
dead scales of skin but also stimulates the circulation in the 
skin and produces a pleasant glow. 

On the face, especially at the sides of the nose, you can 
see tiny pits in the skin which are the openings of the oil 
glands. Sometimes they become choked up with dirt and 
form disfiguring black-heads. The little plugs of cheesy 
matter which collect in the oil glands when black-heads are 
present, should be squeezed out by firm pressure between 
the finger and thumb. This will be made much easier by 



I20 FIRST BOOK OF PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE 

first steaming the face to soften the plugs. Some skins are 
subject to black-heads ; it is well in such cases from time to 
time to smear the face with some form of cream or grease 
and to press this well into the skin. The excess of grease 
should then be wiped oif with a dry towel. This treatment 
will prevent the mouths of the oil glands getting plugged 
with dirt. 

The nails. — The nails are an outgrowth of the skin ; 
they grow from a bed or root which is covered by a fold of 
skin. As the nail grows it is apt to pull this fold of skin up 
with it ; not only is this very ugly but the skin itself is liable 
to be torn because it is put on the stretch. If germs get 
into such a little tear a very sore finger or toe may be the 
result, and it may even lead to the loss of the nail. After 
the hands have been washed in warm water, therefore, the 
skin at the base of the nail should be pressed firmly back 
with the towel or with the finger or a small piece of smooth 
stick. 

You know that the skin contains all the sensitive nerve 
endings which give us our sense of touch ; the skin at the 
tips of the fingers is particularly sensitive and the nails 
protect it from injury. If the nails are kept too long, the 
usefulness of our fingers is interfered with ; if on the other 
hand they are kept too short, the sensitive skin under them 
is exposed. The nails should be kept clean by washing the 
hands with soap and warm water. They should be cut when 
necessary and should never be bitten. Well-kept hands are 
the mark of a self-respecting person. 

The hair. — The hair is also an outgrowth of the skin. 
Each hair grows from a tiny bulb deep down in the skin. 
A small oil gland opens into the hair canal and the oily 
secretion from this gland keeps the scalp and the hair from 
getting too dry. The scalp is just as much in need of 
cleansing as the skin elsewhere, and it is a mistake to 
suppose that washing injures the hair. Daily brushing of 



HYGIENE OF THE SKIN. HAIR, AND TEETH 121 

the hair will remove the dandruff or dry scales of skin and 
will stimulate the circulation in the scalp. 

Falling out of the hair is due to shrinking of the hair 
bulbs ; hair restoring lotions cannot help this, but the friction 
when they are rubbed into the scalp is beneficial. 

Children should be very careful not to wear one another's 
caps and hats, because a disease of the scalp called ring- 
worm is spread in this way ; parasites or small animals, 
which live on the scalp, may also be carried in this way. 
These parasites lay their eggs and glue them on to the hairs 
so that they cannot be washed off with soap and water. 
They are called nits, and may be seen on the heads of dirty 
people. It is difficult to get rid of these parasites, and it is 
not worth while to run the risk of getting them. 

The teeth. — There are still numbers of people who do 
not value their teeth and who simply allow them to decay ; 
this is most foolish, as our teeth are one of our most 
valuable possessions. If our teeth are not sound, we are in 
constant danger of toothache and our health is likely to 
suffer because we cannot chew our food well. 

As you know, nature provides us with two sets of teeth ; 
the baby begins to get his teeth at the age of six months, 
and when he is two years old he has them all — twenty- 
four altogether. They are called the milk teeth. At the 
age of six or seven these teeth begin to drop out because 
they are pushed up from below by the permanent teeth, 
which have been developing beneath them. 

There are thirty-two permanent teeth; these are all 
present by the age of fourteen, except the wisdom teeth, 
which may appear very much later and are sometimes never 
cut at all. If you look at your own teeth in the glass, you 
will see that they have different shapes. The four front 
teeth in the upper and lower jaw are chisel-shaped and are 
specially good for cutting the food. On each side of the 
cutting teeth there is a pointed tooth, which in many 



122 FIRST BOOK OF PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE 



animals is long and very sharp and is known as the canine. 
Next to this there are two small grinding teeth and then 
three very large grinding teeth. You will notice that the 
grinding teeth have flat surfaces so that the food can be well 
ground up between them. 

Each tooth consists of a crown or the biting part, and the 
fang or root, which fixes it in the jaw. The cutting teeth 
have only one root ; the small grinding teeth have two roots 
and some of the big grinders have three. The tooth is 
made of a hard bony sort of material called dentine which 

is full of minute canals. 
■enamel of the crown The crown of the tooth 

enamel of the crown 




cement of the root 



Fig. 56. — A. Vertical; B. horizontal section of 
a Tooth. 



IS covered with a layer 
of ivory or enamel, 
which is very hard 
and does not wear 
down quickly as den- 
tine does, when it is 
used for chewing. The 
enamel may, however, 
get worn right through 
in old people. 

There is a small canal running up the root of the tooth, 
and in it lie a tiny nerve and the blood-vessels of the tooth. 
It is this little nerve which is the cause of nearly all our 
toothache. It really serves a useful purpose, for it acts 
as a danger signal. When the tooth has been attacked 
by decay or caries and the disease is getting near the 
root canal, the nerve sends to the brain messages of 
distress which we feel as toothache ; we are very foolish 
if we take no notice of the warning, for we shall certainly 
lose the tooth. 

This disease which attacks the teeth is due to germs, and 
unless it is checked it destroys the whole tooth. The enamel 
is not so easily attacked as the dentine, and this is why a 



HYGIENE OF THE SKIN, HAIR, AND TEETH 123 

tooth may look quite healthy and may yet be very badly 
diseased inside. The diseased part gets softened and 
gradually melts away ; cavities are formed inside the tooth, 
which becomes nothing but a shell, and finally the crown 
breaks completely away. The disease can be checked, and 
the tooth can be saved, however, if it be treated by the 
dentist. He scrapes away the diseased part, and then he 
fills the cavity with some hard material, after which the 
tooth is again a useful one. The germs cannot thrive when 
the teeth are treated in this way. 

Care of the teeth. — What can we do to prevent decay 
and how can we preserve our teeth? Probably the chief 
cause of decay is the presence of particles of food round 
about the necks of the teeth and in between the teeth. 
Starchy foods are particularly harmful, because they form 
a pasty mass which sticks very closely. It is an excel- 
lent thing to finish a meal with fruit, because the particles 
of fruit clean the teeth. It is very bad to be perpetually 
eating biscuits or sweets between meals, because then 
the teeth are never clean. Pulpy foods are not so good 
for the teeth as food which needs a great deal of chewing. 
The teeth should always be cleaned night and morning 
with a hard tooth-brush and some tooth soap or powder 
or a little baking soda. The brush should be used to 
get between the teeth in order to remove the particles of 
food besides brushing the surface of the teeth. It is in 
the chinks between the teeth that the disease very often 
starts. It is absolutely necessary to visit the dentist regularly 
— at least twice a year — if we wish to preserve our teeth, as 
a tooth may be quite badly attacked without our being 
troubled with toothache. We shall have no pain if the 
decay has not got very close to the nerve ; and the softening 
in the enamel may be comparatively small although there 
may be a big diseased area in the tooth. It is a great mis- 
take to let the tooth get so badly decayed that it has to be 



124 FIRST BOOK OF PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE 

taken out. A tooth should never be removed unless there 
is no possibility of saving it. 

A diseased tooth may be attacked by the germs which 
cause abscesses and boils, and then an abscess may form at 
the root of the tooth — an extremely painful thing, because 
the matter is pent up between the tooth and its bony walls, 
and it has literally to bore its way to the surface ; it usually 
does this by making a gum-boil. 

PRACTICAL EXERCISES 

1. Look in the skin of the face for the little pits which mark 
the openings of the oil glands. Press the finger firmly into the 
hollow at the side of the nose and then rub it on a sheet of white 
paper ; a greasy mark will be left on the paper from the oily 
secretion which has been pressed out of the glands. 

2. The openings of the sweat glands are too small to be seen 
with the naked eye, but their presence is indicated by the beads 
of moisture which form when you get overheated, 

3. Examine your teeth in a mirror and note the different 
shapes of the cutting and of the chewing teeth. 

QUESTIONS ON CHAPTER XIII 

1. What glands are found in the skin and how would you 
demonstrate the secretion from them? 

2. Explain the uses of a hot bath. 

3. Draw a diagram of a tooth, naming the different parts. In 
your diagram show how the tooth is supplied with blood and 
with a nerve. 

4. What is the cause of toothache ? 

5. What do you understand by the care of the teeth and why 
is it so important ? 



CHAPTER XIV 
BODY HEAT AND CLOTHING 

How our bodies keep warm.— We are now quite 
familar with the idea that the body is like a steam engine, 
because it produces heat from the burning of its fuel — the 
food-stuffs. When the weather is cold we need bigger fires 
in the house than in warm weather, and the same thing holds 
good within the body. When it is cold we eat more food 
than when it is hot, and we eat more of those foods, such 
as fat, which produce the most heat. It is in our muscles, 
which form so large a part of our bodies, that most of the 
heat is produced. You will find no difficulty in remembering 
this by recollecting how hot you get when you run quickly or 
when you use you muscles energetically in any other way. 

The usual temperature of your body — tested by putting a 
thermometer under the tongue or right up in the arm-pit — 
is 98-4° F., but after violent exercise it may be several degrees 
higher. In fever, also, the temperature of the body is high, 
and may be as much as six or seven degrees above the normal. 
This is because the internal fires are burning far too quickly, 
and they are using their own substance as fuel. In prolonged 
fevers all the fat that has been stored in the body is 
burnt, and the patient becomes very thin ; the muscles, too, 
begin to waste, because they also are used as fuel. 

How the body loses heat. — So long as the air around 
us is colder than our bodies we lose heat all the time, for 



126 FIRST BOOK OF PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE 

heat always flows from hotter to colder bodies. When we 
get into bed at night the bed is cold, but it soon becomes 
warmed by the heat flowing to it from our bodies. Heat 
goes on flowing from a hot body to its surroundings until the 
temperature of both is the same. It is easy to see what a 
lot of heat the body would lose in the Arctic regions as the 
heat would flow very rapidly from the body to the ice and air. 

There are some substances that let the heat flow through 
them much more quickly than others, and they are said to be 
good heat conductors. You know how hot the handle of a 
silver tea-pot or of a metal kettle becomes when the vessel is 
filled with boiling water. This is because metals are good con- 
ductors of heat. On the other hand, asbestos — which is often 
used in gas fires — is a very bad heat conductor. You could 
quite well hold a sheet of it in your hand without getting 
burnt, although you had heated the other end of it red hot 
by putting it in the fire. If you put a mat of asbestos under 
some hot body such as a hot tea-pot it will prevent the heat 
from flowing to the table beneath. If you covered the whole 
tea-pot with asbestos the tea would keep hot, because the 
asbestos would prevent the loss of heat. If ice were treated 
in the same way it would not melt, because no heat from the 
warmer air would be able to flow through the asbestos. 

In warm, temperate, and cold climates there must be a 
continual flow of heat from our bodies, because the air we 
live in is always cooler than our bodies. 

There is another way in which the body loses heat. The 
little sweat glands of the skin are always busy, although it is 
only when we are very hot that we notice beads of moisture 
on the skin. At other times the sweat which is secreted 
evaporates, and is sucked up by the air so quickly that we 
are not aware of it. If you pour a little methylated spirit on 
to the back of your hand, you will feel a sensation of cold as 
the spirit evaporates and disappears, because the spirit has 
taken heat from your hand. Whenever a liquid is changed 



BODY HEAT AND CLOTHING 127 

from the state of a liquid to that of a gas or vapour it 
absorbs heat from somewhere, and the more quickly the 
change takes place the more rapidly does it absorb heat. 
For the same reason, when you boil water in a kettle, you 
have to supply it with a great deal of heat to make it 
change from the state of water to that of steam or gas. 
The conversion of water into steam is exactly the same 
process as the evaporation of water, only it takes place 
much more rapidly in the first case. One of the quickest 
ways of cooling a hot body would be to wrap round it a 
cloth soaked in ether, because the ether evaporates so 
quickly that it robs the heat at a tremendous rate from 
the hot flask or other body with which it is in contact. 
Such a method is never used in actual practice owing to 
the inflammable nature of ether vapour. 

The regulation of the body heat. — We may now 

inquire whether the body has any means of regulating the 
production and loss of heat. There is a special part of the 
brain which has to do with this regulation. It receives all 
the demands for more heat and the complaints of being too 
hot. It is easier to deal with the complaints than with the 
demands, for a message to the sweat glands makes them 
secrete an abundant supply of sweat, which cools the surface 
of the body by its evaporation. In addition to this, the small 
arteries supplying the great capillary network of the skin are 
directed to dilate ; with the result that the blood surges 
through the network and makes the skin hot, so that more 
heat flows away from the body. The demand for more heat, 
on the other hand, may lead to an increased appetite, and 
when more food is eaten the internal fires burn more actively. 
We make use of clothes from the outside world to prevent 
loss of heat and to complete the process of regulation. In 
fever the brain centre is thrown out of gear ; too much heat 
is produced and not enough heat is lost. As you know, the 
skin in fever is usually hot and dry. 



128 FIRST BOOK OF PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE 

The function of clothes. — Without clothes we should 
fare badly in this part of the world, for we should lose so 
much heat from our bodies that even if we ate enormously 
it is questionable whether we could produce enough heat to 
keep us going. The most important function or use of 
clothes is that of non-conduction. In temperate and cold 
climates they prevent heat flowing away from the body too 
rapidly, while in tropical climates they prevent the heat 
flowing to the body from the sun. This is why a sun- 
helmet must be worn to prevent a man from getting 
sunstroke. 

In the tropics and in very hot weather the skin may get 
badly burnt from the heat of the sun's rays if it is not 
protected by clothing. 

Let us consider the various substances which are used for 
clothing, and let us inquire whether some are better non- 
conductors than others. The animal world supplies us with 
wool, hair, silk, fur, feathers, and leather ; from the vegetable 
kingdom we get cotton and linen. The cotton or linen 
sheets of your bed always feel much colder than the 
blankets, because cotton and linen conduct the heat away 
more rapidly than wool does. Silk does not prevent the loss 
of heat so well as wool, but it does so better than linen or 
cotton. 

The texture of a cloth is another thing which must be 
considered. If a cloth be loosely woven there are many 
tiny air spaces in its meshes. Now as air is not a good heat 
conductor, its presence in the meshes of the cloth makes the 
latter warmer than if it were very closely woven. For the 
same reason, loose clothing is warmer than tight garments, 
and several layers of thin material are warmer than one 
layer of a thick material. A knitted Shetland jacket, though 
very thin and very light in weight, is extremely warm because 
it is so loosely knitted and because the wool itself being 
loosely spun contains a great deal of air. It must be 



BODY HEAT AND CLOTHING 129 

remembered, however, that such a garment is no protection 
against the wind, because the wind blows through it. The 
layer of warmed air next to the body is constantly changed 
by the air blowing through the meshes of the garment ; the 
air is no sooner warmed by the body than it is replaced by a 
fresh layer of cold air. Leather or fur coats are the best 
protection against the wind, because skin is not porous, and 
its texture is very close. 

A very important point in the consideration of clothing 
material is its capacity for holding moisture. You all know 
that cotton and linen things dry much more quickly than 
woollen ones, and that woollen stuff can soak up more 
moisture .than cotton. The moisture secreted by our sweat 
glands is soaked up by our clothing. We have already learnt 
that when a liquid evaporates it absorbs heat from its 
surroundings. Now if the clothing dries very rapidly, as in 
the case of cotton garments, heat will be very quickly taken 
from the body, and there will be a risk of the body getting 
chilled. On the other hand, the moisture only slowly 
evaporates from a woollen garment, and there is less risk of 
getting a chill. The texture of the fabric also affects the 
amount of water which it can hold ; the more loosely woven 
it is the more it can hold. Cotton-wool, flannelette, and 
calico are all made of cotton ; the first-named can hold the 
most water, while flannelette, which is made of loosely spun 
cotton, can hold more than fine calico. But the fact always 
remains that water evaporates rapidly from any cotton or 
linen material. 

Choice of clothes.— There can be no doubt in view of 
these facts as to the nature of the clothing we should wear 
next to our skins. Wool is at once the safest and best. It 
keeps in the body-heat better than the others, and it does 
not allow the moisture which it has absorbed from the body 
to be taken up too rapidly by the air. Flannel or woven 
woollen garments should always be worn next to the skin. 

C.P.H. I 



130 FIRST BOOK OF PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE 

Objections are sometimes made on the score that the rough 
fibre of the wool irritates a sensitive skin. As a rule the 
irritation wears off in a day or two, and where this is not 
the case a mixture of silk and wool or of cotton and wool 
can be substituted for the pure wool. Such a mixture is 
very pleasant to wear, especially if the material be finely 
woven. The more finely woven the fabric the smoother will 
it feel, and the irritation of the skin by pure wool can often 
be prevented by the use of such finely woven garments. 
The practice of wearing cotton or linen garments next to the 
5kin is not a good one, for in winter they are not sufficiently 
warm and in hot weather they are liable to become wet 
with perspiration, and may be the cause of a chill. 

The amount of clothing which must be worn depends on 
the climate and on the season of the year ; the colder the 
.air the more wool do we need to maintain our body-heat. 
There is nothing to be said in favour of trying to harden 
oneself by wearing the same clothes summer and winter, for 
the body loses much more heat in winter than in summer. 
It is foolish not to prevent this increased loss of heat by 
wearing more clothes, for otherwise you will have to produce 
the extra heat required by eating more food. In the Arctic 
regions the only way of keeping in the body-heat is by wear- 
ing furs. 

One of the dangers of being exposed to extreme cold is 
frost-bite. The most usual place for frost-bite is the tip of 
the nose or the ear, because they expose a comparatively 
large surface to the air. People with poor circulations some- 
times suffer from chilblains, which are really like the first 
stage of frost-bite. The blood is almost completely driven 
out of the capillary network of the skin by the cold, then 
later, when the circulation is restored, the network becomes 
too full and the part becomes swollen and uncomfortable. 
Chilblains are particularly apt to occur if the feet are allowed 
to get very cold and are then toasted in front of the fire. 



BODY HEAT AND CLOTHING 131 

Form of garments. — The body should be as evenly 
covered with clothing as possible, and for this reason a com- 
bination is the best form of garment to wear next to the 
skin. 

The corset for girls and women has a bad name, because 
it has been used for tight lacing. Fortunately, a small 
waist is no longer admired, and there is less temptation 
to tight-lace. The worst feature of the old corset was that 
it constricted the lower part of the chest, which is so im- 
portant in breathing, while at the same time it pressed on 
the liver and forced it down into the abdomen. The straight- 
fronted corset leaves the lower part of the chest fairly free. 
One of the uses of a corset is to support the weight of the 
skirt. 

The most important thing about clothing is that it should 
not constrict the body in any way, and that it should hamper 
the movements of the body as little as possible. A very 
simple form of abdominal belt made of woven elastic tissue 
or webbing makes an admirable substitute for a corset," as it 
does not restrict the body in any way, and yet it gives a 
feeling of support. The short ribbon corset is also quite 
a harmless form, and leaves room for free play of the ribs 
in respiration. It is quite possible, however, to do without 
the corset altogether ; in such cases the dress must be made 
all in one, or else the skirt must be made to button on to 
the blouse. The suspenders can be supported by a broad 
band round the hips, which are admirably adapted for carry- 
ing a certain amount of weight. It is not a good thing to 
suspend heavy clothing from the shoulders, as that is un- 
comfortable, and is apt to cause a stoop. Indeed, clothing 
should be as light in weight as possible. 

From the point of view of cleanliness, it would be well if 
we could always wear washing fabrics ; in summer, the use 
of cotton frocks permits this, but in our climate cotton frocks 
have onl}^ a limited period of usefulness. It should be 



132 FIRST BOOK OF PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE 

borne in mind that rough materials pick up the dirt much 
more readily than smooth ones, and for this reason nurses 
wear starched and ironed dresses. 

Dress should be made as attractive as possible. Neat, 
clean, and well-brushed clothes are a mark of self-respect, 
and you will do better work and be a more useful member 
of society if you take a pride in your clothes. Nothing 
produces a worse impression than to be seen with boots 
down at the heels or with holes in gloves or stockings. 

Boots. — No wonder the feet often complain if they are 
not properly clad, for they have to bear the weight of the 
whole body. Corns and bunions develop as the result of 
badly fitting or badly shaped boots. The heel should be 
broad and flat to give the foot as much contact with the 
ground as possible. High heels alter the proper balance of 
the body, and are liable to cause turning of the ankle. 

The sole of the boot should be broad and should allow 
plenty of room for the toes. Crowding of the toes produces 
corns and bunions. 

Falling of the arch of the foot or flat-foot is due partly to 
faulty boots and partly to prolonged standing. Much can 
be done to improve the strength of the arch by doing 
some simple exercises, such as raising the heels slowly from 
the ground while standing, with the toes well turned in ; the 
heels should be slowly lowered again. The exercise should 
be repeated for ten minutes every day. 

PRACTICAL EXERCISES 

1. Procure two bottles of the same size, A and B, and wrap 
round bottle A a piece of calico or cotton fabric wrung out of 
water. Fill both bottles with hot water out of the same vessel. 
Allow them to stand for half an hour, and then test the tempera- 
ture with a thermometer. It will be found that the temperature 
of the water in bottle A is several degrees lower than that of the 
other bottle, because the evaporation of the water has abstracted 
heat from the bottle and its contents. 



BODY HEAT AND CLOTHING 133 

2. Obtain a broad strip of flannel and another of a cotton 
fabric ; wring them both out of water and then wind one round 
each hand. Note which feels the colder, when you wave the 
hands about. 

3. Obtain two similar strips of cotton and dip one in spirit 
and the other in water ; then wring them both out and wind one 
round each hand. Wave the hands about and note which feels 
the colder. Spirit evaporates more quickly than water, and 
therefore robs the hand of heat more quickly than the water. 



QUESTIONS ON CHAPTER XIV 

1. Why is it important that the clothing should be varied 
according to the season of the year? (Oxf. Jun.) 

2. What is the only way in which the body can produce heat ? 

3. Explain how it is that sweating cools the body. Is sweating 
the only way in which the body loses heat ? 

4. What is the chief use of clothing in cold and temperate 
climates ? What kind of material is the best material for cloth- 
ing in such climates ? 

5. What is the explanation of the difference in warmth of a 
garment made of loosely woven cloth and one made of a tightly 
woven fabric ? 

6. What differences, if any, would you make between summer 
and winter as regards {a) food, {b) clothing ? Give reasons for 
your statements. (Oxf. Jun.) 

7. What are the principal materials used for clothing and 
what is the value of each ? What points should be attended to 
in the construction of healthy clothing ? (Camb. Jun.) 



CHAPTER XV 

MUSCULAR EXERCISE— GYMNASTICS. 
REST. SLEEP 

Exercise. — We all have a great admiration for the athlete, 
whether he be a champion golfer, rower, or boxer ; and we 
have likewise a great admiration for the man who can endure 
any sort of hardship, as, for instance, a Polar explorer. We 
know quite well that the athlete would never have won his 
laurels unless he had worked patiently and enthusiastically 
at his particular sport. He had to throw himself heart and 
soul into it ; he had to train. 

Now we may have no ambition to become athletes, but 
it is worth while to take some pains to make our bodies as 
fit as possible and to increase our muscular strength and 
our powers of endurance. That being so, we must not 
leave anything to chance ; we must find out how to set to 
work. 

It is a rule with nature that an organ or part of the body 
which is not used gradually becomes smaller and less able to 
work. The muscles are a striking example, e.g. if a broken 
limb is fixed with splints to prevent movement taking place, 
when the splints are removed at the end of a few weeks, the 
limb will be found to be much smaller than the other, because 
the muscles have wasted from want of use. On the other 
hand, muscles which are much used actually increase in size 
— think of the brawny muscles in the arm of a blacksmith. 



MUSCULAR EXERCISE 135 

Each little muscle fibre becomes bigger when it is con- 
stantly set to work ; the whole muscle consequently becomes 
larger. 

Training'. — When a man trains he gives his muscles 
regular work every day, which he gradually increases in 
amount ; the result is that the work which the muscles did 
with difficulty at first they are able finally to do without 
fatigue. By training, then, a man's capacity for a particular 
kind of muscular work is very much increased, whether it be 
for climbing, walking, running, swimming, or any other sport. 

We must now ask whether muscular exercise has any other 
effect than that of increasing the size and the working 
capacity of the muscles. We know that the muscles contain 
a capillary network, and we can therefore picture to ourselves 
how the blood is squeezed out of it — as it would be out of a 
sponge — every time the muscle contracts. Even the veins, 
taking the blood from the network towards the heart, are 
emptied, for they also get squeezed when the muscles 
contract; the muscles really pump the blood towards the 
heart and make it circulate more rapidly. 

Not only are the waste products formed from the burning 
of the food-stuffs quickly washed out of the tissues in this 
way, but also a more rapid supply of blood is constantly 
coming to the muscles. The heart beats more rapidly and 
we breathe more quickly when we take active exercise ; at 
the same time, the organs which are set apart in the body to 
remove the waste matters are stimulated, and they carry on 
their work of cleansing more energetically. Muscular exer- 
cise, then, has a beneficial effect on the body as a whole. 
An afternoon spent in the open air playing some game leaves 
you with a very hearty appetite and a healthy glow all over 
your body. 

Fatigue. — We cannot leave this part of the subject 
without considering fatigue or the feeling of tiredness. After 
a very long walk, or after climbing a mountain, not only have 



136 FIRST BOOK OF PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE 

you felt very tired but your muscles have been stiff, and this 
stiffness and soreness probably lasted for a day or two. 
Stiffness is the muscles' way of complaining of fatigue. The 
demands you made on your muscles were so severe that the 
waste materials from the burning of the food-stuffs accumu- 
lated in them, and could not be got rid of sufificiently quickly. 
You know from experience that the best way of getting rid 
of the stiffness is to have a very hot bath. The reason for 
this is that when the surface of the body is heated the 
capillary network of the skin is always filled with blood ; 
this stimulates the little sweat glands to secrete and they 
help to rid the body of its waste products. You know, too, 
that it is better to take moderate exercise the next day than 
to take complete rest ; the explanation of this lies in the fact 
that muscular exercise helps the circulation. 

The great difference between a trained and untrained 
muscle is that the untrained becomes much more readily 
fatigued. It is not a good thing to take no exercise for days 
and then to do a big day's walking or climbing, because 
there is a risk of getting over-tired. It is much better to 
take some active exercise every day ; a big day on Saturday 
or holidays will then merely leave one pleasantly tired. 

Different kinds of muscular exercise.— All kinds of 
out-door exercises are good, but some forms exercise the 
muscles more actively than others. Walking is excellent if 
the head be thrown well back and the body be kept erect, 
because it brings so many muscles into play. Walking 
exercise has the advantage of being moderate, and therefore 
it carries with it no risk of chill following overheating. 
Swimming is a particularly good form of exercise for develop- 
ing a straight back and for strengthening the muscles of the 
back. In practically all games the leg muscles are chiefly 
called into play ; we may be quite proficient at a particular 
sport without having all our muscles well developed and 
without carrying ourselves well or possessing a straight back. 



MUSCULAR EXERCISE 



137 



When one group of muscles is persistently used more than 
the others the shape of the body is gradually affected ; the 
labourer who works in the field is always bending towards 
the ground over his work and he becomes round-shouldered 
and round-backed. He uses the muscles which bend the 
body so much more than those which straighten it that 
the latter are not strong enough to counteract the effect of 
the bending muscles. 

Faulty positions. — If a person habitually sits or stands 
in a faulty position, with the head bent and the back curved, 
in time he will develop round shoulders and a stoop; the 
bent back of the student and of the man who bends over his 
desk all .day is familiar to every one. The muscles of the 
back, as you know, straighten the back when they contract ; 
they are stretched and are not made use of when we sit 
huddled up in a chair. If we constantly ignore them and 
make no demands upon them they become lazy and they do 
not do their work' so well. The unused .weapon rusts and 
the unused muscle becomes weak from want of use, and is 
at last unable to counteract the effect of the bad position. 

In boys and girls the bad effects of faulty position are 
greater than in the case of grown-ups, because the bones and 
muscles have not finished growing and the faulty position 
may become fixed and permanent. You remember what 
used to happen to the foot of the high-born Chinese lady ; 
it was tightly bound from infancy so that the muscles could 
never be used, nor was room allowed for the bones to . 
grow. The result, when she was grown up, was that the foot 
could hardly be recognized as a foot, it had become so small 
and misshapen. This shows you that even the bones become 
altered in shape if they be kept long enough in a faulty 
position, especially when they are developing. If you 
develop a bent back the time will come when it can no 
longer be straightened, because the bones will have become 
fixed in the faulty position. 



138 FIRST BOOK OF PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE 



When you are sitting huddled up over your work or over 
a book not only is your back bent but the chest is flattened. 
Now you cannot possibly take a long breath and fill your 
lungs with air in this position ; to expand your chest 
thoroughly you must straighten your back. If, then, you 
grow up with round shoulders and bent back your chest 
will be flat and your breathing capacity will be less than it 





Fig. 57. — Faulty sitting position. 



Fig. 58. — Correct sitting position. 



should be; you will not have as good wind as you ought 
to have, and you will be more liable to certain kinds of 
disease. 

The best way of preventing this condition is never to 
sit or stand in a faulty position, but to sit straight up and 
to walk with the shoulders thrown back so that you can 
draw deep breaths. We are forced to bend over our work 
sometimes, however, and we should try to counteract the 
bad effects of this by strengthening those muscles which 
straighten the back and those which expand the chest. 
As we have seen, swimming is the pastime which does 
this specially, but it is not the only way of attaining our 



MUSCULAR EXERCISE 



139 



object; and there is a way open to every one — gymnastic 
exercises. 

Gymnastics. — Gymnastics are taught in every school 
now, so important are they considered. The great differ- 
ence between gymnastics and other kinds of muscular exer- 
cise is that you can control the muscles to be exercised. 



Fig. 59. — Faulty standing position. 



Fig. 60. — Correct standing position. 



Certain groups of muscles can be exercised alone or can be 
made to work far harder than the others ; thus we have 
a means of strengthening weak muscles and also of increasing 
the muscular development of the whole body. 

A gymnasium is not necessary, although it is an advan- 
tage. The most valuable exercises can be carried out with- 
out any apparatus. The muscles of the chest can be devel- 
oped by practising deep breathing (see Fig. 38), while lying 
flat on the back on the floor with the window open. The 



I40 FIRST BOOK OF PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE 

muscles of the back can be strengthened by several exercises, 
which involve the lifting of the bent back. One of the best 
of these is carried out by lying (see Fig. 6i) face downward 
on a table, with the body as far as the hips projecting 
beyond the end of the table. In the position of rest this 
portion of the body is supported by the hands being 
placed on the ground. The feet may be steadied by a 
person holding on to them or by a strap or towel tied over 
them and under the table. While the exercise is being 
carried out the hands should be placed on the hips. The 
head and chest are then lowered as far as possible, and then 
are slowly raised again to the level of the table, and as far 
above it as possible. This exercise alone, done conscien- 
tiously and with all the attention you can give it, will do 
much to strengthen a weak back if carried out twelve to 
twenty times morning and evening. 

Girls suffer more from weak back than boys ; most cases 
of backache are due to faulty position and a strained con- 
dition of the muscles of the back. Such a simple remedy 
as doing some gymnastic exercises is surely worth using. 

Not only do gymnastic exercises increase the power of 
the muscles, they also increase the flexibility of the body as 
a whole. You probably all know how difficult it is to touch 
your toes with the fingers when the knees are not allowed 
to bend, and yet after practising the movement it becomes 
quite easy. Dancers get extraordinarily supple because they 
continually stretch their muscles and limbs to the fullest 
extent. The most useful body for work and sport is one 
which is very flexible and the muscles of which are well 
developed. This is why every boy and girl should do 
gymnastic exercises and should take a pride in growing up 
straight and strong. 

There are two ways of doing exercises. One way is to do 
them simply because you have to ; they will not do you 
much good, because you will do them badly. The other 



MUSCULAR EXERCISE 



141 




(2) 



(3) 

Fig. 61. — Exercise for strengthening the Muscles of the Back. 

(i) First position. (2) Second position, (3) Third position. 



142 FIRST BOOK OF PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE 



way is to fix your whole mind on what you are doing, and 
not to think of anything else. If you think of the group 
of muscles which you are exercising and do each movement 
as precisely and as perfectly as you can, and if you put all 
your energy into each exercise, so that you really do work 
your muscles, the results will well repay the trouble. Your 
body will become more supple and stronger, and you will 
be able to play a better game and walk longer distances 



Fig. 62. — Exercise for increasing flexibility. 

The first position, sitting upright on the floor, with the legs extended, 
is not represented. The toes are touched with the fingers without any 
bending of the knees. 

without getting tired. You will grow up with a straight 
back and a well-developed chest, and you will be a credit 
to your country. 

Rest— Sleep — Recreation. — Rest is no less necessary 
than work, and if we are to enjoy good health we must take 
enough rest. Nature believes in cycles. A period of activity 
is always followed by a period of inactivity; even the heart 
has a rest, for there is a short pause after each beat, and in 
the pause it recovers itself Sleep is the most perfect form 
of rest because it is shared by every tissue in the body ; 



MUSCULAR EXERCISE 



143 



the muscles are completely relaxed, the heart beats a little 
more slowly, and we breathe a little more quietly; part of 
the brain too is asleep. 

We are constantly spending energy during the day, both 
mental and physical, but at night when we sleep our 
expenditure is at its lowest. The new-born baby wants 



Fig. 63. — Exercise for strengthening the Abdominal Muscles. 

The first position, lying flat on the back, is not shown. The legs 
are slowly raised to the vertical position shown in the figure without 
the knees being bent or separated ; they are then slowly lowered again. 

all its energy for growth ; it does little else but sleep, 
but as it gets older it does not sleep quite so much. 
Babies ought to have fourteen hours' sleep every day 
until they are two and a half, and then twelve hours will 
suffice. 

School children need at least ten hours, and grown-ups 
should have at least eight hours. There are some people 
who always need more sleep than others. It is a great 



144 FIRST BOOK OF PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE 

mistake not to take plenty of sleep ; want of sufficient sleep 
will make you grow old quickly. 

When you are asleep the drawbridge which connects you 
with the outside world is up and all the avenues of approach 
are closed. In going to sleep your eyelids close first, and 
the brain no longer receives messages from them. The 
sense of taste and smell then go, and your ears fall asleep ; 
last of all the skin ceases to feel touch, and the whole body 
is asleep. 

Noises may hinder us from going to sleep because the ear 
cannot help paying attention to them, and so it keeps on 
worrying the brain with them. Cold feet may prevent us 
from going to sleep for the same reason, so that it is better 
to wear bed socks or even to have a hot bottle if we suffer 
from cold feet. You will notice how just before you fall 
asleep your thoughts begin to wander, and you can no long .r 
keep your attention fixed on anything — ideas run through 
your head higgledy-piggledy, — the brain is going to sleep 
and is losing its grip. In dreams we often live in a topsy- 
turvy world, where we are not ashamed of bad deeds and 
where one thing may turn into another without surprising 
us. The brain has given up the reins of government. 

Amusement and relaxation.— Variety is one of the 
most pleasing and desirable things in life. After working 
hard at lessons there is nothing so enjoyable and at the 
same time so beneficial as playing out-of-door games ; the 
attention is directed to something quite different, and instead 
of taxing the brain the limbs are called into play. It is a 
recreation to the brain to turn its activity into totally different 
channels, and it actually rests it. One of the first signs of 
the brain being tired is that you cannot keep your attention 
fixed on what you are doing, no matter how hard you try. 
It is far better when this occurs to take up something quite 
different, something which interests you. 

Whatever you do, whether it is playing or working, you 



MUSCULAR EXERCISE 145 

should do it with your whole being. Everything then will 
be more interesting to you, and this power of devoting your 
whole attention to what you are doing at the time will prove 
to be one of the most valuable qualities you could possibly 
possess. You probably have noticed that you became very 
readily tired when you had not enough to do to keep you 
interested. Perhaps, too, some day when you got up feeling 
very tired, you may remember that all your tiredness suddenly 
disappeared because you heard something very interesting, 
or began to play a game of which you were very fond. 

If you are happy and contented you will be much healthier 
than if you are grumpy and complaining, and you will feel 
much better. The way to be happy and contented is to take 
an interest in everybody and everything in the world around 
you and to throw yourself heart and soul into the pursuits of 
life. Remember that every time you are mean and selfish 
or are angry with some one you are doing yourself an injury ; 
for bad thoughts harm us, and they often lead to bad deeds. 
Every time you think kind and cheerful thoughts you help 
to make other people happier and you are building up 
character and benefiting your own body. 

QUESTIONS ON CHAPTER XV 

1. What effect has regular muscular exercise on the muscles 
themselves and on the body as a whole ? 

2. What is the result of training ? 

3. Why is it bad to sit in faulty positions, especially in the 
case of children ? 

4. Name one advantage that gymnastic exercises have over 
ordinary muscular exercise, and point out some special uses of 
gymnastics. 

5. What happens to muscles that are not used ? How can we 
prevent ourselves from becoming round shouldered ? 



CHAPTER XVI 



MICRO-ORGANISMS 



Bacteria. — It is difficult to imagine living beings so 
small that 25,000 of them, placed side by side, would only 
measure an inch; yet the world teems with these minute 
germs. Their existence was discovered a good deal later 




Fig. 64. — Streptococci bactena. 
(Photo. J. E. Barnard.) 



Fig. 65. — Anthrax bacteria. 
(Photo. J. E. Barnard.) 



than that of the cells which make up our bodies, for much 
stronger magnifying glasses or lens in the microscope were 
needed to make them visible. These micro-organisms, one 
class of which is called bacteria, are of different shape and 
size; there are whole tribes of them which look like full 
stops ; some are like commas, and many of them are little 
rod-shaped bodies. Others again are waved in a spiral 
manner, and some are even branched. 



MICRO-ORGANISMS 147 

Bacteria can multiply with enormous rapidity; one can 
reach its full size and can divide into two in the course of 
twenty minutes, and calculation shows that, if each bacterium 
only divides once in an hour, one individual can produce 
17,000,000 bacteria in twenty-four hours. It is the fact of 
their rapid growth when placed in favourable conditions 
that makes them capable of producing such important 
effects. 

Some of them are provided with delicate little threads 
which act as propellers, and enable them to move rapidly 
about in a liquid, while others are incapable of movement. 

Bacteria are found everywhere, in the air, the water, and 
the soil ; but they are specially abundant in substances 
derived from the dead bodies of plants and animals and in 
the excretions of animals. In other words, complicated 
organic bodies form their food supply, and they are con- 
tinually at work breaking them down into much simpler 
compounds ; thus, the putrefactive bacteria form a great 
army of scavengers, which help to rid the earth of life's 
debris — the dead bodies of plants and animals. 

Like the digestive juices of our bodies, bacteria convert 
solids into liquids, and they spend the energy which the 
animal and plant laboriously stored up during life ; but 
nothing is wasted, for the simple chemical bodies produced 
find their way again into the soil and serve to nourish 
another generation of plants. 

The reason why meat, milk, and other foods go bad, if 
they are kept too long, is because the putrefactive germs 
in the air get into them and then they multiply rapidly and 
manufacture foul-smelling gases. 

Bacteria are killed by being boiled for five minutes. The 
different varieties vary in their susceptibility to heat; they 
are paralyzed by great cold, and are unable to grow and 
multiply. There is always a particular temperature at which 
they flourish best, and for many germs this is just about the 



148 FIRST BOOK OF PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE 

temperature of the body. Now you will understand why it 
is that food goes bad and that milk turns sour so much more 
readily in summer than in winter, and you will see that the 
best way of preventing this is to place the food in as cool a 
place as possible. This is why cold storage is so valuable ; 
it enables us to obtain fresh meat which has been killed in 
another continent months before. 

Bacteria do not like direct sunlight, and they are killed if 
they are exposed to it long enough, hence the importance of 
getting as much sun into our home as possible. 

When they fall upon hard times, with scarcity of food, 
some bacteria are able to go into a resting state ; they form 
spores which are not killed as easily as the bacteria them- 
selves; they can survive being frozen, and they do not 
succumb so readily to heat. When favourable conditions 
are present again, the spores begin to grow and multiply. 

All bacteria require moisture for their growth, although 
they may survive being dried for short periods. 

Friends and foes. — Bacteria are not all destructive; 
some of those found in the soil are building up nitrogen 
for the use of plants ; the pea and bean family are provided 
with little nodules on their roots where colonies of these 
bacteria grow and take the nitrogen of the air to build it 
into forms such as the plant can use. 

Some bacteria cannot live without air — and the oxygen it 
contains, and again there are others which cannot live if 
oxygen be present. The two kinds of germs are frequently 
found side by side ; for instance, when broth or soup goes 
bad, those bacteria which like air flourish in the upper layers 
of the liquid, while those which are injured by it grow and 
multiply in the deeper layers of the liquid. In the treatment 
of sewage, those bacteria which do not need oxygen for their 
growth are encouraged to multiply by the sewage being col- 
lected into a tank, so that they are removed from the action 
of the air. They are very destructive agents, and rapidly 



MICRO-ORGANISMS 149 

reduce all the solid matters in the sewage to the liquid state. 
The destructive action is carried on by the other kind of 
bacteria, which are encouraged to grow by the liquid sewage 
being allowed to flow on to filter beds made of pieces of 
stone, ashes, and sand, so that there is an abundance of air 
and oxygen in the spaces. In this way all the complicated 
organic bodies contained in the sewage are broken down 
and converted into very simple chemical substances, and if 
you saw the sewage after it has been treated in this way you 
would not be able to distinguish it from water. 

We generally speak of micro-organisms as being the 
enemies of mankind, but even our enemies may sometimes 
be made. to serve us if we can direct their energy into proper 
channels. 

So far as we can see, the bacteria which produce disease 
will remain our enemies, but even here there are certain 
things which affect their growth ; fatigue, cold, and want of 
food all make it easier for them to gain a foothold. A person 
in good health is much more difficult to attack than a person 
who has not been living in accordance with the principles of 
hygiene which we are considering. 

There are some bacteria which live in the human body, 
but do not produce disease ; abundant colonies of them 
flourish in the intestine, and most of them are members of the 
great race of putrefactive germs. Although they are harm- 
less, living as they do in the intestine, they would immediately 
produce symptoms of disease if they were introduced into a 
wound or into the blood stream. In the food canal they are 
practically outside the body, for they cannot pass the barrier 
formed by the cells lining the food canal. 

Bacteria and disease. — Typhoid fever, pneumonia, 
diphtheria, and cholera are some of the most common 
diseases produced by bacteria. The particular germ which 
is the cause of the disease grows and multiplies either in 
the tissues or in the fluids of the body, and poisons it. The 



I50 FIRST BOOK OF PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE 

bacteria are the source of the infection, and they are carried 
from one patient to another. 

The typhoid germs flourish abundantly in the food canal, 
and they are present in the stools, and so are constantly 
leaving the body of the patient. Persons may get typhoid 
fever although they have never been in contact with a typhoid 
patient, for they may have drunk water which has been con- 
taminated with sewage. 

We have seen that bacteria can go into a sort of resting 
state when the conditions are not favourable, and that they 
can exist for a long time in this condition and then begin to 
grow again when they strike better times. If the sanitary 
arrangements are imperfect, the stools of a typhoid patient 
may contaminate the ground and the bacteria may find their 
way into a well or stream which is used for drinking pur- 
poses. Many of the typhoid epidemics have been caused 
in this way. 

Protection and infection. — Some bacteria produce 
disease by the manufacture of powerful poisons called 
toxins. Now if such a toxin is injected into certain animals 
it stimulates the blood to produce antitoxins or bodies 
which render the toxin harmless. By increasing the dose 
of the toxin the animal can be made very resistant to 
the particular disease produced by it, and the blood serum 
from such an animal can actually be used in the treatment 
of the disease in human beings. Diphtheria is a disease 
produced by the toxin of the diphtheria bacillus, and it 
is treated with antitoxin procured in this way. Healthy 
persons can be made resistant to certain diseases if they are 
injected with the dead bacteria which produce it, and they 
can eventually stand the introduction of the living germs 
without being affected. Human beings can be protected 
from cholera and plague in this way. Hence by utilizing 
our knowledge even our enemies may be helpful to us in 
overcoming them. 



MICRO-ORGANISMS 151 

Unlike the typhoid bacteria, the micro-organisms which 
give rise to the formation of matter or pus are always present 
in the dust and are practically always found on our skin. It 
is easy to prove this, for if a scraping of skin be placed on 
the food material suitable for the germs there will be an 
abundant growth of these pus organisms. Surgeons take great 
precautions to keep these germs out of the wound when they 
are operating, for if they get into the wound pus or matter 
will be formed and healing will not take place, besides 
which the patient may get blood poisoning if the germs or 
their poisons are carried into the blood stream. 

We have called the germs infective agents, and we may 
now ask if there is any way of killing them. Disinfection 
is the name given to this process. It has been found that 
germs are killed if they are boiled for about five minutes. 
This is a very simple way of destroying them and clothes 
and linen can be readily disinfected in this way. That is why 
a piece of boiled linen is the best dressing to put on any 
wound, and why water that has been boiled may be drunk 
without any risk, or may be used for bathing a wound. The 
hands cannot be boiled, however, but they can be scrubbed 
with soap and hot water, which will remove all the loose 
scales and all the dirt, and then they can be placed for a few 
minutes in an antiseptic solution. The name antiseptic has 
been given to those chemical substances which kill bacteria 
and their spores ; the most important and most commonly 
used are carbolic acid, perchloride of mercury, forma- 
lin, and boracic acid. Dirty wounds should always be 
bathed with a solution of an antiseptic — carbolic acid, one 
part in eighty parts of water, is an excellent thing for this 
purpose, or a solution of boracic acid made by dissolving as 
much of the acid as possible in boiling water, and then 
allowing it to cool. 



152 FIRST BOOK OF PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE 



PRACTICAL EXERCISES 

1. Obtain two ounces of meat and mince it finely ; divide it 
into two equal portions and put these into two wide-mouthed 
bottles A and B. Add about a tea-cupful of water and a pinch of 
baking soda to each bottle. Add ten drops of formalin to B, 
and, after shaking both bottles well, put them aside in a warm 
place. 

Examine the contents of A and B at the end of two or three 
days. In A they will be bad smelling from the gases produced 
by the germs of putrefaction and their colour will have become 
dirty greenish. In B, on the other hand, there will be no bad 
smell and little change in colour, because formalin being a 
powerful antiseptic has prevented the growth of any germs. 



QUESTIONS ON CHAPTER XVI 

1. What great classes of bacteria do you know? What do 
you know about putrefaction and how can it be prevented ? 

2. What different ways are there of killing bacteria ? 

3. How would you free your hands from bacteria, and how 
would you sterilize the dressing for a wound ? 



INDEX. 



Abdomen, 6, 8i. 
Absorption, 8, 40. 
Accommodation, in. 
Adenoid, 77. 

Air, I, 2, 6, 7, 30, 65, 66, 67, 68, 
69, 71, 76, 104, 106, 107, 
108, 125, 126, 128, 129, 
130, 135, 138, 148. 

bacteria in, 73, 147. 

fresh and impure air, com- 
position of, 72. 

ventilation, 74, 75. 
Air-cell, air-sac, 6, 67. 

air in, 68. 
Alimentary canal, 37, 38. 
Amoeba, 12, 13, 16, 62. 
Amusement, 144. 
Anatomy, 2. 
Antiseptic, 151. 
Antitoxin, 150. 
Anus, 7, 37, 38, 42, 86. 
Aorta, 60. 

Apoplectic shock, 103. 
Appetite, 35, 52. 
Artery, 6, 17, 57, 58, 59, 60, 

95- 
Atom, 30. 
Auricle, 56, 57, 60. 
Automatic action, 102, 103. 



Bacteria. See Micro-organisms. 
Backache, 140. 
Backbone, 81. 
Baking-powder, 51, 52. 
Bath, 60, 119, 136. 



Beans, 32, 33, 35, 49. 
Beef-tea, 49. 
Biceps, 90, 91. 
Bile, 39, 40. 
Binocular vision, 112. 
Blackheads, 119. 
Bladder, 9, 81, 82, 95. 
Blindspot, 116. 

Blood, 6, 7, 17, 41, 55, 56, 57, 
58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63, 66, 
67. 83, 96, 104, 130, 135, 
151. 
aeration of, 67. 
circulation of, 4, 55. 
clotting of, 62. 
pathway of blood-cells, 60. 
red blood cells, 17, 61, 62, 

66, 80. 
regulation of blood supply, 

59- 
white blood cells, 18, 61, 62. 
Blood vessels, 6, 7, 9, 18, 21, 
122. 
tone of, 95. 
Bone, 4, 89, 90, 91. 
bone cells, 19. 

bones in different parts of 
body, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 
25, 26. 
structure of, 20. 
Boots, 132. 

Brain, 4, 9, 11, 14, 15, 21, 86, 
92, 100, 102, 107, 112, 144. 
function of certain parts of, 
103, 104, 127. 
Bread, 32, 33, 34, 35, 51. 
Breast-bone, 23. 



154 



INDEX 



Breathing, 4. 




Circulation of blood, regulation 


deep breathing, 75, 76. 




of blood supply, 59, 60. 


through nose, 76. 




Circulatory system, 6. 


Bronchi, 67. 




Clothing, 127. 


Butter, 30, 33, 34. 




choice of, 129, 130. 
form of, 131, 132. 


C 




function of, 128, 129. 


CaHus, 20. 




Clotting of blood, 62, 63. 


Capillaries, 6, 58, 59. 




Collar bone, 24. 


Capillary network, 55, 66. 




Combustion, 2, 4, 9, 65, 104. 


in intestinal vilU, 41. 




Constipation, 86, 95. 


in kidney, 82. 




Cooking, 46. 


in liver, 41, 42. 




action of yeast and baking 


in lungs, 61, 67. 




powder, 51, 52. 


in muscles, 90, 135. 




advantages of, 46, 47. 


in skin, 60, 84, 127, 130, 


136. 


aid to appetite, 52. 


Carbohydrate, 30, 31, 32, 


33. 


changes produced in food 


34. 80, 94- 




by, 48, 49, 50. 51. 


Carbolic acid, 151. 




methods of, 47, 48. 


Carbon, 2, 4, 29, 30, 31, 80 




Corset, 131. 


Carbon dioxide, 2, 7, 18, 


30, 


Cotton, 128, 129, 130. 


42, 51, 52, 61, 66, 72, 


73. 




76, 80, 104. 




D 


chemical test for, 73. 




Deafness, 108. 


Caries, 122. 




Deep breathing, 75. 


Cartilage, 25, 26. 




Dentine, 122. 


Cell. 13 




Diaphragm, 4, 39, 69, 71. 


blood cell, 17, 18. 




Diarrhoea, 95. 


bone cell, 19, 20. 




Diet, 32, 46. 


germ cell, 13. 




choice of, 34, 35. 


gland cell, 18. 




Digestion, 4, 37, 53. 


muscle cell, 16, 17, 103. 




Digestive system, 7. 


nerve cell, 14, 15, 16, 


99. 


absorption, 40, 41. 


100, loi, 103. 




ferments, 42, 43. 


Cellulose, 50, 85. 




organs, 37. 38, 39- 


Cerebellum, 14, 104. 




process in different parts of 


Cheese, 33. 34. 47- 




food canal — 


Chemical elements, 29, 30. 




mouth, 39. 


Chemical energy, 2, 65. 93, 


94- 


small intestine, 40. 


Chemistry, 30. 




stomach, 40. 


Chest, 4, 23, 68, 70, 71, 75 


76. 


Diphtheria, 150. 


138, 139. 142. 




Disease germs, 46, 62. See 


Chilblain, 130. 




Micro-organisms. 


Chyme, 40. 




Disinfection, 151. 


Circulation of blood, 4, 6, 


55. 


Dropsy, 83. 


119. 




Drum of ear, 107, 108. 


arteries and veins, 58, 59. 




capillary network, 55. 




E 


heart, 55, 56. 57- 58- 




Ear, 21, 98, 106, 107. 


pathway of blood cells, 


60. 


foreign bodies in, 108. 



INDEX 



155 



Ear, structure of, 107. 
Earache, 108. 
Eggs, 32, 33. 
Enamel, 122. 
Enemies, i, 149, 150. 
Energy — 

chemical 2, 4, 65, 93, 94. 

heat, 2. 

mechanical, 2, 4, 94. 

muscular, 93, 94. 
Enzyme, 43. 
Eustachian tube, 107. 
Excretion, 80. 

intestine, 85. 

kidneys, 81, 82, 83. 

lungs, 83. 

skin, 84. 

waste products, 80, 81. 
Excretory, system, 9. 
Exercise, 52, 134. 

different kinds of, 136, 137. 

fatigue, 135, 136. 

gymnastics, 139,140,141,142. 

training, 135. 
Eye, 21, 98, 109. 

accommodation, iii. 

binocular vision, 112. 

errors in eyesight, care of 
eyes, 113, 114. 
Eye as camera, 109, no. 

focussing of rays on retina, 
no. III. 

foreign bodies in, 114, 115. 

protection of, 109. 

size of pupil, in. 
Eyeball, 21, 109, 113. 
Eyesight, 113, 114. 



Faeces, 9. 

Fat, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 40, 41, 
43. 47. 50, 51. 80 125. 
cooking of, 50. 
Fatigue, 135. 
Ferment, 39, 40, 42, 43. 
Fever, 125, 127. 
Fibrin, 62. 

Fibrous tissue, 25, 26, 89. 
Fish, 30, 32, 34, 35, 51. 
Flat foot, 132. 



Focus, no. III. 

Food, 4, 8, 9, 17, 35, 38, 52, 

71. 93- 
cooking of, 46. 
preservation of, 148. 
quantity of, 35. 
Food canal, 6, 37, 39, 41, 49, 

85. 95- 

bacteria in, 149, 
Food-stuffs, 18, 29, 30, 31. 

chemical elements in, 29, 30. 

choice of diet, 34, 35. 

combustion of, 65, 80, 125. 

classes of, 32, 33, 34. 

inorganic, 51. 
Foreign bodies — 

in ear, 108. 

in eye, 114. 
Fuel, 2, 4, 80, 125, 



Gall-bladder, 39. 

Gelatine, 49. 

Germs. See Micro-organisms. 

Gland, 8, 18, 38. 

oil gland, 118, 119, 120. 

sweat gland, 84, 118, 126, 
127, 129, 136. 

tear gland, 109. 
Gland cell, 18. 
Glycocol, 29. 
Glycogen, 41, 94. 
Gullet, 37. 
Gymnastics, 139, 140, 141, 142. 

H 

Haemoglobin, 66. 
Hair, 120. 
Headache, 114. 
Health, i, 2, 119, 121. 
Heart, 6, 55, 61, 135, 142. 

contraction of, 58. 

heart muscle fibres, 17, 96. 

structure and development 
of, 56. 57- 
Heat- 
body heat, 125. 

loss of heat, 125, 126, 127. 

regulation of body heat, 127. 

where produced, 125. 



156 



INDEX 



Heat conduction, 126. 
Hip bone, 20, 25. 
Hydrogen, 29, 30, 31. 
Hygiene, 2, 118. 



Indigestion, 53. 
Intestinal juice, 40. 
Intestine, 37, 38, 39. 

large intestine, 37, 42. 

organ of excretion, 85. 

small intestine, digestion in, 
40. 

villi in, 41. 
Iris, no. 



Joints, 21, 22, 24, 25, 26. 

types of, 26. 

K 

Kidney, 6, 9, 19, 84, 

structure of, 81, 82, 83. 
Knee-cap, 24. 
Knee-joint, 24. 



Lacteal, 41. 

Larynx, 71. 

Lens, no, in, 113, 114. 

Linen, 128, 129. 

Liver, 6, 9, 38, 39, 41, 60, 69. 

capillary network in, 41, 42. 

development of, 39. 

glycogen in, 41. 
Long-sight, 113. 
Lungs, 6, 7, 17. 

capillary network in, 67, 68. 

effect of deep breathing on, 
75. 76. 

how air is changed in, 68, 69, 
70. 

structure of, 67. 

M 

Margarine, 34. 

Meat, 30, 32, 34, 35, 46, 48, 51, 

88. 
Micro-organisms, 146, 147, 148, 

149, 150- 



Micro-organisms, cause of putre- 
faction, 147, 149. 
in air, 73. 

in disease, 149, 150. 
in dust, 76. 
form, 146. 

friends and foes, 148, 149. 
growth, habits, 147, 148. 
in intestine, 85, 149. 
in meat, 47. 
protection and infection, 150, 

151- 
in sewage, 148. 
in teeth, 122. 
Milk, 31, 32, 33, 34, 46, 62. 
Molecules, 30, 40. 
Mouth, 7, 37, 76. 

digestion in, 39. 
Mucous membrane, 18, 38, 41, 

76, 108. 
Mucus, 38. 
Muscle cells, 16, 17. 
Muscles, 4, 24, 30, 37, 42, 82, 
88, 103, 109, 125, 134, 135, 
136. 
Muscular system, 88. 
heart muscle, 17, 58, 96. 
how muscles are controlled, 

92, 93- 

how muscles produce move- 
ment, 90, 91. 
muscles as source of heat, 94. 
muscular tone, 93. 
source of muscular energy, 

93. 94- 

structure of muscle fibre, 88, 

89. 

unstriped muscle, 94, 95, 96. 

in eye, no. 
Muscular exercise, 134, 137. 
Muscular fatigue, 135. 

N 
Nails, 120. 
Nerve cells, 14, 15, 99, 100. ioi» 

103. 
Nerve fibre, 99, loi, 102. 
Nerves, 9, 92, 99. 

sympathetic, 95. 
Nervous system, 9, 92, 98. 



INDEX 



157 



Nervous system, functions 


, of 


Respiration, breathing through 


certain parts of brain, 


103. 


nose, 76, 77. 


104. 




combustion of food-stufifs, 65. 


reflex action, loi, 102. 




deep breathing, 75, 76. 


structure and development 


fresh and impure air, 72, 73. 


of, 98, 99- 




how air is changed in lungs. 


sympathetic, 100, loi. 




68, 69, 70. 


Nitrogen, 29, 30, 31, 49, 72, 


80, 


how blood cells get oxygen. 


148. 




66, 67. 


Nitro-glycerin, 29. 




oxygen carrier, 66. 


Nits, 121. 




trachea and larynx, 71. 


Nose, 21, 77, 98, 107. 




ventilation, 74, 75. 


Nucleus, 13. 




Respiratory system, 6. 


Nuts, 33. 




Rest, 142. 

Retina, 109, no, in, 112, 113, 







114. 


Oatmeal, 32, 33. 49. 




Ribs, 23, 24, 68, 69, 71. 


Oesophagus, 37. 




Rice. 32. 33, 34. 35- 


Organism; 13, 31. 




Ringworm, 121. 


Oxygen, 2, 7, 17. 29, 30, 31, 


61, 




65, 66, 72, 73, 76, 80, ] 


[48. 


S 


149. 




Sacrum, 23, 25. 


Oxygen carriers, 66. 




Sahva, 39. 40. 52. 53- 
salivary glands, 39. 


P 




Secretions, 18, 119. 


Pancreas, 6, 9, 38, 39. 




Senses, 98. 


Pancreatic juice, 40. 




Serum, 62. 


Parasites, 121. 




Sewage, 149, 


Peas, 33, 35, 49. 




Short-sight, 113. 


Pelvic girdle, 25. 




Shoulder-blade, 91. 


Pepsin, 40. 




Shoulder-girdle, 24. 


Phosphorus, 30, 31, 80. 




Silk, 128, 129. 


Physiology, 2. 




Skeleton, 4, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 


Portal vein, 41, 60. 




25. 27. 


Potato, 32, 33, 49. 




Skin, 9, 18, 23, 24, 25, 98, 127, 


Protein, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 


35. 


144. 


40, 41, 43, 47, 48. 49, 


80, 


cleansing of, 119. 


81, 83. 




oil glands in, 118, 119, 120. 


action of stomach on, 40 




organ of excretion, 84. 


Protoplasm, 13. 




sweat glands in, 84, 118, 126, 


Pulmonary artery, 60. 




127, 129. 


Pulse, 59, 63. 




Skull, 20, 21, 26. 


Pupil of eye, no, in. 




Sleep, 142, 143. 
Soup, 49. 


R 




Spinal column, 22, 24. 


Kecreation, 142. 




Spine, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 91. 


Reflex action, loi, 102, 104 




Spinal cord, 9, 21, 99, 102, 103, 


Reproductive organs, 6. 




104. 


Reproductive system, 11. 




Spleen, 6. 


Respiration, 4, 23, 65. 




Starch, 30, 31, 32, 33, 39, 50. 5i- 



158 



INDEX 



Starch, effect of cooking on, 49. 

starchy food, 60, 80. 
Stimulus, 102. 

Stomach, 8, 17, 37, 38, 39, 53, 
60, 95. 

digestion in, 40. 
Stools, 42, 85, 150. 
Suet, 30. 
Sugar, 30, 31, 39, 41, 42, 49, 

51, 94- 
Sulphur, 30, 31, 80. 
Sweat glands, 84, 118, 126, 127, 

129, 136. 
Sympathetic nerve, 95, 100. 



Tear gland, 109. 
Teeth, 21, 37, 53, 121. 

care of, 123. 

caries in, 122. 

milk and permanent, 121. 

structure of, 122. 
Temperature, 125. 
Tendon, 4, 24, 89, 90. 
Thorax, 6. 

Toothache, 121, 122, 123. 
Toxin, 150. 
Trachea, 71. 
Training, 135. 
Trypsin, 40. 



Tubercle bacillus, 73. 
Typhoid germs, 150. 

U 
Urea, 83. 
Urine, 9, 82, 84. 



Valves — 

heart, 57. 

vein, 59. 
Vegetables, 34, 86. 

cooking of, 50. 
Veins, 6, 17, 41, 58, 59, 61, 135. 
Vena cava, 60. 
Ventilation, 74, 75. 
Ventricle, 56, 57, 58, 60. 
Vertebra, 22, 23, 24. 
Vilh, 41. 
Vocal cords, 71. 

W 

Waste products, 9, 17, 41, 80, 

81, 83, 86, 135, 136. 
Windpipe, 6, 71. 
Wool, 128, 129. 
Work, 2, 94. 
muscular, 4. 



Yeast, 42, 51. 



GLASGOW! PRINTED AT THK UNIVERSITY PRESS RV ROBERT M ACLEHOSE ANH CO. LTD. 



FIRST BOOKS OF SCIENCE 

Globe Zvo. Price \s. 6d. each. 

A First Book of Botany 

By ELIZABETH HEALEY 

ASSOCIATE OF THB ROVAl, COLLEGE OF SCIENCE, LONDON. 

Guardian. — "Throughout this excellent little book the 'First Book' idea 
is carefully kept in mind. . . . The several chapters on the more important 
natural orders are admirably done." 

A First Book of Physics 

By L. LOWNDS, B.Sc. (Lond.), Ph.D. 

AtheneBU7n. — "The text-book can be thoroughly recommended to school 
teachers as suitable for use in classes beginning the study of physics." 

First Book of Zoology 

• By T. H. BURLEND, M.A., B.Sc. 

Nature. — "Teachers of elementary biology in rural schools will be glad 
of Mr. Burlend's brightly-written and well-arranged introduction to the study 
of animals." 

A First Book of Physical Geography 

By W. M. CAREY, M.A., B.Sc. 

Education. — "Designed to give an intelligent grounding in the principles 
that underlie and control the regional physical conditions, it fulfils its aim 
concisely and clearly." 

A First Book of Geometry 

By J. V. H. COATES, B.Sc. 

Schoolmaster. — " Admirably suited for use in the upper standards of elemen- 
tary schools, and as an introduction to the subject in schools of a higher grade." 

A First Book of General Geography 

By B. C. WALLIS, B.Sc, F.R.G.S. 

Educational News. — " ' A first book of geography should be provocative of ideas and 
suggestive of outlook.' This is how Mr. Wallis sums up the matter in his preface. 
That he has produced such a book is perhaps the best review he could wish." 

A First Book of Chemistry 

By W. a. WHITTON, M.Sc. 

SCIENCE MASTER, HOLLOW AY COUNTY SCHOOL, LONDON. 

Schoolmaster. — " The book is not only interesting but useful, and as a very broad view 
of the subject is taken, it is exactly suited to the requirements of those beginnmg the study 
of chemistry." 

LONDON: MACMILLAN AND CO., LTD. 



FIRST BOOKS OF SCIENCE 

Globe Svo. Price is. 6d. each. 

A First Book of Experimental Science I 

Arranged by W. H. WHITTON, M.Sc. [ 

From Lessons in Science by Prof. R. A. Gregory and i 
A. T. Simmons, B.Sc. 

Educational News. — "This book requires no higher commendation than that it ; 
sustains the high standard set by its predecessors." i 



A First Book of Rural Science ^ 

By J. J. GREEN, B.Sc. j 

Nature. — "The information is correct, and is clearly and concisely set out ; while the < 
order is both logical in method and convenient in practice." 



A First Book of Practical Mathematics ! 

By T. S. USHERWOOD, B.Sc, and C. J. A. TRIMBLE, B.A. >, 

Schoolmaster.— '■^ \t forms a thorough groundwork which should be of value to all 
young students, especially to those who are to proceed to scientific work." 



A First Book of Nature Study 

By E. STENHOUSE, B.Sc. 

Athenceum, — "We can highly recommend these lessons as an introduction to 
nature study. They present skilfully a rich store of facts in small compass." 



A First Book of Geology 

By albert WILMORE, D.Sc. 

HEADMASTER, SECONDARY SCHOOL, COLNE. 



A First Book of Physiology ^ Hygiene 

By GERTRUDE D. CATHCART, M.B., B.Sc. 

A First Book of Commercial Geography 

By T. ALFORD SMITH, B.A., F.R.G.S. 

ST. dunstan's college, catford, LONDON X/infnediatelv 

LONDON: MACMILLAN AND CO., LTD. 









r-i 



o 



-r 



" M-y ' af:;,'. ' 



ner> 



<D 

6 



<g) 


C 


T? 


•rH 


3 


CD 


t^ 


>. 


4^ 


43 


J^. 


&, 


© 




C!5 


«^^ 


1* 


O 


+> 




ti. 


M 


aJ 


O 


Q 


o 


43 


^ 






-3; H 



UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO 
LIBRARY 




Acme Library Card Pocket 

Under Pat. " Ref. Index File." 
Made by LIBRARY BUREAU. 



