E U R O P 
AT WAR 




GRKATFST WAR Ol IIISIORY 
PVith more than zoo illustrations 



WHY AND HOW FUROPF 
WENT TO I lEN, 

GUNS, FOR 1 . Mi .AND 
AIRCRAR Ol IMF WAR- 
RING COUNTRIF^ <)On 
SUPPLY, FIN m: 

KAISER a: i 1 IFR 

GREAT PERSONALITIES- 
STORIES OF ALSA( i LOR- 
RAINE. KIAU-GHAU, KIEL 
CANAL- MAPS -EFFECT 
OF THE WAR ON THE 
UNITED Si AThS. 



iUO BIG PAGto 

200 MAGNIFICENT PHOTOGRAPHS 

75 SUBJECTS COMFLh i L iviAr.> 



^^v^ 




EUROPE AT WAR 



>. UBBBVIVfi 







^_ 5^- SWITZERLAND I 



THE ADVANCE OF THE GERMAN FORCES INTO FRANCE 

The curved arrows show the general direction of the march of the German armies and the points where hostile 
country was entered. The heavy black line shows the high-water mark reached by the German forces, before 
their retreat began. 

The Kaiser's forces are, in order from west to east: i, Gen. von Kluck's army; 2, Gen von Billow's army; 3, Gen. 
von Hausen's army; 4, army under Grand Duke Albrecht of Wurtemburg; 5, Crown Prince Wilhelm's army; 6, army 
under Crown Prince Rupprecht of Bavaria; 7, Gen. von Heeringen's army. 



EUROPE AT WAR 

A ''Red Book'' of the Greatest War of History 



WHY AND HOW EUROPE WENT TO BATTLE — MEN 
GUNS, FORTS, SHIPS, AND AIRCRAFT OF THE WAR- ' 
RING COUNTRIES — FOOD SUPPLY, FINANCES 
— THE KAISER AND OTHER GREAT PER- 
SONALITIES—STORIES OF ALSACE- 
LORRAINE, KIAU-CHAU, KIEL 
CANAL — MAPS — EFFECT OF 
THE WAR ON THE 
UNITED STATES 




With more than 200 illustrations 



PUBLISHED BY 

DOUBLEDAY, PAGE & COMPANY 

FOR 

THE REVIEW OF REVIEWS COMPANY 

1914 



^5^^ 
<« 



Copyright, 1914, by 
DOUBLEDAY, PaGE & CoMPANY 



OCT 23 1914 



©C1.A3S8247 



F 
o 



Page 



CONTENTS 

Europe at War 

Introductory Survey By Albert Shaw 3 

Mainsprings and Backgrounds of the Struggle .... By Louis E. Van Norman 12 

Why the Nations Fight By Albert Bushnell Hart 17 

Teuton vs. Slav By William Milligan Sloane 30 

The Two Germanys By Oswald Garrison Villard 36 

Germany's Fight for Power By Frederick C. Penfield 39 

How THE Nations are Lined up 46 

The Armies and Navies of Europe 

The Armies of Europe By Frederic Louis Huidekopcr 47 

The Navies of the Great Powers at War 57 

How Europe Takes the Field: Mobilization By T. Lothrop Stoddard Si 

The Land and Naval Forces at War 88 

The Air Fleets 89 

The Resources and Staying Powers of the Nations 

Europe's Food Supply in War Time By James Middleton 91 

Europe's Financial Preparation . By Charles F. Speare 95 

Financial Statistics 99 

Personages in the War 

The Kaiser — a Self-drawTi Portrait 100 

The Kaiser and the Mailed Fist 117 

Other Personages 121 

Royal Relatives of Europe By George H. Merritt 132 

Places Important to German Strategy 

Kiao Chau: Why Japan Went to War with Germany . . . By Dr. T. lyenaga 138 

The Story of Alsace-Lorraine 144 

The Kiel Canal and Its Signiiicance 145 

The German Colonies 146 

The United States as Affected by the War 

The Effect on the United States By Frederick Carter 164 

Our Rights and Duties as a Neutral By Charles Cheney Hyde 167 

American Finances By Charles A. Conant 170 

War and Our Ocean Trade By Winthrop L. Marvin 174 

A Chance for American Shipping By Sylvester Thompson 179 



CONTENTS 

The Commissariat — the Red Cross — The Hague Court 

Caring for the Soldier's Health 183 

The Red Cross By Arm Dosch 188 

The World's Court of Arbitration at The Hague 191 

The Onlooking World 

The Last of the War Correspondent 193 

The Socialist Explanation By Joshua Wanhope 194 

The Documents in the Case 

The British "White Paper" 215 

The German "White Paper" 251 

A New British "White Paper" 258 

"How the Franco-German Conflict Could Have Been Avoided" 275 

Miscellaneous Views 

Probable Causes of the European War By Dr. Charles W. Eliot 277 

The European Debacle By Herman Ridder 280 

A Vision of Armageddon By H. G. Wells 282 

Give Germany Fair Play By Hugo Miinskrberg 284 

Annotated List of Helpful Books 286 

Index 291 



ILLUSTRATIONS 



WORLD BATTLES BEING FOUGHT AGAIN 

PAGE 

The Bavarians Before Paris, 1870 . . 19 

"The Conquerors," by Pierre Fritel . . 20 

The Death of Nelson 21 

The Retreat from Waterloo 22 

Koniggratz 23 

The Defense of Champigny .... 24 
The Fatal Charge of the French at Reichs- 

hoSen 25 

■'The Piece in Danger" 26 



THE ARMIES OF EUROPE 

French Troops off for the German Border 

French Algerian Troops (Turcos) 

French Infantry MobOizing 

French Soldiers Resting . 

Field Guns of French Artillery 

French Infantry in Action . 

English Field Baggage Train 

British Cavalry .... 

British Field Artillery . . 

The Coldstream Guards . 

English Infantry .... 

German Infantry in the Field 

"An Army That Runs Like Clockwork" 

German Cavalrymen Armed with Lances 

News Gatherers for the General Staff 

German Artillery in Action 

"A Caravan Loaded with Death" 

German OflGicers Mining a Bridge . 

German Sappers Setting Torpedoes 

The German Emperor on the Field 

Conscription in Russia .... 

Russian Cavalry on the March 

"The Bear That Walks Like a Man' 

Russian Field Artillery . 

Russian Sappers .... 

Belgian Chasseurs at Louvain 

Belgian Troops in Liege 

Types of Austrian OflScers . 

Austrian Cavalry .... 

Austrian Mountain Artillery 

Italian Infantry Crossing a Dangerous Pass 



59 
60 
60 
60 
61 
61 
62 
62 
62 
63 
63 
64 

65 
66 
66 
67 
67 
68 
68 
68 
69 
69 
70 
70 
70 
71 
71 
72 
72 
73 
73 



PAGE 

New Equipment of the Austrian Infantry 73 

Montenegrin Troops 74 

Servian Guns on the March .... 74 

THE NAVIES OF EUROPE 

Britain's Stronghold in Asia: Hong-Kong 107 

Gibraltar, The Key to the Mediterranean 107 

"The Mastery of the Seas" .... 108 

The Mollke, A German Dreadnought . . 108 

The British Home Fleet 109 

One of France's Big Battleships: The 

Dreadnought Coubert 109 

British Coast Guard Manoeuvres . . . no 

Closing a Port to Foreign Warships . . no 

Night View of the British Home Fleet . . in 

Armored Train for Defence of English Coast in 

The German Fleet 112 

German Submarines in Port at Wilhelms- 

hafen 113 

Flotilla of German Destroyers . . . 113 

Germany's Foes on the Water .... 114 

An Airship on a Sea Ship 114 

THE KAISER 

Portrait of the Kaiser 147 

One Year Old 148 

Eight Years Old 148 

Ten Years Old 148 

Fourteen Years Old 148 

At Twenty 149 

At Twenty-Two 149 

In His Coronation Year, 1888 .... 149 

After Four Years of Rule 149 

For Ten Years, "The Kaiser" . . . 149 

In Summer Garb at Corfu 15a 

With the Duke of Connaught . . . 150 

With the Kaiserin 150 

The Sea Lord 150 

With King George of England . . . . 151 

With King Albert of Belgium . . . . 151 

With the Czar 151 

Three Kaisers and the Crown Prince . 152 

Three Generations 152 



ILLUSTRATIONS 



The Kaiser and His Six Sons .... 

The Crown Prince 

The Kaiser's Daughter 

The Kaiser and the Kaiserm .... 

As a Highlander 

As Frederick the Great 

Out of Uniform 

In Undress Uniform 

The Bag 

The Withered Arm 

Stolzenfels 

Imperial Palace in Berlin 

Throne Room in Berlin 

Italian Palace in Corfu 

Hoch! der Kaiser 

The Kaiser with His Generals .... 

The Kaiser and Colonel Roosevelt 

The Kaiser, King Edward VII, and King 

Alphonso 

The Kaiser Greeting Franz Joseph . . 

The Kaiser at a Review 

Dropping the Pilot 

The New Pilot 

A Sermon on the Hohenzollern ... 
"Our Future is on the Sea" . . . . 

A Recent Picture 

The Kaiser with His Chief of Stall . . 
The Kaiser in Uhlan Uniform . . . . 
The Kaiser in Hunting Costume . 

PERSONAGES 



PAGE 

152 

153 
153 
153 
154 
154 
154 
154 
iSS 
155 
156 
156 
156 
156 
157 
157 
158 

158 
159 
159 
160 
160 
160 
160 
161 
161 
162 
162 



19s 



Prime Minister Pashitch of Servia 
General Putnik, Chief of the Servian Gen- 
eral Staff 19s 

King Peter of Servia igS 

Kaiser William II of Germany. . . . 196 

The " Iron Chancellor " and the Kaiser . . 197 

General Field Marshal Von der Goltz . 197 
Admiral Von Tirpitz, Chief of the German 

Admiralty 198 

The Imperial Chancellor, Von Bethmann- 

Hollweg . 198 

General Von Moltke, Chief of Staff . . 19S 

Minister of War, General Von Falkenhayn 198 

Emperor Francis Joseph 199 

Count Berchtold, Austrian Premier . . 200 
Count Von Hotzendorf, Head of Austrian 

Army 200 

Archduke Charles Francis, Heir to Austrian 

Throne 200 



Emperor Francis Joseph and the Murdered 

Archduke, Francis Ferdinand . . . 201 

The Arrest of the Assassin in Serajevo . . 201 
General Joffre, Commander of the French 

Armies 202 

M. Delcasse, Father of the Entente Cordiale 202 

Premier Viviani of France 202 

M. Raymond Poincare, President of France 203 

Sir Edward Grey and Premier Ascjuith . . 204 

Earl Kitchener and Sir John D. P. French 205 

The Directors of England's Destiny at Sea 206 
An Unnatural Alliance — The Czar and 

King George V 207 

Russian Minister of Foreign Affairs and 

the Russian Ambassador to Germany . 208 

Grand Duke Nikolas Nikolaivitch . . 208 

General Sukhomlinoff 209 

The Czar and President Poincare . . . 209 

The King of "The Cockpit of Europe" . 210 
The Marquis of San GiuUano and Victor 

Emmanuel III 210 

WAR NEWS PICTURES 

Germans in the Trenches 227 

Belgians in Open Order 227 

German Motor Battery 228 

Off for the Front 228 

In Camp in Brussels 228 

German Transport Wagons 228 

German Infantry Entering Brussels . . 22S 
Effect of Zeppelin Bombs Dropped Into the 

Streets of Antwerp 229 

Belgians Awaiting Uhlans 230 

A Fighting Belgian 230 

General Leman, Defender of Liege . . 230 

Defenders of Liege, Resting .... 230 

The Result of German Fire .... 231 

Belgians Burning Cottages 231 

Belgian People Fleeing from Louvain . 231 

The Women Left Behind 232 

Tj-pes of Soldiers Fightmg Under the French 

Flag 233 

British Light Infantry 234 

Prince of Wales With His Regiment . . . 234 

British Troops Commandeering Horses 234 

King George Inspecting the Veterans . 235 

Britain's Call to Arms 235 

British Highlanders Landing at Boulogne 235 

Russian Reservists 236 

Czar Sampling Soldiers' Food .... 236 



ILLUSTRATIONS 



Russian Artillery on the Way to the Front 236 
Singing and Shouting Crowds in Brussels 

and Belgrade 237 

Railway Destroyed by Belgians . . . 238 
Reaping Grain and Digging Trenches in 

Belgium 23S 

Sortie by Belgian Cavalry 238 

Brussels Women Waiting for Weekly Al- 
lowance 239 

Women and Children Waiting Money Al- 
lowed by French Government . . . 239 

Defenders of Liege 240 

The French in Action 240 

French Army in Camp 240 

Belgian Battery on the March . . . 240 

Wounded German Cared for by Belgians 241 
American Red Cross Nurses . . . .241 

Germans Carrying Wounded .... 241 

The Florence Nightingale of Servia . . 241 

French Water Supply Motors .... 242 

British Maxim Gun 242 

Belgian Light Artillery 242 

FORTIFICATIONS AND MISCELLANEOUS 

French Field Telegraph 259 

English Field Telephone 259 

Belgian Armored Automobile .... 260 

French Automobile Artillery Train . . 260 

Transporting Artillery Across a Stream 260 

English, French, and German Dirigibles 261 

Armored Biplane with Rapid-Fire Gun . 262 

Bomb Dropping Apparatus on Aeroplane . 262 



Armored Monoplane with Rapid-Fire Gun 262 
Cities in the Thick of War; Belgrade, 

Namur, Antwerp 263 

King Albert of Belgium 264 

Brussels 264 

Count Okuma, Premier of Japan . . . 265 
Count Oka, Japan's War JNIinister . . 265 
Vice-Admiral Kuroi, Commanding Japan- 
ese Home Fleet 265 

Japanese Cruiser "Kongo" 265 

Kiao-Chau 265 

Servian Soldiers, the Finished Product . 266 

The Stuff the Servian Army is Made of 266 

Servians in the Trenches 266 

French Armored Train 267 

French Cavalry Soldier 267 

French ArtLUery 267 

French Infantry on the March. . . . 267 

German Infantry on the March . . . 268 

German Uhlans on Parade 268 

German Infantry with Camp Kitchen . 268 

French Monoplane in Flight .... 269 

French Aeroplane Packed for Transport . 269 

Russian Mounted Troops 270 

Russian Troops, Resting 270 

Russian Troops, Marching 270 

A Russian Advance 271 

Russian Artillery in Action 271 

Why the Germans Went Through Bel- 
gium (Map) 272-3 

Servian ArtDlery 274 

Servians in Camp 274 



EUROPE AT WAR 



EUROPE AT WAR 



AN INTRODUCTORY SURVEY 

BY ALBERT SHAW 



NO LARGE bodies of men in any European 
country could have wished for war, 
any more than they could have wished 
to have their own cities or provinces swept by 
Asiatic cholera or devastated by earthquake, 
fire, or flood. They have been led into the war 
by the mismanagement of governments. 

It would not be just to say that the civil and 
military powers of the great countries of Europe 
have intentionally brought harm to their people. 
But they are not fitted for their responsibilities. 
Modern humanity demands appropriate public 
ideals in government policy and action. The real 
enemies of the European millions are not the 
peace-loving farmers and industrial workers of 
neighbor countries, but the false views and 
methods of their own governments and dominat- 
ing classes. It had been hoped by real statesmen, 
as well as by humanitarians, that such opportuni- 
ties for discussion as might be afforded by recur- 
ring peace conferences at The Hague would help 
to postpone the outbreak of a general war until 
means for fully averting it could be devised and 
agreed upon. But the situation for a number of 
years had been going steadily from bad to worse, 
until now the costly armaments that nations have 
built up with the supposed object of protecting 
them in their hour of need, have been brought into 
action for reasons that are indirect rather than 
obvious, and for causes and purposes that no two 
men can state exactly alike, because they are not 
definite. 

While this great war is without real provoca- 
tion or excuse, there are historical ex-planations 
of it that involve nearly everything that has 
happened in Europe for a hundred years. 

The immediate clash came in the Balkans, and 
was precipitated by Austria. A long train of evil 
consequences has followed upon the interference 
of the other European powers in the settlement of 
affairs between Russia and Turkey after the war 
of 1877, in which the Russians were victorious. 
The Congress of Berlin of 1878 was dominated 
by Prince Bismarck, representing the new Ger- 
man Empire; Disraeli (Lord Beaconsfield), rep- 
resenting Great Britain; and Count Andrassy, 
representing Austria. 



The arrangements that Russia and Turkey had 
agreed upon in March, by the treaty of San Ste- 
fano, were far wiser than those imposed in June by 
the other powers. It was Austria that had taken 
the initiative in the calling of the Berlin Congress. 
Russia and Turkey had agreed upon a large Bul- 
garia and upon an enlarged and independent 
Servia. Austria wished to have as much as pos- 
sible of this Christian territory of Southeastern 
Europe kept under the nominal authority of 
Turkey, for two manifest reasons. First, Austria 
feared Russia's influence with the new countries 
of Servia, Bulgaria, Montenegro, and Roumania. 
Second, Austria wished to have as much as pos- 
sible of all this territory remain Turkish, in order 
that she herself might wait for future opportuni- 
ties to obtain parts if not the whole of it for herself. 

One of the articles of the agreement adopted 
by the Berlin Congress of 187S turned Bosnia 
and Herzegovina over to Austria for purposes 
of temporary occupation and management. While 
it is to be conceded that Austria managed Bosnia 
very well, no one can deny that her position in 
Bosnia was that of a trustee and not that of an 
owner. The people of Bosnia are very closely 
related by blood, language, and sympathy to those 
of Servia. Bosnia, also, lies between Servia and 
the sea. It was natural that the Servians should 
look forward to a future union with Bosnia, 
and to an outlet on the Adriatic. But after Rus- 
sia's humiliation and defeat at the hands of the 
Japanese, which had lessened her prestige in 
Europe, and after the successes of the Young 
Turks in reforming the government of their 
country and the prospect that they might demand 
the evacuation of Bosnia by Austria, the govern- 
ment at Vienna decided that the time had come 
to announce annexation. 

Accordingly, in October, 1908, the powers that 
had engaged in the Berlin treaty were informed 
by the Austrian Emperor that Austria had de- 
cided, for her own reasons, to make Bosnia and 
Herzegovina a part of the Austro-Hungarian 
empire. The Servians were intensely embittered, 
because this stood in the way of their ambitions, 
for Servia was entirely landlocked. In the two 
recent Balkan wars, Bulgaria, Servia, Greece, and 



EUROPE AT WAR 



Montenegro joined forces to drive the Turks out 
of Europe. Austria and others of the larger 
powers tried to prevent action but the little states 
made their notable fight. They had agreed in 
advance upon the division of the territory they 
had determined to win. But after they had con- 
quered the territory, the great powers, again led 
by Austria, interfered to deprive the victors of 
the fruits of their success. The Turkish province 
of Albania, on the Adriatic, was to have furnished 
Servia with a large part of her share. This would 
have compensated her in great measure for having 
been deprived of her Bosnian hopes. At Austria's 
instigation, the foohsh scheme was devised of 
creating an independent Albania with a German 
prince to rule over it. 

PROVOKING THE LAST BALKAN WAR 

The bitterness of the Servians knew no bounds. 
Both Servia and Greece demanded of Bulgaria 
that, in view of changed circumstances, she should 
give them portions of what had been originally 
assigned to her. Bulgaria stood on technical 
rights, and found herself at war with her recent 
allies, greatly to her loss and disadvantage. This 
second httle war of last year, in which the small 
Powers, amply entitled to the world's sympathy, 
were pitted harmfully against each other, was due 
to Austria's policy, which to many of us seems 
malign and wrong, while to the most charitable 
mind it must seem at least to have been mistaken 
and unwise. Although Servia almost doubled her 
area by gains to the southward, she remained a 
landlocked country, with Bosnia, Montenegro, 
and Albania stretching between her and the 
Adriatic Sea. 

In June came a crisis in the situation between 
Austria and Servia. The world realized that great 
events were likely to follow the assassination in 
Bosnia, on June 28, 1914, of the Archduke Franz 
Ferdinand, heir to the imperial throne of Austria- 
Hungary, who had gradually become actual joint 
ruler with the aged Emperor Franz Joseph (who 
was nearly eighty-four years old at the time of 
the death of the Archduke). 

The Archduke was murdered by a young Ser- 
vian fanatic. Austria, for reasons of her own, 
determined to hold the government and people 
of Servia responsible for the murder, and on July 
23 an ultimatum was presented by the Vienna 
government to the government at Belgrade, with 



demand of immediate acceptance. The Servians 
acceded to most of the Austrian demands, but 
asked either further discussion or else arbitration 
on some points that could not be admitted with- 
out question. Austria made this Servian answer 
the pretext for an immediate declaration of war 
and a move upon Belgrade. There seems to be 
sufficient reason for stating the belief that Ger- 
many had been informed, both in general and in 
detail, of the Austrian demands, and had approved 
of them, although fully aware that this must mean 
a protest from Russia, which, if disregarded, would 
compel Russia to come to the aid of a small state 
with which her relations were close, and which 
she could not permit to be destroyed. 

CRIMES AGAINST THE BALKAN CHRISTIANS 

Thus it seems reasonable to hold that if there 
had been a decent respect for the commendable 
desire of the Christian peoples in European Tur- 
key to throw off the Turkish yoke and become 
self-governing states, there could have been no 
cause of the great war in so far as the Servian 
question precipitated it. If the great powers of 
Europe had been sincere and imselfish in their 
attitude toward the Balkan question, during 
the past two generations, there could have been 
developed a series of peaceful and progressive 
countries as harmless and non-military in their 
instincts as Switzerland, Holland, and Denmark. 

And the proper development of Servia, Bulgaria, 
and Greece would have been in every way advan- 
tageous to all the great powers of Europe and 
detrimental to the welfare of none. Out of this 
terrible war, therefore, let us earnestly hope there 
may come an adjustment of the affairs of South- 
eastern Europe that will be permanent and non- 
military. The imperial agglomeration of Austria- 
Hungary seems to serve no good purpose. A re- 
arrangement of provinces and regions, based 
largely upon race and language, might create 
in Southeastern Europe almost a dozen small 
countries of fixed territory, bound together in a 
league of peace and arbitration and of general 
friendship, but not forming a military factor for 
further aggressions. 

THE UNHEALED TROUBLE BETWEEN GERMANY 
AND FRANCE 

A wise treatment of the Balkan problem would 
have averted the war. But it would not have 



HISTORICAL DEVELOPMENT 



ended the overweening curse of militarism, nor 
removed the distrust and fear upon which mih- 
tarism feeds and which it naturally promotes. 
The beginning of the end of European militarism 
should have come about with a good under- 
standing between Germany and France. Such 
an understanding would have been arrived at 
many years ago, if Germany had been wise enough 
to reopen the Alsace-Lorraine question in the 
spirit of generosity and at the same time of simple 
common sense. Everybody who is wise has known 
this; but pride and arrogance too often blind 
nations, even as they blind individuals, so that 
they miss the plain path of wisdom and safety. 
Almost twenty years ago (in the issue for De- 
cember, 1894), the Review of Reviews published a 
remarkable article entitled: "On the Threshold 
of Universal Peace — An American Answer to the 
Question How to Reconcile France and Germany." 
It discussed this topic of the "lost provinces." 
The article was printed anonymously, but it may 
be stated that the author was a native of Germany 
though a naturalized American citizen. 

A peace congress had been held at Antwerp in 
August, 1894, just twenty years before the begin- 
ning of the war. There was much enthusiasm. 
Germany and Russia had negotiated the very im- 
portant commercial treaty which after twenty 
years of growing value to Germany, — the Rus- 
sians in 1914 refused to extend. At that moment 
the young German Emperor had shown marked 
courtesies toward France, and these had met with 
appreciation. There had just been favorable 
action by the United States Senate and the British 
authorities on a treaty of arbitration. 

This conference, meeting on the neutral soil of 
Belgium, was in a hopeful mood, rightly expressed 
by the mayor of Antwerp, who declared: "Peace 
is in the hearts of all men in civilized countries." 
A number of proposals were made at the con- 
ference, having to do with reduction of term of 
military service, limitation of armaments, cur- 
tailment of war expenditure, and so on. The 
writer of the article in question, however, demon- 
strated brilliantly and convincingly that universal 
peace could at that time be assured only in one 
way, — namely, by an offer on the part of the 
German Emperor to rearrange the boundary line 
in Alsace-Lorraine in such a manner that the 
French-speaking communities should be ceded 
back to France. 



He declared, and with good reason, that such 
a proposal, if properly set before the German 
people, would have been accepted by them with 
enthusiasm. The details of the adjustment would 
naturally have been made by a joint commission. 
Both sides could have afforded to be wholly gener- 
ous in such details, because the large point to be 
gained, — that of permanent good-will between 
two great nations, — was of incomparable impor- 
tance, while the mere details of the boundary line 
were in themselves of little significance. 

Assuredly, a settlement of this question 
would have made it possible and reasonable to 
dismantle every fortification along the frontier 
between France and Germany, and to enter upon 
a permanent arbitration treaty, such as England 
and the United States were at that time negotiat- 
ing. At the time of this Antwerp peace confer- 
ence, Germany had held the conquered strip 
of territory about twenty-three years. Twenty 
years more have elapsed since then. If anything, 
the French sentiment has grown stronger rather 
than weaker in the French part of Alsace-Lorraine, 
and the whole French nation has unitedly, and 
without wavering, clung to the purpose at some 
time to rectify that frontier. 

It is said that Bismarck never desired to annex 
more than the parts that were German-speaking. 
But the German generals desired Metz for what 
they called strategic purposes. Unfortunately, 
professional soldiers never seem to understand 
that in the permanent sense friendship is the only 
strategical system that can be supported. The 
settlement of this vexed question some years ago 
would have redounded to the fame, glory, security, 
and prosperity of modern Germany. It would 
have made friends of Germany and France, would 
have promoted all the finer things of industry, 
commerce, art, science, and culture, and would 
have made military alliances unnecessary. 

France could have disarmed in large measure; 
and the sentiment of western and middle Europe 
could have laid down the law to Russia and Aus- 
tria in regard to the right settlement of the pro- 
blems of southeastern Europe. It is needless to 
expatiate at great length upon what might have 
been. Yet it must be said that there have been 
many occasions, since the favorable moment of 
1894, when Germany might have taken up this 
question with France in an open-minded way, 
and so adjusted it as to save the peace of Europe 



EUROPE AT WAR 



for generations to come. In neglecting it, Ger- 
many has chiefly wronged herself. 

WHAT GERMANY HAS HAD TO ENDURE 

The cost of maintaining the feud over Alsace- 
Lorraine has been almost unbearable for both 
countries. It has been greatly to the credit of 
Germany that, with all this economic and moral 
burden of militarism, she has made such notable 
progress in the arts of peace during the period 
since the formation of the present empire, after 
the victory over France. In spite of a large migra- 
tion of German people to the United States and 
other countries, the home population has steadily 
increased, until it is now 65,000,000, whereas it 
was about 40,000,000 at the time of the Franco- 
Prussian War. France at that time had about the 
same population, and it has remained virtually at 
a standstill. The condition of the plain German 
people has much improved. They are better 
educated and have better opportunities to make 
a living. From having little manufacturing, Ger- 
many has developed vast industries, based largely 
upon superior scientific and technical training. 
The cities and towns are beautiful and well gov- 
erned. Through public savings-banks, and careful 
systems for giving aid to the sick and the poor, and 
for pensioning the injured and the aged, Germany 
has led the world in deaHng with the problem of 
caring for all the people in our new industrial age. 
Science and philosophy, literature and art, have 
flourished in Germany, even as industry and com- 
merce have made giant strides. All honor to 
German brains and effort. 

It is possible, however to draw a clear distinc- 
tion between imperial and military Germany, on 
the one hand, and the Germany of science and in- 
dustry on the other. America has much in com- 
mon with the great German nation, but has little 
in common with the military caste and the im- 
perial attitude. The German peasant is doubt- 
less in many ways improved by the training of 
his compulsory two years of service (beginning at 
the age of twenty). But he goes back to spend 
his life as a peaceable citizen and worker, though 
he remains for years afterward a member of the 
reserves. 

THE MILITARY CASTE 

It is not this universal training to defend the 
country that creates German militarism. It is 
the enormous body of officers, with whom the 



army is a life profession, and whose ideals and 
attitude toward the nation are not those that are 
in keeping with the intelligent aims of human so- 
ciety in the twentieth century. These officers 
constitute a military caste that is associated with 
the surviving institutions of autocracy and 
feudalism that have come down from bygone 
centuries. The profession of a trained soldier 
is not dishonorable; and if men are to be led there 
must be those prepared to command. But it is a 
calamity when civil society is so overridden by the 
insolence of a military guild as that of Germany 
has been for a long time past. If Germany and 
France could have settled their differences, and 
become firm friends, both countries could have 
proceeded rapidly to throw off the incubus of this 
offensive and evil militarism. 

DID GERMANY INTEND THIS WAR? 

It may be a long time before we shall know, as a 
matter of historical certainty, whether or not Ger- 
many brought on the war at this time with definite 
purpose and intention. We once supposed that 
Louis Napoleon, rather than Bismarck, brought 
on the war of 1870. It seems incredible that the 
German Emperor and those in his councils had 
deliberately sought war rather than peace. But 
the minds of men often become obsessed through 
the constant dwelling upon a subject of fear or 
dread, with the element of suspense involved. 

The strain between Germany and Russia had 
been growing greater for a good while. The Ger- 
man authorities had felt that a war with Russia 
was inevitable at some time. The assassination 
of a great Teutonic monarch (for the Austrian 
Archduke was virtually a sharer of the throne) 
seemed to create an occasion that gave Germany 
the opportunity to fight, without having herself 
directly precipitated the conflict. Austria's at- 
tack upon Servia was sure to involve Russia. 
Germany was bound by her alliance to come to 
Austria's aid. This, the Germans thought, would 
of necessity bring Italy into the combat as the 
third member of the Triple Alliance. For Ger- 
many seemed to suppose that the world would 
regard her action as defensive, in view of Russia's 
alleged movements of aggression. 

Italy's unforeseen halt 

Italy, however, refused to take this view, and 
declined to aid Austria in an aggressive Balkan 



HISTORICAL DEVELOPMENT 



campaign, regarding herself as justified in re- 
maining neutral under the terms of the alliance. 
The truth, of course, is that Italy had never been 
very happy in this association, and had gone into 
it through a supposed necessity that, if it ever 
really existed has now for some time been outlived. 
Italy, as a purely Mediterranean power, has no 
sympathy with Austria's ambition, and has every 
need of being on good terms with England and 
France, which are the great naval powers of the 
Mediterranean, and which could readily destroy 
Italy in the maritime sense. Thus Germany mis- 
calculated as respects Italian cooperation. 

It is well known that Germany made overtures 
to England, and did not suppose that the British 
Government would be drawn into the conflict. 
But for a number of years the interests of Great 
Britain and France have been harmonious, and 
the good understanding had developed into some- 
thing like a Hmited alliance. England might, in- 
deed, have kept out of the war on certain condi- 
tions. One of these conditions was the promise 
not to attack the coasts of France that lie near 
England. Germany was prepared to respect this 
demand. Without consulting England, however, 
Germany proceeded with a plan to invade France 
by way of Belgium. As long ago as 1S31 the sta- 
tus of Belgium was fixed in an international con- 
ference which resulted in the guaranteeing of that 
country's independence and neutrality. 

Germany's violation of Belgium's position was 
not only wicked and ruthless, but it was an act of 
blind folly. The German Government seems to 
have supposed that a Liberal government in 
England, with the Ulster question on its hands, 
could not be provoked to join in a European war. 
But there are qualities in British character with 
which it is dangerous to trifle. Under the lead of 
the Premier, Mr. Asquith, and the Foreign Secre- 
tary, Sir Edward Grey, England notified Ger- 
many that she must cease to violate Belgian 
neutrality. Germany would not yield, and Eng- 
land declared war. 

Belgium's position and rights 

Germany had nothing to gain by choosing the 
Belgian route that could have compensated her for 
the attack of the great British navy upon her 
maritime resources. Nor was there anything 
in the German excuse that France would have 
marched across Belgium if Germany had ab- 



stained. The wickedness of Germany's action 
lay in the fact that her movement into Belgium, 
even if acquiesced in by the Belgian Government, 
would have necessitated a corresponding move- 
ment from the French side, thus making Belgium 
the theatre of war between two great powers. 
Nor was Germany well advised in supposing 
the Belgians could not or would not resist. The 
heroic resistance of the Belgians, even though un- 
equal and only temporarily successful, added one 
more to the list of Germany's enemies and gained 
time for the allies. Germany's plan had been to 
move very swiftly and strike at Paris before Rus- 
sia's slow-moving forces could be brought into 
action on Germany's eastern frontier. 

AMERICA AND THE GERMANS 

The Franco-Prussian War occurred only five 
years after the colossal struggle between our 
American sections had come to an end. Within 
a few years preceding our war we had received 
an enormous influx of new population from Ger- 
many. Many of these immigrants had received 
military training before they came. Immigration 
at that time did not enter the South, and these 
newcomers were all in the North, St. Louis being 
the farthest point southward to which they had 
gone in considerable numbers. Many Germans 
entered the United States armies and fought 
valiantly. The head of the French Government 
in that period was the Emperor Louis Napoleon, 
who was not well disposed toward the United 
States, who had been ready to join other powers 
in thwarting us, and whose conduct in Mexico 
was regarded as adverse to our interests. 

When, therefore, the war came on between 
France and Prussia, opinion upon the whole re- 
garded Napoleon as the aggressor, and sym- 
pathized with the Germans. Our Government 
was correct in its neutrality, but popular sym- 
pathy was unmistakable in its trend. We have 
since that time received many more people from 
Germany. Our total population at the time of 
the Franco-Prussian War was less than 40,000,000. 
It is now 100,000,000. Considerably more than 
a third of our population is made up of people 
themselves born in Europe or of European-born 
parentage. And fully twenty-five per cent, of 
all these people are of German origin. Next come 
the Irish, who are only about half as many as the 
Germans. We are using the classification of the 



8, 



EUROPE AT WAR 



United States census, which goes back no farther 
than the parents in its reckoning of foreign stocks 
and elements. 

These people from Germany are now our Ameri- 
can fellow-citizens. Hundreds of thousands of 
them, if not milhons, have friends or relatives in 
the old country directly affected by the present 
terrible war. They are loyal to the United States, 
but their feelings are deeply affected. Very many 
of them beheve that the German Emperor and 
those in authority have made a great mistake. 

It is not for us Americans to argue with any of 
our fellow-citizens of foreign origin whose senti- 
ments are profoundly agitated. On theother hand, 
it is incumbent upon them, as adopted American 
citizens, to put restraint upon their words and 
acts, and to respect American neutrality. Ger- 
many is so great and noble a country that its 
future eminence in the civilized world is assured 
in any case. 

AMERICAN DOCTRINES NOT OUTWORN 

It is time, however, for all Americans to have a 
new baptism of faith in the old American creed of 
liberty and popular self-government. Until re- 
cently it was not the fashion in this country to 
approve of the institutions of royalty or of priv- 
ileged aristocracy. But along with the growth 
of great fortunes in America there has been evolved 
a kind of snobbery that has sadJy infected some 
American men and a great number of American 
women. There has been a shameless and dis- 
graceful readiness to transfer American women 
plus money to the support of titles and hereditary 
privilege in Europe. The greatest and best things 
of England, France, Germany, Austria, and Italy 
have been won in spite of the heavy handicap 
of aristocracy and privilege in association with the 
military caste. The evils of aristocratic systems 
must not be ignored merely because many in- 
dividual members of the aristocracy are virtuous, 
cultured, and worthy members of society. Even 
the German Emperor, despite his medieval fana- 
ticism and assertion of divine authority, is a most 
interesting and attractive figure in his great 
versatility; and he stands out unquestionably, 
in American opinion, as the most popular of 
all hereditary rulers. But the systems that 
he represents do not make for the welfare of 
modem peoples, nor for their security and 
peace. 



WESTERN LIBERALISM 

The French are safer as a republic than they 
were as an empire, and they would be still safer 
if neighboring peoples were also self-governing. 
If there are "two Germanys," there are also two 
Englands, and the struggle between them has been 
almost continuous for many centuries. It had 
begun long before Cromwell's time, and it has had 
intense manifestations in our own day. The 
fight that has taken away from the House of Lords 
a great part of its power has been a chapter in this 
long conflict. The attempt to make taxation just, 
as against the landed proprietors, is another chap- 
ter. The Irish struggle for Home Rule grew funda- 
mentally out of the evils of landlordism and aris- 
tocracy, and the recent defiance of Ulster, how- 
ever locally sincere, found its real strength in the 
age-long war of the British classes against the 
masses. 

The liberalizing of British institutions has, how- 
ever, gone very far; and the people have ample 
leverage to carry it farther if they so ordain. 
Germany's lack of political equality and freedom 
has not much interfered with social progress and 
efficiency in many directions; but the time has 
come for political freedom in Germany, and this 
war will advance that great cause. There are in- 
dications, also, that out of the necessities of the 
situation there may come about in Russia a series 
of reforms which the whole civilized world would 
rejoice to see. Out of one period of struggle came 
the emancipation of the Russian serfs. Out of 
another came the Duma and the beginning of 
parliamentary government. Now has come the 
announcement that Russia means to give Poland 
a large measure of freedom, and this must be fol- 
lowed by the restoration to Finland of the liberties 
recently crushed out. It is hoped also that there 
will follow a complete reform, on Russia's part, in 
the treatment of her great body of Jewish people; 
and beyond that there must be a new kind of free- 
dom of speech, of the press, of assembly, of coming 
and going, of domicile, and of personality. 

The Government and the people of the United 
States desire to maintain cordial and good rela- 
tions with all the countries unfortunately involved 
in the great war. President Wilson's statements 
and proclamations have been admirable in spirit 
and in phrase. Our Government was prompt in 
offering its services in the cause of mediation and 



HISTORICAL DEVELOPMENT 



peace. Our diplomatic service has been extended 
in the capitals of belligerents to the guardianship 
of the interests of nations whose own representa- 
tives have been obliged to wthdraw. Americans 
visit Europe in such vast numbers every year 
that it is not strange that the sudden outbreak 
of almost universal war should have caused much 
embarrassment and some hardship. In view of 
the magnitude of the crisis, these American tourists 
have fared well at the hands of all governments 
and peoples. 

WILL THE WAS BE LONG OR SHORT 

It is probably true that the German leaders 
expected to find American sympathy definitely on 
their side. But America wishes peace and har- 
mony, and most Americans believe that the 
checkmating of Germany would be the quickest 
and most efficacious way to bring about a lasting 
peace. Americans feel that England's mainte- 
nance of Belgian neutrahty was necessary and 
right. Small powers and homogeneous race 
elements must be strengthened. German diplo- 
macy seems to have been greatly at fault, while 
that of England seems to have been more just 
and praiseworthy. Everyone is asking whether 
the war will be short or long. It is to be devoutly 
hoped that it will be brief; but it has borne little 
likeness to an old-fashioned war of concentrated 
pitched battles, and its duration might be long. 

The superiority on the sea of England and the 
allies will at once have paralyzed German com- 
merce. Germany's colonial empire will be at the 
mercy of her enemies. Belgium's resistance has 
shown how even a small power can fight on the 
defensive. It would seem hardly possible now 
for the armies of one great European power 
easily to reach the capital of another. The more 
quickly mediation and an armistice can be brought 
into effect, the better it will be for the peoples 
of all countries and for the cause of future peace. 
The Franco-Prussian War lasted about sLx months. 
The Russo-Japanese War of 1904-05 continued 
for about sixteen months. But nothing like the 
present struggle has ever occurred, and predic- 
tions are useless. 

japan's aggressive steps 

Japan's ultimatum to Germany would have 
seemed to make for a shortening of the war, 
through a multiplication of the obstacles that 



might lead the Germans to seek an armistice and 
a settlement before their resources were too much 
exhausted in a contest v(jith the odds greatly 
against them. Germany seems to have relied 
on superior preparation, the rapid prostration of 
France, the slow movement of Russia, the full 
assistance of Italy, the neutrality of England, a 
holiday victory of Austria over the little Servian 
nation, strong American sympathy, and the total 
unwillingness of Japan to be lined up on the same 
side with Russia. But it seems that Japan had 
not only her treaty with England, but had also 
entered into a more extensive agreement with 
France and a more definite understanding with 
Russia than was commonly supposed. 

Furthermore, Germany's occupation of the 
Chinese port of Kiao-Chau and a portion of the 
province of Shantung, opposite Port Arthur, had 
always been offensive to Japan. Germany had 
engineered the combination of powers which or- 
dered Japan out of Port Arthur after her victory 
over the Chinese in 1895 (ten years before her 
war with Russia). Subsequently, on the pretext 
of compensation for the murder of two mis- 
sionaries, Germany had compelled China to give 
her Kiao-Chau on a long lease. 

On August 16, Japan issued an ultimatum, de- 
manding withdrawal from Kiao-Chau and giving 
a week for reply. Japan was admittedly acting 
after full consultation with the British Govern- 
ment. She had assured the American Govern- 
ment that her plans and intentions were in no way 
detrimental to the interests of the United States. 
Japan declared the purpose of seeing that Kiao- 
Chau was eventually returned to China. 

AMERICAN interests IN THE PACIFIC 

The authorities at Washington were reticent, 
but showed no displeasure. One Congressman 
flared up about Japan, on the floor of the House 
but he was sidetracked; and nobody else made 
public criticism. The diplomatic arrangement 
by which the United States divided up the Sa- 
moan group in the Pacific with Germany, if not 
particularly brilliant, has at least worked peacea- 
bly for a good many years. If Germany is not to 
remain in the Pacific, her Samoan interests ought 
to be ceded to the United States. 

But Japan gave definite assurances that she 
would not go farther than to expel Germany from 
the mainland of China and to protect her own 



lO 



EUROPE AT WAR 



trade and commerce from attack by German 
cruisers. Since Germany has practically no naval 
strength in the Pacific, while Japan, England, and 
Russia have together a vast naval power, it was at 
once evident that Germany could not hold Kiau- 
chau. A question, however, arose as to China's 
action, for it seemed likely enough that if the 
German lease were to be terminated, China 
would resume possession and not accept the pro- 
gramme of Japan. Some newspaper writers have 
expressed fear lest the United States should be- 
come involved in difficulties in the Far East be- 
cause of its sovereignty over the PhiHppines. 
Although we are in control of those islands, we are 
giving them self-government quite as rapidly as 
it is possible for them to exercise it. 

When the time comes for intelUgent and re- 
sponsible action on their part, the PhOippines will 
be free to become an independent republic; and 
every wise man knows that such a position could 
never have been attained by them without our 
tutelage and assistance. If anybody supposes 
that the people of the United States would involve 
themselves in a great war for the sake of keeping 
the American flag flying in the Philippine Islands, 
they are not good judges of sentiment. 

The people of this country have moral courage 
enough not to resort to war when such action 
would be of no service either to themselves or to 
the world. Japan has no intention whatever 
of interfering with our useful exercise of respon- 
sibility for the order and progress of the Philip- 
pines. We need not be embroiled in war, and we 
must pursue courses that will not only insure our 
own immunity but will also help to dehver the 
world from the hideous obsession of militarism. 

As for Japanese action and policy, let us hope 
that there will be wisdom and moderation. If, 
as the Japanese and others believe, Germany 
was prone to grasp advantages ruthlessly wherever 
she could get them in the development of her 
ambitious projects of empire, it would be most 
unfortunate if Japan should fall into the same er- 
ror and give the world the impression of an undue 
readiness to seize what can be had in a time of 
some other power's misfortune. 

Canada's position 

The sympathy and loyalty of the great self- 
governing British dominions are completely with 
the mother country. The Canadian Parliament 



assembled on August i8, and the Prime Minister, 
Mr. Borden, was eloquently seconded by the oppo- 
sition leader. Sir WOfrid Laurier, in the entire pro- 
gramme of support. Canada not only had money 
to offer and ships for transport, but prepared 
to send about 20,000 soldiers. There are ques- 
tions touching Canada's participation in European 
wars that bear profoundly upon the policy of the 
United States. It would not accord with Ameri- 
can views to have the theatre of war shifted to 
this continent, or to have Canada's security in 
any way molested. But at the present moment 
these are academic rather than practical questions, 
because the sea power of the British Empire, to- 
gether with that of her alUes, renders it wholly 
improbable that Germany could attack either of 
Canada's ocean seaboards. 

We have cause to rejoice that there are no forti- 
fications along the thousands of miles of frontier 
between the United States and Canada. Nor 
does European war render us less thankful for 
the hundred years of peace that have followed the 
signing of the Treaty of Ghent in 1814. An ad- 
mirable and timely pamphlet by Dr. Charles H. 
Levermore tells the story of "The Anglo-Amer- 
ican Agreement of 1817 for Disarmament on the 
Great Lakes." The pamphlet is issued by the 
World Peace Foundation, of Boston, and it brings 
the subject up to date. We have happily avoided 
a war with Mexico, and have no fortifications 
along our southern boundary line. 

CAN WE GAIN BY EUROPE'S CALAMITY? 

While nothing has been said in the United 
States that would indicate a desire to obtain 
any territorial or "imperial" advantages for this 
country, very much has been said about the oppor- 
tunity to gain economic prosperity. Broadly 
speaking, other people's impoverishment can- 
not contribute to our wealth. Prosperity can 
be diffused, while, on the other hand, great 
disaster and loss cannot be localized. The 
paralysis of industry and commerce in Europe 
wiU cause much poverty and suffering in the 
United States. Neither American capital nor 
American labor will be benefited by the annihila- 
tion of European capital and the diversion of labor 
to the destructive business of war. 

We will have to bear it as well as we can, pray- 
ing that the war may be short and less devastating 
than has seemed probable. The newspaper talk 



HISTORICAL DEVELOPMENT 



II 



about the opportunity of wealth through the crea- 
tion of a vast American merchant marine has been 
palpably erroneous. American capital has been 
occupied in enterprises more profitable than the 
carrying of ocean freight. If, in order to get our 
surplus commodities to Europe, and to bring back 
things needful, such as coffee, hides, sugar, and 
so on, from South America and elsewhere, we are 
obliged to take our capital out of other enterprises 
and put it into ocean freighting, it will mean ac- 
tual loss rather than gain, because we cannot 
afford to do that business as cheaply as Europe 
has been doing it for us. 

AS TO OUR MERCHANT MARINE 

The temporary paralysis of ocean trade, due 
to a state of war between England and Germany, 
is very embarrassing, and necessitates emergency 
action of some kind. That Congress should re- 
vise our navigation laws, and make it easier for 
American-owned ships to fly the American flag, 
was obviously necessary. It was in mitigation 
of disaster, rather than in seizure of opportunity. 
Secretary Lane was justified in calling attention 
to certain mineral resources, particularly potashes 
and phosphates needed for fertilizers, that might 
be opened up through action of Congress, in view 
of the cutting off of foreign supplies. In incidental 
and special ways, America may develop new 
sources of prosperity; and she may in many ways 
be able to help Europe tide over the period of 
financial and business trouble. But we must pre- 
pare soberly for our own less heavy burden of 
loss, rather than indulge in hopes of gain that 
are not only fallacious but also unbecoming. 
We can even operate government ships but only 
to meet emergencies. 



CONGRESS BECOMES RECONCILED 

Trouble, after all, is a relative thing; and the 
law-makers at Washington were not so disturbed 
as they had been over the prospect of Httle or no 
recess. Comparing their own favorable situation 
at Washington with the stress and an.xiety to 
which governments and parliaments were sub- 
jected in every European capital, they became 
patriotic, grateful, and amenable. Partisanship 
ceased to be obtrusive, and there was intel- 
ligent and prompt cooperation. Changes in the 
Aldrich-Vreeland law were made which gave the 
Secretary of the Treasury authority to support 
the banks to an almost unlimited extent, after 
the European crisis and panic at the end of July. 
Measures were taken by virtue of which the 
United States was ready to meet any possible 
emergency in the financial world. Congress 
also acted in a statesmanlike spirit with respect 
to the relief of American foreign trade. 

Despite the discomforts of a Washington sum- 
mer, there was no adjournment because of the 
danger of unforeseen contingencies. 

PRESIDENT WILSON IN CRITICAL TIMES 

President Wilson's unflinching devotion to pub- 
licduty,and his wise attitude in the midstof strange 
and perilous times, did not faD to win admiration 
and respect. Upon August 6 a great personal 
bereavement befell him in the death of Mrs. 
Wilson. The President was sustained in his 
affliction by the compelling force of his public 
duties at a moment of unprecedented seriousness 
in the history of modern nations. Like most of 
his predecessors, Mr. Wilson has not failed to rise 
high when great emergencies have afforded a test 
of character, wisdom, and moral power. 



BACKGROUNDS AND MAINSPRINGS 
OF THE STRUGGLE 



BY LOUIS E. VAN NORMAN 



FOR the causes of the titanic struggle 
moving Europe, it is necessary to go back 
a little into history. 
Europe's political development, during the 
past four or five centuries, has been largely con- 
ditioned by what international law writers term 
the "continental conception." The Holy Roman 
Empire, with its claim for the dominance of the 
Emperor and the subordination of the other states, 
was followed by the independent sovereignty doc- 
trine. This maintained that every nation was 
not only free and sovereign, but that it was equal 
to every other nation in the councils of the con- 
tinent. This conception was succeeded, in the 
middle of the past century, by the idea of the 
"concert of Europe." It came to be believed 
that an agreement of the Great Powers, — which, 
since 1870, have been Great Britain, France, 
Russia, Germany, Austria, and Italy, — should de- 
termine the policies of the continent and keep the 
peace. Every dispute between nations, little or 
big, was considered as a continental matter by this 
"concert," or general council, which unitedly im- 
posed its will. 

THE BALANCE OF POWER DOCTRINE 

At the same time there was growing up the 
condition and doctrine known as the "balance of 
power." After the Congress of Vienna in 1815, 
which liquidated the Napoleonic conquests and 
settled the large lines of the map of Europe for 
more than half a century, the European nations 
assumed the point of view that any acquisition of 
power, territory, or population by any one of 
them entitled all the others to compensation, so 
that the relative strength and importance might 
not be disturbed. Hence we find, after every im- 
portant war since Napoleon's time, the prac- 
tise of the European "concert" to take part in 
the settlement of the terms of peace and so 
adjust the gains of the victor and the losses of 
the vanquished that the much-discussed "bal- 



ance" might not be upset. Any threatened dis- 
turbance of this balance has always had in it the 
seeds of a general conflict. 

The balance-of-power fetish has been one of 
the four great moving causes of the present war. 
The other three may be briefly set forth as mili- 
tarism, with its attendant jealousy and the ob- 
stacles it presents to many needed social and 
economic reforms; the age-long world rivalry 
between Teuton and Slav; and the struggle of 
Europe's swarming industrial and commercial 
nations for the markets of Asia. 

The preponderance acquired by Prussia through 
her victory over France in 1870-71 and its in- 
crease by the alliance of the German Empire with 
Austria and Italy has resulted in those European 
alliances which have made the aUgnment in the 
present conflict. 

HOW THE ALLIANCES CAME TO BE 

Bismarck's fear of France and his hatred of 
the Napoleonic tradition as exemplified in Louis 
Napoleon was the underlying cause. In order 
to maintain a strong front against the Republic, 
he brought about the Dual Alliance between Ger- 
many and Austria in 1879. This agreement, 
which was not known to the world until nine 
years later, marks the beginning of the division 
of Europe into two hostile camps. In 1882 the 
Iron Chancellor was able to convince the Italians 
that they should cast in their lot with the powers 
of the centre of the continent, and the Triple 
Alliance, or Dreibund, was born. In pursuance 
of his ideal of a friendless France, Bismarck, be- 
fore approaching Italy, had attempted, unsuccess- 
fully, to get Russian adhesion to a Dreikaiserhund 
(League of the Three Emperors). England could 
not be tempted by either side. 

In 1890 Bismarck fell from power, and France 
came to an understanding with Russia. The 
next year the Treaty of Alliance was signed, 
which, however, was not made public imtil 1894. 



12 



BACKGROUNDS AND MAINSPRINGS 



13 



For a decade the Dual Alliance of France and 
Russia faced the Triple Alliance of Germany, 
Austria, and Italy, with the odds in favor of the 
Dreibund. 

During the first years of the twentieth century, 
however, there came about a shifting of the 
balance. Italy, estranged from France over the 
occupation of Tunis in 18S1, and because of a 
vexatious tariff war, became reconciled to her 
Latin sister in 1901. In May, 1903, King Ed- 
ward VII paid his memorable visit to Paris. 
Thanks to the diplomatic exchanges begun by 
this monarch, Britain and France, in April, 1904, 
signed an omnibus treaty settling all their differ- 
ences in Africa. Shortly afterward a secret 
understanding was arrived at between the two 
countries which, despite ofiicial denials, is now 
understood to have provided for British aid to 
France in case of an attack by Germany. This 
was the famous Entente Cordiale, or Cordial 
Understanding. In 1907 Great Britain and 
Russia, long at odds over their respective spheres 
of influence in Persia and other parts of the 
Near East, made up their difierences in a 
treaty. 

DEVELOPMENT OF THE TRIPLE ENTENTE 

Meanwhile, the French had begun their pacific 
penetration of Morocco, and the German Kaiser 
had made his spectacular visit to Tangier (1905) 
and demanded that Germany's rights in North 
Africa be safeguarded. The Moroccan question 
was supposed to have been settled by the famous 
conference of Algeciras (1906). This conference, 
which brought out the support of England to 
France, proved that the Entente Cordiale, which 
had grown out of the treaty of 1904, approximated 
the strength of an alliance. When, as has already 
been said, Russia and England agreed over their 
Near Eastern interests, the Dual Alliance had 
expanded into the Triple Entente. 

Startling events soon drew the world's atten- 
tion to eastern Europe. The Turkish revolution, 
in 1908, found echoes in several of the provinces 
formerly under Ottoman suzerainty. In Feb- 
ruary, 1908, Europe was startled by the news that 
Bulgaria had thrown off the over-lordship of 
Turkey, and that Austria-Hungary had formally 
annexed Bosnia and Herzegovina. These pro- 
vinces had been given to her "for military occu- 
pation and administration" by the Congress of 



Berlin, which followed the Turco-Russian war of 
1877. All Europe was expecting a continental 
war. The tension was ended in March, 1909, 
however, by a peremptory intimation from the 
German Kaiser to the Russian Czar that if his 
support of Servia's protest against Austria's ab- 
sorption of the Bosniaks should lead to war with 
the Dual Monarchy, Germany would "appear in 
shining armor at the side of her ally." 

Russia never forgot this check. The two 
Balkan wars which amazed and frightened the 
continent in 1912 and 1913 were regarded by Aus- 
tria and Germany as having been instigated by 
Russia in revenge. The Czar, however, has appar- 
parently seen these in the light of additional 
Slavonic checks by the Teuton. Meanwhile, 
Germany again challenged France in Morocco 
by her dramatic stroke at Agadir (191 1). Bri- 
tain supported France vigorously, and it was seen 
that the Triple Entente had solidified into what 
was virtually an alliance. 

THE POLITICAL CHESS BOARD OF EUROPE 

The continent is now divided into four groups 
of nations: (i) The close alliance of the middle 
European powers, — Germany, Austria, and 
Italy, — into the Triple Alliance, or Driebund; 
(2) the Triple Entente, or understanding ap- 
proaching an alliance, between Great Britain, 
France, and Russia (France and Russia being 
formally allied); (3) the small group of buffer 
nations whose neutrality and integrity have been 
recognized or guaranteed, — Denmark, Holland, 
Belgium, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, front- 
ing on France, Belgium, and Germany, whose 
neutrality was guaranteed in 1867, and Switzer- 
land; (4) the other countries, more or less iso- 
lated, some of them, however, having regional 
problems of their own. These include the Balkan 
nations, — Bulgaria, Servia, Montenegro, Greece, 
Turkey, and Roumania, — formerly a sort of Bal- 
kan extension of the Triple Alliance, but within the 
past year drawn within the orbit of Russia; the 
Scandinavian nations, — Norway, Sweden and 
Denmark (the latter, although neutral, still in- 
volved in the general fate of Scandinavia), — and 
the Iberian nations, Spain and Portugal. Any 
increase of the power of any one of these groups 
would alone have been sufficient to bring about 
a European war. This alignment constituted the 
balance of power. 



14 



EUROPE AT WAR 



SOME OF THE PROBLEMS OF THE DREIBUND 

Each of the two great alliances now locked 
in the giant struggle for mastery presents some 
coherence and consistency and yet a good deal 
of diversity and internal antagonism. The two 
bureaucratic, highly centralized, powerful military 
nations of the centre of the continent, Germany 
and Austria, are dominated by German-speaking 



tria has the problem of Slavs on the south as well 
as to the east and within her own borders. 

Meanwhile a suspicious, unfriendly Italian 
neighbor and assumed ally, hungering to re- 
claim Italia Irredenta, begrudges her an outlet 
on the Adriatic. The Austro-Italian question 
arises from the fact that Austria still possesses 
the only lands on the European continent in- 
habited by Italian-speaking people not under the 




J&^BB^*^^ £ 



\m 



2«tPLE ENTENTE ^^^H BALKANS 

THE EUROPEAN ALLIANCES AND GROUPS AT THE BEGINNING OF THE WAR 



men. Their interests are largely similar. Even 
the problems of each arise chiefly out of the fact 
that their governments are more dynastic than 
national. The Hohenzollerns and Hapsburgs are 
faced by racial questions of a similar nature, 
although Austria has them more intensely and to 
a greater degree than Germany. Both find the 
Slav within their borders and on their boundaries 
their chief enemy. Germany has, in addition, 
British commercial and naval rivalry to the north 
and French desire for revenge on the west. Aus- 



Italian flag. All ancient Italy, from the Alps to 
the end of the toe of the boot, has been brought 
under one sceptre, except south Tyrol, Trieste, 
and the rest of that shore line of the northern 
Adriatic which Italians call Italia Irredenta — 
Italy unredeemed. To the loss of Corsica to 
France and Malta to Great Britain the Italian 
seems reconciled. The government at Rome, 
however, and the Italian people cannot forget 
that Austria holds all of continental Italy which 
is not subject to King Victor Emmanuel, and, 



BACKGROUNDS AND MAINSPRINGS 



IS 



moreover, that she has kept up a constant and 
vexatious campaign of Austrianization against 
those portions of Venetia and Lombardy which 
the Italians regard as their own. 

While Germany's and Austria's problems are 
acute largely within their own borders (Ger- 
many's colonies have never been regarded as 
profitable), Italy's concern for her international 
position has been intensified by the acquisition of 
Tripoli. Italians have been very thoughtfully 
weighing the advantages accruing to them from 
their alliance with Germany and Austria, such as 
military assistance, financial promotion, etc., 
against their traditional friendship with England, 
their historic love for France, and the ease with 
which British and French battleships, if un- 
friendly, might cut off Tripoli and close in the 
peninsula upon the political, economic, and social 
revolution which King Victor Emmanuel is re- 
ported to have recently said is likely to make 
Italy the ne.xt repubhc. All of which goes toward 
explaining why Italy tries her best to remain 
neutral. 

DIVERGENCE IN THE ENTENTE 

There is more diversity than agreement in 
the Triple Entente. Hostility to the Dreibund 
and fear of its tremendous military power have 
been the main actuating motives. Government, 
institutions, and traditions tend to unite the cen- 
tral European powers. But it is exactly govern- 
ment, institutions, and tradition that put the 
members of the Triple Entente as far apart as the 
poles. Constitutional, republican England (a 
monarchy only in name), with her widely extended 
empire and her unmilitary people, is practically 
allied to republican, highly centralized France, 
which has not yet lost her memory of the great 
Napoleon. France also has a colonial empire, 
and a navy which is claimed to be second only 
to that of England. Britain befriends France 
both because she sympathizes with western 
liberalism and because she has long feared and 
suspected the German. Moreover, the German 
has been crowding her in the race for the world's 
trade and has built a powerful navy to protect 
what German merchants have won. It is the 
German contention that one of the chief causes of 
the war is jealousy of the commercial success 
which the subjects of the Kaiser have achieved. 

This friendship with the republic across the 



chaimel and a desire to protect her Asiatic depen- 
dencies bring Britain into a strange semi- 
partnership with the autocratic Russian Empire, 
with which she has naturally nothing in common, 
with which she is at enmity along many frontiers 
of the world, and with which she wiU inevitably 
have to dispute the prizes of the war, should the 
Triple Entente be victorious. But France wants 
back Alsace-Lorraine from Germany, and French 
bankers hold almost all the huge Russian national 
debt. To protect her investments in Russia, 
and to consummate her revenge on Germany 
for the humiliation of 1870, France cannot break 
with the Muscovite. Britain needs France for 
her own protection against Germany. A Ger- 
many triumphant over France would mean a 
Germany within striking distance of English 
shores. France needs Britain for her national 
safety. Therefore, French and Russian armies 
have menaced the German frontiers, and British 
warships have for years been awaiting the orders, 
"Find and sink the Germans." 

FORCES AND STAYING POWERS OF EACH CAMP 

In staying qualities the two great groups, if 
each maintains its strength undiminished, are 
about equal. The Dreibund commands better 
equipped, better trained and more easily handled 
armies. On the water, however, the Entente has 
a great advantage. Naval experts are wont to 
measure sea strength by tonnage, number of guns, 
and weight of projectiles. Measured by this test, 
the central European powers are only half as 
powerful as the combination against them. The 
figures given for the Entente are, in round num- 
bers, tonnage, 2,000,000; guns, 800; projectile 
weight, 550,000; those for the Dreibund are: 
tonnage, 600,000; guns, 280; projectile weight, 
200,000. The countries of the Triple Alliance are 
more compact and will find it easier to supply and 
move their fighting forces. Both Germany and 
Austria, however, depend very largely for food 
supplies upon importation. The government at 
Berlin announced at the beginning of the war that 
it could hold out, with blockaded ports, for a year. 
The bulk of the land fighting forces of the En- 
tente, — the Russians, — are less highly trained 
and less efficient than the Germans. Britain, 
moreover, it is said, cannot live more than two 
months on the food she has within her borders 
at any one time. On the other hand, France pro- 



i6 



EUROPE AT WAR 



duces surplus food-stuffs, chiefly wheat, and 
Russia is a limitless granary. England maintains 
her mighty fleet to keep her doors open for food. 
If her ships should destroy the German na\^ and 
blockade German ports, the Kaiser's armies may 
be expected to take their attention from France 
and devote all their energies to seizing the grain 
lands of Russia. 

THE BLIGHT OF MILITARISM 

The blight of militarism has been on Europe 
since the Franco-Prussian war. More than 
16,000,000 trained soldiers in the first lines and in 
the reserves have wasted the substance of the 
continent and lowered its productive capacity. 
The Triple Alliance in times of peace has a million 
and a half men under arms. In times of war this 
may be quickly increased to 8,000,000. For pur- 
poses of calculation in the present war, Italy is 
uncertain. Her -quarter miUion soldiers in peace 
and 1,500,000 in war will not probably be placed 
with the Dreibund, which can, however, muster 
for war si.x million without her. On a peace foot- 
ing, the Entente counts 2,000,000 men; in war it 
can muster upwards of 10,000,000. The very pre- 
sence of these armies in times of peace is an incite- 
ment to war. Officers look forward to a conflict 
as their chance of advancement, and the peoples 
are accustomed to the sight of the paraphernalia 
of battle. Besides the economic burden of sup- 
porting them, these armaments have bred jealousy 
and have fostered a spirit of caste and autocracy 
that has kept the peoples of the continent from 
many of the economic, social, and political re- 
forms of which they are in sore need. 

In every one of the si.x major powers, revolution 
of varying degrees of seriousness was the seeming 
alternative to war. In the aggressive powers, 
those that took the initiative,— Austria, Russia, 
and Germany, — miUtary oligarchies have for 
years been facing a social-democratic revolution. 
Russia is still struggling out of Asiatic barbarism. 
Germany, with all her civilization, remains a 
feudalistic autocracy, with a "debating society" 
for a parliament. Austria is a polyglot bureau- 
cracy, which has held together mainly by desire 
for protection against Russia and personal loyalty 
to the Hapsburg family. In none of the three 
are franchise rights fully recognized. In all of 
them industry is taxed to the breaking point. 
Britain, France, and Italy also have their ques- 



tions of land, and labor, and Britain has Ireland. 
Through all of them the "disintegrating ferment" 
of Socialism is preparing for the fall of monarchy 
and special privilege. It was inevitable that mili- 
tarism should force a general war or fall of its own 
weight. Moreover, militarism has expected this 
war for twenty years. During the past decade 
this e.x-pectation has been so widespread that one 
of the aims of taxation in Germany and Austria 
has been that of providing funds for the contest. 

THE STRUGGLE OF TEUTON AGAINST SLAV 

Pan-Germanism has baited Pan-Slavism, and 
Pan-Slavism has challenged Pan-Germanism for 
half a century. Pan-Germanism, represented by 
Germany, is a well-defined movement which seeks 
the common welfare of the Germanic peoples of 
Europe and the advance of Teutonic culture. 
Pan-Slavism, championed by Russia, is less clearly 
formulated, but it, for its part, seeks a union of all 
Slavonic folk for common welfare. These two 
aims are irreconcilable and the two propaganda 
have become the incitement to war. There are 
in Europe approximately 80,000,000 German- 
speaking people, of whom 68,000,000 are in the 
German Empire, and the other 12,000,000 in 
Austria and Hungary. But there are 140,000,000 
Slavs on European soil, — in Russia, Bulgaria, 
Servia, Montenegro, and in the Polish provinces 
of Austria and Germany, in Bohemia and the 
other Slavonic parts of the Dual Monarchy. 
Russia has always regarded herself as the protec- 
tress of the Slav peoples and any attempt to bring 
Slavs under Teutonic domination is looked upon 
as a direct challenge to her. From Lapland to 
the Black Sea the contact between these two 
virile races, the Teuton and the Slav, is always 
seething, and there has seemed to be no solution 
but an appeal to the sword. This bitterness has 
been intensified by the unnatural poHtical geo- 
graphy which the Berlin Congress, — maker of 
nations on the map, — forced on Europe. The 
right of almost every small nation to rule itself 
has been ignored. 

A FIGHT FOR THE MARKETS OF THE EAST 

In the last analysis, Europe's fight is a fight 
for markets. The German Kaiser has been called 
the best living drummer for German goods. The 
Teuton's "Drang nach Osten" has been respon- 
sible for most of the Kaiser's weUpolilik. In the 



WHY THE NATIONS FIGHT 



17 



Near East are the grain fields of Mesopotamia, 
where the race began, and in the Far East are the 
vast markets of India and China. The great finan- 
cial interests of Europe, the powerful bankers and 
the immense industrial establishments, have been 
seeking the commercial conquest of Asia for a 
quarter of a century. This has been behind the 
Eastern question, with the elimination of the Turk 
as a factor. Whatever great power possesses 
Constantinople attains enormous advantages for 
the domination of Asia and holds the highways 
of trade to the Near and Middle East. Britain 
controls the Suez Canal. But German capital 
has built railroads through Asia Minor. Russia, 
by patient intrigue, has welded the little Balkan 
States until a Slavonic wedge from the Black Sea 
to the Adriatic now bars the German's way to the 
Orient. Berlin and Vienna have replied by keep- 
ing the Balkans at war, by establishing the "open 
sore" of Albania, and preventing the Serbs, 
whether Servian or Montenegrin, from being 
Russia's advance guard on the Adriatic. German 
finance must have more lands and people to ex- 
ploit. England threatens the Kaiser's expansion 
on the sea, while Russia, the largest military em- 
pire of Europe, and France, her strongest military 
repubhc, close the Germans in on both land sides. 
Therefore, at any cost must the power of the 
Balkan league be broken. Therefore, the little 
Sanjak of Novibazar between Servia and Mon- 
tenegro (given to the latter at the end of the 
Balkan wars) is frantically clung to by the Aus- 
trians as the gateway to Salonica and Asia. 

HOW THE CRISIS CAME ON 

The assassination of the Archduke Franz 
Ferdinand and his wife, in the last days of June, 
was the first link in the chain of events which 
have brought on the great war play for which 



Europe has been preparing fearfully for a gener- 
ation. 

Swiftly sketched, the drama moved this way. 
Austria claimed that Servia, as a nation, was re- 
sponsible for the assassination. She sent an 
ultimatum to Belgrade, making demands that the 
Servians, as a people, determined to maintain 
their independence, could not admit. She de- 
clared war on Servia and moved an army across 
the Danube. Austria's attack on Servia, in the 
first place disturbed the delicate balance of power, 
secondly, it meant the drawing of another people 
from the Slavonic into the Teutonic system; 
third, it let loose the flood of militarism which the 
dikes of reason and civilization had found it so 
difficult to restrain; fourth, it showed the con- 
tinent that Germany and Austria still meant to 
keep open the way to the East, and that German and 
Austrian goods and German and Austrian capital 
were henceforth to dominate in the Near East 
rather than that of Britain, France, and Russia. 

Austria felt she must chastise the Serbs for 
assassinating the heir apparent to her throne; 
Russia could not see one of her Slavonic wards 
crushed; France, which holds the Russian national 
debt and regards the Moscovite as her only hope 
of recovering Alsace-Lorraine, prepared to sup- 
port Russia. Germany, threatened on both sides, 
felt she must strike quickly. In so doing, the 
Kaiser's strategy ignored the rights of small 
neutral states, and, invading Belgium, brought 
his armies within menacing distance of England. 
And so we have the British fleet and the British 
troops as the last great factor in the tremendous 
conflict. Whatever happens, — whichever side or 
nations be victorious, — it seems inevitable that, 
as a result, there will be a radical change in the 
whole social and economic, as well as political 
and geographical structure of Europe. 



WHY THE NATIONS FIGHT 

BY ALBERT BUSHNELL HART 

(professor of history, harvard untversity) 



FOR the wreck of this conflict which will 
increase from day to day, is there any 
good, clear, inevitable reason? No 

Napoleon has forced his neighbors to war. No 
Bismarck has racked Prussia in order to make 
Germany. No Agadir incident has set off the 
match. No invincible horde is advancing out 



of Asia. Europe got through two Balkan con- 
flicts without general war. 

It is no explanation to say that this king 
or that emperor wants war. No monarch now- 
adays can go against the spirit of his people. 
Every country included is united in what is 
considered a natural war. It is not a war of 



EUROPE AT WAR 



dynasties or statesmen. It is not a war of 
revenge for Archduke Franz Ferdinand. 

Questions of trade and markets play a large 
part in the drama — but it is not the love of 
money which leads great navies to spend 5,000 
million dollars, in order to secure a trade in 
which the profit cannot be more than 200 mil- 
lions a year. This is a war of peoples and not of 
interests. 

The military spirit, commercial expansion, de- 
sire for territory, and the self assertion of great 



RUSSIA 




{J^l^iH^^ 



This outline will aid the reader to see how Austria has 
restricted Servia, first by absorbing Bosnia and Herze- 
govina, then by creating the New Kingdom of Albania. 
The map shows the Balkan States as they were before 
the recent wars, and as they are now with the Terri- 
tories that have been acquired and added to Servia, 
Bulgaria, Greece, and Rumania. 

nations are things that in the long run may over- 
come all the checks of Parliaments and states- 
men and The Hague conferences. But none of 
them could have brought about the fearful con- 
ditions of the year 1914. The strongest and 
determining reason for war is the growth of race 
antipathies. The world has at last realized that 
the political boundaries of Eastern Europe cut 
across older and more persistent divisions of race, 
language and religion, and thus bring conflicts 
with nations and between them. 
Europe is a mosaic of races. In most countries 



the race elements have amalgamated or have 
ceased to conflict with each other. In this crisis, 
the Irish in Great Britain and the Walloons in 
Belgium have sunk their consciousness of race 
in their consciousness of nationality. Eastern 
Europe still bears the marks of the successive 
waves of barbarian invasion out of the heart of 
Asia. The Hungarians and the Bulgarians are 
both races that forced their way into Europe 
where they found the Slavs, the Germans, and 
the Latins. Then the Slavs received the fearful 
weight of the Turkish invasion and for centuries 
lost independence and vitality. 

Yet till recently there was no strong race an- 
tipathy between Germans and Slavs. Germany 
and Russia have not been at war with each other 
since the Czar Peter the Third saved Frederick 
the Great in 1762. Till forty years ago the 
Bohemians and Germans got on tolerably well 
side by side. The race strains which are pulling 
Europe to pieces at last have showed themselves 
by rousing country against country; and inside 
Austria. There the antipathy between Germans 
and Slavs has grown so bitter that, in the judg- 
ment of the Austrian statesmen, the Germans 
must fight Slavs either outside of Austria or inside 
of Austria. They have preferred to make the 
issue perfectly clear by declaring war on the one 
markedly successful and independent Slav state 
outside of Russia. 

The challenge aroused Russia, but did not 
directly concern other Powers farther west. Most 
of them, to judge from the proclamations and 
official communications, are fighting only in self- 
defense. In the midst of the appalling misery 
of the time, there shines out a comic gleam in 
the exchange of discourtesies about mobiliza- 
tion. As soon as the trouble began, every one 
of the four Central European Powers began to 
move troops with all possible speed toward its 
threatened frontiers, at the same time calling 
the world to witness that they were not "mob- 
ilizing." Every nation threatened every other, 
hoping thus to frighten its neighbor into giving 
way without war. The responsibility for the 
war rests upon no individual and upon no one 
nation, but upon the interlocking of Europe, 
commercially, territorially, and racially, so that 
one Power after another was drawn in the mael- 
strom. Perhaps statesmen felt that the cleaning 
time had come at last; and that the rival claims 




TIIK LiA\ AlOiVNS BEFORE I'AIUS, 1S70 



I'lMtuijraiili.L CoiiiiMiiy 



WORLD BATTLES BEING 
FOUGHT AGAIN 



TRAFALGAR 1805 



IN WHICH ENGLAND DEMONSTRATED THE TWO-POWER STANDARD OF HER NAVY AND 

KEPT THE SUPREMACY OF THE SEA 



WATERLOO 1815 



ENGLAND HAS NOW FOR THE FIRST TIME SINCE WATERLOO SENT TROOPS TO WESTERN 

EUROPE, LANDING THEM IN BELGIUM TO KEEP THE KAISER OUT OF 

ANTWERP AS THEY KEPT NAPOLEON OUT BEFORE 

KONIGGRATZ 1866 

THE BATTLE THAT ENDED THE WAR WHICH PRUSSIA BEGAN TO UNIFY GERMANY JUST 
AS AUSTRIA-HUNGARY ATTACKED SERVIA TO UNIFY ITS DOMINIONS 

BATTLES OF THE FRANCO-PRUSSIAN WAR 

TO BE FOUGHT AGAIN ON THE SAME GROUNDS FOR THE SAME STAKE, WHICH IS 
ALSACE-LORRAINE AND THE DOMINANT POSITION IN EUROPE 



EUROPE AT WAR 




O W 

o 
< a 

St; 

Hi -^ 
O .. 

Q- :■ 
z o 

IT " 

— P4 



H O 





y. c 




o w 




J 




■r -J 




OS ^ 




< u 




c/: 




w uT 




r^ z 




o ^ 




c/i a 




Ba 




;j H 








p^ 


l_] 


M O 


H 


ai 


ti( 


t> U! 




O - 






y 


E J 


c^ 




ej 


.4 f- 


3 


St; 


£ 


H „ 




Z -^ 




ss 


1 


a P 


:; 


H S ;« 


C/2 


_H < 


^ 


as n H 


O 


ScS 


Pi 


'' ?: a 


H 


t. < 2 


t3 


° G 


o 


>- Ul M 


2; 


OS a H 


O 


a y: Q 
^ a J 


o 


S S o 




3 ° 


H 


z S 


K 


o a 


S H 


S t s 


- 


S i- s 


1 


"So 




Q O Z 

5 a W 
*= a a 




a a D 




o o z 


1 


f^ H < 


^^^ 

^SS 




W a u 




^ , 




a '=' 


; 


a a M 


.-•. 




\ 


§ H S 




° < Q 


A = 


o< J s 


1 


o -< <■ 




o « a 




M - a 


■ 5 


J z < 




J z 


\l 


•< < a. 


tl 5 


„ =^ P 


i| Z 


a -c 


M jj 


3 Q « 


5 


;J ^ 


ui a gj 




iii K 


I ^ 


S H H 


1 ^ 


S§° 


I ^ 


^ Q 



OLD BATTLES REFOUGHT 




,^ ENGLAND 'S TWO-POWER STANDARD loo YEARS°"Aro"" " '°'"""" "'" '"" 

COMMERCE. ENGLAND HAS THE SAME PROBLEM Nor 



EUROPE AT WAR 




OLD BATTLES REFOUGHT 



23 




EUROPE AT WAR 




OLD BATTLES REFOUCxHT 




EUROPE AT WAR 




THE PIECE IN DANGER' 



Copyright, 19^.7. by Braun. clement <Sl CuiH^diiy, 



WHY THE NATIONS FIGHT 



27 



and pretensions must be settled by the court of 
war, the only one that executes its own decrees. 

Perhaps this war is what Tolstoi thought all 
wars to be, merely a blind movement of human 
beings, they know not why, and they know not 
whither, like a foray of soldier ants. Neverthe- 
less, reasons for war can be found in the make-up 
of Europe, in the character, in the aims and am- 
bitions of the great Powers. The continent of 
Europe is divided into ten groups of nations. 
Four of these are the minor groups of the Bal- 
kans; Scandinavia; the neutralized Powers of 
Holland, Belgium, and Switzerland; and Spain 
and Portugal. Alongside these and overtower- 
ing them in wealth and military strength, are the 
sLx great Powers, Italy, Russia, Great Britain, 
France, Austria-Hungary, and Germany. 

Europe has for some centuries been divided 
between four main religions. The Moslems up 
to two years ago still counted eight millions of 
Turks, Bosnians, and Albanians, but there are 
now only about three or four millions left in 
Europe. The Protestants, principally Germans, 
English, Swiss, and Hungarians, are about 100 
miUions. The Roman CathoUcs in all the Latin 
countries. Southern Germany, Croatia, Albania, 
Bohemia, and in Russian Austria and Russian 
Poland are about 180 millions. The Greek Cath- 
olics include Russia, the Balkan countries, and a 
few provinces in the Austrian Empire, but by 
no means all the Slavs. Their number is about 
no millions. 

Differences of religion have caused many 
European wars, but during the last hundred 
years every European country has been obliged 
to tolerate churches other than that established 
by the State. These sects are attached to their 
country. Protestant and Roman CathoUc Mag- 
yars are a unit when it comes to a discussion 
of their place in the Austro-Hungarian Empire; 
and there is no visible difference between the 
Catholic Bavarians and the Protestant Prussians 
in their support of their country in the present 
war. 

Four comparatively small groups of people 
of Asiatic origin are the Finns, Magyars, Bul- 
garians and Turks, in all about 14 millions The 
Scandiavian group is small, though effective, 
and the three countries together, Norway, 
Sweden, and Denmark, have ten and a half 
million people. The English, Scotch, Welsh, and 



Irish, between whom there seems to be no race 
division in time of national danger are 46 millions. 
The Latin powers, Spain, Portugal, France, Bel- 
gium, and Italy count 106 millions. The 2^ mil- 
lion Greeks are akin to the Latin. The Germans 
in Germany, German Switzerland, and Austria- 
Hungary are a compactly situated mass of 79? 
milhons. The Slavs of Russia, including the Poles 
and not the Finns together with the Rou- 
manians (who claim to be a Latin race, but seem 
to have more Slav blood than anything else), the 
Servians and the various Slavic elements in 
Austria-Hungary are in all in millions. 

Before sketching the status of the great powers, 
the place and influence upon the war of the 
minor groups must be noticed. The Balkans is 
an example to the world of the immense difficulty 
of carrying on states which contain large num- 
bers of people, who in race and in sympathies 
belong to some neighbor. The second Balkan 
War in 1913 came about solely because there were 
so many Bulgarians in Greek and Servian territory 
and so many Greeks and Servians in Bulgarian 
territory. No geographical boundary Hne can be 
made to fit with these race groups. The effort 
to adjust the matter by killing off villagers of 
different race from that of the conqueror of a 
region was so thorough-going as to shock man- 
kind, but not drastic enough to solve the problem. 
If the war is primarily a fight between the organ- 
ized Slavs and the Germans, the Balkans are 
not much interested, since there are only about 
five million Slavs south of the Danube. Emperor 
William last year called for a larger army and a 
bigger war chest, because he felt that the armies 
of the Balkans altered the balance of European 
military power. If the Balkan Powers could 
have stood together till this year, Austria could 
not have declared war on Servia. Bulgaria and 
Greece may easily be drawn into the conflict, 
particularly if, as seems likely, Turkey makes 
war on the German side; and when the general 
peace comes, it must include a settlement of the 
Balkan question. 

The Scandinavian Powers are unwilling sharers 
in the danger of war because two of them control 
the natural entrance into the Baltic Sea; and the 
Swedes are convinced that Russia wants to sub- 
vert them. Portugal is an ally of England, and 
proposes to join in the war. Spain may very 
likely enter the lists if France seems to need aid. 



28 



EUROPE AT WAR 



The three little neutraUzed Powers, Belgium, 
Holland, and Switzerland, have already learned 
what "neutrahty" means between desperate 
nations. The Emperor William a few months 
ago was much pleased by the Swiss manoeuvres, 
because they prove that he could "spare two 
army corps." The remark meant of course that 
neither France nor Germany could safely force 
a way through Switzerland. It meant also that 
the Germans intended to use Belgium as their 
highway into France, treaty or no treaty, in- 
ternational law, or no international law. Hol- 
land has no protection from Germany except 
the troops and ships of the nations that com- 
prise the Triple Entente. 

ITALY 

Italy joined the Triple Alliance about twenty 
years ago, because she was then on very bad 
terms with France. To Germany and Austria 
the Italian navj' and merchant marine were a 
special attraction. 

Italy has three territorial objectives which 
must largely affect her position: (i) on the 
other side of the Adriatic Sea, a decided conflict 
of interest with Austria has developed; (2) Italy 
desires the extension of her colonies, as TripoH 
is at present her only valuable colonial possession. 
Italy desires to annex Trentino, an ItaHan- 
speaking district in the southern Tyrol, and 
Trieste, the population of which is Italian. But 
they might as well attempt to pluck out the right 
eye of Emperor Francis Joseph as to take Trieste 
for it is the only seaport in the Austrian half of 
the Austrian-Hungarian Empire. 

RUSSIA 

Russia has for centuries been a reservoir of 
compressed political gas, pushing in every direc- 
tion for an outlet. When Peter the Great came 
to the throne two centuries ago his country 
was almost shut off from the Baltic by the Ger- 
mans and Swedes — and the Tartars cut him 
off from the Black Sea. War after war was 
necessary to gain free access to the Black Sea 
and the Baltic Sea. Meanwhile the Russians 
pushed into the thinly settled area of North 
Asia until they reached the Pacific. 

The obvious line of approach to the world's 
commerce for Russia is through the Bosphorus 
and the .(Egean Sea to the Mediterranean. That 



route is held by the Turks, who for the last fifty 
years have been backed up by first the English 
and French, and then by the Germans. 

Russia has gradually torn away fragments 
of the Turkish Emph-e along the Black Sea and 
has aided in building Roumania and Bulgaria 
out of the ruins of Turkish provinces. In 1878 
a Russian army marched till it was in sight of 
the minarets of Constantinople, but the English 
under Disraeli compelled Russia to give up the 
fruits of that victory. As the great Slav Power, 
Russia is not always keenly interested in the 
expansion of small Slav Powers; but it has for 
years urged the policy of pan-Slavism, whatever 
that may mean. If the issue of Germans against 
Slav is clearly raised, as it seems to be in this 
war, Russia could no more keep out of it than 
she could forbid her subjects to attend the Greek 
Catholic Church. 

It is a singular fact that till 1914 there never 
had been a serious war between Russia and 
Austria. Though the Russians were defeated 
by the French, English, and Piedmontese in 
1855, and by the Japanese in 1905, they have 
in many wars shown miUtary talent and a fine 
fighting force. Russia is the only nation which 
without the assistance of aUies defeated the great 
Napoleon. 

In case of victory the Russians will certainly 
demand Constantinople, which means that the 
Turk would be finally shoved out of Europe. 
England and France would probably favor that 
solution of the Near-Eastern question. If Sweden 
should be involved in the war, Russia may claim 
part of that country. Some "rectification of the 
frontier" might be exacted from Austria. On the 
other hand, if Russia should be seriously defeated, 
the Finns and the Poles may rise. As late as 1863 
there was an insurrection in Poland. Otherwise 
it is not Ukely that the great colossus of Europe 
will be under any circumstances put in a less 
favorable position than that which she occupied 
at the beginning of the war. 

ENGLAND 

England in this contest is not fighting to gain 
anything new, but simply to hold what she 
has: first of all her commerce. And there seems 
a reasonable chance of protecting English mer- 
chantmen while German and Austrian must lie 
in port or be captured. The Japanese have 



WHY THE NATIONS FIGHT 



29 



undertaken to look after English interests in 
Asia. 

The English hope to shut the German navy 
up in the North Sea, for without a supply of 
food stuffs from other parts of the world Eng- 
land would be starved out after a few months; 
while France, Germany, Austria, and Russia 
can probably feed themselves and their troops. 
The English colonies scattered all over the world 
are a bait to the Germans. Canada, Australia, 
and probably South Africa can take care of them- 
selves, but India is a problem which nobody at 
present can solve. Germany, Russia, or France 
can be badly defeated without losing much ter- 
ritory or dropping a place in the scale of nations; 
but not so with Great Britain. A victory of the 
German powers would infallibly deprive Great 
Britain of a part of her colonies, a large portion of 
her trade; and the prestige of being the greatest 
sea power in the world. 

TRANCE 

Of all the great powers France is the freest 
from internal dissension. The 207,000 square 
miles of the main country has but 40 millions 
of population; and the French have been almost 
in despair because Germany grows so much 
faster and therefore has so many more recruits. 
The colonies of France in Africa and Eastern 
Asia are nearly as large as the United States 
and its dependencies; but they contain only 
41 millions of an indifferent population. Almost 
the whole population of France, so far as it has 
religious affiliations, is Roman Catholic. 

France is supposed to be the thriftiest large 
country in Europe, and is able to raise nearly a 
thousand million dollars a year for national and 
local public purposes; but the debt is more than 
si.x years' national income, and it will be much 
increased by the war. The country has had a 
splendid foreign trade of 1,700 million dollars 
of exports and 2,000 million of imports, and it 
owns a considerable merchant marine. 

If the central powers should get control of the 
sea it would go hard with the French colonies, 
which it is supposed the Germans hope to se- 
cure. What the French expect from the war 
is first of all the recovery of Alsace-Lorraine 
which the school children are taught to con- 
sider two French pro\inces temporarily in pos- 
session of a foreign power. It was a tactical 



mistake for the Germans to wrest from France 
provinces which have shown themselves so French 
in feeling, that they have never been allowed 
to have a popular government. The French 
frontier sweeps about within sight of Metz, 
which is one of the strongest fortresses in Europe. 
If the French have the physical power, and their 
allies wOl back them up, Alsace-Lorraine will be 
claimed as their reward at the end of the war. 

A second important object of France is to wipe 
out the fearful disgrace of the war of 1870 and 
1871. Napoleon the Third put his country m a 
position to be disciplined; but it was the French 
nation, the French people, and the French army 
that were defeated and humiliated. They mean 
to prove to mankind that they cannot be so 
treated a second time. 

AUSTRIA-HUNGARY 

The centre of the crater in European affairs 
is Austria-Hungary, through which for ages has 
run the boundary between the German and the 
Slav races. 

The Austrian-Himgarians have but one sea- 
coast stretching the two ports of Trieste and 
Fiume, beside the mountainous coast of Dalmatia, 
which has a Serb population. Nevertheless she 
has developed a creditable commerce and her 
ships run to Constantinople, to India, and to 
New York. A main object of Austria in this war 
is to push that coastline farther south, wiping out 
Montenegro and part of Albania; or even to follow 
out a plan cherished for half a century to obtain 
a tongue of land between Bosnia and the .iEgean 
Sea, with the port of Salonica. 

The three objectives of Austria in the war 
therefore appear to be: (i) The "execution" of 
Servia as a lesson to all Serbs of what will happen 
to any head that raises itself above the level; 
(2) the extension of territory southward; (3) the 
holding of the Slav population partly b\' force, 
and partly by trying to bring those people to feel 
that their country is in danger. For it must 
never be forgotten that both the Balkan people 
and the Austrian-Hungarian Slavs if they cannot 
be independent will at least not be Russian. 
Probably every group of Slavs inside the Austrian- 
Hungarian boundary will stay there, rather than 
incur any such danger. 

Whatever happens to any other power, Austria- 
Hungary is playing a desperate gambler's game 



30 



EUROPE AT WAR 



in this war. The Magyars who have long hated 
and thwarted the Germans, have now united 
with them to keep their Slav feUow citizens in 
order. If Austria and Germany are victorious, 
the empire wiU be safe for the time; although no 
one outside the boundaries of that empire can 
guess the possibility of Slav risings during the 
war; or the likelihood that the Slavs will take 
to heart the lesson that they must remain in- 
ferior and subordinate in Austrian-Hungarian 
affairs. 

GERMANY 

By common consent the most formidable mili- 
tary power in Europe is Germany. In area 
(209,000 square miles) it is almost exactly equal 
to France, but the population is 65,000,000 of 
whom 52,000,000 are Germans, and 2,000,000 are 
Slavic Poles. With that exception there is no- 
where in the land a seriously discontented race 
element. In its colonies, which are chiefly African, 
the million square miles contain only 40,000,000 
Protestant, 24,000,000 Roman Catholics and half 
a million Jews. 

The national taxes are nearly i ,000 million dol- 
lars a year, and the debt is about twelve years' 
income. The country has a magnificent sys- 
tem of railroads, and canals, and a splendid mer- 
chant marine of more than 3,000,000 tons; and 
an inward and outward trade of 5,000 million 



dollars. No country has ever made such efforts 
to carry on business, government, and military 
affairs in a scientific and systematic way. 

Germany's objects in the war are perfectly 
clear. First of all, to give notice to all the Ger- 
mans in Europe, to the Magyars, and to the 
German, Austrian, and Hungarian Slavs who 
"stay good," the assurance that Germany will 
fight for them and with them. In the second 
place the Slavs outside those two empires are 
notified that the Germanic power is massed 
against them. In the third place, if only Ger- 
many can get the command of the sea (in which 
Austria can be of very Uttle aid) the French and 
Enghsh colonies must fall. A decided land 
victory over the allies in Europe might justify 
the demand for possession of colonies that had 
not been taken by the fleet. Germany is not 
Ukely to look for Russian territory, except per- 
haps one of the German speaking provinces on 
the Baltic; but if she can she will insist upon a 
free hand in Asia-Minor, either by an under- 
standing with Turkey or by crushing Turkey. 
FinaDy, if Germany is able to bring it about, 
HoUand will almost surely be annexed. It is the 
natural distributing point of German commerce, 
and with Holland goes a tidy lot of Asiatic 
islands. A victorious Germany will not go into 
any peace negotiations congress without bring- 
ing home a substantial conquest of colonies. 



TEUTON AGAINST SLAV* 

BY WILLIAM MILLIGAN SLOANE, L. H. D. 



THE European situation seems unreal. We 
shudder to contemplate a general Euro- 
pean war and all its frightful conse- 
quences. Americans who are reaUy such feel a 
much deeper interest in their nearer European 
neighbors, even though the recently adopted 
masses are still, at heart, most concerned with the 
far-off governments and peoples from out of 
which they have lately come. 

But it is absurdly insufficient to look at Europe 
from the west as we mostly do. Great Britain 
and France are full of poignant interest for us, 
Germany to quite the same degree. Their prob- 
lems, internal and external, and their relations 
to each other, are fascinating to the extent of 

•Reprinted, by permissioD. from The Independent. 



absorption. But we forget that they too have 
an eastward outlook and that much of the east 
which to us is far, far away, is for them close by 
and that their policies cannot neglect what we 
see but dimly. It is essential to the comprehen- 
sion of Western politics that we recall how deter- 
minative in the arrangement and alignment of 
powers is a race question which presses upon the 
older western Europe from behind with the ob- 
stinacy of natural law: the oncoming of the Slav, 
the self-defense of the Teuton. Beside it Franco- 
German relations are, however weighty, of minor 
importance. 

The European balance of power was as unstable 
as that of a pyramid poised on its apex. Race, 
religion, nationality, equality, interest, are the 



TEUTON AGAINST SLAV 



31 



stock terms of politics and not one of them has 
a definite meaning. Nationality is the most mis- 
leading of them all, yet it is this vague concept 
which is central to the alarms of the present hour. 
The populations of Europe discriminate between 
Anglo-, German-, Irish-, Italo-, Slav-, and Afro- 
Americans with insistence and give portentous 
reality to these designations because they cannot 
think in other terms. So far as they think at all 
they affect contempt for the assimilative process 
upon which we ourselves rely. 

Russia and Greek Catholicism, Germany and 
Teutonic culture, France and Roman civilization, 
and British imperial sway, each of these has a 
planetary system which revolves about it. Lan- 
guage is not strong enough to depict the passion 
and devotion of the millions upon millions who 
pay and fight, who sacrifice all that life holds dear, 
for these undefinable but poignant conceptions. 
Intertwined with them are all the rest: material 
prosperity, race supremacy, peace of mind, social 
order and justice. 

The pyramid has long been rocking and top- 
pling; indeed the props and guys were always 
there in the forms of treaties and alliances. Each 
of the systems has always been incomplete at the 
edges and sometimes at the very centre. The 
Slavs are not all of the Greek confession, nor un- 
der Russian sway. A large minority are of the 
Roman faith and very many are faithful Moslems. 
The Latins are not all Roman Catholics, many 
are Protestants and among ecclesiastical adherents 
are enormous mmibers of free-thinkers and indif- 
ferent. The number of Roman Catholics among 
Germans, within and without the empire, is as 
great as that of other confessions: the counter- 
reformation is still active throughout western 
Europe, though quiescent in the central lands. 

Accordingly the confessional bond stUl plays 
a major role, possibly the major role, on the stage 
of east European politics. But nationality runs 
it a hard race for first place. The cross purposes 
between the two act and react to produce con- 
fusion, and dim the vision of observers. 

ProUfic as Anglo-Saxons once were, and as the 
Germans still are, no instance is known to history 
of a natural growth of population like that of the 
latest years among the Slavs. They now out- 
number the Germans nearly three to one. Among 
the Slavs there are two lines of division: the aris- 
tocracy and towns-folk, a relatively very small 



number with some veneer of western culture and 
learning, are separated by an abyss from all the 
rest, the overwhelming majority of primitive 
artizans and peasants whose one controlling 
power is fear, fear of the state, fear of the church. 
Then secondly straight through the heart of the 
continent lies Hungary, which divides the north 
from the south Slavs and makes common cause 
with the Germans of Austria, as far as a hated 
necessity requires, to form the Dual Monarchy. 

What with the iron sway of Turkey and the 
stern repression of the Magyars, the south Slav 
differs slightly from his congener of the north in 
speech, institutions, tradition and general char- 
acteristics. But very slightly, after all. They are 
a peasant folk, placid when comfortable, savage 
when roused. Since their emancipation from the 
Turkish yoke, they have produced no ruling class, 
and only a handful of native statesmen and ad- 
ministrators. Servia has a worthless native dy- 
nasty, Montenegro a strong but rude one; the 
other states have had foreign princes imposed 
upon them. 

Since the Slavs appeared in history there has 
been an embittered, remorseless, and often bloody 
struggle for supremacy between Teuton and Slav. 
The elements of humanity commingle in warfare 
to a higher degree probably than in peace; by tak- 
ing prisoners even more than by merchandising. 
Whatever order and control has existed in eastern 
Europe proceeded more or less directly from Ger- 
man sources, and along the broad mark or frontier 
from the Baltic to the Adriatic upon which the 
clashes have occurred, there has been some ad- 
mixture of blood as well as of institutions. 

Until lately there were large numbers of Ger- 
man traders Ln Slavic towns, and in the adminis- 
tration of Russia men with German names were 
prominent. The University of Dorpat was a dis- 
tinguished centre of German learning. Within the 
German lands Slavic laborers were numerous, and 
men with Slavic names rose to considerable emi- 
nence in aU walks of life as far westward as the 
Elbe. Eastern Prussia has large populations of 
Slavs and its Polish subjects in Posen constitute 
a Slavic society which defies assimilation. The 
landed proprietors of Russia's Baltic provinces 
and the merchants of the Baltic seaboard were 
and remain German in speech and tradition. On 
both sides of the frontier there was toleration for 
the respective aliens. 



32 



EUROPE AT WAR 



But within a generation the passion for "nation- 
ality " has become fanatical and insensate. Who- 
ever was a subject must become Russian: in 
Finland the upper classes of Swedish stock and 
culture as well as the indigenous Finns; in 
Poland, where all are Slavs, all must become Rus- 
sian ; in the Baltic provinces Germanism must be 
uprooted and Dorpat was turned into Yurieflf 
with a corps of Russian professors. The same 
fiery zeal in the reverse sense overmastered Prussia 
and Hungary for Teutonizing or Magyarizing all 
the Slavs within their borders. There was from 
North to South a nationalizing passion which 
rekindled the fires of hate and fury until to-day 
the conflagration rages to destruction. 

The flames leaped over and set fire to the Bal- 
kans. Germanism in Austria-Himgary was put on 
the desperately defensive alike by Magj^ars and 
Slavs. At no time within the historic record 
was the race and confessional antagonism as sav- 
age as it is to-day. Nationality and autonomy 
are the warcries. "In the name of liberty" is 
the plea which the combatants shout westward 
as they arm to the teeth, marshal their enormous 
armies and commit atrocity upon atrocity in the 
face of high heaven. The recent Balkan wars have 
completely overset the mihtary equilibrium of 
Europe, because they have placed on its military 
map at least a million disciplined troops with the 
lust for combat engendered by their war of eman- 
cipation and the internecine conflicts for national 
grandeurs into which it degenerated. 

Austria-Hungary is the most extraordinary 
congeries of unrelated parts ever compacted into a 
nominal state. On ever}^ treasury note the deno- 
mination and value are printed in about twelve 
languages, so that it may circulate throughout 
the monarchy, and there are some eighteen groups 
of population that lay claim to "nationality." 
Within Cis-Leithia, which we know as Austria, 
lies the kingdom of Bohemia, overwhelmingly Slav 
and vociferous for recognition as such. Trieste 
is almost a pure Italian city, lower Tyrol is Italian, 
and the townsfolk of Dalmatia are Italians. The 
districts of Carniola and parts of Carinthia are 
Slav again. Trans-Leithia, which we know as 
Hungary, is ruled by Magyars, but within its 
limits are millions of Slavs; and Croatia, which is 
pure Slav, possesses a would-be autonomous local 
government standing by treaty in the same or a 
similar relation to the supreme Hungarian power 



as that in which Hungary stands to Austria. Yet 
the "Hungarian" seaport of Fiume is almost a 
pure Slav city. 

Confessionally the Slav subjects of the monar- 
chyareof theRoman faith, though in certain places 
there are small congregations of the Greek faith. 
The recently annexed provinces of Bosnia and the 
Herzegovina belong to the monarchy as a whole; 
their populations are pure Slavs, mainly of the 
Greek confession; though the higher social classes 
are faithful Moslems, and the immigrant adminis- 
trators and traders from the monarchy are Roman 
Catholics. Control is generally Germanic, stig- 
matized as the sauerkraut and sausage regime. 

But all over this unprecedented mosaic of race, 
religion and language, a German dynasty reigns 
and the once all-powerful German influence still 
largely predominates. The German empire in its 
entirety, whether Roman Catholic or Protestant, 
e.xists to-day as it is because Austria was e.xpelled 
from the German hegemony, but its peoples and 
its rulers have a deep concern for Austria-Hungary 
as a bulwark against the ever-rising and surging 
tide of Slavic numbers and a menacing inundation 
of lower civilizations. 

Within the Triple Alliance of Germany, Austria- 
Hungary and Italy, the relations of the two 
former are thus much closer than those of Italy 
with either. The dominant figure of the triple 
alliance is of course the German Emperor, and 
by an overmastering wfll, backed by military 
power of portentous strength both afloat and 
ashore, he has until now kept, indeed commanded, 
the peace of Europe. This has been to the immense 
advantage of his people, as they clearly imderstand, 
but a peace lord who is a war lord as weU has an 
unen^^able task in restraining a military party 
of great influence straining at the leash when 
wars are raging and insults fly hurtling through 
space from defiant foes, increasing yearly in 
strength and self-reliance. 

German socialism, stripped of all its trimmings, 
is nothing more or less than good old-fashioned 
American patriotism, a determination to share the 
offices high and low with the privileged classes and 
enjoy the social distinctions as well as the emolu- 
ments pertaining thereto. Ambition for power 
and the pomp of power stir the breast of the 
humble. Thus far German socialism is not ui- 
ternational and is not likely to become so. Yet 
it is a serious weakness in a svstem so hierarch- 



TEUTON AGAINST SLAV 



33 



ical as that of Prussia, or even in the other more 
democratic states of the federal empire. 

Had the United States a Russia on one shore 
and a France on the other, with not one truly 
friendly power on either side, we could visualize 



of Germany is the t-enure and treatment of Alsace- 
Lorraine. The truth about this question is at the 
bottom of the well : the keenest French observers 
declare that the provinces would be entirely con- 
tent as an autonomous state in the federal Ger- 



the problem of the German empire, perhaps even man empire and do not desire reincorporation in 




Gis^m^'^S £ A 



THE RACIAL DISTRIBUTION OF MODERN EUROPE, WHICH HAS BEEN ONE OF THE MOVING CAUSES OP THE PRESENT WAR 

(Of the areas left in white, Turkey is non-European, Albania non-European and an insoluble mi-xture in addition, 
Hungary probably of non-European origin, and Switzerland, divided up between German, Frenchman and Italian, is 
so small on this map that an [indication of division by race is practically impossible. There are in round figures, 
140,000,000 Slavs in Europe, 100,000,000 Teutons (including Scandinavians), 100,000,000 to 110,000,000 Latins, and 
45,000,000 Anglo-Saxons) 



TEUTONIC 
ANGLO-SAXON 



realize it. The vast extent of her land frontier is 
a decided weakness. Another is over-population j 
sixty-six millions on a territory about the size of 
Texas and not comparable in fertility of soil and 
natural resources. Already by the magic touch 
of scientific agriculture but httle is imreclaimed 
and most yields to the very limit of its capacity. 
Still another weakness is the Polish question, 
which renders Posen a focus of discontent and 
exhibits the futility of all efforts at Germanization 
of unwilling Slavs. But the most serious weakness 



I SLAV 
j^ RUMANIAN 

France. But France desires it, and cannot con- 
done their loss. The HohenzoUerns have con- 
quered the German home, they desire no world 
conquest, but they mean to defend to the death 
what they have secured. 

As between Germany and German Austria the 
bonds of trade and sympathy are many and 
powerful, but the religious question lies athwart 
union in any calculable period. Prussia is still a 
Protestant, intensely Protestant power, although 
the natural increase of Romanists is in excess of 



34 



EUROPE AT WAR 



any other element. In a high sense Prussian pol- 
icy is German politics, and the majority of Pro- 
testants throughout the empire steadily dwindles. 
The entrance of GermanAustria would throw them 
into a hopeless minority. Nevertheless the ques- 
tion is as yet not perilous, for stancher patriotism 
than that of Bavaria, the Rhineland, and West- 
phalia does not exist in Prussia proper, or Saxony, 
or Wurtemberg. 

To these elements of strength and weakness 
possibly another should be added; the prosperity 
in commerce and industry of all Germany. Based 
on unprecedented expansion of credit, this is 
therefore an exceedingly delicate structure. In 
the alarms of a few years since it was the mer- 
chants and bankers who commanded a halt and 
a return to sanity. 

Ultimately the increase of numbers may call for 
territorial expansion to the eastward or a des- 
perate effort at it, but for the present German 
policy is easily legible: to maintain what it has, 
to strengthen Austria-Hungary against the Slav, 
and to repel the advance of its own eastern 
neighbors, — perhaps even to drive them far 
behind their present lines. For success in this she 
must be strong enough to hold France in check, 
and to that end she recently enlarged her arma- 
ments. 

Russian power viewed from without is portent- 
ous. With her population of a hundred and sixty- 
eight millions, it seems as if she could put some 
millions of troops in the field, overpower all 
Europe, and constitute herself suzerain of Slavic 
peoples as well as of the Greek Church — to which 
position she has long laid claim. But so vast, so 
imorganized, so inert is most of her empire, that 
its very weight seems often to threaten a break. 

But her most salient weakness is the double 
question of Finland and Poland, with their sense 
of outrage and resistance to Russian influence. 
It was no wonder that she could not coerce Japan, 
or even conquer Turkey without Roumanian help ; 
howsoever many men she may have under arms, 
there is always a Polish terror, of major size, 
and a Finnish nightmare less in dimension but 
equal in grimness, — at the very door of St. Peters- 
biu-g, moreover. And the haunting spectre of 
intestine violence can only be concealed by troops 
and police. The national territory must be gar- 
risoned against Russian, Polish, and Finnish dis- 
content. 



Apparently her Government measures great- 
ness solely by size, so steady is its advance to the 
eastward in the seiziu-e and occupation of territory 
or the establishment of influence zones. Quan- 
tity is the relentless foe of quality and nimibers 
are the Iscariot of eflaciency. The modem world 
is all astray on this question, and Russia seems the 
blindest of the blind. Her northern frontiers are 
fortified by their Arctic position; her others are 
the weakest possible, the most vulnerable in all 
their extent. Her policy is not easily legible, but 
in the Triple Entente, the bonds of which until now 
appeared very slight, there is of course a threefold 
understanding which gives some guarantee of her 
swollen dimensions and assures her a free hand for 
the defensive if not for the offensive. A hege- 
mony among the Slavs she maysecure if she strikes 
successful blows for the Servian cause, but a pro- 
tectorate in form never. She has never been able 
to charm her southern relations, and the great 
secret service of spies innumerable which she 
maintains among them exasperates, sometimes in- 
timidates, but never cows them. 

Why protect Servia? Why bring all Greek 
Christians under her religious sway? Why set up 
a Pan-Slavic federation? Why the pogrom and 
Jew baiting? Why swell her empire to bursting 
with zones of influence in Central Asia which belie 
their name in that they do not bind? Why the 
browbeating of Armenia and the hounding of Tur- 
key? There seems no sense and Uttle unity in 
the enormous programme. 

If there be any solution of the riddle at all, 
it lies in her persistence that her door-key may be 
wrested from Moslems and the exit to the area 
of world commerce through the Straits as well as 
through the Baltic be her very own to command. 
It is not given to outsiders quite to comprehand 
how everything works together to that end, but 
we hear it with perpetual iteration and it may be 
so. Meanwhile we somehow feel that Russia 
resembles the athlete who ran so far to gain im- 
petus that on the take-off line for the jump he fell 
in exhaustion. The preUminaries have hitherto 
been so protracted that accomplishment halted. 

Since Russia has had armies on European battle- 
fields their laurels have been those of subsidiaries 
rather than principals. It was not until Yorck 
and his Prussians went over to the Russians at 
Tauroggen in 1813 that the standards of the Czar 
advanced by self-impulsion. We are told on 



TEUTON AGAINST SLAV 



35 



good authority that the existing army, entirely 
regenerated since the Treaty of Portsmouth, longs 
and even lusts to redeem its good name. Therein 
hes the danger of the hour. 

Should Russia restore to Finland the Hberties of 
which she has been robbed, should she grant auton- 
omy to Russian Poland as a buffer state between 
the Russian Orient and the German Occident and 
liberate a nation of twenty-four millions, Roman 
and romantic in religion and culture, her greatest 
internal danger would be diminished if not re- 
moved. But of this there is little chance, so fanat- 
ical is Greek ecclesiasticism and so powerful at 
St. Petersburg. 

The Servian protectorate is ancillary to the 
broad Russian policy. The writer in his recent 
book on the Balkans has quite fully explained the 
genesis and described the distribution of the Slavic 
stock in the great southeastern peninsula of Eur- 
ope. It sufHces to say here that the Serbs are the 
purest and most numerous branch of the southern 
Slavs. They are numerous in Hungary proper 
round about the city of Temesvar, they are almost 
exclusively the inhabitants of Croatia, Slavonia, 
Istria, Dalmatia, Herzegovina, and Bosnia. Of 
their confessional divisions we spoke in another 
connection. Within the Austria-Hungarian do- 
main they number about five millions; without, in 
Servia, Montenegro, and elsewhere about as many 
more. These last are almost exclusively of the 
Greek faith, among the former possibly a fifth are 
also of that profession. Hence the concern of 
Russia, real or professed, for the orthodox who 
are anxious before the militancy of Romanism. 

Thus divided the independent Serb states have 
remained insignificant in the power of their 
poUtical sovereignty and are so still. But they 
have been impassioned apostles of the Great 
Servia idea and through a desperate propaganda 
have infected the Austrian subjects of their own 
stock. It is the unrest within the dual mon- 
archy which more concerns its government than 
even the devihsh complots which find hospitality 
in Servia and have found two victims in the 
Austro-Hungarian heir and his morganatic wife. 
The war on Servia may be merely punitive, but 
it is really a terrible warning to those within 
Austria-Hungary to cease from troubling. 

The dream of a united lUyrian kingdom began 
with the hberation of Servia from Turkish misrule. 
But thecongress of Vienna and Waterloo quenched 



all hope during thirty years. Hungary considered 
Croatia as a mere province and exasperated the 
Croats by an effort to Magyarize them. Their 
Emperor gave them a patriotic Ban or viceroy in 
1848, the famous Jellaschich, who in the crisis of 
his long career turned all his folk in frenzy against 
Hungary during her struggle for independence and 
saved the Hapsburg monarchy from extinction. 
The efforts of Joseph II to Germanize Croatia 
were vain, but it kept its identity. In 1868 an 
unsatisfactory "compromise" was forced on it. 
In spite of Hungarian stubbornness this charter 
has been several times modified in a sense favor- 
able to Croat aspirations, but the people still 
cherish resentment. They have as Ban a repre- 
sentative of the Hungarian crown, a national diet 
in control of local affairs, including courts and 
schools, and at Buda-Pest they have one member 
in the ministry vnth three members of the upper 
and forty of the lower house. There are endless 
wranglings and sometimes rebellious outbursts of 
violence as Hungary seeks to recall more or less of 
what has been wrenched from her, and Croatia to 
wrest from her a higher degree of autonomy. The 
Servians elsewhere sympathize, especially those not 
in Croatia-Slavonia but directly under Austrian 
administration. If we may trust our judgment 
based on personal observation, Austria-Hungary 
has seized the occasion of the hideous crime so 
lately committed to secure peace within her own 
borders by the punishment of Servia. 

France has always had a noble sentimentality 
for the insurgents against any "oppressor" ex- 
cept herself, and claims for herself the liberation 
of Greece. It is hard that Austria-Hungary should 
pitUessly monopolize and regulate Servian trade, 
as she does; the enlarged Greece suspects the 
dual monarchy of seeking a highway of her own 
to the ^gean and desires to reserve for herself 
the transit and outlet for Servian commerce to 
the Mediterranean. Hence Servia may hope 
for at least moral and possibly for material aid 
from France and Greece as well as for the protec- 
tion of Russia. During the recent wars Servia 
amazed the world by the regeneration of her army 
as a fighting machine, and that of any invader, no 
matter how efScient, is hkely to meet with fierce 
resistance. 

Italy still harbors a deepseated distrust of her 
next-door neighbor in the alliance and their in- 
terests clash on the Adriatic. At its head is an 



36 



EUROPE AT WAR 



Italia irredenta under Austrian rule, and opposite 
in both Montenegro and Albania they have con- 
tlicting desires. The dynasty of the former is kin 
by marriage to the House of Savoy, and a German 
prince, if he of Wied ever gets a firm seat as Mpret 
of Albania, is not likely to favor Italian interests 
to any disadvantage for the powerful Austrian 
Lloyd Steamship Company, for long years the 
adroit and insinuating queen of the Adriatic, at 
least on the eastern shore. 

Finally there is the movement, inchoate as yet 
and not very assertive but nevertheless of im- 
portance, to combine into a common interest the 
hitherto disjointed and mutually suspicious poli- 
cies of the nations which border on the Mediter- 
ranean, for protection against the great commer- 
cial powers which make it a world's highway, 
notably Great Britain and secondarily Germany, 
France, Italy, and Spain are Latin, the new 
Greece at least classical in its aspirations and 
maritime to the utmost. From Gibraltar to the 
great Syrtis Spain, France, and Italy hold the 
African coast. While Italy alone has hopes of 
important colonization in its possessions, since the 
population of the others is stationary, all are en- 
gaged in the development of their possessions 
and the commerce which accompanies it. Each 



aspires to expand its Mediterranean importance: 
all are impatient of British supereminence on its 
waters. The maintenance of present conditions 
is manifestly the British policy and the line of her 
Mediterranean fortresses will not be without the 
support of her fleets whatever the understanding 
with France and Russia may be. 

The efforts of the British Government, seconded 
by that of Germany, to keep the peace of Europe 
or at least localize the war, were as commendable 
as they were manifestly sincere and to the im- 
mediate interest of both. The struggle for the 
world's carrying trade is not entirely confined to 
Great Britain and Germany, nor the rivalry in 
building great fleets to defend it. French and Ital- 
ian and Austrian, even Russian and Japanese, 
packets ply many a far distant main. Yet separ- 
ately or combined they are minor rivals. The 
great ones can emulate each other in peace for 
mercantile supremacy. It were well for the 
world if they had combined to maintain the un- 
stable equilibrium of the balance of power to 
which reference has been made. The internal poli- 
tics of both are imeasy and in both there are por- 
tents of social upheaval, but their stability and 
domestic balance are rockfast compared with that 
of the other great powers. 



THE TWO GERMANYS 

BY OSWALD GARRISON VILLARD 



WHAT attitude shall conscientious Ger- 
man-Americans take toward the war 
of nations now convulsing Europe and 
particularly toward the country of their ances- 
try? The question is one to cause no end of 
heart-break, not only to them but to numerous 
Americans as well, who for one reason or other 
find themselves in debt to German learning or 
German kindliness. Should they imitate the 
multitudes who are shouting " Germany, right or 
wrong!" and waive all effort to place the blame by 
some such conscience-salve as the phrase, "The 
Kaiser has sources of information not open to the 
public and knew he had to strike or be over- 
whelmed"? 

There are plenty of other reasons given in de- 
fense of the Kaiser. He is a new St. George 
slaying the Slavic dragon who would destroy the 
civilization of western Europe. He and his people 



are the victims of British envy and jealousy due 
to their extraordinary conquests on the seas and 
in the marts of the world. A hatred of forty-three 
years and a never-quenched desire for revenge 
explain the actions of the French as well as their 
alliance with the Czar of all the Russias. Mis- 
information, ignorance, garbled despatches from 
French, Belgian, and English sources, and lack of 
appreciation of the fact that the Kaiser is the true 
protector of the intellectual aspirations and the 
superb idealism of his people, — all these are the 
reasons why pubHc sentiment in the United States 
is on the side of the Kaiser's enemies. In brief 
every man's hand has been raised against Ger- 
many because, as the Kaiser put it, God has been 
with her; she has prospered exceedingly and the 
wicked now rejoice that evil days have come upon 
her. This and much more is put forth by those 
who are for "Deutschland, Deutschland iiber Alles." 



TWO GERMANYS 



37 



What intensifies the difiiculty of the German- 
American is that there are two Germanys. One 
is that of the Kaiser and of the military autocracy, 
those who believe in the divine right of rulers, in 
the mailed fist, in government by aristocracy, in 
might as against right, and have taught the doc- 
trine that peace can only be assured if all the 
nations be armed to the teeth. Its adherents 
are those who see in the W afenrock another hat 
of Gessler, before wiiich the pubHc must bow. 
They uphold the ofiicers who cut do\\-n lame 
cobblers or run through civilians at some fancied 
insult, and applaud those w^earers of the uni- 
form who resort to the duel, long since outlawed 
by the enlightened sentiment of the world. These 
are the Germans who entrench in power the en- 
nobled and enriched classes; who are without 
trust in the people and are utterly opposed to any 
extension of democracy, relying for aid upon a 
subservient bureaucracy; who support the Prus- 
sian Government in its refusal to remove the in- 
equalities among voters within its electorate, — 
against which 100,000 Prussians protested last 
year on a single day. 

Incidentally they are of the type that gives so 
much ofiense to the rest of the world. They are 
arrogant and supercilious and frankly without 
faith in anything save the power of the sword. 
It is they who have dictated the foreign policy 
which has made friends of practically nobody. 
It is they who under Bismarck's leadership ori- 
ginally entered in 1882 the game of taking the 
lands of backward races, in which all their neigh- 
bors and we ourselves have indulged. It is they 
who give the utterly false impression that all 
Germany has been bent on conquering where it 
could. It is they who make a large part of the 
world forget that the Germans are among the 
most lovable, useful, and enlightened people; 
that they are bound to us by ties that ought to be 
indissoluble. Have they not enriched our blood? 
Did they not come to us by the hundred thousand, 
fleeing from home because of a noble idealism 
which they transferred to our country, pledging 
their faith with their blood upon our battlefields of 
civil strife, — but always on the side of the Union 
and human liberty? Surely no German-American 
who really believes in repubhcan institutions, in 
popular government, in the ideals of Washington 
and Lincoln, can uphold this Germany. 

But there is another Germany besides this one 



of the autocrats, — totally different, infinitely 
nobler. It is the Germany of the great souls who 
have really made the spirit of the nation, its 
thinkers, its teachers, its scientists, its civic ad- 
ministrators, its poets, its glorious musicians, 
its philosophers, its idealists, its patriots of the 
wars for freedom and of the lost struggle for 
Hberty in 1848. 

OUR DEBT TO INTELLECTUAL GERMANY 

To this Germany thousands of Americans owe 
a debt of never-ending gratitude. From it hosts 
of our teachers, our professional men without 
number, and others in every rank of life have 
dra\vn their most cherished inspirations. To it 
we (jwe in considerable measure our university 
development; from it came in large degree the 
impetus toward good civic government which has 
been one of the glories of our American progress 
in the last two decades. From this Germany 
Lloyd-George has plagiarized those plans for the 
improvement of the welfare of the masses which 
have made him at once the best-beloved and best- 
hated man in Great Britain. 

In the civic care of its own this Germany has 
led the world, with all to do it reverence. It has. 
known best how to build the city beautiful and 
made good and progressive government the 
birthright of all its urban dwellers. In no other 
nation has science in the same degree become the 
partner of commerce and of industry. Nowhere 
else has there been a keener, if as keen, an intel- 
lectual freedom among those whose lives are ded- 
icated to the pursuit of truth, or to the instruc- 
tion of the young. Nowhere has there been a 
greater reverence for the aristocracy of intellect 
or as generous a recognition of its achievements. 
To sit at the feet of its inspired teachers, men and 
women have come from all quarters of the globe 
knowing that in a hundred fields this Germany 
led the world. 

And it is this Germany which to-day lies 
prostrate before us. It is this Germany which 
is being slaughtered, whatever the reason or the 
excuse for the war. On behalf of this Germany 
any really enlightened ruler must have stood for 
peace against the world, no matter who might be 
mobiUzing or where. To the support of this king- 
dom the whole intellectual world would have 
risen, — it did in England, — had the Kaiser but 
cried out its need and asked for allies to defend 



38 



EUROPE AT WAR 



and not to break the peace. For if any one who 
realized its moral grandeur and worth ought to 
have been willing to have abdicated rather than 
to plunge it into the abyss, the hell of war. 

But there it lies to be ravaged by its defenders 
and its enemies at will. For it there can be no 
victory, whoever wins. It is not only the laws 
which are silent between arms; all intellectual and 
spiritual activities cease when men's sole thoughts 
are to kill, to destroy, to immolate, to make a 
mocker}- of Christianity. A whole generation is 




^ ■pORTiriE.D 

■*TowMj and crriE-? 



P8NTABIIER.M 



FR.\NCO-GERMAN FRONTIER 

to be wiped out; the flower of the land between 
the ages of nineteen and twenty-four is to be 
sacrificed at a despotic ruler's wUl; perhaps an- 
other Goethe, a Schumann, a Helmholtz, are to 
be cut off in their youth; all the talents these boys 
possess is certain to go for naught. Those who 
survive are to be brutalized by the most frightful 
spectacle of human carnage the world has ever 
seen, — by a sudden reversion to the stone age; to 
preach thereafter the long outworn and blasphem- 
ous doctrine that God is on the side of the might- 
ier battalions. If those of the Kaiser prove to 
be the better drilled so as to kill the greater nima- 
ber of their fellow human beings, intellectual Ger- 
many will not profit but will suffer thereby. 

A HATED NATION 

It is not merely that its spiritual growth has 
been checked and that the pursuit of knowledge 



is at an end. A terrible blow has been struck at 
Germany as the seat of wisdom. International 
bonds of infinite worth have been sundered not 
to be reunited for decades to come; the Germany 
of calm, scientific reasoning has been submerged 
by the mad rush into a war in which the Kaiser 
has staked the Empire itself, as well as every 
achievement of the nation-builders of 1870 and 
of those who have erected the great commercial 
edifice which has been the wonder of the world. 
If there is envy and jealousy now among the other 
nations, will not these feehngs give way to help- 
less rage, to bitter enmity, to dread and fear if the 
greatest of military machines should triumph? 
WiU not there be another Napoleon only a shade 
less dangerous than the overlord of a century 
ago, to inspire distrust and to court another 
Waterloo? 

And if Germany is conquered and lies prostrate 
in sackcloth and ashes what endless humUiation 
will be hers! What dreams of revenge upon all 
the world may not then fill the minds of those who 
so gaUy set out to humble their sister-nations to 
east and west? Is it not certain that whatever 
the outcome, Germany will for decades be the 
most hated of nations? Every reactionary ele- 
ment in the German Empire, every privileged 
class, every believer in the divine right of the 
few who have obtained power, every mOitarist 
and imperialistic tendency will have been strength- 
ened at the expense of the liberalism and culture 
of Germany, — a Germany burdened with a hor- 
rible millstone of debt, — of which it can shift 
only a part, at best, upon the conquered, if it 
v/ins. 

Here is precisely where a chief wickedness of 
the war policy Lies. Nearly four rruUion of Ger- 
man citizens have enrolled themselves in a party 
to belong to which the Kaiser declared at Essen 
a few years ago was to commit treason to the 
nation. These traitors now have been forced 
into the ranks, but the evUs against which they 
protested are no less, their devotion to their 
cause is the same. They have fought imperialism 
at every turn, only to be boimd and delivered 
now by the old snares, the old teachings that 
one's country must be upheld in war time; that 
it is proper to commit miu-der if one but murder 
by the wholesale, — teachings that are to-day 
doing their anti-Christian work in England. 
France, Russia, and Austria as well. The cause 



GERMANY'S FIGHT FOR POWER 



39 



of liberalism is the chief political hope of Germany 
as against the rule of the Prussian Junker, the 
grasping landlords, the insolent tariff barons, a 
bigoted Catholic clergy as in Bavaria, and the 
mihtary and the aristocratic castes which do 
more to recruit the SociaUst party than all their 
own leaders combined. It is not because of such 
government by the few, as some would contend, 
but in spite of it that the liberal, the cultured 
Germany of to-day is what it is. What might 
it not be if its intellectual freedom were to be 
typical of the freedom of the masses? Now much 
greater might not be the spiritual kingdom which 
it has built for itself under these conditions? 

THE GERMAN MASSES ENLIST OUR SYMPATHY 

The masses of the Kaiser's empire! To them 
surely the sympathy of the world must go out 
as to the poor Belgians who have died about 
Liege without knowing why, realizing only that 
a hell of shot and shell had burst without warning 
upon them as lightning from the sky. On the 
heads of the German masses lies not the blood 
guilt. They come from smiling homes, from the 
castled hills of Thuringia, the vine-clad banks 
of the Rhine, the plains of Prussia, the poppied 
fields of Bavaria. They and their kind have been 
rising steadily against fearful odds, helped on by 
favorable social legislation, held back by the 
heavy taxes imposed by the military Moloch, and 
by their three years of army service; hampered 
in the cities by grinding poverty and checked 
everywhere by iron castes. Their villages have 
only just begun to grow, to give signs of a develop- 
ment corresponding to that of the cities; to them 
have come at least the harbingers of social justice; 
something of the prosperity of the nation was 
beginning to be theirs. But now the mother of 
every son between nineteen and twenty-four years 
must know her boy upon the firing-line, to destroy 
the sons of some other mother, — because the 
"Triple" Alliance demanded it. For these solid 



peasants, the backbone of the country, war can 
bring nothing save woe and debt. 

Will it avail to tell them that the Slavic peril 
must be combated; that in this world- war Des- 
tiny speaks and that it had to come sooner or 
later? Are they not inevitably to count the cost 
when the slaughter is over? Will they not more 
than ever turn to the "party of treason," which 
dictates that such things shall not be? Will they 
not turn to any one who teaches that it shall be 
taken out of the hands of one man or a group of 
men to say whether a nation shall return to bar- 
barism and slay the best that is in it? 

For a German- American whose heart goes back 
to the country that gave him or his fathers birth 
there should be no difficulty in deciding where his 
sympathies should lie, if he be truly an American 
citizen. Sorrow as he must for the German masses 
if he places reason above emotion and sympathy, 
he can but withhold his support from the Kaiser 
who approved in principle the Austrian ultima- 
tum to Servia and made no better than a dicer's 
oath the solemn promise of the Empire to respect 
the neutraUty of Belgium. If he be loyal to the 
principles of this republic, the German-American 
can only hope that absolutism has brought about 
its own downfall ; that this may mark the end 
of Kaisers, as of great armaments. If he has 
owed anything to the great minds of Germany, 
its men of peace, of knowledge, science, and art, 
let him now pay the debt by being true to their 
ideals. He might well remember that Goethe 
himself faced a German army, when it had been 
beaten by ragged French republicans, to assure 
it that then and there a new epoch had begun. 

The immeasurable sins of the rulers of Europe 
and their militarists can only be expiated now 
by the beginning of a new epoch which shall mean 
that the masses shall be the kings of Europe as 
they are the rulers with us to-day; that the last 
vestiges of feudalism shall be swept away to make 
room for government by and for the peoples. 



GERMANY'S FIGHT FOR POWER 

BY FREDERIC COURTLAND PENFIELD 



NOT a few of the German Emperor's subjects 
pretend to be amazed by his grandiose 
utterances, the repeated affirmations of 
his unshakable will, and his confident appeals 



to the divine sanction. But, say his admirers, 
these are permissible to one regarding himself 
as the instrimient of a great and crowning action 
which he is to perform for the lasting glorification 



40 



EUROPE AT WAR 



of his country. It is admittedly a master will that 
has raised Germany to the position she holds — 
that of Britain's foremost rival in sea power and 
as a constructive nation. A critical study of this 
dominant person, whose divine right sway has for 
corollary the rattle of the sabre, compels the be- 
lief that William of Germany is to-day the might- 
iest man in Europe. 

*england's germanophobia 

The most striking thing viewed by the student 
of oversea affairs is the steady advance of Ger- 
many in commercial and political importance, 
and to admit this is to proclaim the Kaiser a 
national upbuilder of matchless ability. Ever 
since his historic cablegram to Paul Kruger, 
England has had a worrying attack of Germano- 
phobia. It used to be assumed that almost ever)-- 
thing done by Germany was meant to awe and 
overshadow France, and a generation of French- 
men had this belief. But practical Germany long 
ago saw that Teutonic virility and the stationary 
French birthrate would by 1915 secure two lusty 
Germans to the earth for every Frenchman. 
Rivalry with her former foe then ceased, and the 
brawn and brain of the Fatherland were stimu- 
lated to rear a nation worthy of a more conspic- 
uous rival — the true object of German envy — 
the British Isles, from which a fifth of the globe is 
ruled. 

Upon this nerve-centre was Germany's co\etous 
eye directed. In time the fact dawned upon 
England, and from that moment she has been in 
a state of chronic fear, with fright amounting on 
occasion to panic. From rostrum and editorial 
column Germany is pointed at as a country whose 
abiding ambition is the ultimate conquest of 
England, and it is said often that the Hohenzol- 
lern is but biding his time for beginning operations 
to that end. Once only flippantly regarded, the 
words "Made in Germany" now bring sleepless 
nights to industrial Britain. 

At his breakfast table John Bull reads that Ger- 
many is ordering numberless dreadnoughts. The 
evening papers have heavy headlines stating that 
Germany is planning to convert Holland into a 
pro\ance for the undisguised purpose of bringing 
Germany into striking distance of Great Britain, 



by commanding harbors and coastline within 
easy steaming distance of Albion. Alarmists 
parade circumstantial facts proving that Ger- 
many's activities at Borkum are transforming 
that Friesian haven into a veritable "Gibraltar," 
adding thereby to the chain of North German 
ports bringing the naval power of the Kaiser a 
hundred miles nearer to England. " Borkum " was 
the favorite topic of the last "silly season" in 
London journalism, and all English papers spas- 
modically prate of the "German peril." 

Meanwhile consols have been falling until the 
lowest value in seventy years was recently 
reached; and in no similar condition of fear have 
the British been since the times of the ambitious 
Corsican. Toy machines flying after dark have 
been deemed to be airships — undoubtedly Ger- 
man — reconnoitering the country, and every 
ignis fatuiis has been the lantern of a German spy 
collecting information about British defenses. 
The great mass of Britons have the belief that 
Germany is their determined enemy. 

THE KAISER AS EUROPE'S "TRADE LORD" 

The probable fact is that Germany is but a com- 
mercial foe, and relentlessly this; and if tireless 
industry can bring it, the Teuton designs having 
at no distant time a share of England's manufac- 
turing and carrying trade. The purpose of every 
patriotic German seems to be to contribute his 
utmost to dethroning Britain's prestige as a busi- 
ness nation and securing it for the beloved Father- 
land. Industrial rivalry can be more drastic than 
armed conflict, and it is Germany's vigor as ap- 
plied in workshop and every field of toil that is 
menacing the British Isles. Battleships and 
added naval bases are merely means to a purpose 
— the exploitation of half the world with German 
products; and the Briton, complacent in the belief 
that his country is superior to any successful ri- 
valry, can be but dwelling in a fool's paradise. 

ks a phrase, "The Mightiest Man in Europe," 
can be defended when it is recalled how the second 
William has vivified with commerce the political 
creation of his august grandparent. It used to be 
the fashion to speak of the Kaiser as the War 
Lord of Europe, but in only a few uprisings where 
colonization was being carried out has Germany 



*Dr. Penfield's article is so able and striking an exposition of Germany's late position and intentions that it has 
been included although it was written three years ago. This should be borne in mind as England's "Germanopho- 
bia," and, very recently, the Kaiser's love of peace seems to have greatly lessened.— The Editors. 



GERMANY'S FIGHT FOR POWER 



41 



fired a shot in real conflict since the present ruler 
came to the throne. To a greater extent than 
any other European monarch is he the examplar 
of peace. He knows that the fruits of thrift are 
better for national stability than the glories of war. 
Hence the proper description is — and no des- 
ignation can be more honorable — that he is the 
Trade Lord of Europe. 

Let it be remembered that under his rule nearly 
every industry has doubled if not trebled, and that 
the commerce of Germany has grown in a way 
ha\ang no continental parallel. Suez Canal re- 
turns prove that the turnstile between Europe and 
the Orient is used by a growing number of ships 
under the German flag, while under the British 
ensign they are yearly falling in number. The 
Kaiser's people are progressing as the result of 
determined industry, and it is a splendid fact that 
the artisan, and not the drill-master, is making 
the Fatherland great. 

William is tireless in getting new markets, and 
nine times out of ten he captures them from his 
British rival. He was one of the first to foresee 
that China could not forever resist the invasion of 
outside enterprise, and almost under his personal 
guidance the bankers and manufacturers of his 
nation have secured a footing in the Middle King- 
dom that must grow to have enormous value. 

GERMANY OUT FOR THE WORLD's COMMERCE 

Anybody may find reasons why William seeks 
to make Germany important through commerce. 
Let it be admitted that he chafes at barriers and 
that there is a boundlessness to his nature. When- 
ever he consults the imperial map, he must per- 
ceive that the frontiers are precisely those be- 
queathed by William the Great, and the loftiest 
ambition of a monarch is to have the national 
domain e.xpand under his rule. The Kaiser shud- 
ders at the crowded condition of the earth in this 
twentieth century, when most frontiers seem per- 
manently fi.xed. The Monroe Doctrine prevents 
his having even a coaling station in the Western 
Hemisphere. This is, perforce, more than an- 
noying, although the sons of Germany control 
numerous lines of trade in many South and Cen- 
tral American repubhcs. In his musings over the 
doctrine it is likely that the Emperor may say to 
himself: "Revenge FU have upon the countrymen 
of Monroe by capturing every sort of trade; 
yes, I'll make Germany the workshop of the uni- 



verse. To perdition with the Doctrine! Keep 
your territory — I'll get my share and more of the 
business of your continent!" 

The Trade Lord had always known that the East, 
teeming with humanity like ants, was rich beyond 
the dreams of avarice, and had packed the coffers 
of England and given dominance in world power 
to the Britons. Consequently a legion of trade- 
getters was hurled five or sLx years ago upon Asia, 
and these planted outposts in Ceylon, sent a 
column of bagmen to India and the Malay States, 
and placed commercial pickets everywhere in 
China and Japan. 

It was discovered early that England held no 
title to Eastern commerce, and none that was 
absolute to that of Australia. Britons following 
the time-honored custom of seUing goods of kinds 
that they assimie foreigners should have, the pliant 
and patient Germans are glad to furnish what the 
buyer prefers, and consequently gets many or- 
ders. It is understood that the Hohenzollern 
personally considers every diplomatic and con- 
sular appointment to the Celestial Empire, and 
that commercial aptitude is the prerequisite of 
assignment — and each official knows that the 
Kaiser's interest in Chinese business amounts to 



mania. 



A GREATER GERMANY 



Germany's colonies are unpopular at home, 
because of the yearly drain upon the exchequer. 
This fact, although unimportant, when taken 
with the impossibility of territorial control on 
this side of the Atlantic, has had its share in 
directing energy into channels of trade, for none 
other was open — and every progressive German 
knows that national welfare based upon com- 
merce is aggrandisement in its safest form. "We 
can now only build up our resources," explain 
Berlin wiseacres, "but the next generation will 
see a greater Germany, possessing in all proba- 
bihties the Netherlands, striking southward to 
Trieste on the Adriatic, and including Palestine 
and a considerable area in Asia Minor, as well." 
A larger Germany seems as inevitable as the re- 
currence of the seasons, and will probably come 
when Europe again falls upon war and map- 
making. Should there be a parceling of Austria 
following the demise of the beloved Franz Josef, 
Germany's aspiration of access to the Adriatic 
may be achieved; and the Germanizing of the 



42 



EUROPE AT WAR 



Holy Land may be accomplished whenever the 
powers finally decide to rend the Ottoman prov- 
inces. 

With the Germans it is vmpalatable to have the 
mouths of the mighty Rhine controUed by a small 
and none too friendly neighbor. It is easier to 
predict that at some time Holland wUl be gov- 
erned from Berhn than to state how this is to be 
accomplished. Invasion would be resented by 
more than one government, but subtle persuasion 
might bear fruit. The late Dr. Emil Reich not 
long since had the temerity to assert that the time 
is not remote when Holland will be called upon 




THE RUSSIAN FRONTIER 

to defend her title to vast Java against an Asiatic 
invader, and must have aid or lose her Eastern 
colonies. Alliance with Germany, he insisted, 
would preserve the integrity of the Dutch pos- 
sessions, and the price would be Holland's accept- 
ance of rule as an individual state of the German 
Empire. 

DUTCH DEFENSES 

The proposal that the Dutch spend $18,000,000 
in coast defenses, while the frontier with Germany 
is undefended, has roused much comment. Some 
British statesmen have asked who is to benefit by 



the defensibUity of Holland's coast, while others 
pretend to have heard of a "fatherly" letter from 
the Kaiser warning Wilhelmina to put her realm 
in condition to resist invasion from the sea. 
Failing to heed the Hohenzollern's ad\'ice, these 
men of prescience claim, the Queen was cautioned 
that in the event of foreign war Germany might 
have to take over control of her country. 

Germany is not a government only knowing 
absorption when territory is acquired. Each of 
her twenty-si.x states to a considerable e.xtent re- 
tains its independence. Bavaria, for example, 
has her own king, laws, and army. "If Germany 
proposed to Holland'' — wrote Dr. Reich — "to 
become the twenty-seventh state of the empire, 
Holland would not be obliged to abandon queen, 
language, or laws. The Dutch would send 
deputies to the Reichstag, and Germans would be 
permitted to enter merchandise free of duties in 
Dutch harbors. Why should the Dutch consider 
such a union? To this there has been a strong 
answer ever since Japan's victor)^ in the war with 
Russia. The matter borders upon the impera- 
tive." 

Germany is spending enormous sums in im- 
proving her North Sea defenses, is fortifying Hel- 
goland, and converting Emden — near the mouth 
of the Ems — into a harbor accommodating any 
fleet, thereby bringing nearer to the open sea 
the naval strength of the Kaiser. Germany has 
the amplest right to develop ports and fortifica- 
tions within her border, certainly without con- 
sulting the opinion of England at all in the 
matter. 

BRITISH AND GERMAN DREADNOUGHT 

FLEETS 

It is interesting to watch the "dreadnought 
game," played by England and Germany. The 
press has been at it fast and furious since the 
mammoth fighting machine was perfected. For 
months the contest has been at white heat, in con- 
sequence of which much ink has been shed and 
many heartburnings occasioned in the British 
Isles. BeHeve the newspapers, and England is on 
the brink of ordering many of these leviathans, 
with covmtless guns to go with them. Never mind 
what the Admiralty says, or what the budget per- 
mits, Fleet Street periodically sets out to create 
a flotilla that will brook no rivalry. Then the Ger- 
man press explains exultantly what the Kaiser is 



GERMANY'S FIGHT FOR POWER 



43 



to do, and the programme always "sees" England 
and goes a ship or two better, besides increasing 
the calibre of the guns with each journalistic 
broadside. When these statements reach Albion 
the people can almost hear the din of German 
dockyards, working with "feverish haste" both 
by day and night. 

Each power is fast adding to its sea-strength, 
and the dreadnought type is in demand, as every- 
body knows. But construction proceeds normally 
on both sides of the North Sea. England's ileet is 
the strongest in the world, wliile Germany's is but 
a poor second. Exactly stated, the present power 
of both navies is this: England has eight dread- 
noughts and Germany four. Of battleships of 
10,000 or more tons displacement, exclusive of 
dreadnoughts, England has forty-nine and Ger- 
many twenty-two. Of armored cruisers — now 
regarded as adding very little to fighting strength 

— England has eighty-four and Germany half 
as many; and of destroyers England has one 
hundred and sixty-eight and Germany ninety-one. 

The cardinal points of interest in the naval 
programme of the countries is this: England 
has ten dreadnoughts under construction, wMe 
Germany is building nine, and debating the 
wisdom of ordering more. Some critics contend 
that, Great Britain being practically all coast, 
and with possessions throughout the world, Eng- 
land's force could not be used as a unit, as Ger- 
many's might. Hence, reason the experts, Ger- 
many already is a match for England. When 
fighting strength is considered, it is almost over- 
powering to the intellect to learn that the German- 
Austrian alUance means that 7,000,000 soldiers 
receive the word of command in German. And 
the idea is abroad that this command is given 
from Berlin. 

When William II came to the throne in 1888 
the imperial fleet was insignificant. His energy 
has raised the service to second place among the 
world's navies. With an army of four million men 

— several times greater than England's home 
force — experts claim that in the event of hostil- 
ities with Russia or France a fleet would scarcely 
be required. With Austria, likewise creating a 
powerful navy, Germany can have no dispute, 
for the countries are allies. 

"What is the purpose then, of the navy that 
Germany will possess by 191 2?" ask English 
writers. One of these declares that it is meant 



only for the North Sea, and there to be a menace 
to the British Isles. He insists that the ships 
are built in a manner prohibiting their use in 
distant waters. "Yes," concludes this alarmist, 
"Germany's fleet is for the North Sea, and will 
there remain, and beliind it will be everything 
needed for armament, docking, and repairing." 
Possessing no water frontier save the North Sea 
and its connecting bodies of water, an impartial 
observer might inquire why the German Govern- 
ment should distribute its costly fleet upon seas 
where the country can have but httle interest. 
But some British publicists pretend to think that 
only England has a right to the North Sea. 

A GROWING COUNTRY 

The recent quinquennial census shows the 
population of Germany to be 65,000,000, indi- 
cating an increase of 4,500,000 in five years, and 
20,000,000 in thirty years. Dr. Wilhelm Hubbe- 
schleiden predicts that by 1980 there will be 
150,000,000 Germans. The present population 
of the British Isles is 45,000,000, which represents 
an increase of less than 11,000,000 in thirty years. 
In Germany the demand for labor has practically 
checked emigration, while the reverse is the case 
in Great Britain. As might be expected, partisans 
of protection point to Germany as progressing 
by leaps in all material ways, while Free Trade 
England falls behind — in one there is plenty of 
work, while the other has an idle class burdensome 
to the nation. Germany's increase of population 
wiU soon be at the rate of a million a year, and it 
is the purpose of the government to keep every 
patriotic man and woman at home to toil for the 
Fatherland's advance. In England the news- 
papers are filled with advertisements encouraging 
migration to Canada, Australia, and other colo- 
nies. Ten years ago German emigration was about 
121,000 souls annually; last year it was scarcely 
25,000 persons, and nearly all to America. 

Germany's national wealth is now estimated at 
$88,000,000,000, while fifteen years ago it was 
$55,000,000,000. Recent Prussian statistics in- 
dicate that the aggregate taxable incomes of less 
than $750 a year have risen from $775,000,000 
in 1S95 to $1,900,000,000 in 1910 — an increase 
of 150 per cent, in fifteen years. Savings bank 
deposits have expanded in fifteen years from 
$1,125,000,000 to upward of $3,000,000,000, and 
it is held that the average wage has risen in ten 



44 



EUROPE AT WAR 



years from $186.50 to $256.25. This improvement 
is 38 per cent., while cost of living has advanced 
about 25 per cent. The income tax in 1895 
produced $38,000,000, while last year it was 
$73,000,000. 

SUCCESSFUL FARMING 

While economic success has been brought about 
by developing manufacturing, the use of ma- 
chinery and chemical fertilizers is winning from 
the soil a bounty greater than a quarter of a cen- 
tury ago, when the country numbered eight or 
ten million more agriculturists. In many progres- 
sive countries the movement of humanity is away 
from the soU. This is manifested in Germany by 
the fast-e.xpanding population of urban commu- 
nities. With its environs Berlin has close upon 
3,000,000 inhabitants, and offers advantages that 
a generation since were unthought of. Hamburg 
has 1,000,000 people. Here as about Bremen, 
what were green fields a few years ago are now 
harbor basins, and the quays of these ports possess 
every modern appliance for loading and unloading 
vessels. Munich, Dresden, and Leipsic have 
600,000 people each, whUe Cologne boasts of 
500,000. Germany to-day is noisy with industry, 
with skies overhung with mantles of smoke from 
the chimneys of furnaces, chemical works, porce- 
lain factories, and manufacturing plants of every 
kind. 

EXPORTS AND DiPORTS 

In Prussia the northeastern provinces have 
largely been deserted by the young of the farmer 
class for factory employment in the towns. The 
Rhenish-Westphalian coal and iron district at- 
tracts labor from Posen, while thousands of Rus- 
sian and Galician Poles yearly cross the frontier 
to secure a summer's work in the eastern pro- 
vinces. Italians and Croatians are drawn in 
numbers to Germany, where their toil finds liberal 
compensation. Rural prosperity in the past 
twelve years is reflected in a threefold increase in 
land value. An American economist said recently 
that if the farmers of the United States could raise 
crops as prolific as the Germans do, that Uncle 
Sam would be a billion dollars richer each year. 
This praise was meant to apply not alone to the 
son of Germany but to the intelligence of the 
husbandman as well. 

Germany's exports last year were valued at 
$1,750,000,000; a dozen years ago they were 



$701,500,000. Notwithstanding this showing 
the balance of trade is against the country; for 
last year's imports were $914,000,000 greater than 
those of twelve years ago. It should be borne in 
mind that as a nation growing in population, 
whose keynote is manufacturing, the bringing in 
of raw materials to be fabricated is enormous. 
Shipping under the German flag has in a quar- 
ter of a century developed sevenfold, and 64 per 
cent, of the sea freight is carried at preferential 
rates in subsidized bottoms. The realm is hungry 
for trade, that is apparent to any observer, and is 
being made rich by the multiplicity of things 
"Made in Germany." 

There is constant discussion as to whether 
German prosperity is due to the tariff policy 
of protection. Some English pamphleteers insist 
that facts are habitually perverted in the Father- 
land's statistics. More than one Fleet Street 
WTiter, conceding the genuineness of German up- 
building, mourns because Britain is falling behind 
owing to her retention of free trade. Others argue 
that progress in Germany, where every man has 
been a trained soldier or sailor, is largely due to 
the conscription rule, while lagging England has 
volunteer enlistment. The discipline of Germany, 
argue these critics, permanently rouses industry 
and enterprise. 

SOCIALISTIC PROPAGANDA 

Germany's curse seems to be Socialism, spread- 
ing so rapidly that many statesmen are apprehen- 
sive of the length to which it may go. Its spread 
in 1910 was greater than ever. During the year 
the Socialists held thirty thousand meetings, and 
distributed 23,000,000 leaflets and 2,500,000 
pamphlets. The Socialist party has many repre- 
sentatives in the Reichstag who attack any 
measure deemed to be super-monarchical. In the 
Prussian Diet a Socialist member has recently 
said that matters were developing in a way 
making it possible for the German crown to 
be swept away in a night, as was the case in Por- 
tugal. The German Chancellor has seen fit to 
warn the more radical exponents of Socialism 
that they would be held to account for excesses 
resulting from their teachings. 

Save for Socialism, the German nation is homo- 
geneous, while Britain is rent by national in- 
decision and political forebodings. Germany's 
imperial policy seems remarkably continuous. 



GERMANY'S FIGHT FOR POWER 



45 



Its exponents work consecutively, strenuously, 
unobtrusively — theirs is the Bismarckian policy 
of blood and iron, with "ever ready" for its 
v^atchword. 

BRITISH "muck-raking" IN GERMANY 

The sending of British commissions and delega- 
tions to Germany to investigate material condi- 
tions has been the fashion. PoHtical parties and 
leagues and societies advocating this or that have 
had inquisitors ransacking the Fatherland from 
frontier to frontier, and their findings have been 
embodied in tons of reports, some instructive, 
but most of them unconvincing and stupid. 

Hundreds of "Free Trade Leaguers" and 
"Tariff Trippers" have sought the secret of Ger- 
man prosperity, and their junketings have pro- 
duced deductions wonderfully expressed. As 
might have been expected, the predilections of the 
visitors have found ample support as a conse- 
quence of the investigation. Free-traders dis- 
covered that Germany was not prospering because 
of protection, and vice versa. Employers of labor 
invariably learned that the toiling classes were 
poorer paid and worked more hours than at home. 
In fact, every investigator seemed to discover 
what he wished to find. Nearly every delegate 
published his "report," with the result that 
England has had a plague of leaflets. Hundreds 
described what they believed they saw, but one 
tripper tersely told what he did not see, and this 
was the best report of the avalanche. Here is 
what he said of Germany : "No unemployed stand- 
ing at street corners. No drunkenness or brawling. 
No hooliganism. No slums of poverty as in 



England. No discourtesy. No begging or hawk- 
ing. No deformed persons. No land out of culti- 
vation. No ragged children. No late trains." 

The alarming discovery was made that thou- 
sands of poor subsist in part on horseflesh, and to 
prove the horror scores of investigators brought 
home the public advertisements of horseflesh 
merchants. These produce an outburst of right- 
eous indignation. About a hundredth part of the 
meat eaten in Germany is horseflesh. It is sold 
openly as such, and it is held to be wholesome and 
palatable, and is rigidly inspected by health offi- 
cials. Probably every continental country has 
people who eat horseflesh, on account of its cheap- 
ness — in Germany it sells at eight or ten cents a 
pound. Other British investigators pounced 
upon the black bread as unfit for human beings, 
comparing it detrimentally with the armor-coated 
loaves of rural England. 

One cannot know the conditions and ambitions 
of Germany and Great Britain — each fighting to 
the point of desperation for power and trade — 
without perceiving the enormous mutual advan- 
tage that would accrue could a treaty of amity and 
commerce between the two be brought about. 
Such an alliance, with immediate cessation of 
e.xpenditure over sea-power agreed upon, would 
have the greatest material value, besides prac- 
tically insuring the peace of Europe and Asia for 
years to come. With the Anglo- Japanese treaty 
soon to expire, the most brilliant achievement 
open to British statesmanship would surely be 
the securing of an alliance with the rival across 
the North Sea whose progress is astonishing the 
world — Germany. 



46 



EUROPE AT WAR 






a; CO 



0000000 
0000000 
0000000 



0000 
0000 

10 10 CO CO 



>o o o 

'rtH O O 



O 

o 
o 

o 
o 



o o 
o o 
o o 

o" o" 
o o 



o 
o 
o 

o' 
o 



o o 
o o 
o o 

o" o' 
CO o 



UO (M O CO (M CO 



0000 
o o o o 
o o o o_^ 

o"" o~ '^'" '^ 
O o <^^ "^ 



TjH 



Q 



o 

o 

Id O 

a. 8 

S, CO 



000 

000 
000 

d~ o" o" 
000 
o_^ 10 10^ 

t- CO 



0000 
0000 
0000 

o" 0"^ 0"^ o" 
0000 
CO 10 o o 






<X> CO 

10 



00000 
00000 
00000 

o'" o" o~ o^ o' 
00000 

CO O O >^ iC 



00000 
00000 
00000 

o~ o^ o" o" o' 
00000 

O CD t-- -*l 10 



UO-— iTtHt>'TiiOC0(M(M>O 
CO (M 



o 

l-H 

< 
z 



o 

X 



<< 

[-1 HH 



> 

en 



1/3 



• ■< 

I— t 
Oii ta^ P^ 



o 
o 

til 
H 

o 



H 

0^ 



< 



2^ 



< 
o 



< 



C/3 



o 
o 

o 

o" 

o 
o 



o 
o 
o 

o" 

o 



a 

C3 



o 
u 
a. 



o 
o 
o 

o" 
o 
o 

CO 



< 



o 
o 
o 

o" 
o 
o 

0*^ 



^ r^ • • • 

55 • • • 

d es: S t^ J h C ^ (2^ ^ 

2 ^ 0^ o u) s ^ t^ 9 ^ 
E h o oi cQ ;z; c/3 Q Iz; en 

1. ^, ' 



•M 





d 


U> 


■*-> 





Xi 


Ci 


•iM 








«4H 


1 

rt 


-0 


C3 


Wi 


"0J3 


TS 


d 









^M 


a> 






^ 


VM 



D 


■M 


Lj 


<U J3 


r« 


z 




^ 



c« 



ARMIES AND NAVIES OF EUROPE 

THE ARMIES OF EUROPE 

BY FREDERIC LOUIS HUIDEKOPER 

[Mr. Huidekoper, who has followed the principal European armies, is a writer of acknowledged authority on the cam- 
paigns of Frederick the Great, Napoleon, and Von Moltke, as well as on nulitary subjects of the day. This article was 
written a day or two after the actual outbreak of the war. In view of the events which have actually happened, the 
forecast of Germany's probable course of action, as given in the latter part of the article, is of special interest. — The 
Editors.] 



THE war in which all Europe is embarked 
will undoubtedly be the most gigantic 
struggle in the history of the world — so 
gigantic that even the Napoleonic wars will seem 
like dwarfs in comparison. 

To understand the present situation in Europe 
one must look at the arms and aims of each coun- 
try in turn. 

Ever since the reign of Ivan the Great (1462- 
1505), Russia has pursued one policy with extra- 
ordinary consistency, her effort being to improve 
herself by close contact with more civilized nations 
and to obtain access to the sea, especially in warm 
waters. The wars which she has waged against 
Poland, Sweden, the Turks of the Khanate of the 
Crimea, Prussia, Napoleon, the Turks in 1877- 
187S, and Japan, her stealthy advance in Central 
Asia and her intrigues in the Far East, in Persia 
and the Balkans, are all part and parcel of this 
policy. She has constituted herself the protec- 
tress of the Slavonic people in the Balkans in re- 
turn for which they may help her to secure Con- 
stantinople, the plum upon which she has looked 
with longing eyes for centuries. 

It is an open secret that Russian expansion 
deliberately plans access to the North Sea over 
Scandinavia's prostrate nationalism, while at the 
same time it is reaching for a United Slavic Balkan 
peninsula, bordering south and eastward on the 
Adriatic, the Marmora, and the Black Sea, with 
complete control of their strategic sea-gates, the 
Bosphorus and the Dardanelles. Germany, geo- 
graphically inside of Russia's enveloping ambitions 
is even more resolved upon an expanding empire, 
which shall extend eventually from Dutch and 
Belgian ports on the North Sea, clear through 
what is now Turkey, along the line of the Bagdad 
railroad to the Persian Gulf. 

Moreover, there is the possibility that if the 



Austrian Empire breaks up on the death of its 
present ruler — as has long been expected — the 
Kaiser or his descendants may become possessed 
of that territory and the important port of Trieste 
on the Adriatic. At the present moment, Russia's 
interests in that part of the continent clash with 
Austria's. Austria is keenly alive to its need to 
control the Adriatic, hence her occupation of 
Bosnia and Herzegovina in 1908, her resolution 
not to permit the Servians to have the port of 
Scutari, and her recent creation of the Kingdom of 
Albania. Her recent stand with respect to Servia 
is based upon her determination to permit no in- 
terference with her rights in that part of Europe. 

Back of these Austrian ambitions is the Pan- 
Germanic idea — the German slogan of the fa- 
mous March to the East — which is diametrically 
opposed, as already indicated, to a Russianized 
Balkans, or powerful Slav-Balkan state. 

These facts afford a glimpse into the intrigues 
of these nations and the struggle between Russia, 
on the one hand, and Germany and Austria on 
the other, to obtain the upper hand in the Balkans 
politically, commercially, and by the effort of each 
one to introduce its system of military training — 
all which were discussed at such length in Ameri- 
can newspapers during the late war, but without 
any attempt to throw light on the fvmdamental 
reasons from which they sprang. 

The map of Europe shows Great Britain separ- 
ated from the continent by a narrow strip of trou- 
bled water which has played a role in history only 
equalled by the Mediterranean. Her security is 
dependent mainly upon the ability of her fleets 
to prevent invasion. Her land forces are a secon- 
dary consideration. Her task is to defend the 
British Isles; to protect the carrying trade of the 
world which is in her hands; to keep open commu- 
nication with her colonial possessions scattered all 



47 



48 



EUROPE AT WAR 



over the globe; and to prevent her food supply 
from abroad from being cut off lest she starve to 
death. 

The main motive in France is revenge for 1870- 
7 1 and the reconquest of the lost provinces of Al- 
sace and Lorraine. 

European armament and European armies are 
at the same time the result of these conflicting am- 
bitions, just briefly indicated, and the means by 
which each nation hopes to satisfy its own terri- 
torial hunger at the expense of the other nations. 

For the benefit of the uninitiated in military 
matters, it may be said that almost every great 
nation has a regular army, and one, two, or three 
reserves. In time of peace the regular armies are 
kept on a reduced, or "peace footing." When 
war is imminent, they are enlarged to their "war 
footing" by augmenting them to full strength, 
either by additional men drawn from the reserves 
or by recruiting, and by organizing, equipping, 
and supplying them for active operations in the 
field. This is known as mobilization. Army 
affairs are administered by a council presided over 
by the Minister of War, which includes certain 
high military officers charged with duties necess- 
ary to the proper management of land forces. 
One of these is the Chief of the General Staff who 
is nearly always the commander-in-chief in time 
of war. The General Staff prepares all plans of 
war, sees to the proper coordination of the various 
branches of the service, and superintends the exe- 
cution of the plans determined upon. There are 
two kinds of troops: mobile, and fixed, i. e., sta- 
tioned in fortifications. The mobile troops are 
of two sorts: those of the line, i. e., the fightingmen 
which include the infantry, cavalry, and artillery; 
and those of the staff. Broadly speaking, the 
infantry is organized as follows: 

THE ORGANIZATION OF AN ARMY 
INFANTRY 

A squad is 8 men under ihe command of a corporal. 

A section is 16 men under tlie command of a sergeant. 

A platoon is from 50 to 75 men under a lieutenant. 

A company is 3 platoons, 200 to 250 men, under a cap- 
tain. 

A battalion is 4 or more companies under a major. 

A regiment is 3 or more battalions under a colonel, or a 
lieutenant-colonel. 

A brigade is 2 or 3 regiments under a brigadier-general. 

A division is 2 or more brigades under a major-general. 

.\n army corps is 2 or more brigades, supplemented by 
cavalry, artillery, engineers, etc., under a major-general or 
lieutenant-general. 



C.\ .'ALRY 

A section is S men under a corporal. 

A platoon is 36 to 50 men under a lieutenant, or junior 
captain. 

A troop is 3 to 4 platoons, 125 to 150 men, under a cap- 
tain. 

A squadron is 3 troops under a senior captain, or a major. 

A regiment is 4 to 6 squadrons under a colonel. 

.\ brigade is 3 regiments under a brigadier-general. 

A division is 2 or 3 brigades under a major-general. 

ARTILLERY 

A battery is 130 to 180 men, with 4 to 6 guns (8 in the 
Russian army) under a captain. 

A group or battalion is 3 or 4 batteries under a major. 
A regiment is 3 or 4 groups (battalions) under a colonel. 

When regiments are combined into brigades, 
brigades into divisions, and divisions into army 
corps, cavalry, artillery, and certain other auxil- 
iary troops, such as engineers, signal corps, aero- 
plane coqjs, etc., are joined with them in such 
proportions as has been found necessary. Every 
unit, from the company up, has its own supply 
and ammunition wagons, field hospitals, etc. 

In Europe almost every man has done com- 
pulsory ser\ice with the colors, varying from one 
to four years, and aside from the usual drills and 
instruction, has received training in manoeuvres, 
great or small, where the endeavor is made to re- 
produce the exact conditions which will occur in 
war. At times, however, even the "grands ma- 
noeuvres" degenerate into what smacks strongly 
of opera bouffe, despite every effort to the con- 
trary. The writer vividly recollects a charge of 
five regiments of French cavalry across nearly 800 
yards of absolutely open country against a battery, 
a battalion of infantry, and a regiment of dis- 
mounted dragoons in September last, and the un- 
concealed disgust of one old soldier who had fought 
in the battles around Metz in 1S70 at what he 
characterized as "crass idiocy." Even more 
spectacular was the charge of eighty squadrons of 
Bavarian cavalry, numbering more than 9,000 
men, across about 1,000 yards of open ground 
against a strong position held by a brigade of Sax- 
on infantry and several batteries, led by the 
German Emperor in person some years ago. The 
umpires decided that it was successful, whereat 
the military attaches smiled and remarked, as did 
Marshal MacMahon of the charge of the Light 
Brigade at Balaclava, "C'est magnifique, mats ce 
n'est pas la guerret" (It is magnificent, but it is 
not war I) Upon another occasion the Kaiser in- 



THE ARMIES 



49 



dulged in a similarly preposterous charge, Init 
upon galloping up to the umpires and inquiring, 
"How's that?" was greeted with the firm but di- 
plomatic answer, "All dead but one, Your Majes- 
ty." It must not be supposed that such license 
is always the case, for the training is often severe, 
and in the various schools of musketry the utmost 
attention is paid to good marksmanship — no 
nation being more thorough in all that relates to 
military matters than Germany. 

To understand the efficiency of European sol- 
diers and the never-ceasing preparation for war, 
let us exaniinc the systems of the leading conti- 
nental powers, beginning with the one which has 
the greatest reputation. 

GERMANY 

The German army on a peace footing consists 
of 31,459 officers and 768,540 men, military ser- 
vice being compulsory and universal with certain 
exemptions. Liability to service (Wehrpfiicht) 
begins at the age of 17 and ends at 45; actual ser- 
vice (Heerpflicht) comraences at 20. With the 
active army the term of service is seven years, 
two in the ranks and five in the reserve for the 
infantry, five in the ranks and four in the reserve 
for the cavalry and horse artillery. The soldier 
is permanently attached to some coqjs, and during 
his reserve service is twice summoned for training 
with it for a period limited by law to eight weeks, 
but in actual practice rarely six weeks and more 
usually a month. From the active reserve the 
soldier passes into the Landwehr or second line 
army, composed of two "bans," the first of 5 
years for the infantry and 3 for the cavalry and 
horse artillery; the second "ban" of 6 to 7 years, 
or 8 and 9, for the cavalry and horse artillery. 
During the first ban there are two periods of train- 
ing of 8 to 14 days each, in the second none, while 
the Landwehr cavalry is exempted altogether. 
The final reserve is the Landsturm — aforcepurely 
for home defence — in which the men remain 
until they have reached the age of 45; in other 
words, about 6 years. The Landsturm is com- 
posed of two "bans," the first comprising all men 
between 17 and 39 who for any reason have re- 
ceived no military training; the second includes 
all men, trained or untrained, between the ages 
of 39 and 45. The German army admits as vol- 
unteers for one year only well-educated young 
men who pay their own expenses and who serve 



to supply all the Reserve and Landwehr officers. 
There are also a considerable number of reserve 
troops intermediate between the active army and 
the Landwehr, and a supplementary (Ersatz) 
reserve of young men of 20 who are fit for service 
but in excess of the required number of annual 
recruits. They are liable for three periods of 
training, one of 10 weeks, one of 6 and one of 4, 
stress being laid on non-combatant duties, al- 
though they are also available for depot duty. 
The object of these various reserves is to keep the 
active regiments up to full strength and to replace 
the enormous wastage in men that invariably 
occurs in war. 

In the organization of the German army six 
battalions form an infantry regiment, two regi- 
ments a brigade, two brigades a division, and 
two divisions an army corps. There are 10 divi- 
sions composed of 3 brigades each, and in the 
event of war it is probable that the other divisions 
will be similarly augmented. Adding the neces- 
sary au.'dliary trooj)s, viz: an artUlery brigade of 
12 batteries composed of 6 guns each — or 4 in 
the case of the horse batteries — a regiment of 
cavalry of 4 squadrons, an engineer battalion, 
sanitary troops, etc., a German 3-brigade division 
at war strength would number about 2 1 ,000, and 
an army coqjs — to which are further attached 

4 batteries of howitzers and a battalion of rifles — 
about 43,000 combatants. The cavalry division 
is composed of 3 brigades of 2 regiments each and 
2 or 3 batteries of horse artillery, a total of 24 
squadrons and 8 to 12 guns. Twenty-five corps 
constitute the German army, whose war strength 
is (i) active army, 1,700,000; (2) Landwehr, 
1,300,000; and (3) Landsturm, 1,000,000, a grand 
total of 4,000,000 men. 

The infantry is armed with the Mauser maga- 
zine rifle, 1898 model, with a calibre of .311 inches 
and fires a "spit ball," i. e., one pointed like a 
pencil. The Mauser has a velocity of 2,700 foot 
seconds, a point-blank range of about 300 yards, 
and has adjustable sights for ranges up to 2,000 
yards. The cavalry is armed with a Mauser 
magazine carbine, and all carry lances. The ar- 
tillery, both field and horse, use a Krupp piece of 
1906 model, firing a 15 lb. shell. The field howit- 
zer is a 30-pounder, the heavy howitzer a 94- 
pounder. The Army Law of 1913 provided for 

5 aeroplane battalions numbering 17 companies 
with about 400 aeroplanes, and that year there 



5° 



EUROPE AT WAR 



were 24 dirigible balloons in the military estab- 
lishment. 

The German General Staff has the reputation 
of being the most thorough body of its kind in the 
world. The writer has been told upon excellent 
authority that Field Marshal von Moltke used to 
declare that with the declaration of war in 1870 
came his rest. The story is characteristic of the 
preparedness of the German General Staff, but 
if the plans to which the Germans are so wedded 
are upset the result may be different from their 
calculations. As indicative of the rvde-of-thumb 
from which no digression is permitted, every ob- 
server of German manceuvres has been struck bj' 
the obligation of troops to take the exact position 
assigned to them quite regardless of whether cir- 
cumstances have altered conditions and whether 
the spot is surrounded by enemies. In war such 
blind adherence to orders might entail annihila- 
tion. Moreover, the training instils into the men 
a dependence upon others, especially the officers 
and non-commissioned officers, which tends to 
rob them of all initiative; and the most casual 
observer cannot fail to remark upon the difficulty 
of the leaders to make their men take and keep 
open order in skirmishes and attacks, quite in 
contrast to the French, English, and Americans. 
The loss of Hfe must necessarUy be out of all pro- 
portion to the results achieved, as was the case 
when the Prussian Guard attacked the village of 
St. Privat on August 18, 1870, and suffered a loss 
of 30 per cent, in twenty minutes. 

The German artillery is distinctly inferior to 
the French as a weapon, and the Mauser rifle has 
not such a flat trajectory (i. e. the bullet does not 
carry so far in a straight line) as the French small- 
arm at distances above 900 yards. The adminis- 
tration of an army that includes the commissariat, 
the quartermaster's department, the medical 
corps, etc., which supply the troops with food and 
all necessary stores, is only sUghtly inferior to the 
French; but its officials, whose functions are semi- 
mihtary and semi-civil, have been subjected for 
years to the most overweening arrogance on the 
part of the officers of the line, and it would not be 
surprising to see revenge play its role, especially 
if the supply system breaks down under defeat. 

Germany's railways are admirably situated for 
military operations in every part of the Empire. 
There is no lack of arms or ammunition so far as 
is known, and in the tower at Spandau, near Berlin 



an enormous amount of gold has been stored for 
years as a war chest. German powder is of ex- 
cellent quaUty and fully abundant. Supplies are 
ample for a campaign of months, but if Germany 
is cut off from the sea difficulty will be experienced 
in feeding her enormous armies. Her fortifica- 
tions are of the latest and most approved type, 
heavily armed and provisioned for months, and, 
unlike France, she has wisely put her mortars in 
the first Ime, the howitzers, the short range guns, 
in second line, and the high power guns in the rear. 
Each fortification is provided with a wireless sys- 
tem for communication with other fortifications, 
thus rendering it possible for garrisons to unite 
either to harass the enemy temporarily or for pro- 
longed operations — a performance heretofore so 
hazardous that it has been rarely attempted in the 
presence of the enemy. 

FRANCE 

The last few years have witnessed an almost 
incredible resurrection in the military spirit of 
the French. Less than two years ago, when 
Germany increased her standing army, France 
instantly retaliated by lengthening the term of ac- 
tive service from two to three years without creat- 
ing so much as a ripple in her internal affairs. She 
is determined to recover her lost provinces of 
Alsace and Lorraine, and, if the opinion of mihtarj' 
critics is not woefully at fault, she may be coimted 
upon to put up a desperate fight against her Ger- 
man adversary. 

The "National Army" of France is composed 
of the "Metropolitan Army" and the Colonial 
Army, the former numbering 753,403 and the 
latter about 116,000 — 46,000 being in Morocco 
and 39,000 in Algeria — a total of 869,403, exclu- 
sive of 25,000 in the Gendarmerie or military 
police. Military service is compulsory and uni- 
versal from the ages of 20 to 48, the only exemp- 
tions being for physical disability. After 3 years 
in the active army, the soldier passes to the reserve 
for 1 1 years, followed by 7 years in the Territorial 
Army and 7 in the Territorial Reserve. In the ac- 
tive reserve the conscript undergoes two periods of 
training and manoeuvres lasting for 4 weeks each; 
Ln the Territorial Army one period of 2 weeks; 
in the Territorial Reserve, no fixed period. Unlike 
the Germans, the French have no one-year volun- 
teers but every encouragement is given for vol- 
untary enlistment for 3, 4, or 5 years, particularly 



THE ARMIES 



SI 



in the Colonial Army. The length of the reserve 
service produces more than 2,000 reservists per 
battalion, so that in case of mobilization the 
active units can easily be maintained at full 
war strength and each battaUon and regiment 
forms an additional reserve unit with men left 
over for the depot. As a necessary precaution, 
the troops stationed along the German frontier 
are kept at a considerably higher strength than 
the others. 

In the organization of the French army, two 
infantry regiments — composed of 6 or some- 
times 7 or 8 battalions — form a brigade, 2 bri- 
gades a division, and 2 divisions an army corps. 
To every division is attached a field artillery regi- 
ment of 9 batteries of 4 guns each. The corps 
artillery includes 9 field and 3 howitzer batteries, 
to which 6 reinforcing batteries are added upon 
mobilization, so that each corps on a war footing 
has 144 guns. Furthermore an army corps in the 
field has attached to it a cavalry brigade of 2 regi- 
ments, I chasseur (cavalry) battalion, engineer 
companies, sanitary and service troops, etc. The 
cavalry divisions are composed of 3 brigades of 
2 regiments each — together with 3 batteries of 
horse artillery. When mobilized the strength of an 
army corps is approximately 33,000 combatants; 
a cavalry division 4,700. There is also an aero- 
nautical corps with 334 aeroplanes and 14 dirigi- 
bles. 

The French army is localized and territorialized. 
Of the 21 army corps regions, all except Algeria 
(the 19th) furnishes a complete army corps. The 
8 infantry regiments of an army corps are re- 
cruited from their respective regimental districts, 
but the additional regiment is obtained from the 
region at large. Like the chasseur battalions, 
these additional regiments are usually stationed 
near the eastern frontier, so that the 6th Army 
Corps at Chalons and the 7th at Besanfon are 
augmented to 3 divisions each. 

The "Reserve Army has two divisions in each 
region, corresponding to those in the active army. 
Upon mobilization the 36 reserve divisions con- 
tain virtually the same organization and strength 
as the troops of the first line. The reserves of the 
regional regiments, engineers and foot artillery 
can be utilized for garrisoning the various for- 
tresses to which allusion will be made later. The 
Territorial Army likewise consists of 36 divisions 
and garrison troops. Upon mobilization the re- 



maining men of the Reserve and Territorial armies 
are summoned to the depots and are available to 
maintain the field army at war strength. The 
Customs Corps, the Chasseurs Forestiers, the 
Gendarmerie (25,000) and the Garde Republi- 
caine (2,992) have also had military training and 
can be utilized in time of war. 

The French field army is composed of 20 army 
corps, the brigade of 14 battalions stationed at 
Lyons, and 10 divisions of cavalry. Raised to 
their full war strength, the active army numbers 
1,009,000, the reserves and depots, 1,600,000, the 
Territorial army 818,000, and the Territorial re- 
serve 451,000, a grand total of 3,878,000. As a 
matter of fact, France possesses about 5,000,000 
trained men, r, 000,000 more than Germany — a 
thing which not many people know. 

The infantry is armed with the Lebel maga- 
zine rifle of .315 inches calibre, the cavalry with 
the Lebel carbine, both excellent weapons. The 
field piece is a rapid-fire gun of 7.5 centimetres 
(2.95 inches) of the model of 1907, provided with 
a shield for protection. The howitzers are of 
12 or 15.5 centimetres (i cm.:=.3937 inch). 

For many years there existed much imcer- 
tainty as to who would command the French 
army in time of war owing to the fear of a dicta- 
tor like Louis Napoleon or like General Bou- 
langer attempted to be (February, 1889). In 
July, 191 1, when the Moroccan trouble was at its 
height and war seemed imminent, it was decided 
that the power of appointing the commander- 
in-chief should be taken away from the Conseil 
Superieur de la Guerre — which is charged with 
general military questions under the presidency 
of the Minister of War — and vested in the Con- 
seil des Generaux, which is composed of the 
officers commanding the field armies and which 
has now selected General JoSre for supreme com- 
mand. 

The French artillery is generally admitted to 
be in a class by itself and the Intendance (com- 
missariat, etc.) is excelled by none other. The 
infantry is most deceptive in appearance, but the 
ability of the French to march and attack has 
never been surpassed. On the other hand, its 
forte is not the defensive, and only last year the 
writer was struck by the need of firmer discipline 
and more instruction. The French are peculiar 
in this respect, but the instant the first shot is 
fired no soldier rallies quicker to his colors, or is 



EUROPE AT WAR 



more desperately in earnest than the Frenchman. 
The cavalr}' is first class and will give a good 
account of itself. Its work will be supplemented 
by the army aeroplane corps and a volunteer 
aeroplane corps, the latter of which can be counted 
upon to furnish about i,ooo aeroplanes, which 
will prove far more than a match for the German 
aircraft, and ought to keep the commanding 
generals fully informed of every movement of the 
enemy. The Minister of War recently stated 
that there was no provision for the defense of the 
fortifications against attacks from the air, and 
there is also some question as to the efficiency of 
the wireless apparatus installed in the fortresses. 
The French naval powder is notoriously uncer- 
tain and short-lived, but the same cannot be said 
of the army powder, and so far as is known 
abroad, there is no shortage in ammunition. The 
regimental ofiicers are excellent but the French 
success will be largely measured by the ability 
of the generals. If they are able to take and 
keep the ofi'ensive, the French will prove a de- 
cidedly tough nut for any army in the world 
to crack. 

RUSSIA 

The peace strength of the Russian army is 
1,284,000 men, its war strength 5,962,306. Mili- 
tary service is compulsory and universal, begin- 
ning at the age of 20 and terminating with the 
end of the 43d year. Service in the active army 
is for 3 years in the case of the infantry and artil- 
lery, for 4 years in the other arms. The soldier 
then passes into the reserve (Zapas) for 14 or 15 
years, during which he receives two trainings of 
6 weeks each. After 18 years in the active army 
and reserve, he is transferred to the Territorial 
army (Opolchenie) for 5 years. This embraces 
also the surplus of the annual contingent, thus 
forming a supplementary reserve, and, in the 
second "ban," all those exempted from service, 
those not up to standard, and the older classes of 
surplus men. There also exists a modified system 
of volunteers for one year who supply the bulk 
of officers required for the reserve upon mobili- 
zation. 

Owing to the enormous extent of the Russian 
empire, its army is divided into three forces, the 
army of European Russia, the army of the Cau- 
casus, and the Asiatic army. The Russian bat- 
taUon contains 1,000 men; 4 battalions constitute 
a regiment, 2 regiments a brigade and 2 brigades 



a division. The field batteries are composed of 
S guns, the horse batteries of 6. The ordinary 
army corpjs is made up of 2 divisions, a howitzer 
di\'ision and one battalion of sappers, and has a 
fighting strength of approximately 32,000 men. 
The rifle brigades form separate organizations of 
8 battalions with 3 batteries attached. The 
Cossacks, who hold their lands by military tenure, 
are hable to service for life, and provide their own 
equipment and horses. At 19 their training be- 
gins; at 21 they enter the active regiment of their 
district, at 25 the "second category" regiment, 
and at 29 the "third category " regiment, followed 
by 5 years in the reserve. After 25 years of age, 
their training is 3 weeks per annum. In Euro- 
pean Russia the field army consists of the Imperial 
Guard and Grenadier Corps, 27 line army corps 
and 20 cavalry divisions; in the Caucasus of 3 
army corps and 4 cavalry divisions. The Asiatic 
army is composed of Russians with a few Turko- 
man irregular horse (jigits), and is mainly sta- 
tioned in East Siberia. Since the Russian- 
Japanese war these forces have been increased 
and re-organized into a strong army which would 
mobilize as 5 Trans-Baikal corps and 2 to 4 Cos- 
sack cavalry divisions, numbering, together with 
auxiliary troops, more than 200,000 men. 

The system of recruitment is territorial, that is 
each army corps draws its recruits from a fixed 
district and is usually quartered in garrisons there. 
In European Russia the majority of the army is 
stationed west of the longitude of Moscow, so that 
mobilization is slower under ordinary circum- 
stances than in France or Germany because the re- 
cruits and reservists have long chstances to travel 
particularly as many are consigned to corps out- 
side Great Russia. The Czar cannot mobilize 
300,000 of his troops within any theatre of opera- 
tions under three weeks, although four times that 
number could be assembled one week later. The 
comparative dearth of railways is a great handicap 
in the matter of suppHes. 

The small-arm of the infantry is the "3-line" 
rifle of the 1901 model. It has a magazine hold- 
ing 5 cartridges, a calibre of .299 inches, a muzzle 
\elocity of 2,035 foot seconds, and is sighted to 
3,000 yards. The arm of the cavalry and Cos- 
sacks has a barrel 2| inches shorter but uses the 
same ammunition, and is provided with a bay- 
onet which no other mounted troops use. The 
field piece is a Krupp rapid-fire, shielded gun of 



THE ARMIES 



53 



the igo2 model with a muzzle velocity of 1,950 
foot seconds, the shell weighing 135 lbs. 

Ordinarily speaking, the standard of the Rus- 
sian army is distinctly below that of the French 
and German. Their small-arm is slightly better 
than our old Krag-Jorgensen, their field piece is 
inferior to the French and their movements slower 
except in the case of the Cossack cavalry which 
is no match for other European mounted troops. 
On the other hand, the Russian has always been 
a capital fighting man, and too much stress can- 
not be laid upon the value of actual experience 
in war. It is highly doubtful that the Russians 
will encounter any harder fighting than they did 
in Manchuria, and it must be remembered that a 
great many of the officers and men who fought 
against the Japanese will participate in the present 
war. The Russian army will therefore be a potent 
factor in any equation. 

AUSTRIA-HUNGARY 

Austria-Hungary's peace establishment is 
472,716, the war strength of her regular army 
1,360,000. Military servdce is universal and 
compulsory, beginning at the age of 19 — but 
more usually at 21 — and ending at 43. Service 
with the "Common" or active army lasts for 
2 years in the case of the infantry and 3 for the 
cavalry and horse artillery: in the Landwehr 
(first reserve) 10 for the infantry and 7 for the 
cavalry and horse artillery, followed by the Land- 
sturm (second reserve) until the soldier's 42nd 
birthday. Hungary possesses a separate and 
distinct Landwehr (Honved) and Landsturm 
(Nepfolkeles), which constitute the Hungarian 
national army. There is also an Ersatz (supple- 
mentary) reserve intended to maintain the units 
of the Common army at full strength. The 
Ersatz reservists receive 8 weeks' training in their 
first year and are subsequently liable for the same 
service as the other reservists of the army corps 
to which they belong. 

The Empire is divided into 16 army corps 
districts, each presumed to furnish a complete 
army corps of 2 divisions to the active army. 
Every infantry division is composed of 2 brigades 
of 8 battalions each, i artillery brigade of 10 
batteries of 6 guns, a regiment of cavalry, a 
jager (rifle) battalion, etc. The army corps also 
contains a regiment of field artillery or howitzers, 
a pioneer battalion, a pontoon company, etc., 



and numbers about 34,000 combatants. There 
are 6 permanent cavalry divisions, each consisting 
of 2 brigades (24 squadrons), 3 batteries of horse 
artillery and a machine-gun detachment num- 
bering about 4,000 men. It is estimated that 
Austria's land forces raised to their maximum 
war strength would be as follows: Common or 
active army, 1,360,000; Austrian Landwehr, 
240,000; Hungarian Landwehr, 220,000; Land- 
sturm, 2,000,000; Ersatz reserve, 500,000; grand 
total, 4,320,000. 

The infantry is armed with the Mannlicher 
magazine rifle, calibre .315, 1895 model; the 
cavalry with a carbine of the same make. The 
field gun, a Krupp, uses a shrapnel of 145 lbs. 
the field howitzer is a 10.5 cm. piece weighing 
1,000 lbs. and firing a 30 lb. shell. On a peace 
footing all batteries have 4 guns, on war footing 
6, except the mountain batteries which are pro- 
vided with 4 guns. 

The Hungarian cavalry is admirable; the rest 
of the army is undoubtedly a good force but 
scarcely comparable to the French or German 
armies. It has not fought single-handed since 
1866 when it was decisively defeated by the Prus- 
sians and their allies at Koniggratz. 

ITALY 

The Italian army on a peace footing numbers 
250,860 oflicers and men, exclusive of the troops 
in Africa. Ser\dce is compulsory and universal, 
beginning at the age of twenty. Two years in 
the permanent army are followed by 6 years in the 
reserve, 4 years in the mobile militia, and 7 years 
in the territorial militia. In the reserve they 
receive from 2 to 6 weeks' training which may be 
extended over several years; in the territorial 
militia, 30 days' training. Each division consists 
of 2 brigades composed of 2 regiments, each of 3 
battalions, together with a regiment of field artil- 
lery (5 batteries) and has a war strength of 14,156 
officers and men and 30 guns. Four regiments 
divided into 2 brigades and 2 horse batteries com- 
prise a cavalry division. Each army corps has 2 
divisions — save the IXth which has 3 — a regi- 
ment of field artillery (36 guns), 2 or 3 heavy 
batteries, a regiment of cavalry and one of Bersa- 
glieri (light infantry). Aside from the Carabinieri 
or military police and the usual auxiliary troops 
including the aeronautical corps with 7 companies, 
30 aeroplanes, and 9 airships, are the Alpini, fron- 



54 



EUROPE AT WAR 



tier troops organized for the defense of the moun- 
tain passes, consisting of 8 regiments (26 battal- 
ions) of Alpine infantry and 2 regiments of 36 
mountain batteries. The field army comprises 1 2 
army corps and 3 cavalry divisions, its war 
strength is about 2,600,000, divided as follows: 
active army 700,000, mobile militia 400,000, 
territorial militia, a large part of whom are only 
partially trained, 1,500,000. 

The ItaUan infantry is armed with the Mann- 
licher Carcano magazine rifle of 6.5 millimetres 
caUbre, but the territorial militia still uses the 
old VetterU rifle. The field artillery is now being 
rearmed with the De Port gun with a calibre of 
7.5 centimetres of the model of 191 2. 

The Italian army has recently been engaged 
in war in Africa, and has doubtless profited by 
its experience. 

It is a compact force and well trained. 

GREAT BRITAIN 

Apart from the Indian Army and the Local 
Forces in the various colonies, the miHtary estab- 
lishment of Great Britain consists of the Regular 
Army and the Territorial Army, both being re- 
cruited by voluntary' enlistment between the ages 
of 18 and 25. The enHstment is for 12 years, 
with permission under certain circumstances 
to prolong it to 21 years. Three to nine years is 
the period with the colors, and the remainder 
with the Army Reserve, most men electing to 
serve 7 years with the colors and 5 in the reserve. 
Upon mobilization the existing deficiencies are 
supplied from the Army Reserve, or to a lesser ex- 
tent, from the Special Reserve of troops not per- 
manently incorporated but who serve as depot 
troops, or in fortifications, their term of ser\'ice 
being for 6 years. The recruits are subjected to 5 
months' training and each year are called out for 
3 weeks, supplemented by 6 days' musketry prac- 
tice for the infantry. 

The Home Army consists of 9,740 officers and 
172,610 men, the Army Reserve of 147,000, the 
Special Reser\-e of 80,120, and the Territorial 
Army of 315,485, a total of 724,955. Raised to 
war strength these forces would number 29,330 
officers, 772,000 men and 2,072 guns, the batteries 
being of 6 guns, except the heavy batteries and 
those of the Territorial Army which have 4. The 
casual reader will probably be surprised at these 
figures, but he must remember that during the 



Boer War England put more than a million men 
in the field. The United Kingdom is divided into 
seven " commands " and the London district, all of 
which include from 2 to 3 territorial divisions and 
I to 4 territorial cavalry brigades in addition to 
detachments of varying size from the Regular 
Army. Two nearly full divisions are stationed at 
Aldershot and in Ireland, one complete division in 
the Southern and one in the Eastern " command." 
There are also 6 aeroplane squadrons, each with 
18 aeroplanes. 

The Lee-Enfield rifle, calibre .303, is the arm 
of the infantry and cavalry. In the Regular 
Army the field artillery has an i8-pounder Arm- 
strong gun, the horse artillery a 13-pounder, 
the field howitzers are 40-pounders, and the heav^^ 
batteries are armed with 60-pounders. 

The British army got a severe handling in the 
Boer War, and profited greatly thereby. The 
Territorial Army is a force of distmctly uncer- 
tain value at present, being very much akin to 
the American militia, and could scarcely be ex- 
pected to distinguish itself if pitted against the 
French or German regulars. 

The Belgian army has a peace footing of 3,542 
officers and 44,061 men, with a war strength var- 
iously estimated at from 300,000 to 350,000. 
The infantry is armed with the Mauser rifle, the 
artillery with a shielded Krupp quick-fire piece 
of 7.5-cm. calibre. 

In 1913 the Netherlands had in its Home Army 
1,543 officers and 21,412 men and 152 guns. On 
a war footing it could probably be raised to about 
270,000 men. The small arm is the Mannhcher 
rifle and carbine, the field gun is identical with 
that of Belgium. 

Ser\-ia has 10 divisions di\'ided into 4 army 
corps, with a peace footing of 160,000, and a war 
strength of more than 380,000. The rifle is the 
Mauser model of 1899, with a caHbre of 7 mm. of 
which there are not nearly enough to arm the re- 
serves; the field piece a quick-firing gun of the 
French Schneider-Canet system. 

Bulgaria has a peace estabHshment of about 
3,900 officers and 56,000 men, armed with the 
Mannhcher magazine rifle, cahbre .315, the Mann- 
hcher carbine, the Schneider quick-fire gun of 
7.5 cm., and a Ught Krupp of the same calibre for 
the mountain batteries. On a war footing she 
could muster 4 army corps and about 5 50,000 men. 



THE ARMIES 



SS 



Roumania's army on a peace footing is about 
5,460 ofiBcers and 98,000 men, on a war footing 5 
army corps and approximately 580,000 men. 
The infantry uses the MannHcher magazine riile, 
.256 calibre, the cavalry the Mannhcher carbine. 
The field and horse batteries are armed with the 
Krupp quick-fire 75 mm. gun of the model of 
1903. 

In 191 2 Greece had a peace establishment of 
1,952 officers and 23,268 men, but the recent war 
has caused her to augment them to 3 army corps 
and her war footing is not far from 250,000 men. 
The infantry is armed with the Mannlicher- 
Schonauer rifle of the 1903 model and the field 
artillery with Schneider-Canet quick-fire guns. 

Few people reahze how strongly the frontiers 
of the Powers of central Europe are fortified — 
in fact the whole continent bristles with fortifi- 
cations. Beginning at the point where France, 
Switzerland, and Germany meet, the eastern 
frontier of France is guarded by fortresses of the 
first class at Belfort, Epinal, Toul, and Verdun in 
the first line, reinforced by Besanfon, Dijon, 
Langres, Rheims, la Fere, and Maubeuge in the 
second line, with smaller fortifications (forts 
d 'arrets) close to the German frontier at Remire- 
ment, Luneville, Nancy, and other points. Along 
the Italian frontier are the strong places of Gre- 
noble, Brianfon, and Nice, with Lyons in the rear. 
All her naval harbors are fortified and the defense 
of Paris consists of 97 bastions, 17 old forts and 
38 new advanced forts, the whole forming en- 
trenched camps at Versailles and St. Denis. 

The German frontier facing France is guarded 
by the fortresses of Neu-Breisach, Strassburg, 
INIetz, and Diedenhofen, in the first line, with 
Rastatt, Bitsch, and Saarlouis in the second line, 
and Germersheim in the rear. Mainz (Mayence) 
is situated opposite Luxemburg, Coblentz, and 
Koln (Cologne) opposite Belgium, and Wesel 
opposite Holland. The northern coast is strongly 
fortified from Wilhelmshafen to Memmel, the 
latter forming the extreme end of the cordon of 
fortresses which guard Germany's eastern frontier, 
and which consist of Konigsberg and Allenstein 
in the first line, Danzig, Dirschau, Graudenz, 
Thorn, and the Vistula Passages in the second 
line. South of this point are Posen, Glogau, and 
Breslau facing Poland. Beginning at Neisse the 
defense against Austria consists of strong fortifi- 



cations at Glatz, Torgau, Ingolstadt, and Ulm, 
and the approaches to Berlin are guarded by Mag- 
deburg, Spandau, and Kiistrin. 

Russia is protected against attacks from the 
Germans by the fortresses of Libau on the Baltic, 
Kovna, Ossovets, and Ust-Dvinsk (formerly 
Diinamund) in the Vilna district, and in Poland 
by Novo-Georgievsk, Warsaw, and Ivangorod on 
the Vistula, and Brest-Litovsk on the Bug — ■ 
four strongholds known as the Polish Quadri- 
lateral. Guarduig St. Petersburg, or Petrograd, 
as we must now name the Czar's capital, are the 
weaker fortifications of Kronstadt and Viborg, with 
Sweaborg midway down the Gulf of Finland near 
Helsingfors. On the Black Sea are Sebastopol 
and Kertch in the Crimea and Otchokov near 
Odessa. 

Austria's fortifications consist of the strong 
places of Cracow and Premysl on the road to 
Lemberg in GaHcia, facing Poland; in Hungary 
she has Gyiila-Fehervar (Karlsburg) and Arad on 
the Maros River guarding the approach from the 
angle of Roumania, while on her frontier facing 
Servia are Alt-Orsova and Petervarad (Peter- 
wardcin) on the Danube, and Sarajevo in Bosnia, 
withTemesvar and Komorn blocking the approach 
to Vienna from the southeast. On the Adriatic 
are Cattaro on the edge of Montenegro, and the 
naval arsenals of Pola and Trieste. All the Alpine 
passes of the Tyrol are fortified, but neither 
Vienna nor Budapest has any defenses. 

Italy's fortifications, aside from those on her 
coasts, extend in a line from Venice, through 
Verona, Mantua, and Piacenza to Alessandria 
and Casale which face the French frontier. 

GENERAL MILITARY SITUATION 

"Strategy consists in getting there first with 
most men," accorcUng to the statement ascribed 
to General Forrest, a Southern partisan leader, 
and a better definition it would be hard to give. 
GermanyandAustriabeingin the centre of Europe 
have shorter distances to traverse to reach any 
given point on their frontiers than is the case with 
their adversaries who are separated by these two 
empires. They can also mobilize their forces 
more quickly than their opponents — with the 
exception of the French — and their combined 
armies are more homogeneous than are the allies. 
On the other hand they are inferior in numbers to 
their adversaries, Germany having 4,000,000, and 



56 



EUROPE AT WAR 



Austria 4,320,000, a total of 8,320,000, against 
3,878,000 French, 5,962,000 Russians, 500,000 
Servians, and 350,000 Belgians, a total of 
10,690,000. Napoleon declared that "the strength 
of an army, like the amount of movement in me- 
chanics, is estimated as the mass multiplied by 
the rapidity," and he demonstrated the proper 
method to pursue in situations almost identical 
with those of to-day. Falling with the utmost 
rapidity and all the forces he could muster upon 
one of his adversaries, he inflicted a crushing 
defeat. Leaving a "containing force" at that 
point, he then turned with all his strength against 
the other adversary, repeating his successive blows 
in one or both directions until his opponents were 
destroyed. So long as he kept them asunder their 
superior numbers availed them nothing, and his 
own success was assured; once they were permitted 
to combine, his defeat was certain. In such 
manoeuvres the forces must be kept closely united 
and moved with all possible rapidity, otherwise 
the advantage conferred by "interior lines" will 
be wholly lost. 

If the Germans and Austrians are to escape 
being crushed by the mere weight of numbers 
they must pursue a similar course. If they 
elect to attack the French and Belgians, stra- 
tegic wisdom would require their leaving on their 
eastern frontiers forces of suflScient strength to 
be able, in conjunction with their fortifications, 
to prevent the Russians and Serbs from penetrat- 
ing in their rear. If they prefer to attack to 
the east the operation must be reversed. In either 
case they ought to be able to outnumber their 
adversaries on the east or those on the west, but 
if they attack in both directions at the same time, 
they are sure to be defeated by superior forces. 

The indications are that a first stroke to the 
east would produce the greater results, since the 
Russians cannot mobilize under twenty-six days 
at least, and nearly a month must elapse before 
they are fully ready to begin a forward move- 
ment in any great force. It would therefore be 
possible, if the Germans and Austrians act quickly 
to inflict a crushing blow upon them before they 
are ready. This might open the road to Pet- 
rograd — which is no farther from Konigsberg 
than Berlin is from Paris — and so long as the 
German fleet commands the Baltic, the troops 
could be largely supplied from transports at several 
points en route. This operation while possible 



under certain conditions, would be extremely 
hazardous. On the other hand, in an advance to 
the west, the most advantageous lines of advance 
are from Coblenz up the Mosel and through Lux- 
emburg, or from Cologne through Belgium, issu- 
ing either through Sedan or through the valley of 
the Meuse into France, at a distance of about 140 
miles from Paris. The violation of Belgium's 
neutrality and the opposition of her forces is not 
to be compared to the advantage this conferred. 
Furthermore the French fortifications guarding 
these lines are not so strong as they ought to be, 
whereas those from Epernay south to Belfort will 
not be easy to break through if reinforced by the 
French armies. In this connection it may be 
observed that Germany's frontier from Basle to 
Luxemburg is 242 miles in length, Luxemburg 
adds III miles, and Belgium 70 miles. With sev- 
eral million men packed into this space, and rest- 
ing on a line of powerful modern fortifications, the 
difficulty of either side to break through will be 
apparent, especially if the troops resort to field 
entrenchments, as they undoubtedly will do. 
Under the circumstances, it is difficult to see how 
Germany could realize her boast that she would 
crush France and be in Paris in three weeks, parti- 
cularly since Victor Emmanuel has not given his 
adhesion and Italy cannot be utilized for a di- 
verting attack against southern France. To 
\-iolate the neutrality of Switzerland would stir 
up a veritable hornet's nest, for the Swiss have 
500,000 well trained men. 

On the eastern frontiers the fortifications — 
German, Austrian, and Russian — present anal- 
ogous difficulties but in a far lesser degree. Russia 
cannot issue from western Poland without expos- 
ing her right flank to a German attack from East 
Prussia, and her left to an attack from Galicia, 
or Bohemia. The roads into Germany north of 
Poland are strongly guarded by fortifications, so 
that it is probable that she will invade Galicia 
between Cracow and Lemberg, in the effort to 
crush the Austrians, or to separate them from the 
Germans. An advance from any of the Balkan 
states would be less hazardous but, on the other 
hand, less productive of results. 

Should Italy indefinitely join England, France, 
and Russia, her 12 army corps in conjunction 
with Servia's 4 corps could probably neutralize 
in a large measure Austria's 16 corps and pre- 
vent their rendering any material assistance to 



THE NAVIES 



57 



Germany either by holding the Russians in 

check or by joining in an attack against France. 

Broadly speaking such are the most probable 

operations to be attempted during the first stage 



of the war. When the terrific struggle has ter- 
minated, the map of Europe — perhaps of certain 
other portions of the globe — may be materially 
changed. 



THE NAVIES OF THE GREAT POWERS AT WAR 



THE present war is an exception to the 
general rule that dominion is won or lost 
by the preponderance of sea-power or its 
opposite. At the moment of this writing the 
navies of all the great Powers except Italy are 
involved in the struggle. On one side those of 
Great Britain, France, and Russia; on the other, 
Germany and Austria. The preponderance of 
force is thus very great against the Germanic 
Powers. 

Great Britain has political dominion over nearly 
35 per cent, of the habitable land of the globe and 
over 27 per cent, of its population, the total of 
which is estimated by one of the best authorities 
at 1,623,300,000. No such empire has ever before 
existed, and it is for the looking after of these 
tremendous and wide-scattered interests that the 
great navy of Britain exists. For all her high- 
ways of communication are across the seas. For 
this duty she has, now completed, 60 modern 
battleships, g battle-cruisers, 34 armored cruisers, 
17 heavy protected cruisers, 70 Light cruisers, 
232 destroyers now ready and 16 building, 59 
torpedo boats (and 50 old ones), and 75 sub- 
marines, besides 52 sea-going au.xiliaries of the 
fleet, such as mother ships for destroyers, mine- 
layers, distilhng ships, oil ships, repair and hos- 
pital ships. 

The following are the details of this great fleet, 
the types in each class being separated into 
groups: 

The first group, completed between 1895 and 
189S, includes the following battleships: Magni- 
ficent, Majestic, Prince George, Victorious, Jupiler, 
Caesar, Mars, Hannibal, and Illustrious. 

They are all of 14,900 tons displacement, 
12,000 horse-power, and 2,000 tons coal capacity. 
They have a speed of 17.5 knots, 9 inches of 
armor belt, and from 10 to 14 inches protection 
for the big guns. The armament consists of 
4 12-inch, 12 6-inch rapid fire, 16 3-inch rapid 
fire, 12 3-pounder rapid fire, 2 light rapid fire, and 
2 machine guns. They have one torpedo tube 
above water and two under water. 



Thenext class includes six battleships completed 
between igoo and 1902: Canopus, Ocean, Goliath, 
Glory, Vengeance, and Albion. 

They are of 12,950 tons displacement, 13,500 
horse-power, and 2,300 tons coal capacity. They 
have a speed of 18.25 knots, 6 inches of armor 
belt, and from 8 to 12 inches protection for the 
big guns. The armament consists of 4 12-inch 
rapid fire, 12 6-inch rapid fire, 10 3-inch rapid 
fire, 2 light rapid fire, and 2 machine guns. They 
have 4 torpedo tubes. 

Then come eight ships, finished between igoi 
and 1904: Formidable, Irresistible, London, Bul- 
wark, Venerable, Implacable, Queen, and Prince of 
Wales. 

They are of 15,000 tons displacement, 15,000 
horse-power, and 2,000 tons coal capacity. They 
have a speed of 18 knots, 6 to 9 inches of armor 
belt, and from 8 to 12 inches protection for the 
big guns. The armament consists of 4 12-inch, 
12 6-inch rapid fire, 16 3-inch rapid fire, 2 light 
rapid fire, and 2 machine guns. They have 4 
torpedo tubes. 

During 1903 and 1904 also were finished the 
Albemarle, Duncan, E.xmoiUh, Russell, and Corn- 
•wallis. 

They are 14,000 tons displacement, 18,000 
horse-power, and 2,100 tons coal capacity. They 
have a speed of 18 knots, 6 to g inches of armor 
belt, and from 6 to 11 inches protection for the 
big guns. The armament consists of 4 12-inch, 
12 6-inch rapid fire, 12 3-inch rapid fire, and 2 
machine guns. They have 4 torpedo tubes. 

In 1904 the smaller Triumph and Swiftsure 
were launched. 

They are 11,800 tons displacement, 12,500 
horse-power, and 2,000 tons coal capacity. They 
have a speed of 19 knots, 3 to 7 inches of armor 
belt, and from 6 to 10 inches protection for the 
big guns. The armament consists of 4 lo-inch, 
14 7.5-inch rapid fire, 14 14-pounder rapid fire, 
4 6-pounder rapid fire, 2 light rapid fire, and 4 
machine guns. They have 2 torpedo tubes. 

Between 1904 and 1906 eight battleships 



58 



EUROPE AT WAR 



were launched: Dominion, Kin^ Edward VII, 
Commonwealth, Zealandia, Hindustan, Britannia, 
Africa, and Hibernia. 

They are of 16,350 tons displacement, 18,000 
horse-power, and 2,150 tons coal capacity. They 
have a speed of 18.5 knots, 6 to 9 inches of armor 
belt, and from 8 to 12 inches protection for the 
big guns. The armament consists of 4 12-inch, 
4 9.2-inch, 10 6-inch rapid fire, 14 3-inch rapid 
fire, 14 3-pounder rapid fire, and 2 machine guns. 
They have 4 torpedo tubes. 

In 1907 came the famous Dreadnought, with 
its 17,900 tons displacement, 23,000 horse-power 
(turbine), 21 knots speed, and 2,700 tons coal 
capacity. Her armor belt is 11 inches and the 
big gun protection from 8 to 11 inches. She 
has 10 12-inch guns, 24 3-inch rapid fire. 5 ma- 
chine guns, and three torpedo tubes. 

In 1908 the Agamemnon was launched, and in 
1909 the Lord Nelson. 

They are of 16,000 tons displacement, 16,750 
horse-power, and 2,500 tons coal capacity. They 
have a speed of 18 knots, 4 to 12 inches of armor 
belt, and from 8 to 12 inches protection for the 
big guns. The armament consists of 4 12-inch 
10 9.2-inch, 24 3-inch rapid fire, and 5 machine 
guns. They have 5 torpedo tubes. 

In 1909 England launched three battleships, 
Bellerophon, Temreaire, and Superb. 

They are of 18,600 tons displacement, 23,000 
horse-power (turbine), and 2,700 tons coal ca- 
pacity. They have a speed of 21 knots, 11 mches 
armor belt, and from 8 to 1 1 inches protection for 
the big guns. The armament consists of 10 
12-inch, 16 4-inch rapid fire and 5 machine guns. 
They have 3 torpedo tubes. 

In 1910 three more ships followed: St. Vincent, 
Collingwood, and Vanguard. 

They are 19,250 tons displacement, 24,500 
horse-power (turbine), and 2,700 tons coal capa- 
city. They have a speed of 21 knots, 9.75 inches 
of armor belt, and from 8 to 1 1 inches protection 
for the big guns. The armament consists of 
10 12-inch, 20 4-inch rapid fire, and 6 machine 
guns. They have 3 torpedo tubes. 

In 1911 there were four ships launched, three 
of them, the Neptune, Colossus, and Hercules of 
one type. 

They are 20,000 tons displacement, 25,000 
horse-power (turbine), and 2,700 tons coal 
capacity. They have a speed of 21 knots, 11 



inches of armor belt, and from 8 to 12 inches pro 
tection for the big guns. The armament con- 
sists of 10 12-inch, 16 4-inch rapid fire, and 6 
machine guns. They have 3 torpedo tubes. 

The Orion, launched in 191 1, and the Con- 
queror, Thunderer, and Monarch, of 1912, formed 
the next type. 

They are of 22,500 tons displacement and 
27,000 horse-power (turbine). They have a 
speed of 21 knots, 12 inches of armor belt, and 
from 8 to 12 inches protection for the big giuis. 
The armament consists of 10 13.5-inch, 16 4-inch 
rapid fire, and 6 machine gims. They have 3 
torpedo tubes. 

The King George F, of 191 2, and the Centurion, 
Ajax and Audacious, of 1913, form the ne.\t class. 

They are of 23,000 tons displacement, 31,000 
horse-power (turbine), and 3,700 tons coal capa- 
city. They have a speed of 21.5 knots, 12 mches 
of armor belt, and from 8 to 12 inches protection 
for the big guns. The armament consists of 
10 13.5-inch, 16 4-mch rapid fire, and 6 smaller 
guns. The}' have 3 torpedo tubes. 

This year there are two types. In the first 
are the Iron Duke, Marlborough, Emperor oj 
India, and Benbow. 

They are of 25,000 tons displacement, 39,000 
horse-power (turbine), and 4,000 tons coal ca- 
pacity. They have a speed of 2 2 . 5 knots, 1 2 inches 
of armor belt, and 8 to 12 inches protection for the 
big guns. The armament consists of 10 13.5-inch, 
12 6-inch rapid fire, and 6 smaller guns. They 
have 5 torpedo tubes. 

The second type for this year includes the 
Queen Elizabeth and Warspite. 

They are of 27,500 tons displacement, 58,000 
horse-power (turbine), and 4,000 tons oil capacity. 
They have a speed of 25 knots, 13.5 inches of 
armor belt, and from 8 to 13.5 inches protection 
for the big guns. The armament consists of 8 
15-inch, 16 6-inch rapid fire, and 12 3-inch rapid 
fire guns. They have 5 torpedo tubes. 

The four last, though possibly not yet ready 
for service, are due for completion this year and 
\vill of course under the circumstances of war 
be hastened to completion. There are also build- 
ing the Valiant, Barham, and Malaya of the same 
type as the Queen Elizabeth, and the Royal Sov- 
ereign, Royal Oak, Resolution, Ramillies, and 
Renown, of 29,000 tons, 44,000 horsepower tur- 
bines, and of the same armament as the Queen 




ARIEE DE TERRE et ARMEE de MER 




ORDIIE 

m mm\mm mtum 



THE FRENCH ORDER OF MOBILIZATION 



The mobilization o f 
France's armies was made 
in a much shorter time 
than the rest of Europe 
expected, and this celerity, 
with the additional time 
gained by Belgium's 
spirited resistance to the 
German invasion, resulted 
in the assembling of prac- 



tically all the Republic's 
forces on her frontier be- 
fore the Germans had 
actually reached French 
territory. The French 
heavy artillery is generally 
believed to be the best in 
the world. The infantry 
shown in these pictures has 
the new uniform. 





photograph by International News Service, New York 

FRENCH TROOPS AT LYONS, ABOUT TO ENTRAIN FOR THE GERMAN BORDER 



EUROPE AT WAR 




Bain News Service 



FRENCH SOLDIERS RESTING AFTER A MARCH 



THE ARMIES OF EUROPE 



6i 














lit t-v the Internaticiii.tl N' 



FRENCH INFAXTRV I.\ ACTION 



62 



EUROPE AT WAR 




AN ENGLISH FIELD BAGGAGl:: TRAIN 




^iMkMiitm^ 




ni ^^^^^Ib ^^^^H^HHnifl^^^l^^^HBnSMfltB . ^M^Mg^^9U^^^fj]^ Wji3^^lK>'^i^lHBWi9Hi 


l»^ 


^LLK^^MMisKf^P^ffrivTE!^ ' J^«fefc.^Kj|j||&^iiMfc£«yic 


s^^S^ffifll 


^^^flK^y^H|j^^E|lbi||wur '^ rf' T \Ww^U^^^^BU^KB^F 


'fllH 


^^^■^^^^■^Jj^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^B*- '^^^H^^H^^^^HRe?^^'^^? 


i^H 


^^^^^^W 


ti^n^H 




,1 



BRITISH CAVALRY 




liRIIiMl llhAA) AKlll.LERY 



THE ARMIES OF EUROPE 



63 




ENGLISH INFANTRY 

THE BRITISH REGULAR ARMV CAN BE COUNTED ON, BUT THE EFFICIENCY OF THE TERRITORIALS, WHICH CORRESPOND TO 

AMERICAN MILITIA, IS PROBLEMATICAL. 



64 



EUROPE AT WAR 




GERMAN INFANTRY IN THE FIELD 

EVERY DETAIL OF EQUIPMENT AND OF CARRIAGE, FROM THE MARTIAL LOOKIXG HELMET TO THE ARTIFICIAL "GOOSE STEP " 
GAIT USED ON PAR-^UJE, EMPHASIZES THE STUDIED UNIFORMITY AND PAINSTAKING PRECISION OF GERMAN MILITARY SCLENCE 



THE ARMIES OF EUROPE 



% 




B^^HHfi^^tar' ' ■ 4# JH 




"iS^M^^A, 






!lt«r'-' ' 






< 



"AN ARMY THAT RUNS LIKE CLOCKWORK" 

THE GERMAN ARMY IS THE MOST THOROUGHLY DRILLED OF ALL ARMIES, AND ITS COMMANDERS TUT THLIR FAITH IN ITS 
MASS EFFICIENCY DIRECTED BY THE GENERAL STAFF ALONG MINUTELY AND CAREFULLY PLANNED LINES 



66 



EUROPE AT WAR 




ALL GERMAN CAVALRYMEN ARE ARIHED WITH LANCES 

AN AMERICAN MILITARY AUTHORITY HAS CRITICIZED THESE WEAPONS AS OBSOLETE, BUT ADMITS THAT THEY WILL BE 

EFFECTIVE AT CLOSE QUARTERS 




NEWS GATHERERS FOR THE GENERAL STAFF 

BICYCLE, MOUNTED, AND AEROPLANE SCOUTS BRING NEWS TO THE GERMAN STAFF, WHICH IS THE MOST THOROUGH ORGANI- 
ZATION OF ITS KIND IN THE WORLD 



THE ARMIES OF EUROPE 



67 




GERMAN ARTILLERY IN ACTION ''°''^">'" "^ U"'''-™-'' «■■ ""denvood. n. y. 

THE GERMANS BELIEVE THE KRUPP GUNS TAILED IN THE BALKANS ONLY BECAUSE THEY WERE NOT PROPERLY HANDLED 




'■A CARAVAN LOADED WITH DEATH" 

GERMAN FIELD ARTILLERY MARCHING THROUGH A MOUNTAIN VILLAGE. A PART OF THE KAISEr's 4 MILLION MEN 



EUROPE AT WAR 




Copyright by Unclenvood & Undenvond, N. Y. 

GERMiW OFFICERS MINING A BRIDGE 



Cop}'right by UndenvofiH ,S: Underwood, N. Y. 

GERMAN SAPPERS SETTING TORPEDOES 




THE GERJVIAN EMPEROR WITH HIS MILITARY STAFF IN IHE FIELD 



THE ARMIES OF EUROPE 



69 




RUSSIAN CAVALRY ON THE MARCH 



Copyri^iit liy tlie Ainericin Press Assuciati'.n 




CONSCRIPTION IN RUSSIA. DRAWING LOTS FOR MILITARY SERVICE 



70 



EUROPE AT WAR 




"THE BEAR THAT WALKS LIKE A MAN" 

A FAMOUS DESCRIPTION OF THE RUSSIAN SOLDIER, THAT SUGGESTS HIS MERITS AND HIS DEFECTS. RUSSIAN FIELD ARTILLERY 



THE ARMIES OF EUROPE 



71 




Copyright by the American Press Association 

FIRST KI-dlMKXT BELGIAN CHASSEURS AT LOUVAIN 




Cf.'iiyriyht by the Aiiieritaii Fress Association 



BELGIAN TROOPS LINED UP IN THE PUBLIC SQUARE IN LIEGE 



EUROPE AT WAR 




TYPES OF AUSTRIAN SOLDIERS SHOWING THE VARIETY 01- RACES MAKING UP THE AHLITARY 

FORCES OF THE DUAL EMPIRE 

UHLAN (lANDWEHR); AUSTRIAN (lANDWEHR); BOSNIA RIFLE-MAN; AUSTRIAN RIFLE-MAN; HUNGARIAN INFANTRY- 
MAN; TYROLESE SHARP-SHOOTER; BOSNIAN INFANTRY; HUNGARIAN INFANTRY; HUNGARIAN HUSSAR; HUSSAR (LAND- 
WEHR) ; HUNGARIAN RIFLE-MAN; MOUNTED RIFLE-MAN; BOSNIAN DRAGOON; MARINE. NOT ALL OF THE FIFTEEN UNI- 
FORMS ARE PICTURED HERE BUT ENOUGH ARE SHOWN TO INDICATE THE GREAT VARIETY IN SERVICE 




AUSTRIAN FIELD ARTILLERY AND AUSTRIAN CAVALRY 

THE AUSTRIAN ARMY HAS NOT BEEN THOROUGHLY TESTED SINCE ITS DEFEAT BY PRUSSIA IN 1866; THEORETICALLY ITS 



EFFICIENCY IS HIGH 



THE ARMIES OF EUROPE 



73 




ITALIAN INFANTRY CROSSING A DANGEROUS PASS 




Pliotoyraph by James F j. Archibald 






\ 




AUSTRIAN INFANTRY AND MOUNTAIN ARTILLERY 



74 



EUROPE AT WAR 




SERVIAN GUNS ON THE MARCH— THE REALITY WTTHUUT THE POMP OE WAR 



THE NAVIES 



75 



Elizabeth. These last eight ships will not be ready 
until next year. 

Great Britain thus has afloat and ready for 
service sLxty battleships, twenty of which are 
of the Dreadnought or big gun type. In addi- 
tion to these there are ten battle-cruisers, equal 
to taking their place in the line of battle, of which 
nine are now ready and the other nearly so. 
They are the Inflexible, Indomitable, Invincible, 
of 17,250 tons displacement and 41,000 horse 
power (turbine), the Indefatigable, of 18,750 tons 
displacement and 43,000 horse-power (turbine): 
the New Zealand, of 18,800 tons, and the Aus- 
tralia, with 19,200 tons displacement, both with 
44,000 horse-power developed by turbine-engines. 
All these ships have a speed of 25 knots, 8 inches 
of armor belt, 10 inches big gun protection, and a 
coal capacity of 2,500 tons. Their armament 
is 8 12-inch, 16 4-inch quick fire, 5 machine guns 
and 5 torpedo tubes. 

The Lion and the Princess Royal, launched in 
191 2, and the Queen Mary, of 1913, are alike, ex- 
cept that the Queen Mary has 27,000 tons dis- 
placement and 75,000 horse-power. 

The other two have 26,350 tons displacement, 
70,000 horse-power, and 3,500 tons coal capac- 
ity. They have a speed of 28 knots, 9.75 inches 
of armor belt, and 10 inches protection for the 
big guns. The armament consists of 8 12-inch, 
12 4-inch quick fire and 5 machine guns. They 
have 2 torpedo tubes. 

This year's battle-cruiser, the Tiger, has 
28,000 tons displacement, her turbines develop 
110,000 horse-power, she has a speed of 30 knots, 
10.75-inch armor belt, and ii-inch protection 
for the big guns. Her coal capacity is 4,000 tons. 
She has 8 13.5-inch, 12 6-inch quick fire, and 5 
machine guns. 

Following these are thirty-four armored cruisers 
of high speed, which may be called general serv- 
ice ships, to be used for scouting or fighting as 
the case may be. They have neither the arma- 
ment nor protection to enable them to take a 
place in the line-of-battle, but their speed is 
sufficient to evade action with all battleships now 
in actual service. The list is as follows : 

Completed between the years 1901 and 1904 
are the Cressy, Sutley, Aboukir, Hague, Bacchante, 
and Euryalus. 

They are of 12,000 tons displacement, 21,000 
horse-power, and 1,600 tons coal capacity. They 



have a speed of 21 knots, 6 inches of side armor, 
and 6 inches protection for the big guns. The 
armament consists of 2 9.2-inch, 12 6-inch rapid 
fire, 12 3-inch rapid fire, 5 smaller rapid fire, and 
2 machine guns. They have 2 torpedo tubes. 

In 1902-3 the Drake, Good Hope, Leviathan, and 
King Alfred were launched. 

They are of 14,100 tons displacement, 30,000 
horse-power, and 2,500 tons coal capacity. They 
have a speed of 23 knots, 6 inches of side armor, 
and from 5 to 6 inches protection for the big guns. 
The armament consists of 2 9.2-inch, 16 6-inch 
rapid fire, 14 3-inch rapid fire, 3 smaller rapid fire, 
and 2 machine guns. They have 2 torpedo tubes. 

In 1903-4 were launched Kent, Essex, Mon- 
mouth, Berwick, Donegal, Lancaster, Cornwall, 
Cumberland, and Suffolk. 

They are of 9,800 tons displacement, 2,200 
horse-power, and 1,600 tons coal capacity. They 
have a speed of 23 knots, 4 inches of side armor, 
and 5 inches protection for the big guns. The 
armament consists of 14 6-inch rapid fire, 8 3-inch 
rapid fire, 5 smaller rapid fire, and 8 machine guns. 
They have 2 torpedo tubes. 

In 1905 the Antrim, Carnarvon, Hampshire, 
Da'onshire, Roxburgh, and in 1906, the Argyle 
were launched. 

They are of 10,850 tons displacement, 21,000 
horse-power, and 1,800 tons coal capacity. They 
have a speed of 22.3 knots, 6 inches of side belt, 
and from 5 to 6 inches protection for the big guns. 
The armament consists of 4 7.5-inch, 6 6-inch 
rapid fire, 24 small rapid fire, and 2 machine guns. 
They have 2 torpedo tubes. 

The Black Prince, Duke of Edinburgh, Cochratie, 
and Natal were launched in 1906, and the Achilles 
and Warrior in 1907. 

They are of 13,550 tons displacement, 23,500 
horse-power, and 2,000 tons coal capacity. They 
have a speed of 22.3 knots, 6 inches of armor 
belt, and 6 inches protection for the big guns. 
The armament consists of 6 9.2-inch, 10 6-inch 
rapid fire, 22 small rapid fire, and 8 machine guns. 
They have 3 torpedo tubes. 

In 1908 came the Shannon, Minotaur and 
Defence. 

They are of 14,600 tons displacement, 27,000 
horse-power, and 2,250 tons coal capacity. They 
have a speed of 23 knots, 6 inches of armor 
belt, and 8 inches protection for the big guns. 
The armament consists of 16 6-inch rapid fire, 12 



76 



EUROPE AT WAR 



3-inch rapid fire, 14 smaller rapid fire, and 2 
machine guns. They have 5 torpedo tubes. 

The details of the actual fighting ships of im- 
portance are completed with the following seven- 
teen heavily protected cruisers: 

Edgar (1893), Endymion (1893), Hawke (1893), 
Grafton (1894), Theseus (1894), of 7,350 tons dis- 
placement. 

They have 12,000 horse-power and 1,250 tons 
coal capacity. They have a speed of 19.5 knots, 
5 inches of protective deck, and 6 inches protec- 
tion for the big guns. The armament consists 
of 2 9.2-inch, 10 6-inch rapid fire, 17 smaller rapid 
fire, and 2 machine gi;r.s. They have 2 torpedo 
tubes. 

The Gibrallar, Crescait, and Royal Arthur, of 
7,700 tons, have the same speed, armor, and 
coal capacity. Their armament, however, is 

1 9.2-inch, 12 6-inch rapid fire, 19 smaller rapid 
fire, and 2 machine guns, and 2 torpedo tubes. 

The Terrible in 1898 was in a class by itself. 

She is 14,460 tons displacement, 25,000 horse- 
power, and 3,000 tons coal capacity. She has 
a speed of 22 knots, 6 inches of protective deck, 
and 6 inches protection for the big guns. The 
armament consists of 2 9.2-inch, 16 6-inch rapid 
fire, 16 3-inch rapid fire, 14 smaller rapid fire, and 

2 machine guns. 

Between 1899 and 1902 twelve heavily pro- 
tected cruisers were built, all of 11,000 tons dis- 
placement. The Diadem, Europe, Niobe, and 
Andromeda had 16,500 horse-power, the Amphi- 
trite, Argonaut, Ariadne, and Spartiate, 18,000 
horse-power. 

Each has 2,000 tons coal capacity; a speed of 
20.5 knots, 4 inches of protective deck, and 6 
inches protection for the big guns. The arma- 
ment consists of 16 6-inch rapid fire, 12 3-inch 
rapid fire, 14 smaller rapid fire, and 2 machine 
guns. They have 2 torpedo tubes. 

The first eight of these ships are comparable 
to our Saratoga and Brooklyn. The others are 
larger, but have not higher speed than these two. 
They could not stand for a moment before any of 
the classes preceding them. 

Following these are eight of 3,600 tons dis- 
placement which should be ready this year. They 
were designed for scouts. They have 37,000 
horse-power turbines, and a designed speed of 
30 knots. They carry only the light armament 
of 2 6-inch rapid fire, 6 4-inch rapid fire, and 2 



machine guns. Eight more of 8,740 tons of 
40,000 horse-power, and 30 knots, with the same 
armament, the same fuel capacity (of 750 tons of 
oU) will not be ready until next year. AU have 
a belt of 3-inch steel and 4-inch protection for 
the guns. They are, of course, in no sense fight- 
ing ships, but their role is of the utmost import- 
ance; that of supplying information regarding 
the whereabouts of an enemy. 

Of the seventy protected light cruisers now 
ready (twenty-eight of which antedate 1900), 
varying from 2,135 to 5,880 tons, there are twenty- 
six with a speed of 25 knots. None carry heavier 
than 6-inch guns and can be reckoned, for war, 
chiefly as scouts. No one of them has more than 
1,225 tons fuel capacity, and most of them much 
less. Their radius of action is thus moderate. 

One hundred and thirty-four of the 232 com- 
pleted destroyers are of ocean-going type, and 
nearly all these are oil-bumers and of from 30 to 

35 knots. All e.xceed 700 tons displacement; 70 
exceed 800 tons; 40 are about 1,000 and 16 are 
from 1,200 to 1,350 tons. One, the Swift, 
launched so long ago as 1907, has a displacement 
of 2,170 tons, 30,000 horse-power, and a speed of 

36 knots. All are armed usually with 4-inch guns 
not exceeding four in number, and the majority 
carry 21-inch torpedo tubes. Such torpedoes of 
the best type have a range of more than five sea 
miles (say six land mUes) at an average speed of 
24 knots. Great Britain has 75 destroyers and 
22 building. 

In addition to the ships mentioned, England 
has at command 3 merchant steamers of more 
than 25 knots; 4 of from 22 to 25; 11 from 20 to 22, 
and 29 from 18 to 20. These can all be utilized 
for cruising, but they can play no real part in the 
present war except as against Like vessels of 
Germany, which latter is almost equally well off 
in this respect. 

FRANCE 

The French navy, though fourth in rank of 
naval Powers, naturally comes after that of 
England as an ally. There are on the list eight- 
een battleships of the older types which can be 
considered serviceable, ranging in dates of launch- 
ing from 1894 to 1909. As generally in France 
not less than four, and often five, years passed 
from the time of "laying down" to completion, 
it will be seen that most of these eighteen are by 



THE NAVIES 



77 



no means modem. Four up-to-date modem 
ships are, however, completed and are ready for 
service. 

The Carnot was launched in 1896. Her dis- 
placement is 11,954 tons, her horse-power 15,000 
and her coal capacity 700 tons. Her speed is 
18 knots, her side armor 17.75 inches, and her big 
gun protection 13.75 inches. Her armament, like 
that of the Massena, launched in 1898, is 2 12- 
inch, 2 io.8-inch, 8 5.5-inch rapid fire, and 28 
smaller guns, and 2 torpedo tubes above water, 
and 2 below. The Massena's displacement is 
11,735 tons, her horse-power 13,500, and her coal 
capacity 800 tons. Her speed is iS knots, her 
side armor is 17.75 inches, and the big gun pro- 
tection from 8.5 to 16 inches. 

In 1898 France also launched the Charlemagne, 
and Gaidois, and in 1900 the St. Louis. They are 
of about 11,000 tons displacement, 14,500 horse- 
power, and 1,100 tons coal capacity. They have 
a speed of 18 knots, 14 inches of side armor, and 
from 8 to 13 inches protection for the big guns. 
The armament consists of 4 12-inch, 12 5. 5-inch 
rapid fire, 8 3.9-lnch rapid fire, 20 smaller guns. 
They have 4 torpedo tubes. 

The Bouvet (1898) of 12,000 tons, has 14,000 
horse-power, and 800 tons coal capacity; 18 knots 
speed, 16 inches side armor, and 8 to 14.75 inches 
of protection for the big guns. She carries 212- 
inch, 2 io.8-mch rapid fire 8 5.5-inch rapid fire, 
and 19 smaller guns. She has 2 torpedo tubes 
above water and 2 below water. 

The Suffren (1903), of 12,527 tons, has 16,200 
horse-power, and 1,820 tons coal capacity; 18 
knots speed, 11 inches side armor, and 9 to 13 
inches of protection for the big guns. She carries 
4 12-inch, 10 6.4-inch rapid fire, 8 3.9-inch rapid 
fire, and 30 smaller guns. She has 2 torpedo 
tubes above water and 2 below. 

The Republique (1906) and Patrie (1907), of 
14,635 tons has 18,000 horse-power, and 1,825 
tons coal capacity; 18 knots speed, 11 inches side 
armor, and 9 to 13 inches of protection for the 
big guns. She carries 4 12-inch, 18 6.4-inch rapid 
fire, and 28 smaller gims. She has 2 torpedo 
tubes under water. 

The Democratie, the Justice, and the Veriti 
were launched in 1908. 

They are of 14,640 tons displacement, 18,000 
horse-power, and 1,825 tons coal capacity. They 
have a speed of 18 knots, 11 inches of side armor. 



and from 9 to 13 inches protection for the big 
guns. The armament consists of 4 12-inch, 
10 7.6-inch rapid fire, and 28 smaller guns. They 
have 2 torpedo tubes. 

In 191 1 came the Danton, Mirabeau, Diderot, 
Condorcet, Voltaire, and in 191 2 the Vergniaud. 

They are of 18,027 tons displacement, 22,500 
horse-power (turbine) and 2,100 tons coal capac- 
ity. They have a speed of 19.25 knots, 10 inches 
of side armor and from 9 to 1 2 inches protection 
for the big guns. The armament consists of 
4 12-inch, 12 9.4-inch rapid fire, 16 3-inch rapid 
fire, and 8 smaller guns. They have 2 torpedo 
tubes. 

The Jean Bart and the Courhet were launched 
in 1913, and the France and Paris in 1914. 

They are of 23,095 tons displacement, 28,000 
horse-power (turbine), and 3,000 tons coal capac- 
ity. They have a speed of 20 knots, io| inches 
of side armor, and from 9 to 1 2 inches protection 
for the big guns. The armament consists of 12 
12-inch, 22 5.5-inch rapid fire, and 8 smaller 
guns. 

There are building, to be completed in the next 
two years, eight more ships of about the same dis- 
placement as the last four, six of which are to 
have one knot more of speed with 11 and i2f 
inches of side armor and the last five with 9 
to 17 inches of big-gun protection. Three of 
these ships are to carry 10 13.4-inch guns, and 
the others 12. None are now ready. 

France has no battle-cruisers but has nineteen 
armored cruisers, one of which, the Pothuau, 
is of but 5,374 tons; one the Jeanne d'Arc of 
1 1 ,092 ; three, the Gueydon, Montcalm, and Dupetit 
Thouars of 9,367; three (completed in 1903), the 
Dupleix, Desaix, and Kleber of 7,578 tons four 
the Marseillaise, Gloire, Aube, and Conde of 9,856 
tons; three (completed in 1904- 1906), the Leon 
Gambetla, Jules Ferry, and Victor Hugo of 12,351 
tons; two (1908 and 1909) the Jules Michelet, and 
Ernest Renan of 12,370 and 13,427 tons; and two 
(1910 and 191 1), the Edgar Quinet and Waldeck 
Rousseau of 13,780 tons. The heavier of these 
ships has a designed speed of 23 to 23^ knots, 
6 to 6; inches side armor, and 8-inch protection to 
their larger guns. They carry from 2,100 to 
2,300 tons of coal. Their main batteries are 
generally of 2 7.6-inch rapid fire, and 8 6.4-inch 
rapid fire. The Gambetla class, however, carries 
4 7.6-inch with 16 6.4-inch, both rapid fire. The 



78 



EUROPE AT WAR 



Edgar Quinel and Waldeck Rousseau carry 14 
7.6-inch rapid fire. 

Two protected cruisers, the D'Entrecasteaux 
and Guichen, and 10 Hght cruisers of no fighting 
importance complete the list of French ships. 

France is, however, strong, so far as numbers 
go, in destroyers, torpedo boats, and submarines, 
having ready 84 of the first with displacements 
from 276 to 804 tons and speeds of 28 and 31 
knots. She has 135 torpedo boats and 78 sub- 
marines, but many of these are of small size. One 
hundred and one of her torpedo boats are of but 
about 95 tons, and 20 of the submarines have a 
displacement of but 67 tons. They can hardly cut 
any figure except for purely local defence. Thirty- 
three of the submarines, however, have a surface 
displacement of 390 tons; 2 of 410; 6 of about 550; 
2 of 785, and 7 of 830. The surface displacement 
is usually (roughly) about 70 per cent, of the 
submerged. These larger submarines carry from 
6 to 8 torpedo tubes. Twelve now building of 
520 (surface) tons displacement have Diesel 
motors of 2,000 horse-power. They are expected 
to have a surface speed of 1 75 knots and a speed of 
8 knots submerged. This last class will carry 
four small guns. 

There are attached to the fleet 16 auxiliaries 
as mine layers, submarine destroyers, and aero- 
plane mother ships, of from 300 to 7,898 tons; 
half, however, are under i ,000 tons. 

RUSSIA 

Russia, since her fateful struggle with Japan, 
has diligently labored to reestablish her fleet, 
but she has not as yet made any great actual 
headway. But three of her old battleships were 
left from the wreck of the war, the Tri Sviatit- 
elia, the PanleleUnon, and Czarevitch. 

The Tri Sviatitelia, of 1896 (in the Black Sea), 
has a displacement of 13,318 tons, 10,600 horse- 
power, a speed of 17 knots, and coal capacity 
of 1,000 tons. Her side armor is 16 inches and 
the big gun protection from 12 to 16 inches. She 
has 4 12-inch, 10 6-inch rapid fire, and 4 4.7-inch 
rapid fire guns and 2 torpedo tubes above 
water. 

In the Black Sea also is the Panleleimon (1902), 
of 12,480 tons, has 10,600 horse-power, and 1,250 
coal capacity, 1 7 knots speed, 7 to 9 inches of side 
armor, and 10 to 12 inches of protection for the 
big guns. She carries 4 12-inch, 16 6-inch rapid 



fire, 14 3-inch and 28 smaller guns. She has 5 
torpedo tubes under water. 

The Czarevitch (1902), of 12,912 tons has 16,300 
horse-power and 1,360 tons coal capacity; 18 knots 
speed, 10 inches side armor, and 8 to 11 inches of 
protection for the big guns. She carries 4 12-inch 
rapid fire, 1 2 6-inch rapid fire, 20 3-inch rapid fire, 
and 28 smaller guns. She has 2 torpedo tubes 
under water. 

The Slava (1906), of 13,516 tons, has 16,000 
horse-power and 1,250 tons coal capacity; 18 
knots speed, 10 inches side armor, and 8 to 11 
inches of protection for the big guns. Her arma- 
ment is the same as that of the Czarevitch. 

The Ivan Zlatoust (1910) and the Elstafi (1911) 
are both in the Black Sea. 

They are 12,733 tons displacement, 10,600 
horse-power, and 1,400 tons coal capacity. They 
have a speed of 16 knots, 7 to 9 inches of armor 
belt, and from 10 to 12 inches protection for the 
big guns. The armament consists of 4 12-inch, 
4 8-inch, 12 6-inch rapid fire, 14 3-inch rapid fire, 
and 8 smaller guns. They have 5 torpedo tubes. 

In 1911 the Andreas Pervozvanni and the Im- 
perator Pavel I were launched. 

They are of 17,200 tons displacement, 17,600 
horse-power, and 3,000 tons coal capacity. They 
have a speed of 18 knots, 6 to 11 inches of side 
armor, and from 10 to 12 inches protection for the 
big guns. The armament consists of 4 12-inch, 
14 8-inch, 20 4.7-inch rapid fire, and 14 smaller 
guns. They have 5 torpedo tubes. 

There are altogether six armored cruisers, 
none of which are in the Black Sea. 

The Rossia (189S), of 12,130 tons has 18,000 
horse-power and 2,500 tons coal capacity; 20 
knots speed, 5 to 10 inches side armor, and 2 
inches of protection for the big guns. She car- 
ries 4 8-inch, 22 6-inch rapid fire, 12 3-inch rapid 
fire, and 36 smaller guns. She has 5 torpedo 
tubes above water. 

The Gromoboi (1901), of 12,336 tons, has 18,000 
horse-power and 2,500 tons coal capacity; 20 
knots speed, 6 inches side armor, and 2 to 6 inches 
of protection for the big guns. She carries 4 8- 
inch, 22 6-inch, 20 3-inch, and 31 smaller guns. 
She has 2 torpedo tubes above water and 2 below. 

The Rurik (1907), of 15,170 tons, has 19,700 
horse-power, and 2,000 tons coal capacity; 21 
knots speed, 6 inches side armor, and 8 inches of 
protection for the big guns. She carries 4 10- 



J 



THE NAVIES 



79 



inch, 8 8-inch, 20 4.7-inch rapid fire, and 18 smaller 
guns. Slie has 2 torpedo tubes under water. 

The Admiral Makharof was launched in 1907, 
and the Pallada and Bay an in 191 1. 

They are of 7,900 tons displacement, 16,500 
horse-power, and 1,020 tons coal capacity. They 
have a speed of 21 knots, 4 to 8 inches of side 
armor, and from 3 to 7 inches protection for the 
big guns. The armament consists of 2 8-inch, 
8 6-inch rapid fire, 20 3-inch rapid fire, and 7 
smaller guns. 

There are eight cruisers, of from 3,100 to 
6,700 tons, of no fighting value however. These 
are the Askold (at Vladivostolc), Diana, Aurora, 
Kagiil (Black Sea), Oleg, Pamyal Merkurya 
(Black Sea), Zemtchug (Vladivostok), and Almaz 
(Black Sea). 

Russia has but 14 torpedo boats, all small and 
of little value. She is, however, fairly well off as 
to destroyers and submarines. She has 91 of 
the former, 34 of which exceed 500 tons in dis- 
placement, and ten are more than i ,000. About 
thirty of these destroyers are in the Black Sea 
and six at Vladivostok. Of the 55 submarines 
built or building, 37 are completed. Twenty- 
two, however, are under 135 tons surface dis- 
placement; twelve are of 360 tons or more, rising 
to 500. 

GERMANY 

Turning to the three Powers of the other 
alliance (though Italy at the moment of writing is 
not yet involved in the war), Germany of course 
has easily the lead, with 36 battleships, 5 battle- 
cruisers, 9 armored cruisers and 43 cruisers, as her 
sea fleet. She also has, complete, 130 destroj'ers 
and 27 submarines. Her 16 torpedo boats are too 
small to be of value, her attention being given, very 
wisely, to the destroyer instead. The following 
is the list of her battle fleet: 

The Kaiser Friedrich III (1898), Kaiser Wil- 
helni II, (1900), Kaiser Wilhelm der Grosse (1901), 
Kaiser Karl der Grosser (1901), Kaiser Barbarossa 
(1901) form the first type. 

They are of 10,614 tons displacement, 13,000 
horse-power, and 1,050 tons coal capacity. They 
have a speed of 18 knots, 12 inches of side armor, 
and 10 inches protection for the big guns. The 
armament consists of 4 9.4-inch, 14 5.9-inch rapid 
fire, 12 3.4-inch rapid fire, and 20 smaller guns. 
They have 5 torpedo tubes. 

The second type- includes the Wittelshach, 



Weliin, Zdhringen, launched in 1902, and the 
Schwaben and Mecklenburg of 1903. 

They are of 11,643 tons displacement, 14,000 
horse-power, and 1,450 tons coal capacity. They 
have a speed of 18 knots, 9 inches of side armor, 
and 10 inches protection for the big guns. The 
armament consists of 4 9.4-inch, 18 5.9-inch rapid 
fire, 12 3.4-inch rapid fire, and 20 smaller guns. 
They have i torpedo tube above water, and 5 
under water. 

In 1904 the Braunschweig was launched, the 
Elsass, Hessen, and Preussen in 1905, and the 
Loihringen in 1906. 

They are of 12,997 tons displacement, 16,000 
horse-power, and 1,800 tons coal capacity. They 
have a speed of 18 knots, 9.75 inches of side 
armor, and 1 1 inches protection for the big guns. 
The armament consists of 4 ii-inch, 14 6.7-inch 
rapid fire, 12 3.4-inch rapid fire, and 20 smaller 
guns. They have i torpedo tube above water and 
2 below. 

In 1906, 1907, and 1908 Germany built the 
Deutschland, Hannover, Pommern, Schlesien, and 
Schleswig-Holsiein. 

They are of 12,997 tons displacement, 16,000 
horse-power, and 1,800 tons coal capacity. They 
have a speed of iS knots, 9.75 inches of side 
armor, and 1 1 inches protection for the big guns. 
The armament consists of 4 ii-inch, 14 6.7-inch 
rapid fire, 22 3.4-inch rapid fire, and 8 smaller 
machine guns. They have 6 toq^edo tubes. 

In 1909 and 19 10 Germany built two ships a 
3'ear, the Nassau and Westfalen in 1909 and the 
Rheinland and Posen in 1910. 

They are of iS,6oo tons displacement, 20,000 
horse-power, and 2,700 tons coal capacity. They 
have a speed of 19.5 knots, 9.75 inches of side 
armor, and 1 1 inches protection for the big guns. 
The armament consists of 12 ii-inch, 12 5.9-inch 
rapid fire, 16 3.4-inch rapid fire, and 2 smaller 
guns. They have 6 torpedo tubes. 

In 191 1 three ships were launched, the Ost- 
friesland, the Helgoland, and the Thuringen. 
In 191 2 there was but one, the Oldenburg. 

They are of 22,440 tons displacement, 25,000 
horse-power, and 3,000 tons coal capacity. They 
have a speed of 20.5 knots, 11 inches of side 
armor belt and 11 inches protection for the big 
guns. The armament consists of 12 12-inch, 
14 5.9-inch rapid fire, 14 3.4-inch rapid fire, and 
2 smaller guns. They have 6 torpedo tubes. 



8o 



EUROPE AT WAR 



In 1913 there were five battleships: the Fried- 
rick der Crosse, Kaiser, Kaiser in, Konig Albert, 
Prinz Regent Luitpold. 

They are of 24,310 tons displacement, 28,000 
horse-power (turbine), and 3,600 tons coal 
capacity. They have a speed of 21 knots, 13 
inches of side armor, and 11 inches protection 
for the big guns. The armament consists of 10 
1 2-inch, 14 5.9-inch rapid fire, 1 2 3.4-inch rapid fire, 
and 2 smaller guns. They have 5 torpedo tubes. 

For 1914 there are the Markgraf, the Grosser 
KurjUrsl, and the Konig. 

They are of 26,575 tons displacement, 35,000 
horse-power (turbine). They have a speed of 
22 knots, 13 inches of side armor, and 13 inches 
protection for the big guns. The armament 
consists of 10 14-inch, 14 5.9-inch rapid fire, 
12 3.4-inch rapid fire, and 2 smaller guns. They 
have 5 torpedo tubes. 

The Von der Tann (1910), of 19,400 tons, has 
43,000 horse-power (turbine), and 2,800 tons 
coal capacity; 25 knots speed, 4 to 6 inches side 
armor, and 8 inches of protection for the big guns. 
She carries 8 ii-inch, 10 5. 9-inch rapid fire, and 16 
3 .4-inch rapid fire guns. She had 4 torpedo tubes. 

The Moltke (1911) and Goeben (1912), of 22,640 
tons, have 52,000 horse-power (turbine), and 
3,100 tons coal capacity; 25.5 knots speed, 4 to 
8 inches side armor, and 8 inches of protection for 
the big guns. They carry 10 ii-inch, 12 5.9- 
inch rapid fire, and 12 3.4-inch rapid fire guns. 
They have 4 torpedo tubes. 

The Seydlitz (1913) is the same as the Moltke, 
except its displacement is 24,610 tons and its 
horse-power 63,000. 

The Derflinger (1914) of 28,000 tons has 
100,000 horse-power (turbine), and 30 knots 
speed; gf inches of side armor. Her armament 
is unknown except that she has 6 torpedo tubes. 

The Fiirst Bismarck (1900) of 10,570 tons, has 
14,000 horse-power and 1,250 tons coal capacity 

19 knots speed, 4 to 8 inches side armor, and 
8 inches of protection for the big guns. She car- 
ries 4 9.4-inch, 12 5.9-inch rapid fire, 10 3.4-inch 
rapid fire, and 18 smaller guns. She has i tor- 
pedo tube above water and 2 below. 

Prinz Heinrich (1902) of 8,759 tons, has 
15,000 horse-power, and 1,500 tons coal capacity; 

20 knots speed, 2 to 4 inches side armor, and 4 to 
6 inches of protection for the big guns. She 
carries 2 9.4-inch, 10 5.9-inch rapid fire, 10 3.4- 



inch rapid fire, and 14 smaller guns. She has i 
torpedo tube above water and 2 below. 

The Prinz Adalbert (1903) and Friedrick Karl 
(1904) of 8,858 tons, have 18,500 horse-power, 
and 1,500 tons coal capacity; 21 knots speed, 3 to 
4 inches side armor, and 4 to 6 inches of protec- 
tion for the big guns. They carry 4 8.2-inch, 
10 5.9-inch rapid fire, 10 3.4-inch rapid fire, and 
14 smaller guns. They have i torpedo tube 
above water and 3 below. 

The Roon and the Yorck (1905), of 9,350 tons 
have 19,000 horse-power, and 1,600 tons coal 
capacity; 21 knots speed, 3 to 4 inches side 
armor, and 4 to 6 inches of protection for the 
big guns. They carry 4 8.2-inch, 10 s.g-inch 
rapid fire, 16 3.4-inch rapid fire, and 14 smaller 
guns. They have 4 torpedo tubes. 

The Scharnhorst (1907) and Gneisenau (1908) 
of 11,420 tons, have 26,000 horse-power, 22.5 
knots speed, 4 to 6 inches side armor, and 6 to 
6.75 inches of protection for the big guns. They 
carry 8 8.2-inch, 6 5.9-inch rapid fire, 20 3.4-inch 
rapid fire, and 18 smaller guns. They have 4 
torpedo tubes. 

The Blilcher (1909), of 15,550 tons, has 32,000 
horse-power, 24 knots speed, 4 to 6 inches side 
armor, and 6 inches of protection for the big 
guns. She carries 12 8.2-inch rapid fire, 8 5.9- 
inch rapid fire, 16 3.4-inch rapid fire. She has 
4 torpedo tubes. 

The Magdeburg, Breslau, Strassburg, and Stral- 
sund were launched in 191 2. 

They are of 4,478 tons displacement, 22,300 
to 25,000 horse-power (turbine), and 1,200 tons 
coal capacity. They have a speed of 26.75 knots, 
4 inches of side armor, and 3 inches protection 
for the big guns. The armament consists of 
12 4.1-inch rapid fire, and 2 machine guns. They 
have 2 torpedo tubes. 

The Karlsruhe and Rostock were launched in 
1913. They are of 4,820 tons displacement, 
30,000 horse-power (turbine), and 1,300 tons coal 
capacity. They have a speed of 26.75 knots, 
4 inches of side armor, and 3 inches protection 
for the big guns. The armament consists of 1 2 4. i- 
inch rapid fire, and 2 machine guns. They have 
2 torpedo tubes. 

Though these are reckoned by an English 
authority as armored cniisers, their armor, and 
particularly their gun protection, is too slight 
to bring them properly in the category. They 



MOBILIZATION 



8i 



are really scouts and of a high quality, as on 
their trial they were nearly a knot to two knots 
above their designed speed, the Strassburg show- 
ing 28.8. Some of the next class, the protected 
cruisers, 39 in number, have practically equal 
value as scouts, the Kolberg, Mainz, Koln, and 
Augsburg, of 4,281 tons, with turbines of 19,600 
horse-power, showing on trial from 26.32 to 
27.23 knots, and 28 of them from 21 to 24. 

Germany is unusually strong in destroyers, 
of which she has 143. Forty- two of these are 
from 350 to 413 tons; 5 of 480; 13 from 530 to 
560; 47 of about 650; 36 of 840 and 900 tons. 
Along with these are 27 submarines, 16 of which 
have a surface speed of 18 knots and 12 under 
water. What is known as the type U21, one 
of which passed into service last year, has a 
length of 213 feet 8 inches, and 20 feet beam. 

AUSTRIA 

Austria, Germany's supporter, has nine battle- 
ships ready, all which have been completed 
since 1905, as follows: 

In 1906 the Erzherzog Karl and Erzlierzog 
Friedrich were launched, and in 1907 the Erzher- 
zog Ferdinand Max. 

They are of 10,433 tons displacement, 14,000 
horse-power, and 1,315 tons coal capacity. They 
have a speed of 19.25 knots, 6 to 8.25 inches of 
side armor, and 9.5-inches protection for the big 
guns. The armament consists of 4 9.4-inch, 
12 7.6-inch rapid fire, 14 3-inch rapid fire, and 
16 smaller guns. They have 2 torpedo tubes. 

In 1910 came the Erzherzog Franz Ferdinand, 
and in 191 1 the Radetzky and Zrinyi. 

They are of 14,268 tons displacement, 20,000 
horse-power, and 1,200 tons coal capacity. They 
have a speed of 20 knots, 9 inches of side armor, 
and 9.75 inches protection for the big guns. The 
armament consists of 4 12-inch, 8 9-inch, 20 
3.9-inch rapid fire, 6 smaller rapid fire, and 2 
machine guns. They have 3 torpedo tubes. 



In 1912, the Viribus Unitis was launched, 
in 1913 the Teggethof and the Prinz Eugen. 

They are of 20,000 tons displacement, 25,000 
horse-power, and 2,500 tons coal capacity. They 
have a speed of 20 knots, 11 inches of side armor^ 
and II inches protection for the big guns. The 
armament consists of 12 12-inch, 12 5.9-inch 
rapid fire, 18 14-pounder rapid fire, and 4 smaller 
guns. They have 4 torpedo tubes. 

The Kaiserin Maria Theresa (1895), of 5,187 
tons, has 9,000 horse-power and 740 tons coal 
capacity; 19 knots speed, 4 inches side armor, 
and 4 inches of protection for the big guns. She 
carries 2 7.6-inch rapid fire, 8 6-inch rapid fire, and 
22 smaller guns. She has 4 torpedo tubes above 
water. 

The Kaiser Karl VI (1900), of 6,151 tons, has 
12,000 horse-power and 820 tons coal capacity; 
20 knots speed, 8.5 inches side armor, and 8 inches 
of protection for the big gims. She carries 2 9.4- 
inch, 8 6-inch rapid fire, and 28 smaller guns. 
She has 2 torpedo tubes above water. 

The St. Georg (1906), of 7,185 tons, has 12,300 
horse-power and 1,000 tons coal capacity; 21 
knots speed, 6.5 inches side armor, and 5 to 8 
inches of protection for the big guns. She car- 
ries 2 9.4-inch, 5 7.6-inch rapid fire, 4 6-inch 
rapid fire, and 17 smaller gims. She has 2 tor- 
pedo tubes. 

The ten light cruisers of Austria, varying in 
size from 1,506 tons to 3,966, call for no par- 
ticular remark excepting the two last completed: 
the Admiral Spaun, of 3,500 tons, 20,000 horse- 
power, and 27 knots, and the Saida, of the same 
tonnage, but of 25,000 horse-power and (proba- 
bly) 28 knots. Both have turbine engines. Their 
chief value in war could be only as scouts. 

There are 18 destroyers; 12 of 384 tons with 
285 knots. These latter carry 4 12-pounders and 
two 21-inch torpedo tubes. They have oil fuel. 

The six submarines are of but moderate size, 
ranging from 216 to 235 tons at the surface. 



HOW EUROPE TAKES THE FIELD: MOBILIZATION 

BY T. LOTHROP STODDARD 



THE idea underlying all modern Continental 
armies is universal military service, — 
that compulsory instruction of every able- 
bodied citizen which has resulted in the "Nation 



in Arms." In itself this idea is very old. It pre- 
vailed in the city-states of Ancient Greece and in 
the Roman Republic. B ut throughout the Middle 
Ages it almost dropped out of sight, while the 



82 



EUROPE AT WAR 



subsequent rise of despotic monarchies apparently 
gave in its death-blow. At the close of the Eigh- 
teenth Century' European armies were invariably 
small bodies of highly trained professional soldiers 
(largely foreign mercenaries), officered by noble- 
men inspired by feudal loyalty to their royal 
over-lord, the king. Such an army was pre- 
eminently the "King's Own"; it was quite out of 
touch with the nation at large whose chief military 
contribution in peace or war was the payment of 
taxes for the support of the king's army. 

The French Revolution gave this military sys- 
tem its death-blow and laid the foundation for 
the existing order of things. With the overthrow 
of the French crown the old "king's army" went 
to pieces, but since France was assailed by all 
Europe she was forced to improvise an army or die. 
The army was found through the new principle 
of the "levee en masse," — the rising of the na- 
tion to resist the in\'ader. The levee en masse 
produced enormous masses of men, entirely un- 
trained, of course, but full of fanatical courage, 
and since their opponents were small armies of 
professional soldiers too valuable to be rashly 
risked by generals possessing no adequate reserve 
forces, the French succeeded in beating off their 
enemies, and when a campaign or two had turned 
these raw le\'ies into veteran soldiers the vast 
French armies overran all Europe. True, the 
levee en masse had to be supplemented bj' the 
"conscription" (the taking of a certain percentage 
of available men by lot), yet even under the First 
Empire the French armies were more "national" 
than the old "king's armies" had ever been. 

Prussia's system, — "the nation in 
arms" 

However, neither the levee en masse nor the 
conscription produced the "nation in arms" of 
the present day. The volunteer or conscript of 
the French Revolution and Napoleonic Empire 
became in his turn a professional soldier and the 
exempted majority of the nation remained as 
untrained and unmiUtary as before. The next 
step toward the modern system was taken by 
Prussia. In the Eighteenth Century Prussia had 
been Europe's military teacher and possessed the 
most perfect "king's army" of the day. But the 
war with Napoleon in 1806 revealed the helpless- 
ness of the old order in face of the new French 
system. Once beaten at Jena, there were no 



reser\'es to reform the shattered army and resis- 
tance absolutely collapsed. However, in the ver>- 
depth of her humiliation Prussia found her salva- 
tion. Napoleon had limited the Prussian army 
to a merely nominal figure, but the Prussians 
cleverly turned the difficulty by making this small 
force consist largely of officers and under-officers, 
passing the entire youth of the country through 
the ranks in quick relays of intensive training, 
while at the same time possessing in the abnor- 
mally large number of officers and subalterns the 
permanent framework of a large army whenever 
the trained privates should be recalled from civil 
life to the colors. Here at last was the germ of 
that short-term, universal military service which 
has produced the modern "nation in arms." 

Nevertheless, nearly half a century was to 
elapse before the new system came into general 
use. The importance of the Prussian innovation 
was not realized by other nations, while in tmlitarj^ 
matters as in everything else the poHtical reaction 
following Napoleon's overthrow brought about a 
partial return to Eighteenth Century conditions. 
The "nation in arms" had a very uncongenial 
sound to absolute monarchs menaced by popular 
discontent; accordingly, long-service professional 
armies again became the rule, even Prussia show- 
ing no signs of militar}' progress for some time. 
But the troubled period after 1848 and the cry for 
German unity spurred Prussia to action, and 
under the guidance of that brilliant gala.xy of mili- 
tarj^ talent personified by Von Roon and Moltke 
Prussia perfected the system which in essence 
prevails to the present hour. 

The proposition of the "nation in arms" once 
assumed as a theoretical necessity, three problems 
were bound up with its successful reaUzation. 
These were: (i) Classification for future military 
service of the trained citizens returned to civil life; 

(2) their rapid assemblage at the required moment 

(3) their effective handling upon the theatre of 
hostiHties. These three problems are best 
summed up in the words "Reserve," "Mobiliza- 
tion," and " General Staff." 

THE "three-line" RESERVE SYSTEM 

The Reserve problem is clearly the first for 
solution. Here is the entire able-bodied citizen- 
ship of a large state Uable to miUtary service dur- 
ing a long period of years, — generally between 
the ages of twenty and forty-five. How does this 



MOBILIZATION 



83 



work out in practice? The first step is self-evident. 
Every year all the able-bodied young men of 
twenty are called to the colors and pass a certain 
length of time (generally two or three years), in 
acquiring their military training. Thereafter 
they return to civil life. It is obvious that in 
course of time milHons of trained men may be 
available in case of war. But it is equally obvious 
that they should be recalled for war-service not 
en masse but by degrees, with due regard for 
maximum military fitness and minimum disorgani- 
zation of the social and economic fabric of society. 
All this was worked out by the Prussians in 
their generally adopted "three-line" system of 
"Active Reserve," "Landwehr" and "Land- 
sturm." The Active Reserve is composed of those 
citizens only two or three years out of their mili- 
tary service. In wartime these join their old 
regiments of the peace-army at once, and since 
these regiments always possess an abnormally 
large proportion of officers and under-officers, the 
army which takes the field immediately after the 
outbreak of war is automatically doubled without 
being diluted, since the framework is fully equal 
to the increase in the ranks, while the reservists 
have not had time to lose the knack of their mili- 
tary duties. The next step is the calling out of 
the "Landwehr," or second Une, — citizens in the 
prime of life, generally about equal in numbers to 
the field army. These second-line reservists have 
already been enrolled in separate Landwehr regi- 
ments, with their own framework of officers and 
under-officers. They are at first used exclusively 
for garrison duty, guarding communications, etc., 
although after they have gotten back into shape 
many of them are sent to the front to repair the 
wastage of the field army. The third line, or 
"Landsturm," is not called out except as a last 
resort. It is obvious that these men of middle 
life, with settled positions and large families, will 
be relatively incapable of performing good mili- 
tary service, while their call to the colors will 
produce the greatest hardship and disorganization 
in the civil life of the nation. In any event they 
are used only for home duty. 

REGIONAL MOBILIZATION 

Having thus organized and classified a nation's 
trained citizenship, the next step is to assemble 
it in the hour of peril. This process is known as 
"mobilization." Applying as it does to millions 



of individuals scattered over a whole country, 
mobilization is naturally an extremely complex 
and dehcate affair, yet rapid mobilization is abso- 
lutely necessary, for since modern warfare has be- 
come more and more a matter of initial crushing 
blows followed up relentlessly to the end, it is 
quite plain that the nation which mobiUzes more 
quickly and smoothly than its opponent is already 
half assured of victory. The key to the riddle 
was found by the Prussians in their "regional 
army-corps" system, whereby the army is divided 
into army corps, each corps permanently located 
in a certain region and recruiting therefrom. This 
works well in both peace and war. The youth 
does his military service near home, mobilization 
generally finds the reservist within call of his 
barracks, and everyone goes to war surrounded 
by comrades of ids own kind. The chief military 
objection to regional mobilization is the possibility 
of a smaller but long-service professional army 
smaslung suddenly into the midst of the process, 
but as all the continental states to-day have the 
same system, this objection is of no practical im- 
portance. After mobilization comes "concentra- 
tion," or the transport of the assembled army 
corps to the theatre of hostilities|and their junction 
therein as an articulated lighting machine. To- 
day this is largely a railroad problem, and strate- 
gic railway Unes cover the map of Europe. 

THE GENERAL STAFF 

The third problem solved by the Prussian theor- 
ists of the mid-Nineteenth Century was raised by 
the enormous size of modem armies and by the 
extensive area of battlefields consequent upon the 
introduction of long-range rifles and artillery. 
Only a century ago the commander-in-chief, 
seated upon an adjacent hiU, could overlook and 
direct the whole course of a battle. This has now 
become impossible. Accordingly, to ensure 
smooth coordination, the directinggroupof officers 
must be previously trained, not merely to think, 
but to fed aUke, so that a few broad general orders 
win ensure harmonious development of a major 
operation extending over a wide theatre of action. 
This has been effected by the "General Staff," 
the keystone of the modern edifice of war. 

Such are the three solutions which enabled the 
Prussians to crush the old long-service, professional 
armies of Austria and France in 1866 and 1870, 
together with the French "levee en masse" of 



84 EUROPE AT WAR 

187 1. Prussia thereupon became the military of so many lambs to the slaughter. And since 

schoolmaster of Europe, exactly as she had done this is an experts' war, such blunders will assuredly 

a century before, after the victories of Frederick not take place. With these preliminary remarks 

the Great. All the continenUl armies are to- in mind, let us begin with the common archetype, 

day patterned on the Prussian model, albeit they — the German army, 

differ sufficiently in numbers, composition, and ^^„,,„ > 

^ , . r . GERMANY 'S EFFECTIVE MILITARY STRENGTH 

organization to warrant a brief comparative . 

analysis During the last few years the German army has 

ARMY STATISTICS ^^^^ greatly strengthened, but not to such an ex- 

Before proceeding to our detailed examination ^'"\^' ^^ °'^''^ *^^ theoretical universal miUtary 

of the various European military estabhshments, ^""^^^^ ^ "^"^'" °^ ^^^^^^ P-'^^tice. Germany's 

one word of explanation seems necessary. The g^eat population of nearly 70,000,000 gives her a 

press just now is full of statistics giving the im- ^uperfuity of men, and only half the able-bodied 

pression that nearly 20,000,000 soldiers are en- ^""f^ °^ ^^^ ^'"P^''^ ^^^ually do service with the 

gaged in the present struggle. Now the true ^^ f--^' fhe other half being assigned to the so- 

figures are tremendous enough, but they are ^^f. Ersatz-Reserve," where they get a Ught 

certainly far below the current "estimates." "^^'^ trammg. In war time, however, these 

There is no doubt that the contending nations ^'"^t^" reservists are caUed up, the younger 

possess 20,000,000 able-bodied men, aU of whom f° *^^ ^^^^^^ ^^^ regimental depots to be drilled 

might ultimately see service should the war prove ^'^^ ordmary recrmts for service in the field, the 

to be of long duration. But the frightful, econo- ^^'* apportioned according to age among the 

mic strain mvolved in the present conflict, to- Landwehr regiments or m the Landsturm. This 

gether with the very nature of modern warfare ^''^^^ Germany a plentiful supply of recruits in 

itself, combine to make a European war extending *^^ ^'''■^'"^^ P^"°^ two or three months after the 

over two or three years a highly improbable con- begmnmg of war without the disorganization of 

tingency. Everything points to the conclusion ^^^ Landwehr units by drafts for decimated field 

that this struggle will be decided in one or, at regiments. The peace strength of the German 

most, two campaigns. It has, therefore, seemed ^^^^ ^""my (deducting permanent garrison units, 

advisable to give only the net figures of trained '^^P"* ^'^^P'' ^^^^ ^^ ^^^^^ 800,000 with 650,000 

troops avaUable for field service during this period. ^^^"-^^ reservists called to the colors at once and 

We must never forget that modem warfare is a "^^^ 400,000 young, able-bodied Ersatz reservists 

highly technical science demanding expert knowl- training m the regimental depots and fit for service 

edge of those engaged m its pursuit. Its very "^ ^ ^^°rt time. The Landwehr is subdivided 

instruments are useless m unskiUed hands. To "^^o two " bans," according to age, each ban num- 

train even a private soldier is a process of months, ^^"ng about 600,000. The trained portion of the 

especially in the cavalry and artUlery branches, Landsturm, some 400,000 strong, consisting of 

while the production of capable officers and under- "'^ between thirty-nine and forty-five years of 

officers requires years. Furthermore, modem age, would be fau-ly efiective for home-guard and 

warfare has become to such an extent a matter of gamson duty. The untramed portion, slightly 

artUlery practice and the consumption of these °'°''^ numerous, would probably not be caUed out 

slowly produced objects is so rapid that the size "^ ^"^ ^^^"t. Here, then, m round numbers, is 

of an army is practicaUy restricted by its quota of the effective mihtary strength of Germany m the 

gun batteries and reserve material. When we Present crisis: 

add the complications of transport, for the feeding ^^'^^, ^ '"'^ ^Pf ^^<= strength and active reserves) i ,430,000 

, . . ., t- ' o t.rsatz Kecnats (available for active service in 

and supply of these vast masses of men, we can a short time) 400,000 

readily see the practical limitations imposed upon ^'!<'«"^^/ ('^^ ban) (fit for field work after a 

, .-^ , - , J . „ .,. ^ time if necessary) 600,000 

the Size of field armies. Every mihtary expert Total effective field forces 2,450,000 

knows that to send hosts of half-trained infantry laiidmhr (2nd ban) (for garrison and covering 

commanded by virtually xmtrained officers and duty) 600,000 

• ■v. , . 1 i- r 1 i'li Laiidsturm (trained) (for garrison and home 

without the proper proportion of cavalry, artillery, ju^y ^^y] 400,000 

and allied technical branches, would be sending Grand total effective forces 3,450,000 



MOBILIZATION 



85 



Austria's three-fold organization 

Turning next to Germany's ally, Austria- 
Hungary, we find a state of things very different 
from the highly unified German military machine. 
The peculiar constitution of the Dual Monarchy is 
reflected in its army. Austria-Hungary has, in 
fact, three separate military estabhshments : the 
common Imperial-Royal army (" KaiserUche 
Koenigliche"), the Austrian "Landwehr," and 
the Hungarian "Honved." These last two terms 
must not be confused with the German Landwehr, 
or 2nd reserves. In the Dual Monarchy the 
annual classes coming up for military training are 
apportioned among the three establishments and 
ever after remain subject to service only in the 
particular establishment to which they have been 
originally assigned, each establishment having its 
own reserve organization. The result of all this 
is a highly complex system which makes mobili- 
zation both slow and difficult. Fortunately for 
the strikuig power of Austria-Hungary, the Im- 
perial-Royal army is far stronger than the other 
two establishments put together, its peacestrength 
being 340,000 effectives, whereas the "Landwehr' 
and "Honved" number only 48,000 and 36,000, 
respectively. As no official figures of reserves or 
Landsturm are published, the war strength of 
Austria-Hungary is somewhat problematical- 
The best estimates of the effective field army are 
somewhat as follows: 

Imperial-Royal Army (with reserves) 600,000 

^'Landwehr " and " Honved " (with reserves) .... 230,000 
Ersatz Reserves, etc. (available for active service 

later) 220,000 



Total effective field forces 1,050,000 

UNIVERSAL SERVICE IN FRANCE 

Having thus considered the fighting power of 
Germany and Austria-Hungary, let us now exam- 
ine the military strength of their opponents. 
First of all, France. The stationary population 
of the RepubUc (to-day only 39,600,000) has made 
France the classic example of absolutely universal 
military service. France's desperate efforts to 
maintain a field army as large as that of her Ger- 
man neighbor have resulted in the enrolment 
of every Frenchman not positively unfit for mili- 
tary service. Indeed, even men with slight physi- 
cal defects are required to serve in the non- 
combatant branches of the army. In principle 
the German three-line reserve system is in force. 



though with a different classification. The Land- 
wehr and Landsturm are here combined into the 
so-caUed "Territorial Army," with a complete 
organization of its own, the Landwehr classes com- 
posing the Territorial first-line, the Landsturm 
classes forming the Territorial reserve. Another 
point to be noted is that since France possesses a 
large colonial empire, she maintains a distinct 
colonial army of the old professional type, it being 
composed of long-service troops, obtained mainly 
through voluntary enlistment and consisting of 
vigorous men in the prime of life. 

These "regulars," seasoned by actual foreign 
service, should prove of high fighting power, 
since the long-service regular, man for man, is 
normally superior to the ordinary short-term 
citizen soldier. Again, in addition to this white 
colonial force. France possesses a considerable 
native army recruited among the Arab-Berbers 
of Algeria and the warlike blacks of Senegal. The 
white colonial army numbers 47,000, the native 
troops 93,000, but it is evident that not much more 
than half these forces could be spared from the 
colonies for European service. 

The effective fighting strength of France is 
therefore as follows: 

Peace Establishment (metropolitan army) 800,000 

Reserves (active, available at once) 500,000 

Colonial and Native Troops (for European serv- 
ice) 80,000 



Total field army immediately available . .. 1,380,000 
Reserves (2nd line) (fit for field work if necessary) 600,000 



Total effective field forces 1,980,000 

Territorial Army (active) (for garrison and cover- 
ing duty) 500,000 

Territorial Reserves (trained) (for home duty 
only) 300,000 



Grand total effective forces 2,780,000 

RUSSIA'S SLOW MOBILIZATION 

From France let us turn to Russia. Certainly, 
at first sight, the eastern member of the Triple 
Entente looks formidable enough to meet both 
Germany and Austria-Hungary single-handed. 
Russia's vast population of nearly 180,000,000 
together with her huge size, covering one-sLxth of 
the entire land surface of the globe, apparently 
imply overwhelming armies of soldiers. How- 
ever, as a matter of fact, the very vastness of the 
Russian Empire involves such problems of dis- 
tance and multiplicity of interests that much of 
its strength can never be brought to bear on any 



86 EUROPE 

one given point, while its \vretched roads and inad- 
equate railway system prevent the eiTective devel- 
opment of all the forces possessed by even the 
European portion. These drawbacks become 
most apparent during the Russian mobiUzation, 
which is far slower than that of any other great 
power. Reservists often have to walk great dis- 
tances to arrive at their mihtary depots, and the 
inadequate train service correspondingly hinders 
the concentration of the mobilized army corps. 
So keenly has Russia felt her handicaps in this 
respect that she to-day makes no serious effort 
to hold Russian Poland, stretching so temptingly 
between East Prussia and Austrian Galicia, but 
is mobilizing far to the eastward, which will mean 
a very long-delayed advance. The Russian peace 
estabUshment is certainly enormous, numbering, 
as it does, about 1,200,000, but of these 200,000 
are m Asia (Siberia, Turkestan, and Manchuria), 
while 100,000 are in Transcaucasia, and neither 
of these armies can be safely denuded for the 
European theatre of war. 

Also, the huge population of European Russia 
can be drawn upon only to a certain point, since 
Russia possesses neither the artillery nor the 
permanent framework of ofBcers and subalterns 
required for the effective employment of such vast 
masses of men. The actual strength of the Rus- 
sian field army which will be employed against 
Germany and Austria-Hungary will probably be 
about as follows: 

Peace Establishment (European army) 900,000 

Reserves (active) (immediately available) 600,000 

Second Reserves (available after some time) .... 1,1 00,000 

Total effective field forces 2,600,000 

Italy's military establishment 

Before discussing the peculiar military estab- 
Ushment of the British Empire, the third member 
of the Triple Entente, it may be as well to cast 
a glance at the one great European power still 
holding aloof from the present struggle, — Italy. 
The first thing that strikes one's attention is the 
fact that despite Italy's large population of 
36,000,000 its army is smaller than might be 
anticipated. Italy's poverty does not permit it 
to train even half the annual quota of its able- 
bodied youth, the majority thus relieved from serv- 
ice with the colors receiving either a brief militia 
training or no military education at all. Further- 
more, mobilization is handicapped by three un- 



AT WAR 

favorable factors. In the first place Italy's penin- 
sular shape makes a strict regional distribution of 
its army corps a strategical impossibility; the 
bulk of the army must be kept at all times in the 
e.xtreme north in close proximity to the land fron- 
tiers. 

Also the still imperfect fusion of Italy's diverse 
populations has led the government to mi.\ men 
from every province of the country in the same 
regimental units, in order to hasten the break-up 
of local particularism and further Italian Unity. 
In war-time, however, these combined factors 
spell a slow and complex mobilization, many reser- 
vists having to travel great distances in order to 
rejoin their regiments. Another unfavorable 
mihtary factor is the extensive Italian emigration, 
which deprives the country in a sudden emergency 
of hundreds of thousands of its most vigorous 
reservists and entirely disorganizes many mihtar>' 
units. As nearly as can be estimated the actual 
effective strength of the Italian army is as follows: 

Peace EstabUshment 270,000 

Reserves (active) (immediately available) 250,000 

Mobile Militia (available for field duly after 

some time) 300,000 

Total effective field army 820,000 

Territorial Militia (trained) (for garrison and 
home duty) 700,000 

Grand total effective forces i ,s 20,000 

THE BRITISH ARMY — A SURVIVAL 

Looked at from the Continental point of view 
the British army is in every respect a "pecuhar 
institution." Unlike any of the great European 
military establishments, it is in fact a survival of 
the old Eighteenth Century system. A small 
army of long-service professional soldiers, officered 
by aristocrats, the British regular army has owed 
its continued e.xistence to England's insular posi- 
tion and to the fact that until the recent rise of 
German sea-power the Enghsh fleet afforded an 
absolute guarantee against any possible invasion 
by a Continental "nation in arms." The British 
regular army estabhshment on a peace footing 
numbers only 156,000 effectives, partly stationed 
abroad, and though many of the time-e.xpired 
soldiers are enrolled in a reserve organization, the 
British army on a war footing is numerically less 
imposing than that of several minor European 
states. True, the last few years have seen the 
formation of the "Territorial Army," a volunteer 
organization now numbering about 250,000, but 



MOBILIZATION 



87 



military experts everywhere have been a unit in 
declaring that such militia could not stand the 
shock of anything like an equal number of disci- 
plined Continental troops. Of course the British 
regulars, as might be expected of long-service 
professionals, are undoubtedly better than any 
other large body of European soldiers, but the 
"Territorials," with their imperfect equipment 
and their glaring lack of trained officers and under- 
officers, will long be incapable of standing in a 
Continental line-of-battle. 

The same is true of the various contingents 
now being offered by the various Dominions of the 
British Empire. The native Indian Army is of 
course of high fighting quality, but its remoteness 
from the European theatre of war and the danger- 
ous ferment of discontent in India would seem to 
preclude the drafting of any considerable portion 
of it for European service. The so-called "E.x- 
peditionary Force" which England has reckoned 
upon sending to the Continent in the event of 
what is now actually taking place has never been 
placed higher than 160,000 men, and some writers 
have maintained that even this would strip the 
home defense of the British Isles in dangerous 
fashion so long as the enemy's fleet remained unde- 
stroyed. The following table shows England's 
present effective military strength. No mention 
is made of the Indian Army for reasons above 
stated, and the Dominion contingents have 
likewise been omitted, since so many months must 
pass before these volunteer organizations can be 
equipped, trained, shipped and fitted for European 
battlefields that it is unlikely that they can figure 
much in the present campaign; and since modern 
wars tend to be of brief duration, the first cam- 
paign of the present struggle will very likely prove 
to be the last as well. 

Regular Army (peace footi jg; partly stationed 

abroad) 156,000 

Regular Reserve (available at once) 146,000 

Special Reserve (rapidly available) 63,000 

Total Regular Establishment 365,000 

Territorial Army 251,000 

Grand total effective forces 616,000 

BELGIUM, HOLLAND, SWITZERLAND 

Since the present war is nothing short of a 
general conflagration which may ultimately in- 
volve every European state, it will not be amiss 
to devote some space to a brief survey of the 



military estabUshments of the minor powers. 
First and foremost, a few words about that Bel- 
gian army that has shown prowess. Belgium has 
never adopted the principle of universal military 
service, but retains the older system of conscrip- 
tion. Her regular army on a peace-footing num- 
bers about 45,000, the trained reserves giving a 
total of 1 70,000 effectives in time of war. Along- 
side this regular establishment there is a local 
militia, the "Garde Civique," numbering some 
45,000. A few of its elite corps rank as high-grade 
militia, but most of its units are without serious 
military value. 

The neighboring state of Holland, though main- 
taining a good-sized Colonial Army, has little 
more than a militia organization for home defense, 
relying as Holland does upon its dikes to drown 
the invader's path. A knot of 20,000 regulars 
forms the nucleus about which would gather the 
Dutch militia to the number of perhaps 150,000. 
The third "neutral" state of Western Europe, 
Switzerland, is much better prepared to maintain 
its neutrality and would prove a formidable an- 
tagonist for the most powerful in\-aders. Switzer- 
land has long adopted the principle of universal 
military service; not hi the sense of a large stand- 
ing army fitted for instant attack, but with an 
entire population of well-trained and organized 
militiamen, ready for stubborn defense. The 
warlike nature of its hardy people and the strong 
barriers of its mountains would make an invasion 
of Switzerland a dangerous undertaking. In a 
supreme emergency Switzerland could place 
nearly 500,000 men in the field. 

THE BALKAN STATES 

Lastly, there remains a brief consideration 
of the military strength possessed by the several 
Balkan peoples. The recent Balkan wars were 
so destructive of both men and materiel that the 
efi'ective fighting power of these countries (Rou- 
m^nia excepted), must be largely a matter of 
conjecture. According to latest estimates, Servia 
and Montenegro together can put 300,000 men in 
the field, Greece another 300,000. The Turkish 
and Bulgarian materiel captured by these states 
in the late Balkan wars should have largely solved 
the problem of equipment for the present struggle. 
Bulgaria is in bad shape, disorganized by defeat, 
semi-bankrupt and very deficient in artillery. 
She could probably not put more than 250,000 



88 



EUROPE AT WAR 



effective troops in line of battle. Roumania, with 
her untouched resources of men, equipment and 
supply, is to-day the strongest of all the Balkan 
powers. She could put about 350,000 effectives 
into the field. Turkey, hke Bulgaria, is still under 
the shadow of defeat, and cannot have yet repaired 
her enormous losses of war materiel nor reformed 
that shattered framework of trained officers and 
under-officers so vital to the modem army. Since 



Turkey's entry into the present struggle would 
necessarily entaU a war with Greece, she would 
be obhged to station large forces in Western Asia 
Minor to guard against a Greek invasion and a 
rising of the dense Hellenic population of the 
^gean shore. It is therefore doubtful whether 
Turkey, despite her new strategic railways, could 
ever throw more than 400,000 men on European 
soil, and even these might be of questionable value. 



LAND AND NAVAL FORCES AT WAR 



LAND FORCES 





Com p. 
Service 


Standing 
Army 


Infantry 


Cavalry 


Artillery 


Other 


First Reserve 


Second 
Reserve 


Total 


Germany 


Yes 


790,000 


505,000 


86,000 


126,000 


73,000 


460,000 


2,600,000 


3,850,000 


Austria-Hungary 


Yes 


424,000 


197,000 


47,000 


37,000 


143,000 


396,000 


1 ,400,000 


2,220.000 


Russia 


Yes 


949,000 


627,000 


116,000 


138,000 


68,000 


1,838,000 


2,488,000 


5,400,000 


France 


Yes 


750,000 


361,000 


73>ooo 


97,000 


219,000 


700,000 


700,000 


2,150,000 


Servia 


Yes 


24,000 










246,000 


80,000 


*3So,ooo 


Great Britain 


No 


254,000 


96,000 


15,000 


33-000 


1 10,000 


206,000 


463,000 


898,000 


Belgium 


Yes 


58,000 


27,000 


6,000 


10,000 


15,000 


112,000 


170,000 


*34,ooo 


Japan 


a Yes 


250,000 










250,000 


1,000,000 


1,500,000 


Portugal 


i Yes 


30,000 










90,000 


140,000 


* 260,000 


Montenegro 


Yes 


4,000 










41,000 




45,000 



a Service compulsory in either army or navy 
b Exemption may be purchased by paying ta 



♦Doubtful 



Kaiser's Forces 

(Germany and Austria) . 
Allies 



Standing 

.\rmies 

.1,214,000 

.2,319,000 



3,S33.ooo 



Total Strength 

on Land 

6,070,000 

10,637,000 



16,707,000 



NAVAL FORCES 



















3 






a 








S. 


a 


a, 


3 


■si 


2 


S 





a 


1 




- 












Si 

2R 


"2 
■^ 


1 

a 


£ 


•3 

& 



a 

j2 





c 

s 

m 








S=a 


U05 


00a 


U.L> 







Q 


H 


t^ 


H 









Germany 


19 


7 


20 


9 


45 


7 


141 


47 


30 


325 


67,000 






Austria-Hungary 


4 





9 


3 


9 


3 


18 


53 


IS 


114 


i8,ooo 


1 


Forces 
Ships 439 
Men 85,000 






23 


7 


29 


12 


54 


10 


159 


100 


45 


439 


85,000 




Russia 


9 


4 


8 


6 





8 


105 


23 


48 


220 


52,000 


Navies at War 


France 


17 





IS 


18 


13 


6 


87 


173 


90 


419 


61,000 




Ships 1,876 


Servia 





































[ Men 393.000 


Great Britain 


29 


10 


.S8 


42 


70 


10 


227 


58 


8s 


569 


138,000 






Belgium 



































The Allies 




Japan 


9 


■^ 


1.^ 


12 


19 


5 


60 


54 


15 


192 


51,000 


Ships 1,437 




Portugal 








I 





6 


19 


2 


7 


2 


37 


6,000 


Men 308,000 




Montengro 











































64 


19 


75 


78 


117 


48 


481 


315 


240 


1437 


308,000 





AIR FLEETS OF THE NATIONS 



[ Reprinted, by permission, from the New 

FOR the first time warfare on a large scale 
may be expected in the air. With air 
fleets varying in size from the huge diri- 
gible establishment of Germany and the well- 
manned aeroplane squadrons of France and Great 
Britain to the tiny equipment of such a state as 
Servia, which has one or two imreported lighter- 
than-air machines, the nations are ready to 
embark in a new region of conflict. What wUl 
be accomplished in return for the vast sums 
expended in preparation for battles in the air is 
necessarily a matter of conjecture. Both dirigible 
and aeroplane have yet to be tried out under the 
severe conditions imposed by modern warfare, 
not the least of which is the type of gun devised 
to cope with flying objects high overhead. 

That much is expected from their air strength 
by the Powers of Europe is evidenced by the 
fact that they are said upon good authority to 
have expended collectively within the last six 
years something Hke $117,000,000 upon this arm 
of their service. Of this huge outlay, in round 
numbers, Germany has spent $28,000,000; France, 
$22,000,000; Russia, $1 2,000,000 ;Italy, $8,000,000; 
Austria, $5,000,000, and England, $3,000,000. 

Popular support of national funds added 
$3,500,000 to Germany, $2,500,000 to France, 
$1,000,000 to Italy, and $100,000 to Russia. 
Furthermore, appropriations of the Govern- 
ments for 1913 were: France, $7,400,000; Ger- 
many, $5,000,000; Russia, $5,000,000; England, 
$3,000,000; Italy, $2,100,000; Japan, $1,000,000, 
and Mexico, $400,000, as against $125,000 by the 
United States, making additional expenditures 
of $24,025,000 during the current year. It is 
now believed that the appropriation made by 
Germany of $37,000,000 to be expended during 
1914-18 may be drawn upon for immediate war 
emergencies. 

France has a far smaller equipment of dirigibles 
than her enemy, Germany, but the disadvantage 
is believed to be ofl'set in part by the formidable 
array of aeroplanes in the French service. All 
told, France, is believed to have an air force of 
nearly 800 aeroplanes and i , 200 airmen . She has an 
aeronautical corps organized in 3 territorial groups. 
Each group consists of from 2 to 4 companies, 
with from 2 to 5 detached sections with troops. 



York Evening Post's "War Gazetteer."] 

There are 27 sections, each having 8 aeroplanes; 
10 cavalry sections, each with 3 aeroplanes; 11 
fortress sections, with 8 aeroplanes each — a com- 
plete establishment of 334 aeroplanes. The 
aeronautical corps is also in charge of 14 dirigibles. 

Most of the French air fleet is said to be assem- 
bled atthe great flying camps of Rheims, Verdun, 
Toul, Epinal, and Belfort, where they are of in- 
valuable use as scouts against the army of inva- 
sion. They are also looked upon to increase 
greatly the power of artillery by careful recon- 
naissance. 

In general the aeroplanes are without guns, 
although some are known to carry Ught machine 
guns, and therefore suffer by comparison with 
the big air battleships, which are well armed. 
The smaller craft can, however, carry something 
like 200 poimds of explosives in the shape of 
bombs, and can be counted upon to use their cargo 
with considerable effect in the case of sustained 
sieges. International usage, with so little prece- 
dent as to the regulation of air fighting, leaves 
much to be desired. Undoubtedly some sort of 
code will develop from present hostUities. No 
prohibition attaches to firing upon aircraft, nor 
upon the return of the attack from above. The 
airman is prohibited, however, by a Hague con- 
vention against bombarding undefended towns 
and villages where no army is quartered. On 
his side he is similarly protected from being treated 
as a spy should he be captured in the performance 
of his air duties. 

German dirigibles are all well housed, most of 
them in the revolving airship sheds specially 
designed. Their distribution is governed by the 
needs of German boimdary defence. Friederichs- 
hafen, Strassburg, Metz, and Cologne are pro- 
vided with dirigibles. Others are stationed at 
Frankfort, Gotha, Thorn, Hamburg, Cuxhaven, 
and on the Island of Helgoland. These will be 
especially useful in resisting British advances on 
the North Sea coast. Still others at Konigsberg, 
Posen, and Breslau will assist in the defence of 
the Russian and Austrian frontier. 

Under the law of 19 13, Germany set about 
forming 5 aeroplane battalions, 17 companies in all. 
Her establishment last year was 173 officers, 4,446 
other ranks, with 24 dirigibles in military charge. 



9° 



EUROPE AT WAR 



Great Britain has given enthusiastic support 
to her aviation department under the leadership 
of Winston Churchill, since the whole air service 
of army and navy airship sections is under the 
Admiralty. At certain places on the coast the 
air servace has replaced the coast guard. In the 
army wing the Royal Fhdng Corps is about com- 
pleted to the number of 8 aeroplane squadrons, 
making nearlj^ 300 officer fliers. There are four 
sea-plane stations in England — at Calshot, near 
Portsmouth, Grain Island, FelLxstowe, and Yar- 
mouth. Two more are about completed in Scot- 
land at Dundee and at Fort George, near Crom- 
arty. Four more are contemplated to carry the 
line northward, and Dover and Plymouth, to the 
south, are to be equipped. The naval flying 
school and headquarters are at Eastchurch, and 
the army wing at Salisbury Plain and Farns- 
borough. With airships good progress has also 
been made. Three ships of fifteen tons have been 
ordered, but as yet the country is without a suita- 
ble shed for a ship as large as twelve tons. 

Austria-Hungary has been wthout the means 
to go in extensively for airships. She has three 
small sheds, and it has been reported that the 
German Government gave the Zeppelin Company 
permission before the war to sell six ships to 
Austria. Austria-Hungary has a small naval 



service of hydro-aeroplanes, the station being at 
Pola. The two types of aeroplanes constructed 
in Austria, Etrich-Taube and the Lohner-Daimler, 
are both good machines. 

Russia is without completed battle airships as 
yet; some are building, and she has thirteen of the 
smaller scouting class. She is credited with 
having eight airship sheds of good size. There 
are seaplane stations at Petrograd, Reval, Se- 
vastopol, and Cronstadt. The Curtiss type is 
largely used. Russia's most important element 
of strength in heavier-than-air machines is the 
machine designed by the Russian designer Sikor- 
sky. This machine is driven by four independent 
loo-horsepower motors, and has carried as many 
as sixteen passengers. The Russian Admiralty 
was said to have ordered five some time ago to 
be fitted as seaplanes, and the army has likewise 
arranged to secure some machines of the Sikorsky 

type- 
Italy's aeronautical service consists of a "spec- 
ialist" battalion of 5 companies and an experi- 
mental section; a flying battalion of 2 companies, 
and about 30 field squadrons of 7 aeroplanes each. 
She has besides some small airships. 

Belgium recently formed an aeronautical com- 
pany, consisting of the aeronautical school and a 
number of sections of 4 aeroplanes each. 



RESOURCES AND STAYING 
POWERS OF THE NATIONS 

EUROPE'S FOOD SUPPLY IN WAR TIME 

BY JAMES MIDDLETON 



READERS of history are fond of detecting 
a resemblance between the present Euro- 
pean situation and that which prevailed 
a century ago. Then the greatest European 
Powers were united in a struggle against one 
country — France; now they seem united against 
another common enemy, Germany. Now, as in 
1814, all the forces of Europe are determined 
to humiliate one overweening personality. In 
one respect, however, and this is a fundamental 
one, the situation is entirely different. A hundred 
years ago practically every great European Power 
was an economic entity. Each one could have 
built a Chinese Wall about itself and lived in- 
definitely. Each one, that is, raised on its own 
soil enough of the essential foodstuffs to support 
itself. Even England, in the Napoleonic wars, 
was largely an agricultural community. It raised 
both cereals and meat in sufficient quantities 
to stand an indefinite siege. Even as late as the 
Crimean War,ini853, England could go cheerfully 
to war with no fear of national starvation. 

If, as some one has said, an army travels upon 
its stomach, the same statement may be made 
of a nation itself at war. Clearly, any people 
that has its supply of food cut off would im- 
mediately have to submit to any humiliating 
terms proposed. Its position would be that of 
a huge beleaguered fortress. And there is at 
least one of the nations engaged in the present 
struggle, England, that faces this contingency; 
and another, Germany, that certainly has reasons 
for apprehension. A remarkable development 
of the present international situation is the de- 
pendence of one nation upon others for its food 
supply. There is no country of importance that 
does not import large amounts of food from almost 
every other. The United States, huge as are its 
foodstuffs, adds millions of dollars' worth to its 
supply from other sources. Even China, content, 
as we have supposed, with its staple rice, pur- 



chases immense quantities of American canned 
goods, especially salmon. Looking over the 
statistics, one is forced to conclude that there is 
no longer any such thing as a national taste in 
foods; each nation is rapidly picking up all the 
good things of another. The extent to which 
almost the entire world depends upon one or two 
countries for its coffee and tea — foods which, 
in the Middle Ages, were practically unknown 
in Europe — sufficiently illustrates the growth 
of this international taste. 

In the present conflict, however, these special 
foods will cut no particular figure; the great 
staples of life are the important considerations 
in an international war. In this struggle, wheat, 
not cotton, promises to be king. What, then, 
is the situation of the several nations in this res- 
pect? How are they to feed not only the huge 
armies in the field, but their own peoples? Un- 
questionably this is the first time in history when 
war has presented precisely this problem to the 
peoples involved. 

THE NATIONS THAT CAN SUPPORT THEMSELVES 

Beside little Montenegro, there are seven 
nations, at this writing, immediately involved. 
These are England, Germany, France, Russia, 
Belgium, Austria-Hungary, and Servia. We can 
immediately clarify the situation by arranging 
these countries in two classes: those that raise 
the essential food materials in sufficient quan- 
tities to support themselves, at least in time of 
peace, and those that do not. This division, as 
accurately as can be determined from available 
statistics, is as follows: 



)UNTREES SELF- 


COUNTRIES NOT SELF- 


SUPPORTING 


SUPPORTING 


Russia 
France 

Austria-Hungary 
Servia 


England 
Belgium 


DOUBTFUL 




Germany 





91 



92 



EUROPE AT WAR 



Of these Russia, next to the United States, is 
the largest wheat growing country in the world. 
Seven eighths of all the peasants are tillers of 
the soil. Two thirds of all the lands are sown 
with cereals. The nation raises not only enough 
to support its own enormous population, but 
exports large quantities. France, most investiga- 
tors are surprised to learn, ranks third — next 
to Russia and the United States — as a wheat 
growing land. The thrifty French farmers, with 
their comparatively small acreage, raise more 
wheat than the Argentine, British India, or 
Canada — all of them usually regarded as huge 
granaries. They produce 100,000,000 more 
bushels than the whole of South America. France 
grows about 315,000,000 bushels a year — almost 
half as much as does the United States in normal 
years; it imports about 22,000,000 bushels. 
Clearly, with strict economy enforced by war 
conditions, France can easOy furnish its own 
wheat supply without calling on outside nations. 
Austria-Hungary and Servia are similarly sit- 
uated. When we come to England, Germany, 
and Belgium, however, the conditions are differ- 
ent. The United Kingdom raises about 65,000,000 
bushels of wheat every year and imports 
217,000,000. Belgium raises 14,000,000 bushels 
and imports 49,000,000. The situation in Ger- 
many is not so acute as this, but still, with 
importations shut down, the wheat situation 
might become embarrassing. The empire raises 
149,000,000 bushels a year and imports 67,000,000 
Clearly the sudden wiping out of these importa- 
tions, while they might not produce an actual 
wheat famine, would so considerably reduce the 
food supply as to amount to a distinct military dis- 
advantage. Germany's situation is considerably 
better than that of England, but inferior to that 
of France and Russia. Russia raises all of its 
wheat and more; France raises ninety per cent.; 
Germany raises sixty per cent. On the other 
hand Great Britain and Belgium raise only about 
twenty per cent. each. On the theory that a 
nation that raises only sixty per cent, of its most 
important article of food can hardly be regarded 
as entirely self-supporting, Germany is included, 
in the classification given above, as in a more or 
less precarious position. The Germans are not 
rich enough to be guilty of much over-feeding 
and if two fifths of their ration were to be taken 
away their efficiency would be greatly impaired. 



ENGLAND ENTIRELY DEPENDENT ON 
OUTSIDE SOURCES 

From the standpoint of food supply in case 
of war, England, of course, presents the most 
interesting problem. There was a time when 
English statesmen worried Uttle over this situa- 
tion. The supremacy of England's sea power 
was regarded as a fixed, determined fact. The 
fleet was so immeasurably superior to other navies, 
and, indeed, to all of them combined, that England 
went on serenely developing a huge industrial 
state within, and depending upon other nations 
for its food. About fifteen years ago, however, 
Englishmen began to be nervous on this point; 
since then there have been periodical scares. 
The building of other formidable navies, espjecially 
that of Germany, began to cause general alarm. 
The last of these great searchings-of-heart was in 
1903. Parliament then appointed a Royal Com- 
mission, of which the Prince of Wales, the present 
king, served as chairman, to investigate the ques- 
tion. This Commission collected a large array 
of facts, most of them alarming. It found that 
the precariousness of England's food supply was 
about as black as it had been described. England 
imports four fifths of all its food. Most of it comes 
from far distant countries — from North and 
South America, British India, and Australia. 
It gets large quantities of butter, eggs, bacon, 
poultry, fruit, and potatoes, and other vegetables 
from France, Denmark, and the Baltic ports. 

A certain amount of grain comes also from 
Russian-Baltic ports — and from the Black Sea 
region. For the larger staples, however, like 
wheat and meat, England has to go several thou- 
sand miles. It always has a comparatively small 
supply of food on hand. The swiftness of the 
modern steam vessel has made any large storage 
system unnecessary. Of butter it has normally 
only a seven or ten days' supply; of cheese only 
a month's supply; of eggs — England consumes 
80,000,000 a week — only four or five weeks' 
supply. Its resources in wheat vary through 
the year; it has the highest supply in September, 
when it has enough for seventeen weeks, and the 
lowest in August, when it has enough for only sLx 
and one half weeks. England has a larger supply, 
however, than that stored up in its own larder. 
There is always an immense amount floating in 
ships — in thousands of English vessels, crowding 



EUROPE'S FOOD SUPPLY 93 

the trade routes in all parts of the world. This granaries that would hold a large reserve supply, 
usually amounts to from three to seven weeks' There are many practical objections to this pro- 
supply. An interesting fact herein disclosed is position and it has never enlisted popular approval 
that England's lowest stock on hand is reached in Most Englishmen who have had the courage to 
August — the very month in which she has gone face the situation have reached the same conclu- 
to war. The whole food situation was well sion: that there is only one way of protecting the 
summed up in a formal declaration made to the food supply, and that is the navy. Even with 
Royal Commission by the most influential mem- England in command of the sea, there would be 
bers of the wheat trade in London : "We, theun- certain difficulties in feeding the nation; without 
dersigned, concur in the opinion that, if Great this control, most people agree that the game 
Britain should become involved in a European would be fairly up. With a hostile navy blockad- 
war, the country must be prepared to see bread ing the important ports and so shutting out 
at practically famine prices." the foodships, England could undoubtedly be 

starved into submission in a few weeks. The 

THE UNITED STATES SENDS LITTLE WHEAT TO j^^ j Commission, which investigated this sub- 

ENGLAND . ^ . .u- i • %u 

ject, came to this conclusion. Ihe enormous 
From 1870 until 1902, the United States did navy which England maintains in the North Sea, 
the larger part in feeding the British Isles. We therefore, has ample justification. 
not only had a large surplus of food stuffs, but England will probably control the sea in the 
the shortness of the voyage gave us an advantage present conflict; there are other problems, how- 
over competitors. The enormous mcrease m our ever, that she wUl have to solve. Many ships 
population forces us now to keep the larger part are drawn from the mercantUe marme for the 
of our food, especially wheat, to feed our own use of the admiralty; inasmuch as there are 
stomachs. Although we are still the world's thousands of English ships, however, this prob- 
largest wheat producer, we send comparatively ably will not seriously interfere with transporta- 
little of it abroad. England now draws its sup- tion facilities. Nor does there seem much danger 
ply from Russia, Canada, the Argentine, British that the German and Austrian navies will prey 
India, and Australia. The figures for 1 911 are as to any extent upon English shipping. The days 
follows : of the privateer are over ; the steamship, involving 
PKESENT SOURCE OF ENGLAND'S WHEAT SUPPLY the difficulty of coaling, has practically made im- 
(Hundredweights) possible this old fashioned roving of the sea. 

British India 20,161,518 Nor is Germany likely to send any of her rapid 

Russia 18,106,100 cruisers to prey upon English trade; she wOl 

Argentine 14,748,600 weaken her fleet, already considerably over- 

^^^^<^^ 14,373.700 matched, by doing so. Neutrals ought not to 

,, .^ , c/ 1 suffer, especially as the Declaration of London 

United States 12,939,229 > t- j 

has settled the fact that food, unless intended 

England likewise imports two thirds of all its for military purposes — such as the feeding of 

meat. It gets a small supply fresh killed from armies and fortresses — is not contraband. Some 

Holland and Denmark and a far greater amount English ships unquestionably will be captured; 

in the shape of Uve animals from Canada and but there will be few in comparison with the de- 

the United States. Its frozen carcasses come predations that seem likely to be made on Ger- 

mainly from the Argentine and Australia. It man commerce. One consideration that especially 

usually has about one month's supply of all kinds protects England's food supply is the fact that it 

of meat on hand. is not drawn from any one country, but from five 

— the United States, Canada, Argentine, Russia, 

SEA POWER ENGLAND'S ONE SALVATION ^^^ g^j^j^j^ j,^^^ j^ ^^^^^ ^^,^^ ^^rce great trade 

The practical question that has agitated Eng- routes — the North Atlantic, the South Atlantic, 

land for many years has been: How are we to and the Mediterranean. The first has its most 

protect our food supply in case of war? Some important port in New York, the second in Buenos 

authorities have advocated the building of huge Ayres, while the third leads to Bombay and Aus- 



94 



EUROPE 



tralian depots. There seems no likelihood that 
Germany can control these three transportation 
routes, or any one of them. When the Royal 
Commission made its investigation, the Mediter- 
ranean route was the one that gave the greatest 
anxiety. The entente cordiale was then not a factor 
in European politics; and war with France was 
not an impossibUitj'. The Republic's naval 
strength in the Mediterranean, in that event, 
would have endangered such of England's food 
supply as came by way of Suez. The present 
European alignment makes this same Mediter- 
ranean route perhaps better protected than either 
of the other two routes. 

UNITED STATES AS A FOOD SOURCE IN WAR 
TIME 

With an English fleet victorious on the sea, 
therefore, the English food supply seems abund- 
antly safeguarded. In all probability, if the war 
lasts any time, the United States will largely in- 
crease its exports. Our natural position should 
make us the largest storehouse of the English- 
man's food. The route to the river Plata is 6,500 
miles; that to Bombay is 6,250 miles by the Suez 
Canal, and 10,500 bj' the Cape. New Zealand and 
Australia are 10,000 mOes away; the distance to 
American ports, however, is only 3,500 miles. 
Moreover the ships coming this short distance 
can carry more than those sailing on the other 
routes. The longer the voyage, the more coal 
the ship has to carry, and, proportionately, the 
smaller is its cargo. Inasmuch as England will 
naturally import from the places whence the food 
will come quickest and in the largest amount, 
it should naturally draw first of all upon the 
resources of the United States. It will do this 
particularly this year, as our grain crop is un- 
usually large and that of the other agricultural 
nations imusually small. 

When we look to Germany, however, the op- 
portunities for food importations do not seem so 
reassuring. In all probability German ships 
will not be able to use the North Sea. With 
both the French and the British fleets in the 
Mediterranean, there is apparently no hope of 
obtaining supplies from that source. It is even 
probable that the larger part of the mercantile 
marine which Germany has been building up at 
such enormous cost will be swept from the sea. 
That scurrying to friendly ports that marked 



AT WAR 

the first days of war will probably develop into 
little less than a stampede. Moreover, while 
the blockading of the English coast is a difficult 
problem, owing to its character and extent, the 
blockading of the German North Sea sealine 
presents comparatively few problems to a vic- 
torious fleet. Germany will find some embar- 
rassment also in the fact that she has gone to 
war with the country that furnishes the larger 
part of her additional food. This is Russia. She 
takes from the Czar's empire large quantities of 
wheat, barley, oats, and corn every year. In fact 
she imports foodstuffs from about the same 
countries as England herself. The following table, 
showing her importations of wheat, illustrates 
this point: 

Germany's importations of wheat 
(Tons) 19 1 2 

Russia 558,422 

Argentine 546,439 

Canada 269,530 

United States 446,512 

Australia 3 2 2,590 

The Germans, therefore, use the same trade 
routes as the English ships. With the English 
and French commanding the sea, however, the 
Germans can not draw much wheat from these 
sources. 

Germany's large supplies of meat 

The cutting off of these foreign supplies would 
not affect Germany to the same extent that a 
similar scarcity would embarrass England. In 
the British Isles such a calamity would mean 
starvation; in Germany it would mean a severe 
scarcity of food. For Germany still produces 
the larger part of what it eats. Although in the 
last forty years the empire, like England, has 
become a great industrial state, with the conse- 
quent shifting of the population from town to city, 
the imperial policy has still promoted agriculture. 
Agrarianism has long been a political issue. 
As part of its monarchical system, the ruling 
forces have used the powers of government to 
sustain the landlord class. The junker aristo- 
cracy has been the mainstay of the throne 
and the prevailing social system. The govern- 
ment has, therefore, protected its interests by 
placing high tariff duties upon agricultiu-al and 
meat products. As far as food is concerned the 



EUROPE'S FINANCIAL PREPARATION 



95 



empire has been in about the same position as 
England before the passage of the corn laws; 
it does not raise food enough for its own purposes, 
and has difficulties m importing it. Especial re- 
strictions have been placed upon the importation 
of meats. As a result, large supplies are grown in 
the empire itself. Germany produces almost one 
third as many cattle as does the United States — 
about 20,000,000 to our 70,000,000 — and stands 
second to the United States in the growth of hogs. 
In times of peace this protective policy has great 
disadvantages. As one result meat famines have 
become almost chronic. In recent years to supply 
the need, the municipalities have themselves 
erected slaughter houses and swineries. The in- 
creased cost of living has been an even more 
acute problem in Germany than here, and has 
figured largely in politics. All popular appeals 
for the removal of restrictions, however, have 
failed. And in times like these the policy has cer- 
tain compensations. For it has furnished Ger- 
many a large supply of meat; in all likelihood it 
can worry along for an indefinite time without 
any imports. 

A crisis of the most serious character for the 
German farmer arose in the "four years of 
gloom" from 1S96 to igoo. The competition of 



agricultural exportmg countries, such as the 
United States, Argentina, and Uruguay caused 
a drop of more than 25 per cent, in prices. Mort- 
gages increased, market value of land decreased, 
and in those four years alone the indebtedness of 
the farms increased by hundreds of millions of 
dollars. 

Irretrievable ruin faced the German agricul- 
turists and immediate steps were taken to save 
the situation. The protectionist policy was made 
more rigid, railroad rates were lowered on behalf 
of the home producer to enable him to meet 
foreign competition more successfully, govern- 
ment education of advanced agricultural methods 
was widely used, and a widespread system of 
credit in the agricultural department was or- 
ganized. 

The other three great countries, as already 
said ^France, Austria-Hungary, and Russia — 
are practically self-supporting, so that their 
provisionmg will involve no particular problem. 

Their embarrassment will come only from the 
destruction to crops that is incident to war, and 
to the removal of large masses of cultivators to 
face the cannon. No one can estimate, of course, 
to what extent these circumstances will affect the 
food situation. 



EUROPE'S FINANCIAL PREPARATION 

BY CHARLES F. SPEARE 



THREE incidents in European financial 
history since 191 1 illustrate how definitely 
the Powers have been preparing for war. 
As we look back at them we wonder why the 
world has been overwhelmed with surprise and 
terrorized by the sudden oncoming of the conflict. 
In 1905 Germany was all but mobilized against 
France. The money lords m London, Paris, 
and Vienna stepped between the rival nations 
and the Algeciras conference patched up their 
differences. Again in 191 1 Morocco was the sore 
point between Germany and France, and the 
Kaiser upset Europe by his "sword-rattling" 
speech. The affair of the Panther caused the 
British lion to growl. Germany was then much 
over-extended in all of the international money 
markets. It has been estimated that she was 
conductmg 90 per cent, of her commercial affairs 
on borrowed money. This figure is probably 



much exaggerated. But certainly she owed 
several hundred millions to Paris and nearly as 
much to London. New York was then, too, a 
large creditor and so was Russia. 

HEAVY PERSONAL TAXES IN GERMANY 

Quietly Paris began drawing down her bal- 
ances in Berlin. London and New York followed. 
German bankers were startled and made protest 
but their loans were called from all directions. 
Then they tried to borrow in those countries 
politically hostile to them and offered high rates 
of interest to attract the American market. But 
the lenders were in concert on this one point that 
no funds would be advanced without the per- 
sonal guarantee of the Kaiser that they would 
be used for "legitimate purposes"; that is, not 
against the lenders. A little later when the Ger- 
man bankers were asked by Emperor William 



96 



EUROPE AT WAR 



if they were in a condition to meet the chances 
of war they were obliged to respond in the nega- 
tive. Then came the famous command: "Gen- 
tlemen, when I next call on you I shall expect you 
to be ready." This is the first suggestion that 
war was brewing. 

Two years later rumors of war loans in Ger- 
many began to filter through the money markets 
of the Continent and Prussian bonds began to 
decline. In the midst of a congestion of invest- 
ments unparalleled in recent times, and with 
government securities in every part of the world 
lower than during this generation a huge Prussian 
loan was precipitated and it failed. The proceeds 
of this loan were, in large part, to meet the cost 
of the new military programme that had recently 
been promulgated. Subsequent to this fiasco 
there was proposed a tax on capital and incomes 
for the expenses of the army so onerous that only 
an impending war could have justified it. This 
laid an impost on all incomes of both sexes as low 
as $250 per aimum and on all fortunes from $2,500 
upward. Kings and princes were taxed in the 
same ratio as clerks and small storekeepers. The 
Kaiser on his personal fortune of $35,000,000 
had to pay a tax of $500,000, and on his income of 
$3,500,000, an 8 per cent, tax of $440,000. So 
his contribution to the war chest was nearly 
$1,000,000. The Krupps are said to have been 
assessed $3,000,000. 

Economists agree that a tax on capital is a 
dangerous financial expedient and only war- 
ranted by extreme conditions. France, Spain, 
and Austria have all tried it in revolutionary 
times. That Germany should have come to it 
as recently as last January, when the law went 
into effect, was the second incident plainly show- 
ing that one portion of Europe, at least, was man- 
euvering for war. 

THE FRENCH BOND ISStJE 

The third suggestion of war came from Paris. 
The new military service laws in France were 
favorably reported in July, 1913, about a week 
after similar enactments had been made in Ger- 
many. The French Cabinet was at its wit's 
end how to finance the tremendous new military 
budget, as investment markets were sluggish 
and the portfolios of Paris bankers were filled 
with the I. O. U's of the Balkan states and with 
rapidly depreciating securitier of Mexico, Brazil, 



and Argentina. The utter inability of Paris 
to float a government loan of $200,000,000 to 
$250,000,000 was ob'vious. Economic conditions 
ruling then were sufficient without the Socialists' 
opposition to defeat such a flotation. Pending 
at that time in Europe were loans aggregating 
$1,500,000,000. Of those assigned to Paris 
alone 50 per cent, or $350,000,000, were to repair 
the ravages of war in the Balkans or to augment 
armaments on the Continent. 

It was only when in her desperation Paris, 
by government order, closed her doors to all 
foreign loans, thus throwing away her proud title 
of "bankers of the nations" held since the Boer 
war, that she was able to meet her pressing do- 
mestic needs. The Viviani Ministry practically 
duplicated the plan of its predecessor in proposing 
an issue of $360,000,000 3I per cent, bonds, re- 
deemable in twenty-five years in distinction to 
the perpetual 3 per cent, rentes, and subject to a 
4 per cent, income tax. I was in Paris when 
preparations for this loan were going on and found 
there none of the enthusiasm for it that I had 
witnessed before the "wickets" of the great 
credit banks of France when other government 
loans were being offered. It has since been an- 
nounced that the loan was many times o\'ersub- 
scribed; but it appears likely that the government 
gave strong underwriting support. The French 
public was not keen to pay additional war taxes. 

EXPEDIENTS OF OTHER NATIONS 

While Germany and France have been pre- 
paring against the day when ambassadors should 
be peremptorily dismissed, other members of 
European alliances have not failed to see the 
trend of events and be forehanded. In June, a 
year ago, we read what seemed then to be bluster- 
ing words from the Belgian Premier, but which 
were instead prophetic. In announcing the gov- 
ernment's intention to raise $62,800,000 for mil- 
itary expenses he said : " We do not intend meekly 
to supply again a battleground for Europe. In 
the event of the breaking out of war Antwerp will 
be found an impregnable fortress." 

Onlya fortnight before the Archduke of Austria- 
Hungary was assassinated, the Russian Minister 
of Finance had informed the Budget Committee 
of the Duma that his country in the next five 
years must spend $3,700,000,000 for the army and 
na\y. This year's budget for military and naval 



EUROPE'S FINANCIAL PREPARATIONS 



97 



defense was $500,000,000. In the period since 
1908 approximately $2,600,000,000 has been ex- 
pended for similar purposes. This does not 
include the cost of those strategic railroads to 
the German frontier, of which Russia is so much 
in need, to meet the capacity of the Germans who 
have three times as many railway lines available 
for mobilization purposes as has the Czar. Aus- 
tria has a mobilization capacity at the Russian 
frontier twice as great as that of her adversary. 

As we know, Great Britain has been building 
dreadnoughts and maintaining her balance of 
naval power, out of the pockets of the British 
tax-payers who have been squeezed a little harder 
each year and have cursed a little louder at the 
unfairness of imposts on income. 

Not so palpable a war measure as the loans 
described has been the bolstering up of the gold 
reserves of the great European banks in the last 
three years. There was some cause for this 
apart from financial strategy working with mil- 
itarism. When it was explained as an economic 
necessity to meet the new competition for gold 
by India, China, and South America the world at 
large let it go at that. There were times even 
then when it was difficult to understand why 
Paris was paying such a price for American 
gold when she had the largest hoard of it in the 
Bank of France's history, or why the yellow bars 
took such circuitous routes as they did in going 
from New York to Berlin. 

In consonance, therefore, with loans for war 
has been the addition to the gold reserves of 
Continental Europe. These are now $500,000,000 
greater than in 191 1 when the Kaiser commanded 
his bankers to prepare. A large percentage of 
this gain has taken place in the past eighteen 
months. 

So far as is known Germany is the only one of 
the nations at war that has a specific war fund. 
The famous fortress at Spandau is said to contain 
$30,000,000 in gold to be employed solely for 
war's needs. This would not finance the routine 
requirements of an army such as the German 
Empire can put in the field for more than a fort- 
night; but its instant availability in case of un- 
expected attack would make it of double value. 

EMERGENCY MEASURES 

Governments, like corporations and indi- 
viduals, have a way of anticipating loans and of 



creating floating debts against them so the pro- 
ceeds are absorbed in paying off old bills and not 
in estabhshing reserves against future require- 
ments. Undoubtedly a large portion of the 
capital secured by Europe in recent years for 
naval and military purposes has by this time 
been translated into the fixed forms of battleships, 
fortresses, cannon, guns, aeroplanes and a 
multitude of minor agencies through which 
troops are mobilized and cared for when in active 
service. Even before England declared war on 
Germany the House of Commons had voted her 
$525,000,000 for "emergency purposes," and two 
days later $500,000,000 more was granted by the 
British Parliament. These two items increased 
the national debt by about 28 per cent. The 
first of seventy-seven emergency bills authorized 
by the Reichstag, — immediately after war on 
Russia, France, and England was declared, — was 
for a loan of $1,325,000,000, an amount which, 
in itself exceeded by 10 per cent, the existing 
debt of Germany and added 30 per cent, to the 
outstanding debt of the German Empire. France 
would Uke to borrow $200,000,000 in this 
country, but the State Department has indicated 
that it would not be good politics to encourage 
this desire. A credit of $540,000,000 as a war fund 
has been authorized by the French State Council. 

WHO WILL BEAE THE BURDENS 

Obviously the costs of war must be borne by 
the man with property or a going business and 
by the wage-earner. The latter can adjust his 
month-to-month expenses so that the tax on him 
will be relatively small as war chests in war time 
are usuall)' lined by receipts from taxes on spirits, 
beer, tobacco, tea, coffee, and other non-essentials, 
as well as on documents and contracts with which 
the man with small income has little to do. Ger- 
many is already proposing a severe tax on all 
property in excess of $7,500,000. Another unique 
German scheme which can hardly be credited is 
to commandeer the savings-bank deposits of the 
Empire, estimated to be worth $4,000,000,000, 
and use them as a war fund, giving depositors 
government interest-bearing script in payment. 
This would obviate the necessity of a loan, but it 
might be found difficult for the banks to produce 
that amount of currency on demand. In order 
to do so they would have to liquidate their se- 
curities. This is impossible in these times of 



98 



EUROPE 



"moratoria" and closed stock exchanges. The 
savings-bank and postal deposits of the fighting 
nations are about $9,cx50,ooo,ooo. 

To fight the Boers, England issued 
$1,000,000,000 in consols. She has recently been 
buying back at 70 some of the bonds which she 
placed at a premium. Even this huge sum was 
not sufficient and extra taxes had to be imposed. 
In the Russo-Japanese war Japan, between March 
and November, 1905, issued $425,000,000 in war 
loans, of which London took $157,500,000; New 
York, $141,500,000; Berlin $66,000,000 and 
Paris $60,000,000. It is an interesting fact that 
Japan was able to float a loan at a lower interest 
rate at the end of the war which had enormously 
Increased her national debt and placed a mort- 
gage on her remunerative government tobacco 
monopoly, than when she first started to fight 
Russia. In the same war Russian attempts at 
loans were failures as they always seemed un- 
happily to coincide with some reverse in Man- 
churia or on the seas. The Balkan AlUes and 
Turkey have so far failed to pay the indebtedness 
they incurred in the bloody wars of 191 2-13. 
Before Austria gave her ultimatum to Servia 
both countries were prostrated industrially and 
financially. 

War always brings out the fact that the re- 
sources of individuals are far greater than sus- 
pected and that wonderful vitality underlies 
what may seem impoverished surfaces. Witness 
Mexico in the past two years, ridden by revolu- 
tion, 60 per cent, of her transportation system 
out of comnaission, all but one of her eastern 
ports and gateways for commerce closed, and 
agriculture and mining abandoned in the northern 
states, and still supporting a great army with 
every money market of the world opposed to her. 
Bismarck never believed that France could pay 
the $1,000,000,000 indemnity in 1870; but from 
every stocking in the empire came a tithe and 
the debt was Uquidated in a few months. If the 
figures presented by the American Society for 
Thrift are approximately correct, the people of 
this country spend each year for mtoxicants, 
soft drinks, tobacco, candy, chewing gum, auto- 
mobiles, theatres, moving pictures and other 
extravagances the sum of $4,000,000,000. This 
is about what diSerent economists have reckoned 
to be the total cost of the present European war. 
Europeans are not so careless of their money as 



AT WAR 

Americans, but they are not 50 per cent, more 
thrifty than we. The population of the nations en- 
gaged in war is four times that of the United States. 
So, if we estimate that 25 per cent, of all males 
may be drawn into the struggle and the earning 
capacity of another 25 per cent, be affected by it 
we can see where enforced economy would supply 
the reserves for many war bflls. 

The cost of war does not stop with the countries 
waging it. There is now before the Congress at 
Washington a series of taxation measures to re- 
lieve the United States from embarrassment due 
to the sudden stop to customs revenues. Of our 
import trade of $1,850,000,000 as much as 
$500,000,000 is with nations directly or closely 
invoh'ed in the war. A large part of this com- 
merce is in the highest tariff-yielding articles. 
It is beHeved, therefore, that taxes wiU have to be 
imposed on American tax-payers to the amount 
of $100,000,000 as a minimum to help defray the 
cost of the war abroad. 

The public debt of the countries at war and the 

debt per capita follows: 

Public debt. Debt per 
capita. 

France $6,283,000,000 $157 

United Kingdom 3,500,000,000 80 

Russia 4,550,000,000 30 

Belgium 760,000,000 100 

Germany, including Prussia 5,000,000,000 75 

Austria-Hungary 3,750,000,000 80 

The wealth of these same countries, to be 
drawn on to meet the cost of war, according to 
latest figures, is: 

National Wealth per 

wealth. capita. 

France $65,000,000,000 $1,625 

United Kingdom 80,000,000,000 1,800 

Russia 40,000,000,000 250 

Belgium 9,000,000,000 1,23s 

Germany, including Prussia 60,500,000,000 930 

Austria-Hungary 25,000,000,000 500 

The nations of the Triple Entente have an 
aggregate wealth of $194,000,000,000 to which 
may be added the moral support of Italy and Port- 
ugal with a combined wealth of $22,500,000,000. 
The members of the Triple Alliance, or Dual 
Alliance, as it turns out to be, have a national 
reserve wealth behind them of $85,500,000,000. 
But, as money power has, in this instance, failed to 
prevent war, so it may be ineffective in bringing 
war's successes. 



99 



FINANCIAL STATISTICS 

A FINANCIAL COMPARISON OF THE POWERS AT WAR 
IN MILLIONS OF DOLLARS 



Germany 

Austria-Hungary 

Russia 

France 

Servia 

Great Britain 

Belgium 

Japan 

Portugal 

Montenegro 



Wealth 



60,500 
25,000 
40,000 
65,000 

80,000 
9,000 

2,500 



National Debt 



1,200 
3.972 
4,423 
6,510 

132 
3,S8I 

742 
1,247 

637 
a2 



Annual Revenue Army Budgets 



1,027 

1,085 

1,779 

1,07s 

26 

972 

161 

293 

8S 



26s 

125 

389 

287 

1 

141 

20 

so 

II 



Navy Budgets 



115 

30 

121 

104 



49 



Exports 



Imports 



2,132 
SSS 
735 

1,281 
22?, 

2.371 
753 
261 

39 



2,545 
722 

533 

1,535 

22g 

3,624 

899 

308 

75 



a Figures of igi2 



PERSONAGES IN THE WAR 



THE KAISER — A SELF DRAWN PORTRAIT 



AS A result of my reading of history, I 
have pledged myself never to strive 
after an empty world-rule. For what 
has become of the so-called world-empires? 
Alexander the Great, Napoleon, all the great 
heroes of war swam in blood, and left behind 
them subjugated nations which rose on the first 
opportunity and brought their empires to ruin. 
The world-empire that I have dreamed of would 
consist in this: that, above all, the newly- 
created German Empire should on every side 
enjoy the most absolute confidence as a tranquil, 
honorable, peaceful neighbor, and that if history 
should one day tell of a German world-empire, or 
of a Hohenzollem world-rule, it should not have 
been based on conquests with the sword, but on 
the mutual trust of nations striving toward the 
same goal." 

Despite the fact that he pointed out the futility 
of the great conquerors, the Kaiser made it plain 
that Germany's world-power aspirations were not 
to be balked by a peace-at-any-price policy. At 
the laimching of the warship Wiltelsbach, he an- 
nounced: "The ocean teaches us that on its waves 
and on its most distant shores no great decision 
can any longer be taken without Germany and 
•without the German Emperor. I do not think that 
it was in order to allow themselves to be excluded 
from big foreign affairs that, thirty years ago, 
our people, led by their princes, conquered and 
shed their blood. Were the German people to 
let themselves be treated thus, it would be, and 
forever, the end of their world-power; and I do 
not mean that that shall ever cease. To employ, 
in order to prevent it, the suitable means, if need 
be extreme means, is my duty and my highest 
privilege." 

Throughout his speeches three ideas appear 
consistently and continuously: the ambition for 
world-power, for ships and a navy to defend them; 
the belief in the German army by its preponder- 
ance and preparedness as the guarantor of 
Europe's peace; and the divine right and the in- 
fallibility of the Hohenzollerns. 



WORLD-POWER 

Soon after ascending the throne the Kaiser 
said: 

"The ancestor for whom I have the most liking, 
and who always shone before me as an example in 
my youth, was the Great Elector." He so admired 
this particular ancestor because the Great Elector 
was the first Hohenzollern who saw the importance 
of promoting trade and industry, acquiring colon- 
ies, shipping by which to trade with them, and a 
navy to defend the shipping. This poUcy, which 
languished for a long time, has been thoroughly 
revised and enlarged by William II. As far back 
as 1896 the Kaiser himself said at Berhn: 

"The German Empire becomes a world-empire. 
Everywhere in the farthest parts of the earth live 
thousands of our fellow-countrymen. German 
subjects, German knowledge, German industry 
cross the ocean. The value of German goods on the 
seas amounts to thousands of millions of marks. 
On you, gentlemen, devolves the serious duty of 
helping me to knit firmly this greater German 
Empire to the Empire at home." 

At Aix, in 1902, in comparing the Holy Roman 
Empire with the present German Empire, he said: 

" Now another Empire has arisen. The German 
people has once more an Emperor of its own 
choice, with the sword on the field of battle has 
the crown been won, and the imperial flag flutters 
high in the breeze. But the tasks of the new 
Empire are different: confined within its borders, 
it has to steel itself anew for the work it has to do, 
and which it could not achieve in the Middle Ages. 
We have to live so that the Empire, still young, 
becomes from year to year stronger in itself, while 
confidence in it strengthens on all sides. The 
powerful German army guarantees the peace of 
Europe. In accord with the German character we 
confine ourselves externally in order to be uncon- 
fined internally. Far stretches our speech over the 
ocean, far the flight of our science and exploration; 
no work in the domain of new discovery, no scien- 
tific idea but is first tested by us and then adopted 



THE KAISER 



lOI 



by other nations. This is the world-rule the Ger- 
man spirit strives for." 

Despite the guarantee of peace which the power 
of the German army offered, William II did not 
neglect to warn his own people and others that 
peace might be disturbed. He said to the chief 
burgomaster of Karlsruhe in 1904, when Japan 
and Russia were at war: 

"I hope our peace will not be disturbed and that 
the events that are now happening will open our 
eyes, steel our courage, and find us united, if it 
should be necessary for us to intervene in world- 
policy." 

"Imperial power means sea power and sea pow- 
er and imperial power are dependent on each 
other." . . . "Our future lies on the water." 

. . . "The trident should be in our hand." 

. . . "We stand under the star of com- 
merce." 

"We demand our place in the sun." 

These phrases contain the essence of the doc- 
trine which the Emperor enlarged in many places 
as, for example, at Hamburg in 1899: 

"A strong German fleet," he said, "is a thing 
of which we stand in bitter need." And he con- 
tinued: "In Hamburg especially one can under- 
stand how necessary is a powerful protection for 
German interests abroad. If we look around us 
we see how greatly the aspect of the world has 
altered in recent years. Old-world empires pass 
away and new ones begin to arise. Nations 
suddenly appear before the peoples and compete 
with them, nations of whom a little before the 
ordinary man had been hardly aware. Products 
which bring about radical changes in the domain 
of international relations as well as in the political 
economy of the people, and which in old times 
took hundreds of years to ripen, come to maturity 
in a few months. The result is that the tasks of 
our German Empire and people have grown to 
enormous proportions and demand of me and my 
Government unusual and great efforts, which can 
then only be crowned with success when, united 
and decided, without respect to party, Germans 
stand behind us. Our people, moreover, must re- 
solve to make some sacrifice. Above all they must 
put aside their endeavor to seek the excellent 
through the ever more sharply contrasted party 
factions. They must cease to put party above the 
welfare of the whole. They must put a curb on 
their ancient and inherited weakness — to subject 



everything to the most unlicensed criticism; and 
they must stop at the point where their most vital 
interests become concerned. For it is precisely 
these political sins which revenge themselves so 
deeply on our sea interests and our fleet. Had 
the strengthening of the fleet not been refused me 
during the past eight years of my government, 
notwithstanding all appeals and warnings — and 
not without contumely and abuse for my person — 
how differently could we not have promoted our 
growing trade and our interests beyond the sea!" 

When the Kaiser ascended the throne the Ger- 
man fleet amounted to practically nothing. De- 
spite the Kaiser's ever active advocacy, the 
Reichstag would not vote large naval appropria- 
tions. The present navy really began with the 
appointment of Admiral von Tirpitz as Minister 
of Marine in 1899. Now the German .Navy is 
second only to that of Great Britain. Its crea- 
tion has been the main bone of contention between 
the English and German people. These relations 
the Kaiser discussed in 1908, in his famous Daily 
Mail interview, as follows: 

"You English," he said, "are mad, mad, mad 
as March hares. What has come over you that you 
are so completely given over to suspicions quite 
unworthy of a great nation? What more can I do 
than I have done? I declared with all the em- 
phasis at my command, in my speech at Guildhall, 
that my heart is set upon peace, and that it is one 
of my dearest wishes to live on the best of terms 
with England. Have I ever been false to my world? 
Falsehood and prevarication are alien to my na- 
ture. My actions ought to speak for themselves, 
but you listen not to them but to those who misin- 
terpret and distort them. That is a personal 
insult which I feel and resent. To be forever 
misjudged, to have my repeated offers of friend- 
ship weighed and scrutinized with jealous, mis- 
trustful eyes, taxes my patience severely. I have 
said time after time that I am a friend of England, 
and your Press — or at least a considerable section 
of it — bids the people of England refuse my 
proffered hand, and insinuates that the other 
holds a dagger. How can I convince a nation 
against its will?" 

"I repeat," continued His Majesty, "that I 
am the friend of England, but you make things 
difficult for me. My task is not of the easiest. 
The prevailing sentiment among large sections of 
the middle and lower classes of my own people is 



I02 



EUROPE AT WAR 



not friendly to England. I am, therefore, so to 
speak, in a minority in my own land, but it is a 
minority of the best elements, just as it is in Eng- 
land with respect to Germany. That is another 
reason why I resent your refusal to accept my 
pledged word that I am the friend of England. I 
strive without ceasing to improve relations, and 
you retort that I am your arch-enemy. You make 
it very hard for me. Why is it?" 

Thereupon the interviewer ventured to remind 
His Majesty that not England alone but the whole 
of Europe had viewed with disapproval the action 
of Germany in allowing the German consul to 
return from Tangier to Fez, and in anticipating 
the joint action of France and Spain by suggesting 
to the Powers that the time had come for Europe 
to recognize Mulai Hafid as the new Sultan of 
Morocco. 

His Majesty made a gesture of impatience. 
"Yes," he said, "that is an excellent ex- 
ample of the way in which German action is 
misrepresented. Fir'st, then, as regards the jour- 
ney of Dr. Vassel. The German Government, in 
sending Dr. Vassel back to his post at Fez, was only 
guided by the wish that he should look after the 
private interests of German subjects in that city, 
who cried for help and protection after the long 
absence of a consular representative. And why 
not send him? Are those who charge Germany 
with having stolen a march on the other Powers 
aware that the French consular representative had 
already been in Fez for several months when Dr. 
Vassel set out? Then, as to the recognition of 
Mulai Hafid. The Press of Europe has complain- 
ed with much acerbity that Germany ought not 
to have suggested his recognition until he had 
notified to Europe his full acceptance of the Act of 
Algeciras, as being binding upon him as Sultan of 
Morocco and successor of his brother. My answer 
is that Mulai Hafid notified the Powers to that 
effect weeks agb, before the decisive battle was 
fought. He sent, as far back as the middle of last 
July, an identical communication to the govern- 
ments of Germany, France, and Great Britain, 
containing an expUcit acknowledgment that he 
was prepared to recognize all the obligations 
toward Europe which were incurred by Abdul 
Aziz during his Sultanate. The German Govern- 
ment interpreted that communication as a final 
and authoritative expression of Mulai Hafid's 
intentions, and therefore it considered that there 



was no reason to wait until he had sent a second 
communication before recognizing him as the de 
facto Sultan of Morocco, who had succeeded to his 
brother's throne by right of victory in the field." 
The interviewer suggested to His Majesty that 
an important and influential section of the Ger- 
man Press had placed a very different interpreta 
tion upon the action of the German Government, 
and, in fact, had given it their effusive appro- 
bation precisely because they saw in it a strong 
act instead of mere words, and a decisive indica- 
tion that Germany was once more about to 
intervene in the shaping of events in Morocco. 
" There are mischief makers, " repUed the Emperor 
"in both countries. I will not attempt to weigh 
their relative capacity for misrepresentation. But 
the facts are as I have stated. There has been 
nothing in Germany's recent action with regard 
to Morocco which runs contrary to the explicit 
declaration of my love of peace which I made both 
at Guildhall and in my latest speech at Strassburg. 
His Majesty then reverted to the subject 
uppermost in his mind — his proved friendship for 
England. "I have referred," he said, "to the 
speeches in which I have done all that a sov- 
ereign can to proclaim my good will. But as 
actions speak louder than words, let me also 
refer to my acts. It is commonly believed in 
England that throughout the South African War 
Germany was hostile to her. German opinion 
undoubtedly was hostile — bitterly hostile. The 
Press was hostile; private opinion was hostile. 
But what of official Germany? Let my critics ask 
themselves what brought to a sudden stop, and, 
indeed, to absolute coUapse, the European tour 
of the Boer delegates who were striving to obtain 
European intervention? They were feted in 
HoUand; France gave them a rapturous welcome. 
They wished to come to Berlin, where the German 
people would have crowned them with flowers. 
But when they asked me to receive them — I 
refused. The agitation immediately died away, 
and the delegation returned, empty-handed. Was 
that, I ask, the action of a secret enemy? 

"Again, when the struggle was at its height, 
the German Government wUs invited by the 
governments of France and Russia to join with 
them m calling upon England to put an end to the 
war. The moment had come, they said, not only 
to save the Boer republics, but also to humiliate 
England to the dust. What was my reply? I 



THE KAISER 



103 



said that so far from Germany joining in anj' 
concerted European action to put pressure upon 
England and bring about her downfall, Germany 
would always keep aloof from politics that could 
bring her into complications with a sea power like 
England. Posterity vA]l one day read the exact 
terms of the telegram — now in the archives of 
Windsor Castle — in which I informed the Sover- 
eign of England of the answer I had returned to 
the Powers which then sought to compass her fall. 
Englishmen who now insult me by doubting my 
word should know what were my actions in the 
hour of their adversity. 

"Nor was that all. Just at the time of your 
Black Week, in the December of i8gg, when 
disasters followed one another in rapid succession, 
I received a letter from Queen Victoria^ my revered 
grandmother, written in sorrow and afHiction, and 
bearing manifest traces of the anxieties which 
were preying upon her mind and health. I at 
once returned a sympathetic reply. Nay, I did 
more. I bade one of my oflScers procure for me 
as exact an account as he could obtain of the num- 
ber of combatants in South Africa on both sides, 
and of the actual position of the opposing forces. 
With the figures before me, I worked out what 
I considered to be the best plan of campaign 
under the circumstances, and submitted it to my 
General Staff for their criticism. Then I dis- 
patched it to England, and that document, like- 
wise, is among the state papers at Windsor Castle, 
awaiting the serenely impartial verdict of history. 
And, as a matter of curious coincidence, let me add 
that the plan which I formulated ran very much 
on the same lines as that which was actually 
adopted by Lord Roberts and carried by him into 
successful operation. Was that, I repeat, the act 
of one who wished England ill? Let Englishmen 
be just and say! 

"But, you will say, what of the German Navy? 
Surely that is a menace to England! Against 
whom but England are my squadrons being pre- 
pared? If England is not in the minds of those 
Germans whojare bent on creating a powerful fleet, 
why is Germany asked to consent to such new and 
heavy burdens of taxation? My answer is clear. 
Germany is a young and growing Empire. She 
has a world-wide commerce, which is rapidly ex- 
panding, and to which the legitimate ambition 
of patriotic Germans refuses to assign any bounds. 
Germany must have a powerful fleet to protect 



that commerce and her manifold interests in even 
the most distant seas. She expects those interests 
to go on growing, and she must be able to champ- 
ion them manfully in any quarter of the globe. 
Germany looks ahead. Her horizons stretch far 
away. She must be prepared for any eventuali- 
ties in the Far East. Who can foresee what may 
take place in the Pacific in the days to come — 
days not so distant as some believe, but days, at 
any rate, for which all European Powers with Far 
Eastern interests ought steadily to prepare? 
Look at the accomplished rise of Japan; think 
of the possible national awakening of China; 
and then judge of the vast problems of the Pacific. 
Only those Powers which have great navies will 
be listened to with respect when the future of the 
Pacific comes to be solved; and if for that reason 
only Germany must have a powerful fleet. It may 
even be that England herself will be glad that 
Germany has a fleet when they speak together on 
the same side in the great debates of the future." 

The Chancellor von Biilow admitted in the 
Reichstag that the Kaiser's version of the war 
plan was not quite accurate, but there is no doubt 
that the German people were bitterly hostile to 
England, a hostility which was not at all lessened 
when English warships seized German sliips along 
the African coast. England apologized for the 
act, but that did not satisfy German feeling and 
when Admiral von Tirpitz presented a bigger 
naval programme in 1900 than had ever been 
presented before, the hitherto parsimonious 
Reichstag suddenly became generous toward the 
navy. The new law provided for the first time a 
high-seas battle fleet, and the accompanying 
memorandum stated: 

"To protect Germany's sea trade and colonies, 
in the existing circumstances, there is only one 
means: Germany must have a battle fleet so 
strong that, even for the adversary with the 
greatest sea-power, a war against it would in- 
volve such dangers as to imperil its position in 
the world." 

As much as the Kaiser loves his navy, the army 
is still more dear to him. "The soldier and the 
army," he said, in 1891, paraphrasing Bismarck's 
famous "blood and iron" epigram, "not parlia- 
mentary majorities and decisions, have welded 
together the German Empire. My confidence is 
in the army — as my grandfather said at Coblenz: 
'These are the gentlemen on whom I can rely.' " 



I04 



EUROPE AT WAR 



At the completion of the first ten years of his 
reign he addressed his bodyguards: 

"The most important legacy left me by my 
grandfather and father is the army, and with joy 
and pride have I accepted it. To the army my 
first decree was issued on ascending the throne. 
To the army I now again address myself on en- 
tering upon the second decennium of my reign. 

"Rarely, I believe, has so trying a time passed 
over the head of a ruler as over mine during these 
last ten years — I, who saw my grandfather and 
father die, to my deep sorrow, within so short a 
space of time. With grave anxiety I placed the 
crown upon my head. Everywhere I met doubt, 
and the whole world misjudged me. But one had 
confidence in me; but one believed in me — that 
was the army. And relying upon the army, and 
trusting in God, I began my reign, knowing well 
that the army is the main tower of strength for my 
country, the main pillar supporting the Prussian 
throne, to which Godin His wisdom had called me. " 

On January i, igoo, the Kaiser addressed the 
assembled corps of officers: 

"The first day of the new century sees our 
army — that is, our nation in arms— grouped 
around their banners, bending the knee to the 
Lord of hosts. And truly, if anybody have special 
cause to bend down before God, it is our army. 

"A glance at our flags here suffices for ex- 
planation, for they embody our history. How 
did the dawn of the past century find our army? 

"The glorious soldiers of Frederick the Great 
had fallen asleep on their laurels, ossified in the 
trivial details of a senseless, antiquated drill ; led 
by superannuated, unready, and unwarlike gen- 
erals; their officers no longer used to serious work, 
and degenerated by luxury, sloth, and blind self- 
glorification. In a word, the army no longer 
sufficed for its task. It had forgotten it. Severe 
was the punishment meted out to it by Heaven, 
a punishment which likewise chastised our people. 
Thrown into the dust were we. Frederick's fame 
paled, and his glorious banners were broken. In 
the seven long years of our hard servitude God 
taught our people to gather new strength. Under 
the iron pressure of the insolent conqueror's heel, 
our people in bitter travail of spirit conceived the 
high thought that it is the greatest honor to de- 
vote life and property in military service to the 
fatherland. 



"My great-grandfather gave form and sub- 
stance to this conception. New laurels crowned 
the new-born army and its banners. But it was 
through my grandfather, our great, our dead 
Emperor, that general military service became 
a full, a living reality. In quiet, persistent labor 
he drafted his system of reorganization, out of 
which, despite all opposition which misapprehen- 
sion caused, grew our army of to-day. Victorious 
campaigns, however, crowned his labors in un- 
expected fulness. 

"His spirit pervaded the rank and file of his 
armies, and his trust in God led them on to 
matchless victories. With this, his own creation, 
he at length drew together again the tribes of Ger- 
many, and he gave us back longed-for German 
unity. To him we owe it that through this army 
the German Empire, honored by all, once more 
occupies its destined and appropriate position 
in the council of nations. It is your part, gentle- 
men, to manifest during the new century the old 
qualities by which our sires have made the army 
great and invincible — simplicity and plainness in 
your style of li\ing, absolute devotion to the 
service of the King, fullest utilization of all your 
strength and gifts, both of body and soul, in 
ceaseless toil for the development and drilling of 
our troops. 

"And as my grandfather did for the army, so, 
too, I mean to continue for my navy, in spite of 
all discouragement and misconceptions, the work 
of development, in order that the navy shall be, 
side by side vdtii mj^ army, of equal power and 
strength, and thus achieve for the German Em- 
pire at home and abroad that position which we 
as yet have not attained. 

"Jointly with both I hope to be one day in con- 
dition, trusting fully in the aid of God, to realize 
the saying of Frederick William I : ' H one wishes 
to decide something in thisnvorld, it is not the pen 
alone that will do it if unsupported by the power 
of the sword. ' " 

Even on his many peace trips from capital to 
capital, the Kaiser almost always gives as an 
example of the friendliness between Germany and 
the country in which he is visiting, some joint 
accion of their armies. In England, for example, 
he reminds his hearers: 

"At Malplaquet and Waterloo, Prussian and 
British blood has been spilled in a common cause." 

In Russia: 



THE KAISER 



loS 



"We are carried back to the days when my 
grandfather, now resting in God, but then a young 
oificer, received before the enemy, on the battle- 
field, the Order of St. George, and won in the rain 
of bullets the chieftaincy of the Kalnga Regiment 
(conferred by Czar Alexander I on William I of 
Prussia). I remind you of these facts in order 
to drink to the glorious and joint reminiscences 
and traditions of the Russian and the Prussian 
armies. I drink to those who, in patriotic and 
heroic defence of their country, fought at Boro- 
dino, who with us bled at the victorious battles 
of Areis-sur-Aube and Brienne. I drink to the 
brave defenders of Sebastopol and the dauntless 
fighters of Plevna." 

On the Kaiser's famous visit to Palestine in 1898 
he made a speech at the tomb of the Sultan Saladin 
in which appeared some sentences which caused 
much comment then, and may be well remembered 
now. 

"Deeply moved by this imposing spectacle 
and likewise by the consciousness of standing on 
the spot where held sway one of the most chival- 
rous rulers of all times, the great Sultan Saladin, 
a knight sans peur el sans reproche, who often 
taught his adversaries the right conception of 
knighthood, I seize with joy the opportunity 
to render thanks, above all, to the Sultan 
Abdul Hamid for his hospitaUty. May the 
Sultan rest assured, and also the three hundred 
million Mohammedans scattered over the globe 
and revering him, their caliph, that the Ger- 
man Emperor will be and remain at all times 
their friend." 

At another time in Austria he said: 

"My people and my army keep steadfast and 
true to the federated compact concluded between 
us, and the army is fully conscious of the fact that 
to preserve the peace and its blessings for our 
countries it must maintain it and would fight, 
shoulder to shoulder, with the brave Austro- 
Hungarian army, if that should be the will of 
Providence." 

And again, in 1910, the Kaiser referred to his 
action two years previous in sustaining Austria- 
Hungary in its annexation of Bosnia and Herze- 
govina, against Russia's protest, as "the action 
of an ally in taking his stand in shining armor at 
a grave moment by the side of your most gracious 
sovereign." 

At his silver wedding anniversary, in 1906, he 



said again: "My first and last care is for my 
fighting forces on land and sea." 

DIVINE RIGHT 

In March, 1890, in a speech of the Kaiser's to 
the men at Brandenburg, occurred this passage: 

"I look upon the people and nation handed on 
to me as a responsibility conferred upon me by 
God, and that it is, as is written in the Bible, my 
duty to increase this heritage, for which one day 
I shall be called upon to give an account; those 
who try to interfere with my task I shall crush." 

A few months later he voiced the same senti- 
ments in these words: 

"It is a tradition of our House, that we, the 
Hohenzollerns, regard ourselves as appointed by 
God to govern and to lead the people, whom it is 
given us to rule, for their well-being and the ad- 
vancement of their material and intellectual 
interests." 

Four years later, at Konigsberg, the ancient 
crowning place of the Prussian kings, William II 
said: 

"The successor (referring to himself) of him 
who of his own right was sovereign prince in Prus- 
sia will follow the same path as his great ancestor; 
as formerly the first King (of Prussia) said, 'My 
crown is born with me,' and as his greater son 
(the Great Elector) gave his authority the stabili- 
ty of a rock of bronze, so I, too, like my imperial 
grandfather, represent the kingship by God's 
grace." 

Again, in 1897, the same idea crops up in his 
speech about his grandfather at Coblenz: 

"He left Coblenz to ascend the throne as the 
selected instrument of the Lord he always regarded 
himself to be. For us all, and above all for us 
princes, he raised once more aloft and lent lustrous 
beams to a jewel which we should hold high and 
holy — that is the kingship by God's grace, the 
kingship with its onerous duties, its never-ending, 
ever-continuing trouble and labor, with its fear- 
ful responsibility to the Creator alone, from which 
no human being, no minister, no parliament, no 
people can release the prince." 

Again within the last few years at Konigsberg 
he reiterated his belief: 

"Here my grandfather," he said, "placed, by 
his own right, the crown of the Kings of Prussia 
on his head, once again laying stress upon the 
fact that it was conferred upon him by the grace 



io6 



EUROPE AT WAR 



of God alone, not by Parliament, by meetings of 
the people, or by popular decisions; and that he 
considered himself the chosen instrument of 
Heaven and as such performed his duties as regent 
and as ruler. Considering myself as an instrument 
of the Lord, without being misled by the \dews 
and opinions of the day, I go my way which is 
devoted solely and alone to the prosperity and 
peaceful development of our Fatherland." 

The Kaiser is a very devout Christian. He of- 
ten impresses it on his army that without Chris- 
tianity no man can be a good soldier. Whenever 
he is on board his yacht, the Eohenzollern, on 
Sunday he conducts services himself. In 1899, 
when his troops were in China at the time of the 
Boxer uprising, he preached the following sermon : 

"Text: 2 Mos. 17th chapt. nth verse: But 
as long as Moses held up his hands, praying, 
Israel prevailed; but when he lowered his hands, 
Amalek prevailed. Amen." 

"An imposing picture it is which to-day's text 
presents to our souls. There is Israel, making its 
way through the desert, coming from the Red Sea 
and on toward Mount Sinai. But of a sudden 
the heathen Amalekite people stop their progress, 
and a battle ensues. Joshua leads the young men 
of Israel into the fray; swords rattle and meet, 
anda hotly contested, bloody struggle sets in, down 
in the vale of Rephidim. But see, while the battle 
moves hither and thither, those devout men of 
God, Moses, Aaron, and Hur, climb up the moun- 
tain-side and stretch out their hands toward 
Heaven; they pray. Below in the valley the 
warring throng; up on the mountain the praying 
three. That is the warlike picture of our text. 

"And who to-day does not understand what 
lesson it conveys? For again the pagan spirit of 
Amalek has stirred in far Asia, and with great 
cunning and power, with fire and murder, they 
seek to hinder the triumphal march of Christian 
morals, of Christian faith, of European commerce 
and education. And again God has ordered: 
' Choose men ; go forth and fight against Amalek ! ' 
A grim, a terrible struggle has begun. Already 
many of our brothers there are in the combat; 
many more are now on their way to the hostile 
coasts. You have seen them, those thousands 
who, answering the call, 'Volunteers to the front! 
Who win protect the Empire? ' are now gathering, 
and who will soon join in the fight with flying 
banners. 



"But we, remaining behind here at home, re- 
stricted by other and sacred duties — do we not 
hear the words of God, spoken to us, saying: 
' Go up on the mountain-side ! Lift up thine hands 
to the Most High!' The prayer of the just ac- 
complishes much if it be but said with all our 
strength and faith! 

"Well, then. Far away the ranks of warriors, 
and here at home the ranks of the praying — let 
that also be the holy battle-picture for to-day! 
Let this peaceful morning hour remind us of the 
sacreddutyof prayer, of the sacred power of prayer. 

"The sacred duty of prayer. 

"Certainly it is an inspiriting moment when a 
ship heaves anchor with a youthful crew on board ! 
Have you not seen the eyes of the young warriors 
shining? Have you not heard their thousand- 
voiced hurrah? 

"But when the coasts of our native land 
dwindle and vanish, when the ship enters the 
torrid heat of the Red Sea, or when she plunges 
into the mighty waves of the ocean, how often 
does enthusiasm vanish, too, and how often does 
strength depart! 

" Certainly an inspiriting moment when, alter 
a long journey, are seen, far in the distance, the 
straight lines of the German forts, and the black- 
white-red flag of the German colony becomes 
visible, and when brothers-in-arms are awaiting 
your arrival ashore, shouting welcome in the 
mother-tongue! But later on, when begin endless 
marches under a fiery sun, and interminable 
m'ghts, camping out in the rain, how easily then 
joy and courage ooze away! 

"Certainly a longed-for moment, that in which 
the drum beats to storm and the trumpets shriek 
to attack, when the order is shouted, 'On upon 
the enemy!' 

" But when, in the midst of thundering cannon 
and in the midst of sputtering, screaming shells 
your comrades are mowed down to right and left, 
and when the enemy's batteries will not be silenc- 
ed, how often even a brave heart begins to tremble ! 

' ' Christians ! To enable yoiu" brothers out there 
to remain of joj^ul heart, to persist in their duty 
even when it is hardest, not to lose courage even 
in the greatest danger, it needs more than am- 
munition and good weapons, more than bravery 
and enthusiasm — it needs approval and en- 
couragement from on high, else they cannot 
achieve victory. And this heavenly world can be 



THE NAVIES OF EUROPE 



107 




BRITAIN'S STRONGHOLD IN ASIA 

HONG-KONG, CHINA, V\'HERE THE BRITISH FORCES IN THE EAST MOBILIZED TO PROTECT THEIR POSSESSIONS 




GIBRALTAR, THE KEY TO THE MEDITERRANEAN SEA 

Britain's most important fortress, the famous rock-chamber batteries appear in the picture 



io8 



EUROPE AT WAR 




THE MASTERY OF THE SEAS" 
Britain's n.wal strength is nearly twice that of Germany, her nt;arest rival 




THE "MOLTKE," A GERMAN DREADNOUGHT 

OF ABOUT THE SAME CLASS AS THE FRENCH "COUBERT," AND ONE OF THE FASTEST BATTLESHIPS AFLOAT, BEING CAPABLE 

OF MAKING 28 KNOTS 



THE NAVIES OF EUROPE 



109 




THE BRITISH HOME FLEET STEAIMING THROUGH THE SOLENT 

FROM LEFT TO RIGHT, THE "KING GEORGE," "THUNDERER," "MONARCH," AND "CONQUEROR" 




ONE OF FR/VNCE'S BIG BATTLESHIPS 

THE DREADNOUGHT "COUBERT," VVHICH HAS A DISPLACEMENT OF 23,400 TONS AND CARRIES TWELVE 12-INCH GUNS AND 

TWENTY-TWO sf-INCH GUNS 



no 



EUROPE AT WAR 




BRITISH COAST GUARD MANOEUVRES 

TRAINING THE DEFENCE FORCE WHOSE DUTY IT IS TO REPEL INVASION 




CLOSING A BRITISH PORT TO FOREIGN WARSHIPS 

THESE HUGE BOOMS, MADE OF HEAVY TIMBERS ABOUT THIRTY FEET LONG, LASHED TOGETHER WITH STEEL CABLES, KEF.P 

OUT DESTROYERS AND OTHER SMALL HOSTILE CRAFT 



THE NAVIES OF EUROPE 



III 



■ 


^H 


■| 


■ 


p 


n 


1 


1 


1 


^^^1 


I 


|H| 


B^ff 


W!!p 


p- 






V 


^ 


^^^1 


w 








■SS525 


^ 


ii 






mH 


^Ci^M. 


. -SI,. 


ife 






1 


1 




yjpj 


lyrii^^^i 


H 






1 


1 


E 


BHtfl^-' ""' ^.'~ 


■ 


■ 




■ 


^1 



A NIGHT VIEW OF THE BRITISH HOME FLEET 




AN ARMORED TRAIN FOR THE DEFENCE OF THE ENGLISH COAST 



IT2 



EUROPE AT WAR 




THE NAVIES OF EUROPE 



"3 




POSSIBLY THE DECISIVE WEAPONS OF THE WAR 

GERMAN SUBMARINES IN PORT AT WILHELMSHAVEN, THE GERMAN NAVAL BASE ON THE NORTH SEA. 
AUTHORITIES BELIEVE THAT SUBMARINES HAVE MADE BATTLESHIPS OBSOLETE 



SOME EMINENT 




A FLOTILLA OF GERMAN DESTROYERS 

IN PRACTICE MANtEUVRES IN A HEAVY SEA 



114 


i. u K u r i 


^ Al 


W AK 


B^jji^Bj^ <i 


i 






fSr*t\' JL 


M 


r 




iPSf\^y ' 


£ff ' 


i 

■ r 


* 


PV^H^^nlwl 


Rwt 


s ^ 


/ 


^^^^^^^I^^H^ M^^^Wi^^^h.^ ^^^**^ 


FIgJ 


M 


^^jk- ' 




Jm 


i 


^^^^^ft 1 


■T » r-^'' ^^^B[:i!^3 


^H 1 m 


' J 


^^— 


■ «^ft^ *^'.^Kj*^P- 




\ w 


M<^ 




Kii:S-7s»rsis«wii 


■^ ; •-.'•^.JHJ 


mm. 




Copyright by Illustrations Bureau 

GERMANICS FOES ON THE WATER 

FRENCH AND ENGLISH SAILORS FR.\TERNIZING ON A FRENCH WARSHIP; AND A GROUP OF RUSSIAN SAILORS 




AN AIRSHIP ON A SEA SHIP 

A SCOUTING HYDRO-AEROPLANE AND LAUNCHING PLATFORM ON THE DECK OF A BRITISH WARSHIP 



THE KAISER 



"5 



unlocked solely by prayer. Prayer is the golden 
key to the treasure-chamber of our God. But 
whoever has it has also the promise that he who 
prays will also receive. 

"Or, indeed, are we to let our hands lie idly in 
our laps? Woe to us if we are to remain idle and 
impassive while they are doing their hard, their 
bloody tasks! Woe to us if we are to be but 
curious spectators behind the bars of the great 
arena wliile they struggle tensely in the grip of 
death! That were the spirit of Cain, saying 
cruelly, 'Am I my brother's keeper? ' That were 
treachery toward our brave brothers who are 
risking their lives! 

"No — thrice no! We will not only send out 
battalions of warriors. No ! We will also aid them 
by a holy band of pra3dng allies. 

"And how much, how many things, we have to 
ask God for our brothers going into the field of 
battle ! They are to be the strong arm with which 
to punish the assassins. They are to be the mailed 
fist with which to set aright the murderous dis- 
order. Their sword is to fight for our holiest 
treasures. 

"Let us, therefore, accompany them with our 
prayers upon the deep sea, upon their weary 
marches, into the thunder of battle, and into the 
quiet of the hospital. And we will ask God, our 
Lord, to let them remain strong and manful in 
their duty, so that they will fight the foe heroically 
and undauntedly, that they will bear their wounds 
bravely and without complaint, and God will 
give a blessed end to those who fall under fire, and 
will reward them — in short, He will make heroes 
of our warriors, and conquerors of these heroes, 
and will lead them home again into the land of 
their fathers, the laurel wreath around their 
helmets, and the medal of honor on their breasts. 

"The sacred power of prayer. 

"Or do we not believe in the sacred power of 
prayer? Well, then, what says our text? 'As 
long as Moses held up his hands, praying, Israel 
prevailed!' The fervent prayers of Moses made 
the swords of the enemy dull, enabled his men to 
penetrate the hostile ranks like a phalanx, thus 
causing them to break and run, and pinned vic- 
tory to the flying banners of Israel. And if the 
prayers of Moses accomplished this, is it to be 
thought that our prayers will prove of no avaO? 
God has not taken back a single syllable from His 
promises. Faithful prayer can throw even to-day 



the dragon banner into the dust and plant the 
cross upon the walls. 

"And Moses was not the only one whose prayer 
was heeded. Look, up on the heights of Sodom 
is Abraham, interceding with his God, and with 
his prayer he saves Lot from the burning city. 
Should it, then, be impossible for our prayers to 
rescue our fighting comrades from the dangers of 
battle? 

"Look again, and in Jerusalem ye will see the 
young Christian community on their knees. Their 
leader, their father, Ues a prisoner in jaU. Yet 
with their prayers they summon the angel of God 
into jail, and he leads forth Peter, unscathed. 

"Are we, then, to suppose that our prayer will 
not be potent enough to open again the doors for 
those in need, for the prisoners, for those pursued, 
and to place at their side a guardian angel? 

'Oh, the power, unseen unheard, 

Of a saintly pray'r! 
By the strength of faith and word 

Deeds are wrought fore'er.' 

"Yes, the Lord liveth! Our great Ally still 
reigneth. Our God liveth, the God who will not 
allow sin and crime to triumph, but who will 
conduct His holy cause against a wcked people. 
God Almighty, who can seize upon the strongest 
walls as if they were cobwebs, and who can scatter 
the mightiest armies like heaps of sand; the com- 
passionate, the faithful God, who bears upon His 
heart the weal or woe of every one of His children, 
and who hears every sigh and feels with us every 
sorrow. Pious prayer opens His fatherly hands, 
and they are filled with blessings. Fervent prayer 
unlocksHis fatherly heart, and it is filled with love. 
Yes, faithful, incessant prayer brings down God 
Himself from Heaven, and places Him in our 
very midst. And if God is for us, who can be 
against us? 

"Well, then, up in the Tauern Mountains, high 
above all, marvelous bells are hanging! They 
are not rung by human hands. Still and silent 
they hang in simshine. But when storms arise 
they begin to swing, they begin to ring, and their 
ringing is heard far down the valley. 

"God oiur Lord has hung prayer-bells in everj- 
human heart. But, alas! in the sunshine and 
happiness of life they are mute and motionless. 
But when the storms of misery and disaster over- 
take us, how they do begin to ring! And many 
a comrade who had forgotten how to pray learns 



ii6 



EUROPE AT WAR 



out there how to fold his hands once again. Mis- 
ery teaches us how to pray. And thus, too, it shall 
be at home. Let the dark days now upon us, let 
the war clouds that have overwhelmed us, set the 
prayer-bells in rhythmic swing. Let us pray for 
our struggling brothers. And not only on festive 
occasions. No! No! let us pray at aU times. 
Just as our fathers during war times caused the 
bells to ring every evening, baring their heads 
when the sound struck their ears, and praying, 
'Remain with us, O Jesus Christ, since night is 
coming on ! ' so in like manner let never a day pass 
without interceding for your brothers at the 
throne of the Most High. Moses held up his 
hands on high imtU the sun went down and 
Joshua had smitten Amalek with the sharp edge 
of the sword. Our own battle is not fought within 
a single day. But do not weary. Do not let 
your hands sink imtil victory is won. Let our 
prayers be a wall of fire around the camp of our 
brothers. 

"And how it will strengthen, inspire, encourage 
them, the thought: Thousands — nay, nulUons — 
at home bear us in their praying hearts. The 
King of all kings calls 'Volunteers to the front! 
Who will pray for the Fatherland?' Oh! if we 
could say: 'The King called, and all, all came. 
Let not a single one of us miss the summons. 
He is a man who knows how to pray. ' 

"History some day will describe the battles of 
these present days. However, man sees but what 
is before his eyes, and he can but tell what the 
wisdom of the leaders, the courage of his men, 
the sharpness of the weapons have done. Eternity 
however, will disclose to our gaze more than that, 
will show how the hidden, unseen prayer of the 
faithful and believing has been a great power in 
these battles, and how once more the promise of 
old has been fulfilled: 'Call upon Me in thine 
distress, and I will save thee. ' 

"And therefore: Cease not in your prayers." 

On the first of August, 1914, the Kaiser appeared 
on his balcony and commended the German 
people to a militant God in the approaching war: 

"A fateful hour has fallen for Germany. En- 
vious peoples everywhere are compeUing us to 
our just defence. The sword has been forced into 
our hands. I hope that if my efforts at the last 
hour do not succeed in bringing our opponents 
to see eye to eye with us and in maintaining the 
peace, we shall, with God's help, so weld the 



sword that we shall restore it to its sheath again 
with honor. 

"War would demand of us an enormous 
sacrifice in property and life, but we should show 
our enemies what it means to provoke Germany. 
And now I commend you to God. Go to church 
and kneel before God, and pray for His help for 
our gallant army." 

A few days later he opened the Reichstag with 
these words: 

"The world has been a witness of the inde- 
fatigable manner in which we stood in the front 
rank during the worries and troubles of recent 
years in the endeavor to spare the nations of Eur- 
ope from a war between the great Powers. 

"The greatest perils which had arisen owing 
to the events in the Balkans appeared to have 
been overcome, but then the assassination of my 
friend, the Archduke Francis Ferdinand, opened 
up a great abyss. 

"My ally, the Emperor Francis Joseph, was 
compelled to take up arms for the protection of 
his empire against the dangerous agitation ex- 
isting in a neighboring state. In pursuing its 
interest the Russian Empire stepped in the way of 
Austria-Hungary. 

"Not only our duty as an ally called us to the 
side of Austria-Hungary, but the great task was 
cast upon us at the same time, with the ancient 
community of culture of the two empires, to 
protect our own position against the attack of 
imfriendly forces. 

"It was with a heavy heart that I was com- 
pelled to mobilize my army against a neighbor 
with whose troops mine had fought side by side 
on so many fields of battle, and with sincere 
regret I saw the breaking of a friendship to which 
Germany had been so faithful. 

"The Imperial Russian Government, gi\ing 
way to an insatiable nationalism, has stepped to 
the side of a state which, through a criminal act, 
had brought about the calamity of this war. 

"That France also placed herself on the side of 
our opponent was not surprising to us. Only 
too often had our efforts to bring about more 
friendly relations with the French Republic come 
into contact with the expression of old hopes and 
with long-standing malice. 

"The present situation arose not from tem- 
porary conflicts of interest or diplomatic com- 
binations, but is the result of ill-will existing for 



"THE MAILED FIST" 



117 



years against the strength and prosperity of the 
German Empire. We are not pushed on by the 
desire of conquest. We are moved by the un- 
bending desire to secure for ourselves and those 
coming after us the place on which God has put us. 
"My Government and, above all, my Chan- 
cellor, tried until the last moment to prevent the 
worst happening. In enforced self-defense, with 
clear conscience and clean hands we grasp the 
sword. 



"To the peoples and races of the German Em- 
pire my appeal goes forth to stand together 
fraternally with our allies in defense of that which 
we have created in peaceful work. 

"Following the example of our forefathers, firm 
and faithful, earnest and chivalrous, humble be- 
fore our God and ready to fight when in face of the 
enemy, let us confide ourselves to the everlasting 
Aknighty, who will strengthen our defense and 
conduct it to a good end." 



THE KAISER AND THE "MAILED FIST" 



THERE is an explanation of the "blood 
and iron" poUcy of Germany, of the 
"mailed fist" of the Kaiser, of what Mr. 
H. G. Wells calls "that tramping, drilling foolery 
in the heart of Europe that has arrested civiliza- 
tion and darkened the hopes of mankind for forty 
years — German imperialism and German mil- 
itarism." The explanation is in the history of 
the rise of Prussia. Bismarck lifted Prussia from 
a second rate member of the German Confeder- 
ation, which was dominated by Austria, to a first 
place among the German states and then formed 
around it a new nation — Germany, and made 
that nation one of the great powers of the world. 
Bismarck believed in autocracy, he believed in 
"blood and iron," in the "mailed fist." He 
achieved his success by war, deUberately planned, 
prepared for and efficiently carried out. 

Look closely at the lessons of war and diplo- 
macy which Emperor William inherits from his 
grandfather and the Iron Chancellor. 

In 1862, Emperor William I, the grandfather 
of the present ruler, was struggling to get the 
Prussian Diet to grant him money to double the 
size of his army. He had been unsuccessful in 
this effort. He was about to give it up when 
as a final experiment he consented to invite into 
his ministry the then young reactionary leader. 
Otto von Bismarck. Bismarck's political ideas 
centred around the belief in the Prussian mon- 
archy. It had been the Prussian kings, not the 
Prussian people that had made Prussia great. 
Bismarck believed in the king and disbelieved 
in the people. He hated democracy. He also 
beUeved in war as a means of national progress. 
In the most famous speech of his hfe in 1863 
he announced "Not by speeches and majority 
votes are the great questions of the day decided 



— but by 'blood and iron.'" These are the 
views of the man from whom the present Emperor 
learned his statecraft. 

In 1863, Prussia and Austria went to war, a 
war chiefly of Bismarck's contriving, against 
Denmark and took the duchy of Lauenburg and 
the provinces of Schleswig and Holstein, in which 
the Kiel Canal and the German naval base is now. 
Austria was to administer Holstein and Prussia, 
Schleswig. Prussia paid Austria $1,800,000 for 
the duchy of Lauenburg. Bismarck approved 
this whole arrangement because he thought it 
would lead to war with Austria, and it was a part 
of his "blood and iron" policy that a German 
nation under Prussian domination could come 
only after a war with Austria. There was not 
room in a German Confederation for both Austria 
and Prussia — "one or the other must bend." 
Within a year after the division of Schleswig- 
Holstein, Bismarck had obtained a promise from 
Napoleon III to remain neutral if Prussia at- 
tacked Austria. He also made a treaty with 
Italy providing that Italy would join Prussia 
in a war on Austria if Prussia began the war 
within three months for the sake of reforms in 
the German Confederation. The enemy was 
thus isolated, and Prussia was prepared to use 
both "blood and iron." Bismarck immediately 
and quite unexpectedly introduced into the Diet 
of Frankfort, the governing body of the German 
Confederation, a new plan for the federation 
of German states. With this as a background, 
to satisfy the Italian treaty, Bismarck picked a 
quarrel with Austria over its administration 
of Holstein, declared the old confederation dis- 
solved, attacked Austria, and invited the other 
German states to do likewise. None of the other 
important states sided with Prussia. Four of 



ii8 



EUROPE AT WAR 



them stood with Austria. But Prussia was pre- 
pared, trained and ready for war. In seven 
weeks Austria was defeated and soon after all 
Germany was at the mercy of the Prussians. 

Prussia now aimexed the kingdom of Hanover, 
four duchies and the free city of Frankfort, 
bringing under the Prussian king practically 
all the peoples and land along the north coast 
from the Russian border to the border of Hol- 
land. There was no thought of having the people 
of these states vote on the question of annexation 
as had been done in Italy. They were annexed 
by the right of conquest on decrees issued from 
Berlin, where one king who ruled by "divine 
right" deposed two or three others whose thrones 
were similarly bolstered up. Thus increased, 
Prussia became the leader in a new German Con- 
federation which included all but four German 
states and from which Austria was excluded. 

The "blood and iron" policy had triumphed. 
Prussia had humbled Austria and become the 
dominant power in Germany. Yet Germany 
was not united. The four southern states still 
were outside the Confederation. So there was 
need for more "blood and iron." Bismarck be- 
lieved a war between France and Prussia in- 
evitable and (Hazen's "Europe Since 1S15," 
pp. 289-290) "in his opinion it was desirable as 
the only way of completing the unification, since 
Napoleon III would never willingly consent to the 
extension of the Confederation to include the 
South German states. AH that he desired was 
that it should come at precisely the right moment, 
when Prussia was entirely ready, and that it 
should come by act of France, so that Prussia 
could pose before Europe as merely defending 
herself against a wanton aggressor. In his 
"Reminiscences" he avows that he entertained 
his belief as early as 1866. 'That a war with 
France would succeed the war with Austria lay 
in the logic of history;' and again 'I did not 
doubt that a Franco-German war must take place 
before the construction of a United Germany could 
be reahzed.' The unification of Germany being 
his supreme aim, he was bound by logic and am- 
bition to see that that war occiu^red." 

He explains frankly in his "Reminiscences" 
how he brought the war about. There was a 
delicate diplomatic situation between Prussia and 
France in 1870 which arose over the succession to 
the Spanish throne. The King of Prussia was 



at Ems. The French ambassador went to see 
him and made certain demands. The Emperor 
telegraphed these to Bismarck saying that he 
could use his discretion about publishing them. 
Von Moltke and Roon, the great Prussian soldiers, 
were with Bismarck when the telegram came. 
They were in a dejected mood for they saw no 
chance of war. Then, says Bismarck, " I reduced 
the telegram by striking out words but without 
adding or altering. . . . After I read out the 
concentrated edition to my two guests Moltke 
remarked: 'Now it has a different ring; it 
sounded before like a parley; now it is hke a 
flourish in answer to a challenge.' I went on to 
explain: 'If in execution of his Majesty's order I 
at once communicate this text, which contains 
no alteration in or addition to the telegram, not 
only to the newspapers, but also by telegraph to 
all our embassies, it will be known in Paris before 
midnight, and not only on account of its contents, 
but also on account of the manner of its distri- 
bution, wiU have the effect of a red rag upon the 
Gallic bull. Fight we must if we do not want to 
act the part of the vanquished without a battle. 
Success, however, essentially depends upon the 
impression which the origination of the war 
makes upon us and others; it is important that 
we should be the party attacked, and this Gallic 
overweening and touchiness will make us if 
we announce in the face of Europe, so far as we 
can without the speaking tube of the Reichstag, 
that we fearlessly met the public threats of 
France.' He adds that ' this explanation brought 
about in the two generals a revulsion to a more 
joyous mood, the liveliness of which surprised 
me 

The trick had its desired effect. France de- 
clared war against Prussia. The ever ready 
"blood and iron" were loosed again. 

Everything was as Bismarck wished. The 
South German states joined Prussia. The French 
were defeated quickly and completely. In less 
than six months after the opening gun was fired, 
on January 18, 187 1, King William the First 
was crowned Emperor of a united Germany, the 
four southern states had joined the Empire, and 
Alsace and Lorraine had been annexed to Prussia. 

In less than ten years the great Chancellor 
had turned a second rate German state into an 
Empire, a first class power among the nations 
of the world. He did it by "blood and iron," 



'THE MAILED FIST" 



"9 



by unscrupulous diplomacy backed by the best 
trained army in Europe, and by unhesitatingly 
throwing the country into war where the army 
could be used. 

The present Emperor inherited German mil- 
itarism and German imperialism, a belief in 
the divine right of kings and the strength of the 
German army. The lessons of the history of 
his country and of his family are plain. Ger- 
many was built by "blood and iron." 

On his accession to the throne, in the speech 
he made to the army and navy three days be- 
fore his speech to the people, he reiterated Bis- 
marck's doctrine in these words : 

"The soldier and the army, not parliamentary 
majorities, have welded together the German 
Empire. My confidence is placed on the army." 

At the centenary of the firm of Krupp, at 
Essen, the Emperor said: 

"The history of this firm is a piece of Prussian 
and German history. Krupp guns have been 
with the Prussian lines and have thundered on 
the battlefields which made ready the way to 
German unity and won it at last." 

William II broke with the great Chancellor, 
not because he believed more in the people than 
Bismarck, but because he beheved so much in 
the rule by divine right that he was unwilling even 
to be overshadowed by the Chancellor who had 
made the Empire. 

Bismarck's use of "blood and iron" made 
Germany the strongest nation on the European 
continent. But he recognized very clearly that 
"blood and iron" was a policy to be used with 
great care. Before every one of the three wars 
he precipitated he was careful to do two things: 
(i) to isolate the country he was going to attack 
by arrangements that would keep other nations 
from interfering with his war and (2), be certain 
that his army was better prepared than the enemy. 

This was the game that Bismarck played by 
which he achieved the great ambition of his life — 
the unification of Germany. 

Emperor WUliam has an even larger vision. 
"Our future is on the water," he announced. " The 
more the Germans go upon the water the better it 
will be for us." This announcement was in 1901. 
But the date of the first naval programme was 
1893, three years after Bismarck's retirement. 
The Kiel Canal was opened in 1S95. To further 



his imperiahsm, the Emperor has used the " mailed 
fist," the threat of his army rather than the army 
itself. It is interesting to see what the Kaiser's 
imperialism, backed by the "maOed fist," has 
achieved, and its influence in the present crisis. 

In 1895, the year in which the Kiel Canal was 
opened, Germany joined France and Russia 
in a demand upon Japan that it give up Port 
Arthur, which it had just taken from the Chinese. 
The interest of Russia and therefore of its ally, 
France, was plain enough. Russia wanted the 
port itself. Germany's interference seemed en- 
tirely uncalled for and provoked much resent- 
ment in Japan. This combination against Japan 
threw that country upon England and resulted 
in the Anglo- Japanese alliance which now gives 
the Japanese fleet an excuse to attack the German 
port of Kiao-chau. 

In 1896, the day after the Jameson raiders 
were captiu-ed by the Boers, Emperor William 
congratulated President Kruger that it had been 
done "without appeahng to the help of the 
friendly powers." This direct slap at England 
was met by the formation of a flying squadron 
and by calling attention to the London Con- 
vention reserving supervision of the foreign rela- 
tions of the Transvaal to England. Later the 
Emperor snubbed Kruger and was very friendly 
to England, but the incident served to set English 
pubhc opinion against the Kaiser almost until 
the rise of the German navy gave England a 
renewed feeling of coolness. 

In 1898, after Admiral Dewey had defeated 
the Spanish Fleet in Manila, Admiral Diedrich 
with a German fleet entered the harbor and 
sounded the English Admiral, who arrived about 
the same time, as to what his attitude would be 
were Germany to try to force the American fleet 
to give up Manila. The answer was sufficient 
to prevent any move on the part of the German 
admiral but not to prevent a feeling against the 
German Government. 

In 1905, the Emperor in person landed in 
Morocco, where France felt it had particular 
claims. As a result of this visit the Sultan re- 
fused to accept the French programme and asked 
for a conference with representatives of the lead- 
ing powers to advise him. M. Delcasse, the 
French Minister of Foreign Afiairs, protested 
that France would attend to the matter alone. 
The German Chancellor, Von Biilow, used threat- 



I20 



EUROPE AT WAR 



ening language. France gave up, M. Delcasse 
resigned. The "mailed fist" had been successful 
and another country was provoked against 
Germany. 

In igo8 Austria took over Bosnia and Herze- 
govina, England and Russia protested that this 
was against the stipulations of the treaty of 
Berlin. Russia intimated that the annexation 
of Slav provinces might lead to its interference. 
The German Emperor responded with a threat 
of instant mobUization. Russia had not recov- 
ered from its Manchurian campaigns, and the 
Czar had to back down. Again the "mailed 
fist" was successful and another nation was given 
a grievance against Germany. 

In 1909 an agreement was made with France 
concerning Morocco. All was seemingly satis- 
factory when on the first of July, 1911, the 
First Secretary of the German Embassy called 
upon the French Foreign Minister to inform him 
of Germany's decision to send a warship to Agadir. 
The cruiser Panther served as the "mailed fist" 
this time. She failed of her mission. France was 
not intimidated as before, but the incident was 
fresh fuel to the French feeling against Germany. 

In July, 1900, at the launching of the Wittels- 
bach, WUliam II declared that the "ocean was 
indispensable to German greatness": 

"The ocean teaches us that on its waves and 
on its most distant shores no great decision can 
any longer be taken without Germany and with- 
out the German Emperor. I do not think that it 
was in order to allow themselves to be excluded 
from big foreign affairs that thirty years ago our 
people, led by their princes, conquered and shed 
their blood. Were the German people to let them- 
selves be treated thus, it would be, and forever, 
the end of their world-power; and I do not mean 
that that shall ever cease. I intend to employ 
in order to prevent it, the suitable means, if 
need be." 

The Emperor has carried out his policies. 
Germany has not been excluded from big foreign 
affairs. No great decision has been taken with- 
out Germany and the German Emperor. But the 
net result of the activity has been to leave Ger- 
many nearly isolated when the great war came — 
in the very predicament in which Bismarck used 
to manoeuvre the enemies of Germany before 
provoking war. Moreover, he has forgotten 
Bismarck's maxim that "success essentially 
depends upon the impression which the origina- 



tion of the war makes upon us and others; it is 
important that we should be the party attacked." 

Whatever the provocation in this war, Ger- 
many actually declared war first on Russia, 
France, and England. 

There is another poUcy or rather belief which 
Emperor William inherits. It is exemplified in the 
speech he made as late as 1910, in which he said: 

"Considering myself as the instrument of the 
Lord, without heeding the views and opinions of 
the day, I go my way." 

Against the spread of democratic principles 
the Kaiser stands as the first defence. Behind 
him are the Emperor of Austria and the Czar. 
But the German Emperor, the champion of 
Teutonism against the Slav, is the defender of 
autocracy of which the Czar is the best exponent. 
The German Emperor's insistence on his divine 
right has lost Germany the sympathy of the dem- 
ocratic countries of the world. 

At the Oxford Commencement this year the 
German Ambassador to England was given an 
honorary degree, and in giving it the college au- 
thorities dwelt upon the fact that the strained sit- 
uation between England and Germany that was 
acute in 191 1 had been entirely reUeved. A few 
days later six English battleships were in the 
friendly harbor of Kiel during the great Kiel 
Week. OflScers of both nations danced gaily 
on the decks of the British dreadnought Ajax. 

Five weeks later the Ajax with a great fleet 
was in the North Sea "to capture or destroy" 
their hosts of but a short time before. 

The German Emperor cut short his yearly 
visit to Norway. President Poincare hurried 
back from Russia to France, Earl Kitchener 
was stopped at Calais on his way to Egypt and 
brought back to organize England for war. Ger- 
many's threat prevented Russia from disturbing 
Austria's Balkan policies once before. The 
"mailed fist" had worked against almost every 
country in Europe and yet no war had occurred. 
Then suddenly it fails, Germany's threat of 
mobilization is met by mobilization elsewhere 
and the Emperor finds himself isolated, fighting 
half the world and with little sympathy from the 
other half. With him is only Austria, which pre- 
cipitated the struggle and to whose assistance he 
went, and perhaps Turkey, which sees a chance 
to regain in the melee some of the ground which 
it has recently lost 



OTHER PERSONAGES 



SIR EDWARD GREY 

SIR EDWARD GREY has been at the head 
of the British foreign office for nine years. 
He has been in the British public serv- 
ice thirty years, in Parliament, as under Sec- 
cretary of State under Gladstone, and in his 
present position. The striking fact about him 
— that which makes Englishmen of both parties 
place in his hands the fate of the nation with 
implicit confidence — is the honesty and frank- 
ness of his every public action. 

He is not a diplomat in the old sense of the 
word. He has no tricks or wiles. He is en- 
tirely straightforward. With all the cards on 
the table, he conducts the foreign affairs of the 
British Empire in much the same way as other 
business is conducted. 

He has had the least possible hand in the 
intrigues, compacts, plots, plans, and strata- 
gems of the European diplomatic arena. As 
far as her situation would permit he endeavored 
to realize for England the venerable American 
policy of a friendship for all, entangling alli- 
ances with none! The other day in the House 
of Coipmons he made it clear that England was 
under no agreement or contract to fight for 
France or Russia. 

His natural disposition to avoid the compli- 
cations of the continental game of empire, may 
be clearly seem in a speech he made in January, 
1912. 

"Let me put you on your guard against people 
who, as I think, are very bad advisers with regard 
to foreign policy. There is a certain section, 
I have no doubt, in the Liberal Party, which 
think we do not interfere nearly enough, espe- 
cially in certain parts of the world, in Asia. Mon- 
goha, I think, was the last selected as a part 
inwhichweshould take an active interest. Believe 
me, if you are going to pursue a foreign policy 
of that kind, and this country is going to interfere 
actively in Central Asian questions far beyond 
our own Indian frontier, you are going to incur, 
not only the very heavy naval expenditure which 
we have already, but a vastly increased military 
expenditure as well; and the people who press 
upon me a different foreign policy to that which 



is now being pursued are, it seems to me, people 
who are really advocating as a foreign policy the 
maximum of interference in the affairs of the world 
at large and the minimum of friendship; because 
the policy, if it were carried out, would soon 
leave us without a friend in Europe." 

The policy of not meddling with other nations 
and provoking their hostOity seems well repaid 
when in a crisis like this the long expected 
German-English war comes and finds England 
with many allies and Germany almost isolated. 

COUNT BERCHTOLD 

COUNT LEOPOLD BERCHTOLD, whose 
aggressive policy toward Servia preci- 
pitated the war of the world, is the second 
Austrian statesman with a foreign policy more 
active than playing "a brilliant second" to Ger- 
many. In 1908 Count d'Aehrenthal, who, as 
Ambassador to Russia, had feared the revolu- 
tionists, risked starting a European war by 
annexing Bosnia and Herzegovina to Austria. 
Berchtold took the same risk this year in under- 
taking to discipline Servia. But this time Russia 
had recovered from the Japanese War! 

Count Berchtold is an intellectual and coiurteous 
diplomat, of unmilitary training. 

He succeeded d'Aehrenthal not only at the 
Foreign Office in Vienna but previously at the 
Austro-Hungarian Embassy at St. Petersburg. 
He was known as a protege and to some extent 
a disciple of d'Aehrenthal. He was a young 
Ambassador in St. Petersburg when he was sent 
there in 1907 by d'Aehrenthal — apparently un- 
der forty — of a tall and exceptionally graceful 
figure, long limbed but not athletic. A healthy 
pallor lent distinction to regular features, and 
scant, soft, brown hair of an indefinite tone added 
to the height of a broad brow and gave an in- 
tellectual cast of countenance. An aristocrat to 
the finger tips, at home, like his predecessor, 
rather in the drawing room and the cabinet than 
in the field. Berchtold has shown the same cal- 
culating daring — intellectual rather than physical. 

It is not to be supposed that Austria's ulti- 
matum to Servia on July 26, 1914, was made 
with any less knowledge of consequences by 
Berchtold than the annexation of Bosnia- 



122 



EUROPE AT WAR 



Herzegovina by d'Aehrenthal in 1908. If any 
foreign diplomat to-day knows the aims of Rus- 
sian diplomacy, it is Berchtold. When, in Feb- 
ruary, 1 9 13, Prince Gottfried Hohenlohe reached 
Petersburg, the bearer of a letter from Francis 
Joseph to the Czar, with powers to negotiate 
if necessary the menacing situation in the Balkans, 
Berchtold showed an appreciation of the possibil- 
ities of friendly diplomacy, for Hohenlohe is not 
only intimate with the most powerful of the Grand 
Dukes but is also in favor with the Emperor. 
The upshot of Hohenlohe's mission must ulti- 
mately have been ineffective; but Austria's aims 
at the Sanjak of Novibazar and an outlet on the 
^gean are established as well known. Her 
foreign policy to-day is the consistent develop- 
ment of the aggressive turn given to it by d'Aeh- 
renthal. It is now directed by a man of supple 
and intellectual force rather than physical vigor 
and from the plane of an aristocrat who still 
regards national development as a thing entirely 
dynastic and aristocratic. The preservation and 
power of the Austrian Empire is the goal, and 
at the same time the stake. 
The price of success cannot be too high. 

VON BETHMANN-HOLLWEG 

A PHILOSOPHER and academician, Theo- 
bald Von Bethmann-Hollweg,bya sudden 
upheaval of destiny, inherits the "blood 
and iron" tradition of Bismarck on the outbreak 
of world-wide war. He is tall and gaunt; a quiet 
yet compelling presence. When he speaks it is 
straightforwardly, simply. His sincerity is rather 
more than German, his thoroughness entirely 
German. Gravity is the essence of him. But, 
commanding and persuading as is his physical 
presence, Germany has not hitherto found him a 
dominating figure. 

Von Bethmann-HoUweg comes from an old 
Prussian merchant family ennobled in 1840. He 
is 57 years old and has been Imperial Chan- 
cellor since 1909. He and the Kaiser were 
students together at the University of Bonn, 
and the Kaiser's confidence in him and friend- 
ship for him date back to those early years. 
Nevertheless he has risen to the highest appointive 
office in the Empire not by favoritism, but through 
the stereotyped grades of German officialdom, 
each step in his career patiently gained and cre- 
ditably administrated. 



Bethmann-HoUweg studied law at Gottingen, 
Strassburg, and Berlin, from 1875 to 1879, and 
after following the legal profession for the next 
six years, he was appointed judge at Potsdam. 
Here, again, he enjoyed the intimacy of the 
royal heir. 

His appointment to the chancellorship came 
when the Empire was thought to be facing a 
crisis. Certain elements in the Reichstag were 
trying to make the chancellor a responsible officer; 
a financial bill, which committed the Empire to 
the expenditure of $100,000,000, stood in danger 
of being defeated. Von Biilow had lost the con- 
fidence of the Reichstag through his cynicism, 
and that of the Kaiser through hinting to the 
latter to be more careful about pubUc utterances. 
Everyone wondered who the "next man" would 
be. 

The appointment of Bethmann-HoUweg came 
as a great surprise. Yet it has been fairly jus- 
tified, for although the Chancellor is a "Kaiser- 
man "who sinks his personahty into the shadow of 
his Emperor, he has conducted his office with credit. 

HERBERT HENRY ASQUITH 

THE Right Honorable Herbert Henry 
Asquith, Prime Minister of England, 
and First Lord of the Treasury, is a York- 
shireman of Puritan stock, who, without family 
influence or fortune, has worked his way up 
from the bottom until he stands to-day in the 
powerful position held by Gladstone — a position 
which is one of the directing forces behind modem 
civilization. 

Born at Moreley, Yorkshire, on September 12, 
1852, he was educated at the City of London 
School, and at Balliol College, Oxford. He be- 
came barrister at 24 years of age at Lincoln's 
Inn, and as early as 1890 became a Queen's 
Counsellor. His ambition, however, lay rather 
in the direction of the House of Commons. He 
was elected member of Parliament for East Fife 
in 1886. It was four years later that he moved 
the vote of want of confidence which overthrew 
Lord Sahsbury's government, and was made 
Home Secretary in the new Liberal Ministry. 

It was Asquith who coined the phrase as to 
the Government's "plowing the sand" in their 
endeavor to pass Liberal legislation with a 
hostile House of Lords. During his three years 
of office he confirmed the high opinion formed 



OTHER PERSONAGES 



123 



of his ability. The Liberal defeat of 1895 left 
him out of office for eleven years. 

During the years of Unionist ascendancy, 
Mr. Asquith divided his energies between his 
legal work and pohtics, and became identified 
with Lord Rosebery's attitude toward Irish 
Home Rule. When Mr. Balfour resigned in 
1905, and Sir Henry Campbell-Bannerman be- 
came Prime Minister, Mr. Asquith was appointed 
Chancellor of the Exchequer. He pledged 
himself to inaugurate a system of old-age pen- 
sions, and his advocacy of other social reforms 
greatly increased his popularity. On the re- 
signation of Sir Henry Campbell-Bannerman 
in 1908 the King appointed him Prime Minister. 

PRESIDENT POINCARE OF FRANCE 

PRESIDENT POINCARE, of France, is 
the great champion of electoral reform at 
home, and of the Triple Entente abroad, 
His first executive act as President of the Re- 
public was to appoint as ambassador to Russia 
M. Delcasse, father of the Triple Entente. 

France is now enjoying the reward of one of 
these policies of Delcasse and Poincare. She 
has Russia and England as allies in the long- 
e.xpected conflict with Germany. 

The President of France is a bearded pale-faced, 
rather short and stout man who impresses friend 
and foe alike with his mental ability. He has 
the versatility of liis race. According to the 
painter. Degas, he "is the only politician who 
knows anything about art." 

He is a patron of the turf, an author of widely 
read books which won him a place in the French 
Academy beside his famed artist cousin, Henri. 
As a la^vyer he stood first at the Bar, and as 
an educator he has been Minister of Public 
Instruction. While Minister of Finance, he 
put on the statutes laws regulating and equaliz- 
ing the taxation of millions. He has been counsel 
of the Beaux Arts, counsel of the National 
Museum, president of the Philotechnique Fran- 
faise, and president of the Society of Friends 
of the University of Paris. 

He is stUl in the prime of life and imdimin- 
ished vigor, for he is only 54 years old. In this 
crisis it is fortunate for France that she has in 
the Presidency one of the few strong characters 
who have held that oflice since the last war with 
Germany brought about the Third Republic. 



BARON CONRAD VON HOTZENDORF 

THE direction of the armies of Austria- 
Hungary Ues in the hands of Baron 
Conrad Von Hotzendorf. He has the 
confidence of the aged Emperor, and the rank and 
file of the army, and is, besides possessing unique 
qualifications and capacity for army organiza- 
tion, the Kitchener of Austria-Hungary. 

PoHtical affairs in Austria brought him to 
the front in 1906, when he was made chief of 
the general staff, receiving the rank of general 
in 1908. Three years later he was reUeved from 
this position to become army inspector in 191 1. 
But in 1 91 2 he was recalled to the post of chief 
of staff. 

GRAND ADMIRAL VON TIRPITZ 

jk DMIRAL VON TIRPITZ made the Ger- 

t-\ man Navy. Perhaps he has not made it 
-*■ -^ as effective as several generations of Eng- 
lishmen have made the British navy, but there 
is a great deal of sound opinion to the effect that 
Von Tirpitz's work is the equal of any navy in 
the world. 

His activities during the fall manoeuvres of 
1894 won for him the recognition of the Kaiser, 
who mentioned that fact in the royal message 
sent to the commander, Freiherr von der Goltz. 
Von Tirpitz's reward was promotion. He was 
made Chief of Staff and was given charge at 
Kiel. The plans for the manoeuvres of the next 
year were drawn up by him and the Kaiser did 
not miss an opportunity after that to show his 
appreciation. 

After he had become Secretary of State in 
1898, Von Tirpitz began a campaign the like of 
which Germany had never before known. His 
intention was to make the naval service as strong 
as the military arm. A naval base was estab- 
lished at Kiel, the methods of the Engineering 
Corps were modernized, and a new set of regula- 
tions was arranged for the education of the new 
generation of officers. Supplementary bills were 
passed, through his efforts, in 1900 and 1906. 
He was then made a noble with a hereditary title. 

This old gray German admiral joined his Gov- 
ernment's service as a naval cadet forty years 
ago. German sea power consisted of a collection 
of obsolete frigates, euphemistically called the 
Prussian navy. He now directs the second 



124 



EUROPE AT WAR 



largest navy in the world. One would think that, 
having devoted his life to a bitter contest in naval 
construction with Great Britain, he would be a 
strong Anglophobe. Almost the reverse is the 
case. All his children have been educated in 
England, and he is a sincere admirer of the best 
things in British character and achievement. 
Perhaps more than any other one man he is re- 
sponsible for the almost frantic competitive 
building programme of European navies during 
the last generation, clinging tenaciously to his 
"two to three" German standard against Great 
Britain's insistent "two to one." 

KING ALBERT OF BELGIUM 

THE figure of the young King of Belgium 
— a man 39 years of age — stands 
against a picturesque background in the 
European conflict. His voice was first heard 
by the world-at-large when, in the heroic defence 
of his little kingdom, he called upon his soldiers 
in a spirited proclamation to defend their country 
to the last drop of blood and to stand shoulder to 
shoulder against a common foe. 

The full name of the Belgian King is Albert- 
Leopold-Clement-Marie-Menard. He was born 
in Brunswick on April 8, 1875, and is the sole 
surviving son of the Count of Flanders, who died 
in 1905. He is of a studious disposition, and 
bears a striking resemblance to his uncle. King 
Leopold II. He was married in 1900 to Eliza- 
beth, Duchess of Bavaria, third daughter of 
Duke Charles of Bavaria, and was crowned King 
of Belgium in 1909. 

He knows America well, having spent almost 
an entire year in 1898 in this country while still 
heir-presumptive. In 1910 he dispatched to 
Washington Baron de Beaulieu, one of the dis- 
tinguished members of the Belgian diplomatic 
service, for the purpose of ofiicially notifying 
the President of his accession to the throne, being 
the first European sovereign to send a special 
ambassador to the United States to formally 
annoimce his accession. 

He resembles his late uncle in the attentive- 
ness with which he reads the leading nev/spapers 
of Europe. Every morning the London Times, 
the Paris Temps, the Berlin Kreu?, Zeitimg, and 
the Vienna Neue Freie Presse are placed upon 
his study table. He likewise reads the scientific 
press, particularly those papers which pay atten- 



tion to electrical subjects. His hobby is en- 
gineering. Some months before he ascended 
the throne he ran a locomotive from the Belgian 
capital to the frontier. He is now striving to 
make himself an authority on wireless telegraphy, 
and has had a complete radio-telegraphic system 
fitted up at his palace at Laeken for experiments. 
He is a hard working, modern constitutional 
monarch, 

ARCHDUKE FRANCIS-FERDINAND 

THE whole world was startled when the 
news was spread broadcast that the heir 
to the Hapsburg's imperial throne, to- 
gether with his morganatic ■wife, the Duchess of 
Hohenberg, had been assassinated at Sarajevo. 
When the news of the assassination of the Arch- 
duke and the Duchess was broken to the aged 
Emperor, Francis Joseph, he cried: "Horrible, 
horrible! No sorrow is spared to me." 

For the last twenty years Francis Ferdinand 
had been the dark horse of Europe. Perhaps 
his divergence in many ways from popular ideas 
of what an Emperor ought to be may be ac- 
counted for by the fact that up to the time he 
was twenty-six years old he never expected to be 
within reach of the crown, as he was not first in 
the line of succession. 

He was bom in 1863. His mother, Maria An- 
nunziata, was a daughter of Ferdinand II of 
Naples. Through the tragic death of Crown 
Prince Rudolph in 1889, Archduke Charles 
Ludwig (the Emperor's brother and Francis 
Ferdinand's father), was made heir to the throne. 
Charles Ludwig, however, on account of age, 
asked to be excused from the succession, thus 
leaving the way to the throne clear to his son. 

When Ferdinand calmly announced in 1893 
that he was not in love with any of the Arch- 
duchesses at the Imperial Court but wth one 
of their companions, an obscure Bohemian 
countess, the Emperor was dumfounded, and 
the countess was promptly discharged, and 
the Archduke set out on a trip around the world. 
He attempted to return through the United States 
without disclosing his identity, but was re- 
cognized at Chicago and New York, where he 
received much attention. Eventually the Em- 
peror gave his consent to a morganatic marriage 
with the Countess (Sophie Chotek) but the 
Archduke was compelled to take a solemn oath 



OTHER PERSONAGES 



I2S 



that he never would attempt to place his wife 
or her children on the throne. The Countess, on 
her marriage, took rank, as Fuerstin of Hohenberg, 
and in 1905 was given the rank of Duchess. 

Francis Ferdinand had been brought up in 
the army and had no particular training for 
statecraft, but at the time of his death he wielded 
a great influence in the affairs of State. In the 
crisis attending the annexation of Bosnia and 
Herzegovina in 190S, and in the Balkan wars 
of 1912-1913, he was one of the leaders in the 
group of men who pulled the dual monarchy out 
of the fire in one of the most remarkable triumphs 
of modern diplomacy. 

Ferdinand was made a general and re-or- 
ganized the Austrian general staff with great 
success in 1891. He took up locomotive en- 
gineering as a hobby, and was recognized as one 
of the best shots in the country. The waUs of his 
castle at Konopischt were hung with the antlers 
of 2,000 stags and chamois, as well as with the 
heads of tigers killed in India, the tusks of ele- 
phants slain in Ceylon, and the pelts of bears shot 
in the Rocky Mountains. 

HORATIO HERBERT KITCHENER 

THE eyes of all England are focused at 
present on Earl Kitchener, the "organ- 
izer of victory" who stands to-day in 
supreme command of the destinies of the British 
land forces, both as Secretary of War and as 
commander-in-chief of the Army. 

Earl Kitchener is a tall man, 64 years old, 
with heavy gray moustache and wavy gray hair, 
which he wears parted in the middle. He has a 
simbumt, determined-looking face, large steel- 
blue eyes, and square jaws. 

UntU the events of the moment, Kitchener has 
never commanded against the organized army 
of any Power of the first rank, but he is prob- 
ably the best known military leader in Europe. 
He was bom in County Kerry, in 1850, of English 
parentage. He was educated at the Royal Mili- 
tary Academy at Woolwich and entered the 
British army when twenty-one years of age, 
receiving a commission in the Royal Engineers. 
Offered a post imder the Palestine Exploration 
Fund, he spent some years in Palestine, and was 
employed to make a survey of the Island of 
Cyprus. 

When Lord Wolseley waged the campaign of 



Tel-el-Kebir in 1882, Kitchener was given com- 
mand of the Egyptian cavalry. Then, from 
1884 to 1885, he was with the Nile Expedition. 
He commanded at Suakim in 1887 and he suc- 
ceeded Sir Francis Grenfell as Sirdar in 1890. 

Kitchener stepped into world fame and into 
the heart of every Englishman in 1896. It was 
then that he began the reconquest of the Soudan, 
and two years later the Soudan was conquered. 
Thereupon, he was promoted to the rank of major- 
general, received a grant of $150,000 with the 
thanks of Parliament, and was raised to the 
peerage. Thereafter he was popularly referred 
to as Kitchener of Khartoum. 

The days of glory for Kitchener came again 
in 1899, when he was sent to South Africa as 
chief of staff with Lord Roberts. How he 
finished the Boer War, how he arranged the 
Peace of Vereeniging, and how he came home to 
be made a Viscount, with the thanks of Parlia- 
ment and a grant of $250,000, are all matters of 
recent history. From 1902 to 1909, he was 
commander-in-chief in India, and after that re- 
turned to "Egypt in the capacity of British 
agent and consul-general at Cairo, thus return- 
ing to the scene of his first triumphs. 

Kitchener of Khartoum has proved his mettle 
in many and varied capacities. He is one of 
those remarkable Englishmen whose mission it is 
to rule countries which have come under British 
dominion during the extension of world-wide 
empire. He was recently created an earl by 
King George and has received many distinguish- 
ing honors. 

Many stories are told of him, a characteristic 
one being his reply to the War Office, which sent 
him obsolete guns when he asked for the newest. 
He is reported to have sent the sarcastic reply, 
"I can throw stones at the enemy myself." 

SIR JOHN RUSHWORTH JELLICOE 

SIR JOHN RUSHWORTH JELLICOE, 
has recently been made Vice-Admiral 
Commander-in-Chief of the British Home 
Fleet. He is fifty-five years old and has spent 
forty-two years in the Navy. As a lieutenant 
he was present at the bombardment of Alexandria 
and afterward took part in the battle of Tel-el- 
Kebir as a member of the Naval Brigade. At 
the end of this war he was presented with the 
Khedive's Bronze Star for his gallant service. 



[26 



EUROPE AT WAR 



When the ill-fated Victoria was rammed by 
the Camperdown and sent to the bottom of the 
Mediterranean Sea, JelUcoe was seriously ill with 
the Malta fever and confined in the hospital 
quarters of the ship. Sir John Tryon and more 
than six hundred officers and men lost their lives, 
but "Jack" Jellicoe escaped. 

"How?" he e.xclaimed recently, in speaking 
of the incident. "I do not quite know myself." 

Suffice it to state thathistemperatureregistered 
at 103 shortly before the collision, and when he 
was fished out and landed aboard the rescuing 
ship it was normal, and normal it remained. 

Admiral Jellicoe was sent to China in command 
of a naval brigade in 1898 to help subdue the 
Boxer Rebellion, and later he acted as Cfiief 
of Staff to Admiral Edward Seymour during the 
attempted relief of the Pekin Legations in igoo. 

Severely wounded by a buUet through his lungs 
at Teitsang, when he recovered the German 
Emperor conferred upon him the Order of the 
Red Eagle and presented him with swords for his 
great service to the world in general and the 
Germans in particular who were involved in the 
Chinese Rebellion. 

Returning from China an invalid, he married 
Florence Gwendoline Cayzer, in 1902. 

This picturesque sea-fighter served as rear- 
admiral in the Atlantic Fleet in 1907-8 and be- 
came Lord Commissioner of the Admiralty and 
Controller of the Navy in 1908-10. He became 
commander of the Second Squadron of the Home 
Fleet in 1911-12. On July 23rd last, he was 
appointed Vice- Admiral and Commander-in-Chief 
of the British Home Fleet, and to him was sent 
that momentous cablegram when England issued 
her declaration of war — " Capture the enemy or 
destroy them." 

Admiral Jellicoe is regarded by the English 
as responsible more than any other officer for 
the mar\'elous progress in the naval gunnery 
in the English fleet. The destinies of the British 
Navy are now in his hands. 

MARQUIS ANTONIO DI SAN GIULIANO 

THE Marquis di San Giuhano controls the 
foreign destinies of Italy. He is cre- 
dited with plunging Italy into one war 
and keeping her aloof from another. He brought 
about the war with Turkey, but is opposed to 
helping Germany and Austria. 



The Italian Minister of Foreign Affairs belongs 
to an ancient Sicilian family of Norman descent, 
and was bom in 1853. He is an aristocrat to 
the core. Devoting himself to national pro- 
blems, and being well informed, he entered 
public hfe as a senator. At first, on account of 
his great fluency, he was regarded as a seeker 
after place and power. His first official appoint- 
ment was to an inferior position of Under Secre- 
tary in the Department of Agriculture. Upon 
his own urgent appeal he was transferred to the 
foreign department — a really momentous event, 
as it proved for Italy. He made such an im- 
pression that when the Pelloux Cabinet came 
into power, in 1899, he was made Postmaster- 
General, a post that was entirely uncongenial 
to him. 

But upon the Cabinet's reconstruction, he at- 
tained his goal, becoming head of the foreign 
office. Here he came in direct contact with the 
King, who for long was imable to understand 
the extraordinary secretiveness of his Minister. 
But the icing's confidence was at last gained 
by their mutual interest in old coins, curios, 
ancient monuments, etc. 

San Giuliano has been an extensive traveler 
In Soudan and Abyssinia, in Asia, and especially 
in the Balkan States. Through the Triple 
Alliance, he became the repository of the secrets 
of the Austrian and German Alliance, of the 
intrigues between Russians and the Turks, and 
the spy system of Austria, all which, keeping 
to himself, made him the mystery incarnate of 
Europe. Pressed to tell what he knew, he always 
replied: "I'll tell everjlhing when the time 
comes." 

As a former Ambassador to Britain he ap- 
peared everything that an Italian should be, 
polished and suave, impeccable in taste, original 
and brilhant — indeed, MachiavelUan. At home 
he exhibited many talents, literary and artistic, 
which he attributed largely to the influence of his 
mother, a daughter of the Prince of Cassaro, a 
great social leader. At one time he owned the 
leading journal in Italy, and to that and other 
periodicals he contributed largely. Upon the 
drama of the day, he is a recognized authority, 
as well as on art. He is a student and a lecturer. 
The distinguished Italian is well remembered in 
America, having spent a considerable time in the 
United States during the Interparliamentary 



OTHER PERSONAGES 



127 



Union at St. Louis in 1904, as the president of the 
Italian Delegation. As a result of the Italian- 
Turkish War, the King created him a Knight of 
the Order of the Annunciation, which invested 
him with the titular designation of cousin of the 
King and almost royal prerogatives. 

PRIME MINISTER NIKOLA PASHITCH 

NIKOLA PASHITCH, the Prime Minister 
of Servia,the Uttle kingdom around which 
rages the European War, is a gray-eyed 
man, 68 years of age, of medium height, high fore- 
head, and long bearded face that shows virility 
and intellect. He was born at Zayenchar, Servia, 
in 1846. Son of a very good family who gave him 
a good education, he later on was sent to the 
Technical Institute in Belgrade, where he re- 
mained for four years, from 1868 to 1872. 

At thirty years of age, Pashitch became a 
military engineer in the Servian-Turkish War 
in 1876. He remained there two years. After 
the war he appeared as a very active member 
of the National Deputies in the Old Radical 
Party. During the struggle of the Serbs he 
forced his way to the official leadership of the 
Radical Party which is now in power in Servia. 
That happened in the year of 1881. 

Realizing that his people were not making 
progress, his spirit revolted, and, in 1883, he 
joined the Zayenchar Mutiny, but escaped to 
Russia while twenty-one of his confederates 
were sentenced, executed, and shot. It hap- 
pened that at this time Pashitch was near the 
border of Bulgaria, and therefore he was able 
to escape, only to return later and pick up the 
struggle where he had been forced to stop. 

During the amnesty of 1889 he was made the 
mayor of Belgrade, and it was now that the 
people were able to see this man play an impor- 
tant part in the aid of his countrymen. He be- 
came Prime Minister of Servia. 

He was sent to St. Petersburg as ambassador 
of Servia in 1893, where he won the great admira- 
tion of noted diplomats in that capital. It was 
at this time that he cemented the friendship of 
Russia and Servia which exists so strongly to-day. 

Pashitch was accused in 1899 of stirring up a 
mutiny. He was tried and sentenced, but fought 
imprisonment. The charge was finally suppressed 
at the intervention of Russia, where he had 
already gained impressive respect. 



The people believed in his great personality 
and character, and he was made Minister of 
Foreign Affairs after the assassination of Alex- 
ander, King of Servia. When Peter became 
King of Servia he was made Prime Minister. 

In Germany, Pashitch is looked upon as the 
creator of the Balkan Alliance. 

ADMIRAL HUGO VON POHL 

THE chief of the admiralty staflf in Ger- 
many is a mild gentleman 59 years of 
age. Admiral Hugo Pohl was bom in 
Breslau on the 25th of August, 1855. When 
he was only twenty-one years of age, in 1876, 
he became lieutenant in the Imperial German 
navy and three years later was made a first 
Ueutenant. He became lieutenant-captain on 
the scouting cruiser Carola in 1887. His next 
commission was with the military department 
of the Imperial naval office, and later he became 
officer on the ironclad Wiirtemberg. 

His ability gained his steady promotion and he 
was made korvette-captain and leader of the 
central office of the Imperial naval board in 1894. 
Four years afterward he became frigate-captain 
and commander of the ironclad Mgir. His next 
ship was the cruiser Hansa. He became captain 
at sea in 1900. Witliin five years he was a com- 
modore in charge of the scouting ships, vnth the 
duties of second admiral of the first squadron. 
It befell him to take charge of the work of setting 
up the new naval stations from Kiel to Sonderberg 
in Schleswig in 190S. He was awarded for his 
work in connection with that undertaking by 
being promoted to vice-admiral in 1909. 

Admiral Pohl (up to the outbreak of the pres- 
ent European difficulties) is one of the few com- 
manding German naval authorities who have been 
on a German ship when it exchanged the actual 
shots of war. The only opportunity Germany 
has had to try out the navy, since Admiral von 
Tirpitz renovated it, was at the forts at Taku, 
China, in 1900, while the Boxers were active. 

Admiral Pohl, like his superior, Admiral von 
Tirpitz, is an exponent of a large navy for Ger- 
many. He would divide the fleet into two 
squadrons, one to be kept in the North Sea in 
order to protect the German coast, and the other 
squadron to roam the world's waters seeking 
prizes and doing what it can to destroy property 
of the enemy. 



128 



EUROPE AT WAR 



With the Kaiser he is extremely popular and 
wears, as a gift from his sovereign, the medal 
of the second class (with black) Order of the 
Crown. The Czar, whose ships Von Pohl must 
try to destroy, has bestowed on him the St. Stanis- 
laus Order. 

COUNT HELMUTH VON MOLTKE 

GENERAL MOLTKE, who, as chief of 
stafi, is credited with the disposition 
and direction of the German forces at 
the outbreak of this war, is four years older than 
his French antagonist, General Jofire. General 
von Moltke looks what he is, a t3T)ical product 
of German miUtarism, face like a mask, rigid, 
formal, official. 

Like Admiral von Tirpitz, Chancellor Beth- 
mann-Hollweg, Furstenberg, and Von der Goltz, 
he is a "Kaiserman"; that is to say, he is now, 
and has for many years been, a favorite of the 
Kaiser, holding his position by a combination of 
favor and ability — though rumor has several 
times declared that his star at court had grown 
dim and that only the Kaiser's inability to find a 
Suitable successor had kept him where he was. 
When his uncle, the famous field marshal Von 
Moltke, died in 1891, the present general became 
aide-de-camp to the Kaiser and has been chief of 
the general stafi of the army since February, 1904. 
General von Moltke has not shown himself to 
be a great military genius. Many believe him 
a less able strategist than General von der Goltz. 
His promotion to chief of staff caused a good 
deal of unfavorable comment which has how- 
ever disappeared with time and the evidence that 
Von Moltke is able to handle an extraordinary 
amount of work. 

EMPEROR FRANCIS JOSEPH 

A BROKEN down old man, eighty-four 
years of age, who holds down the destinies 
of Austria, precipitated the present war 
in Europe. His tragic career began sLxty-six 
years ago, when on December 2, 1848, as a slim, 
pale, delicate youth of eighteen, he found himself 
suddenly confronted by a throne. Two weak- 
willed gentlemen, in turn, somewhat frightened 
at the responsibiUty of warring states within 
their Empire, successively laid down its crown 
with immense relief, and left the beardless student 



only recently out of the famous Theresianum 
College, to assume its burden. 

As to whether he, too, at that age, might have 
exhibited some of the wavering spirit of his father, 
Archduke Francis Charles, and his uncle, the 
Emperor Ferdinand of Austria, had it not been 
for his mercOessly ambitious mother, the Princess 
Sophia, only the words in which he greeted his 
new honor can give us any clue: "Oh, my youth! 
Thou art forever gone from me!" 

Yet with those words on his lips he put that 
youth behind him, mounted the throne, and 
became Emperor of Austria, destined to go down 
in history as one of the commanding figures of his 
age. 

He found his empire composed of seventeen 
warring kingdoms, chief of which was Hungary. 
For nineteen years, internal dissensions and ex- 
ternal aggressions engaged his attention, yet in 
aU this time only two Little principaUries shpped 
from his grasp. 

Recognizing in Hungary, however, a spirit 
of indejjendence that could not be quenched, 
he granted, in 1867, the organization of the dual 
monarchy of Austria-Hungarj', each countrj^ 
retaining control of its internal affairs, but uniting 
in the selection of ministers of finance, war and 
foreign affairs, to act for both countries under 
one Emperor. 

With inimitable diplomacy, Francis Joseph, 
"the Reform Emperor," as he came to be known 
at the time of the establishment of the dual 
monarchy, while thus granting constitutional 
government to his people, has managed, because 
of the warring elements which make up his two 
Parliaments, to retain the real reins of govern- 
ment in his own hands. 

His people have sorrowed with him in the suc- 
cession of tragedies which he has suffered: first, 
the execution of his brother, the Emperor Maxi- 
milian, in Mexico; then the tragic death of his 
son, the Crown Prince Rudolph, foimd slain in 
his hunting lodge with the Baroness Maria Vet- 
sera; to be followed in the year of his golden 
jubilee by the assassination of his wife, the Em- 
press Elizabeth; and, finally by that event which 
has plunged all Europe into war, the assassination 
of the heir-apparent, the Archduke Ferdinand, 
and his morganatic wife, the Countess Sophie 
Chotek, while on a visit to the Bosnian capital. 

For years the press and public have been await- 



OTHER PERSONAGES 



129 



ing the death of this wonderful, wise old Emperor, 
and the loosing of the bonds which have held his 
varying peoples together, as the signal for a 
general Continental war, yet it seems that not 
even to Death is he willing to delegate his kingly 
prerogative. Years ago, the old German Emperor 
said of him: "Francis Joseph has three ministers 
of the whole monarchy, eight of Austria, ten of 
Hungary, and three of Croatia — in all, twenty- 
four — yet when anything is to be done, he has 
to do it himself." 

SIR JOHN DENTON PINKSTONE 
FRENCH 

SIR JOHN FRENCH, si.xty-two years of 
age, is one of the two foremost active gen- 
erals of the British Army. He stands, with 
the one exception of Secretary of War Earl Kit- 
chener, as probably the most striking mili tary 
figure in England. 

His eventful career has led him to India, Africa, 
and Canada, and always with brilliant results. 
In the Boer War he was the one English general 
who was uniformly successful. His soldiers were 
popularly supposed to have had no sleep. At the 
time of the Siege of Kimberley, he was shut up in 
Ladysmith with the Boer lines ever circling closer 
and no retreat possible for the English troops 
even if they had wanted it. But if Rimberley, 
with its great treasure of diamonds, was to be 
saved from the Boers, the beleaguered troops had 
to be reUeved and Sir John was apparently the 
only man who could accomphsh it. The Boers 
were allowing trains to run out of Ladysmith car- 
rying the women and children to safety, and in one 
these — by squeezing under the seat of a second- 
class carriage — French managed to escape. Once 
outside the Boer Unes, he made his way to the 
Cape, where he was put in charge of about eight 
thousand cavalrymen. With horses dropping 
every mile, stopping only long enough to annihilate 
every Boer force sent to impede his progress, he 
swept through the Free State, riding both day and 
night until he reached Kimberley. He was just 
in time. Two days more would have seen its en- 
forced surrender. 

His family intended Sir John for the Church, 
but when he was fourteen he chose the navy 
instead and joined the Britannia. However, 
he left the navy for the army in 1874 and in a 
long series of battles he soon proved his military 



skill. He commanded the 19th Hussars from 
1889 to 1893, rising steadily in rank after that 
until, in 1907, he was made Inspector General 
of the Forces, and in 1913 Field Marshal. 

His once fair hair is gray now, but his Irish 
blue eyes have not lost their sparkle, and his 
keenness for long tramps has kept down the 
extra pounds which his short, stocky figure has 
shown a tendency to put on. 

WINSTON SPENCER CHURCHILL 

THE commanding personaUty in the Admir- 
ralty Office in London during the present 
crisis is a tall, slender, clean-shaven, 
gentleman of scholarly bearing, a journalist 
and soldier, forty years of age, who came to the 
front in the South African war. 

Winston Churchill, the First Lord of the Ad- 
miralty since 191 1, is half American in his parent- 
age. His mother was Jennie Jerome, of New 
York, before her marriage to the late Lord Ran- 
dolph Churchill. The young statesman was born 
November 30th, 1874, and sent to Harrow when 
14 years old. 

His military training began at nineteen years 
of age, when he entered Sandhurst in 1893, and 
became heutenant in the Fourth Hussars two 
years later, when he entered the army. He served 
with the Spanish forces in Cuba, where he won 
his first order, " MiUtary Merit of the First Class, " 
and incidentally acted as special correspondent of 
the Daily Graphic. 

Churchill's first experience in actual warfare 
was when the Fourth Hussars were ordered to 
India. Here he fought on the Malakand Front- 
ier. In 1898 he was attached as orderly to the 
first expedition, joining the Twenty-first Lan- 
cers to accompany Lord Kitchener up the Nile 
for the reconquest of Khartoum. His interesting 
and outspoken correspondence for the Morning 
Post attracted wide attention. 

Continuing as war correspondent, he rushed 
off to South Africa, where he was captured by the 
Boers and made his adventurous escape from 
Pretoria prison. It was at this time that the 
Boers, with what Mark Twain designated as 
"unconscious humor," posted the following des- 
scription of him: "Englishman, 25 years old, 
about five feet eight inches high, indifferent 
build, walks a little with a bend forward, pale 
appearance, red brownish hair, small mustache, 



I30 



EUROPE AT WAR 



hardly perceptible, talks through his nose, can- 
not pronounce the letter 'S' properly and does 
not know any Dutch." 

The American people first made their acquaint- 
ance with their brilliant young English cousin 
when he visited the United States in 1900 to lec- 
ture on the Boer War. Churchill was elected 
member of Parliament for Oldham, as a Conser- 
vative. He soon went over to the Liberals, and 
returned to the House as Under Secretary for 
the Colonies (1906-1908). 

Upon the reconstruction of the Government 
under Mr. Asquith in 1908, Churchill became 
president of the Board of Trade (1908-1910). 
He was advanced to the post of Home Secretary 
in 19 10 and he became head of the navy, as First 
Lord of the Admiralty, in 191 1. He announced 
that he purposed to make British naval su- 
premacy endure at any cost, a policy that has 
given the British navy a 60 per cent, advantage 
in dreadnoughts over Germany in the present 
conflict. 

GENERAL PAU 

GENERAL PAU is the French Commander 
next in rank to General Joffre. It is proof 
of his popularity and efficiency that, 
having been retired for age at sixty-seven, he had 
resumed active service before the outbreak of the 
present war as a result of a popular campaign to 
reinstate him. Short, thick-set, thoroughly 

French in manner, he is even a more complete 
contrast than is General Joffre to the rigid type 
of German Commander. 

CROWN PRINCE FREDERICK WILLIAM 
VICTOR 

THE most extraordinary figure in Europe 
to-day is the young Cro^Ti Prince of 
Germany, thirty-two years of age. It is 
significant that he has a profound admiration for 
Napoleon. He believes implicitly in rule by 
divine right. Several years ago his appearance 
at the Reichstag, to dissent from the Chancellor's 
proposed peaceful arrangement vnih France 
about Morocco, made him the leader of the war- 
seeking element in Germany, and incidentally 
led to considerable friction with his imperial 
father. 

The Crown Prince is tall, slim, and impulsive. 
His full name is Frederick- WilUam-Victor-August- 



Emst. The late Queen Victoria, his great grand- 
mother, was his godmother. After completing a 
course at the militarj' cadet institution at Ploen, 
like the Kaiser, and his grandfather, Emperor 
Frederick, he attended Bonn University. On the 
completion of his university course in the spring 
of 1903 he set out on his travels. 

To train him for his future responsibilities 
he was first sent to the offices of the Potsdam 
provincial government for study of local adminis- 
tration. Then he was turned over to the Prus- 
sian Ministry of the Interior to acquaint himself 
with the intricate routine through which two 
thirds of the German people are governed. Since 
then the Crown Prince has studied naval adminis- 
tration at the Admiralty, beside acquiring some 
knowledge of the workings of Bismarckian 
diplomacy at the Foreign Office. 

He married the Duchess Cecilie of Mecklen- 
burg-Schwerin, in 1905. The Kaiser has re- 
marked of his hotheaded son: "Well, William 
is no diplomat. I will admit it, but I beheve 
the feDow has got marrow in his bones. He 
will turn out to be our Moltke yet." 

RENE VIVIANI 

RENE VIVI,\NI, the present Prime Minis- 
ter in France, was bom in Algeria. His 
success in French politics has been due 
to his interest in labor. When the office of Minis- 
ter of Labor was created by the Clemenceau 
Government in 1906, he was the first man to fill 
it. Although the next Government was of an 
opposing faction, M. Viviani still was kept at his 
post. In accordance with his labor sympathies, 
he worked consistently against the law providing 
for a compulsory three-year period of service in 
the army, in favor of which the country recently 
voted. 

M. Viviani is an able man, but his strong 
points are not particularly war and diplomacy. 

BARON VON DER GOLTZ 

WHEN the Bulgars and the Servians 
drove the Turks out of Thrace and 
Macedonia two years ago, the rest of 
Europe took the rout as a German defeat. Super- 
ficially they were right. The organization and 
mobilization of the Turkish army were entirely 
German in plan and the beaten Turks fought in 
German uniform with German artillery and rifles. 



OTHER PERSONAGES 



131 



The correspondents who so glibly drew these con- 
clusions very rarely modified them by additional 
information as to how plans and organizations, ex- 
cellent in themselves, had been disregarded or in- 
eflSciently carried out. One can no more blame a 
German rifle for missing fire with French ammu- 
nition than one can draw conclusions about 
Krupp artillery served by raw recruits. 

Field Marshal von der Goltz taught the Turk- 
ish army all that it ever knew about modem 
fighting except courage, which it is imnecessary 
to teach a Turk. He has also taught the German 
army much of what it knows of the technique of 
fighting, and the German army is not handicapped 
by Kismet nor by unmihtary poUtics. Baron 
von der Goltz out of his uniform would fit con- 
vincingly into a professor's chair at a university. 
He is now seventy years old, and for more than 
fifty years of his hfe has been working and writing 
and fighting. Being a first rate fighting man has 
not hindered his writing a number of historical 
books which are standards in and out of Germany. 

PRIME MINISTER IVAN GOREMYKIN 
OF RUSSIA 

A STRONG hand on the wheel of statecraft 
in Russia to-day is that of the economist 
and sociologist, Prime Minister Ivan 
Goremykin. 

Goremykin was bom in Petrograd in 1848. 
He received a good academic training in that 
city and graduated from a university. He 
became interested in his country and when 
twenty-one years published his first book. Later 
on he wrote a history of the Polish peasants, 
and with the success of this effort he added an- 
other volume entitled "The Land of the Russian 
Peasants." These efforts of study in things per- 
taining to his country directed the attention of 
his Government sufficiently to make him Chief of 
the Emigration Department into Siberia. 

Eventually he rose to be Minister of the In- 
terior, and in 1906, Prime Minister. The country 
was in a revolutionary state. Count Witte had 
resigned. Goremykin declared to the Duma that 
amnesty was impossible in Russia in the case of 
persons guilty of murder or other acts of violence. 
He also declared that the agrarian possibilities 
could be worked only by time. He then sub- 



mitted a programme of reform : The Duma would 
not accept these reforms. Revolutionary dis- 
turbances recommenced. The massacre of the 
Jews took place and a clash came when the 
agrarian proposals were renewed. Goremykin 
was immediately replaced by Stolypin, who was 
later assassinated. 

During the next few years Goremykin took 
no active part in any ofl&cial position, but acted 
as advisory functionary to the Czar in all mat- 
ters relating to economic and social questions. 

Goremykin's plan for the salvation of Russia 
is economic. His whole wish is to distribute 
the people over the different territories. They 
call him an old-time conservative who desires 
things to go his way in slow, steady paces. 

GENERAL PUTNIK OF SERVIA 

THE commander-in-chief of the Servian 
Army, General Radumi Putnik, is a self- 
made man about sixty-five years of age, 
who has worked himself up through the Servian 
wars and revolutions until to-day he stands a 
conspicuous figure before the world. He was bom 
about 1849 ^ 3, small place near Belgrade in the 
southern part of Austria. He is a thorough 
Servian despite this fact. He is a small man, 
of large, round head, chestnut brown eye, and a 
beard cut in Van Dyke fashion. His whole occu- 
pation has been as a soldier. 

General Putnik gained his earliest training in 
a military academy which then existed in Ser- 
via. He joined the army voluntarily. Later on 
he went to France to study the military tactics 
of Napoleon. These experiences merely gave 
him satisfaction, as he has not succumbed to any 
method but his own. He is practicaUy a self- 
taught man. 

In the recent war between the Balkan alUes 
he was chief of staff of the Servian Army. 

As a general he strips his uniform of all its 
trappings and tinsel and appears in plain reg- 
imental apparel with the two straps on his 
shoulders as insignia of his rank. He has every 
opportunity to make large sums of money, but 
as his wants are simple he uses his funds to en- 
dow schools. During the Balkan troubles he 
directed his forces from a small shanty by the 
use of the telephone. 



THE ROYAL RELATIVES OF EUROPE 

BY GEORGE H. MERRITT 



EUROPE at war can almost be likened to a 
huge family quarrel. The royal houses, 
especially the countries which are most 
vitally concerned by the war, are practically all 
of the same Germanic stock, and almost of one 
blood. There have been so many intermarriages 
between these houses that German blood domi- 
nates every European throne with the exception 
of the two small kingdoms of Servia and Monte- 
negro. 

There are several great family groups in which 
the custom of intermarriage is continuously car- 
ried on from generation to generation, but which 
very seldom extends to the families of other 
groups. Sometimes, as in the case of the House of 
Hapsburg and the Royal House of Hohenzollern 
or Prussia, a direct matrimonial alliance almost 
never occurs; there has not been a marriage be- 
tween these two houses wthin the last two hun- 
dred years. In the south of Europe the Houses 
of Hapsburg, Savoy, Bavaria, Saxony, and Bour- 
bon seem to form one combination of these family 
groups, while in the north the principal combina- 
tion is made up of the House of Hohenzollern- 
Prussia, Great Britain, Denmark, Russia, and the 
Saxon Duchies. 

Most of the houses within the groups are made 
up of several branches, one reigning line and cadet 
[younger son] lines, and, of course, marriages be- 
tween these different branches are of much more 
frequent occurrence than between separate houses. 
As it is common custom for first cousins to marry, 
and even uncles with nieces, the entire marriage 
system becomes most intricate and complex. 
Almost every one in a family, consisting of several 
branches, is, through marriage, verj' closely con- 
nected with every other member of the family, and 
therefore it often becomes difficult to determine 
just who are the first cousins and who the second 
cousins, etc. 

All the reigning princes of the Northern Eu- 
rope are closely related in this way. Emperor 
William of Germany, in making war on Great 
Britain and Russia, is likewise at war wth his 
cousins. King George V of Great Britain and 
Czar Nicholas II of Russia are first cousins through 
their mothers, who were daughters of the King 



Christian IX, of Denmark. Everyone who has 
seen the pictures of these two rulers has un- 
doubtedly noticed their family resemblance. Will- 
iam II of Germany is the first cousin of George 
V, as his mother, Victoria, was the sister of 
George's father, Edward VII of Great Britain. 
Moreover, Nicholas married another first cousin 
of both George and William, the Czarina's mother 
being another sister of King Edward VII. Finally 
George, William, and Nicholas are, through their 
fathers, great-grandsons of Charles, Duke of 
Mecklenburg-Strelitz, who died in 1752; and Wil- 
liam and Nicholas are descended from King Fred- 
erick-William III, of Prussia. Other cousins of 
King George and Czar Nicholas, also grandsons of 
Christian IX of Denmark, are Christian X of Den- 
mark, Constantine I of Greece, and Ernst August, 
Duke of Brunswick, who is also the son-in-law of 
Emperor WilUam II. 

There are in all more than forty sovereign 
houses of Europe, but all do not reign over in- 
dependent lands or principalities. Although 
many of these houses possess only the title of 
sovereignty and the right of royal privileges, they 
are equal in rank to all reigning houses, and their 
members intermarry freely without loss of title or 
rank. This is a limited class, however, for below 
these in rank are other houses designated as 
"mediatised" houses, and ranked below these in 
turn are the non-royal houses. It is usual that 
if a member of a sovereign house, ranked as a 
royal prince, marries into a house of lower or non- 
royal rank, his children, in Germany and Austria, 
cannot succeed to his titles, but become of lower 
rank. Some of these non-royal titles have been 
bestowed to give a recognized rank to the mor- 
ganatic [non-royal] wives and children of royal 
princes. Such, for examples, are the princes of 
Battenberg, or the title of Duchess of Hohen- 
berg, bestowed upon the consort of Arch- 
duke Franz Ferdinand, heir to the Austrian 
throne, who uith his wife was recently assassi- 
nated. 

Of these sovereign houses of the first rank, 
many have arisen from cadet lines of older houses, 
where princes of cadet lines have either fallen 
heir to by marriage or have been elected to fill the 



132 



ROYAL RELATIVES 



^33 



thrones of principalities. Most notable among 
these houses which have been elected to fill the 
thrones of different countries are the royal houses 
of Greece, Belgium, and Norway. Most notable 
among the houses which have fallen heir to thrones 
through marriages are the royal houses of Russia 
and of Great Britain. 

The history of the growth of these families 
from cadet rank to their present importance is 
full of interest. The most notable development 
of such a cadet line to royal power is that of the 
House of Sa.xe-Coburg-Gotha. To-day princes 
of this house are reigning in Great Britain, Bel- 
gium, and Bulgaria, and also held the throne of 
Portugal until that country became a republic. 
Princes of the House of Oldenburg to-day reign 
in Denmark, Greece, Norway, and Russia. The 
House of Bourbon, at one time mighty in the e.x- 
tent of its cadet lines, ruled in France, Spain, 
Naples, and Parma. The princes of Hohenzollern 
to-day reign in Prussia and Roumania. 

The House of Hohenzollern. — Prussia: 
The growth of the House of HohenzoUern 
from its early holdings as Counts of Zollern in 
nil to its present dominance of the whole Ger- 
man Empire has been due to the foresight and 
bravery of its warlike princes. According to the 
law of primogeniture everywhere in force in Eu- 
rope, all the landed estates and titles descend to 
the eldest son. Since there seems to be no reason 
for building new cadet lines, as there are no titles 
to succeed to, few of the younger sons of the royal 
families build up cadet lines of their own. When 
they do the line is not long-lived. Many of the 
}ounger sons follow a soldier's life, and many 
never marry. Usually only the first two sons 
marry early. 

In Prussia, the eldest son is known as the Crown 
Prmce; all other males of the family become 
Princes of Prussia. Emperor William has si.x 
sons, four of whom are married. This generation 
is tending toward the northward for their matri- 
monial alliances. There seems to be a tendency 
to solidify all parts of the German Empire by 
bringing all parts of other princely possessions 
into closer contact with the royal family. The 
marriage between the Emperor's daughter, Vic- 
toria Louise and the young prince of Cumberland, 
now the Duke of Brunswick, was also probably 
made with this end in view. 



By the marriage of his sisters, William II is the 
brother-in-law of the hereditary Prince of Sa.xe- 
Memingen, of Adolph, Prince of Schaumburg- 
Lippe, Frederick Charles, Prince of Hesse, and 
to King Constantine I of Greece. He is a nephew 
of the Grand Duchess of Baden, and counts among 
his other Prussian cousins the Duchess of Con- 
naught of Great Britain. 

The principal houses allied with the Prussians 
by marriage during the last century are Anhalt, 
Mecklenburg-Schwerin, Orange-Nassau, now rul- 
ing in the Netherlands in the person of Queen 
Wilhelmina, Hesse-Cassel, Hesse-Darmstadt, 
Great Britain, and Mecklenburg-StreUtz. 

In every such alliance there were two or three 
marriages, either an intermarriage during the 
same generation, or a return marriage during 
the next generation. There were five marriages 
between the House of Orange-Nassau and Prussia 
between 1791 and 187S. 

The House of Hapsbukg — Lorraine: This 
is an immense family reigning in Austria- 
Hungary. There are besides the Imperial Ime at 
least three others, large and flourishing. Tliis 
family, belonging to the great family group of 
Southern Europe, is mainly allied with the Houses 
of Bourbon-Sicilies, Bavaria, Bourbon-Parma, 
Spain, Savoy-Italy, Belgium, and Sa.xony. The 
family takes it names from its earlier possessions, 
the Duchy of Lorraine, which it gave up when the 
first of its princes, Francis-Stephen of Lorraine, 
married the Austrian heiress of Hapsburg, Maria 
Theresa, and succeeded to the empire. 

The Emperor Fraticis Joseph is eighty-four 
years old and has reigned since he was eighteen. 
His wife, the Empress Elisabeth, a Duchess of 
Bavaria, was assassinated in 1S98 at Geneva by 
an ItaHan anarchist. In 18S9 his only son, the 
Crown Prince Rudolph, died in a mysterious and 
tragic way. In July, his successor and his wife 
were killed by an assassin. In 1867 he mourned 
the death of his favorite brother, who was known 
as Ma.ximilian, the ill-fated Emperor of Mexico. 
He has been a great-grandfather for ten years. 

His grand-nephew, the Archduke Charles Fran- 
cis Joseph is next in line of succession. He is 
twenty-seven years of age, the son of the Archduke 
Otto, and Marie Josephine, sister of the King of 
Saxony. He is married to Zita, Princess of Parma. 

One of the Archduchesses of Austria-Teschen, 



134 



EUROPE AT WAR 



is the Queen Mother of Spain. Her family is 
extremely wealthy, and her brother, the Archduke 
Frederick, now the main support of the aged em- 
peror, is accoimted as one of the richest princes 
in the world. 

Alfonso XIII, King of Spain, is the only ruling 
connection of Emperor Francis Joseph, with the 
exception of King Frederick August III of Saxony 
who married an Austrian Archduchess. The King 
of Spain inherits the famous "Hapsburg lip" 
which is seen in so many of the male members 
and descendants of this family — a heavy, over- 
hung, pendant lip. 

The Saxon Houses: The Saxon Royal House 
has given more kings and important princes to 
Europe throughout its history, and to-day is 
better represented by descendant sovereign fami- 
Ues than any other royal line. After many early 
vicissitudes it divided definitely in 1640 into two 
branches, Saxe-Weimar and Saxe-Gotha. Saxe- 
Gotha again divided in 1672 into four main sub- 
branches, Saxe-Gotha Altenburg, — Saxe-Mein- 
ingen, Saxe-Hildburghausen, and Saxe-Coburg- 
Saalfield. 

The Family of Saxe-Coburg-Gotha: From 
the least important this family has come to 
be the greatest and largest of the Houses of Saxony 
and has already given birth to four lines of Idngs: 

1. Prince Leopold in 18 16 was married to 
Charlotte, only child of King George IV of Great 
Britain and heir to the British throne. But 
Princess Charlotte and her baby both died in 181 7. 
Later probably because of his importance through 
this marriage and because of his well-known 
popularity, the Belgian people, when they became 
an independent nation in 1831, offered him that 
throne; he accepted and became the first King of 
Belgium as Leopold I, and the founder of the 
present hne of kings of Belgium. The present 
King Albert of Belgium is his grandson. 

2. In 1818 Leopold's sister, Victoria, was 
married to Prince Edward of Great Britain. The 
only child of this marriage was Queen Victoria, 
who succeeded to the English throne in 1837. 
Prince Albert of Saxe-Coburg-Gotha became the 
husband of the Queen in 1840, the Prince Consort 
of Great Britain, and the founder of the new Ger- 
man djmasty in England. 

3. Of the children of Prince Ferdinand of 
Saxe-Coburg-Gotha, the eldest of his three sons 



became by his marriage to Maria II, Queen of 
Portugal, titular King of that country as Fer- 
dinand II, and so founded the Saxe-Coburg 
dynasty of Portugal. 

Manuel II, ex-King of Portugal, through his 
grandmother. Princess Maria-Pia of Savoy, is 
related to the royal family in Italy, as she was a 
sister of King Humbert I of Italy and also of 
Amadeus of Aosta, who was King of Spain from 
1870 to 1873. Through his wife, he is the son-in-law 
of William, the present royal prince of Hohen- 
zollern, and a nephew of Ferdinand, Crown Prince 
of Roumania. 

4. The youngest son died childless and the 
second son, August, became the founder of the 
German branch of this family. August married 
a Princess of Orleans and of this marriage in 1843 
there were four children, three of whom are now 
living. The youngest son was elected Hereditary 
Prince of Bulgaria in 1887 and became its Czar 
{Czar Ferdinand I of Bulgaria) in 1908; he founds 
a new reigning dynasty, the fourth, of the Saxe- 
Coburg-Gothian family. 

All the heads of these Saxon famihes — the 
reigning princes — are Dukes. This title in Ger- 
many and Austria is higher than that of Prince 
and indicates, along with the increased dignity 
of the title, the holding and government of landed 
possessions. Dukes rank between Kings and 
Princes; Grand Dukes are a higher class of Dukes 
and are Kings in every way except in actual title. 

The family name of this illustrious House of 
Saxe-Coburg-Gotha is Wettin. So it is, therefore, 
correct to speak of the King of Great Britain as 
George Wettin, the King of Belgium as Albert 
Wettin, and the ex-King of Portugal as Manuel 
Wettin, etc. 

The Royal Family of Great Britain: Al- 
though the Saxe-Coburg-Gotha dynasty was 
founded in Great Britain by the marriage of Prince 
Albert to Queen Victoria of the House of Bruns- 
wick-Liineburg, the royal dynasty really began 
with the accession of Queen Victoria's oldest son 
to the throne as King Edward VII. King Edward 
had three brothers and five sisters, and two of the 
brothers, as has already been related fell heir in 
turn to the Duchy of Saxe-Coburg-Gotha. The 
other brother is Prince Arthur, the Duke of Con- 
naught, and now Governor General of Canada. 
The oldest sister, Victoria, was the wife of Em- 



ROYAL RELATIVES 



135 



peror Frederick of Germany, and the second sister 
was the Grand Duchess of Hesse; both are now 
deceased. The other sisters are still living; Helen 
is the wife of Prince Christian of Schleswig-Hol- 
stein, Louise is the widow of the recently deceased 
John Campbell, Duke of Argyll, and Beatrice is 
the widow of Prince Henry of Battenberg. With 
an already wide relationship through these mar- 
riages, and those of his brothers, Alfred, Arthur, 
and Leopold, King Edward further augmented 
the royal alliances through his marriage with 
Princess Alexandra of Denmark, and left to his 
successor. King George V, relationships with all 
the principal royal families of Northern Europe. 

King George V, of Great Britain was born in 
1865 and was the only surviving son when his 
father became King. He has three sisters, — 
Louise, the widow of Alexander Duff, Duke of 
Fife, who died in 1912, Victoria, who is unmarried, 
and Afaude, the Queen of Norway. As a younger 
son he was destined for the nav>', but suddenly 
came into prominence by the death of his elder bro- 
ther in 1892, Prince Albert, Duke of Clarence. In 
1893 Princess Mary of Teck, who was to have 
married Prince Albert, was married to Prince 
George, and they have one daughter. Princess 
Mary, and five sons, — Edward, Prince of Wales, 
and Princes Albert, Henry, George, and John. 
Queen Mary is the daughter of Francis, late Duke 
of Teck, and Princess Mary-Adelaide of Cam- 
bridge, the first cousin of Queen Victoria. Francis 
was a son of the morganatic marriage of Duke 
Alexander of Wurtemburg with Claudia, Coun- 
tess of Rhedey, a daughter of a very old Hun- 
garian House, and therefore the children of King 
George V have new blood in them brought in 
from the noble families of Germany, Austria, 
and Hungary. 

Prince Arthur, Duke of Connaught and Strath- 
em and Count of Sussex, and now Governor 
General of Canada, is sixty-four years old. 
He is married to Princess Louise-Margaret 
of Prussia, the daughter of Prince Frederick- 
Charles of Prussia and Princess Marie-Arme of 
Anhalt. He has three children; Margaret, the 
oldest, is the Crown Princess of Sweden, Prince 
Arthur is married to his cousin. Princess Alexan- 
dra, Duchess of Fife, and Princess Victoria-Patri- 
cia, known as the " Princess Pat, " is unmarried. 

King George V, is uncle by blood to Olaf, 
Crown Prince of Norway, and by marriage with 



Queen Mary to three Princes and three Princesses 
of Teck. He is brother-in-law to King Haakon 
VII of Norway and Prince of Denmark, Duke 
Adolph of Teck, and Prince Ale.xander of Teck. 
He is first cousin on his father's side to Emperor 
William II of Germany, and his brothers and 
sisters, among whom, principally is the Queen 
of Greece; to Ernst-Louis, Grand Duke of Hesse, 
and his four sisters, one of whom is the wife of 
Prince Henry of Prussia and another is the 
Czarina Alice of Russia; to the Crown Princess 
Marie of Roumania and her three sisters, to Prince 
Albert of Schleswig-Holstein and his two sisters; 
to Crown Princess Margaret of Sweden and Prince 
Arthur and Princess Patricia of Connaught; to 
Charles-Edward, Duke of Saxe-Coburg-Gotha 
and his sister. Princess Ale.xander of Teck; and 
to Queen Victoria- Ena of Spain and her brothers. 
Princes Alexander, Leopold, and Maurice of 
Battenberg. On his mother's side King George is 
first cousin to King Christian X of Denmark, 
King Haakon VII of Norway, Princes Harold and 
Gustav of Denmark, Ingeborg, Duchess of Ves- 
trogothia in Sweden, and Princesses Thyra and 
Dagmar of Denmark; to King Constantine I, 
of Greece and his four brothers and two sisters, 
who are Grand Duchesses of Russia, to Czar Nich- 
olas II of Russia and his brother the Grand Duke 
Michael and his two sisters, one of whom is a 
Duchess of Oldenburg; to Ernst-August, Duke 
of Brunswick and Liineburg, and his three sisters. 
Princess Marie-Louise of Baden, Alexandra, 
Grand Duchess of Mecklenburg-Schw'erin, and 
Princess Olga of Cumberland; and to Princes 
Aage, Axel, Eric, and Viggo of Denmark, and their 
sister, Princess Margaret. His oldest cousin is 
the Emperor William II, of Germany, age fifty- 
five, and his youngest cousin is Princess Margaret 
of Denmark, age nineteen. With all these blood 
relations, the number of his second cousins run 
well up into the hundreds. 

The Royal Families of the House of Holstein- 
Oldenburg. The kings of Denmark, Greece, and 
Norway, and the Emperor of Russia are all de- 
scended in direct line from the early German 
kings of Denmark and Norway. 

The Royal Family of Denmark: King 
Christian IX (1818-1906) and Queen Louise had 
three sons and three daughters who all became 
famous. The eldest son succeeded his father as 



136 



EUROPE AT WAR 



King Frederick VIII, and his eldest son in turn 
succeeded him as King Christian X of Denmark. 
The eldest daughter became the vnit of Edward, 
Prince of Wales, and is now the Queen-Mother 
of Great Britain. The second son, Prince William, 
was elected as King of Greece, and began his reign 
there in 1863, as King George I. His eldest son, 
Constantine, now reigns as King Constantine I of 
Greece. Constantine is married to Sophia, a sister 
of the Emperor of Germany. The second daughter 
of King Christian was the wife of the Czar Alex- 
ander III of Russia, and is, therefore, the Queen- 
Mother of that nation. The second son of Fred- 
crick VIII is Prince Charles, who was elected 
King of Norway, as Haakon VII. 

The Russian Royal Family: There has 
not been a Slavic Emperor in Russia since the 
bloody days of strife and intrigue following the 
death of Peter the Great. The male line of the 
House of Romanoff having died out, several 
Empresses with their consorts fought for suprem- 
acy in Russia, and there were several which 
held the throne for a short time. Finally Peter, 
who was the son of Charles-Frederick, Duke of 
Holstein-Gottorp and of Anne, daughter of Peter 
the Great and Catherine I got possession of the 
throne. But only a short while did he reign; his 
wife, Sophia-Augusta, Princess of Anhalt-Zerbst, 
a woman of strong mind and steel determination, 
became jealous of Peter's power, and putting him 
out of the way, seized the government herself. 
As Catherine II, she was a great ruler and govern- 
ed the Russians with an iron hand. Her death 
brought her son by Peter to the throne, and in the 
Czar, Paul, the new dynasty of Holstein-Olden- 
burg-Romanoff was founded. The present Czar, 
Nicholas II o//?Mi5/a, great-great-grandson of Czar 
Paul thus belongs to a wholly Germanic family. 

The Czar's mother is the Princess Dagmar of 
Denmark, and he is therefore, widely related 
through the Danish connections as well as his own. 
In the Russian royal family there are living twenty- 
four Grand Dukes and Princes, five of them the 
Czar's own first cousins. The famil}' is mainly 
allied by marriage with the families or Houses of 
Hesse, Wurtemburg, Greece, Oldenburg, and 
Mecklenburg-Schwerin, although the several 
marriages with each one of these Houses comprise 
only a small part of their widespread alliances. 
During the last century there have been forty 



marriages between the family and other European 
houses. Whole chapters might well be written 
on the extensive alliances and ramifications of 
this House. Beside being related, mostly in the 
same way as his first cousin George V of Great 
Britain to all of that King's cousins and kinsmen, 
he is even more closely allied in relationships, 
strong, if not entirely direct, with the Hohen- 
zollern House of Prussia. 

All of the sons and daughters of this family 
are Grand Dukes and Duchesses of Russia to the 
third generation, that is the sons and grandsons of 
Czars receive the Grand Ducal title, but the 
great-grandsons, unless in the direct royal line, 
become Princes of Russia; the same is true for 
the daughters of the family. The children are 
further named from their father, just as in Sweden 
and other northern countries. The word "vitch" 
means "the son of," so that the present Czar, 
who is Nicholas Alexandro\dtch, is, interpreting 
correctly, Nicholas the son of Alexander. Likewise 
the ending ' ' ovna ' ' means the " daughter of . " The 
title of the Czar is "Emperor and Autocrat of all 
the Russias, Czar of Moscow, Kiev, Vladimir, etc." 
with a string of lesser titles, which if put on a 
single line of type, would stretch out for se\-eral feet. 

The Royal Family of Belgium: Founded in 
1831 by the election of King Leopold I to occupy 
the Belgian throne, the family has thus far pro- 
duced three kings. Beginning with the marriage 
of King Leopold I to Princess Louise of Orleans, 
practically all of the later marriages of the family 
have been with the Southern group of royal houses. 
In this way the family is kindred to the Royal 
Houses of the north only in the male blood line, 
but is closely allied to the Houses of Hapsburg 
Bourbon Orleans, and Bavaria. 

King Leopold I had three children. The eldest 
son succeeded him as King Leopold II. By the 
marriage of this King with Archduchess Marie 
Henriette of Austria he had one son who died 
when he was twenty-three, and three daughters, 
the eldest the wife of Prince Philip of Saxe-Coburg- 
Gotha, the second the widow of the Crown Prmce 
Rudolph of Austria-Hungary, which brought the 
family very near to the Austrain royal house, and 
the third daughter, Clementme, married a few 
years ago to Prince Napoleon Bonaparte. She 
recently gave birth to a male heir of the Bona- 
partes, the only young prince of this generation. 



ROYAL RELATIVES 



137 



The daughter of Leopold I is the ill-fated widow of 
the Emperor Maximilian of Mexico, executed 
there in 1867. She has long been insane and 
is now the inmate of a mad-house. 

The second son of Leopold I was Philip the 
Count of Flanders, married to Princess Marie 
of Hohenzollern, sister of Prince Leopold of 
Hohenzollern and King Charles of Roumania. 
Of his three children, Henriette is the Duchess of 
Vendome — a Bourbon alliance, and Princess 
Josephine is the wife of Prince Charles of Hohen- 
zollern, younger brother of Prince William of 
Hohenzollern and of Crown Prince Ferdinand of 
Roumania, and aunt by marriage of King Manuel 
II of Portugal. The son is King Albert of Belgium, 
who succeeded his uncle Leopold II in 1909. The 
Queen of Belgium is Princess Elizabeth of the 
Ducal House of Bavaria. Through her, King 
Albert is allied to the Crown Prince of Bavaria, 
the Grand Duchess of Luxemburg, the Duke 
of Parma, the late Franz Ferdinand of Austria, 
and the present heir-apparent, Archduke Charles 
Francis Joseph. The King and Queen have two 
sons, Leopold, thirteen years old, and Charles Theo- 
dore, two years younger. There is also a daughter, 
the Princess Marie- Josephine, born in 1906. 

King Peter I of Servia married Princess Zorka, 
the daughter of Prince Nicholas of Montenegro. 
She died in 1890. King Peter succeeded to the 
throne in 1903 on the murder of his predecessor, 
King Alexander. 

King Nicholas I of Montenegro married Milena 
Vucotitch. Of this marriage there are sLx daugh- 
ters and three sons: the third daughter is Queen 
Helen or Elena of Italy. 

The Royal House of Savoy: The illustrious 
House of Savoy begins far back in history with 
Humbert the White-handed Count of Savoy. 
Through many changes in history and war after 
war, the little county became a Principality and 
then a duchy. Finally the Dukes of Savoy became 
kings of Sardinia in 1720, and after a heroic war of 
independence all the Italian states became welde<l 
under the Savoy kings of Italy in 1861. 

The House of Savoy has, like the rest of the 
Houses of South Europe, confined nearly all of its 
marriage -alliances with the great group of South 
Europe farsilies. During the last century the 
majority of the marriages have been with the 
families of Bourbon and Hapsburg- Austria, some 
few with Saxony and Bavari;i. 



The head of the House is Victor Emmanuel III, 
born in 1869, and married to Princess Elena, 
daughter of King Nicholas I of Montenegro. 
He has one boy the Crown Prince Humbert, and 
three daughters. He is the son of King Humbert 
I who was killed by an anarchist in 1900, and of 
Margaret, daughter of Ferdinand, Duke of Genoa 
and Elizabeth, Princess of Saxony, aunt of King 
Frederick August III of Sa.xony. His uncle on 
his mother's side is Thomas, the present Duke of 
Genoa. One of his father's sisters, ClotOde, was 
the mother of the present Prince Napoleon Bona- 
parte, and the other, Marie Pia, was the wife of 
King Louis I of Portugal, and therefore grand- 
mother of the present claimant, King Manuel. 
His uncle was Amadeus, Duke of Aosta, and from 
1870 to 1873 was King of Spain. The King's 
first cousins through his uncle Amadeus are 
Emmanuel, the present Duke of Aosta, who is 
married to Princess Helene of Orleans, sister of 
the present Duke of Orleans, to Victor Emmanuel, 
Count of Turin, Louis, Duke of the Abruzzi, and 
Humbert, Count of Salemi. 

The Royal Family of Sweden: The present 
Royal Family of Sweden are Bernadottes, a family 
transplanted from France in 1760. The founder 
of the family, John Baptist Jules Bernadotte, 
who was made Prince of Pontecorvo in 1806, was 
chosen as his adopted son by King Charles XIII 
of Sweden of the Holstein-Gottorp line, and 
in 1810 was made Prince Royal of Sweden. 
He succeeded to the throne as Charles XIV 
John. 

Guslav V, the present King, is the great-grand- 
son of the first Bernadotte ruler. He was bom in 
1858 and succeeded his father, King Oscar II in 
1905. His mother was Princess Sophia, daughter 
of William V, Duke of Nassau, and half sister of 
Adolph, Grand Duke of Oldenburg. His Queen 
is Princess Victoria of Baden, sister of the present 
Duke Frederick II. They have three sons, the 
second of whom, Prince William, Duke of Suder- 
mannia, was recently divorced from the Grand 
Duchess Marie of Russia. The eldest son, Crown 
Prince Gustav Adolph, is married to Princess 
Margaret of Connaught, daughter of the Duke of 
Connaught in Great Britain, and is therefore a 
first cousin by marriage of King George V of 
Great Britain, Ernst Louis, Grand Duke of Hesse, 
and William II, Emperor of Germany. 



PLACES IMPORTANT TO GER- 
MAN STRATEGY 

KIAO-CHAU: WHY JAPAN WENT TO WAR 
WITH GERMANY 

DR. BY T. lYENAGA 

FORMERLY PROFESSORIAL LECTURER OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO 



JAPAN'S ultimatum to Germany to withdraw 
her warships from the Far Eastern seas and 
evacuate Kiao-Chau, issued on August i6th, 
caused great surprise in America. Many of the 
comments upon Japan were severe, but the writer 
feels certain that they were so through lack of 
understanding of the Anglo- Japanese treaty and 
of the actual conditions which followed the de- 
claration of war by Germany upon her European 
neighbors. These conditions include the activi- 
ties of German cruisers, with Kiao-Chau as their 
base, in chasing their enemies' merchant vessels, 
the requisitioning of Japanese cargoes on board 
German merchantmen, the consequent insecurity 
of navigation on the Far Eastern seas to the great 
detriment of commerce, the feverish effort made 
to strengthen the German stronghold at Kiao- 
Chau. All these moves since the beginning of 
hostilities between Germany and England were, 
sooner or later, bound to bring the Anglo-Japanese 
Treaty of Alliance into play. These incidents, 
however, being overshadowed by the stirring news 
from Europe passed unnoticed by the American 
public. 

Moreover, to comprehend fully the real signi- 
ficance of Japan's course, a firm and comprehen- 
sive grasp of the Far Eastern situation is nec- 
essary. The writer will here endeavor to re- 
view with a brevity made necessary by space 
limitations, the history of the Far East so far as 
it directly concerns his subject, and will examine 
the spirit and working of the Anglo- Japanese Al- 
liance, with the hope of making clear the grounds 
upon which Japan's war with Germany rests. 
As the writer is a subject of one of the belligerents, 
it might not be amiss for him, in order to avoid 
misunderstanding, to state at the outset that he 
entertains the strongest admiration for the Ger- 
man people, for the contributions they have made 



in every domain of life to culture and cixilization. 
Especially in science, medicine, and military art, 
Japan is most gratefully indebted to German 
instruction and example. Whatever condemna- 
tion of German methods the author may see fit 
to pronounce later on refers solely to the German 
Far Eastern policy, engineered by German 
bureaucracy and militarism. 

The conflicting policies pursued by Japan and 
Germany in the Far East, which have at last 
resulted in the present war, had their inception 
at the time of China-Japan War of 1894-95. 
That war completely revolutionized the Far 
Eastern situation. From this point also dates the 
new alignment of the Powers most interested in 
the Far East, which has profoundly influenced all 
the subsequent developments. The exposure of 
China's weakness by Japan, inadvertent as it was, 
was the signal for European aggression in the 
Middle Elingdom. 

When Ito and Mutsu concluded at Shimonoseki 
the negotiations of the Peace Treaty with Li- 
Hung-Chang, they felt jubilant at the thought 
that Japan had scored a victory in diplomacy no 
less brilliant than those on land and sea. The wily 
Chinese diplomat, on the other hand, must have 
been laughing in his sleeve that he had outwitted 
his rivals. For, no sooner had peace terms been 
made known than Ito, Japan's Premier at that 
time, was confronted by a note addressed by Rus- 
sia, France, and Germany, to the Mikado, counsell- 
ing him to renounce his claim to the Liaotung Pen- 
insula. This was urged on the plea that the 
retention of the Peninsula by Japan would be a 
standing menace to the capital of China and the 
peace of the Orient. The note was couched in 
most polite terms, but its meaning was unmistaka- 
ble. The chagrin of Ito knew no bounds; he 
remained, it is said, mute for three long days. 



138 



K I A 0-C H A U 



139 



How Ito felt is well described by Sir Valentine 
Chirol: "I was in Japan then" he says" "and in 
the course of a conversation with Prince Ito, that 
great stateman, usually so reticent and reserved, 
brought his fist down on the table and exclaimed, 
'Germany we shall never forgive! Russia looks 
upon us as a future rival in the Far East ; France 
is, of course her ally, and has important possess- 
ions and ancient interests in Eastern Asia — we 
can understand their action. But for Germany, 
which always professed such genuine friendship 
and has no special interests in these regions, to 
join hands with them and stab us in the back — 
her intervention was odious and gratuitous.' " 

It took Japan, however, not many years to 
discover the real motive of Germany in joining 
the European coalition. On November i, 1897, 
two German missionaries were murdered by a 
Chinese mob in the province of Shantung. This 
was immediately seized as a pretext, and on the 
14th of the same month German warships entered 
the harbor of Kiao-Chau, landed their marines 
and hoisted the German flag on the fort of a 
friendly sovereign power. Then reparation was 
demanded from Peking. And remarkably drastic 
were its terms, namely, 200,000 taels of sUver on 
account of the dead men; rebuilding of a chapel 
destroyed in the riot; reimbursement of e.x- 
penses incurred by Germany in occupying Kiao- 
Chau; and severest penalties for the assassins 
and local officials. And on top of these demands, 
Germany required Kiao-Chau as a naval base; 
to be granted exclusive coal mining rights in 
Shantung; and also to receive railway concessions 
in that province. Most of these demands, ex- 
orbitant as they were, were soon acceded to by 
helpless China, which paid in this way the debt 
she owed to Germany for her service in saving the 
Liaotung Peninsula from Japan! 

In March, 1S98, the Kiao-Chau Convention was 
signed. By its terms Germany secured the lease 
of Kiao-Chau for 99 years, the right to build 
forts and dockyards, construct lighthouses and 
beacons and collect for their maintenance the dues 
from foreign vessels, and the complete control of 
administration and government in the leased 
district. It includes the bay and the land on both 
sides of the entrance, having an area of about 
117 square miles. Beside, there is a neutral zone 
of some 32 miles, measured from any point on the 
shore of the bay, over which the Chinese Govern- 



ment cannot issue any ordinances without the 
consent of Germany. The entrance to the bay is 
narrow, tortuous and treacherous, which, while 
a drawback in time of peace, wUl make it in time 
of war almost impossible for any hostile fleet to 
force it. Rocky, treeless hills that guard both 
sides of the entrance conceal many batteries. 
Within the harbor, therefore, the German war- 
ships are safe from attack by a hostfle fleet, how- 
ever formidable. Unlike Talien-Wan (Darien) 
whose water is deep, Kiao-Chau Bay is a wide 
expanse of sflt-laden water. To make it a splendid 
naval station, Germany, therefore, planned a vast 
scheme of harbor construction at great cost. It 
is divided into an outer and inner harbor. At 
the time the writer visited the port in 1910, the 
inner harbor, with its breakwaters and great 
granite piers, had already been completed, but the 
outer harbor was still in the process of construc- 
tion. Within the harbor is moored an immense 
floating dock, large enough to accommodate the 
biggest German battleship. 

On the land, which is sterUe and uninviting by 
nature, the wave of the Kaiser's magic wand has 
brought forth a beautiful city of Tsing-tao. It is 
a typical German town, built and run in the 
German fashion — "Pure West thrust upon pure 
East without compromise." Except for the 
presence of the large Chinese population, one 
would almost forget that he is in a corner of the 
globe so far away from the Fatherland. Its 
streets are lined by noble edifices; in the villa 
quarter a number of ornate residences attract 
the eye. The most conspicuous is the residence 
of the governor, a structure of huge dimensions. 
It is veritably a schloss. The city is, of course, 
provided with all modern appliances for heating, 
lighting, water supply and sanitation. The 
colony has its schools, hospitals, clubs, a race- 
course, and a summer resort in the vicinity of the 
city. In and around the city fruit culture has 
been encouraged, afforestation attempted on a 
large scale, and many industrial establishments 
built. 

The writer can speak with no authority on the 
Kiao-Chau forts, for he has not visited them, 
but it is said that "German engineering genius 
at its best is shown in the fortification of Tsing- 
tao." Two or more lines of fortification, con- 
sisting altogether of twelve forts, guard the 
leased district on the land side. The inner line 



140 



EUROPE AT WAR 



is said to be about three miles from Tsing-tao 
and formed by two mountain ridges, lca\ing a 
narrow gap between, through which, alone, the 
invading army can enter. Kiao-Chau may easily 
prove a second Port Arthur, if not more formid- 
able, and its storming would probably entail 
heavy losses. 

The harbor construction and the building of 
Tsing-tao were at first undertaken at an estimated 
cost of $40,000,000. In addition, the Reichstag 
has proved itself to be an exceedingly generous 
Godmother to the protege of the Fatherland, 
voting annually the sum of two and one half to 
three million dollars for the ujjbuilding of Tsing- 
tao. Most probably Germany has spent the sum 
of more than $100,000,000 for the execution of its 
Kiao-Chau programme. 

Beside the lease of Kiao-Chau, Germany ob- 
tained by an appendix to the Kiao-Chau Con- 
vention a most valuable railway, and mining con- 
cessions in the province of Shantung. The railway 
from Tsing-tao to Chinanfu, the capital of the 
province — a'distance'of about three hundred miles 
• — has been completed and running for manyyears. 
It has some branches to the adjacent mines. The 
railway has increased the business of the German 
]iort, and opened new markets for German goods. 
After its short life of a decade and a half, Tsing- 
tao now enjoys the trade of $45,000,000 in import 
and export. Coal and other valuable mines are 
also being worked at several places in Shantung. 

In short, Kiao-Chau is the centre and base of 
German activity in China,^politically and com- 
mercially. It is but the beginning of the vast 
imperial-colonial-commercial programme which 
Germany has doubtless formulated. The Kiao- 
Chau-Chinanfu Railway will make its junc- 
tion at Chinanfu with the trunk line which will 
in the future connect Tientsin with Pu-Kou on 
the Yangtze-Kiang. The^Tientsin-Chinanfu line is 
already completed thus joining Kiao-Chau with 
the capital of China. When the southern half of 
the trunk line is completed, Kiao-Chau will be in 
touch with the Yangtze regions and could e.xert a 
decided pressure upon North China and South 
China as well. 

The growth of German trade in China has been 
phenomenal. Within the last three decades Ger- 
many increased her Far Eastern trade from prac- 
tically nothing to one billion marks in value. 
Since 1905 Germany has increased her exports to 



China 50 per cent., with a total in iqi? of 
$15,750,000. "For the three years following 1873 
the annual average nimiber of German ships 
which entered into and cleared from the Oriental 
ports beyond India was only 48, aggregating about 
25,000 tons burden." In 1910, 5,496 German 
vessels of 6,585,671 tons entered and cleared 
Chinese ports. In parentheses it may be noted 
here that Japan, envious as she is of the remark- 
able expansion of German trade in China, does 
not seize this opportunity to crush her commercial 
rival, in order to steal her trade. That would be 
piratical, entirely unjustifiable conduct. So far as 
commerce is carried on upon a legitimate basis 
without undue political influence, it should enjoy 
a free hand. For that is the "open door." 

Turning now to the relations between England 
and Japan, and the spirit and terms of their 
Treaty of Alliance, we find that when Japan was 
confronted in 1895 by the strong combination 
of three European Powers, she found herself 
powerless to resist, and withdrew from the 
Asiatic mainland with whatever grace her self- 
restraint could command. She discovered, how- 
ever, that she was not friendless. Great Britain 
had steadfastly refused to join the European 
coalition, and had expressed the strongest dis- 
approval of its action. But England was not yet 
prepared to actively support the affronted nation. 
She was still satisfied with her attitude of "splen- 
did isolation." There were not lacking prophets 
who urged the wisdom of joining hands with the 
nation which had just demonstrated its military 
prowess. But theirs was as the voice of one 
crying in the wilderness. 

Meanwhile momentous developments were tak- 
ing place in China. The seizure of Kiao-Chau 
by Germany had inaugurated an era of European 
aggression in the Manchu Empire. Soon the 
Russian eagle was flying over the fortress of Port 
Arthur; France had lodged herself in Kwang- 
Cho-Wan; England in Wei-hei-Wei. In addi- 
tion, the scramble for railway, mining, and other 
concessions from China, with the Kiao-Chau 
Convention as a model, became the order of the 
day. Far more ominous than these seizures of 
small spots of land and the extortion of economic 
concessions, was the phrase "spheres of influence," 
which came into vogue. In the north, Mongolia, 
Manchuria, and the upper basin of the Hoang-Ho 
were said to belong to the Russian "sphere of in- 



K I A O - C II A U 



141 



fluence"; in the centre, the vast and fertile re- 
gions of the \'angtze-Kiang were earmarl^ed as 
tlie British "sphere of influence"; in the south, 
the province of Kwang-si, a part of Yunnan and 
of Kvvangtung with the island of Hainan, were 
claimed by the French as their "sphere of in- 
lluence"; the province of Shantung had the first 
honor of initiation in the nomenclature of " spheres 
of influence " as the German " sphere " ; even Japan 
condescended to mark her "sphere of influence" 
in the province of Fu-Kien opposite Formosa. 
In short, the dismemberment of China among the 
great Powers seemed to be fairly under way. 

These developments were watched by England 
and Japan with extreme an.xiety. They had 
common grounds for fear. The maintenance of 
the status quo in China and equal opportunities 
for trade to all nations was of supreme importance 
to England, in order to preserve the predomina- 
ing political and commercial influence she had 
hitherto enjoyed. The independence of China 
was vital to Japan, for its loss would mean the 
setting up of European kingdoms at the very door 
of Japan, to the constant menace of her national 
welfare, even her existence. For these reasons, 
England and Japan seemed for a time to have 
determined to support even smgle-handed China's 
integrity and the "open door." 

It was officially declared "that it is of vital 
importance for the commerce and influence of 
Great Britian that the independence of China 
should be respected." It was announced through 
the mouth of Sir Michael Hicks-Beach, a member 
of the Cabinet of that time, that "the British 
Government is absolutely determined, at any cost, 
even at the risk of war, that 'the open door' 
in China shall not be closed." But when Eng- 
land saw the audacious proceedings of her rivals 
in despoiling China, she became a little suspicious 
of the wisdom of her stand, and seemed to have 
concluded that the position of Count von Biilow 
might after all be wiser. The German Chan- 
ceUor had declared before the Reichstag: "Men- 
tion has been made of the partition of China. 
Such a partition will not be brought about by us 
at any rate. AH we have done is to provide that, 
come what may, we ourselves shall not go empty- 
handed." 

The demarkation of the British "sphere of in- 
fluence" in the Yangtze regions, and the ac- 

*Map reprinted by permission, from the 



quisition of Kowloon opposite Hong Kong, are 
the proceedings that reflect the doubting mood of 
Great Britain. It was the same story with Japan, 
for, while she was constantly proclaiming her 
determination to maintain China's integrity, she 
took a hand in the marking of a "sphere of in- 
fluence." The whole story shows the wavering 
attitude of England and Japan during the years 
prior to the Boxer outbreak. On the minds of 
the English and Japanese statesmen was slowly 
but steadily dawning the conviction that, unless 




Copyright. 1914, by the New York Evening Post Co. 
*KIAO-CHAU, THE SCENE OF JAPAN'S INTERFERENCE 

some effective means could be devised, it would 
become almost impossible to stem the tide of 
European aggression in China. England and Japan 
separately each experienced the difficulty of hold- 
ing even its own position, still more of resisting 
the European combination. England had tried 
the experiment in the Anglo-Russian Agreement 
of 1899 and the Anglo-German Agreement of 
1900. But England had already been dethroned 
in the council-board of nations at Peking and 
relegated to an inferior place. Whatever England 
proposed to the Chinese Court was almost sure 
to be frustrated by the counter schemes of Russia, 
France, and Germany. And England's loss of 
prestige extended from Peking to Teheran. 
New Yorii Evening Post War Gazetteer 



142 



EUROPE AT WAR 



As to Japan her whole diplomatic history from 
the signing of the Treaty of Shimonoseki to that 
of the Anglo- Japanese Treaty, is the history of 
humiliation and the acceptance of condescension. 
Through diplomacy she was shorn of the best 
fruits of her victory over China; from Port Ar- 
thur, Wei-hei-Wei, and the Liao-tung Peninsula 
on which she had shed so ungrudgingly the blood 
of her sons, she was elbowed out; in Korea, for 
whose independence and regeneration Japan 
fought, she found her influence soon waning, and 
only "saved her face" by the compromise with 
Russia in concluding the Russo-Japanese Conven- 
tion of 1896. Not only was she compelled to 
acquiesce in these humiliations and injustices, 
but she was not able to raise one protest against 
those transactions that snatched from China 
Port Arthur, Kiao-Chau, and other territories, 
before her very solicitous eyes that had scarcely 
\%'inked since the battles of Kinchow and the 
Yalu. 

It was in such a situation that John Haj^ came 
out with his famous circular. Its first marked 
effect was to stiffen the backbones of England and 
Japan. Credit is due the great American states- 
man, therefore, not for the origination of the 
doctrine of the "open door," but for giving a 
strong impetus toward its preservation. 

The diplomatic e.xperiences of England and 
Japan above outlined were sufficient to convince 
the respective governments that only a strong 
combination could uphold their policy, and safe- 
guard their interests, in China. Herein are the 
reasons and genesis of the Anglo- Japanese Al- 
liance concluded in 1902. The cardmal points 
of the treaty were the maintenance of China's 
integrity and the "open door" and the indepen- 
dence of Korea, and the safeguarding of the 
special interests in Eastern Asia of the contracting 
parties. The Alliance was intended to preserve 
peace in the Far East, or, if peace was broken, 
to restrict the area of possible hostihties. It 
failed to achieve the first object, but it em- 
phatically fulfilled the second. The treaty was 
renewed in 1905. The principal changes in the 
terms of the treaty from those of 1902 were the 
inclusion of India among the specified regions, 
and the vital decision that hostilities with only 
one Power involved both allies. The Alliance 
was again renewed in 1911, when a provision was 
inserted that neither of the contracting parties 



was obliged to go to war with a Power with whom 
a treaty of arbitration was in force. 

There was some opposition to the renewal of 
the Alliance among certain sections of the British 
community. It was based on these grounds: 

1. The Alliance has already served its pur- 
pose. The Russians' defeat on the Manchurian 
fields has completely dissipated the fear of their 
encroachment on China. The Anglo-Russian 
Agreement of 1907 which settled the disputes 
on the Anglo-Russian border, extending from the 
Pamir to Teheran, minimizes the Russian menace 
to British rule in India. The Anglo-Japanese 
Alliance has, therefore, lost its raison d'etre. 

2. The Japanese AUiance is decidedly un- 
popular among the British colonies on the Pacific, 
— Australia, New Zealand, Canada. Their at- 
titude toward Japanese laborers is similar to that 
of the Americans on the Pacific Coast. Con- 
sequently, the antagonism of the Colonies to 
Japanese laborers, on the one hand, and the re- 
sentment felt by the Japanese people for the 
humiliation of their compatriots on the other, 
might place the British Government in an ex- 
tremely awkward position, if the Japanese 
Alliance is continued. 

3. If we remain allies of Japan, there is a possi- 
bility of England finding herself in the most 
embarrassing situation, in case the American- 
Japanese relation reaches a breaking point. This 
fear was, however, set at rest by the new arbitra- 
tion treaty provision in the treaty of 191 1 al- 
ready referred to. 

The opposition failed to shake the profound 
faith of the responsible statesmen of Great Britain 
and Japan in the wsdom of renewing the Al- 
liance, and they put their seals to the instrument. 
Their motives and reasons in doing so must, there- 
fore, be elucidated in order to make plain the aim 
and spirit of the treaty now in force, which, in 
turn, wiU explain more than anything else the 
present Far Eastern situation. Such an attempt 
is herein made as briefly as possible. 

I. The imperial policy of Great Britain and 
Japan demanded the renewal of the Alliance. 
The late Marquis Komura, who, on Japan's side, 
was chiefl}' responsible in giving birth to the 
Alliance, presented the authoritative Japanese 
view of it. He said before the Imperial Diet, "the 
Anglo- Japanese Alliance is the life of Japanese 
diplomacy and, therefore, everything must be 



KIAO-CHAU 



143 



done to avoid any step likely to impair it." The 
same was recently afBrmed most forcibly in 
word and deed by the present Foreign Min- 
ister, Baron Kato. It was the Anglo-Japanese 
Alliance that gave Japan a free hand to fight 
Russia. It was the Alliance that prevented 
the intervention of European Powers after the 
war, and saved Japan from repeating the bit- 
ter experience of 1895. It was the Alliance that 
added prestige to Japan in the councO of nations. 
No less great have been the benefits Great 
Britain has secured from the Alliance. On this 
point, however, let Englishmen, themselves, 
speak for their own country. The following 
quotation is selected out of many as its forecast 
is very enlightening on the present European 
situation. A brilliant English journalist, after 
reviewing the reign of King Edward, and com- 
menting on the significance of the Anglo- Japanese 
Alliance says: "In foreign affairs proper, there 
was not a sensitive spot on the map of which it 
could be truly said that British policy was pros- 
perous or our outlook encouraging. Our relations 
with Russia involved increasing friction upon an 
extending line. ... To this was now 
added the definite change, by itself epoch-making, 
in the traditional relations with Germany. To 
that state of things, if we persisted in the splendid 
isolation, there could be only one end — a Euro- 
pean coalition under German leadership, and to 
that might have been added a Russo-Japanese 
arrangement at our e.xpense in Asia. These were 
contingencies so real, dangers so definite and 
urgent, as to bring about what was nothing less 
than a revolution in our foreign policy. It had 
to be made and it was made Splen- 
did isolation was ended by a compact. The 
Japanese alliance was the most remarkable and 
dramatic engagement into which our pohcy had 
ever entered. The compact was the solid founda- 
tion stone for the new structure of diplomacy 
subsequently raised. Having made one treaty of 
aUiance we were necessarily open to other negotia- 
tions. In face of Germany our sole desire was and 
is to keep what we had held, but the former co- 
operation of this Power could no longer be relied 
upon. That fact, once evident, was bound to 
become and remain the most important con- 
sideration of our policy ; the whole perspective in 
which other questions had been viewed, was 
changed. . . . The evident disappear- 



ance of hostility to France, the new open minded- 
ness with regard to Russia, gradually brought 
about a corresponding change of thought and 
feeUng in each of these countries. Under Eling 
Edward's auspices the entente cordiale (with 
France) was effected; the Anglo-Russian rap- 
prodiement followed; and . . . this country 
had eluded greater perils than had threatened her 
for many a day, and had again secured a firmer 
diplomatic position than we had held for a 
century." 

The Anglo- Japanese Alliance has thus served as 
the first link in the chain of subsequent under- 
standings among the European allies now en- 
gaged in the tremendous struggle against Ger- 
many and Austro-Hungary. England's far- 
sighted and far-reaching imperial policy has 
thus induced her statesmen to conclude the third 
Anglo- Japanese Treaty. The interests England 
has to safeguard, it needs no emphasis, are multi- 
fold; these impose upon her the shaping of her 
imperial policy, not by specific interests in cer- 
tain spots, but in terms of continents and oceans. 
And back of all lies the supreme importance of 
the command of the sea. 

2. Here we come to the second factor that has 
influenced the continuance of the Japanese Al- 
Uance. It has enabled England to withdraw her 
large Asiatic fleet to the home waters, liberating 
thus a strong naval force for use in maintaining 
against the pretension of Germany the supremacy 
of the sea. England has in a sense confided to her 
aUy the policing of the Far Eastern waters — a 
fact not to be overlooked in considering Japan's 
quick decision to mobilize her fleet against the 
activities of German waships in Eastern seas. 

To the above considerations we should, of 
course, add all the factors that have contributed 
to the conclusion of the first and second Anglo- 
Japanese Treaty. 

The foregoing survey of Far Eastern history 
and the analysis of the aim and scope of the 
Anglo-Japanese Treaty, will, the writer hopes, 
make Japan's present action perfectly clear. 
To summarize, then, the grounds of Japan's war 
with Germany are: 

I. To fulfill her treaty obligations to her ally. 

Count Okuma, Japan's premier, declares that 
"every sense of loyalty and honor obliges Japan 
to cooperate with Great Britian to clear from these 
waters the enemies, who, in the past, the present, 



144 



EUROPE AT WAR 



and the future, menace her interest, her trade, her 
shipping, and her people's lives." Japan's part 
in the cooperative measures with her ally is, then, 
to capture or destroy German warships and to 
reduce Kiao-Chau. That its reduction is no 
child's play will sooner or later be fully demon- 
strated to the world. Great Britain at the present 
moment can hardly dispense with a large fleet 
or expeditionary force sulBcient to reduce Kiao- 
Chau; and she sees fit to rely upon her ally's 
arms for the undertaking of the difficult task, 
while Japan whole-heartedly comes to her ally's 
aid in fulfilment of the obligations imposed upon 
her by the Anglo- Japanese Treaty. Had Japan 
desisted from taking such an action she would 
have been forever branded as a cowardly, selfish 
nation, and none would in future have trusted or 
befriended her. 

2. Toestablish firmly China's integrity and the 
principle of the " open door " and to ensure Japan's 
own safety and a lasting peace in the Orient. 

Kiao-Chau is the child conceived, begotten, 
and bred by the Kaiser's policy of the "mailed 
fist." In Tsingtao there is a rock-hewn tablet on 
which is inscribed in German and Chinese the 
story of the birth of the colony. Those who 
know either tongue can readily tell that the 
murder of two holy apostles of the gospel by a 
Shantung mob has led to the founding of this 
fortified colony, which two divisions of the 
Japanese army might find it hard to dislodge. 
In Peking, facing the Hata Mon (gate) that 
pierces the Tartar Wall, there stands the Kettler 
Arch, erected by the Chinese Government as an 
apology for the murder by the Boxers of the Ger- 
man Minister Von Kettler. In Tientsin a monu- 
ment that personifies the German militarism, 



erected, it is said, in honor of those who fought 
and died during the Boxer outbreak, guards the 
entrance to the German settlement, giving notice 
to China of the might of the Fatherland. Such 
a brandishing of the "mailed fist" is consoling 
neither to China nor to the outside world. 

Kiao-Chau is the last vestige of European 
aggression on China begun in 1895. As long as 
the German stronghold remains standing to serve 
the purpose of German imperialism and mili- 
tarism, so long the policy, which John Hay so 
lucidly emmciated, is in danger of subversion. 
For, who knows whether, when Germany is fully 
prepared, the present nucleus of German im- 
perialism at Kiao-Chau might not develop into a 
factorwhosepower the world has not yet measured! 

Japan has, therefore, resolved in cooperation 
with her ally to root out German imperialism in 
the Far East, in order to place on a safer and more 
solid foundation the principle for which England, 
America, and Japan have so long contended, and 
thus to secure lasting peace in the Orient. The 
pledge Japan has given to restore Kiao-Chau 
eventually to China is an evidence of her sincerity 
to stand for the maintenance of China's integrity 
and the "open door." If there is any danger at 
all, that danger, extremely remote though it be, 
lies with China herself, who might by some mis- 
guided act bring down upon herself her own ruin. 
Japan's premier has most emphatically stated that 
"Japan has no ulterior motive, no desire to secure 
more territory, no thought of depriving China or 
any other peoples of anything which they now 
possess." It goes without saying that Japan will 
never take any measure that might be construed 
as prejudicial to the interests of the United States. 
For America is Japan's best friend. 



THE STORY OF ALSACE-LORRAINE 



ALSACE-LORRAINE, the sign of France's 
humiliation at the hands of Germany in 
1870, and but for which there might not, 
perhaps, have been any war in 1914, has been for 
nearly half a century a German imperial territory 
— a " Reichsland." Originally it was not French. 
From the time of the great Charlemagne until the 
peace of Westphalia, in 1648, it was one of the 
countships of the empire. Half a century of war 
followed and Strassburg became a part of France. 
Gradually more territory was acquired, until, by 



the end of the French revolution, Miilhausen also 
had become French. Both Alsace and Lorraine, 
particularly Alsace, suffered a great deal during 
the war of 1870. The earlier battles of the cam- 
paign were fought there. Strassburg was besieged 
and taken. The surrender of Alsace and part of 
Lorraine was made the principal condition of 
peace by Bismarck. The Iron Chancellor himself 
would have been content with a language bound- 
ar\-, that is, with taking the German-speaking 
part and letting France keep the part where 



THE KIEL CANAL 



145 



French was the mother tongue. His generals, 
however, insisted that they must have Metz and 
its environs for strategic purposes. Therefore 
Alsace and Lorraine, with the exception of the 
districts of Belfort were taken. 

The Berlin Government introduced the German 
parliamentary system in May 187 1. Alsace and 
Lorraine (Elsass-Lothringen) were to be governed 
by the power of the German Emperor himself and 
the Federal Council of the Bundesrat until 
January i, 1874, when the constitution of the 
German Empire was to be established. The 
campaign of Prussification was begun at once, 
although with indifferent success from the first. 
In September 1872, a vote was taken on the 
question as to who would consider themselves 
Germans and remain, or French subjects, and 
transfer their domicile to France. About 45,000 
persons chose to leave their homes and cross the 
border into France. Portions of both Alsace and 
Lorraine continued irreconcilable, although the 
Germanization process was applied steadily. The 
German language was made compulsory in the 
public schools and in the courts and legislative 
bodies ; French radical newspapers were suppressed 
and all the schools of learning put under German 
control. 

The French never forgot their loss of the two 
provinces. Revenge for the taking of Alsace- 
Lorraine has been part of France's foreign policy 
since her defeat in 187 1. It was chiefly with the 



aim of some day getting these lost provinces 
back that the republic made her alliance with 
Russia. 

Various changes have taken place during recent 
years in the political status of the Reichsland, as 
Alsace-Lorraine is known officially by the Ger- 
mans, in the direction of greater autonomy. A 
new constitution for the two provinces was enacted 
in 191 1. Representatives were provided for, but 
with no voting power. According to this con- 
stitution, which made the two provinces a state 
of the German federation, the German Emperor 
exercises sovereign power, and is represented at 
Strassburg by a governor (Statthalter), who is at 
the head of the government. There are two 
chambers elected by universal suffrage. 

A great deal of bitterness was occasioned in a 
small Alsatian town called Zabern, in 1913, by the 
ruthless repressive action of a Prussian regiment 
quartered there. Military outrages upon civilians 
were reported, and finally the Prussian regiment 
was withdrawn. 

Alsace and Lorraine together contain 5,600 
square miles and make up an area somewhat 
larger than the State of Connecticut, with a 
population of about 2,000,000. About 85 per 
cent, of the people speak German as their mother 
tongue; the remaining 15 per cent, use French or a 
patois. There are some large and important 
towTis in the provinces, including Strassburg, 
Miilhausen and Kolmar. 



THE KIEL CANAL AND ITS SIGNIFICANCE 



A GLANCE at the map of northern Europe 
cannot fail to impress the reader with the 
vital importance to Germany of the Kai- 
ser Wilhelm, or Kiel, Canal, which connects the 
North Sea with the Baltic. This waterway has 
been of prime importance to German naval 
strategy ever since its construction. The na\'al 
base at Kiel on the Baltic Sea entrance, with a 
population of 200,000, is one of the main foci 
of German strategy. By means of the canal, the 
Kaiser's Baltic Fleet, can go to the assistance of 
the German High Sea Fleet in the North Sea, 
making the passage in less than sixteen hours. 
If, on the other hand, it should be necessary, all 
the Kaiser's ships of war in every waterwaj" of 
the globe can pass through the canal two abreast 
into the Baltic; where with the North Sea en- 



trance closed, the enemy is powerless to reach 
them. 

While the oflScial name of the waterway is the 
Kaiser Wilhelm Canal the world knows it by the 
shorter, more familiar name of Kiel Canal. It is 
in the Prussian province of Schleswig-Holsteiu, 
almost at the foot of what is known as the Jut- 
land Peninsula. Starting near the mouth of the 
Elbe River across from Cuxhaven, the real port 
of Hamburg, the canal takes a generally north- 
east course about a third of the way, then it 
turns east, and then southeast, following most 
of the way the route of an older canal built in 
1784, by King Christian VII of Denmark. The 
length of the waterway from the western end, 
near Brunsbiittel, to the eastern end at Wik, near 
the harbor of Kiel, is a little more than sixty miles. 



146 



EUROPE AT WAR 



By the summer of 1914 the work of broadening 
and deepening the canal was complete, and its 
dimensions had become approximately, depth, 
30 feet, width at bottom, 70 feet, width at top, 
220 feet. All modem appliances, including 



the chief dock yards and naval bases of the 
German coast. It connects Wilhelmshafen, the 
base of the North Sea Fleet, with Kiel, the 
Baltic base, and Danzig, another base and 
seaport. 




A ^ "^ ^-' 



A .VILNA 
Iyotkuhnem 






WARSAMT 



THE NORTH SEA, THE KIEL CANAI, AND THE BALTIC 



lighting by electricity, will make the nine hours' 
passage of an ordinary steamer comfortable and 
expeditious. The canal crosses the peninsula 
at sea level although there are locks to neutra- 
lize the tide changes. It flows almost between 



At the harbor of Kiel, which is one of the finest 
on the German coast, are the imperial docks and 
ship building yards. There are also the private 
yards of the Krupps and Howalds, the great 
German ship builders. 



THE GERMAN COLONIES 



WHEN the smoke of battle has cleared, 
whatever the outcome, there will be a 
new map of the world for future genera- 
tions to study. The most significant changes are 
bound to take place, not in the map of Europe, 
but in the colonial possessions of the warring 
powers. Not the least impressive, though per- 
haps the least known colonial empire, belongs to 
Germany. England, France, even little Holland 
— these have great colonial possessions. But few 
people to-day realize that Germany by her 
"mailed fist" policy, combined with watchful 
waiting, and qmckness to seize opportunities, has 
now built up an empire outside of Europe in ex- 
tent five times as large as the whole Fatherland. 

German possessions fall into three main divi- 
sions — her African colonies, her sole Asian strong- 
hold of Kiao-Chau, and her islands in the Pacific. 

Four fifths of her colonial territory lies in Africa. 



On the East Coast, just south of the British terri- 
tory of big game renown, is German East Africa, 
almost the exact size of all our Atlantic Coast 
States from Maine to Florida. This coastal strip 
Germany acquired in 1890 from the Sultan of 
Zanzibar by payment of a million dollars. On 
the west coast corresponding in area to our three 
Pacific coast states, lies German Southwest Africa, 
the only German dependency in Africa adapted to 
white colonization. Instead of the luxuriant 
tropical vegetation of the east coast, we find here 
conditions suited to the raising of large herds of 
livestock. Farther north on the west coast 
Germany has established herself in the Kamerun 
and Togoland, an area greater in extent than all 
of France and the British Isles. But the fact 
which makes this question of German colonies in 
Africa of extreme interest at the present time, is 
that in every single instance her possessions border 



THE KAISER 




A PORTRAIT OF THE KAISER IN THE GERMAN EMBASSY AT ST. PETERSBURG 



148 



EUROPE AT WAR 




FOURTEEN YEARS OLD TEN YEARS OLD 

THE KAISER'S BOYHOOD 



THE KAISER 



149 




TWENTY 



TWENTY TWO 



m HIS CORONATION YEAR (l8 




AFTER FOUR YEARS OF RULE 



FOR TEN YEARS THE KAISER 



15° 



EUROPE AT WAR 




rX SUMMER GARB AT CORFU 



WITH THE DUKE OF riiXXAUGnT 



^^^^^^^^^^^Ev^^H^^^H 


■^H 


^^^^BB^^^I 


^H^^^H 


^^B>^*^1 


^^^^^BP 




5 '^•^''^ 




HH ^^''^'i^^"'-^ 












^^^* ^ 




WITH THE KAISERIN THE SEA LORD 

WILHELM 11 THE VERSATILE 



THE KAISER 



151 





Lt^^*:#) '^ i^'. 




T'"*-' 
', >• ^ 








:0^^^r4'mti 


'« : ■-■ mm^ 



WITH KINT, GEORGE OF ENGLAND 




WITH KING ALBERT OF BELGIUM 



CopyrisHit by Brown Bros., N- Y. 




WITH THE CZAR 

THE KAISER WITH HIS FRIENDS THE ENEMY 



1.5^ 



EUROPE AT WAR 




THE KAISER AND HIS SIX SONS 



THE KAISER 



153 




^^^^^^^^^P' 


^H 




^H 




fl 


i>^ 


il 


kF'Jm 


Hj 




1 



THE CROWN PRINCE 



THE KAISER S DAUGHTER 




THE KAISER AND THE KAISERIN 



154 



EUROPE AT WAR 




AS A mL.IlLAMjLK 



^TTT, T, . ^^ '^^ ™^ ANCESTOR, PREDERICK THE GREAT 

THE KAISER IN COSTUME 



THE KAISER 



155 




I'lii; i;a(; 




THE WITHERED ARM 

DESPITE WHICH THE KAISER SHOOTS, RIDES, SWIMS AND ROWS 



iS6 



EUROPE AT WAR 




SIOLZENFELS ON THE RHINE 




ITALIAN PALACE IN CORFU 

THE KAISER'S PALACES 



THE KAISER 



157 




THE K.\ISER WITH HIS GENERALS AT DINNER 



158 



EUROPE AT WAR 



I 




THE KAISER AND COLONEL ROOSEVELT AT A MILITARY REVIEW 




I 



THE KAISER, HIS UNCLE, KING EDWARD VII AND KING ALPHONSO 



THE KAISER 



ISO 




Copyright by Underw<x)d & UndenvLiud 

THE lilPERIAL GUARD PASSING IN REVIEW BEFORE EMPEROR WILLIAM 

AT THE LEFT OF THE KAISER IS GENERAL LOWENFELDT, AND AT THE EXTREME RIGHT GENERAL VON BUELOW. THE 

LATTER WAS THE FIRST GERMAN GENERAL TO FALL 




THE KAISER GREETING HIS ALLY EMPEROR FRANZ JOSEPH 



i6o 



EUROPE AT WAR 




A SERMON ON THE HOHENZOLLERN 



OUR FUTURE IS ON THE SEA 



THE KAISER 



i6i 




THE K.\ISER WITH HIS CHIEF OF STAFF GENERAL VON MOLTKE 



l62 



EUROPE AT WAR 







d 


THE K.\ISER IN UHXAN UNIFORM 

1 ft^y3AiS«.^L. i^^ 




y 




• 
• 

/• 
1 






w^^ X iy.^^. 


.' 


SHKnKI 



THE KAISER IN HUNTING COSTUxME 



THE GERMAN COLONIES 



163 



on some British territory. The whole political 
complexion of Africa, therefore, is certain to be 
profoundly changed by the war. 

In the Far East, German territory is confined 
to a strip of land in China hardly 200 square miles 
in area — the Protectorate of Kiao-Chau. Here 
across the way from Korea on the Yellow Sea, 
Germany has built for herself with her coal sup- 
plies, dry-docks and forts, a formidable centre of 
influence in the East. 

The third part of Colonial Germany consists of 
her possessions in the southern Pacific. Strewn 
along from the Indian Ocean, out across the 
Pacific for 8,000 miles they stretch, an area of 
96,000 square miles in all, yet defended by a 
white population of less than 2 ,oco. They include 
the hundreds of settlements known collectively 
as the German New Guinea Protectorate: the 



Marshall and Solomon islands, the Pelan and 
the Marianne groups, the widely scattered Caro- 
linas and the Bismarck Archipelago. Almost all 
of these island-groups, were bought from Spain 
in 1899. On the island of New Guinea itself, 
Germany holds in Kaiser Wilhelm's land, a large 
slice right next to that of England. Far out in mid- 
Pacific lie Germany's Samoan possessions: Savaii 
and Upolu together with several smaller islets. 
The rest of the group belongs to the United States, 
and this is the only instance where America is 
Germany's next door neighbor. The Samoan 
Islands were ceded to Germany and the United 
States in 1899 by treaty with Great Britain. 

Such then, is Germany's colonial empire, widely 
scattered, embracing a total of 1,134,239 square 
miles of territory, with a population of 14,883,950 
subjects. 



THE UNITED STATES 
AS AFFECTED BY THE WAR 

THE EFFECT ON THE UNITED STATES 

BY CHARLES FREDERICK CARTER 



LIKE the rain, the penalties of a great war 
fall alike on the just and on the unjust. 
Although the United States is innocent of 
blame for the present conflict (with all the parties 
to which we were, and still continue to be, on 
terms of impartial friendship) the Nation has 
already paid a heavy toll because of the war, and 
it will be obhged to pay an increasingly heavy 
one as time goes on. 

First came the great demand for gold for ex- 
port and an endeavor by European investors 
to realize on American securities at any price, 
that compelled the shutting down of the stock 
exchanges. Financial and commercial operations 
on a large scale were reduced to the lowest limits 
pending the taking of necessary precautions 
against total demoralization. Business every- 
where felt the shock keenly. 

Foreign trade was practically brought to a 
standstill. The sea-borne traffic of the world is 
carried in a fleet of approximately 31,000 vessels 
having an aggregate capacity of 47,000,000 gross 
tons, in round numbers, of which Great Britain 
owns 40 per cent., Germany 11 per cent., France 
5 per cent., and the rest of the nations at war 
enough to bring the aggregate to nearly two thirds 
of the grand total. Barely 10 per cent, of our 
foreign commerce is carried in American ships, 
and on the north Atlantic we have but a single 
line of four venerable vessels. With hostile war- 
ships scouring the seas, the owners of commercial 
craft naturally prefer to keep their ships in some 
safe port. This applies not merely to the North 
Atlantic trade, but to the traffic with the 
West Indies, South America, Africa, the Far East, 
and Australasia. Until one side or the other 
gains the mastery of the sea, or imtil we can pro- 
vide ourselves, by purchase, with a merchant 
marine, under the new law, the embargo on com- 
merce must continue. Some of the finest vessels 
in the trans-Atlantic trade were built with the 



aid of governmental subsidies on condition 
that they should be converted to military use in 
case of war. These will not be available for com- 
merce in any case imtil the war is ended. The 
situation may at any time be further complicated 
by blockades, so that the acquisition of vessels 
of our own would not help us out altogether. The 
concern of the Washington Administration over 
this situation is evidenced by the radical relief 
measures which are under discussion. 

The embargo on shipping and the dislocation 
of the exchange market caused congestion of 
wheat at the ports, which reacted upon the rail- 
roads and thence on the farmers in the West. 
The stevedores and longshoremen were the first 
Americans to sufier from the consequences of the 
war, but in a very few days the effects had spread 
over all the country. 

A stUl more serious aspect of the situation is 
that the nations at war are our best customers. 
Of our total exports, amounting in 1913 to 
$2,465,884,149, these warring nations took 
$1,190,463,425, sending us in return goods val- 
ued at $709,498,119. In other words, 44 per 
cent, of all our foreign trade is with those nations 
which are now at war. Practically the entire 
able-bodied male population in all these countries 
has been withdrawn from industrial pursuits, 
leaving only women, children, and old men to do 
whatever useful work is done. The women of 
Europe are accustomed to doing much of the 
drudgery, because even in time of peace all able- 
bodied young men are compelled to give at least 
three of the best years of their life to the army; 
but there is a limit to what the women can do. 
The purchasing power of these nations has al- 
ready been reduced to the lowest possible figure, 
and it will continue at the minimum for a long 
period after peace has been declared. Our trade 
must decline because there will be fewer people 
with whom to trade. Some industries will doubt- 



164 



THE WAR AND THE UNITED STATES 



i6s 



less be seriously affected, others to a lesser degree, 
but thousands will be thrown out of work, while 
the cost of living increases, and the Government, 
deprived of customs duties may be obliged to 
levy a war tax, which will make things still more 
uncomfortable for the American citizen who has 
no part in the quarrel. 

Whatever the seventeen million men, who 
are trying to kill each other, and their families 
may do without, at least they must have food. 
It happens that although the wheat crop of the 
rest of the world is short about 438,000,000 bush- 
els, or 14 per cent., that of the United States 
shows an increase of 148,000,000 bushels. The 
com crop is 187,000,000 bushels larger than a 
year ago, and the oat crop is 31,000,000 bushels 
larger. The total increase in the three great 
cereals over last year is 366,000,000 bushels. 
This surplus we shall be able to dispose of at 
prices that have already advanced materially 
and tliat are pretty certain to go still higher. 
This is all ver>' well for those who have grain to 
sell; but, unfortunately, we cannot have one price 
for foreign customers and another for the home 
market. There are more consumers than pro- 
ducers of cereals, so the great majority will find 
nothing agreeable in the increased cost of grain 
and flour. 

There is another consideration. Though our 
exports of foodstuffs for the year ending June 
30, 1914, totalled $430,296,666, we imported 
$475,070,689 worth. In other words, we are 
unable to feed ourselves, but must go out into 
the world's markets and make up the shortage 
in provisions at the same increased prices that 
others pay. 

The tariff was taken off sugar for the benefit 
of the consumer. But an important part of the 
world's supply of sugar comes from beets grown in 
the countries now at war. It is uncertain whether 
the present crop can be harvested or not. On 
the prospect of a shortage sugar advanced a cent 
a pound to the consumer before the war was a 
week old. Meat, butter, eggs, cheese, and other 
articles of food also promptly started to climb. 
Steel advanced a dollar a ton. Many chemicals, 
drugs, and iimumerable other manufactured 
articles come almost wholly from the war zone. 
The opening of hostilities promptly cut off the 
supply. As it is extremely imcertain when this 
source of supph* will again be available, or when, 



or to what extent, American manufacturers will 
be in a position to supply the demand, the con- 
sumer may confidently count on paying fancy 
prices for all these articles or going without them. 

Germany supplied an important part of the 
fertilizers used on American farms. If this 
supply, now entirely cut off, is not forthcoming 
when needed, the result may be a decreased 
production next year which will offset any bene- 
fit the farmers affected may gam through in- 
creased prices for their crops. 

In short, there is no lack of ways in which to 
collect from America the penalty for Europe's 
crime. The penalty has been passed along to 
the average man everj-where in the form of a 
prompt increase in the cost of Uving, with the 
comforting assurance that the increase is likely 
to go on indefinitely. In all probabiUty there will 
be a temporary slowing up in all lines, which 
will make dollars scarcer for the average man at 
the same time that the purchasing power of the 
dollar is shrinldng. 

Another very serious result of the war will be 
to shut off the supply of foreign capital. Amer- 
ica has always been a heavy borrower, and could 
continue to borrow with profit to herself. The 
railroads alone need billions in the next few years 
if they are to be developed on a scale that will 
allow the country to grow. But after such a 
titanic struggle as is now going on Europe will 
be hopelessly bankrupt. No matter who wins 
the nominal victory all the nations involved will 
be the real losers, and their neighbors will suffer 
to a lesser degree. Countless billions in capital 
and property will be destroyed utterly, and the 
best lives of the countries will be wiped out by 
scores of thousands. It is, obviously, impossible 
to make any sort of guess at the number of lives 
to be lost, but perhaps past experience may serve 
as a guide in appreciating the awful cost in blood. 
The Japanese death rate in the Russian- Japanese 
war on the battlefield, from wounds and from 
disease, was 79 per thousand per year. Assuming 
that the nominal strength of all the nations, 
amounting to 17,000,000 men, is actually called 
out, and that the war lasts one year, the death 
roll would total, at the Japanese rate, 1,343,000. 
Whatever the nimiber of lives cut off before their 
time may be, the productive power and purchas- 
ing capacity of the nations will be reduced by 
just that much. To this must be added the 



i66 



EUROPE AT WAR 



productive capacity of other scores of thousands 
doomed to drag out the rest of their Hves as hope- 
less cripples or invalids, unable to take care of them- 
selves, to say nothing of caring for others. Finally, 
the birth rate will be reduced by all these horrors, 
so that altogether the warrmg nations vnil be set 
back many years in the march of progress. Tak- 
ing all these things into consideration, it must be 
conceded that our trade with Europe is not likely 
to be what it has been for some time to come. 

All this is but the climax to a ruinous drain 
that had continued until the world was suffering 
from a famine of capital. The belhgerents had 
been spending upward of a billion dollars a year 
in preparation for war, which was the best possi- 
ble way to make war inevitable. This vast ex- 
penditure served no useful purpose, but, to- 
gether with the earning capacity of four million 
men withdrawn from useful labor to serve in 
the armies, was as utterly lost as if it had been 
sunk in the depths of the ocean. Besides this, 
financiers had just completed the task of raising 
considerably more than a billion dollars to foot 
the bill for the wars in the Balkans, added to 
which England was still paying interest on a debt 
of more than a bOlion dollars incurred in the Boer 
War. The economic convalescence of the na- 
tions must be slow, because they were fuiancially 
anemic before the war began. 

Still there is a streak of silver, even in this 
sombre cloud. The warring millions ^vill have to 
be fed and clothed somehow. At whatever sacri- 
fice, they will have to raise money with which to 
buy the necessaries of life, and to a large extent 
they will have to buy from us. They must find 
some means of getting provisions across the sea, 
if they have to send a whole fleet of battleships 
to convoy each freighter. Also, the rest of the 
world must turn to us now for the manufactured 
goods formerly purchased from the warring na- 
tions. A little more than half our foreign trade 
last year was with nations not directly concerned 
in the war. There is now a chance for us to ob- 
tain the bulk of the trade Europe formerly en- 
joj'ed with these nations. The prompt action 
of New York bankers in establishing a sort of 
international clearing house to offset the collapse 
of all ordinary foreign exchange indicates a 



disposition to take advantage of the oppor- 
tunity. 

Indeed, some of the ablest financiers now assert 
that the present situation is this Nation's great 
opportunity if we but have the wisdom to grasp it. 
We can become the leader of the world in in- 
dustry, commerce, and finance if we will, so these 
farseeing men aver. In order to do this we 
must economize. The rich have been economiz- 
ing in recent years, but the farmer and the work- 
ingman have been growing ever more profligate. 
As the second step toward world leadership they 
say we must enact the trust bills over which Con- 
gress has been deliberating all summer. Everj'^- 
body knows there are underlying evils that need 
to be cured, and which these bills are intended to 
cure. They may not be perfect measures, but 
at least they make a beginning and they can be 
improved later as experience may suggest. 

One effect of the present situation will be to 
compel us to finance our own ventures, since 
we can get no capital from Europe. The bankers 
say we can do it. 

Another effect of the war wOl be to cut off im- 
migration. Naturally, no man capable of bear- 
ing arms will be aUowed to leave any of the na- 
tions involved while hostilities last. After- 
ward they will be even more urgently needed 
than they are now. This vnll not be a serious 
drawback, because there is labor enough here now 
to meet the demand, though the restriction of 
cheap labor will check the wasteful development 
of natural resources and compel the conserva- 
tion of which so much has been said, but toward 
which so little has been done. 

Another effect will be to compel the United 
States to provide its own merchant marine so 
that we may no longer be dependent on foreign 
ship owners to get our products to market. The 
Administration has already perceived this, and 
has begim the task of modernizing our archaic 
shipping laws. Lest this remedy prove inade- 
quate or too slow in effect, the government itself 
also proposes to go into the shipping business. 

Another effect which will inure to out benefit 
is that we shall be compelled to manufacture our 
own cotton instead of sending so large a portion 
of it abroad to be manufactured. 



OUR RIGHTS AND DUTIES AS A NEUTRAL 



BY CHARLES CHENEY HYDE 

PROFESSOR OF INTERNATIONAL LAW IN NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY 



UPON the outbreak of the European war 
the United States finds itself placed in a 
new relation to each belligerent Power, 
and suddenly subjected to a variety of duties, and 
possessed of certain rights that accrue only in 
such abnormal times. With a merchant marine 
shrunken to insignificance, and with a vast export 
trade threatened with paralysis by the lack of 
neutral bottoms, we nevertheless face a situation 
that Washington would have rejoiced to substi- 
tute for that which confronted him in 1793, for 
to-day the United States as a neutral enjoys 
rights that were not dreamed of at the close of the 
eighteenth century; and those rights are in large 
degree codified. 

To The Hague Conventions of 1907, concerning 
the rights and duties of neutral powers in naval 
war, and the rights and duties of neutral powers 
and persons in case of war on land, the United 
States is, happily, a party. It has also accepted 
the Declaration of London of 1909, concerning the 
laws of naval war. The purpose of that agree- 
ment was to make clear the law to be applied by 
the proposed International Prize Court, the 
arrangement for the establishment of which was 
formulated at The Hague in 1907. Though the 
powers have not established the Prize Court or 
accepted generally the Declaration of London, 
the United States has formally ratified both agree- 
ments. By so doing it has recorded its approval 
of the rules enunciated in the latter document. 
It cannot, therefore, complain of the conduct of 
any belligerent which may seek to conform to or 
rely upon them. Although the Parliament of 
Great Britain has acted adversely upon the 
Declaration of London, that country is, neverthe- 
less, free to change its position and to make that 
arrangement the guide of its own prize courts. 
Deriving their law from that source, their decis- 
ions cannot be denounced by us as unjust. For 
these several codifications the United States has 
had to pay a price the extent of which is hardly 
yet appreciated. However useful may be the 
knowledge at the very commencement of hostili- 
ties of what a neutral may reasonably expect, the 
rules themselves are in certain respects so adverse 
to interests of such a state that it is only through 



the grim experience of a general European war that 
the United States can fairly estimate how well it 
has conserved its vital interests in accepting as 
law principles that may now be relentlessly applied. 

According to The Hague Conventions the 
United States as a government is obliged to 
refrain from taking any part in the war. Im- 
partial participation does not suffice. We could 
not excuse the sale ofarms to Germany by pleading 
readiness to supply likewise France or Russia. 
The scope of the duty of abstention is broad. 
The Government must not furnish a belligerent 
with anything that will serve to increase its fight- 
ing power, such as ammunition or other war 
material, or warships. Incidental to this general 
duty to abstain from participation, the neutral 
finds itself burdened with a still more onerous 
duty to prevent its territory and resources from 
being employed to strengthen the military or 
naval power of a belligerent. The diligence re- 
quired of a neutral is measured by the "means at 
its disposal." Those means must be used to 
prevent the commission of warlike acts within 
its waters, or the passage of beUigerent troops over 
its territory. The neutral is obviously not respon- 
sible for what it is powerless to prevent. 

From the rules of the Treaty of Washington of 
1871, which made possible the Geneva Arbitration 
of the so-called Alabama Claims, has been derived 
the well-known principle expressed in happier 
terms in 1907, that "a neutral Government is 
bound to employ the means at its disposal to 
prevent the fitting out or arming of any vessel 
within its jurisdiction which it has reason to be- 
lieve is intended to cruise, or engage in hostile 
operations, against a Power with which that 
Government is at peace." The same vigilance is 
required of a neutral to prevent the departure 
from its territory of a vessel there adapted entirely 
or partly for warlike use, and intended to cruise 
or engage in hostile operations. Pursuant to 
this obligation the United States has already taken 
extraordinary precautions to prevent the depart- 
ure from Atlantic ports of merchant vessels sailing 
under belligerent flags if equipped in such a way 
as to fight for their own countries, and under con- 
tract for public service in case of war. 



167 



i68 



EUROPE AT WAR 



In sharp contrast to these obligations is the 
express understanding that a neutral is not bound 
to prevent the export or transit for the use of a 
belligerent of anything which can be of use to an 
army or a fleet. Thus the United States is not 
required to prevent its citizens from selling or 
exporting arms or war material of any kind. 
Such transactions would, nevertheless, constitute 
direct participation in the war, and hence be re- 
garded as internationally wrongful, so as to sub- 
ject the participant to serious penalties in case of 
the capture of his property. Such conduct would 
also, moreover, disregard the spirit if not the 
letter of President Wilson's Proclamation of Neu- 
trality of August 4th, in which it is declared that 
"the statutes and the treaties of the United States 
alike require that no person within the territory 
and jurisdiction of the United States shall take 
part, directly or indirectly, in said wars." 

Whether war is waged on land or sea, neutral 
territory is deemed mviolable. As to this re- 
quirement The Hague Conventions are explicit. 
Acts of war in neutral waters are forbidden. 
Thus if the Kronprinussin Cecilie had been cap- 
tured by any enemy cruiser just as she entered 
Frenchman's Bay on August 4th, the United 
States would have had good cause to demand 
reparation from the government of the captor, and 
would also have found itself compelled to demand 
the release of the vessel. A prize court can not 
be set up on neutral territory or in neutral waters. 
Nor can belligerent warships make use of such 
waters for the purpose of increasing supplies of 
war material or of completing their crews, or as a 
base of operations against the enemy. 

For numerous purposes a belligerent warship 
may endeavor to make use of neutral waters. 
The Hague Convention of 1907 indicates the 
scope of the privileges that such a vessel may 
permitted to enjoy, and thereby enables the 
neutral to follow with certainty a course that shall 
not expose it to the charge of unneutral conduct. 
Let us consider a situation that might arise. 
A French cruiser, short of coal and provisions, 
and in an unseaworthy condition is pursued by 
the enemy, and puts into Portland harbor to es- 
cape capture and to rehabilitate herself generally. 
Just inside of Cushing's Island she finds herself in 
the unwelcome company of a German warship 
that made the same port a few hours earlier. 
The Hague Convention has marked out the gen- 



eral course which the United States should follow; 
and by his Proclamation of NeutraUty, President 
Wilson has indicated with precision what we 
would permit. Accordingly, the French ship would 
be allowed fuel sufficient to enable her to reach 
her nearest home port, or half of that amount 
if she were rigged to go under sail and also be 
propelled by steam. Although the United States 
could, without impropriety, if it had adopted 
that method of determining the amount of fuel 
to be supplied, allow the vessel to fill its bunkers 
built to carry fuel, and thereby greatly increase 
her efficiency, the President has announced a rule 
that is consistent with our previous policy and in 
harmony with what was, prior to 1907, generally 
regarded as sound practice. The latitude ac- 
corded the neutral in 1907 was not sought by the 
United States, was vigorously opposed by Great 
Britain, and was the result of a compromise to 
satisfy the far-reaching demands of Germany. 
With respect to provisions, the French ship could 
supply herself with garlic and Aroostook County 
potatoes ad libitum, so long as the revictualing 
did not exceed the so-called "peace standard." 

It if were in a seaworthy condition the German 
cruiser would be obliged to depart within twenty- 
four hours after its arrival. The French vessel 
might, however, be allowed additional time if 
needed for recoaling or repairs. The latter might 
necessarily consume a few days. Repairs would 
not be permitted that would serve to do more than 
place the ship in a seaworthy condition, and even 
such repairs would not be allowed if they necessi- 
tated a long sojourn. If, as in the case of the 
Russian ship Lena, that entered San Francisco 
harbor in September, 1904, during the Russian- 
Japanese war, necessary repairs would require a 
stay of several weeks or months, the vessel would 
be promptly interned by the United States. By 
interning the ship the United States would be 
taking measures to render her incapable of putting 
to sea during the war. 

It was declared in 1907 that the citizens of a 
state which is not taking part in the war are con- 
sidered as neutrals. To the Americans that are 
now in belligerent European countries that status 
is precious. It enables the possessor to escape 
numerous burdens which the state that is engaged 
in war justly and of necessity imposes upon its 
own citizens. One cannot, however, avail him- 
self of his neutraUty if he commits acts against a 



UNITED STATES AS A NEUTRAL 



169 



belligerent, or if he voluntarily enlists in the ranks 
of a party to the conflict. There are, nevertheless 
services which the neutral citizen on beUigerent 
soil may render without losing his distinctive 
character. Americans in Paris or Berlin might, 
for example, organize for the purpose of assisting 
in matters of police or civil administration. They 
might also furnish loans (if their means permitted) 
to one of the belligerents in whose territory they 
did not reside. 

Neutrals on belligerent territory where martial 
law has been declared necessarily feel the rigor 
with which the government asserts its authority. 
It must be obvious that measures which, in seasons 
of peace, indicate abuse of power, in times of war 
lose their arbitrary aspect and, despite harsh 
aspects, cease to be regarded as wrongful. Thus 
the movement of neutrals on belligerent soil may 
be restrained, and they may be even temporarily 
prevented from leaving the country. Slight 
ground for suspicion that they are acting as spies 
justifies arrest and ample inquiry to determine 
the grounds for such a charge. 

To the people of the United States as a whole 
the war presents no graver aspect than in its 
bearing upon our right to export and transport 
to the belligerent countries food, clothing, fuel, 
and other things known as conditional contra- 
band. To make clear the problem now confront- 
ing us a brief explanation of the law is necessary. 
"Contraband" is the term employed to describe 
an article which is Uable to capture because of its 
use in the prosecution of the war, and because of 
its hostile destination. Contraband is subject 
to capture on a neutral vessel and is Liable to con- 
demnation. Goods which belong to the owner 
of the contraband and which are on board the 
same vessel are also liable to condemnation. 
Moreover, according to the Declaration of Lon- 
don, the vessel carrying such articles may be con- 
fiscated if the contraband forms "by value, by 
weight, by volume, or by freight, more than half 
the cargo." Maritime states have long been aware 
of the importance of the distinction between 
articles adapted solely for use in war, such as 
guns and projectiles, and those susceptible of use 
in the pursuit of peace as well as in that of war, 
such as food and coal. Articles of the former 
class have come to be known as absolute contra- 
band, those of the latter as conditional contra- 
band. The purpose of the distinction is to limit 



the right to capture articles of the latter kind to 
occasions when they are destined for an essentially 
hostile end, and to permit the capture of those 
of the former kind whenever they are bound for 
the territory of a state engaged in war. In order 
to protect neutral commerce from interference, 
the United States has struggled hard for recogni- 
tion of the principle that what is capable of 
feeding and clothing, and otherwise ministering 
to the sustenance of the people of a belligerent 
state, should not be subject to capture and con- 
demnation, unless shown to be not only capable 
of use in war, but also destined for that use. 
Though maritime states are not indisposed to 
accept this principle, there has been diversity of 
opinion respecting, first, what articles should be 
treated as conditional contraband, and secondly, 
under what circumstances articles recognized as 
such should be subject to capture. The Declara- 
tion of London appears to have solved the first 
difficulty by specifying in appropriate and careful 
lists certain articles as absolute, and others as 
conditional, contraband (and still others as not 
contraband at all). Thus arms of all kinds, gun- 
mountings, clothing, and harness of a distinctively 
military character, animals suitable for use in war, 
and armor-plate are among the articles placed in 
the first category. They are subject to capture if 
destined to territory belonging to or occupied by 
the enemy. This is true whether the carriage of 
the goods is direct, or entails transhipment or 
subsequent transport by land. What is decisive 
is the destination, not of the vessel but of the 
goods. Thus a consignment of uniforms, shipped 
from New York on an American vessel boimd for 
Naples or any other neutral European port, would 
be subject to capture, even within sight of Nan- 
tucket, if it were shown that the ultimate destina- 
tion of the goods was Trieste. 

Articles in the second category, and described 
by the Declaration of London as conditional con- 
traband, include foodstuffs, gold and silver, paper 
money, boots and shoes, vehicles, material for 
telephones and telegraph, fuel, lubricants, and 
harness. These articles furnish a substantial 
portion of the export trade of the United States. 

The second difficulty already noted — con- 
cerning when conditional contraband is subject 
to capture — is the all-important question before 
the United States to-day. In more concrete and 
simpler form the question is: When is such 



I70 



EUROPE AT WAR 



contraband to be deemed to be intended for a 
hostile use so as to justify its capture? The vital 
significance of the answer that the belligerents 
may give is hardly yet appreciated. Thus far pop- 
ular attention in this country has been focussed 
on the lack of American and other neutral ships 
available for our foreign trade. Relying upon 
the assurance that "free ships make free goods," 
we have concerned ourselves about vehicles of 
transportation rather than with the safety of oui 
produce. It is important to note what assurance 
the Declaration of London affords. It is there 
provided that conditional contraband is liable 
to capture if shown to be destined for the use 
of the armed forces of a belligerent, or for a 
department of its Government unless, in the latter 
case, circumstances show that the goods cannot 
in fact be used for the purposes of the war. (This 
exception is not, however, applicable to a con- 



signment of gold or silver, or paper money.) 
It is further provided that a hostile destination 
is presumed to exist in case the goods are con- 
signed, not only to enemy authorities, but also 
to a contractor in the enemy country who as a 
matter of common knowledge supplies articles 
of the same kind to the enemy. Again, a similar 
presumption arises if the goods are consigned to 
a fortified place belonging to the enemy or to 
another place serving as base for its forces. 

In the meantime American exporters must 
face the fact that, if propriety of conduct is to 
be tested by the Declaration of London, the belli- 
gerent Powers are in a position to capture and 
condemn foodstuffs, coal, and other articles witliin 
the same category, with an ease that renders 
shadowy and dangerously vague the distinction 
between what is conditional and what is absolute 
contraband. 



AMERICAN FINANCES 

BY CHARLES A. CONANT 



SINCE war was declared, American mar- 
kets have stood up under a tempest of a 
character never before encountered since 
the creation of the modern mechanism of finance. 
For a few days it looked as though the entire 
machinery of banking and credit built up in 
Europe during forty years of peace had been 
brought to a standstill, and as if the American 
market would be compelled also to suspend its 
activities. 

The New York Stock Exchange, under a 
torrent of orders from Europe to sell American 
securities held abroad, remained open until the 
close of business on Thursday, July 30, but was 
closed the next morning after a consultation be- 
tween the governing board and big banking in- 
terests. In the meantime, the usual mechanism 
of foreign exchange had broken down, partly be- 
cause shipping was threatened by the war and 
insurance rates for the shipment of gold had be 
come prohibitive. Even such credits as were 
possessed by American banks abroad were in a 
state of suspense and drafts on England which 
should have been sold at the highest at $4.90 
to the pound sterling rose to $5.25 and even in 
some cases to $6. 

The seriousness of the situation abroad was 



manifested by almost every cable message which 
came from the great centres of finance, — Lon- 
don, Paris, Berlin, Amsterdam, Brussels, and 
Petrograd. The French and Enghsh govern- 
ments promptly declared a moratorium, which 
means that the holder of documentary obUgations, 
like bills of exchange and promissory notes, can- 
not enforce payment according to the terms of 
the obhgation until the delay granted has expired. 
In France, the payment of specie at the Bank of 
France was promptly suspended; in Germany, 
gold was gotten only with difficulty and in trifling 
amounts from any of the banks; in Belgium, specie 
suspension occurred; and in Holland, similar 
action was accompanied by authority to the 
National Bank of the Netherlands to issue addi- 
tional notes to the amount of $200,000,000. In 
France, also, the limit of circulation of the Bank 
of France was increased at a jump from 
$1,300,000,000 to $2,300,000,000. 

Even the rock-ribbed Bank of England was 
subjected to a run for gold in exchange for its 
notes which cut down its reserve by more than 
$50,000,000 in less than a week and led ultimately 
to the suspension of the bank act of 1844, which 
limits the amount of notes that can be issued 
without gold. London has long prided herself 



AMERICAN FINANCES 



171 



on being the clearing house of the world, and on 
being the only market where obligations were al- 
ways payable promptly for their full value in 
gold. The very fact, however, that the London 
market was a clearing house for obligations from 
all over the European Continent and from Africa, 
Asia, and Latin America, which could not be col- 
lected promptly, naturally deprived her of the 
means of making her usual settlements and made 
it necessary to allow a breathing spell in order to 
reconstruct the machinery of exchange. 

THE PREPARATION FOR A CRISIS 

This breakdown in European finance took 
place in spite of a long period of preparation 
for the stress of war on the part of farsighted 
statesmen and bankers in Europe. The fact was 
clearly recognized after the Morocco crisis of 
1911, which brought France and Germany nearly 
to the verge of war, that the European banks 
were inadequately equipped for a great struggle 
in arms. At once, the Imperial Bank set to work 
to strengthen its gold reserve, with entire in- 
difference to the usual principles of political 
economy determining the free movement of gold. 
It appeared as a high bidder at the London auc- 
tions for the gold which arrived from South Africa 
every week; it husbanded all the gold which en- 
tered the bank in the course of ordinary opera- 
tions; and it greatly expanded the issue of notes 
for 50 marks ($11.90), and 20 marks ($4.76), 
which had never been issued prior to 1906. 

The bankers of France and Russia, witnessing 
this feverish activity in Germany to increase her 
gold resources, met her on the same ground. 
Within a year and a half, the three state banks 
of France, Germany, and Russia drew into their 
vaults an amount of gold equal to the entire pro- 
duction within that time which was available 
for monetary uses, exclusive of the amounts re- 
quired in the arts and for exportation to India. 
Their total increase in gold holdings in eighteen 
months was about $360,000,000, and shortly 
before Austria delivered her brutal ultimatum to 
Servia at the close of July, the gold holdings of the 
Bank of France had reached $792,160,000; of the 
State Bank of Russia, $819,700,000; of the Im- 
perial Bank of Germany, $336,000,000; and of 
the Bank of Austria-Hungary, $254,400,000. 

To these gold war funds, the United States 
contributed during the spring of the present year 



up to the end of June, about $84,000,000 in the 
form of gold exports. When the war clouds broke 
into storm, a new effort in Europe to turn other 
forms of wealth into gold caused gold exports 
from New York in three weeks of $46,000,000, 
and sales of securities on the New York Stock 
Exchange which would probably have called for 
$30,000,000 more. 

The American market had remained, up to 
the very eve of war, comparatively indifferent 
to the gathering storm clouds in Europe. With a 
gold monetary stock in the country estimated at 
about $1,700,000,000, the loss of $100,000,000, 
more or less, caused little alarm. If the same sit- 
uation had arisen in 1895, when the Treasury 
of the United States was on the brink of specie 
suspension, and it was necessarj' to make a con- 
tract with the Morgan and Rothschild houses to 
obtain $65,000,000 in gold and to protect it by a 
monopoly of the market for exchange, the results 
to American finance would have been appalling. 
Attempt to control the exchange market by fixing 
high rates would have been futile against the 
feverish thirst for the yellow metal in Europe, 
which would not have been slaked nor greatly 
restrained by a trifling difference in the cost of 
getting it. 

A STRONG POSITION 

Fortunately, the finances of the United States 
were never in a stronger position to meet such a 
strain than in the closing days of July, 1914. 
Even on the stock market, liquidation had been 
so long going on and speculation had been so dis- 
couraging in its results, that there were only a 
few margined accounts to be thrown over and 
only moderate loans outstanding on the part of 
the banks to commission-house brokers. In 
respect to its gold equipment, the United States 
was stronger in some senses than even Russia 
and France, with the mountains of the yellow 
metal at the command of their central banks. 
The amount in gold certificates outstanding at 
near their maximum point on AprO 30, 1914, was 
$1,158,997,000. These certificates represent 
simply deposits of gold on behalf of the owners in 
the custody of the Government and are only a 
part, although a large part, of gold resources of 
the country. 

The Treasury could afford to look on with 
comparative indifference while certificates were 
turned into coin and the coin went abroad; for 



172 



EUROPE AT WAR 



neither of these operations affected directly 
the legal tender reserve in gold, fixed by the gold 
standard law of 1900 at the sum of $150,000,000, 
nor did they affect directly the "free gold" in the 
Treasury cash, which stood on July 31st at a 
point above $130,000,000. Under the gold stand- 
ard law. United States notes are redeemable 
on demand from the legal tender reserve of 
$150,000,000, but when so redeemed may be 
exchanged for gold in the general cash of the 
Treasury, if gold is found there. Never since 
the enactment of the law in 1900, has the legal 
tender reserve fallen below the legal limit of 
$150,000,000; and this reserve was buttressed by 
a fund of $130,000,000 of free gold in the Treasury. 

.\CTION BY THE GOVERNMENT AND THE BANKS 

When it became apparent, however, that the 
demands of Europe for gold might be almost 
limitless, if she could throw upon the New York 
market the great mass of American securities 
in which she had invested, prompt and energetic 
action was taken by the banking interests of 
New York and of the Government to protect 
the situation. First, on Friday morning, July 31, 
came the closing of the Stock Exchange; at a meet- 
ing of the Clearing House Committee on Sunday 
August 2, it was decided to issue Clearing House 
certificates for use between the banks of New 
York in settling clearing-house balances; and on 
Saturday, August i , the Hon William G. McAdoo, 
Secretary of the Treasury, arrived in New York 
and entered into earnest conferences with the 
banking interests, with the result that the Treas- 
ury arranged for the prompt issue of emergency 
bank notes to enable the banks to substitute 
notes for gold certificates in the circulation 
and thereby husband their gold and build up 
their reserves. These reserves had fallen from 
$466,577,000 for the week of July 25th to 
$444,436,000 on August I, and fell still further, un- 
der the pressure of gold exports, to 386,589,000 
on August 8. 

If jealousies or distrust had existed between 
the big financial interests in New York and the 
administration at Washington, they were quickly 
forgotten under the pressure of the general peril. 
The Democratic leaders in Congress took prompt 
action to liberalize the Aldrich-Vreeland law of 
1908, which would have expired by limitation on 
June 30, 1914, but for the forethought of Senator 



Owen, chairman of the Senate Committee on 
Banking, and Chairman Carter Glass, of the 
House Committee, and an amendment received 
the approval of President Wilson on Tuesday, 
August 4, doing away with this limitation and 
extending the authorized aggregate of new note 
issues from $500,000,000 to 125 per cent, of the 
capital and surplus of the banks, or more than 
$2,000,000,000. 

It was probably fortunate for the country that 
the organization of the new system of Federal 
Reserve banks had been delayed up to the break- 
ing out of the crisis. The new system might have 
been very effective in protecting the situation 
if it had been in complete operation; but in a 
period of transition, which would have called for 
the shifting of considerable amounts of legal 
tender money from the old national banks to the 
new Federal Reserve banks, it would have proved 
a source of embarrassment without having any 
completed powers of relief. In preparing meas- 
ures, however, for meeting the difficulties of the 
situation, the Secretary of the Treasury had the 
assistance of those three members of the Federal 
Reserve Board, who had already been confirmed 
by the Senate, — Hon. Charles S. Hamlin, former 
Assistant Secretary of the Treasury; Mr. W. 
P. G. Harding, an Alabama banker, familiar 
with the conditions for moving the cotton crop; 
and Dr. Adolph C. Miller, a trained political 
economist. 

EASING THE STRAIN 

These gentlemen remained in New York during 
the period of acute pressure for currency and 
superintended the issue within a week of 
$46,514,980, in new notes, to New York banks 
alone. The peculiar value of these notes in reliev- 
ing monetary strain is that they can be paid out by 
the banks in response to calls for currency, whether 
from interior banks or from individuals, and 
thereby permit the banks to husband their gold 
certificates and build up their reserves. Inci- 
dentally also they equip the banks with increased 
lending power without dipping into their reserves. 

Sanity gradually returned to the financial 
markets in London as well as New York as soon as 
the efficiency of the steps taken in both countries 
began to be recognized by the financial commun- 
ity. The Bank of England, which lost in a week 
more than $50,000,000 in gold, gained gold 
rapidly during the second week in August. The 



AMERICAN FINANCES 



173 



rush for the redemption of bank notes in gold was 
brought to an end when the government author- 
ized the bank to issue notes in excess of the legal 
limitand put out notes for ten shillings ($2.44) and 
£1 ($4.88), which had not before been done since 
the recovery from the Napoleonic wars. The 
discount rate of the Bank of England, which was 
raised on Friday, July 31, to 8 per cent., and on the 
next day to 10 per cent., was reduced in the follow- 
ing week to 6 and then to 5 per cent., and accom- 
modation was extended as usual to solvent clients. 
The deadlock in exchange with the United 
States was partially broken by the same firm 
which had saved the United States Treasury 
from specie suspension in 1895. It was an- 
nounced on Thursday, August 6, that the govern- 
ment of France had deposited with the Paris 
ofhce of J. P. Morgan & Company, a sum of about 
$6,000,000, which was subject to drafts by the 
French Ambassador in Washington. By means 
of checks drawn upon this fund, but delivered to 
J. P. Morgan & Company in New York, the 
French Government would be able to purchase 
supphes in the United States and the drafts 
would release an equal amount of money in New 
York, which could be applied to obUgations of 
French bankers and importers to bankers and 
e.xporters in New York. A clever move in the 
same direction was announced by the Bank of 
England on August 11, by which the Canadian 
Treasury Department was made a branch of the 
bank and custodian of the gold due the bank in 
New York. By this means the gold held on this 
side of the water could be counted as a part of 
the reserve of the bank against its note issues 
and deposit liabilities in England. 

AMERICAN SECURITIES HELD IN EUROPE 

Perhaps the most serious feature of the war 
panic abroad, in its effect on American finance, 
is the sending back of American securities held 
in Europe, to be unloaded on the New York Stock 
Exchange at any price for cash. For many years, 
a portion of European savings has been applied 
to investment in the United States, until the 
amount thus invested has reached, according to 
the computations of Sir George Paish, editor 
of the London Statist, no less a sum than 
$6,000,000,000. In Canada, also, it is estimated 
that foreign capital is invested to the amount of 
more than $3,000,000,000. The amount invested 



in the United States, which is principally in the 
form of secauities, represents nearly the entire 
value of the annual production of the country, 
and more than half the aggregate assets of the 
national banks. 

Securities issued for railway-building and in- 
dustrial enterprises represent fixed capital which 
is the result of the savings of years and in modern 
times has come to exceed many times the amount 
of annual production. Obviously, it would be 
impossible for the United States to buy back, 
even at low prices, the entire mass of American 
securities which have been placed abroad. The 
problem, fortunately, cannot present itself in 
quite so crude and appaUing a form, but the 
necessity of taking back even one-fifth or one- 
tenth of this huge mass of obUgations would be 
sufficient to cause derangement in the money 
market and serious declines in stock exchange 
prices. It was for this reason that it was necess- 
ary to close the Stock Exchange on July 31, under 
the torrent of frightened European selhng, and it 
will be necessary to study the situation in this 
respect carefully before the American Stock Ex- 
changes can be again opened for business. 

DISTRIBUTION OF THE COSTS OF WAR 

Even if the war should come to an end in a few 
months, the echo of its disturbing effects would 
be felt in the market for capital, because of the 
considerable loans which it would be necessary 
for the governments involved to offer to the public. 
Experience in former wars has shown that the 
countries which prepare to absorb new issues of 
their national loans do so by quietly reducing their 
holdings of foreign securities. In time of peace, 
this would not be done with the precipitation and 
sacrifice of values which occur under the threat 
of war, but the effect would probably be to depress 
the price of other securities and make it difficult 
to obtain capital for new enterprises while the 
costs of war were being distributed over the world's 
money markets. 

America, therefore, whatever her temporary 
profits from an enhanced demand for certain 
products and the opening of new opportunities 
for her commerce and shipping, will be compelled 
to bear some share of the loss caused by the con- 
sumption of hundreds of milUons of the world's 
savings in supporting contending armies and keep- 
ing them supplied with the weapons of destruction. 



THE WAR AND OUR OCEAN TRADE 

BY WINTHROP L. MARVIN 



WITHOUT undertaking to consider the 
causes, the fact is that when Great Bri- 
tain, Germany, France, Russia, and Aus- 
tria plunged into war in the midsummer of 1914, 
their merchant ships and the ships of the few mari- 
time nations remaining neutral were carrying 92 
per cent, of the overseas trade of the United States, 
^a trade which in the latest fiscal year was valued 
at nearly four billions of dollars. Our principal 
carriers were Great Britain and Germany, and 
the ships of the latter's flag were at once removed 
from consideration, — bottled up at home or 
abroad by the superior naval power of the enemy. 
There ensued, of course, a paralysis of export 
and import commerce that struck at the pros- 
perity of every part of the nation. What hap- 
pened was precisely what Washington and Jeffer- 
son had foreseen in the last years of the Eighteenth 
Century. Then they aroused their countrymen 
to vigorous measures of self-defense, and in a 
few years the danger was averted, — the United 
States became a mercantile marine power of the 
first rank. If the same result follows upon the 
present acute emergency, the loss and suffering 
now inevitable will not have been entirely in vain. 

ONLY SIX TRANSATLANTIC STEAMSHIPS 

But this looks ahead, and present conditions 
demand immediate attention. At the outbreak 
of the war, the American flag was flying over only 
six steamships out of the two or three hundred 
liners regularly engaged in the great transatlantic 
trade between the ports of the United States and 
the ports of Europe. These six steamships, which 
have since proved so conspicuous and useful as 
the favored refuge of returning American tourists, 
are the St. Louis, St. Paul, New York, and Phila- 
delphia, of the American Line from New York to 
Cherbourg and Southampton, — 20-knot passen- 
ger, mail and express freight vessels of 11,000 and 
10,000 tons, — and the Finland and Kroonland, 
i6-knot steamships of the Red Star Line from 
New York to Plymouth and Antwerp, — vessels 
of 12,000 tons, with excellent passenger accommo- 
dations and a considerable cargo capacity. Not 
one of the latest Atlantic leviathans has sailed 
under the Stars and Stripes. All of these six 
American steamships are in the service of the 



International Mercantile Marine Company. The 
four first named are the regularly subsidized 
transatlantic postal fleet of the United States, 
and the Finland and Krootiland were built in 
anticipation of a later subsidy measure which 
was not enacted. 

Occasionally an American steamer of the 
coastwise fleet, chartered for a particular purpose, 
makes a voyage to Europe, but these six steamers 
represent the entire shipping facilities available 
imder the American flag in the regular transat- 
lantic trade when the great war opened. Imme- 
diately the six ships were sought by all Americans 
in Europe who could secure passage by them 
and realized the safety that lay in the folds of 
their country's flag, and they have been and will 
continue to be sought for the same reason by 
the shippers of bullion and valuable cargo. 

Besides these six American steamers, the war 
at the outset left neutral a few small steamship 
lines under the colors of Spain, Portugal, and 
Scandinavia. The Holland-America steamers 
have been forced to traverse a danger zone, the 
Belgian steamers of the Red Star line went almost 
immediately into the belligerent class, and a 
hazard of eventual participation clings to the 
steamship lines of Italy. 

MORE SHIPS IN THE WEST INDIES 

This was a grave crisis from the standpoint of 
ocean transportation, for the United States lost 
at once the dependable use of its principal ocean 
carriers. Not only were the regular lines affected, 
but the slow freighters, the wheat and cotton 
ships, belonged chiefly to the belligerent nation. 
They were held at home or at distant ports, and 
with almost two-thirds of the cotton crop and 
many millions of bushels of the huge grain crop 
demanding markets overseas, the United States 
has been involved by the war in an incalculable 
misfortune. For it is only in Europe, convulsed 
by the war, that the great bulk of our surplus 
cotton and grain can be disposed of, — relatively 
small quantities having been sent to the ports of 
other continents. 

Though the war in its first effects crippled 
steamship communication on the transatlantic 
routes, it has had no such disastrous results on 



WAR AND OUR TRADE 



175 



the routes to the West Indies and the nearer ports 
of Atlantic South America. American shipping 
holds a respectable place in the trade of the Carib- 
bean region, and about one-half of the entire 
commerce of that region is and long has been with 
the United States. A strong American steam- 
ship service, — that of the Ward Line, — connects 
Mexico, Cuba, and the Bahamas with New York. 
This is a mail-subsidized service, and so is that of 
the Red D Line from New York to Venezuela via 
Porto Rico. Our West Indian colony is under 
the coastwise laws and possesses communication 
in ships of several American lines with New York 
and ports of the Gulf of Mexico. The Panama 
Railroad Steamship Line, another American serv- 
ice operated by the War Department, runs from 
New York to Colon. The Clyde Line runs to 
Santo Domingo, and the Southern Pacific Line 
from New Orleans to Cuba, which has steamship 
connections also with the Florida peninsula. 

Ships of the large fleet of the United Fruit 
Company, sailing imder British and other foreign 
colors (because of higher American wages and 
severer requirements of American law) but so 
securely American in ownership that they are 
not likely to be disturbed, ply between our At- 
lantic and Gulf ports and Jamaica, Cuba, Central 
America, and the Isthmus of Panama, and the 
Munson Line, also with American owned ships of 
foreign register, is an important factor in the 
Cuban trade. The United Fruit Company may 
come completely under the American flag. The 
Atlas Line of German steamers has been with- 
drawn from the New York-West Indian service, but 
otherwise our West India communications have 
not been and presumably will not be seriously 
reduced. 

Nor is there any hazard in the war to what is 
now the most important steamship service under 
the American flag, — the long- voyage coastwise 
service through the now-open Panama Canal, 
between the Atlantic and Pacific seaboard. In- 
telligent and active preparations for this trade 
have been made by American shipping men, and 
the list of available Panama coast-to-coast steam- 
ships under the American flag has been increased 
by new vessels and new companies. The Ameri- 
can-Hawaiian Company has completed its great 
fleet of twenty-six steamships of a total dead 
weight capacity of nearly 300,000 tons; the Emery 
Company, of Boston, has appeared upon the 



route, and the International Mercantile Marine 
Company has confirmed its purpose to offer a 
passenger service that will become available as 
soon as the war will permit. These Panama 
steamers are all of bona fide American ownership 
and register, the great present hope of our mer- 
chant marines. They are sufficient in number 
to provide a sailing from the Atlantic or the Pacific 
every business day throughout the year. 

On the Pacific, one American steamship of 
the Great Northern Company from Puget Sound, 
and four or five steamships of the Pacific Mail 
Company from San Francisco, run to Japan, 
China, and the Philippines. The Oceanic Steam- 
ship Company operates a reestabhshed postal 
subsidy line from San Francisco to Australasia. 
The Pacific Mail maintains a service from San 
Francisco toCentral America and Western Mexico. 
Thus, in spite of the general weakness of the 
American merchant marine in foreign trade, there 
are routes upon which the Stars and Stripes still 
hold a place of dignity and power. There is, 
however, no American steamship line to the 
greater countries of South America, with the 
exception of one freight line operated by the 
United States Steel Corporation with chartered 
ships of the American-Hawaiian Company from 
New York to Brazil. 

RIGHTS OF NEUTRAL CARRIERS 

The catastrophe of the war is heaviest in the 
vast, rich commerce of the North Atlantic. 
Both the grain and the cotton crops are coming 
forward. Where are the ships requisite to carry 
them? The important service of the two great 
German steamship companies, the Hamburg- 
American and North German Lloyd, has ceased 
to exist. A merchant ship of a belligerent, even 
laden with cargo that is in itself non-contraband 
and even bound to a neutral port, is a lawful 
prize of war. Great Britain and her allies dom- 
inate the sea, and German ships and Austrian ships 
are for the time being eliminated from inter- 
national commerce. 

Ships of neutral nations can nominally trade 
to all ports, even ports of belligerent nations that 
have not been formally blockaded, but in effect 
the widening of the definition of contraband to 
include conditionally even such articles as food 
stuffs very seriously circumscribes all practicable 
war-time commerce. Petroleum, another of our 



176 



EUROPE AT WAR 



most important exports, is absolutely under the 
ban as contraband, and even such harmless ar- 
ticles as cotton or woolen cloths are liable to 
seizure and confiscation if of the nature of miUtarj' 
uniforms. 

The truth is that in a great world-shaking war 
many settled principles of international law are 
sure to be denied or disregarded. Each belligerent 
on the ocean assumes to be a law unto himself. 
Theoretically, until formal blockade is proclaimed, 
as was done by our Government in the Civil War 
with the ports of the Confederacy, an American 
ship or any other neutral ship has a right to carry 
a clearly non-contraband cargo to Bremen or 
Hamburg or Trieste. But, as a matter of fact, 
no American or other neutral ship will dare to do 
this, except as a desperate speculation. The 
North Sea is already filled and the Adriatic may 
soon be with mines, fixed or floating, those dead- 
liest devices of twentieth century war. It is the 
misfortune both of Germany and of Austria that 
their coast lines are relatively short and readily 
closed by an enterprising enemy, and direct com- 
mimication with their ports even under a neutral 
flag can doubtless be regarded as an impossibility 
for the present. Whether or not a blockade is 
proclaimed, a blockade actually exists, and Ger- 
many and Austria must be dismissed from con- 
sideration as consumers of products of the United 
States, — save, indeed, for what small commerce 
may persist through the ports of Holland, Scan- 
dinavia, and Italy, so long as these remain neu- 
tral states. 

But the ports of Great Britain, except those 
on the northeast coast, and the ports of France 
ought to remain open to the neutral commerce 
of America. Already a large part of the service 
of British and French transatlantic steamship 
companies has been cautiously resumed, and the 
critical situation of crowds of American refugees 
in Europe is now a thing of the past. 

It must be expected, however, that the British 
and French steamship schedules will be liable 
to interruption throughout the war, because of 
imperative demands of the home government for 
ships for transport or other auxiUary service. 
These lines cannot be depended on in war as they 
could be in peace. It must not be forgotten that 
the German navy contains some of the swiftest 
and most formidable cruisers in existence. One 
or two of these ships, slipping out of the North 



Sea through the British blockade and falling on 
the transatlantic route, would create a panic and 
make insurance rates on British and French mer- 
chant ships prohibitive. This danger is liable 
to increase as the war continues and the situation 
of Germany, ringed in by foes, becomes more des- 
perate. Americans -mil remember that the Con- 
federate commerce destroyers were relatively 
harmless in the first year of the Civil War, and 
that their sharpest depredation occurred in the 
years 1863 and 1864, — indeed, one of these rovers, 
the Shenandoah, did her deadhest work after the 
war had ended. 

WHAT CAN BE DOfTE? 

Already freight rates to north European ports 
have doubled, and there has been an increase of 
50 per cent, in the rates to countries outside of the 
war zone, to Africa and South America. Insur- 
ance rates also have attained excessive figures, 
though they are significantly low for ships flying 
the American flag, of unquestioned American 
ownership, on the American register before the 
war began. The United States, as the greatest 
and most powerful of neutrals, is in a position 
to command respect for its own ships and its own 
citizens. It is very fortunate for the country that 
the American naxy because of the quality of its 
ships, guns, and personnel is a factor which no 
belligerent would Ughtly draw into the scale 
against it. 

Our Government in this crisis should insist with 
firmness on full neutral rights for aU its ships and 
cargoes. If the nation possessed a great mer- 
cantile marine, or was rapidly creating such a 
marine, this would be an unexampled opportunity. 
Undoubtedly there will be additions to our over- 
seas tonnage from the larger vessels of the coast- 
wise trade. Some of these have already been 
chartered and others are being offered by their 
managers. The Clyde and Mallory lines and 
their allied companies have signified that eighteen 
steamers to carry grain or cotton are at the service 
of the Government. The American-Hawaiian 
Company has other and larger steamers ready. 
It so happens that because of the general depres- 
sion in domestic business many American coast- 
wise vessels have been lying idle in port awaiting 
an improvement in trade or the opening of the 
Panama Canal. Seventeen such vessels have 
been unemployed at Boston, thirty at New York, 



WAR AND OUR TRADE 



177 



and more than forty at San Francisco. Some are 
too small for profitable overseas voyaging, but 
some are larger vessels carrying from 5,000 to 
10,000 tons. 

One factor, beyond the lack of ships, which 
has temporarily crippled the e.\-port trade is the 
breakdown of exchange. This is a financial and 
not a transportation difliculty and it can be 
remedied. Another factor of discouragement has 
been the heavily increased insurance rate, so high 
as to leave small profit to shipowners and owners 
of cargo. But this difiSculty is being lifted with 
the adoption by Congress of the plan recom- 
mended by President Wilson for the Government 
insurance of ships of American register. 

THE EMERGENCY SHIPPING MEASURE 

Vigorous insistence on the rights of neutrals, 
the use of coastwise vessels wherever practicable, 
and national insurance of American vessels will 
be straightforward and practical methods of relief 
of the war congestion of our export and import 
trade. Congress has already at this writing 
passed the emergency shipping measure in the 
form in which it was sought by the Administra- 
tion. This bill passed the House after a very 
brief debate. In the Senate, an unwise attempt 
was made to take advantage of the emergency in 
our overseas shipping business to force foreign- 
built ships into the coastwise trade, which had 
been reserved for more than a hundred years to 
American ships and American citizens. This 
ill-timed attempt would have destroyed the pros- 
perity of our coastwise shipping and would soon 
have destroyed ship-building in America. If it 
had been successful it would have defeated the 
purpose of the emergency shipping bill, which was 
to provide foreign-built ships for the carrying of 
oiu- overseas commerce. Such ships, if ad- 
mitted to American registry, would have pre- 
ferred the coast trade to the overseas trade, be- 
cause of the greater security in the domestic 
traffic from interference by belligerents. 

Fortunately, the prompt and vigorous opposi- 
tion of the merchants, shipowners, and ship- 
builders was heeded by the public men in Wash- 
ington and the attack on the coastwise trade which 
would have resulted so disastrously for the coun- 
try was defeated in the Senate by a vote of two 
to one. 

Then the original emergency shipping bill, as 



the House had framed and passed it was adopted. 
This provides for the admission to American 
registry of foreign-built steamships, without re- 
gard to age, owned by American citizens or by 
American corporations of which the president 
and managing directors are American citizens. 
Further to encourage the naturalization of foreign- 
built ships, the President is authorized in his dis- 
cretion to suspend the requirement of existing 
law that the ofiicers of American ships shall be 
American citizens. The President is also author- 
ized in his discretion to suspend the requirement 
that foreign-built ships shall comply with Ameri- 
can laws governing survey, inspection, and meas- 
urement. 

The new law in its terms actually grants a 
valuable preference to foreign-built ships over 
existing ships on the American register. It is an 
unmistakably liberal proposition, — an urgent 
invitation to the ships of the world to seek the 
American colors. Indeed, American ownership 
may be merely nominal for it can be secured by 
foreign capital through the simple expedient of 
organizing an American corporation in which only 
three or four ofiicers need be American citizens, 
holding the few shares of stock necessary to 
qualify. 

Unknown to many of the people of this country, 
a free-ship policy had been in effect here since the 
enactment of the Panama Canal act of August 
24, igi2. This admitted to American registry 
for the foreign trade any foreign-built vessel, less 
than five years old, owned by American citizens 
or an American corporation and capable of being 
certified after inspection as fit to carry dry and 
fjerishable cargoes. Not one ship of any kind 
was actually admitted to American registry under 
the provisions of this law. It proved an absolute 
failure, because no compensation was offered for 
the higher wages of American officers, for the 
higher wages of crews if shipped from American 
ports, for the higher cost of food and general 
maintenance on ships under the American flag, and 
for the foreign subsidies and bounties that would 
have to be reUnquished by some foreign ships if 
transferred to American registr>'. 

GOVERNMENT OWNERSHIP DANGEROUS AND 
INEFFECTIVE 

Recognizing already that even the broader 
free-ship proposition will fail of adequate result, 



178 



EUROPE AT WAR 



President Wilson has brought forward a new and 
radical expedient, — Go\ernment ownership of 
steamship lines. The maximum of $30,000,000 
which the President asks Congress to appropriate 
for the purchase and operation of foreign-built 
steamships in Government lines under the Amer- 
can flag is only a small fraction of the amount 
requisite to create an adequate fleet. The pro- 
posal is a makeshift, and a perilous makeshift, for 
the mere introduction of it has aroused resent- 
ment abroad and provoked warning that the 
American nationality of ships bought from belli- 
gerents in this belated and dubious way would 
not be accepted for a moment. Thus both the 
emergency shipping measure and this later plan 
of Government ownership involve grave risk of 
international complications. Though Great Bri- 
tain did not sign the London conference agreement 
of 1909, the following declaration is at least 
morally binding as the latest expression of inter- 
national opinion: 

The transfer of an enemy vessel to a neutral flag, effected 
after the opening of hostilities, is void unless it is proved 
that such a transfer was not made in order to evade the 
consequences which the enemy character of the vessel 
would involve. 

One steamship service is now owned by the 
Government, — that of the Panama Railroad 
Steamship Company, acquired from the French 
with other assets of the old canal. This line, 
though favored in the transportation of Govern- 
ment supplies, has incurred heavy deficits in 
some years when private-owned competing lines 
earned reasonable dividends. It is an unfortu- 
nate precedent; the experience of the United 
States in ocean trade with the one line which it 
controls is not encouraging. 

The great, unmistakable lesson of this war to 
the American people is that an adequate merchant 
marine can no more be improvised in an emer- 
gency than can an adequate fighting navy. The 
heavy cost of our lack of American ships will be 
borne throughout the war, not by the maritime 
States, but by the cotton-growing States of the 
South and the wheat and the grain-growing States 
of the Middle West, many of whose public men 
and pubUc Journals have for half a century shown 
themselves indifferent or hostile to every effort 
to create an American ocean shipping. 

It was these influences, from the interior of 
the country, that defeated the earnest efforts of 



President Roosevelt and of President Taft to 
secure national aid for the establishment of steam- 
ship lines to South America and across the Pacific 
Ocean. Both Mr. Roosevelt and Mr. Taft 
pointed out that the inland States needed a mer- 
chant shipping even more than the seaboard 
States. But inland statesmen caused the defeat 
of the shipping bill by narrow majorities in the 
House of Representatives. Their own people, 
their own agricultural constituents, are now pay- 
ing the penalty, and, in spite of all efforts to pre- 
vent it, that penalty will have been a heavy one 
before this war is ended. 

More than a century ago. President George 
Washington and Thomas Jefferson, his Secretary 
of State, warned their countrymen in a joint 
communication to Congress that dependence upon 
foreign nations as our sea carriers was a costly 
blunder, for aside from the disastrous effects upon 
our ship-building and seamanship which these two 
great Americans vividly pictured, "our products, 
carried in foreign bottoms, would be saddled with 
war freights and insurance in time of war." 

Congress listened, and passed one after another 
laws that brought the American tonnage regis- 
tered for overseas commerce up from 123,000 in 
1789 to 667,000 in 1800 and to 981,000 in 1810. 
At the beginning of this period, American ships 
were carrying 23 per cent, of this country's im- 
ports and exports; and at the end of the period, 
they were carrying 91 per cent. 

Many of the admonitions of the founders of 
the republic have been remembered, with profit, 
by subsequent generations; this, quoted above, 
has been forgotten. Another great world-war, 
as vast and terrible as the Napoleonic struggle, 
has foimd the United States as unprepared and 
helpless to safeguard its overseas trade as it was 
in the first administration of Washington. That 
this is so is going to prove the shame and the loss 
of the American people. 

There are people, — thousands and tens of 
thousands of them, — on the continent of Europe 
who will go hungry in the autumn and the winter, 
if the war continues, because of the lack of Ameri- 
can carriers for our abundant foodstuffs. The 
warring soldiers have left the harvests standing 
in the fields. The havoc of march and battle 
over these fields will be tremendous. There will 
be a grave shortage of food this year in Europe. 
Great Britain may manage to provide ships to 



A CHANCE FOR AMERICAN SHIPPING 



179 



bring supplies for her own people, but she cannot 
do much more. An American merchant marine 
of unquestioned nationality, — not a merchant 
marine of suddenly "whitewashed" ships, — 



would now be a boon to the world, — to the 
people whom its safe neutral carriage could succor, 
as well as to the people whose products it would 
deliver and whose flag it would fly. 



A CHANCE FOR AMERICAN SHIPPING 

BY SYLVESTER THOMPSON 



MANY Americans have found one pious 
hope in the present European struggle: 
that it might stimulate the long deferred 
building of an American merchant marine. Ap- 
parently American enterprise has here a fairer 
opportunity than millions spent in subsidies 
could provide. The great carrying nations no 
longer sweep the seas. There are just about as 
many cargoes, however, to be carried; why should 
we not carry them? — carry them not only for the 
few months the war will probably last, but for all 
time? The United States apparently occupies 
the position of a commercial house whose chief 
rivals have suffered reverses that amount to a 
practical suspension; ordinary business sense 
would spur us to take over their business. Not 
only our business enterprise, but our position as 
a shipping country, should lead us to do this. 
The American who first glances at the figures of 
the world's shipping has something of a shocked 
surprise. He has heard so much about America's 
decline on the sea — about the possibility of 
sailing around the world and never seeing the 
American flag at a masthead — that he naturally 
regards himself as belonging to a nation of land- 
lubbers. In fact we are the second largest ship- 
ping nation in the world: England ranks first, and 
Germany makes not a particularly respectable 
third. The actual figures are 16,541,000 tons 
for England, 7,886,000 for the United States and 
4,593,000 for Germany. But the disturbing fact 
about our large shipping industry is that it limits 
practically all its activities to the Great Lakes 
and our two great coast lines. Nearly all English 
and German shipping goes over seas ; nearly all of 
ours stays at home. Our shipping, therefore, 
helps us out little in the present crisis. Possibly 
a few of these lake and coast vessels might be 
transferred temporarily to the transatlantic lanes ; 
for the most part, however, they have plenty of 
employment in their accustomed waters. Ship- 
ping them to the high seas would cause a complete 



disorganization of coast and lake commerce; de- 
moralize it as completely as the present ocean 
traffic is demoralized. 

American maritime history discloses a series 
of ups and downs; accidental causes at times 
have built up our mercantile marine, at other 
times have destroyed iL We were not much of 
a seafaring people in colonial times; the policy 
of Britain always aimed at keeping this valuable 
business m the hands of Englishmen. But na- 
tional independence swept aside all these anti- 
quated navigation laws. The year 1790 saw 
the young United States with practically no mer- 
cantile marine; Englishmen were then our carriers, 
just the same as they are now. The first year of 
the century witnessed a change; we were then 
carrying 80 per cent, of our own products in 
American bottoms. By 1810 we were carrying 
90 per cent. ; a few years afterward we were carry- 
ing not only our own, but a considerable part of 
the world's. And then followed one of the most 
splendid periods in American commercial history. 
As a maritime nation America led the world; we 
held the position as a carrier that England does 
now. 

What had caused the sudden rise of America as 
a great maritime power? This question has 
the utmost interest in view of the present situa- 
tion. For the conditions that faced Europe in 
the early part of the nineteenth century strongly 
resemble those which face it now. It was the 
era of the Napoleonic wars. These struggles had 
one effect, practically identical with that we are 
witnessing to-day — the utter demoralization of 
European commerce. England and France were 
constantly preying upon each other's mercantile 
marine, the result being that the ships of both 
nations no longer felt secure upon the high seas. 
Both, as great maritime people, suffered a tre- 
mendous decline. Herein was America's oppor- 
tunity, and splendidly she seized it. As a con- 
sequence — and here is another point that has a 



i8o 



EUROPE AT WAR 



present practical application — we retained this 
sea supremacy after the Napoleonic era closed. 
The years from 1830 until about 1855 represented 
the greatest glory of the American merchant 
marine. By the time the Civil War started, how- 
ever, the decline had set in; by the time the war 
was ended, the greatness of our shipping, al- 
though the famous American clippers still sailed 
the seven seas, had disappeared. Authorities 
differ as to the cause of this change. A consid- 
erable number attribute it to the Civil War itself. 
The fact is, however, that our shipping had begun 
to decline several years before the Civil War. By 
1855, as already said, its greatness was a matter 
of history. A new material found use in the 
construction of vessels — iron. When this sub- 
stance supplanted wood in ship building the knell 
sounded for the American merchant marine. 
There was then practically no American iron or 
steel industry. England, on the other hand, 
had greatly developed its iron resources. There 
was only one way, in those days, in which we 
could still maintain a standing at sea: that was 
by purchasing the new fangled ships in Europe, 
mainly in England. But this the law forbade. 
No ship that was not constructed in the United 
States could fly the Stars and Stripes. However, 
this idea, and the many others used to explain the 
disappearance of American foreign shipping, are 
now purely academic. The one fact is that, 
although Americans have built up a large mer- 
cantile marine in their own waters, they have 
practically none on the high seas. We annually 
pay about $200,000,000 to foreign nations for 
the transportation of our products. 

It is not surprising, therefore, that many should 
see in the present European conflict a chance 
to regain our marine supremacy. We did this 
when Europe was convulsed with the Napoleonic 
struggle; why should we not repeat the per- 
formance now? 

One or two considerations at once come to 
mind that apparently discourage such an enter- 
prise. The Napoleonic wars, for example, lasted 
a long time — about fifteen years. This is long 
enough to permit pretty radical and permanent 
readjustments. It gives plenty of time for the 
creation of a mercantile marine, and for the es- 
tablishment of new trade relations. The present 
large shipping interest of Germany is Uttle more 
than a matter of twenty-five years; a generation 



ago Germany had to go to England for her war- 
ships. No one believes, however, that the present 
conflagration will last fifteen years, or anywhere 
near that long; if it lasts fifteen months, most 
observers will be siuprised. The creation of an 
independently constructed American marine fleet, 
therefore, is not likely. Before we could actually 
launch any new ships, the war would be ended. 
One fact, therefore, is at once apparent. The 
commerce of the world has got to use such ship- 
ping facilities as it now possesses. About 15,000 
ships now furnish the world's marine transporta- 
tion. These ships will contrive to do so through- 
out the war, and probably for some time afterward. 
They may change their flags or their ownership; 
if they are kept off the high seas, however, the 
business of mankind will largely stop and many 
milhons of people will starve to death. One can 
imagine what would happen to the United States 
if all our railroads stopped nmnLng. That is 
precisely what is happening now, so far as mari- 
time commerce is concerned. Forces are already 
at work to put an end to this paralysis; and these 
efforts must succeed. 

An analysis of foreign shipping by nationaUty 
will simplify the situation. Take, for example, 
American exports last year, and the nations that 
carried them. We find that 

60 per cent, were shipped in British vessels 
15 per cent, were shipped in German vessels 
9 per cent, were shipped in American vessels 
4 per cent, were shipped in French vessels. 

These figures bring out, as do all other similar 
statistics, the tremendous leadership of British 
foreign shipping. It not only surpasses that of 
any other country; it is greater than that of all 
the other countries combined. If the American 
people are going to carry most of their own com- 
merce in this war they must get not only Great 
Britain's business but Great Britain's ships. 

EVERYTHING DEPENDS ON SEA POWER 

Before that happens, however, certain impor- 
tant preliminaries must be settled. From what- 
ever point of view we survey this war, we invari- 
ably come back to the same point. It all hinges 
upon one thing: the control of the sea. With the 
English navy dominating the situation, England 
probably cannot lose. With the English navy 



A CHANCE FOR AMERICAN SHIPPING 



i8i 



destroyed, England's surrender would come within 
a few weeks. And this question of sea supremacy 
has the most important bearing upon the question 
of the possible boom in American shipping. If 
England destroys or effectively bottles up the 
German fleet, there is no reason why she cannot 
resume the greater part of her shipping. Her 
vessels can carry nearly 60 per cent, of our com- 
merce this year, as they did last. The only 
possible danger is an occasional capture by Ger- 
man cruisers. This danger is so slight, however, 
that it can be practically disregarded. England 
has nearly 10,000 vessels engaged in commerce. 
Where can Germany get any warships to prey 
upon this enormous fleet? She cannot detach 
them from her main squadrons. After all, the 
chief business of warships is to destroy the enemy, 
not to destroy its commerce. Every cruiser that 
is taken from the battle line will weaken a force 
already enormously outclassed. 

Supposing there are a few German cnxisers 
prowling the ocean, what wiU happen to them? 
England's fleet is so large that she can easily 
set aside a few warships to destroy them. If she 
does not do so, where are they to get their coal? 
Where are they to take their prizes, in case they 
capture them? 

It is possible, again, that the English Govern- 
ment may press into the navy part of the mer- 
chant marine. But, with 10,000 ships, a good 
many can be used this way without materially 
decreasing its efficiency. 

Germany's shipping ottr opportunity 

Most naval authorities believe that England 
and France will secure the command of the seas. 
At the present writing the indications are that 
the great German high seas fleet is bottled up. 
Again the English Government has assumed the 
insurance risk on British shipping. It practically 
says to the shipowner: "Go to sea with your 
cargo; if you lose it, the Government will reim- 
burse you." These and other considerations ap- 
parently dispose of the idea that Americans can 
supersede England on the high seas as a result of 
this war. 

If these predicted events come to pass, how- 
ever, there still remains the question of German 
commerce. With the British fleet controlling 
the situation, Germany's mercantile marine, for 
all practical purposes, will cease to exist. Ger- 



many carried 15 per cent, of our commerce last 
year, against England's 60 per cent. Small as 
this seems in comparison with her great rival, this 
still represents a prize well worth striving for. 
Herein unquestionably lies the real American 
opportunity. Under normal conditions the 
sudden wiping out of Germany's mercantile 
marine would mean one thing; that England 
would capture it. But, with a tremendous war 
on her hands, England is not expanding her in- 
dustries in any direction. The war expenses have 
so strained her credit that she would have the 
utmost difficulty in financing any new shipping 
enterprises. The same statement applies to 
France, the only other nation that could possibly 
step into the breach. The opportimity, in all 
its aspects, therefore, seems made for the United 
States. Germany now has about 2,000 ships, 
most of them engaged in the foreign trade. The 
present likelihood is that most of these will stand 
useless at the docks during the war. They repre- 
sent a very large investment; how large there are 
no available statistics to show. Their loss of 
earning power will sadly inconvenience their 
owners, especially if the war is continued for any 
period. The companies will be so badly crippled 
that it will take them a long time to recover, 
when peace returns. In many cases offers to 
purchase would find a ready response. The ex- 
tent to which America profits from the promised 
stagnation in German shipping depends upon 
the extent to which our capitalists stand ready 
to purchase these vessels. Congress has already 
passed an emergency shipping measure. Foreign- 
bmlt ships, old or new, are now entitled to Ameri- 
can registry, provided they are owned by Ameri- 
can citizens or by corporations with an American 
president and American managing directors. 
And the President of the United States has been 
empowered to suspend the legal requirements for 
American officers on American ships, and for the 
comphance, on the part of foreign-built American 
ships, with American regulations as to survey, 
inspection and measurement. There seems little 
likelihood that friendly nations, like England, 
will refuse to recognize such transfers as are 
contemplated, so long as they are actual and 
represent a permanent o^vnership. The Adminis- 
tration, in its zeal to do everything possible to 
improve the situation, has also asked for a maxi- 
mum appropriation of $30,000,000 to enable the 



l82 



EUROPE AT WAR 



Government to purchase and operate foreign-built 
ships under the American flag. But this radical 
measure has met with strong opposition. If the 
present aspirations materialize, it would be the 
beginning of the long hoped for American mercan- 
tile fleet on the high seas. It is true that the 
removal of this prohibition on the purchase of 
American ships would take away only one dis- 
ability that prevents our competing with Europe. 
The others are the higher cost of iron and steel 
and labor here and the higher cost of navigating. 



The first disqualification is rapidly disappearing. 
If we can make steel rails and compete with 
England in all the markets of the world, we can do 
the same thing with plates for steel ships. We 
still pay our workmen higher wages, but we have 
the compensation of an increased efiiciency. Only 
one difficulty still remains in the way of building 
up an American marine. Our sailors get about 
twice the pay of English sailors and demand a 
better maintenance. How that will affect the 
situation remains to be seen. 



THE COMMISSARIAT— THE RED 
CROSS -THE HAGUE COURT 

CARING FOR THE SOLDIER'S HEALTH 



SOLDIERS who escape death on the battle- 
field in the great conflict now going on 
will have a far better chance of returning 
home alive than any soldiers ever had before. 
It must be remembered that in all previous wars 
the real enemy was not the one with gun in hand 
under the opposing flag, but disease, which mowed 
down troops on both sides impartially. It has 
taken the world a long time to grasp so obvious a 
fact, but the lesson has been thoroughly learned 
at last, and it has been applied in all civilized 
armies. 

Sick soldiers of an earlier day received no at- 
tention whatever. If the wounded received any 
care it was from a comrade or from the women 
who followed in the wake of the army. Then the 
barber became the army surgeon, when there was 
any, to give way later to monks. Napoleon paid 
little or no attention to sick and wounded. In 
the Peninsular campaign about 60,000 French 
soldiers were killed in battle in Spain, and about 
400,000 died of disease. In the Russian cam- 
paign of 1812, of 500,000 who crossed the Dnieper 
in June scarcely 20,000 returned in December. 
Bullets killed some, to be sure; the deadly cold 
claimed others; but the great majority perished 
of disease. The 1813 campaign after Leipzig was 
no less disastrous. Of an army of 100,000 that 
left Leipzig in October only a few fragmentary 
battalions followed the eagles across the Rhine 
in November. The total ruin of this army was 
due to sanitary neglect. Soldiers died of disease 
by thousands, scattered among the villages along 
the route from Germany, leaving pestilence in 
their wake. 

In the Crimean campaign 230 out of each 1,000 
British soldiers died annually of typhoid fever, 
dysentery, and other infectious diseases. 

In the Franco-Prussian War in 1870-71, the 
annual death rate from disease among French 
troops was 140.8 per thousand; among the Ger- 
mans, 24.5. 

In the Boer War, lasting two years and eight 



months, 5,774 British soldiers, in a force having 
an average strength of 208,326, were killed in 
battle, and 2,108 died of wounds, a total of 7,882, 
or about 14 per thousand a year. Disease claimed 
14,210, or 25.58 per thousand a year, which was 
almost double the number slain by Boer bullets. 
The total death rate was 39 per thousand a year, 
and the total wastage, including invalided, miss- 
ing, and prisoners, amounted to 40 per cent, of the 
total strength of the army annually. Nearly 3 
per cent, of the total strength was constantly sick. 

In the Russian- Japanese War, which lasted 
twenty months, the number of Japanese alone 
in kDled and death from wounds, averaged 54 
per thousand a year. Disease claimed 27,142, 
or 25 per thousand a year, a showing no better 
than that made by the Germans in the Franco- 
Prussian war. 

The foregoing figures serve to give an idea of 
the magnitude, as well as of the character, of the 
task confronting the medical staff of the modern 
army. All the world seems to have realized after 
the Russian- Japanese War the absolute necessity 
of caring for the health of troops in the field. 
Soldiers are no longer regarded merely as "food 
for cannon," but as valuable property belonging 
to the State, which it is good business policy to 
care for with at least as much pains as are be- 
stowed on other war material. 

In the last ten years the medical staff of every 
army has been completely reorganized and brought 
up to date. In every language elaborate treatises 
have been written on the proper methods for 
preserving the health of troops and for taking care 
of the wounded with a view to returning them to 
the ranks as soon as possible. Text books con- 
taining "problems" are prepared for the young 
military surgeon who aspires to promotion, so 
that he may become skilled in the art of providing 
for large numbers of wounded under various diffi- 
cult conditions, on paper at least. The most 
minute studies have been made of every detail 
in the daily life of the soldier in barracks, on the 



183 



i84 



EUROPE AT WAR 



march, in battle, and after he has been wounded. 

The first department of the army with which 
the prospective soldier comes in contact is the 
medical staff, which examines all applicants for 
enlistment and decides whether they shall be 
accepted or rejected. In England, the only coun- 
try now at war in which military service is volun- 
tary', the physical examination is rigid and the 
percentage of rejections is high. Even in those 
countries in which military service is compulsory 
and universal the unfit are excluded from the 
ranks. The volunteer, or the unwdlling youth 
who reports for his compulsory tour of military 
duty, who is accepted as a recruit is never there- 
after free from the watchful care of the medical 
department untU he is discharged or dies and is 
buried under the direction of that department. 

The medical staff prescribes, or at least modi- 
fies, the exercises and setting-up drill for the raw 
recruit to make sure that he is not overworked; 
for in Europe the young recruit is likely to have 
been imderfed. The medical department makes 
a point of feeding up these weaklings while it 
begins their physical education. Hygiene is now 
all-important in the military world, for the fact 
is recognized that it is much cheaper to keep the 
soldier well than to cure him after he becomes 
ill. Besides, the commander wants a fighting 
force, not a hospital population. 

Thanks to vaccination, tjphoid fever is becom- 
ing a negligible element in the military organiza- 
tion. The United States Army leads the world 
in the extent to which this preventive is used, and 
France is foremost in this regard among European 
nations. 0\\ang to the great numbers in conti- 
nental armies, typhoid vaccination is proportion- 
ately less used than in this country; but American 
military surgeons predict that if the war is pro- 
longed all the troops will be inoculated against 
their deadliest foe. Vaccination against smallpox 
is practically universal. Besides these there are 
numerous infectious diseases for which vaccine 
therapy has, as yet, provided no remedy; and 
these cause the army medical officer no end of 
trouble. Soldiers seem prone to mumps, measles, 
and kindred ailments, which r\m through a camp 
or a garrison as through a boarding school. 

The medical staff is consulted about the sol- 
dier's clothing, and especially about his shoes; 
for if these are not properly made he becomes 
footsore on the march. England, like the United 



States, provides socks for her soldiers; but troops 
on the Continent, if they want such luxuries, must 
buy them themselves. Germany, by unanimous 
consent, is conceded to provide worse boots for 
her troops than any other nation, though im- 
proved footwear has recently been adopted. 

Extraordinary care has been bestowed upon 
the soldier's ration. Since the work men and 
steam engines can do depends upon the amount 
and quality of fuel fed to them, the Continental 
soldier is nourished as carefully as a locomotive 
is stoked by an e.xpert fireman. The army medical 
staff of each nation has made exhaustive experi- 
mental studies in order to arrive at the proper 
quantity of food required by the average individ- 
ual to do the average day's work for a soldier. 
This amount is measured in calories, which is 
the standard heat unit used by physicists, a 
calorie being the amount of heat required to 
raise the temperature of a kilogram of water 
from zero to one degree Centigrade. 

The Russian soldier either requires more food 
than other men, or else he is blessed with a more 
liberal government, for his daily field ration 
amounts to 4,929 calories. The French soldier 
is the next best fed, his daily field service ration 
providing him 3,340 calories. England ranks 
third with a field ration of 3,292 calories, and the 
Dual AlHance is at the bottom of the list, the 
German ration being 3,147 calories, and the Aus- 
trian only 2,620 calories, or but little more than 
half the Russian ration. From the military sur- 
geon's point of view this inferiority in rations 
bodes no good to the Dual Alliance. 

The British ration is not much different from 
that of the American soldier, consisting of a pound 
of bread and three quarters of a pound of fresh 
meat with bone, or seventeen ounces of preserved 
meat when in camp or abroad. In addition to 
these staples, he is allowed a messing allowance 
of twelve cents a day with which to purchase 
vegetables and the like. For service in the field, 
the French and Germans use to some extent tinned 
meats put up with vegetables and consomme. In 
some of their African campaigns the Germans 
found that contractors, with a view to economy, 
had filled the tins chiefly with water; so now the 
Government puts up its own tinned meats for 
army use. 

Food may contain proteins and carbohydrates 
in the proper proportions and be in good condition 



THE SOLDIER'S HEALTH 



i8s 



yet so unappetizing as to cause aversion, or even 
loathing; so the army medical ofEcer must see that 
the troops have the proper condiments to season 
their food and that it is well cooked. For this 
purpose they visit the men at meal time. Only 
last year the sanitary chief of the French army 
reported that the food of the soldier had been 
most carefully considered and regulated with 
proper regard to obtaining the highest efficiency 
from the individual fed on a scientific diet. Since 
1905, when the doctors recommended a better 
cooked and more varied diet, a system of instruc- 
tion in cookery had been introduced in the army 
with gratifying results. One of the results is a 
death rate in time of peace of only 3.75 per thous- 
and as compared with a fraction more than 20 for 
the nation, and 8 per thousand for the civilian 
population between the ages of 20 and 22. 

The motor omnibuses, familiar to visitors to 
Paris, are now being used, with wire screens re- 
placing the windows, to convey fresh meat to 
the French troops in the field. One of these ve- 
hicles can haul a load of two and a half tons of 
frozen beef imported from Argentina, or fresh 
killed beef from the herd, about forty miles back 
from the front. 

To wash down his carefully measured dose of 
proteins and carbohydrates the English soldier 
is allowed twenty-two hundredths of an ounce 
of tea daily. On the Continent the average sol- 
dier prefers coffee. The French soldier is pro- 
vided with a coffee mill; but the Germans, at 
least in some of their African campaigns, had to 
use the butts of their rifles, which proved to be a 
very poor substitute for a coffee mill. 

From the military surgeon's point of view, 
water is even more important to the soldier than 
food. The classic example illustrating the con- 
sequences of a hard march without water is 
Napier's description of the march after Sauroren, 
when "many fell and died convulsed and frothing 
at the mouth, while others whose spirit and 
strength had never before been quelled leant on 
their muskets and muttered in sullen tones that 
they yielded for the first time." 

It is an axiom among mountain climbers that 
"the more you drink the farther you go." The 
soldier is not allowed to drink whenever he pleases. 
On the contrary the medical staff insists that 
water discipline is as essential as firing discipline. 
They say a man is not allowed to expend a single 



round of ammunition without authority, and that 
he should not be allowed a drop of water without 
specific permission while on the march. Indeed, 
in some native regiments in India, the water 
bottle is carried so its owner cannot reach it while 
marching. He can get a drink only when halted 
for that purpose. 

The time for drinking and the quantity to be 
allowed have been carefully calculated on a scien- 
tific basis. It has been found that the evapora- 
tion of two grams of water abstracts one calorie 
from the body and that the average e.xpenditure 
of energy per man in marching is 90 calories per 
mile, which is equivalent to the evaporation of 
180 grams of water. In six miles the evaporation 
amounts to onehtre, or if pints, or, say, one-for- 
tieth of the water in the body, which is about as 
much as should be lost without replacing, if full 
vigor is to be maintained. But as it takes a 
march of about three fourths of a mile to raise 
the temperature to the evaporating point, the 
military surgeon calculates that the men should 
be halted after marching the first seven miles, 
when they should be aUowed the contents of their 
water bottles, which hold one litre. After that 
they should be allowed one litre every six miles. 
In the German Army during manoeuvres mounted 
officers, or orderUes on bicycles are sent ahead of a 
marching column to warn the inhabitants of 
villages to turn out and have water ready on both 
sides of the road for the troops. If possible a short 
halt is made while the men refresh themselves; 
if time presses they must snatch a drink as they 
pass and if they can manage it, they also fill 
their water bottles. 

The medical staff is keenly interested in the 
equipment the soldier carries and the manner 
of its adjustment; for every pound added to his 
load means the expenditure of energy at the 
rate of 4.5 small calories a minute, and an awk- 
wardly placed load may interfere with his breath- 
ing, or do some other mischief. 

Foreign writers pay the American army the 
compliment of saying that it has the best selected 
and best managed equipment in the world. 
Something appears to be wrong with all other 
equipment and the way it is carried, according 
to medical writers on the subject. 

Here is what every soldier must carry about 
with him all the time while in the field; a rifle, 
weighing about 9 pounds, with bayonet, cleaning 



i86 



EUROPE AT WAR 



materials for keeping his gun in order, ammunition, 
and an entrenching tool; his clothing, including 
coat, trousers, puttees, boots, neckcloth, hand- 
kerchief, a change of underwear, identification 
disk, and first-aid dressing; food, including one 
reserve or emergency ration, or, in the case of 
the Germans and Austrians, two reserve rations, 
and in the case of the Russians two and a half; 
water bottle, mess tin, knife, fork and spoon, 
though the Russians carry merely a wooden 
spoon stuck in the boot in lieu of these refinements; 
accoutrements, including knapsack, belt, and 
braces; a great coat, and half a shelter tent, 4x6 
feet which, upon being buttoned or hooked to 
another half carried by another man, forms a 
shelter for the two; personal necessaries, including 
toilet articles and spare linen. In the case of 
the British soldier this totals 47 pounds; in the 
case of the Germans, 38 pounds, and the French, 
44 pounds. These lighter weights are due to the 
fact that the French and Germans carry fewer 
rounds of ammunition than the British soldier, 
who never has less than 1 50 rounds. The Russian 
soldier has the hea\'iest load of all to carrj', 61 
pounds; or, when he sets out with four days' 
rations and extra ammunition, 72 pounds. 

The medical department also prescribes rules 
for the sanitation of the camp, disposal of waste 
material, and sees that public as well as personal 
cleanliness is enforced. 

Though it finds its sphere of greatest useful- 
ness in maintaining the troops at the maximum 
of physical efficiency, thereby contributing di- 
rectly to their fighting effectiveness, the medical 
department has a second important function, 
and that is to relieve the field force of the incum- 
brance of sick and wounded. In this work the 
authority of the medical director, or chief surgeon, 
is supreme. In time of peace the medical de- 
partment has constantly imder its care from 3 
to 4 per cent, of the entire force; in war, more 
than twice this proportion. The department 
must provide everything required for the well- 
being of the men, their medical and surgical 
treatment, food, clothing, and transportation, 
from the time they fall out of the ranks till they 
return. 

Every soldier carries, in a sealed tin box, a 
first-aid packet, consisting of a bandage, gauze, 
and adhesive plaster. If the wound is but slight 
and in an accessible place the soldier may apply 



the dressing himself; if more severe, a comrade 
may apply it for him. The importance of this 
first-aid may be better understood when it is 
said that infection is the most frequent cause of 
death from wounds not immediately fatal. This 
first-aid serves the double purpose of preventing 
infection to a large extent and of checking 
hemorrhage, which ranks third in causes of death 
from wounds, shock being second. Military 
surgeons say that the great majority would re- 
cover from gun shot woimds if infection could 
be prevented. The fate of the wounded is in the 
hands of the man who appUes first aid. 

The wounded soldier, with or without first-aid 
dressing, passes back to the rear by way of dress- 
ing stations beside an ambulance in a spot that 
is more or less sheltered from hostile fire to the 
field hospital. As soon as he can stand trans- 
portation, he is passed on to the general hospital, 
and thence in due time to the convalescent camp 
to recuperate. A large proportion of the wounded 
require transportation by litter and ambulance 
to the field hospital, which is located as near the 
firing line as prudence will permit. 

Though the medical staff of no two nations is 
identical, it may be said, in a general way, that 
equipment is provided on the theory that if the 
number engaged is 18,000, 20 per cent., or 3,600 
will be dead on the field; 8 per cent., or 1,440, 
will be so severely wounded that it will be inad- 
visable to move them; 40 per cent., or 7,200, will 
be able to walk, one half of them to the station for 
the slightly wounded at the rear, the rest to the 
dressing station, and 32 per cent, will require 
transportation. In recent wars the mortality 
among the wounded collected and transported 
to the rear has averaged from 3 to 6 per cent. 
In the Manchurian campaign one third of the 
wounded Japanese returned to the ranks within 
a month. 

In deciding on his arrangements for a battle, 
the chief surgeon bears in mind that the wounded 
will be distributed in "zones of losses." The 
usual proportion of wounded is 20 per cent, up to 
1,000 yards range; from 1,000 to 400 yards range, 
60 per cent; in the final rush 10 per cent; in pur- 
suit, 10 per cent. The field hospital is not pitched 
till the tactical situation develops and the point 
where the main attack is to be made is known. 
Then a site is chosen beyond range of the enemy's 
fire, accessible to front and rear by road, yet off 



THE SOLDIER'S HEALTH 



187 



the route of march of advancing troops, convenient 
to wood and water and, if possible, near buildings 
which may be used for the overflow of wounded, 
for, of course, casualties in battle are not limited 
by rule, and the facilities provided may be over- 
whelmed. Conditions on the battlefield are all 
unfavorable for clean surgical work, and it is often 
impossible to reach many of the wounded for 
hours. The results achieved by modern military 
surgeons under the difficulties inherent in their 
work seem little less than miraculous. 

A pleasant fiction widely credited is that men 
have been studying for years to make war more 
humane — as if war could be humane ! For ex- 
ample, one of these "humane" devices is the 
small bullet at high velocity. Stories are told 
of men who, after being shot through the chest 
or head with a modern bullet, about the diameter 
of an ordinary lead pencil, have walked long dis- 
tances to the dressing station and have then re- 
covered in a miraculously short time. 

Military surgeons who have seen actual service 
tell a different tale. It is true that really slight 
wounds made by modern bullets heal more quickly 
and thoroughly than in former days. But severe 
wounds are no less severe and much more frequent. 

The Germans use a steel-jacketed bullet with 
a core of lead hardened with antimony. The 
steel jacket frequently comes off in jagged frag- 
ments which horribly lacerate the flesh. 

The French bullet, a mixture of copper and 
zinc, is not jacketed, but is longer and sharper 
than the German bullet. Bent by ricochetting, 
it often enters the body as a hook; sometimes it 
"tumbles" and enters broadside on, making a 
long, gaping wound. Up to a range of about 
eight hundred yards one horror is as bad as the 
other. These "humane" bullets have three 
general effects: up to a range of 500 yards they 
have an explosive effect, splintering the bone so 
thorouglJy as to explain the frequent accusation 
that explosive bullets have been used; at ranges 
of 500 to 1,500 yards the effect is comminutive, 
grinding the bone to powder, and not infrequently 
carrying with it into the wound fragments of 
soiled clothing, thus causing gangrene. The third 
effect is contusive. A bullet fired into an empty 
metal vessel enters and leaves by a small hole. 
Fill the vessel with water, and the bullet will still 
enter by a small hole, but will make a large, 
jagged wound in leaving. The bullet has exactly 



the same effect on the body or the head. In any 
case the bullet strikes a hea\'y blow as with a club. 

Modern bullets are "humane" only when 
compared with the effects of shells, and it must 
be remembered that a far greater proportion of 
casualties are due to shells than ever before. In 
the Franco-Prussian War, shell wounds were 91 
per thousand; in the Manchurian campaign the 
ratio had increased to 176 per thousand, and in 
the Balkan War of 1912 the proportion was 364 
per thousand. The Russians in Manchuria called 
shrapnel " the devil's watering-pots. " When they 
burst they scatter hundreds of round bullets as 
well as fragments of the shell itself. They are 
most deadly within a radius of ten to thirty yards, 
but even at a hundred yards the "dewdrops" are 
lively enough to penetrate six inches of pine. The 
common shell is still more terrible. The frag- 
ments, heated to a very high temperature by the 
explosion, burn the flesh so as to compel cries of 
agony that only morphine can quiet. The large 
shells of the navy not only cut like razors, but 
asphyxiate, amputate portions of the body, and 
crush. Altogether, the experienced military sur- 
geon is not unduly impressed with the "humane" 
aspects of war. 

The last service rendered to the soldier by the 
medical department is to see that he is promptly 
buried after the battle; for as he has now become 
rubbish, or waste matter, his disposal is properly 
a part of the sanitary work of the medical staff. 
The widow and orphans, waiting at home until 
anxiety deepens into dread, and dread into des- 
pair, may be able to form some estimate of the 
reverent care with which this last rite is performed 
for their loved one, " humanely " killed by modern 
methods, when they know that the chief surgeon, 
according to the standard authors, counts on a 
burial squad of five hundred men disposing of 
140 bodies an hour, after the bodies have been 
collected. 

Of the many disastrous absurdities for which 
war is responsible, this matter of caring for the 
soldier's health furnishes its full share. Think 
of it : the soldier is trained and nourished like a 
race-horse, that he may be raised to the highest 
pitch of efficiency — before being exposed to an- 
nihilation; while the enemy's soldier is first torn 
into pieces by our guns, and then carefully 
patched together again by our surgeons. And 
man is said to be a reasoning animal. 



THE RED CROSS 

BY ARNO DOSCH 



THE women of many nations wearing the 
Red Cross are following the armies on to 
the battlefields. The work of the Red 
Cross is more rapid and effective than ever be- 
fore. Hospital corps have trailed ammunition 
wagons and the wounded have often been moved 
to field hospitals before the first numbness of in- 
jury has given way to pain. This is modern war- 
fare, as unbelievably humanitarian as it is bar- 
barous. 

Every European nation in the war has an 
efiScient Red Cross of its own. In every one the 
Red Cross has a somewhat different standing. 
In Russia it stands higher than anywhere else. 
It is given great freedom and deserves it. At the 
same time it is more of a state affair than any- 
where in Europe. It is supported by special 
taxes and is given unusual privileges at all times. 
The nurses of the Red Cross form a sisterhood. 
They are, in a measure, consecrated to the cause. 
The Russians have come to a better understanding 
of the usefulness of women nurses on the battle- 
field than have the people of any other nation. 

At the outbreak of the Spanish War, the Rus- 
sian Red Cross, which was at the time almost the 
only effectively organized Red Cross in the world, 
offered its services to both the United States and 
Spain. The United States declined, but Spain 
accepted. The United States might have done 
better to accept. Lack of a modem Red Cross 
was responsible for much suffering and loss of life 
in Cuba and Porto Rico. Tampa and Chicka- 
mauga might have had other stories to tell if the 
Russian Red Cross had been there to help. Now 
of course, such conditions would be impossible. 
Our own Red Cross has learned how to handle 
the situation. 

The Russians divide the field work of the Red 
Cross into five divisions: Handling supply depots; 
taking the injured back from the firing Une, which 
means an emergency transportation system; as- 
sistance to the regular surgeons; direct rehef on 
the battlefield; and caring for the feeding stations 
in the rear of the army. In war time the Russian 
Red Cross does more than the Red Cross of any 
other nation. Russia began developing the Red 
Cross in the Crimean War. When the Russian- 



Japanese War came on, the "white trains" given 
by wealthy nobles were particularly conspicuous. 
Altogether, the Red Cross took to the front 3,000 
carloads of material and food. The nurses were as 
eflScient at the front as the organization was in 
forwarding suppUes. At the fall of Port Arthur 
all stray ends of that ugly business were left to 
them. The Red Cross really did the evacuating. 
When Mukden was evacuated there were many 
hundreds of wounded whom it was impossible 
to move. Surgeons and nurses remained behind 
with them and were given every courtesy by the 
conquering Japanese. 

The Japanese themselves developed the Red 
Cross into the best possible field force in a very 
short time. Taking advantage of the patriotism, 
the women of all Japan were organized. The 
nurses and cooks formed one body and went to 
the front. Another body developed lunch and 
refreshment rooms, and women everywhere made 
bandages and helped prepare field outfits. Now 
the Red Cross operates hospitals throughout 
Japan, and one out of every forty persons in the 
empire belongs to the Red Cross organization. 

In contrast to Russia's attitude is Germany's 
limitation on all volunteer nursing. It is con- 
trary to the German character to leave matters 
of that kind to any chance. It is all worked out 
methodically by the army medical corps, and the 
volunteers are held in check. They are used to 
help expand the regular forces, but they have no 
such independence of action as they enjoy in 
Russia. 

The French Red Cross has more of the liberties 
of the Russian. It is a question of national tem- 
perament. The French in their nursing make 
up for lack of drill by the enthusiasm with which 
they enter into the work. The volunteer French 
Red Cross is composed, as in the United States, 
of the best trained nurses in France. They have 
no experience in that particular service, but they 
understand nursing and sanitation. They art 
organized according to army divisions and do 
better work perhaps because of their freedom 
from red tape. 

The Italian Red Cross is admittedly the best 
organized for war, and here again its effectiveness 



188 



THE RED CROSS 



189 



is due to the lack of restraint. The Austrian Red 
Cross has also been giving a good account of itself 
for several years. Its organization is much like 
the Italian. 

Almost every nation was represented in the 
Red Cross in the Balkans, but the absence of 
Red Cross organizations in the Balkan states 
themselves brought about in the first battles 
suffering to which only the battlefields of the 
Middle Ages could offer comparison. Stories 
that came to the outside world from the few 
nurses present roused the world and made the 
later battles less awful. The graphic account of 
twenty-four hours at an operating table in the 
rear of the Servian army, as told by the Countess 
Maggiolini, did more for humanitarianism in the 
Balkan wars than any other single influence. 

The Red Cross will probably be even more con- 
spicuous in this war than in any previous one. 
Where lines are so tightly drawn and the fighting 
is frequently in a comparatively small area, the 
crossing of lines and the invasion by hospital corps 
of hostile territory bring up fine points. It is a 
question how far the Red Cross may go toward 
reUeving the suffering of the noncombatants with- 
out interfering with the brutal purpose of war. 
There will be charges of violation of the Red Cross, 
and the extent to which the Red Cross will be 
permitted to go will depend largely upon the 
humanitarianism of the individual commanders. 
Despite its many other activities the Red Cross is 
always associated with the battlefield. There it 
has certain coveted rights in the name of human- 
ity, and it never yields any. If anything, it is 
inclined to stretch them. At its conventions 
war is always foremost, as there is a perennial 
discussion as to its rights. Part of the purpose 
of war is to lay waste the invaded country and 
make its inhabitants suffer want. The Red Cross 
stands for the alleviation of suffering wherever 
found. These two cross purposes constantly 
clash, and the needs of war generally win. The 
Red Cross can go no further than it is permitted. 
It can be only just so bold before it is interfered 
with. 

Besides trying to define and enlarge its rights 
on the battlefields, the Red Cross conventions 
bring out new inventions for giving better service. 
The Dowager Empress of Russia contributed a 
fimd of about $50,000 to stimulate the inventive 
ability. The first prize is of 6,000 rubles, about 



$3,000, the second of 3,000 rubles, and the third 
1,000 rubles. These prizes, known as the Marie 
Feodorovna prizes, have been won for the inven- 
tion of a considerable list of handy contrivances 
— from stretchers which can be changed to meet 
almost any condition, to handy kits for the uses 
of nurses in war. They have been awarded for 
practical things, and the work of the Red Cross in 
the present war, as well as the work of the medical 
corps, will be greatly facilitated by the fact that 
those prizes were given. 

When the Geneva Convention was held in 1864 
the world had been sickened with the smell of 
blood. The horrors of war were uppermost in 
the minds of people. It was possible to gain a 
wide appeal for the movement. But it was found 
out before long that work of the Red Cross was 
not always to the best interests of a conquering 
army, and this, added to the poor handling of the 
Red Cross, caused a reaction. In England's 
various campaigns, particularly in Egypt, the Red 
Cross met almost violent opposition from the 
English army officers. It was not vmtil army 
officers discovered in the Spanish War that the 
Red Cross could be effectively used for repairing 
broken men that it began to gain in standing. 

From the devoted labors of scattered volun- 
teer nurses, typified and ennobled in Clara Bar- 
ton and Florence Nightingale, the immediate care 
of the wounded has become a part of the modem 
fighting machine. It was found in the last war 
in the Balkans that it paid as a mere matter of 
repairing the injured men. Unless a man was 
mortally wounded or required a capital operation, 
he was usually back in the ranks fighting in two 
weeks. The Red Cross had become a repair shop. 

Efficiency has come in the Red Cross, as a 
matter of fact, only with the passing of the com- 
passionate women like Clara Barton. She was 
frequently alone on battlefields in the Civil War 
where hundreds lay wounded. She was nothing 
short of the "angel of the battlefield." The same 
was true of Florence Nightingale in the Crimea. 
Those two women made names for themselves 
that will outlast war. But the movement lan- 
guished. The American Association of the Red 
Cross, of which Clara Barton was president for 
twenty-two years, consisted chiefly of a dozen 
women. The American National Red Cross of 
to-day, incorporated in 1905, after Clara Barton's 
death, has 3,500 trained nurses, all with three 



igo 



EUROPE AT WAR 



years' hospital training, ready to mobilize as 
rapidly as the army. 

If the United States were to go to war the 
volunteer organization of the Red Cross would 
in fact be mobihzed with the army. This was 
made possible by an Act of Congress two years 
ago authorizing the spending of the money. 
Much the same thing happened when the Euro- 
pean armies mobilized. Not only the highly 
developed hospital corps were immediately behind 
the artillery, but the Red Cross came in behind 
as medical reserve fully as well equipped. In 
most of the armies, in fact, every soldier has had 
an emergency kit the existence of which was due to 
the Red Cross movement. 

The Red Cross has become what it is in this 
country to-day largely on account of the un- 
necessary sickness at Chickamauga during the 
Spanish War. The modem sanitation campaign 
carried on since by army surgeons, for that matter, 
also had its rise in the Spanish War. The clean- 
ing up of Havana led to the sanitation of the 
Canal Zone. The English learned their lesson 
in South Africa, although the peculiar unhealth- 
fulness of much of India had already forced some 
measures of care. Both the Japanese and Russian 
armies were followed in the Russian-Japanese 
War by very good Red Cross corps. They worked 
together sometimes, in sorting the wounded, and, 
through the French Red Cross, which was also 
very active in Manchuria, the names of the dead 
were listed to be sent back to friends and families. 
The French Red Cross served as a news agency. 

Although the International Red Cross was or- 
ganized at Geneva in 1864, it is only during the 
past fifteen years that it has become of great 
importance. This was almost simultaneous with 
the discovery in poverty of the man who was 
responsible for it. Jean Henri Dunant, the Swiss 
author, the founder of the Red Cross, who stirred 
Europe with the horrors of war and brought about 
the international convention at Geneva, was 
found in an old man's home in Switzerland, in 
1897. It was at this time that the Spanish War 
showed how the development of the Red Cross 
had been neglected and Dunant began to assume 
the position he deserved in the world. Four 
years later, the Nobel Peace prize, given for the 
first time, went to him and to Frederick Passy. 
His share of that was 104,000 francs, about 
$20,000, which, with a small pension from the 



Dowager Empress of Russia, served him until he 
died in 1910. 

He, with his horrible description of Solferino, 
and Florence Nightingale and Clara Barton, 
with their vivid experiences, launched the inter- 
national Red Cross with much more to go on 
than it took advantage of for many years. Clara 
Barton even foreshadowed the industrial activities 
of the American Red Cross by helping organize 
workshops in Paris and Strassburg to save the 
women left destitute by the Franco-Prussian War. 

The report of the Sanitary Commission of the 
Civil War, which raised by voluntary subscription 
$500,000, was largely responsible for the shaj^ing 
of the original Red Cross emblem. The Sanitary 
Commission used a Greek cross surrounded by an 
oval band. But the red cross has long become 
standard throughout the world except where 
the red crescent is used. 

Attempts have been made to protect the in- 
signia from indiscriminate use. It is frequently 
abused in war for scouting purposes and non- 
combatants adopt it as a shield. There is nothing 
to prevent it. Even at catastrophes where the 
red cross serves merely as a convenience in faci- 
litating progress it is usuaUy abused. At the 
San Francisco fire after three days every automo- 
bile displayed the red cross and it came to mean 
nothing at all. As a result, those who were en- 
titled to use the red cross changed suddenly to 
the use of a piece of red flannel, and the red cross 
insignia was not honored. 

The slowness of the Red Cross movement to 
get under way, in fact, was due to the misuse of 
it. In the Franco-Prussian war it fell into dis- 
repute. Ignorance of the rules laid down by 
the Geneva Convention was largely responsible. 
Though it had been carefully laid out just how 
far the Red Cross could go without being looked 
upon as succoring the enemy, the volunteer field 
workers paid no attention. There were also 
jealousies between the various Red Cross organi- 
zations. The Red Cross got such a bad name 
among military men in that one war that volun- 
teer nursing was discouraged up to the time of 
the Spanish War. 

There is hardly any chance that there will be 
any accidental complications of this kind in the 
present war. The Red Cross may be deliberately 
used to get information or to advance supplies, 
but the volunteer organizations are so completely 



THE HAGUE COURT 



191 



in hand now that they act under the orders of the 
miUtary surgeons. The Red Cross is to the 
armies of the world now what the volunteers are 
to the regular army. It is officered by army 
surgeons and becomes a part of the army sanitary 
body. 

A dispatch dated Washington, August 6th, 
said: "Committees of the American National 
Red Cross to-day were at work on plans to rush 
aid to the sick and wounded in the European war. 
Surgeon-General William C. Braisted and a party 
went in search of a ship to carry doctors, nurses 
andhospitalsuppliesacross the Atlantic, and others 
were receiving and disbursing funds for supplies. 

"The ship will be painted white with a red cross 
on the funnels, and will sail under the Red Cross 
flag. She wDl also be under the treaties of Geneva 
and The Hague, and will be able to enter any 
harbor." 

The American Red Cross has played a leading 
part in alleviating the suffering caused by every 
kind of catastrophe, except war, during the last 
ten years. Even in war it has done its part, 



especially in Turkey, feeding and clothing the 
noncombatants when the Bulgarians made their 
spectacular dash at Constantinople. From the 
plague in Manchuria to the Triangle Building 
fire in New York, the American Red Cross met 
the emergency. But when it came to general 
European warfare, every army had worked out a 
complete Red Cross system. 

The American Red Cross did not jump directly 
into the field in Europe because there was no 
place for it. It would not fit in. It could be 
useful only as an organization handling and for- 
warding supplies. But once the armies are dis- 
organized or the initial organization is broken up 
by defeat, the American Red Cross, or any body 
of foreign nurses, could do as good work as the 
nurses of the country. 

At present, however, the Red Cross societies 
of the warring nations, with the same sympathy 
and heroism that prompted Florence Nightingale 
and Clara Barton, and with modern organization 
and effectiveness, are caring for the sick and 
wounded on the stricken fields of Europe. 



THE WORLD'S COURT OF ARBITRATION AT 

THE HAGUE 



AUSTRIA'S dispute with Servia was a 
judiciable one, a question quite within 
the proper jurisdiction of The Hague Ar- 
bitration Tribunal. The general Continental war, 
however, has not come about over a dispute, but 
because of a state of mind. Although this is not 
the sort of discussion that could be referred to a 
court of arbitration, nevertheless, in the final 
settlement of every war, the tribunal at The Hague 
is so constituted that its services may be enor- 
mously valuable in bringing about peace. A 
little about this permanent court of arbitration 
at the Dutch capital is, therefore, of permanent 
and legitimate interest in connection with the 
European war of 1914. 

Early in the year 1899, Czar Nicholas of Russia 
suggested a European conference, with the object 
of "a possible reduction of the excessive arma- 
ments which weigh upon all nations," to be effected 
by "putting a limit to the progressive develop- 
ment of the present armaments." It was not 
found practicable at the conference, which fol- 
lowed in July of that year, nor at the second one 



in 1907, to achieve anything permanent in this 
direction. Nevertheless, under an act of July 
29, 1899, signed and subsequently ratified by 
twenty-four nations, a Permanent Court of Arbi- 
tration for the Settlement of International Dis- 
putes was set up at The Hague. Thus the con- 
ference of 1899 established a permanent judicial 
system to be called into action whenever two or 
more states desired to have a dispute settled. 

The second conference, June 1907, took in a 
number of new Powers. The court is competent, 
so the agreement says, for all arbitration cases, 
"unless the parties agree to constitute a special 
tribunal." When any of the powers who have 
agreed to the arbitration system wish to enlist 
the services of the court, the arbitrators called 
upon must be chosen from the permanent mem- 
bers of the court. This permanent court consists 
of persons "of known competency on questions of 
international law." Four, at the most, are se- 
lected by the signatory powers, and each ap- 
pointment is for six years and may be renewed. 

The first convention provided for the offer of 



192 



EUROPE AT WAR 



good oflBces and mediation, the establishment 
of a permanent court with an international office 
at The Hague, and the right of inqmry by com- 
missions into disputed matters of fact. One of 
these conventions of inquiry did very excellent 
service to the world in 1904, during the Russo- 
Japanese war, when the Russian Baltic Fleet 
opened fire by mistake on some British fishing 
boats. The second conference, in 1907, discussed 
many of the problems and customs of war, in- 
cluding the application to naval warfare of the 
principles of the Geneva conference. At the 
second conference the newcomers included the 



Repubhcs of South and Central America and the 
Empire of Japan. 

The membership of the court consists of repre- 
sentatives from the United States of America, 
Argentine Republic, Austria-Hungary, Belgium, 
Bohvia, Brazil, Bulgaria, ChOe, China, Columbia, 
Cuba, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, 
France, German Empire, Great Britain, Greece, 
Guatemala, Haiti, Italy, Japan, Luxemburg, 
Mexico, Netherlands, Nicaragua, Norway, Pana- 
ma, Persia, Peru, Portugal, Roumania, Russia, 
Salvador, Servia, Siam, Spain, Sweden, Switzer- 
land, Turkey, Uruguay and Venezuela. 



THE ONLOOKING WORLD 

THE LAST OF THE WAR CORRESPONDENT 



THE degradation, nay, the elimination of 
the war correspondent is the subject of a 
vividly written article in the Contempor- 
ary Review, by Francis McCullagh, well known all 
over the world as a member of that now disap- 
pearing profession. Present events verify Mr. 
McCulIagh's prediction that correspondents may 
be allowed to write under a severe censorship 
from the capitals of the warring nations, "but 
the front they will never see again." 

In Mr. McCulIagh's opinion this changed state 
of aflairs is due partly to the invention of the tele- 
graph and other improvements in the means of 
communication, but primarily to the modern 
craze for sensation. Forbes, Kinglake, and Mac- 
Gahan wrote articles which could be republished 
with very little alteration as serious history. 
To-day, however, the demand is for "flaring sen- 
sationalism which is worthless for historical pur- 
poses." 

The public demand this sensationalism and enjoy the 
thrill which it gives them, but despise in their heart the 
people who provide the thrill, and when, in future wars, 
the thrillers are banished to a more quiet place hundreds 
of miles from the firing line, the public will say, "serves 
them right!" 

Primarily, of course, says Mr. McCullagh, the 
public themselves are to blame. 

A journalist sees a battle for a quarter of an hour, talks 
to a few officers, fugitives, military atlaches, wounded people 
and then makes off in his motor car to cable four lines of 
fact and four columns of cliches and padding. The padding 
consists of descriptions of cavalry charges which never 
took place. It tells how the enemy's guns got the range 
"with miraculous accuracy," how "our" batteries were 
silenced by those of the enemy. It presents us with all the 
stock pictures of brave men, their back to the wall, grim, 
silent, uncomplaining; men who show the world the way 
to die. Rivers run with blood. Soldiers on either side throw 
away their arms and jump at each other's throats with 
naked hands. Desperate cavalrymen, with the cry of 
" Allah-il- Allah " on their lips, charge thin brown hues of 
infantry. Wounded Turks stagger homeward followed by 
huge, sagacious vultures, which seem to have shrewdly 
calculated the moment at which the quarry will collapse. 
For eighty miles and a half "Our Own CorresfKindent" 
travels over roads littered with corpses, not ordinary, pro- 
saic corpses, but corpses stiffened in every conceivable at- 



titude of picturesque tragedy and theatrical despair. Some 
breathed out their souls to AUah while tr>'ing to assume 
the eastward position, and to pray with their faces turned 
toward Mecca. Some had evidently attempted to write 
with their own blood on the margin of a Turkish newspaper 
a last message to the dear ones at home. And so on, and so 
on. All the usual clap-trap is rammed in by the yard. 
The correspondent hates very often to indulge in this revel 
of mendacity (for it is nothing less), but the public want it. 
If he sends a true and restrained story, he finds it printed in 
small type on some obscure page, while the gory fantasies 
of some imaginative foreigner who "saw" the battle in the 
bar-room of some Sofia hotel stagger under a load of head- 
lines next the "leader" column. If he afterward tries to 
set the pubUc right, he will find that the public do not want 
to be set right. They will have forgotten all about the 
war, and have become interested in rag-time, Welsh Home 
Rule, or the Duke of Scrobia's divorce case. His voice will 
be drowned in cries of "professional jealousy," "an other- 
wise meritorious book marred by a disgraceful attack on a 
brother correspondent," etc. 

His only alternative, then, is to send a thrilling story 
himself. All he really sees at the front arc shells bursting 
at a distance of three or four miles, and, close at hand, a 
friendly battery which is firing these shells. He makes 
friend with the battery commandant, who is profane, pre- 
occupied, and quite ignorant of what is going on in other 
parts of the field. Besides, he does not speak any language 
with which the journalist is acquainted. In the night-time 
the battery suddenly moves backward, and he goes with 
it. The retreat is due to a flanking movement thirty miles 
off, but neither he nor the battery commandant knows any- 
thing of this. 

When our correspondent reaches a safe place and begins 
to write his "story" his mind is very much disturbed by 
two or three things. In the first place his paper has, so far, 
spent more than a thousand pounds on him, though there 
were several amateurs who offered to pay their own ex- 
penses. In the second place, that fool Boffins is sure to 
exaggerate as usual. This last argument is of tremendous 
importance, but to appreciate it at its full value one must 
be a journahst. The result is that the old woman lying 
drunk by the roadside becomes transformed into a pile of 
gory corpses, six feet high. The story of the tipsy attache 
goes down as if the correspondent had witnessed it himself, 
also the story told by the Greek widow, and a few columns 
of his own personal adventures, which had already befallen 
another correspondent (at least the other correspondent 
said so). The whole forms a thrilling tale with about one 
per cent, of truth in it. The sub-editor in Fleet Street in- 
dignantly knocks out the one per cent, of truth, expands 
the remainder to twice its length, and tacks on as part of the 
original a little gem of his own, a striking bit of descriptive 
stuff really paraphrased from a poem by Mrs. Hemans. 



193 



194 



EUROPE AT WAR 



This writer accuses the average correspondent 
of bad faith. Many of them, he declares, have a 
"veritable cult of trickery and a total forgetful- 
ness of all promises and all engagements whenever 
this forgetfulness gives them a chance of making 
what they themselves call a scoop." He cites 
instances of this bad faith and trickery, and then 
proceeds to point out how the photographer and 
the moving-picture man have become so objec- 
tionable to the armies of civilized nations that the 
correspondent will hereafter be banished. It is 
all again a matter of the popular craze for what 
is technically termed "hot stuff." 

The military objection to war correspondents, 
beside that arising from that of their proneness 
to "give away to the enemy," is based on their 
enormous number. Forty years ago the war 
correspondents with an army might number half 
a dozen. 

If a government prepares to declare war at present, 
it suddenly finds itself besieged by hundreds of correspon- 
dents, most of them knowing nothing about war, and some 
of them very shady chai'acters indeed. In Tokio there were 
more than one hundred correspondents at the outbreak of 
the Russo-Japanese war. In Sofia there were about one 
hundred at the outbreak of the Balkan troubles. There were 
only forty in Constantinople, but with their cooks, grooms, 
interpreters and assistants, they were so numerous that a 
special train had to take to the front them and their pro- 
visions, photographic outfits, tents, stores, cooking appa- 



ratus, horses, pack-animals, and fodder. The handling of 
such a large detachment of men necessitates the employ- 
ment of special and highly educated officers. Now, in a 
life-and-death struggle no nation will ever consent to put 
up with such a loss of officers, of time, and of trains. 

In the old style it is all over. But the press 
will be richer than ever, Mr. McCullagh believes, 
competition between newspapers wOl be keener 
than before. 

The public will be more an.\ious for information from the 
front than any public ever was in the past, for the military 
precautions taken to prevent information leaking out will 
only whet the popular appetite for news. Newspapers wiU 
consequently send secret agents to every war, and those 
secret agents may possibly be able to send out far more 
news than the recognized correspondents are able to send 
out at present. Such men would have to be sent to a likely 
theatre of war before a conflict actually broke out. In fact, 
that practice is followed to some extent even now. I my- 
self was sent to Port Arthur by an American paper six 
months before the outbreak of the Russo-Japanese war, 
and in Port Arthur I met with a secret agent of another 
paper. If, before the outbreak of the Balkan troubles, 
men had been despatched by Fleet Street, to Adrianople, 
Kirk Kilisse, and Liile Burgas, they could either have left 
those places with the other refugees and brought to Con- 
stantinople a detailed account of the fighting, or else have 
sent on their news by messengers and remained behind to 
await developments. In a European war this would prob- 
ably lead to some correspondents getting shot as spies, but 
there will always be journalists ready to face even that 
risk. 



THE SOCIALIST EXPLANATION 

BY JOSHUA WANHOPE 



WHEN, as the poet says, old Caspar's 
grand-children, playing in the sun, 
rolled something hard and round to that 
ancientpeasant's feet,Casparat once recognized it. 
" 'Tis some poor fellow's skull," said he, "who 
fell in the great victory." But when the eager 
children wanted to know more about it, the poor 
old man was halted. "What they fought each 
for, I never could make out," he replied helplessly. 

There is an enormous multitude of Caspars who 
don't know what the present war is about either. 
They will, however, die by millions for their ig- 
norance. That is the age-long penalty. The 
wages of ignorance, for the workers, is death. 

We Socialist working men and women must 
know "what it is all about." While we do not, 

*Reprinted by permission from the New York Call. 



it will be impossible for us to stop war and keep 
our skulls on our shoulders. 

This simple article proposes to give, only in 
rough outline, a fairly accurate summary of the 
war in Europe and "what it is all about." 

THE "racial conflict" HUMBUG 

You, reader, will be deluged with apparently 
learned articles in the capitalist press and maga- 
zines, informing you that it is all a matter of 
racial antagonisms; that people of different races 
cannot live quietly beside each other, and you 
will hear this trouble referred to innumerable 
times as a "great racial conflict," the final death 
grip of Slav and Teuton, with many other compli- 
cations which will only confuse you, among them 
the utterly idiotic proposition that the assassina- 



MEN WHO CONTROL THE DESTINY OF EUROPE 




KING PETER OF SERVIA AND THE CROWN PRINCE 



196 



EUROPE AT WAR 




KAISER WILLIAM II OF GERMANY 

'no great decision can any longer be taken without germany and without the german emperor* 

William's speech, july, 1900 



MEN WHO CONTROL THE DESTINY OF EUROPE 197 




THE "IRON CHANCELLOR" AND THE PRESENT GERMAN EMPEROR 




GENERAL EIELD MARSH.ALL COLJLVR BARON VON DER GOLTZ 
Germany's greatest war authority, now military governor of Belgium 



T08 



EUROPE AT WAR 




GENERAL VON INIOLTKE, CHIEF OF STAFF 

A NEPHEW OF THE FAMOUS VON MOLTKE IN COMMAND IN 187O-71 



MINISTER OF WAR, GEN- 
ERAL VON FALKENHAYN 



MEN WHO CONTROL THE DESTINY OF EUROPE 199 




EMPEROR FRANCIS JOSEPH 

A MUCH BELOVED RULER WHO HAS REIGNED O5 YEARS OVER A POLYGLOT DUAL MONARCHY WHICH MANY PEOPLE HAVE 

BELIEVED WOULD DISINTEGRATE UPON HIS DEATH 



200 



EUROPE AT WAR 




COUNT BKRCHTOLD, THIC AUSTRIAN PREMIER 

WHO PLANNED WAR AGAINST SERVIA TO SUBDUE SERB AGITATION IN HUNGARY. OTHER PICTURES: (aBOVE) COUNT VON 
HOTZENDORF, HEAD OF AUSTRIAN ARMY; (BELOW) ARCHDUKE CHARLES FRANCIS, HEIR TO THE AUSTRIAN THRONE 



MEN WHO CONTROL THE DESTINY OF EUROPE 201 




Copyright by Umierwi.iod & UnJenvood 

EMPEROR FRANCIS JOSEPH AND THE MURDERED ARCHDUKE, FR.\NCIS FERDINAND 




THE ARREST OF THE ASSASSIN IN THE STREETS OF SARAJEVO, BOSNIA 

THE ASSASSINATION WAS USED AS A CAUSE FOR WAR BY AUSTRIA 



202 



EUROPE AT WAR 




\ 



LEADERS OF FRANCE 

GENERAL JOFFRE (lEFT) SUPREME COMMANDER OF THE FRENCH ARMIES; M. DELCASSE ( UPPER; PREMIER IN iSgS, Jil£ FATHER 
OF THE ENTENTE CORDIALE WITH ENGLAND; PREMIER VIVIANI (LOWER) 



MEN WHO CONTROL THE DESTINY OF EUROPE 203 



^^^^^^^^^^^P^nT' -'vs'^. ' ''I'-'fl 






■P'' ^^ 


^^^^^^^^^^^^^^■K M^Z?^ ' S 


-^^^^H9P^^ > ' ^^^^1 




K|L i 


^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^K^^ ' 




^B 


^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^k ^^1 


^^^^^^^^^B? ■' - 






^^^^^^ 1 


^^^^^^^^HFj- ^: 






^^Bi^^„^K ^^B 


^^^^^F^^^i- '' 




t^^^^^^^i 


^^^^^HHk' ^^m 


^^^^^K/ ■'''"-".' '' 






^^^^B^'' ^B 


^^1^^^ 






Hm 








^^HlHl 


^Hy^^^^'^'^' 






^^^^^^^^^^^^^H 


■H^.i 








^^■■k ^ 


L ^ft 




^^^^t^^'o'.r ,, .-'i^'^^^l 


^^HP^K. j 






^^^^^^v^ "^ - ] 






^^^^^^^B ^^t^*?'*^l 


^^^^^■Uk-- s 






^^^^^^^t^^!£BfB^^lHH^H|^| 








HHP^ 




WW i w^ 




^^^^^r^^^?^iis& iS^fB 


^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^Bt^'- ' ' ^^^w' 


W' ^^1^ 








^sit^- ^^^^P 








H^R 


^^^^^^e' ^^^^i^^^i 


B '- ■. . ■:<!{^% 




^^^^^^^U^I^^H^HV^^^^K 








^^^^^^HHf '^-"' > ■■ 




^E' ' •-••ji-'^'i' 




^^^uiittlHiK ^ 


JJ^^^^I 


^^E '. '^' -i 




HHri 


I fl 


^^B '^*^9* * 


^^^^^HP^I^P ^^^^^1 


^^Vi 


ft A 


■ ;';^'#'- 


^^^^^^HB^^' j^^^^^^l 


^^V4 


1 fli 


B 






■ „,o^^W 


1.4 , 




■1 


^^ 


^^ri 



M. RAYMOND POINCARE, PRESIDENT OF FRANCE 

' OUR WORDS OF PEACE AND HUMANITY WILL BE ALL THE MORE LIBCELY TO BE HEEDED IF WE ARE KNOWN TO BE MORE 
DETERMINED AND BETTER ARMED " — PRESIDENT'S MESSAGE, FEB. 20, igij 



204 



EUROPE AT WAR 




SIR EDWARD GREY (LEFT) AND PREMIER ASQUITH 

THE GUIDIXG SPIRITS OF THE BRITISH CABINET IN THE WAR CRISIS. SIR EDWARD GREY HAS DIRECTED ENGLAND'S 
FOREIGN POLICY FOR THE LAST NINE YEARS. MR. ASQUITH, PRIME MINISTER, AND FOR A TIME WAR SECRETARY 



MEN WHO CONTROL THE DESTINY OF EUROPE 205 




EARL KITCHENER, OF KHARTOUM (LEFT), AND SIR JOHN D. P. FRENCH 

EARL KITCHENER IS GENERALLY CONSIDERED THE ABLEST ACTIVE SOLDIER IN GREAT BRITAIN. SIR JOHN D. P. FRENCH 
WHO WAS ONE OF THE FEW ENGLISH OFFICERS WHO GAINED DISTINCTION IN SOUTH AFRICA 



2o6 



EUROPE AT WAR 



^ 


^ 


mil 


i 




|M^ 





THE DIRECTORS OF ENGLAND'S DESTINY AT SEA c.„riBi,.Ly A,„eri.a„ vress Ass„daiiu„ 

SIR JOHN R, JELLICOE (uPPER LEFT), IN COMMAND OF ALL THE FLEETS; SIR GEORGE CALLAGHAN (rIGHT), COMMANDING IHE 
NORTH SEA FLEET: FIRST LORD OF THE ADMIRALTY WINSTON CHURCHILL (LOWER LEFT) 



M 



EN WHO CONTROL THE DESTINY OF EUROPE 207 




AN UNNATURAL ALLIANCE -THE CZAR AND KING GEORGE V 

RULERS WITH A LONG-STANDING COLONIAL RIVALRY AND OPPOSING POLITICAL BELIEFS; AUTOCRAT AND C'-JNSTITUnONAL 
MONARCH, DRAWN TOGETHER, BY THE KAISER 'S AMBITIONS IN THE NEAR EAST AND ON THE OCEAN 



2o8 



EUROPE AT WAR 




THE RUSSL\N MINISTER OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS, M. SAZONOFF, AND (ON THE RIGHT) THE RUSSIAN 

AMBASSADOR TO GERMANY 




GR.^ND DUKE NIKOLAS NIKOLAIVTTCH 

COMMANDER AT ST. PETERSBURG, AND, WITH GENERAL SUKHOMLINOFF, CHIEFLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE PRESENT STATUS 

OF THE RUSSIAN ARMY 



MEN WHO CONTROL THE DESTINY OF EUROPE 209 









^H 


HB^ ^^1 






M 




^^^H^^ttiHflBI 




^B^ 






K^^QOH^K^ 


» 








^^r '^- 






f^S^^m 


f i 








i 
/• 



GEXER.\L SUKHOMLINOFF 

THE EfSSIAN MIXISTEE OF WAR 




THE CZAR AND PRESIDENT POINCARE 

ON HIS VISIT TO RUSSIA IN JUI.V FROM WHICH HE HURRIEDLY RETURNED JUST BEFORE HOSTILITIES BEGAN 



2IO 



EUROPE AT WAR 





^<r 


^ 


^ 




J 




^ 




^1 




% f^^^m 




mK 


^^^^H 




1 




^9 




--. '^^^^. 


y^jlf 


\' 





ALBERT OF BELGIUM, THE KIXG OF "THE COCKPIT OF EUROPE" 





THE .MARQUIS OF SAN GIULIANO AND VICTOR EMMANUEL III. 

THE MIXISTER Of FOREIGN AFFAIRS AND THE KING WHO REFUSED TO PLUNGE ITALY INTO THE WAR STARTED BY ITS ANCIENT 

EN'EMY AND PRESENT ALLY, AUSTRIA 



THE SOCIALIST VIEW 



211 



tion of a royal Austrian puppet was the direct 
cause of the war. 

And these things are lies, though apparent 
truths. The racial differences of the peoples 
engaged are not the cause of hostilities. Their 
existence, however is the field, the pretext, imder 
which infinitely more sinister forces carry on their 
hellish work. 

But in spite of this, these racial features must 
be taken into account. Though they are not 
the underlying cause, the question cannot be 
considered without noting them. 

Europe contains some 400,000,000 people, of 
whom the two great racial groups, Slavs and 
Teutons, roughly speaking, form somewhat more 
than half. They are fairly equally divided, say 
100,000,000 on each side, though perhaps the 
Slavs shghtly preponderate. 

Another important part of the population is 
made up of the so-called Latin nations, probably 
100,000,000 more altogether, France, Italy, Spain, 
Portugal, etc. 

The remainder is formed of the British and 
Scandinavian peoples, who may be largely Teu- 
tonic in stock perhaps, but with a large dash of 
Celtic, and some 40,000,000 others scattered 
throughout Europe who are neither Slav nor 
Teuton, such as Jews, Turks, Greeks, Rouman- 
ians, Hungarians, and others. 

MOST OF TEUTONS IN GERMANY 

Some 85,000,000 of the Teutons are concen- 
trated in the two countries of Germany and Aus- 
tria, particularly the former. 

The great bulk of the Slavs are in Russia, 
though Servia, Bulgaria, and Montenegro are 
Slavic States, many other Slavs being scattered 
through the Balkan regions. 

The population of Servia is some 3,000,000; 
of Bulgaria, 4,500,000 — terribly weakened by 
the late war — and of Montenegro, 500,000. Rou- 
mania, the other Balkan State not Slavic con- 
tains more than 7,000,000 people. 

Austria, which is not a country in the sense of 
being the centre of one predominant racial group, 
is the most mixed of all European racial commu- 
nities. 

In the dual monarchy of Austria-Hungary 
there are some 12,000,000 Germans (Teutonic). 
Of the remaining 38,000,000 there are 10,000,000 
Magyars (Hungarians), and 3,000,000 Rouman- 



ians, neither of whom are Slavs. The remaining 
25,000,000 are mostly Slavic peoples, Bohe- 
mians, Moravians, Ruthenians, Slovaks, Servians, 
etc. 

It will be seen, therefore, that Austria is merely 
a "geographical expression." All the European 
political sharps for the last two generations used 
to speculate how long this heterogeneous collec- 
tion could hold together, and all generally pre- 
dicted a European cataclysm accompanying its 
dissolution, and a rearrangement of the map of 
Europe; 

IS IT A RACIAL FIGHT PURELY? 

These two great groups form the fighting forces 
immediately involved. Why shall they fight? 
What is it all about? We said the real, under- 
lying cause was not racial, that there was some- 
thing else behind it. And there is. 

And it is this: The mastership and domina- 
tion of the world commercially; in the last analysis 
a fight for expansion, for more feeding ground, 
for markets. 

The real force behind the trouble is European 
capitalism, divided into two warring groups for 
ultimate world supremacy, for mastership and 
exploitation. 

The real power is found in the great banks, 
counting-houses and financial establishments of 
Europe. They in turn dominate the nations 
financially, and the great industrial corporations 
— big business. For years it has been stated 
that they, in the last resort, were the arbiters of 
war, they could command or prevent it. That is 
true, but it will not be repeated so much now. 
These powers hide behind the swaggering kings 
and kaisers and potentates who are their mouth- 
pieces and are now emitting heroic platitudes 
about drawing their swords and preserving their 
honor. These figures, with their personal atten- 
dance of military and diplomatic liars, are in 
this respect at least mere phantasmagoria. They 
are counseled by their "advisers," and these 
advisers, the statesmen, are in turn dominated 
by the great financial interests aforesaid. The 
common people are the pawns with which they 
play the game, and their racial diSerences 
form the main pretext on which they are 
"sicked" onto each other like fighting dogs. 
Where racial pretexts fail, others are always 
manufactured. 



212 



EUROPE AT WAR 



MR. MONEYBAGS IN THE GAME 

The Jewish banker is a tremendous factor in 
this situation. If the Rothschilds and Bleich- 
roders, the Montefiores and Hirschs have any 
racial feeUng left, they may certainly chuckle to 
themselves over setting millions of "Christians" 
to cutting each other's throats. It is in a way, 
perhaps, a sort of compensation for the innumer- 
able slaughters of their race that Gentiles have 
made in all ages. 

But it should be remembered that if economic 
evolution has made the Jew the financial master 
of Europe, at the same time his wonderful race 
has produced the most powerful, intellectual, and 
determined revolutionaries the world has even 
known. If the race gave us Rothschild it also 
gave us Marx. 

But what is the great prize sought? 

It is the imperial and commercial conquest of 
Asia. This is the thing that has always been held 
behind the "Eastern Question," which, with the 
elimination of the Turk as a factor, has now 
evolved into a world question. What now hap- 
pens in Europe is in fact the same thing that set 
the nations almost by the ears in the recent 
Japanese-Russian contest. And it may be no- 
ticed that Japan has allied herself with England 
in this crisis. 

For hundreds of years Teuton and Slav have 
been converging on the European littoral of 
Turkey. Whoever possesses it controls Asia, to 
the exclusion of all rivals, and has a path to every 
Asiatic country that no fleets can stop. 

Germany's expansion 

German private capital has already built rail- 
roads through Asia Minor to Bagdad and else- 
where, and the German Kaiser has posed for years 
as the champion of Christendom in the "Holy 
Land." The Russian Slav has continually bent 
his steps in the same direction as a settled policy. 
The Russian ruling class have set up as indepen- 
dent Slavic States several of the Balkan peoples, 
with the deliberate purpose of making the path 
to Asia easier. What little now remains of the 
Turkish power can be swept out of Europe with 
ridiculous ease, while its power in Asia can be 
broken, penetrated or pushed aside by the con- 
querors. Poor, battered Turkey thinks of enter- 
in" the melee on the side of Germanv, evidentlv 



in the hope of winning back from England her 
power in Egypt, and from Russia the Caucasus. 

There is not room for the two groups, while both 
are dominated by capitalism and respond to the 
call of their economic masters, under the delusion 
that they arepreservingracialandnational integrity 
and answering the treacherous call of "patriotism." 

There are 70,000,000 Teutons in Germany on 
some 210,000 square rrules of land. Their finan- 
cial and industrial masters must have expansion, 
more markets, more peoples to exploit. To the 
seaward they are halted by the mighty naval 
power of England; to the westward they come in 
collision with France, and to the south and south- 
east with the Slav races. They make common 
cause with the German element in Austria, which 
has always been the ruling class there, and both 
Slav and Teuton now meet in the narrow Euro- 
pean strip, the straight pathway to Asia. 

WHY STOP AT THE MEDITERRANEAN? 

Foolish or misguided scribes tell us that the 
conflict is for the control of the Mediterranean, 
but they don't say what the control of the Medi- 
terranean is desired for. They leave the impres- 
sion that the conquerors merely want to pom- 
pously parade their warships there. The real 
fact is that the Mediterranean is the water gate 
of Europe to Asia, and those who secure the land 
gate secure both. It is imperative that they must. 

But this is what brings capitalist England into 
the fray. The passing of the Mediterranean 
from her control and that of her allies means the 
threatening of her great Asiatic empire and the 
destruction of her trade and commerce by one 
or other of the conflicting groups. She figures it 
out that if there is an alternative, she chooses to 
back Russia, as at present she fears less what the 
Slav may do than she does the Teuton. She may 
reconsider this opinion, and may be trusted to 
back out of the conflict if she possibly can. She 
is not keen for fighting, because she has all she 
can handle already. The others have not, hence 
they are determined to have it, by war if necessary. 
It is the old case of Have-Not against Have. 
Either Teuton or Slav would strip the British 
capitalist in Asia with equal alacrity. 

FRENCH MUST PROTECT RUSSIAN LOANS 

What brings France in? Two main reasons. 
One financial, the other racial and national. The 



THE SOCIALIST VIEW 



21 • 



great Russian national debt is held very largely 
in France. Hundreds of thousands of thrifty 
French peasants and little bourgeoisie have emp- 
tied their stockings to raise the continuous Rus- 
sian loans. If the Slav goes down in the conflict, 
they may whistle for their money. So they range 
themselves alongside him. 

The other reason is the hatred of Germany and 
the desire to reconquer Alsace-Lorraine, lost in 
1870. "Revanche" has always been a popular 
cry in France to rally up the Caspars who other- 
wise don't know what it is all about. So with 
both pretexts as incentives to the fray, the French 
ruling class calls for instant mobilization and 
threatens Germany with invasion, if she moves 
against Russia. 

And Belgium mobilizes also. Why? Simply 
because the ruling class there could foresee from 
previous experience that France or Germany 
would have no scruple whatever in making their 
little country the cockpit in which to slaughter 
each other. It's always less costly to go over on 
your neighbor's garden plot to have it out, when 
you think he isn't able to dispute your choice of 
it as a battleground. So Belgium mobilizes and 
the other little countries like Holland and Den- 
mark also prepare. As a matter of fact, their 
independence is about on the same status as 
Cuba's. They are only independent because the 
bigger fellows guarantee them — against each 
other. And those guarantees are scattered to 
the winds by the present crisis. 

WHAT FACTORS ARE FOR PEACE? 

Now what are the factors for peace, and what 
chance have they of being effective? 

Here is the great Roman Church. There has 
been a piteous whisper from the Vatican to the 
old Austrian dotard, Francis Joseph, not to shed 
blood in his old age. Not the slightest notice has 
been taken of it and the poor old Pope has died 
grieving at the decay of the Papacy's temporal 
power. The Roman Church is supposedly deep 
in the political councils of many nations, especially 
Catholic ones like Austria, but at this crisis it is 
utterly impotent. It has many times smoothed 
over racial antagonisms in the past, and perhaps 
could once have commanded war to cease, but 
economic determinism, that economic deter- 
minism it hates and denies, is now too strong. 
Its protests go unheeded, though one third of the 



population of Europe apparently submits to it 
spiritually, as it is called. And as a matter of 
fact, all other forms of the religion of Jesus Christ 
who came to bring peace on earth are equally 
impotent. 

The Hague Conference? Nothing doing there. 
Not a murmur is heard from the "thieves' kitchen." 
The thieves are all too busy patriotically "sup- 
porting" their respective governments. 

What is the great United States of America 
doing? Nothing except to proclaim her neutrality. 
And it may not be able to keep that, for the in- 
terests of American capitalists are also bound up 
with commercial supremacy in the Asiatic mar- 
kets. When Japan steps in, it is idle to say that 
capitalist interests here are unaffected. We may, 
probably will, preserve peace in our own midst, 
but though we are supposedly the greatest force 
for peace in the world, we can do nothing with 
this European hell-blast, except to proclaim that 
we want to stay out of it. 

And lastly we come to the great Socialist move- 
ment of Europe and the peoples composing it. 
What can it do? No one knows as yet. 

It has not succeeded in stopping the war. But 
while war is scourging the peoples, it will strain 
every effort to overthrow, by social revolution, 
the hideous capitalist power that engenders and 
hopes to profit by it. 

WAR IS, AFTER ALL — WAR 

For, boiled down to the last analysis, this war 
has no other purpose than those which preceded 
it; the mastership of man over his fellow; the 
enslavement and exploitation of peoples, so that 
some may continue to live on the labor of others. 
It is the same purpose with all, whether they mask 
their ex-ploitation under the guise of democracy, 
like France and England, or under cover of im- 
perial bureaucracy as in Russia and Germany. 
Whether the tribute is extracted by direct ta.xa- 
tion or the more cunning and insidious methods 
of modern capitalism makes no difference. It is 
essentially the same thing and for the same pur- 
pose. 

And this, again in the last analysis, is "what 
it is all about." Despite the humbug of the mys- 
tery of "politics from the inside," the utterances 
of sophisticated statesmen and politicians, the 
swagger and bluster of royal puppets and uni- 
formed windbags, and the published opinions of 



214 



EUROPE AT WAR 



bankers, and of financial and military experts, it 
is nothing more than this: The continuance and 
expansion of human slavery through profit, the 
maintenance of capitalism, even if the world is 
to be strewed with the corpses of its murdered 
slaves. 

This, we repeat, is what it is all about and why 
Socialists want to put an end to it. War is hell, 
and capitalism is the cause of war, and you can 
figure out for yourself what capitalism itself must 
be. 

HOW THE UNITED STATES IS CONCERNED 

On this side of the Atlantic, we, the workers, 
will not remain unaffected, even if "the country" 
keeps out of the European maelstrom. Some of 
our exploiters are figuring on an immediate gain 
by it and some on an ultimate loss. But that is 
of no consequence to us. They all, however, 
figure on a much higher cost of food and necessi- 
ties of life and that means to us hunger, an ever 



fiercer strife for a living; strikes, labor wars, riots 
and murders like Ludlow, Calumet, and West 
Virginia, multiphed a thousand fold. Many a 
poor Caspar among us, who doesn't know what 
it is all about, will have his skull rolled on the 
strike fields of the United States as literally as if 
he had been separated from it in the Balkans. 

This is but a rough, crude, faulty, and inade- 
quate outline, or attempted outline to show 
"what it is all about." And though a thousand 
other details and important ones, too, could be 
introduced, we have striven to give only the 
main causes and considerations. To know how 
to put an end to this hideous condition, we must 
know its causes. For those who do not know, 
and do not care to know, they pay for ignorance 
with their skulls. 

If you don't want to use your heads. Capital- 
ism can always find a use for them, in this fashion. 
And in the last resort that is what makes a Euro- 
pean war possible now. 



THE DOCUMENTS IN THE CASE 

THE BRITISH "WHITE PAPER" 

THE following is a somewhat abridged text of the British "White Paper" — the oflficial 
diplomatic correspondence that immediately preceded England's declaration of war against 
Germany. It was first issued by the British Foreign OflSce on August 5th, 1914, and was 
published in the New York Times in full on August 23rd. The correspondence, mostly telegraphic, 
deals with the crisis produced by the Austro-Hungarian note sent to Servia on July 23rd and the 
subsequent invasion of Servia by the forces of Austria-Hungary. 

The "White Paper" contains 159 documents, besides enclosures, and comprises more than 40,000 
words. 
The leading characters in this grim diplomatic drama are as follows. 



Sir Edward Grey, British Foreign Secretary. 

Count Benckendorff, Russian Ambassador at London. 

Count Berchtold, Austrian Foreign Minister. 

Snt F. Bertie, British Ambassador at Paris. 

Sir G. Buchanan, British Ambassador at St. Peters- 
burg. 

Sir M. de Bunsen, British Ambassador at Vienna. 

M. Jules Cambon, French Ambassador to Germany. 

M. Paul Casmbon, French Ambassador to England. 

Mr. Dayrell Montagite Crackanthorpe, First Secre- 
tary in British Diplomatic Service at Belgrade. 

Sir E. Goschen, British Ambassador at Berlin. 



Prince Lichnowsky, German Ambassador to Great 
Britain. 

Count Mensdorff, Austrian Ambassador to Great 
Britain. 

Sir Arthur Nicolson, Under Secretary for Foreign 
Affairs. 

Sir R. Rodd, British Ambassador at Rome. 

Sir H. Rumbold, of the British DiplomaUc Service. 

Marquis di San Giuliano, Foreign Minister of Italy. 

M. Sazonof, Russian Premier. 

Sir F. Villiers, British Envoy Extraordinary and 
Minister Plenipotentiary to Belgium. 

M. VrviANi, Premier of France. 



TEXT OF THE "WHITE PAPER' 



No. I 



Sir Edward Grey to Sir E. Goschen 

London, Foreign Office, 
July 20, 1914. 

I asked the German Ambassador to-day if he had any 
news of what was going on in Vienna, with regard to 
Servia. 

He said that he had not, but Austria was certainly 
going to take some step, and he regarded the situation as 
very uncomfortable. . . . 

The German Ambassador said that it would be a very 
desirable thing if Russia could act as a mediator with re- 
gard to Ser\'ia. 

I said that I assumed that the Austrian Government 
would not do anything until they had first disclosed to 
the pubhc their case against Servia, founded presumably 
upon what they had discovered at the trial. 

The Ambassador said that he certainly assumed that 
they would act upon some case that would be made known. 

I said that this would make it easier for others, such as 
Russia, to counsel moderation in Belgrade. . . . 

No. 2 
Snt E. GoscHEN to Sir Edward Grey 

Berlin, July 22, 1914. 
Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs . . . insisted 
that question at issue was one for settlement between Ser- 
via and Austria alone, and that there should be no inter- 
ference from outside in the discussions between those two 
countries. He had, therefore, considered it inadvisable that 
the Austro-Hungarian Government should be approached 
by the German Government on the matter. . . . 



No. 3 
Sir Edward Grey to Sir M. de Bunsen 
London, Foreign Office, 
July 23, 1914. 

Count Mensdorff told me to-day that he would be able 
to-morrow morning to let me have officially the communi- 
cation that he understood was being made to Servia to- 
day by Austria. He then explained privately what the 
nature of the demand would be. . . . 

. . . I gathered that they would include proof of the 
complicity of some Servian officials in the plot to murder 
the Archduke Franz Ferdinand, and a long list of demands 
consequently made by Austria on Servia. . . . 

But, when Count Mensdorff told me that he supposed 
there would be something in the nature of a time Umit, 
which was in effect akin to an ultimatum, I said that I re- 
gretted this very much. To begin with, a time limit might 
inflame opinion in Russia, and it would make it difficult, 
if not impossible, to give more time, even if after a few days 
it appeared that by giving more time there would be a 
prospect of securing a peaceful settlement and getting a 
satisfactory reply from Servia. . . . 

Count Mensdorff said that if Servia, in the interval that 
had elapsed since the murder of the Archduke, had volun- 
tarily instituted an inquiry on her own territory, all this 
might have been avoided. . . . 

. . . I could not help dwelling upon the awful con- 
sequences involved in the situation. . . . If as many 
as four Great Powers of Europe — let us say Austria, 
France, Russia, and Germany — were engaged in war, it 
seemed to me that it must involve the expenditure of so 
vast a sum of money and such an interference with trade 



21S 



2l6 



EUROPE AT WAR 



that a war would be accompanied or followed by a com- 
plete collapse of European credit and industry. . . . 

Count Mensdorff did not demur to this statement of 
the possible consequences of the present situation, but he 
said that all would depend upon Russia. . . . 

No. 4 
Count Berchtold to Count Mensdorff 
(Communicated by Count Mensdorflt, 

Vienna, July 24, 1914.) 

The Austro-Hungarian Government felt compelled to 
address the following note to the Servian Government on 
the 23rd July, through the medium of the Austro-Hunga- 
rian Minister at Belgrade: 

"On the 31st March, iQog, the Servian Minister in 
Vienna, on the instructions of the Servian Government, 
made the following declaration to the Imperial and Royal 
Government : 

" 'Servia recognizes that the Jail accompli regarding 
Bosnia has not aflected her rights, and consequently she 
will conform to the decisions that the Powers may take 
in conformity with Article 25 of the Treaty of Berlin. In 
deference to the advice of the Great Powers Servia under- 
takes to renounce from now onward the attitude of protest 
and opposition which she has adopted with regard to the 
annexation since last Autumn. She undertakes, moreover, 
to modify the direction of her policy with regard to Austria- 
Hungary and to live in future on good neighborly terms 
with the latter.' " 

[The note goes on to refer to the royal tragedy 
of June 28th and accuses the Servian government 
of tolerating an anti-Austrian propaganda among 
the Servians leading directly to deeds of violence 
and hostility. It accuses Servian officers and 
the Narodna Odbrana society of complicity in 
international crime.] 

The above mentioned results of the Magisterial inves- 
tigation do not permit the Austro-Hungarian Government 
to pursue any longer the attitude of e.xpectant forbearance 
which it has maintained for years in face of the machina- 
tions hatched in Belgrade, and thence propagated in the 
territories of the monarchy. The results, on the contrary, 
impose on it the duty of putting an end to the intrigues 
which form a perpetual menace to the tranquillity of the 
monarchy. 

To achieve this end the Imperial and Royal Government 
sees itself compelled to demand from the Royal Servian 
Government a formal assurance that it condemns this dan- 
gerous propaganda against the monarchy. . . . 

In order to give a formal character to this undertaking 
the Royal Servian Government shall publish on the front 
page of its Official Journal of the 26th June (13th July) 
the following declaration: 

[The required statement included an official 
condemnation of anti-Austrian propaganda and 
an order on all officials and citizens to refrain from 
further agitation.] 

This declaration shall simultaneously be communicated 
to the royal army as an order of the day by His Majesty 
the King, and shall be published in the Official Bulletin 
of the army. 

[The Royal Servian Government was required 
further to undertake: (i) To suppress anti- 
Austrian publications; (2) to dissolve the Narod- 
na Odhr ma and other anti-Austrian societies; 



(3) to eliminate from public instruction all prop- 
aganda against Austria-Hungary; (4) to remove 
all military and civil officials guilty of this propa- 
ganda, on demand of the Austro-Hungarian 
Government; (5) to accept the collaboration in 
Servia of Austro-Himgarian representatives in 
suppressing this movement; (6) to permit Austro- 
Himgarian delegates to take part in proceedings 
against accessories to the plot of June 28th; (7) 
to arrest Major Voija Tankositch and Milan 
Ciganovitch; (8) to prevent the passage of arms 
and explosives across the border and to pimish 
those who had been engaged in this traffic; (9) 
to furnish satisfactory explanations of the reported 
inflammatory utterances of Servian officials; (10) 
to notify the Austro-Hungarian Government at 
once of the execution of these measures.] 

The Austro-Hungarian Government expects the reply 
of the Royal Government at the latest by 6 o'clock on 
Saturday evening, the 25th July. . . . 

I have the honor to request Your Excellency to bring the 
contents of this note to the knowledge of the Goverimient 
to which you are accredited, accompanying your communi- 
cation with the following observations: 

[The note offers further accusations of anti- 
Austrian activities in Servia, violating agreements 
entered into March 31st, 1909.] 

In the presence of these doings, to which Austria-Hungary 
has been e.xposed for years, the Servian Government has 
not thought it incumbent on it to take the slightest step. 
The Servian Government has thus failed in the duty im- 
posed on it by the solemn declaration of the 31st March, 
1909, and acted in opposition to the will of Europe and the 
undertaking given to Austria-Hungary. 

[Attention is called to Austro-Hungary's bene- 
volence toward Servia, and its patience, which 
became exhausted on the day of the royal murder.] 

In the presence of this state of things the Imperial and 
Royal Government has felt compelled to take new and ur- 
gent steps at Belgrade with a view to inducing the Servian 
Government to stop the incendiary movement that is 
threatening the security and integrity of the Austro- 
Hungarian Monarchy. 

The Imperial and Royal Government is convinced that 
in taking this step it wiU find itself in full agreement with 
the sentiments of all civilized nations, who cannot permit 
regicide to become a weapon that can be employed with 
impunity in poUtical strife, and the peace of Europe to be 
continually disturbed by movements emanating from 
Belgrade. 

In support of the above the Imperial and Royal Gov- 
ernment holds at the disposal of the British Government 
a dossier elucidating the Servian intrigues and the con- 
nection between these intrigues and the murder of the 
28th June. 

An identical communication has been addressed to the 
imperial and royal representatives accredited to the other 
signatory powers. . . . 

[A memorandum was enclosed, giving the 
specific findings of the Court of Inquiry held at 



BRITISH "WHITE PAPER" 



217 



Serajevo against Gavrilo Princip and his access- 
ories in the crime of June 28th.] 

No. 5 
Sir Edward Grey to M. Sir de Bunsen 

London, Foreign Office, 

July 24, 1914. 

Note addressed to Servia, together with an explanation 
of the reasons leading up to it, has been communicated 
to me by Count Mensdorff. 

In the ensuing conversation with His Excellency, I 
remarked that it seemed to me a matter for great regret 
that a time limit, and such a short one at that, had been 
insisted upon at this stage of the proceedings. The murder 
of the Archduke and some of the circumstances respecting 
Servia quoted in the note aroused sympathy with Austria, 
as was but natural, but at the same time I had never 
before seen one State address to another independent State 
a document of so formidable a character. Demand No. 5 
would be hardly consistent with the maintenance of Ser- 
via's independent sovereignty if it were to mean, as it 
seemed that it might, that Austria-Hungary was to be 
invested with a right to appoint officials who would have 
authority within the frontiers of Servia. 

I added that I felt great apprehension, and that I should 
concern myself with the matter simply and solely from the 
point of view of the peace of Europe. The merits of the 
dispute between Austria and Servia were not the concern 
of His Majesty's Government, and such comments as I had 
made above were not made in order to discuss those 
merits. 

I ended by saying that doubtless we should enter into 
an e.xchange of views with other powers, and that I must 
await their views as to what could be done to mitigate the 
difficulties of the situation. 

Count Mensdorff repUed that the present situation 
might never have arisen if Servia had held out a hand 
after the murder of the Archduke; Servia had, however, 
shown no sign of sympathy or help, though some weeks 
had already elapsed since the murder; a time limit, said 
His Excellency, was essential, owing to the procrastination 
on Servia's part. . . . 

No. 6 
Sir G. Buchanan to Sir Edward Grey 

St. Petersburg, July 24, 1914. 

I had a telephone message this morning from Mr. Sazo- 
nof to the effect that the text of the .\ustrian ultimatum 
had just reached him. . . . 

Minister for Foreign .\ffairs said that Austria's conduct 
was both provocative and immoral ; she would never have 
taken such action unless Germany had first been consulted; 
some of her demands were quite impossible of acceptance. 
He hoped that His Majesty's Government would not fail 
to proclaim their solidarity with Russia and France. 

The French .Embassador gave me to understand that 
France would fulfill all the obligations entailed by her 
alliance with Russia, if necessity arose, besides supporting 
Russia strongly in any diplomatic negotiations. 

I said that I would telegraph a full report to you of what 
their Excellencies had just said to me. I could not, of 
course, speak in the name of His Majesty's Government, 
but personally I saw no reason to expect any declaration 
of solidarity from His Majesty's Government that would 
entail an unconditional engagement on their part to sup- 
port Russia and France by force of arms. Direct British 
interests in Servia were nil, and a war on behalf of that 
country would never be sanctioned by British public 
opinion. . . ' 

M. Sazonof said that he himself thought that Russian 
mobilization would at any rate have to be carried out . . . . 

I said that it seemed to me that the important point 
was to induce Austria to extend the time limit, and that 
the first thing to do was to bring an influence to bear on 



Austria with that end in view; French Ambassador, how- 
ever, . . . did not think there was dme to carry out 
my suggestion. Thereupon I said that it seemed to me 
desirable that we should know just how far Servia was 
prepared to go to meet the demands formulated by .'Austria 
in her note. . . . 

[M. Sazonof urged that a definite British stand 
would make for peace, but the British Ambassador 
did not commit himself.] 

No. 7 

Sir M. de Bijnsen to Sir Edward Grey 

Vienna, July 24, 1914. 
Before departing on leave of absence, I was assured by 
Russian Ambassador that any action taken by Austria to 
humiliate Servia]couldlnot|leave Russia^indilierent. . . . 

[He reported that Russian Charge d 'Affaires 
considered the Austrian demands impossible of 
acceptance by Servia. The Austrian Minister for 
Foreign Affairs replied that they were no more 
than would have been required by any Power.] 

No. 8 
Mr. Crackanthorpe to Sir Edward Grey 

Belgrade, July 24, 1914. 
Austrian demands are considered absolutely unaccept- 
able by Servian Government, who earnestly trust that 
His Majesty's Government may see their way to induce 
Austrian Government to moderate them. . . . 

No. 9 
Note CoinrtrNicATED by German Ambassador 
London, July 24, 1914. 

[The note reviews the conditions leading up to 
the crime of June 28th, referring to the "Great 
Servian chauvinism." It asserts that "The 
Servian intrigues have been going on for many 
years," and that "It was only owing to the far- 
reaching self-restraint and moderation of the 
Austro-Hungarian Government" that a conflict 
had been avoided. It accuses Servia of bad faith 
and upholds the action of the Dual Monarchy. 
Austria has no choice but to enforce her demands.] 

. . . The Imperial Government want to emphasize 
their opinion that in the present case there is only question 
of a matter to be settled exclusively between Austria- 
Hungary and Servia, and that the great powers ought 
seriously to endeavor to reserve it to those two immediately 
concerned. The Imperial Government desire urgently 
the localization of the conflict, because every interference 
of another Power would, owing to the different treaty 
obligations, be followed by incalculable consequences. 

No. lo 
Sir Edward Grey to Sir F. Bertie 

London, Foreign Office, 
July 24, 1914. 
. . . I told M. Cambon that this afternoon I was to 
see the German .Ambassador, who some days ago had 
asked me privately] to exercise moderating influence in 
St. Petersburg. I would say to the Ambassador that, 
of course, if the presentation of this ultimatum to Servia 



2l8 



EUROPE AT WAR 



did not lead to trouble between Austria and Russia, we 
need not concern ourselves about it; but if Russia took 
the view of the Austrian ultimatum, which it seemed to 
me that any power interested in Servia would take, I should 
be quite powerless, in face of the terms of the ultimatum, 
to exercise any moderating influence. I would say that I 
thought the only chance of any mediating or moderating 
influence being exercised was that Germanj', France, Italy, 
and ourselves, who had not direct interests in Servia, 
should act together for the sake of peace, simultaneously 
in Vienna and St. Petersburg. 

M. Cambon said that, if there was a chance of mediation 
by the four powers, he had no doubt that his Government 
would be glad to join in it; but he pointed out that we 
could not say anything in St. Petersburg till Russia had 
expressed some opinion or taken some acrion. But, when 
two days were over, Austria would march into Servia, 
for the Servians could not possibly accept the Austrian 
demand. Russia would be compelled by her public opinion 
to take action as soon as Austria attacked Servia, and there- 
fore, once the Austrians had attacked Servia, it would be 
too late for any mediation. 

I said that I had not contemplated anything being said 
in St. Petersburg until after it was clear that there must 
be trouble between Austria and Russia. I had thought 
that if Austria did move into Servia, and Russia then 
mobilized, it would be possible] for the four powers to urge 
Austria to stop her advance, and Russia also to stop hers, 
pending mediation. But it would be essenrial for any 
chance of success for such a step that Germany should 
participate in it. 

M. Cambon said that it would be too late after Austria 
had once moved against Servia. The important thing 
was to gain time by mediation in Vienna. The best chance 
of this being accepted would be that Germany should pro- 
pose it to the other Powers. . . . 

No. II 
Sir Edward Grey to Sir H. Rumbold 
London, Foreign Office, 

July 24, 1914. 

German Ambassador has communicated to me the view 
of the German Government about the Austrian demand in 
Servia. . . . 

I said that if the Austrian ultimatum to Servia did not 
lead to trouble between Austria and Russia, I had no con- 
cern with it. ... I reminded the German Ambassador 
that some days ago he had expressed a personal hope that 
if need arose I would endeavor to exercise moderating in- 
fluence at St. Petersburg, but now I said that, in view of 
the extraordinarily stiff character of the Austrian note, 
the shortness of the time allowed, and the wide scope of the 
demands upon Servia, I felt quite helpless as far as Russia 
was concerned, and I did not believe any power could ex- 
ercise influence alone. 

The only chance I could see of mediating or moderating 
influence being effecdve, was that the four powers, Ger- 
many, Italy, France, and ourselves, should work together 
simultaneously at Vienna and St. Petersburg in favor of 
moderadon in the event of the relations between Austria 
and Russia becoming threatening. 

The immediate danger was that in a few hours Austria 
might march into Servia and Russian Slav opinion demand 
that Russia should march to help Servia; it would be very 
desirable to get Austria not to precipitate military action 
and so to gain more time. But none of us could influence 
Austria in this direction unless Germany would propose 
and participate in such acrion at Vienna. . . . 

No. 12 
Sir Edward Grey to Mr. Crackanthorpe 
London, Foreign Office, 

July 24, 1914. 
Servia ought to promise that, if it is proved that Servian 
ofl5cials, however subordinate they may be, were accom- 



plices in murder of the Archduke at Serajevo, she will 
give Austria the fullest satisfaction. She certainly ought 
to express concern and regret. For the rest, Servian Gov- 
ernment must reply to Austrian demands as they consider 
best in Servian interests. 

It is impossible to say whether military action by Austria 
when time limit expires can be averted by anything 
but imconditional acceptance of her demands, but only 
chance appears to lie in avoiding an absolute refusal and 
replying favorably to as many points as the time limit 
allows. . . . 

No. 13 
Note Communicated by Russian Ambassador, July 25 

[A telegram is quoted, sent by M. Sazonof to 

the Russian Charge d 'Affaires at Vienna on July 

24th, urging the extension of the time limit set tc 

Servia's reply, in order that the Powers might 

have proper opportunity to review the case.] 

A refusal to prolong the term of the ultimatum would 
render nugatory the proposals made by the Austro- 
Hungarian Government to the Powers, and would be in 
contradiction to the very bases of intemarional relations. 

M. Sazanof hopes that His Britannic Majesty's Govern- 
ment will share to the point of view set forth above, and he 
trusts that Sir E. Grey will see his way to furnish similar 
instructions to the British Ambassador at Vienna. 

No. 14 
Sir Edward Grey to Sir F. Bertie and to Sir G. 
Buchanan 

London, Foreign OflSce, 
July 25, 1914. 
Austrian Ambassador has been authorized to explain 
to me that the step taken at Belgrade was not an ultimatum 
but a demarche with a time limit, and that if the Austrian 
demands were not compUed with within the time limit 
the Austro-Hungarian Government would break off diplo- 
matic relations and begin military preparations, not opera- 
tions. 

. . . it makes the immediate situation 'rather less 
acute. 

No. is 
Sir F. Bertie to Sir Edward Grey 

Paris, July 25, 1914. 
I learn from the Acting Political Director that the French 
Government has not yet received the explanation from the 
Austrian Government contained in your telegram to-day. 
[No. 14.] They have, however, through the Servian Minis- 
ter here, given similar advice to Servia as was contained 
in your telegram to Belgrade of yesterday. [No. 12.] 

No. 16 
Sir F. Bertie to Sir Edw.vrd Grey 

Paris, July 25, 1914. 
Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs has no suggestions to 
make except that moderating advice might be given at 
Vienna as well as at Belgrade. He hopes that the Servian 
Government's answer to the Austrian ultimatum will be 
sufficiently favorable to obviate extreme measures being 
taken by the Austrian Government. He says, however, 
that there would be a revolution in Servia if she were to 
accept the Austrian demands in their entirety. 

No. 17 
Sir G. Buchanan to Sir Edward Grey 

St. Petersburg, July 25, 1914. 
[Reference to dispatches 14 and 12.] 
. . . The Minister for Foreign Affairs said, as re- 
gards the former, that the explanations of the Austrian 



BRITISH "WHITE PAPER" 



219 



Ambassador did not quite correspond with the informa- 
tion which had reached him from German quarters. As 
regards the latter, both His Excellency and the French 
Ambassador agreed that it is too late to make such a com- 
munication, as the time Umit expires this evening. 

The Minister for Foreign Affairs said, that Servia was 
quite ready to do as you had suggested and to punish those 
proved to be guilty, but that no independent State could 
be expected to accept the political demands which had been 
put forward 

If Servia should appeal to the Powers, Russia would be 
quite ready to stand aside and leave the question in the 
hands of England, France, Germany, and Italy. It was 
possible, in his opinion, that Servia might propose to sub- 
mit the question to arbitration. 

On my expressing the earnest hope that Russia would 
not precipitate war by mobilizing until you had had time 
to use your influence in favor of peace. His Excellency as- 
sured me that Russia had no aggressive intentions, and she 
would take no action until it was forced on her. . . . 

. . . His Excellency repUed that Russia could not 
allow Austria to crush Servia and become the predominant 
Power in the Balkans, and, if she feels secure of the support 
of France, she will face all the risks of war. . . . 

No. 18 
Sir H. Rumbold to Sir Edward Grey 

Berhn, July 25, 1914. 

. . . Secretary of State . . . admitted quite 
freely that Austro-Hungarian Government wished to give 
the Servians a lesson, and that they meant to take military 
action. He also admitted that Servian Government could 
not swallow certain of the Austro-Hungarian demands. 

Secretary of State said that a reassuring feature of sit- 
uation was that Count Berchtold had sent for Russian 
representative at Vienna and had told him that Austria- 
Hungary had no intention of seizing Servian territory. 
This step should, in his opinion, exercise a calming influence 
at St. Petersburg. . . . He remained of opinion that 
crisis could be locaUzed. ... If the relations between 
Austria and Russia became threatening, he was quite ready 
to fall in with your suggestion as to the four Powers 
working in favor of moderation at Vienna and St. Peters- 
burg. ... 

No. ig 
Sir R. Rodd to Sir Edward Grey 

Rome, July 25, 1914. 

I saw the Secretary General this morning. . . . 

In his opinion Austria will only be restrained by the 

unconditional acceptance by the Servian Government 

of her note. There is reliable information that Austria 

intends to seize the Salonica Railway. 

No. 20 
Sir M. de Bdnsen to Sir Edward Grey 

Vienna, July 25, 1914. 
Language of press this morning leaves the impression 
that the surrender of Servia is neither expected nor really 
desired. It is officially announced that the Austrian Minis- 
ter is instructed to leave Belgrade with staff of legation 
failing unconditional acceptance of note at 6 P. M. to- 
day. . . . 

No. 21 
Mr. Crackanthorpe to Sir Edward Grey 

Belgrade, July 25, 1914. 
The Council of Ministers is now drawing up their reply 
to the Austrian note. I am informed by the Under Secre- 
tary of State for Foreign Affairs that it will be most con- 
ciliatory and will meet the Austrian demands in as large 
a measure as is possible. 



[A summary of the projected reply follows. 
See No. 39.] 

The Servian Government consider that, unless the Aus- 
trian Government want war at any cost, they cannot but 
be content with the full satisfaction offered in the Servian 
reply. 



Mr. 



No. 22 
Crackanthorpe to Sm Edward Grey 



Belgrade, July 25, 1914. 
. . . In view of the proposed conciliatory terms of 
the Servian reply, I have up to now abstained from offering 
advice to the Servian Government. . . . 

No. 23 
Mr. Crackanthorpe to Sir Edward Grey 

Belgrade, July 25, 1914. 
The Austrian Minister left at 6:30. 
The Government has left for Nish, where the Skuptchina 
will meet on Monday. . . . 

No. 24 
Sir Edward Grey to Sir G. Buchanan 

London, Foreign Office, 
July 25, 1914. 

You spoke quite rightly in very difficult circumstances 
as to the attitude of His Majesty's Government. I en- 
tirely approve what you said, as reported in your telegram 
of yesterday [No. 6], and I cannot promise more on behalf 
of the Government. . . . 

The sudden, brusque, and peremptory character of the 
Austrian demarche makes it almost inevitable that in a very 
short time both Russia and Austria will have mobiUzed 
against each other. In this event, the only chance of peace, 
in my opinion, is for the other four Powers to join in asking 
the Austrian and Russian Governments not to cross the 
frontier, and to give time for the four Powers acting at 
Vienna and St. Petersburg to try and arrange matters. 
If Germany will adopt this view, I feel strongly that France 
and ourselves should act upon it. Italy would no doubt 
gladly cooperate. . . . 

No. 25 
Sir Edward Grey to Sir H. Rumbold 

London, Foreign Ofl[ice, 

July 25, 1914. 

The Austrian Ambassador has been authorized to in- 
form me that the Austrian method of procedure on expiry 
of the time limit would be to break off diplomatic relations 
and commence military preparations, but not miUtary 
operations. 

Apparently we 'should now soon be face to face with the 
mobilization of Austria and Russia. The only chance of 
peace, if this did happen, would be for Germany, France, 
Russia* and ourselves to keep together, and to join in 
asking Austria and Russia not to cross the frontier till 
we had had time to try and arrange matters between 
them. 

The German Ambassador read me a telegram from the 
German Foreign Office saying that his Government had 
not known beforehand, and had had no more than other 
Powers to do with the stiff terms of the Austrian note to 
Servia, but that once she had launched that note, Austria 
coidd not draw back. Prince Lichnowsky said, however, 
that if what I contemplated was mediation between Austria 
and Russia, Austria might be able with dignity to accept 
it. . . . 

I impressed upon the Ambassador that, in the event of 
Russian and Austrian mobilization, the participation of 
Germany would be essential to any diplomatic action for 
peace. . . . 



•This is, apparently, a misprint and should read "Italy.* 



220 



EUROPE AT WAR 



No. 26 
Sir Edward Grey to Sir M. de Bunsen 

London, Foreign Office, 
July 25, 1914. 

The Russian Ambassador has communicated to me the 
following telegram, which his Government have sent to the 
Russian Ambassador at Vienna, with instructions to com- 
municate it to the Austrian Minister for Foreign Affairs: 

"The delay given to Servia for a reply is so limited that 
the Powers are prevented from taking any steps to avert 
the complications which are threatening. The Russian 
Government trust that the Austrian Government will pro- 
long the time limit, and as the latter have declared their 
willingness to inform the Powers of the data on which they 
have based their demands on Servia, the Russian Govern- 
ment hope that these particulars will be furnished in order 
that the Powers may examine the matter. . . ." 

Since the telegram to the Russian Ambassador at 
Vienna was sent, it has been a relief to hear that the steps 
which the Austrian Government were taking were to be 
limited for the moment to the rupture of relations and to 
miUtary preparations, and not operations. I trust, there- 
fore, that if the Austro-Hungarian Government consider it 
too late to prolong the time Umit, they will at any rate give 
time in the sense and fur the reasons desired by Russia 
before taking any irretrievable steps. 

No. 27 

Sir Edward Grey to Sir F. Bertie, Sir H. Rumbold, 

AND Sir G. Buchanan 

London, Foreign Office, 

July 25, 1914. 

I have communicated to German Ambassador the fore- 
cast of the Servian reply contained in Mr. Crackanthorpe's 
telegram of to-day [No. 21). I have said that, if Servian 
reply, when received at Vienna, corresponds to this forecast, 
I hope the German Government will feel able to influence 
the Austrian Government to take a favorable view of it. 

No. 28 

(Nil.) 

No. 29 

Sir Edward Grey to Sir R. Rodd 

London, Foreign Office, 
July 25, 1914. 
The Italian Ambassador came to see me to-day. I told 
him in general terms what I had said to the German Am- 
bassador this morning. 
The Italian Ambassador cordially approved of this. . . . 

No. 30 
Sir Edward Grey to Mr. Crackanthorpe 
London, Foreign Office, 

July 25, 1914. 

Sir: The Servian Minister called on the 23d instant 
and spoke to Sir A. Nicolson on the present strained rela- 
tions between Servia and Austria-Hungary. 

He said that his Government were most anxious and 
disquieted. They were perfectly ready to meet any 
reasonable demands of Austria-Hungary so long as such 
demands were kept on the "terrain juridique." . . . 

Sir A. Nicolson, on being asked by M. Boschkovitch 
his opinion on the whole question, observed that there were 
no data on which to base one, though it was to be hoped 
that the Servian Government would endeavor to meet 
the Austrian demands in a conciliatory and moderate spirit. 

No. 31 
Sir M. de Bunsen to Sir Edward Grey 

Vienna, July 25, 1914. 
Servian reply to the .^ustro-Hungarian demands is not 
considered satisfactory, and the Austro-Hungarian Minis- 
ter has left Belgrade. War is thought to be imminent. 



No. 32 
Sir M. de Bunsen to Sir Edw.ard Grey 

Vienna, July 26, 19 14. 
According to confident belief of German Ambassador 
Russia will keep quiet during chastisement of Servia, 
which Austria-Hungary is resolved to iniJict, having re- 
ceived assurances that no Servian territory will be an- 
nexed by Austria-Hungary. . . . 

[The German Ambassador in Vienna spoke op- 
timistically of peaceful conditions in Russia and 
France. He believed that Servia deserved the 
punishment she was about to receive. He as- 
serted that " Servian concessions were all a sham."] 

No. i3 
Sir H. Rumbold to Sir Edw.\rd Grey 

Berlin, July 26, 1914. 

[He voiced apprehension lest the German Em- 
peror's unexpected return to Berlin might cause 
speculation and excitement, and reported the 
German Under Secretary of State's belief that 
"Russia would not act if Austria did not annex 
territory."] 

No. 34 
Sir H. Rumbold to Sir Edward Grey 

Berlin, July 26, 1914. 
Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs has just 
telephoned to me to say that German Ambassador at 
Vienna has been instructed to pass on to Austro-Hungarian 
Goverrmient your hopes that they may take a favorable 
view of Servian reply if it corresponds to the forecast 
contained in Belgrade telegram of 2sth July. 

Under Secretary of State considers very fact of their 
making this communication to Austro-Hungarian Govern- 
ment implies that they associate themselves to a certain 
extent \vith your hope. German Government do not see 
their way to going beyond this. 

No. 35 
Sir R. Rodd to Sir Edward Grey 

Rome, July 26, 1914. 
Minister for Foreign Affairs welcomes your proposal 
for a conference and will instruct Italian Ambassador 
to-night accordingly. 

Austrian Ambassador has informed Italian Government 
this evening that Minister in Belgrade had been recalled 
but that this did not imply declaration of war. 

No. 36 

Sir Edward Grey to Sir F. Bertie, Sir H. Rumbold, 

and Sir R. Rodd 

London, Foreign Office, 

July 26, 1914. 
Would Minister for Foreign Affairs be disposed to in- 
struct Ambassador here to join with representatives of 
France, Italy ,[and Germany, and myself to meet here in con- 
ference immediately for the purpose of discovering an 
issue which would prevent complications? . . . If so, 
when bringing the above suggestion to the notice of the 
Governments to which they are accredited, representatives 
at Belgrade, Vienna, and St. Petersburg could be author- 
ized to request that all active military operations should 
be suspended pending results of conference. 



BRITISH "WHITE PAPER' 



221 



No. 37 
Sir Edward Grey to Sir F. Bertie 

London, Foreign Office, 
July 26, 1914. 
It is important to know if France will agree to suggested 
action by the four powers if necessary. 

No. 38 
Sir R. Rood to Sir Edward Grey 

Rome, July 23, 1914. 
. . . Secretary General, whom I saw this morning at 
the Italian Foreign Office, took the view that the gravity 
of the situation lay in the convection of the Austro-Hunga- 
rian Government that it was absolutely necessary for their 
prestige, after the many disillusions which the turn of events 
ia the Balkans has occasioned, to score a definjte success. 

No. 39 
Reply of Servian Government to Austro- 

Hungarian Note 

(Communicated by the Servian Minister, July 27.) 

Belgrade, July 12 (25), 1914. 

The Royal Servian Government have received the 

communication of the Imperial and Royal Goverimient 

of the roth instant, and are convinced that their reply will 

remove any misunderstanding which may threaten to 

impair the good neighborly relations between the Austro- 

Hungarian Monarchy and the Kingdom of Servia. . . . 

[Servia asserts that the declarations of March 
18, 1909, have neither been renewed nor questioned 
since that time.] 

Servia has several times given proofs of her pacific 
and moderate policy during the Balkan crisis, and it 
is thanks to Servia and to the sacrifice that she has made 
in the e.xclusive interest of European peace that that peace 
has been preserved. The Royal Government cannot be 
held responsible for manifestations of a private character, 
such as articles in the press and the peaceable work of 
societies. . . . 

For these reasons the Royal Government have been 
pained and surprised at the statements according to which 
members of the Kingdom of Servia are supposed to have 
participated in the preparations for the crime committed 
at Serajevo; the Royal Government expected to be invited 
to collaborate in an investigation of all that concerns this 
crime, and they were ready, in order to prove the entire 
correctness of their attitude, to take measures against 
any persons concerning whom representations were made 
to them. Falling in, therefore, with the desire of the 
Imperial and Royal Government, they are prepared to 
hand over for trial any Servian subject, without regard to 
his situation or rank, of whose compUcity in the crime 
of Serajevo proofs are forthcoming, and more especially 
they undertake to cause to be published on the first page 
of the Journal officicl, on the date of the 13th (26th) 
July, the following declaration: 

[This pronotincement condemned all anti- 
Austrian propaganda and ordered ofiScers to 
suppress it. The note then goes on to answer 
Austria's specific demands with ten promises. 
Servia imdertakes : (1) To pass a law suppressing 
anti-Austrian publications; (2) to dissolve the 
Narodna Odbrana and other societies in spite of 
lack of evidence against them; (3) to remove 
anti- Austrian propaganda from public instruction; 
(4) to remove military ofi&cers guilty of anti- 



Austrian agitation, provided the Austrian Govern- 
ment furnish the names and acts; (5) to permit 
Austrian collaboration provided it be legal and 
friendly; (6) to instigate inquiries, but not, how- 
ever, to permit the participation of Austrian 
agents; (7) Voislav Tankossitch had already been 
arrested, but Milan Ziganovitch could not be 
found; (8) to reinforce measures prohibiting the 
illicit traffic in arms and explosives across the 
frontier; (9) to offer explanations of inflamma- 
tory remarks of Servian officers; (10) to inform 
Austria of the execution of these measures as 
promptly as possible.] 

If the Imperial and Royal Government are not satisfied 
with this reply, the Servian Government, considering that 
it is not to the common interest to precipitate the solution 
of this question, are ready, as always, to accept a pacific 
understanding, either by referring this question to the 
decision of the International Tribunal of The Hague, or 
to the Great Powers which took part in the drawing up of 
the declaration made by the Servian Government on the 
i8th (31st) March, igog. 

No. 40 
Sir M. de Bunsen to Sir Edward Grey 

Vienna, July 26, 1914. 

Russian Ambassador just returned from leave thinks 
that Austro-Hungarian Government are determined on 
war, and that it is impossible for Russia to remain in- 
different. He does not propose to press for more time in 
the sense of yoiu" telegram of the 25th instant [No. 26] 
(last paragraph). 

When the repetition of your telegram of the 26th instant 
to Paris [No. 36I arrived, I had the French and Russian 
Ambassadors both with me. They expressed great satis- 
faction with its contents, which I communicated to them. 
They doubted, however, whether the principle of Russia 
being an interested party entitled to have a say in the settle- 
ment of a purely Austro-Servian dispute would be accepted 
by either the Austro-Hungarian or the German Govern- 
ment. . . . 

No. 41 
Sir M. de Bunsen to Sir Edward Grey 

Vienna, July 27, 1914. 
I have had conversations with all my colleagues re- 
presenting the Great Powers. The impression left on my 
mind is that the Austro-Hungarian note was so drawn up 
as to make war inevitable, that the Austro-Hungarian 
Government are fully resolved to have war with Servia; 
that they consider their position as a Great Power to be at 
stake, and that until punishment has been administered 
to Servia it is unlikely that they will listen to proposals of 
mediation. . . . 

No. 42 
Sir F. Bertie to Sir Edward Grey 

Paris, July 27, 1914. 
Your proposal as stated in your two telegrams of yester- 
day [Nos. 36 and 37), is accepted by the French Govern- 
ment. French Ambassador in London, who returns there 
this evening, has been instructed accordingly. Instruc- 
tions have been sent to the French Ambassador at Berlin 
to concert «ith his British coUeague as to the advisability of 
their speaking jointly to the German Government. . . . 



222 



EUROPE AT WAR 



No. 43 
Sir E. Goschen to Sir Edward Grey 

Berlin, July 27, 1914. 
Secretary of State says that conference you suggest 
would practically amount to a court of arbitration and 
could not, in his opinion, be called together except at the 
request of Austria and Russia. He could not, therefore, 
fall in with your suggestion, desirous though he was to co- 
operate for the maintenance of peace. . . . 

In the course of a short conversation Secretary of State 
said that as yet Austria was only partially mobilizing, but 
that if Russia mobilized against Germany latter would 
have to follow suit. . . . 

No. 44 
Sir G. Buchanan to Sir Edward Grey 

St. Petersburg, July 27, 1914. 
Austrian Ambassador tried, in a long conversation, 
which he had yesterday with the Minister for Foreign 
Affairs, to explain away objectionable features of the 
recent action taken by the Austro-Hungarian Govern- 
ment. Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed out that, 
although he perfectly understood Austria's motives, the 
ultimatum had been so drafted that it could not possibly 
be accepted as a whole by the Servian Government. 
Although the demands were reasonable enough in some 
cases, others not only could not possibly be put into im- 
mediate e.xecution, seeing that they entailed revision of 
e.risting Servian laws, but were, moreover, incompatible 
with Servia's dignity as an independent State. It would 
be useless for Russia to offer her good offices at Belgrade, 
in view of the fact that she was the object of such suspicion 
in Austria. . . . 

[He repeated to the Russian minister that Eng- 
land beheved that the cause of peace would not be 
advanced by her taking sides.] 

In these circumstances I trusted that the Rus- 
sian Government would defer the mobilization ukase for 
as long as possible, and that troops would not be allowed 
to cross the frontier even when it was issued. . . . 

No. 45 
Sir G. Buchanan to Sir Edward Grey 

St. Petersburg, July 27, 1914. 
Minister for Foreign Affairs has proposed that the modi- 
fications to be introduced into Austrian demands should 
be the subject of direct conversation between Vienna and 
St. Petersburg. 

No. 46 
Sir Edward Grey to Sir E. Goschen 

London, Foreign Office, 
July 27, 1914. 

German Ambassador has informed me that German 
Government accept in principle mediation between Austria 
and Russia by the four Powers, reserving, of course, their 
right as an ally to help Austria if attacked. He has also 
been instructed to request me to use influence in St. Peters- 
burg to localize the war and to keep up the peace of Europe. 

I have replied that the Servian reply went further 
than could have been e.xpected to meet the Austrian de- 
mands. German Secretary of State has himself said that 
there were some things in the Austrian note that Servia 
could hardly be expected to accept. I assumed that 
Servian reply could not have gone as far as it did unless 
Russia had exercised conciUatory influence at Belgrade 
and it was really at Vienna that moderating influence was 
now required. . . . Servian reply should at least be 
treated as a basis for discussion and pause. I said German 
Government should urge this at Vienna. . . . 



No. 47 
Sir Edward Grey to Sir G. Buchanan 

London, Foreign Office, 
July 27, 1914. 
See my telegram of to-day to Sir E. Goschen. [No. 37.) 
I have been told by the Russian Ambassador that in 
German and Austrian circles impression prevails that in 
any event we would stand aside. His Excellency deplored 
the effect that such an impression must produce. 

This impression ought, as I have pointed out. to be 
dispelled. . . . 

No. 48 
Sir E. Grey to Sir M. de Bunsen 

London, Foreign Office, 
July 27, 1914. 
Count Mensdorflf told me by instruction to-day that the 
Servian Government had not accepted the demands which 
the Austrian Government were obliged to address to them 
. . . Very reluctantly, and against their wish, the 
Austrian Government were compelled to take more severe 
measures to enforce a fundamental change of the attitude 
of enmity pursued up to now by Servia. . . . 

I said that I could not understand the construction put 
by the Austrian Government upon the Servian reply. . . . 
Count Mensdorff admitted that on paper, the Servian 
reply might seem to be satisfactory; but the Servians had 
refused the one thing — the cooperation of Austrian offi- 
cials and poUce — which would be a real guarantee that 
in practice the Servians would not carry on their subversive 

campaign against Austria 

It seemed to me that the Servian reply already 
involved the greatest humiUation to Servia that I had 
ever seen a country undergo, and it was very disappointing 
to me that the reply was treated by the Austrian Govern- 
ment as if it were as unsatisfactory as a blank negative. 

No. 49 
Sis Edward Grey to Sir R. Rodd 

London, Foreign Office, 
July 27, 1914. 
The Italian Ambassador informed Sir A. Nicolson to-day 
that the ItaUan Minister for Foreign Affairs agreed entirely 
with my proposal for a conference of four to be held in 
London. 

As regards the question of asking Russia, Austria- 
Hungary, and Servia to suspend military operations 
pending the result of the conference, the Marquis di San 
Giuliano would recommend the suggestion warmly to the 
German Government, and would inquire what procedure 
they would propose should be followed at Vienna. 

No. 50 
Sir M. de Bunsen to Sir Edward Grey 

Vienna, July 28, 1914. 
I have the honor to transmit to you herewith the text 
of the Austro-Hungarian note announcing the declaration 
of war against Servia. 

enclosure in no. so 
Copy of Note Verbale, dated Vienna, July 28, 191^. 
In order to bring to an end the subversive intrigues 
originating from Belgrade and aimed at the territorial 
integrity of the Austro-Hungarian Monarchy, the Imperial 
and Royal Government has deUvered to the Royal Servian 
Government a note in which a series of demands were for- 
mulated, for the acceptance of which a delay of forty-eight 
hours has been granted to the Royal Government. The 
Royal Servian Government not having answered this note 
in a satisfactory manner, the Imperial and Royal Govern- 
ment are themselves compelled to see to the safeguarding 
of their rights and interests, and, with this object, to have 
recourse to force of arms. . . . 



BRITISH "WHITE PAPER" 



223 



No. SI 
Sir F. Bertie to Edward Grey 

Paris, July 27, 1914. 
I have the honor to transmit to you herewith copy of a 
memorandum from the acting Minister for Foreign Affairs 
as to the steps to be taken to prevent an outbreak of hos- 
tilities between Austria-Hungary and Servia. 

[The enclosure is a note from M. Bienvenue- 
Martin, dated Paris, July 27th. It acknowledges 
Sir Edward Grey's proposal to Join Germany and 
Italy in an appeal to Austria and Russia, and 
offers French support. M. Jules Cambon is to 
cooperate with the British Ambassador in Berlin 
and M. Paul Cambon is appointed to take part 
in the proposed conference. The French minister 
"considers, however, that the chance of Sir E. 
Grey's proposal being successful depends essen- 
tially on the action which the Berlin Government 
would be willing to take at Vienna."] 

No. 52 
Note Communicated by French Embassy, July 28, 1914. 

[A formal notification of the same purport as 
No. 51.] 

No. S3 
M. Sazonof to Count Benckendorff 
(Communicated by Count Benckendorff, July 28.) 
St. Petersburg, July 27, 1914. 
The British Ambassador came to ascertain whether 
we think it desirable that Great Britain should take the 
initiative in convoking a conference in London of the rep- 
resentatives of England, France, Germany, and Italy to 
examine the possibihty of a way out of the present situation. 
I replied to the Ambassador that I have begun conver- 
sations with the Austro-Hungarian Ambassador under con- 
ditions which I hope may be favorable. . . . 

If direct explanations with the Vienna Cabinet were to 
prove impossible, I am ready to accept the British proposal, 
or any other proposal of a kind that would bring about a 
favorable solution of the conflict. 

No. 54 
M. SA20N0F to Count Benckendorff 
(Communicated by Coimt Benckendorff, July 28, 1914.) 
St. Petersburg, July 15 (28), 1914. 

My interviews with the German Ambassador confirm 
my impression that Germany is, if anything, in favor of 
the uncompromising attitude adopted by Austria. 

The Berlin Cabinet, who could have prevented the whole 
of this crisis developing, appear to be exerting no influence 
on their ally. 

The Ambassador considers that the Servian reply is in- 
sufficient. . . . 

It seems to me that England is in a better position than 
any other power to make another attempt at Berlin to in- 
duce the German Government to take the necessary ac- 
tion. . . . 

No. ss 
Sir G. Buchanan to Sir Edward Grey 

St. Petersburg, July 27, 1914. 
I saw the Minister of Foreign Affairs this afternoon and 
found him very conciliatory and more optimistic. 

He would, he said, use all his influence at Belgrade to 
induce the Servian Government to go as far as possible 



in giving satisfaction to Austria, but her territorial integrity 
must be guaranteed and her rights as a sovereign State re- 
spected, so that she should not become Austria's vassal. . . 
His Excellency said he was perfectly ready to stand aside 
if the Powers accepted the proposal for a conference, but 
he trusted that you would keep in touch with the Russian 
Ambassador in the event of its taking place. 

No. s6 
Sir M. de Bunsen to Sir Edward Grey 

Vienna, July 27, 1914. 
The Russian Ambassador had to-day a long and earnest 
conversarion mth Baron Macchio, the Under Secretary of 
State for Foreign Affairs. . . . He could assiu-e him 
that it actual war broke out with Servia, it would be im- 
possible to localize it. . . . He earnestly hoped that 
something would be done before Servia was actually in- 
vaded. Baron Macchio replied that this would now be 
difficult, as a skirmish had already taken place on the Da- 
nube, in which the Servians had been aggressors. The 
Russian Ambassador said that he would do all he could 
to keep the Servians quiet pending any discussions that 
might yet take place, and he told me that he would advise 
his Government to induce the Servian Government to avoid 
any conflict as long as possible, and to fall back before an 
Austrian advance. Time so gained should suffice to enable 
a settlement to be reached. . . . 

No. S7 
Sir R. Rood to Sir Edward Grey 

Rome, July 27, 1914. 
Minister for Foreign Affairs greatly doubts whether 
Germany will be wilUng to invite Austria to suspend mili- 
tary action pending the conference, but he had hopes 
that mihtary action may be practically deferred by the 
fact of the conference meeting at once. As at present 
informed, he sees no possibility of Austria receding from 
any point laid down in her note to Servia, but he believes 
that if Servia will even now accept it Austria wiU be satis- 
fied, and if she had reason to think that such will be the 
advice of the Powers, Austria may defer action. Servia 
may be induced to accept note in its entirety on the advice 
of the four Powers invited to the conference, and this would 
enable her to say that she had yielded to Europe and not 
to Austria-Hungary alone. . . . 

No. sS 
Sir F. Bertie to Sir Edward Grey 

Paris, July 28, 1914. 

[Reporting the transmission of the contents of 
No. 46 to the French Acting Minister for Foreign 
Affairs.] 

No. 59 
Sir F. Bertie to Sir Edward Grey 

Paris, July 28, 1914. 

[Reporting the transmission of the contents of 
No. 47 to the French minister.] 

. . . German Ambassador has stated that Austria 
would respect the integrity of Servia, but when asked 
whether her independence also would be respected, he gave 
no assurance. 

No. 60 
Sir E. Goschen to Sir Edward Grey 

Berlin, July 28, 1914. 

[British, French, and Italian ambassadors take 
up the matter of the proposed conference with the 
German Secretary of State.] 



224 



EUROPE AT WAR 



. . . while refusing the proposed conference, he had 
said to all of us that nevertheless he desired to work with 
us for the maintenance of general peace. We therefore 
deduced that if he is sincere in this wish he can only be 
objecting to the form of your proposal. . . . 

No. 6i 
Sir M. de Bunsen to Sir Edward Grey 

Vienna. July 28, 1914. 
Minister for Foreign Affairs declared that Austria- 
Hungary cannot delay warlike proceedings against Servia 
and would have to decUne any suggestion of negotiations 
on basis of Servian reply. 

Prestige of Dual Monarchy was engaged, and nothing 
could now prevent conflict. 

No. O2 
Sir M. de Bunsen to Sir Edward Grey 

Vienna, July 28. 1914. 

[Reports the transmission of tiie contents of 
No. 46 to the Austrian Minister for Foreign 
Affairs.] 

. . . I added that you had regarded Servian reply 
as having gone far to meet just demands of Austria- 
Hungarj'; that you thought it constituted a fair basis of 
discussion during which warlike operations might remain 
in abeyance, and that Austrian Ambassador in Berlin was 
speaking in this sense. Minister for Foreign Affairs said 
quietly, but firmly, that no discussion could be accepted 
on basis of Servian note; that war would be declared to-day 
and that well-known pacific character of Emperor, as well 
as, he might add, his own, might be accepted as a guarantee 
that war was both just and inevitable. This was a matter 
that must be settled directly between the two parties 
immediately concerned. . . . 

No. 63 
Sir R. Rodd to Sir Edward Grey 

Rome, July 28, 1914. 
[Reports the communication of the substance 
of No. 27 to the Italian Minister for Foreign 
Affairs.] 

No. 64 
Sir R. Rodd to Sir Edward Grey 

Rome, July 28, 1914. 
At the request of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, I 
submit the following to you : 

In a long conversation this morning Servian ChargS 
d'.Vffaires had said he thought that if some explanations 
were given regarding mode in which Austrian agents 
would require to intervene under .Article V. and Article VI. 
Servia might still accept the whole Austrian note. 

As it was not to be anticipated that Austria would give 
such explanations to Servaa, they might be given to Powers 
engaged in discussions, who might then advise Servia to 
accept without conditions. . . . 

Minister impressed upon me, above all, his anxiety for 
the immediate beginning of the discussion. . . . 

No. 65 
Mr. Crackanthorpe to Sir Edward Grey 

Nish, July 28, 1914. 
I have urged on the Servian Government the greatest 
moderation pending efforts being made toward a peaceful 
solution. 

Two Servian steamers fired on and damaged, and two 
Serbian merchant vessels have been captured by a Hun- 
garian monitor at Orsova. 



No. 66 
Mr. Crackanthorpe to Sir Edward Grey 

Nish, July 28, IQ14. 
Telegram received here that war declared by Austria. 

No. 67 
Sir Edward Grey to Sir E. Goschen 

London, Foreign Office, 
July 28, 1914. 
Explanation given in your telegram of the 27th Juh- 
[No. 43] of what was my idea in proposing a conference 
is quite right. . . . 

But as long as there is a prospect of a direct exchange of 
Wews between Austria and Russia, I would suspend every 
other suggestion. . . . 

No. 68 
Sir Edward Grey to Sir E. Goschen 

London, Foreign Office, 
July 28, 1914. 
German Government, having accepted principle of 
mediation between Austria and Russia by the four Powers, 
if necessary, I am ready to propose that the German 
Secretary of State should suggest the lines on which this 
principle should be applied. I will, however, keep the 
idea in reserve until we see how the conversations between 
Austria and Russia progress. 

No. 69 
Sir Edward Grey to Sir G. Buchanan 

London, Foreign Ofiice, 
July 28, 1914. 
It is most satisfactory that there is a prospect of direct 
exchange of views between the Russian and Austrian 
Governments. 

No. 70 
Telegr.vms Communicated by Count Benckendorff, 

July 29, 1914. 
(i) Telegram from M. Sazonof to Russian Ambassador at 
Berlin, dated July 28, 1914. 
In consequence of the declaration of war by Austria 
against Serxna, the Imperial Government will announce 
to-morrow (29th) the mobilization in the mihtary cir- 
conscriptions of Odessa, Kieff, Moscow, and Kazan. 
Please inform German Government, confirming the absence 
in Russia of any aggressive intention against Germany. 

The Russian Ambassador at Vienna has not been re- 
called from his post. 

(2) Telegram to Count Benckendorff. 

The Austrian declaration of war clearly puts an end to 
the idea of direct communications between Austria and 
Russia. Action by London Cabinet in order to set on foot 
mediation with a view to suspension of mihtary operations 
of .Austria against Servia is now most urgent. . . . 

No. 71 
Sir E. Goschen to Sir Edward Gri;y 

Berlin, July 28, 1914. 

Imperial Chancellor said that he wished me to tell you 
that he was most anxious that Germany should work to- 
gether with England for maintenance of general peace. 

. . . He had not been able to accept your proposal 
for a conference of representatives of the Great Powers, be- 
cause he did not think that it would be effective. . . . 
You could be assured that he was doing his very best both 
at Vienna and St. Petersburg to get the two Governments 
to discuss the situation directly with each other and in a 
friendly way. He had great hopes that such discussions 
would take place and lead to a satisfactory result, but if 
the news were true which he had just read in the papers, that 
Russia had mobilized fourteen army corps in the south, he 



BRITISH "WHITE PAPER" 



225 



thought situation was very serious, and he himself would be 
in a very difficult position. ... I ventured to say that 
if Austria refused to take any notice of Servian note, 
which, to my mind, gave way in nearly every point de- 
manded by Austria, and which in any case offered a basis 
for discussion, surely a certain portion of responsibility 
would rest with her. His Excellency said that he did not 
wish to discuss Servian note, but that Austria's standpoint, 
and in this he agreed, was that her quarrel with Servia 
was a purely Austrian concern with which Russia had 
nothing to do. . . . 

No. 72 
Sir G. Buchanan to Sir Edward Grey 

St. Petersburg, July 28, 1914. 
Minister for Foreign Affairs . . . took a pessimistic 
view of the situation, having received the same disquieting 
news from Vienna as had reached his Majesty's Govern- 
ment. . . . His Excellency stated that if Servia were 
attacked, Russia would not be satisfied with any engage- 
ment which Austria might take on these two points, and 
that order for mobilization against Austria would be issued 
on the day that Austria crossed Servian frontier. . . . 

No. 73 
Sir M. de Bunsen to Sir Edward Grey 

Vienna, July 28, 1914. 
I have received note verbale from Ministry for Foreign 
Affairs, stating that the Servian Government not having 
replied to note of 23d July [No. 4] in a satisfactory manner. 
Imperial and Royal Government is compelled itself to 
provide for protection of its rights, and to have recourse 
for that object to force of arms. . . . 

No. 74 
Sir M. de Bunsen to Sir Edward Grey 

Vienna, July 28, 1914. 

I am informed by the Russian .Embassador that the 
Russian Government's suggestion has been declined by 
the Austro-Hungarian Government. The suggestion 
was to the effect that the means of settling the Austro- 
Servian conflict should be discussed directly between Rus- 
sian Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Austrian Ambas- 
sador at St. Petersburg, who should be authorized accord- 
ingly. 

The Russian Ambassador thinks that a conference 
in London of the less interested Powers, such as you have 
proposed, offers now the only prospect of preserving peace 
of Europe, and he is sure that the Russian Government 
will acquiesce willingly in your proposal. . . . 

No. 75 
Sir E. Goschen to Sir Edward Grey 

Berlin, July 29, 1914. 
The Imperial Chancellor told me that he regretted to 
state that the Austro-Hungarian Government, to whom 
he had at once communicated your opinion, had answered 
that events had marched too rapidly and that it was there- 
fore too late to act upon your suggestion that the Servian 
reply might form the basis of discussion. . . . 

[The German Chancellor upheld Austria for not 
being satisfied with the Servian reply, but had 
advised her to make it plain that the projected 
hostilities were merely to secure guarantees from 
Servia.] 

From the fact that he had gone so far in the matter 
of giving advice at Vienna, His Excellency hoped that you 
would realize that he was sincerely doing all in his power 
to prevent danger of European complications. . . . 



No. 76 '• 
Sir E. Goschen to Sir Edward Grey 

Berlin, July 29, 1914. 

[The German Secretary of State stated that his 
efforts in Vienna had only precipitated action. He 
was troubled by reports of military measures in 
Russia and France. The Under Secretary of 
State thought the time might be right for a dis- 
cussion by the powers after Austria had entered 
Servia.] 

. . . Russian Ambassador returned to-day and has 
informed Imperial Government that Russia is mobilizing 
in four southern governments. 

No. 77 
Sir Edward Grey to Sir E. Goschen 

London, Foreign OfSce, 
July 2g, 1914. 
I much appreciate the language of Chancellor, as reported 
in your telegram of to-day [No. 75]. His Excellency may 
rely upon it that this country will continue, as heretofore, 
to strain effort to secure peace and to avert the calamity 
we all fear. If he can induce Austria to satisfy Russia and 
to abstain from going so far as to come into collision with 
her, we shall all join in deep gratitude to His Excellency 
for having saved the peace of Europe. 

No. 78 
Sir G. Buchanan to Sir Edward Grey 

St. Petersburg, July 29, 1914. 
Partial mobilization was ordered to-day. . . . 

[He reported a conversation with the Russian 
IMinister for Foreign Affairs, in which the latter 
explained that the Russian mobilization was di- 
rected only against Austria, and stated that the 
"Austrian Government had now definitely de- 
clined direct conversation between Vienna and St. 
Petersburg." He was now ready to return to the 
conference proposal. " Any arrangement approved 
by France and England would be acceptable to 
him." He insisted that the Russian Government 
had done its best to maintain peace.] 

. . . His Excellency said that he would agree to any- 
thing arranged by the four Powers, provided it was accept- 
able to Servia; he could not, he said, be more Servian than 
Servia. . . . 

The German Ambassador had informed His Excel- 
lency, so the latter told me, that his Government were 
continuing at Vienna to exert friendly influence. I fear 
that the German Ambassador will not help to smooth mat- 
ters over, if he uses to his own Government the same lan- 
guage as he did to me to-day. He accused the Russian 
Government of endangering the peace of Europe by their 
mobilization, and said, when I referred to all that had been 
recently done by Austria, that he could not discuss such 
matters. . . . 

No. 79 
Sir M. de Bunsen to Sir Edward Grey 

Vienna, July 29, 1914. 
There is at present no step which we could usefully take 
to stop war with Servia, to which Austro-Hungarian Gov- 
eiament are now fully committed by the Emperor's appeal 



226 



EUROPE AT WAR 



to his people, which has been published this morning, and 
by the declaration of war. ... If the Austro-Hun- 
garian Government would convert into a binding engage- 
ment to Europe the declaration which has been made at St. 
Petersburg to the effect that she desires neither to destroy 
the independence of Servia nor to acquire Servian territory, 
the ItaUan Ambassador thinks that Russia might be in- 
duced to remain quiet. . . . 

No. 80 
Sir R. Rood to Sir Edward Grey 

Rome, July 29, 1914. 

[He reports a difference of opinion as to Ger- 
many's expressed attitude toward a conference 
of the Powers.] 

. . . He [the Itahan Minister for Foreign Affairs] is 
going to urge, in a telegram which he is sending to Berlin 
to-night, adlierence to the idea of an exchange of views in 
London. He suggests that the German Secretary of State 
might propose a formula acceptable to his Government. 
Minister for Foreign Affairs is of opinion that this exchange 
of views would keep the door open if the direct communica- 
tion between Vienna and St. Petersburg fails to have any 
result. . . . 

No. 81 
Sir Edward Grey to Sir R. Rood 

London, Foreign Office, 
July 29, 1914. 

With reference to your telegram of yesterday [No. 64]. 

It is impossible for me to initiate discussions with Am- 
bassadors here, as I understand from Austrian Minister for 
Foreign Affairs that Austria will not accept any discussion 
on basis of Servian note, and the inference of all I have 
heard from Vienna and Berlin is that Austria will not accept 
any form of mediation by the Powers as between Austria 
and Servia. Itahan Minister for Foreign Affairs must 
therefore speak at Berlin and Vienna. . . . 

No. 82 
Mr. Beaumont to Sir Edward Grey 

Constantinople, July 29, 19 14. 

[He reports a current rumor that Austria has 

designs on Salonica.] 

No. 83 
Mr. Crackanthorpe to Sir Edward Grey 

Nish, July 29, 1914. 

[Conveys the thanks of the Servian Prime Min- 
ister.] 

No. 84 
Sir Edward Grey to Sir E. Goschen 

London, Foreign Office, 
July 29, 1914. 
The German Ambassador has been instructed by the 
German Chancellor to inform me that he is endeavoring 
to mediate between Vienna and St. Petersburg, and he 
hopes with good success. ... I told the German Am- 
bassador that an agreement arrived at direct between Aus- 
tria and Russia would be the best possible solution. I would 
press no proposal as long as there was a prospect of that, but 
my information this morning was that the Austrian Govern- 
ment had decUned the suggestion of the Russian Govern- 
ment that the Austrian Ambassador at St. Petersburg 
should be authorized to discuss directly with the Russian 
Minister for Foreign Affairs the means of settUng the 
Austro-Servian conflict. ... I urged that the Ger- 
man Government should suggest any method by which the 
influence of the four Powers could be used together to 



prevent war between Austria and Russia. France agreed, 
Italy agreed. The whole idea of mediation or mediating 
influence was ready to be put into operation by any 
method that Germany could suggest if mine was not ac- 
ceptable. In fact, mediation was ready to come into opera- 
tion by any method that Germany thought possible if 
only Germany would "press the button" in the interests 
of peace. 

No. 85 
Sir E. Goschen to Sir Edward Grey 

BerUn, July 29, 1914. 
The Chancellor said that should Austria be attacked by 
Russia a European conflagration might, he feared, become 
inevitable, owing to Germany's obligations as Austria's 
ally, in spite of his continued efforts to maintain peace. He 
then proceeded to make the following strong bid for British 
neutrality. 

[He offered to guarantee that Germany woiild 
not seek territorial acquisitions at the expense of 
France.] 

I questioned His Excellency about the French colonies, 
and he said that he was unable to give a similar under- 
taking in that respect. As regards Holland, however. His 
Excellency said that, so long as Germany's adversaries 
respected the integrity and neutrahty of the Netherlands, 
Germany was ready to give His Majesty's Government an 
assurance that she would do hkewise. It depended upon 
the action of France what operations Germany might be 
forced to enter upon in Belgium, but when the war was over 
Belgian integrity would be respected if she had not sided 
against Germany. . . . 

No. 86 
Sir R. Rodd to Sir Edward Grey 

Rome, July 29, 1914. 
Minister for Foreign Affairs thinks that moment is past 
for any further discussions on basis of Servian note, in 
view of communication made to-day by Russia at Berlin 
regarding partial mobilization. The utmost he now hopes 
for is that Germany may use her influence at Vienna to 
prevent or moderate any further demands on Servia. 

No. 87 
Sir Edward Grey to Sir F. Bertie 

London, Foreign Office, 
July 29, 1914. 

[He reports a conversation with the French 
Ambassador in which he asserted England's neu- 
trahty, stating that she had no concern in the 
Austro-Servian controversy, and that she would 
have to decide later what to do in case France 
were drawn into the struggle. He wished Ger- 
many not to count too fully on British neutrality, 
nor would it be fair to allow France to coimt too 
surely on England's armed support.] 

M. Cambon said that I had explained the situation very 
clearly. He understood it to be that in a Balkan quarrel 
. . . we should not feel called to intervene; should 
other issues be raised, and Germany and France become 
involved, so that the question became one of the hegemony 
of Europe, we should then decide what (it was necessary 
for us to do. . . . 

He anticipated a demand from Germany that France 
would be neutral while Germany attacked Russia. This 
assurance, France, of course, could not give; she was bound 
to help Russia if Russia was attacked. 



FIGHTS, FIGHTERS, AND NON-COMBATANTS 



227 




(JKRMAXS CLOSELY PACKED IX THE TRENCHES 



JLejB- 











BELGL\NS IN OPEN ORDER 



Lupyri^ht by UndenvooJ &: Underwood, N. V. 



228 



E U R ( ) P E A T W A R 




GERMAN MORTAR BATTERY 



Copyright by American Press Association 






■^T^iiiAia r iiilHI 




9^ 






wL^wm^ 


m''v^^^'^ 




^^?^ 


^ 



OFF FOR THE FRONT 



IN CAMP IN BRUSSELS 



Copyriglit by Umicrvvood iV Underwood, N. Y. 
GERMAN TRANSPORT WAGONS 




Copyright by International News Co. N, Y. 



GERMAN INFANTRY ENTERING BRUSSELS 



FIGHTS, FIGHTERS. AND NON-COMBATANTS 



229 





rliototir^iLjllS couvrifht >v I n(<=Tiiiti<.inl Vi^n ^ <,.r. i 

bHOWlNG THE EFFECT OF THE ZEPPELLX BOMBS DROPPED INTO THE STREETS OF ANTWERP 



230 



EUROPE AT WAR 




BELGIANS AWAITING THE UHLANS 



Copyrieiht by International News Seirice 



m 


m 




w^ 







t 


w^ 1 



Copyrij^ht by International New 
A FIGHTING BELGIAN 


s Service 


Copyright by Underwood & Underwood, N. Y. 
GENERAL LEMAN DEFENDER OF LIEGE 




fiT ^^^^Kl 




1^ 


1 . ' 






^^B^*Bjij^^^JiB>. 


^^H 


•'^i 1 


k^ 




' ~ % s ^S^Kv" II 






^ 


k-S 





Copyriglit h\ American Press Association 

DEFENDERS OF LIEGE RESTING DURING A LULL IN THE FIGHTING 



FIGHTS, FIGHTERS, AND NON-COMBATANTS 



231 






*r^ 


«te" 


^ 


*■ / lift 

1 ^/ i 




J 


1 >^ n ■ 


1 


■"■■'■.^m^jf 




Li 


: 1 


VI 


/ 


F e-; - 






■ fi- 


K ^- ^ 


-V 


^te? 1 


.//• 


mas^ 


Brf^ri'^^Mr^ 







THE RESULT OF GERMAN FIRE 



Copyright by Undenvood & Underwood, N. Y. 
BELGIANS BURNING COTTAGES BEFORE FORTS 




BELGIAN PEOPLE FLEELNG FROM LOUVAIN 



232 



EUROPE AT WAR 




1 




^ 

k 


k^V \ 




'\ 




^■^ ' 


f 













Copyright by N. Y. Sun Printing and Publishing Co. 




IN FRAJ^CE 






IN BELGIUM 


. . 1 


Wi € 




B: ' -'^W.t fl 


^^B^^ 'ii^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^H ^P 




1 '*'^' 






£ 


■> . _^^' 


^^^^^^B^S 






t ^^ 


g^^*- ^ 


^^ 


■ 



^ ^l>>ri^l»rby Aiiiericau Press Assuciatiuii 



WAITING FOR FOOD IN BRUSSELS 

THE WOMEN LEFT BEHIND 



FIGHTS, FIGHTERS, AND NON-COMBATANTS 




i;. ri.Jii 1 \ Underwood A: Underwciod, N. Y. 



51i' 




■ 


H 




1 


^^^^^^^^^V ^^ il 




1 


^^^BHW'^^^^'^^^BK 


^^^^^^^B4t'. ^i^^^^^^^HH ^^^^^^1 


H 




L^i^^H^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^I 


H 



TYPES OF SOLIJIKRS FIGHTING UNDIiR THE FRENCH FLAG 

"tURCOS" from ALGERIA AND (aBUVE) MULE BATTERY 



234 



EUROPE AT WAR 




Copyright by American Press Associatiun 
BRITISH LIGHT INFANTRY ATOP A LONDON BUS 



Copyright by American Press Association 
PRINCE OF WALES WITH HIS REGIMENT 




Copyright by American Press Association 

BRITISH TROOPS COMMANDEERING HORSES IN LONDON 



FIGHTS, FIGHTERS, AND NON-COMBATANTS 235 




Photograph by American I'res^ AssoLiati'm 
KING GEORGE INSPECTING THE VETERANS 



Copyright by American Press Association 
BRIT^UN'S call to .\RiIS 




Copyright by Uinlcrwouit i- I ndcr\ 

BRITISH HIGHLANDERS LANDING AT BOULOGNE, FRANCE 



236 



EUROPE AT WAR 




Lu(,:,ri^lit \jy Uiiderivou.l i rnjcrwooil. N. V 
RUSSIAN RESERVISTS 



Copyright by Uiiderwooti &' L Iulei-woo(l, N, V 
CZAR SAMPLING SOLDIER'S FOOD 




RUSSIAN ARTILLERY ON THE WAY TO THE IKONT 



FIGHTS. FIGHTERS. AND N ON COMBATANTS 237 




I'li'iliTf^'raphs, copyright by American Press Associatiun 

IS THE WAR APPROVED IN BELGIUM ANU SERVIA? 

SINGINO, SHOUTING CROWDS IM BRUSSELS AND BELGRADE 



238 



EUROPE AT WAR 




Copyrisht by Uncienvood & Undenvood, N. Vt 
RAILWAY DESTROYED BY BELGIANS 



Ciiliyrij,'ht b>' iDternatioii.il .\.v, , jvi - i^i- 
REAPI-N'G OR_VE\ AND DH.GIXG TKEN'CIIES I.\ BELGIUM 




Copyright by I'nderwood A: Underwood. N. V. 

A SORTIE OF BELGIAN CAVALRY BEFORE HAELEN 



FIGHTS, FIGHTERS, AND NON-COMBATANTS 



23Q 




Copyright by American Press Association 

BRUSSELS WOMEN WAITING FOR \\T.EKLY .VLLOWANCE OF 50 TO 65 CENTLMES 




Co|Mri^;IU by Underrtood & Underwood, N. V. 

WOMEN AND CHILDREN WAITING FOR MONEY ALLOWED BY THE FRENCH GOVERNMENT 



240 



!•: u R o r E A r w a r 




DEFENDERS OF LIEGE 



Photo by American Press AssociaHon 




^JCJBB|A|^^^^ 








.^- yi _^-^ 


'\.\* 






V. 


^sl 



^■■ivri^hl \:y Internatiunal News >ervi 
THE FRENCH IN ACTION 



, I'r.ss A^s..u.Hi.>l 



FRENCH ARMY IN CAMP 




BELGIAX BATTERY UN THE MARCH 



Copjrij^lit l)j American I'resi .VssociatiL 



FIGHTS, FlCiHTERS, AND N () N - C () M B AT A N T S 241 




Coinriflit by irnilem 1 .V rii.lenraocl, N. V. 

WorXDED r.ERMW CARED FOR BV BELGIANS 



Copvriylit by Underwood A Underwood, N. V. 
AMERICAN RED CROSS NTJRSES 




Copyright by UnderAvood & Underwood. N. V. 
GERMANS CARRYING WOUNDED 



THE FLORENCE NIGHTINGALE OF SERVIA 



242 



EUROPE AT WAR 












Cop\Tii;ht by Underwood & Undenvood, X. Y. 


^^^h&^Wa 


1 


Ml.. :^ 


, ^^^ 




■ ^^ 


liatSA. 


: •• mm ^ 




i" '" 








EX 


— ' — ' — '■ — — ■ ^^l^ — >V:^..' ' — :__::l ■/- v: 



Lupynglii by American Press Association 




Copyright by American Press Association 

.\IDS TO EFFICIENT WARFARE 

FRENCH WATER SUPPLY MOTORS (TOp), BRITISH MAXIM GUN (CENTRE), BELGIAN LIGHT ARTILLERY (BOTTOM) 



BRITISH "WHITE PAPERS 



243 



No. 88 
Sir Edward Grey to Sir E. Goschen 

London, Foreign Office, 
July 29, 1914. 
I told the German Ambassador this afternoon of the in- 
formation that I had received, that Russia had informed 
Germany respecting her mobilization. I also told him of 
the communication made by Count Benckendorff, that the 
Austrian declaration of war manifestly rendered vain any 
direct conversations between Russia and Austria. I said 
that the hope built upon those direct conversations by the 
German Government yesterday had disappeared to-day. 
To-day the German Chancellor was working in the in- 
terest of mediation in Vienna and St. Petersburg. If he 
succeeded, well and good. If not, it was more important 
than ever that Germany should take up what I had sug- 
gested to the German Ambassador this morning, and pro- 
pose some method by which the four Powers should be able 
to work together to keep the peace of Europe. I pointed 
out, however, that the Russian Government, while desirous 
of mediation, regarded it as a condition that the military 
operations against Servia should be suspended. . . . 

No. 89 
Sir Edward Grey to Sir E. Goschen 

London, Foreign OfBce, 

July 29, 1914. 
After speaking to the German Ambassador this afternoon 
about the European situation, I said that . . . the sit- 
uation was very grave. While it was restricted to the issues 
at present actually involved we had no thought of inter- 
fering in it. But if Germany became involved in it, and then 
France, the issue might be so great that it would involve all 
European interests; and I did not wish him to be misled by 
the friendly tone of our conversation — which I hoped 
would continue — into thinking that we should stand aside. 
He said that he quite understood this, but he asked 
whether I meant that we should under certain circum- 
stances intervene. 

I replied that I did not wish to say that, or to use any- 
thing that was like a threat or an attempt to apply pres- 
sure by saying that, if things became worse, we should in- 
tervene. . . . 

No. 90 
Sir Edward Grey to Sir E. Goschen 

London, Foreign Office, 
July 29, 1914. 

[A further conversation with the German Am- 
bassador.] 

. . . I said I had begun to doubt whether even a 
complete acceptance of the Austrian demands by Servia 
would now satisfy Austria. But there appeared, from what 
the Marquis di San GiuUano had said, to be a method by 
which, if the Powers were allowed to have any say in the 
matter, they might bring about complete satisfaction for 
Austria, if only the latter would give them an opportunity. 
. . . The German Ambassador said the view of the 
German Government was that Austria could not by force be 
humiliated, and could not abdicate her position as a Great 
Power. I said I entirely agreed, but it was not a question 
of humiliating Austria, it was a question of how far Austria 
meant to push the humiliation of others. There must, of 
course, be some humihation of Servia, but Austria might 
press things so far as to involve the humiliation of Rus- 
sia. . . . 

No. 9 1 
Sir Edward Grey to Sir M. de Bunsen 

London, Foreign Office, 
July 29, 1914. 

The Austrian Ambassador told me to-day he had ready 
a long memorandum, . . . which he said gave an ac- 



count of the conduct of Servia toward Austria, and an e.T- 
planation of how necessary the Austrian action was. 

I said that I did not wish to discuss the merits of the 
question between Austria and Servia. The news to-day 
seemed to me very bad for the peace of Europe. The 
Powers were not allowed to help in getting satisfaction for 
Austria, which they might get if they were given an oppor- 
tunity, and European peace was at stake. 

Count Mensdorff said that the war with Servia must 
proceed. Austria could not continue to be exposed to the 
necessity of mobiUzing again and again, as she had been 
obUged to do in recent years. She had no idea of territorial 
aggrandizement, and all she wished was to make sure that 
her interests were safeguarded. 

I said that it would be quite possible, without nominally 
interfering with the independence of Servia or taking away 
any of her territory, to turn her into a sort of vassal 
State. . . . 

No. 92 
Sir Edward Grey to Sir R. Rodd 

London, Foreign Office, 
July 29, 1914. 
The Itahan Ambassador made me to-day a communica- 
tion from the Marquis di San GiuUano suggesting that the 
German objections to the mediation of the four Powers, 
a mediation that was strongly favored by Italy, might be 
removed by some change in the form of procedure. 

I said that I had already anticipated this by asking 
the German Government to suggest any form of procedure 
under wliich the idea of mediation between Austria and 
Russia, already accepted by the German Government in 
principle, could be appUed. 

No. 93 
Telegr.4ms Communicated by Count Benckendorpf, 

July 30, 1914 
(i) Russian Ambassador at Vienna to M. Sazonof. 
Vienna, July 15 (28), 1914. 

[The Russian Ambassador at Vienna suggests 
to the Austrian Minister for Foreign Affairs that 
the Russian and Austrian Governments endeavor 
to reach some friendly understanding regarding 
Servia. Count Berchtold agreed in principle, 
but said that Austria could not recede "nor enter 
into any discussion about the terms of the Austro- 
Hungarian note."] 

(2) M. Sazonof to Count Benckendorff 

St. Petersburg, July 16 (29), 1914. 

[The German Ambassador at St. Petersburg 
had given the Russian Foreign Minister assurances 
of Germany's continued efforts for peace at Vi- 
enna. The latter was inclined to be optimistic] 

. . . I said at the same time that we were quite 
ready to accept the proposal for a conference of the four 
Powers, a proposal with which, apparently, Germany was 
not in entire sympathy. . . . 

(3) M. Sazonof to Count Benckendorff. 

St. Petersburg, July 16 (29), 1914. 

At the time of my interview with the German Ambas- 
sador, dealt with in my preceding telegram, I had not yet 
received M. Sch^b^ko's telegram of the 15th (28th) July. 

This telegram reports the refusal of the Vienna Cabinet 
to agree to a direct exchange of views with the Imperial 
Government. 



244 



EUROPE AT WAR 



From now on nothing remains for us to do but to rely 
entire!)' on the British Government to take the initiative in 
the steps which they may consider advisable. 

No. 94 
Sir M. de Bunsen to Sir Edward Grey 

Vienna, July 29, 1914. 
I learn that the mobilization of Russian corps destined 
to carry out operations on Austrian frontier has been 
ordered. My informant is Russian Ambassador. Ministry 
for Foreign Affairs here has realized, though somewhat late 
in the day, that Russia will not remain indifferent in present 
crisis. . . . Unless mediation which German Govern- 
ment declared themselves ready to offer in concert with 
three other Great Powers not immediately, interested in the 
Austro-Scrvian dispute be brought to bear forthwith, ir- 
revocable steps may be taken in present temper of this 
country. . . . Russian Ambassador expressed the hope 
that it might still be possible to arrange matters, and ex- 
plained that it was impossible for Russia to do otherwise 
than take an interest in the present dispute. Russia, he 
said, had done what she could already at Belgrade to induce 
Servian Government to meet principal Austrian demands 
in a favorable spirit; if approached in a proper manner, he 
thought she woilld probably go still further in this direction. 
But she was justly offended at having been completely 
ignored, and she could not consent to be excluded from 
the settlement. German Ambassador said that if proposals 
were put forward which opened any prospect of possible 
acceptances by both sides, he personally thought that 
Germany might consent to act as mediator in concert with 
the three other Powers. . . . 

No. 95 

Sir M. de Bunsen to Sir Edward Grey 

Vienna, July 30, 19 14. 

Russian Ambassador hopes that Russian mobiUzation 
will be regarded by Austria as what it is, viz., a clear inti- 
mation that Russia must be consulted regarding the fate 
of Servia. . . . He says that Russia must have an as- 
surance that Servia will not be crushed. . . . 

Unfortunately the German Ambassador is himself so 
identified with extreme anti-Russian and anti-Servian 
feeUng prevalent in Vienna that he is unhkely to plead the 
cause of peace with entire sincerity. . . . 

No. 96 
Sir M. de Bunsen to Sir Edward Grey 

Vienna, July 30, 1914. 
The Russian Ambassador gave the French Ambassador 
and myself this afternoon at the French Embassy, an ac- 
count of his interview with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, 
which he said was quite friendly. The Minister for Foreign 
Affairs had told him that as Russia had mobilized, Austria 
must, of course, do the same. This, however, should not 
be regarded as a threat, but merely as the adoption of mili- 
tary precautions similar to those which had been taken 
across the frontier. . . . 



Sir G. 



No. 97 
Buchanan to Sir Edward Grey 



St. Petersburg, July 30, 1914. 

Minister for Foreign Affairs said that German Ambas- 
sador had told him yesterday afternoon that German Gov- 
ernment were willing to guarantee that Servian integrity 
would be respected by Austria. To this he had replied 
that tills might be so, but nevertheless Servia would become 
an Austrian vassal. . . . 

M. Sazonof told us that absolute proof was in possession 
of Russian Government that Germany was making mihtary 
and naval preparations against Russia — more particularly 
in the direction of the Gulf of Finland. 

German Ambassador had a second interview with 
Minister for Foreign Affairs at 2 a. m., when former com- 



pletely broke down on seeing that war was inevitable. He 
appealed to M. Sazonof to make some suggestion which he 
could telegraph to German Government as a last hope. 
M. Sazonof accordingly drew up and handed to German 
Ambassador a formula in French, of which following is a 
translation : 

"If Austria, recognizing that her conflict with Servia 
has assumed character of question of European interest, 
declares herself ready to eliminate from her ultimatum 
points which violate principle of sovereignty of Servia, 
Russia engages to stop all mihtary preparations." 

Preparations for general mobilization will be proceeded 
with if tliis proposal is rejected by Austria, and inevitable 
result will be a European war. . . . 

No. 98 
Sir E. Goschen to Sir Edward Grey 

Berlin, July 30, 1914. 

[The German Secretary of State asserted that 
he was making continued efforts at Vienna, now 
suggesting a conference after the occupation of 
Belgrade. He was much disturbed by Russia's 
mobilization, however.] 

No. 99 
Sir F. Bertie to Sir Edward Grey 

Paris, July 30, 1914. 

[In view of the reports regarding Germany's 
demand that Russia cease her mobilization, the 
President of France urged upon the British Am- 
bassador the desirability of England's announcing 
her stand by the side of France. Such a declara- 
tion would very Ukely restrain Germany and 
prevent war.] 

No. 100 
Sir R. Rodd to Sir Edward Grey 

Rome, July 30, 19 14. 
German Ambassador told me last night that he thought 
that Germany would be able to prevent Austria from 
making any exorbitant demands if Servia could be induced 
to submit, and to ask for peace early, say, as soon as the 
occupation of Belgrade had been accomplished. . . . 

No. 101 
Sir Edward Grey to Sir E. Goschen 

London, Foreign Office, 
July 30, 1914. 

His Majesty's Government cannot for a moment enter- 
tain the Chancellor's proposal that they should bind them- 
thcmselves to neutrahty on such terms. 

What he asks us in effect is to engage to stand by while 
French colonies are taken and France is beaten so long as 
Germany does not take French territory as distinct from 
the colonies. 

From the material point of view such a proposal is un- 
acceptable, for France, mthout further territory in Europe 
being taken from her, could be so crushed as to lose her 
position as a Great Power, and become subordinate to 
German policy. 

Altogether apart from that, it would be a disgrace for us 
to make this bargain v\ith Germany at the expense of 
France, a disgrace from which the good name of this country 
would never recover. 

The Chancellor also in effect asks us to bargain away 
whatever obligation or interest we have as regards the 
neutrality of Belgium. We could not entertain that bar- 
gain either. 



BRITISH "WHITE PAPER" 



245 



[Further than this he does not commit himself, 
but urges that Germany and England continue 
to work together for the peace of Europe. He 
liints at the possibility, at some future time, of an 
Anglo-German entente.] 

No. I02 

Sir Edward Grey to Sir E. Goschen 

London, Foreign Office, 
July 30, 1914. 
I have warned Prince Lichnowsky that Germany must 
not count upon our standing aside in all circumstances. 

No. 103 
Sir Edward Grey to Sir'G. Buchanan 

London Foreign Office, 

July, 30, 19 14. 
German Ambassador informs me that German Govern- 
ment would endeavor to influence Austria, after taking 
Belgrade and Servian territory in region of frontier, to 
promise not to advance further while Powers endeavored 
to arrange that Servia should give satisfaction sufficient 
to pacify Austria. . . . 

Russian Ambassador has told me of condition laid down 
by M. Sazonof, as quoted in your telegram of the 30th July 
[No. 97], and fears it cannot be modified; but if Austrian 
advance were stopped after occupation of Belgrade, I 
think Russian Minister for Foreign Affairs' formula might 
be changed to read that the Powers would examine how 
Serv'ia could fully satisfy Austria without impairing Servian 
sovereign rights or independence. . . . 



It is a slender chance of preserving peace, but the only 
one I can suggest if Russian Jlinister for Foreign Affairs can 
come to no agreement at Berlin. You should inform Minis- 
ter for Foreign Affairs. 

No. 104 
Sir Edward Grey to Sir F. BERTrE 

London, Foreign OlTicc, 
July 30, 1914. 
You should inform the Minister for Foreign Affairs of 
my telegram to Sir G. Buchanan of to-day [No. 103], and 
say that I know that he has been urging Russia not to pre- 
cipitate a crisis. I hope he may be able to support this 
last suggestion at St. Petersburg. 

No. los 
Sir Edward Grey to Sir F. Bertie 

London, Foreign Office, 
July 30, 1914. 
M. Cambon reminded me to-day of the letter I had 
written to him two years ago, in which we agreed that, 
if the peace of Europe was seriously threatened, we would 
discuss what we were prepared to do. I inclose for con- 
venience of reference copies of the letter in question and 
of M. Cambon's reply. He said that the peace of Europe 
was never more seriously threatened than it was now. 
He did not wish to ask me to say directly, that we would in- 
tervene, but he would like me to say what we should do if 
certain circumstances arose. The particular hypothesis he 
had in mind was an aggression by Germany on France. 

[There are three enclosures with No. 105. The 
first is a letter from Sir Edward Grey to the French 
Ambassador, dated November 22, 1912, in which 
he agreed that the danger of an attack by a third 
Power should serve as the basis of a conference 



and a discussion as to whether the two nations 
should stand together for the preservation of 
peace. The second enclosure, M. Cambon to 
Sir Edward Grey, dated November 23rd, is a 
formal acknowledgment and agreement in this 
principle. The third enclosure is in the nature of 
evidence of the danger of attack. It is a dispatch 
from the French Foreign Minister to M. Cambon, 
dated July 31, 1914. It reports that the German 
army is on the French frontier and has even pene- 
trated French territory.] 

. . . but the Government wishes to make it clear to 
public opinion and to the British Government tliat in no 
case will France be the aggressor. . . . 

[Specific information follows as to the movement 
of German troops.] 

As you see, Germany has done it. I would add that all 
my information goes to show that the German preparations 
began on Saturday, the very day on wliich the Austrian 
note was handed in. . . . 

No. 106 
Sir R. Rood to Sir Edward Grey 

Rome, July 30, 1914. 

I learned from the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who sent 
for me this evening, that the .Austrian Government had 
declined to continue the direct exchange of views with 
the Russian Government. But he had reason to believe 
that Germany was now disposed to give more conciliatory 
advice to Austria, as she seemed convinced that we should 
act with France and Russia, and was most an.xious to 
avoid issue with us. 

He said he was telegraphing to the Italian Ambassador 
at Berlin to ask the German Government to suggest that 
the idea of an exchange of views between the four Powers 
should be resumed in any form whicli Austria would con- 
sider acceptable. . . . 

[Two or three methods of procedure are sug- 
gested.] 

No. 107 
SiK E. Goschen to Si« Edward Grey 

Berlin, July 30, 1914. 

[The German Government had taken no action 
regarding a conference of the four Powers. The 
German Secretary of State thought time would be 
saved by direct communication with Vienna. 
The Chancellor stated that everything possible 
was being done.] 

No. 108 
Sir E. Goschen to Sir Edward Grey 

Berlin, July 31, 1914. 
Chancellor informs me that his efforts to preach peace 
and moderation at Vienna have been seriously handicapped 
by the Russian mobilization against Austria. He has done 
everything possible to attain his object at Vienna, perhaps 
even rather more tlian was altogether palatable at the 
Ballplatz. 

[Meanwhile, Russian mobilization was forcing 
Germany to act.] 



246 



EUROPE AT WAR 



No. 109 
Sir E. Goschen to Sir Edward Grey 

Berlin, July 31, 1914. 

[He reports the delivery of No. loi, and states 
that the Chancellor, being much occupied, re- 
ceived it without comment.] 

No. no 
Sir Edward Grey to Sir G. Buchanan 

London, Foreign OiEce, 
July 31, 1914. 

I learn from the German Ambassador that, as a result 
of suggestions by the German Government, a conversation 
has taken place at Vienna between the Austrian Minister 
for Foreign Affairs and the Russian Ambassador. The 
Austrian Ambassador at St. Petersburg has also been in- 
structed that he may converse with the Russian Minister 
for Foreign Affairs, and that he should give e.xplanations 
about the Austrian ultimatum to Servia, and discuss sug- 
gestions and any questions directly affecting Austro- 
Russian relations. . . . 

The German Ambassador asked me to urge the Russian 
Government to show good will in the discussions and to 
suspend their military preparations. . . . 

I informed the German Ambassador that, as regards 
military preparations, I did not see how Russia could be 
urged to suspend them unless some limit were put by 
Austria to the advance of her troops into Servia. 

No. Ill 
Sir Edward Grey to Sir E. Goschen 

London, Foreign OfSce, 

July 31, 1914. 

I hope that the conversations which are now proceeding 
between Austria and Russia may lead to a satisfactory re- 
sult. The stumbling block hitherto has been Austrian 
mistrust of Servian assurances and Russian mistrust of 
.Austrian intentions with regard to the independence and 
integrity of Servia. It has occurred to me that, in the event 
of this mistrust preventing a solution being found by 
Vienna and St. Petersburg, Germany might sound Vienna, 
and I would undertake to sound St. Petersburg, whether 
it would be possible for the four disinterested Powers to 
offer to Austria that they would undertake to see that she 
obtained full satisfaction of her demands on Servia, pro- 
vided that they did not impair Servian sovereignty and 
the integrity of Servian territory. . . . 

I said to German Ambassador this morning that if Ger- 
many could get any reasonable proposal put forward which 
made it clear that Germany and Austria were striving to 
preserve European peace, and that Russia and France 
would be unreasonable if they rejected it, I would support 
it at St. Petersburg and Paris, and go the length of saying 
that if Russia and France would not accept it His Majesty's 
Government would have nothing more to do with the con- 
sequences; but, otherwise, I told German Ambassador that 
if France became involved we should be drawn in. . . . 

No. 112 
Sir E. Goschen to Sir Edward Grey 

Berlin, July 31, 1914. 

[The German Chancellor reports that complete 
Russian mobilization is going forward and that 
Germany must follow suit, precautionary meas- 
ures having already been taken.] 

I asked him whether he could not still put pressure on the 
authorities at Vienna to do something in general interests 
to reassure Russia and to show themselves disposed to 
continue discussions on a friendly basis. He replied that 



last night he had begged Austria to reply to your last propo- 
sal, and that he had received a reply to the effect that 
Austrian Minister for Foreign Affairs would take wishes 
of the Emperor this morning in the matter. 

No. 113 
Sir G. Buchanan to Sir Edward Grey 

St. Petersburg, July 31, 1914. 
It has been decided to issue orders for general mobihza- 
tion. 

This decision was taken in consequence of report received 
from Russian Ambassador in Vienna to the effect that 
Austria is determined not to yield to intervention of Powers, 
and that she is moving troops against Russia as well as 
against Servia. 

Russia has also reason to beUeve that Germany is 
making active military preparations, and she cannot afford 
to let her get a start. 

No. 114 
Sir Edward Grey to Sir F. Bertie and Sir E. Goschen 
London, Foreign Office, 

July 31, 1914. 
I still trust situation is not irretrievable, but in view of 
prospect of mobilization in Germany, it becomes essential 
to His Majesty's Government, in view of existing treaties, 
to ask whether French (German) Government is prepared 
to engage to respect neutrality of Belgium so long as no 
other Power violates it. . . . 

No. IIS 
Sir Edward Grey to Sir F. Vn-LiERS 

London, Foreign Ofhce, 
July 31, 1914. 
In view of existing treaties, you should inform Minister 
for Foreign Affairs that, in consideration of the possibility 
of a European war, I have asked French and German Gov- 
ernments whether each is prepared to respect the neutrality 
of Belgium provided it is violated by no other Power. 

You should say that I assume that the Belgian Govern- 
ment will maintain to the utmost of her power her neutral- 
ity, which I desire and expect other Powers to uphold and 
observe. . . . 

No. 116 
Sir Edward Grey to Sir F. Bertie 

London, Foreign Office, 
July 31, 1914. 

[Replying to No. 99, he believes no British 
treaty obligations are involved. He has repeated 
to the French Ambassador that England cannot 
consider intervention at present.] 

No. 117 
Sir F. Bertie to Sir Edward Grey 

Paris, July 31, 1914. 

At 7 o'clock this evening I was sent for by Minister for 
Foreign Affairs. . . . 

German Ambassador had informed his Excellency that, 
in view of the fact that orders had been given for the total 
mobilization of Russian army and fleet, German Govern- 
ment have in an ultimatum which they have addressed 
to the Russian Government required that Russian forces 
should be demobilized. 

The German Government will consider it necessary to 
order the total mobilization of the German Army on the 
Russian and French frontiers if within twelve hours the 
Russian Government do not give an undertaking to comply 
with German demand. 

The Minister for Foreign Affairs asks me to communicate 
this to you, and inquires what, in these circumstances, will 
be the attitude of England. . . . 



BRITISH "WHITE PAPER" 



247 



No. 118 
Snt M. DE BuNSEN TO Snt Edward Grey 

Vienna, July 31, 1914. 
I am informed by Count Forgach, Under Secretary of 
State, that although Austria was compelled to respond to 
Russian mobilization, which he deplored, the Austrian 
Ambassador in London has received instructions to inform 
you that mobilization was not to be regarded as a necessarily 
hostile act on either side. Telegrams were being exchanged 
between the Emperor of Russia and the German Emperor, 
and conversations were proceeding between Austrian Am- 
bassador at St. Petersburg and Russian Minister for 
Foreign 'Affairs. A general war might, he seriously hoped, be 
staved off by these efforts. On my expressing my fear that 
Germany would mobiUze, he said that Germany must do 
something, in his opinion, to secure her position. As re- 
gards Russian intervention on behalf of Servia, Austria- 
Hungary found it difficult to recognize such a claim. . . . 

[He reports the Russian Ambassador in Vienna 
to be working for peace.] 

No. 119 
Snt Edwaed Gkey to Snt F. Bertie 

London, Foreign Office, 
July 31, 1914- 

[He has told M. Cambon that he has declined 
to say to Germany that England would remain 
neutral.] 

I said that we had come to the conclusion in the Cabinet 
to-day that we could not give any pledge at the present 
time. Though we should have to put our policy before 
ParUament, we could not pledge Parliament in advance. 
. . . The preservation of the neutrality of Belgium 
might be, I would not say a decisive, but an important 
factor, in determining our attitude. . . . 

No. 120 
Sir G. Buchanan to Sir Edward Grey 

St. Petersburg, July 31, 1914. 

Minister for Foreign Affairs sent for me and French Am- 
bassador and asked us to telegraph to our respective Gov- 
ernments subjoined formula as best calculated to amal- 
gamate proposal made by you in your telegram of 30th 
July (No. 103], with formula recorded in my telegram of 
30th July [No. 97]. He trusted it would meet with your 
approval. 

"If Austria will agree to check the advance of her troops 
on Servian territory; if recognizing that the dispute be- 
tween Austria and Servia has assumed a character of 
European interest, she will allow the Great Powers to look 
into the matter and determine whether Servia could satisfy 
the Austro-Hungarian Government without impairing her 
rights as a sovereign State or her independence, Russia 
will undertake to maintain her waiting attitude." . . . 

M. Sazonof said that imdoubtedly there would be better 
prospect of a peaceful solution if the suggested conversation 
were to take place in London, where the atmosphere was 
far more favorable, and he therefore hoped that you would 
see your way to agreeing to this. . . . 

No. 121 
Snt E. GoscHEN to Sis Edward Grey 

Berlin, July 31, 1914. 
I spent an hour with Secretary of State urging him most 
earnestly to accept your proposal [See No. iii], and make 
another effort to prevent terrible catastrophe of a European 
war. 

He expressed himself very sympathetically toward your 
proposal, and appreciated your continued efforts to main- 



tain peace, but said it was Impossible for the Imperial 
Government to consider any proposal until they had re- 
ceived an answer from Russia to their communication of 
to-day; this communication, which he admitted had the 
form of an ultimatum, being that, unless Russia could in- 
form the Imperial Government within twelve hours that 
she would immediately countermand her mobilization 
against Germany and .\ustria, Germany would be obUged 
on her side to mobilize at once. . . . 

[He insisted that Germany had not ceased to 
labor with Austria for peace, but that "Russia's 
mobilization has spoiled everything."] 

No. 122 

Sir E. Goschen to Sir Edward Grey 

Berlin, July 31, 1914. 

Neutrality of Belgium, referred to in your telegram of 
31st July to Sir F. Bertie (No. 114]. 

I have seen Secretary of State, who informs me that he 
must consult the Emperor and the Chancellor before he 
could possibly answer. I gathered from what he said that 
he thought any reply they might give could not but disclose 
a certain amount of their plan of campaign in the event of 
war ensuing, and he was therefore very doubtful whether 
they would return any answer at all. . . . 

It appears from what he said that German Government 
consider that certain hostile acts have already been com- 
mitted by Belgium. As an instance of this, he alleged 
that a consignment of corn for Germany had been placed 
under an embargo already. . . . 

No. 123 
Sir Edward Grey to Sir E. Goschen 

London, Foreign Office, 
August I, 1914. 

I told the German Ambassador to-day that the reply 
[No. 122] of the German Government with regard to the 
neutraUty of Belgium was a matter of very great regret, 
because the neutrality of Belgium affected feeling in this 
country. If Germany could see her way to give the same 
assurance as that which had been given by France, it would 
materially contribute to relieve anxiety and tension here. 
On the other hand, if there were a violation of the neutral- 
ity of Belgium by one combatant while the other respected 
it, it would be extremely difficult to restrain pubUc feeling 
in this country. . . . 

He asked me whether, if Germany gave a promise not 
to violate Belgium neutrality, we would engage to remain 
neutral. 

I replied that I could not say that; our hands were still 
free, and we were considering what our attitude should be. 

The Ambassador pressed me as to whether I could not 
formulate conditions on which we would remain neutral. 
He even suggested that the integrity of France and her 
colonies might be guaranteed. 

I said that I felt obUged to refuse definitely any promise 
to remain neutral on similar terms, and I could only say 
that we must keep our hands free. 

No. 124 
Sir F. Bertie to Sir Edward Grey 

Paris, July 31, 1914. 
On the receipt at 8:30 to-night of your telegram of this 
afternoon [No. 114], I sent a message to Minister for For- 
eign Affairs requesting to see him. . . . 

He told me that a communication had been made to you 
by the German Ambassador in London of the intention of 
Germany to order a general mobilization of her army if 
Russia do not demobilize at once. He is urgently anxious 
as to what the attitude of England will be in the circum- 
stances. . . . 



248 



EUROPE AT WAR 



No. 125 
Ser F. Bertie to Sir Edward Grey 

Paris, July 31, 19 14. 

Political Director has brought me the reply of the IVIinis- 
ter of Foreign Affairs to your inquiry respecting the neu- 
trality of Belgium. It is as follows: 

French Government are resolved to respect the neutrality 
of Belgium, and it would only be in the event of some other 
Power violating that ncutrahty that France might find her- 
self under the necessity, in order to assure defense of her 
her own security, to act otherwise. This assurance has been 
given several times. President of the Republic spoke of it 
to the King of the Belgians, and the French Minister at 
Brussels has spontaneously renewed the assurance to the 
Belgian Minister for Foreign Affairs to-day. 

No. 126 
Sir F. Bertie to Sir Edward Grey 

Paris, August i, 1914. 
I have had convei-sation with the Political Director, who 
Btates that the German Ambassador was informed that it 
. . . seemed strange to the French Government that in 
view of the fact that Russia and Austria were ready to con- 
verse, the German Government should have at that moment 
presented an ultimatum at St. Petersburg requiring immedi- 
ate demobilization by Russia. There were no differences at 
issue between France and Germany, but the German Am- 
bassador had made a menacing communication to the 
French Government and had requested an answer the ne.xt 
day,intimating that he would have to break off relationsand 
leave Paris if the reply were not satisfactorj'. The Ambas- 
sador was informed that the French Government considered 
that this was an extraordinary proceecUng. . . . 

No. 127 
Sir M. de Bunsen to Sir Edward Grey 

Vienna, August i, 1914. 
General mobiUzation of army and fleet. 

No. 1 28 
Sir F. Viliiers to Sir Edward Grey 

Brussels, August i, 1914. 
. . . Belgium expects and desires that other Powers 
will observe and uphold her neutrality, which she intends 
to maintain to the utmost of her power. In so informing 
me. Minister for Foreign Affairs said that, in the event of 
the violation of the neutrahty of their territory, they be- 
lieved that they were in a position to defend themselves 
against intrusion. . . . 

No. 129 
Minister op State, Litxemburg, to Sir Edward Grey 
Luxemburg, August 2, 19 14. 
The Luxemburg Minister of State has just received 
through the German Minister in Luxemburg, M. de Buch, a 
telegram from the Chancellor of the German Empire, 
Bethmann-IIoUweg, to the effect that the miUtary measures 
taken in Luxemburg do not constitute a hostile act against 
Luxemburg, but are only intended to insure against a pos- 
sible attack of a French army. Full compensation will be 
paid to Luxemburg for any damage caused by using the 
railways, which are leased to the Empire. 

No. 130 
Snt Edward Grey to Sir E. Goschen 

London, Foreign Office, 

.\ugust I, 1914. 
We are informed that authorities at Hamburg have for- 
cibly detained steamers belonging to the Great Central 
Company and other British merchant ships. 

I cannot ascertain on what grounds the detention of 
British ships has been ordered. 

You should request German Government to send im- 



niechate orders that they should be allowed to proceed 
without delay. The effect on public opinion here will be 
deplorable unless this is done. . . . 

No. 131 
Sir Edward Grey to Sir E. Goschen 

London, Foreign Office, 

August I, 1914. 
I stUl believe that it might be possible to secure peace 
if only a httle respite in time can be gained before any great 
Power begins war. 

The Russian Government has communicated to me the 
readiness of Austria to discuss with Russia and the readiness 
of Austria to accept a basis of mediation which is not open 
to the objections raised in regard to the formula which 
Russia originally suggested. 

Things ought not to be hopeless so long as Austria and 
Russia are ready to converse, and I hope that German Gov- 
ernment may be able to make use of the Russian com- 
munications referred to above, in order to avoid ten- 
sion. . . . 

No. 132 
Sir Edward Grey to Sir E. Goschen 

London, Foreign Office, 

August I, 1914. 
Following telegram from M. Sazonof to Count Bencken- 
dorff of the 31st July communicated to me to-day: 

[Same formula as in No. 120.] 

(.•\bove communicated to all the Powers.) 

No. 133 
Sir Edv/ard Grey to Sir E. Goschen 

London, Foreign Office, 
August I, 1914. 
M. De Etter came to-day to communicate the contents 
of a telegram from M. Sazonof, dated the 31st July, wlrich 
are as follows: 

"The .Austro-Hungarian Ambassador declares the readi- 
ness of his Government to discuss the substance of the 
Austrian ultimatum to Servia. M. Sazonof replied by ex- 
pressing his satisfaction, and said it was desirable that the 
discussions should take place in London with the partici- 
pation of the Great Powers. 

"M. Sazonof hoped that the British Government would 
assume the chrection of these discussions. The whole of 
Europe would be thankful to them. It would be very im- 
portant that Austria should meanwhile put a stop provi- 
sionally to her mihtary action on Servian territory." 
(The above has been communicated to the six Powers.) 

No. 134 
Sir F. Bertie to Sir Edward Grey 

Paris, August i, 1914. 
President of the Republic has informed me that German 
Government were trying to saddle Russia with the re- 
sponsibility; that it was only after a decree of general 
mobilization had been issued in Austria that the Emperor 
of Russia ordered a general mobiUzation; that, although 
the measures which the German Government have already 
taken are in effect a general mobilization, they are not so 
designated; that a French general mobilization will become 
necessarj' in self-defense, and that France is already forty- 
eight hours behind Germany as regards German military 
preparations; that the French troops have orders not to go 
nearer to the German frontier than a distance of ten kilo- 
meters so as to avoid any grounds for accusations of pro- 
vocation to Germany, whereas the German troops, on the 
other hand, are actually on the French frontier and have 
made incursions on it; that, notwithstanding mobilizations, 
the Emperor of Russia has expressed himself ready to con- 
tinue liis co;ive"sations with the German Ambassador with 



BRITISH "WHITE PAPER" 



249 



a view to preserving the peace; that French Government, 
whose wishes are markedly pacific, sincerely desire the pres- 
ervation of peace and do not quite despair, even now, of 
its being possible to avoid war. 

No. 13s 
Sir Edward Grey to Sir G. Buchanan 

London, Foreign 0£Bce, 

August I, 1914. 

Information reaches me from a most reliable source that 
Austrian Government have informed German Government 
that, though the situation has been changed by the mobi- 
lization of Russia, they would, in full appreciation of the 
efforts of England for the preservation of peace, be ready to 
consider favorably my proposal for mediation between 
Austria and Servia. The understanding of this acceptance 
would naturally be that the Austrian military action against 
Servia would continue for the present, and that the British 
Government would urge upon Russian Government to stop 
the mobilization of troops directed against Austria, in 
which case Austria would naturally cancel those defensive 
military counter-measures in Galicia, which have been 
forced upon Austria by Russian mobilization. 

You should inform Minister for Foreign Affairs and say 
that if, in the consideration of the acceptance of mediation 
by Austria, Russia can agree to stop mobilization, it ap- 
pears stUl to be possible to preserve peace. . . . 

No. 136 
Sir F. Bertie to Sir Edward Grey 

Paris, August I, 1914. 
Minister of War informed Military .Attache this after- 
noon that orders had been given at 3:40 for a general mobi- 
lization of the French Army. . . . 

[Details of the German mobilization foUow.] 

. . . The French forces on the frontier have opposed 
to them eight army corps on a war footing, and an attack is 
expected at any moment. . . . The French troops will 
not attack, and the Minister of War is anxious that it 
should be explained that this act of mobilization is one for 
purely defensive purposes. 

No. 137 
Sir Edward Grey to Sir M. de Bunsen 

London, Foreign Office, 

August I, 1914. 
I sav/ the Austro-Hungarian Ambassador this morning. 
He supplied me with the substance of a telegram which 
the Austro-Hungarian Minister for Foreign .Affairs had sent 
to the Austrian Ambassador in Paris. In this telegram His 
Excellency was given instructions to assure the French 
Minister for Foreign Affairs that there was no intention 
in the minds of the .\ustro-Hungarian Government to im- 
pair the sovereign rights of Servia or to obtain territorial 
aggrandizement. . . . 

Count Mensdorff informed me of a telegram sent yester- 
day to the Austro-Hungarian Ambassador at St. Peters- 
burg by Count Berchtold, and gave me the substance. 

[It asserted that the conversations with Russia 
had not been broken off by Austria and repeated 
that Austria did not seek territorial acquisitions 
from Servia.] 

No. 138 
Sir E. Goschen to Sir Edward Grey 

Berlin, August i, 1914. 
I have communicated the substance of your telegram 
[No. 131) to the Secretary of State for Foreign .Affairs, and 
spent a long time arguing with him that the chief dispute 



was between Austria and Russia, and that Germany was 
only drawn in as Austria's ally. If, therefore, Austria and 
Russia were, as was evident, ready to discuss matters and 
Germany did not desire war on her own account, it seemed 
to me only logical that Germany should hold her hand and 
continue to work for a peaceful settlement. Secretary of 
State for Foreign Affairs said that Austria's readiness to 
discuss was the result of German influence at Vienna, and, 
had not Russia mobiUzed against Germany, all would have 
been well. But Russia, by abstaining from answering Ger- 
many's demand that she should demobilize, had caused 
Germany to mobihze also. . . . 

The situation now was that, though the Imperial Govern- 
ment had allowed her several hours beyond the specified 
time, Russia had sent no answer. Germany had, therefore, 
ordered mobihzation, and the German representative at 
St. Petersburg had been instructed within a certain time 
to inform the Russian Government that the Imperial Gov- 
ernment must regard their refusal to answer as creating a 
state of war. 

No. 139 
Sir G. Buchanan to Sir Edward Grey 

St. Petersburg, Aug. i, 1914. 

[He reports diplomatic exchanges in St. Peters- 
burg which amounted to marking time. He also 
reports a conversation with M. Sazonof in which 
the latter sought to justify Russia's position, ac- 
cusing Austria of double dealing, and saying that 
"it was, in fact, for Russia a question of life and 
death." He was "completely weary with the 
ceaseless endeavors he had made to avoid a war." 
Russia had been patient, but had been forced to 
act.] 

M. Sazonof added that the formula, of which the text is 
contained in my telegram of 31st July [No. 120] had been 
forwarded by the Russian Government to Vienna, and he 
would adhere to it if you could obtain its acceptance before 
the frontier was crossed by German troops. In no case 
would Russia begin hostilities first. 

I now see no possibility of a general war being avoided 
unless the agreement of France and Germany can be ob- 
tained to keep their armies mobilized on their own sides of 
the frontier, as Russia has ex-pressed her readiness to do, 
pending a last attempt to reach a settlement of the present 
crisis. 

No. 140 
Sir F. Bertie to Sir Edward Grey 

Paris, August I, 1914. 

[He reports the French military situation as 
given by the Minister of War to the military 
attache, offering "proof of the French endeavors 
to commit no provocative act."] 

No. 141 
Sir M. de Bunsen to Sir Edward Grey 

Vienna, August i, 1914. 
[He reports that the Russian Ambassador has 
informed him of Germany's ultimatum and says 
that "there seems to be even greater tension 
between Germany and Russia than between 
Austria and Russia."] 

. . . I agree with His Excellency that the German 
Ambassador at Vienna desired war from the first, and that 



250 



EUROPE AT WAR 



his strong personal bias probably colored his action here. 
The Russian Ambassador is convinced that the German 
Government also desired war from the first. ... I 
fear that nothing can alter the determination of Austro- 
Hungarian Government to proceed on their present course if 
they have made up their mind with the approval of Germany. 

No. 142 
Sir E. Goschen to Sir Edward Grey 

Berlin, August i, 1914. 
Orders have just been issued for the general mobilization 
of the navy and army, the first day of mobihzation to be 
2nd Augxist. 

No. 143 
Sis E. Goschen to Sir Edward Grey 

BerUn, August i, 1914. 
Detention of British merchant ships at Hamburg. . . 
Secretary of State, who expressed the greatest surprise 
and annoyance, has promised to send orders at once to allow 
steamers to proceed without delay. 

No. 144 
Sir E. Goschen to Sir Edward Grey 

Berlin, August 2, 1914. 
Secretary of State has just informed me that, owing to 
certain Russian troops having crossed the frontier, Ger- 
many and Russia are now in a state of war. 

No. 14s 
Sir E. Goschen to Sir Edward Grey 

Berlin, August 2, 1914. 
Secretary of State informs me that orders were sent 
last night to allow British ships in Hamburg to proceed on 
their way. He says that this must be regarded as a special 
favor to His Majesty's Government, as no other foreign 
ships have been allowed to leave. Reason of detention was 
that mines were being laid and other precautions being taken. 

No. 146 
Sir F. Villiers to Sir Edward Grey 

Brussels, August 2, 1914. 
The news that a German force has entered Grand Duchy 
Lu.xemburg has been oflicially confirmed to the Belgian 
Government. 

No. 147 
Minister of State, Luxemburg, to Sir Edward Grey 
Luxemburg, Aug. 2, 1914. 

[The notice of a formal protest to Germany, 
against the violation of neutrality is communi- 
cated to the Powers.] 

No. 148 
Sir Edward Grey to Sir F. Bertie 

London, Foreign OfBce, 
August 2, 1914. 
After the Cabinet this morning I gave M. Cambon the 
following memorandum: 

"I am authorized to give an assurance that, if the Ger- 
man fleet comes into the Channel or through the North 
Sea to undertake hostile operations against French coasts 
or shipping, the British fleet will give aU the protection in 
its power. 

"This assurance is of course subject to the policy of His 
Majesty's Government receiving the support of Parliament, 
and must not be taken as binding His Majesty's Govern- 
ment to take any action until the above contingency of 
action by the German fleet takes place." 

[Sir Edward refrained from binding Great 
Britain to any agreement regarding war, but 



offered assurances that would enable France to 
know how to dispose her fleet. He said that Eng- 
land's position regarding the violation of Belgian 
neutrality was being considered.] 



No. 149 
Sir Edward Grey to Sir E. 



Goschen 



London, Foreign Oflace, 
August 2, 1914. 

I regret to learn that 100 tons of sugar was compulsorily 
unloaded from the British steamship Sappho at Hamburg 
and detained. Similar action appears to have been taken 
with regard to other British vessels loaded with sugar. 

You should inform Secretary of State that, for reasons 
stated in my telegram of ist August [No. 130], I most 
earnestly trust that the orders already sent to Hamburg 
to allow the clearance of British ships cover also the release 
of their cargoes, the detention of which cannot be justified. 

No. 150 
Sir E. Goschen to Sir Edward Grey 

Berlin, August 3, 1914. 
Detention of British ships at Hamburg. 
No information available. 

No. 151 
Sir F. Villiers to Sir Edward Grey 

Brussels, August 3, 1914. 
French Government have offered through their MiUtary 
Attach^ the support of five French Army corps to the 
Belgian Government. . . . 

[Belgium's reply of thanks is appended.] 

No. 152 
Sir Edward Grey to Sir F. Bertie 

London, Foreign Office, 
August 3. 1914. 

On the I St instant the French Ambassador made the 
following communication: 

"In reply to the German Government's intimation of 
the fact that ultimatums had been presented to France 
and Russia, and to tlie question as to what were the inten- 
tions of Italy, the Marquis di San Giuliano replied: 

" 'The war undertaken by Austria, and the consequences 
which might result, had, in the words of the German Am- 
bassador himself, an aggressive object. Both were there- 
fore in conflict with the purely defensive character of the 
Triple Alliance, and in such circumstances Italy would re- 
main neutral.' " 

In making this communication, M. Cambon was in- 
structed to lay stress upon the Italian declaration that the 
present war was not a defensive but an aggressive war, 
and that, for this reason, the casus Jmderis under the terms 
of the Triple AUiance did not arise. 

No. 153 
Sir Edward Grey to Sir E. Goschen 

London, Foreign Office, 

August 4, 1914. 
The King of the Belgians has made an appeal to His 
Majesty the King for diplomatic intervention on behalf of 
Belgium in the following terms: 

" Remembering the numerous proofs of Your Majesty's 
friendship and that of your predecessor, and the friendly 
attitude of England in 1870, and the proof of friendship 
you have just given us again, I make a supreme appeal to 
the diplomatic intervention of Your Majesty's Government 
to safeguard the integrity of Belgium." 

His Majesty's Government are also informed that the 



GERMAN "WHITE PAPER" 



251 



German Government has delivered to the Belgian Govern- 
ment a note proposing friendly neutrality entailing free pas- 
sage through Belgian territory, and promising to maintain 
the independence and integrity of the kingdom and its pos- 
sessions at the conclusion of peace, threatening in case 
of refusal to treat Belgium as an enemy. An answer was 
requested within twelve hours. 

Wealsoimderstandthat Belgium has categorically refused 
this as a flagrant violation of the law of nations. 

His Majesty's Government are bound to protest against 
this violation of a treaty to which Germany is a party in 
common with themselves, and must request an assurance 
that the demand made upon Belgium will not be pro- 
ceeded with, and that her neutrality will be respected by 
Germany. . . . 

No. IS4 
Sir F. Villiers to Sir Edward Grey 

Brussels, August 4, 1914. 
German Minister has this morning addressed note to 
Minister for Foreign Affairs stating that as Belgian Govern- 
ment have declined the ; well-intentioned proposals sub- 
mitted to them by the Imperial Government, the latter will, 
deeply to their regret, be compelled to carry out, if neces- 
sary by force of arms, the measures considered indispen- 
sable in view of the French menaces. 

No. iss 
Sir Edward Grey to Sir F. Villiers 

London, Foreign Ofiice, 

August 4, 1914. 
You shoiUd inform Belgian Government that if pressure 
is applied to them by Germany to induce them to depart 
from neutrality. His Majesty's Government expect that 
they will resist by any means in their power, and that His 
Majesty's Government will support them in offering such 
resistance, and that His Majesty's Government in this 
event are prepared to join Russia and France, if desired, 
in offering to the Belgian Government at once common 
action for the purpose of resisting use of force by Germany 
against them, and a guarantee to maintain their indepen- 
dence and integrity in future years. 

No. 156 
Sir Edward Grey to Sir E. Goschen 

London, Foreign OfEce, 
August 4, 1914. 
I continue to receive numerous complaints from British 
firms as to the detention of their ships at Hamburg, Cux- 



haven, and other German ports. This action on the part of 
the German authorities is totally unjustifiable. It is in 
direct contravention of international law and of the as- 
surances given to Your Excellency by the Imperial Chan- 
cellor. You should demand the immediate release of all 
British ships if such release has not yet been given. 

No. 157 

German Foreign Secretary to Prince Lichnowsky 

(Communicated by German Embassy, August 4.) 

Berlin, August 4, 1914- 

Please dispel any mistrust that may subsist on the part 

of the British Government with regard to our intentions, 

by repeating most positively formal assurance that, even 

in the case of armed conflict with Belgium, Germany will, 

under no pretense whatever, annex Belgian territory. . . . 

Germany had to disregard Belgian neutrality, it being for 

her a question of Ufe or death to prevent French advance. 

No. 158 
Sir F. Villiers to Sir Edward Grey 

Brussels, August 4, 1914- 
MiUtary Attache has been informed at War Office that 
German troops have entered Belgian territory, and that 
Lifige has been summoned to surrender by small party of 
Germans who, however, were repulsed. 

No. 159 
Sir Edward Grey to Sir E. Goschen 

London, Foreign Office, 
August 4, 19 14. 

We hear that Germany has addressed note to Belgian 
^Minister for Foreign Affairs stating that German Govern- 
ment will be compelled to carry out, if necessary by force 
of arms, the measures considered indispensable. 

We are also informed that Belgian territory has been 
violated at Gemmenich. 

In these circumstances, and in view of the fact that Ger- 
many declined to give the same assurance respecting Bel- 
gium as France gave last week in reply to our request made 
simultaneously at Berlin and Paris, we must repeat that 
request, and ask that a satisfactory reply to it and to my 
telegram of this morning [No. 153] be received here by 
12 o'clock to-night. If not, you are instructed to ask for 
your passports, and to say that His Majesty's Government 
feel bound to take all steps in their power to uphold the 
neutrality of Belgium and the observance of a treaty to 
which Germany is as much a party as ourselves. 



(< 



THE GERMAN WHITE PAPER' 



THIS document, which is offered here in an abridged form, was given out by the German 
Foreign Office on August 3rd, and appeared in the New York Times August 24th. It com- 
prises some 15,000 words in the original and is not merely a collection of correspondence like 
the British "White Paper," but is also an official revaew of the causes of the war. It presents 
Germany's version of the crisis and includes a portion of the correspondence between the German 
Government and its representatives in foreign capitals. It brings the history of German negotiations 
down to August 2nd. 

TEXT OF THE GERMAN "WHITE PAPER" 



On June 28 last the successor to the Austrian throne, 
Archduke Franz Ferdinand, and his wife, the Duchess of 
Hohenberg, were assassinated by the revolver shots of a 
member of a Servian band of conspirators. An investiga- 
tion of the crime by Austro-Hungarian oflicials has revealed 
that the plot to take the life of the Archduke was planned 
and promoted in Belgrade with the cooperation of official 



Servian individuals, and was carried out with weapons from 
the Servian Government depot. 

This crime was bound to open the eyes of the whole 
civihzed world, not only with regard to the object of Ser- 
vian politics as relating to the existence and integrity of the 
Austro-Hungarian monarchy, but also with regard to the 
criminal means that the Pan-Servian propaganda did not 



252 



EUROPE AT WAR 



hesitate to employ in order to attain these ends. The 
ultimate object of these policies was to revolutionize gradu- 
dually and finally to bring about a separation of the south- 
western region of the Austro-Hungarian monarchy from 
that empire and unite it with Servia. 

The repeated and formal declarations of Servia to Aus- 
tria-Hungary to bring about good neighborly relations did 
not change this trend of Servian politics in the least. For 
the third time in the course of the last si.x years, Servia has 
brought Europe to the verge of a world war in this manner. 
She could only do this because she believed herself sup- 
ported by Russia in her endeavors. 

[Russia is accused of a secret alliance with the 
Balkan States.] 

. . . It was the idea of Russian statesmen that there 
should be formed a new Balkan League under Russian 
patronage, whose activities should be directed this time 
not against Turkey, which had been driven from the 
Balkans, but against the existence of the Austro-Hungarian 
monarchy. . . . 

[Details of Russia's alleged programme follow.] 

In view of these circumstances Austria had to admit 
that it would not be consistent either with the dignity 
or self-preservation of the monarchy to look on longer 
at the operations on the other side of the border without 
taking action. . . . We were able to assure our ally 
most heartily of our agreement with her view of the situa- 
tion and to assure her that any action that she might con- 
sider it necessary to take in order to put an end to the 
movement in Servia directed against the existence of the 
Austro-Hungarian Monarchy would receive our approval. 
We were fully aware in this connection that war-like moves 
on the part of Austria-?Iungary against Servia would 
bring Russia into the question and might draw us into a 
war in accordance with our duties as an ally. However, 
recognizing the vital interests of Austria-Hungary which 
were at stake, we could neither advise our ally to a com- 
pliance that would have been inconsistent with her dignity 
nor could we deny her our support in this great hour of need. 
We were all the more unable to do this inasmuch as our 
interests also were seriously threatened as a result of the 
continuous Servian agitation. If Servia, with the help of 
Russia and France, had been allowed to imperil the exist- 
ence of the neighboring monarchy any longer, this would 
lead to the gradual downfall of Austria and would result in 
submission to Slavic sway under the Russian sceptre, thus 
making the position of the Germanic race in Central 
Europe untenable. A morally weakened Austria breaking 
down as the result of the advance of Russian Pan-Slavism 
would no longer be an ally on whom we could count and 
upon whom we could rely, such as we need in view of the 
attitude of our eastern and western neighbors, which has 
constantly grown more threatening. We therefore gave 
Austria an entirely free hand in her action against Servia. 
Wc have taken no part in the preparations. . . 

[The story follows of the exchange of notes be- 
tween Austria and Servia and Austria's refusal to 
accept Servia's reply as satisfactory.] 

From the very beginning of the conflict we took the 
stand that this was an affair of Austria which she alone 
would have to bring to a decision with Servia. We have 
therefore devoted our entire efforts to localizing the war 
and to convincing the other powers that .Austria-Hungary 
was compelled to take justified defensive methods and 
appeal to arms. . . . 

[Austria, the statement goes on to say, explained 
her case to Russia while Germany sought the aid 



of France and England in an effort to localize the 
approacliing conflict. "These efforts did not suc- 
ceed in preventing Russia's interference in the 
Austro-Servian disagreement."] 

The Russian Government issued an official communique 
on July 24, according to which it would be impossible for 
Russia to remain indifferent in the Servian-Austrian con- 
flict. . . . 

[Austria-Hungary again disclaimed any desire 
to acquire territory, but on the 26th the news of 
Russian mobilization came and was communi- 
acted by Germany to the Powers.] 

. . . The same day the Imperial Ambassador at 
St. Petersburg was directed to make the following state- 
ment to the Russian Government: 

"The military preparatory measures of Russia will com- 
pel us to take counter-action which must consist in the 
mobilization of the army. Mobilization, however, in- 
dicates war. Inasmuch as we know France's obligations 
toward Russia, this mobilization would be directed simul- 
taneously against Russia and France. We cannot assume 
that Russia wishes to let loose such a European war. 
Inasmuch as Austria-Hungary will not impair the con- 
tinuance of the Servian Kingdom, we are of the opinion 
that Russia can adopt a policy of waiting. . . ." 

[In spite of denials at St. Petersburg, reports of 
Russian mobilization on a large scale continued 
to arrive in Berlin.] 

. . . On July 27 the first reports of preparatory 
measures by France arrived. The Fourteenth Corps dis- 
continued its manoeuvres and returned to garrison duty. 

In the meantime we continued to exert our most ener- 
getic influence on the Cabinets to insure the localization 
of the conflict. 

On the 26th Sir Edward Grey had suggested that the 
differences between Austria-Hungary and Servia be laid 
before a conference of the Ambassadors of Germany, 
France, and Italy, with himself presiding over the sessions. 
To this suggestion we replied that, while we approved his 
tender, we could not take part in such a conference because 
we could not call upon Austria to appear before a Eu- 
ropean court in her controversy with Servia. 

France agreed to Sir Edward Grey's proposal, but it 
was finally brought to naught because Austria, as was to be 
expected, held herself aloof. 

[Germany, believing mediation out of the 
question between Austria and Servia, continued 
her efforts to keep the peace between Russia and 
Austria and further agreed to transmit to Vienna 
Sir Edward Grey's proposal that the Servian note 
serve as a basis for further conversations. Aus- 
tria replied that it was too late, hostilities having 
already begun.] 

. . . Unluckily all of these mediatory acts were soon 
overtaken by the mihtary preparations of Russia and 
France. On July 29 the Russian Government officially 
announced in Berlin that it had mobihzed four army dis- 
tricts. At the same time additional reports reached us 
of rapidly progressing military preparations by France on 
land and sea. On the same day the Imperial Ambassador 
at St. Petersburg had a conversation with the Russian 
Minister for Foreign Aflairs concerning which he reported 
as follows by telegraph: 



GERMAN "WHITE PAPER" 



253 



"The Minister tried to persuade me to agree in behalf 
of my Government to a conversation of four parties to 
devise means of moving Austria-Hungary to give up those 
demands toucliing on tlie sovereignty of Servia. Wliile 
I agreed to a complete transmission of the conversation, 
I took the stand that, since Russia liad decided on the 
ominous step of mobilization, it was difficult for me to 
exchange any opinions on tliis subject. ... I said an 
opportunity should be given the Dual Monarchy to settle 
her dispute with Servia alone. There would be time enough 
to come back to the subject of safeguarding Servian sov- 
ereignty when peace terms were to be concluded. 

"I added very earnestly that at the present moment 
the Austro-Servian affair was secondary to the danger of 
a European conflagration, and I made every ellort to show 
the Minister the greatness of this danger. 

"It was impossible to change Sazonof's mind on the 
point that Russia could not desert Servia now." 

[On the 29th the German Military Attache at 
St. Petersburg reported that the Chief of the 
General Staff of the Russian Army had again de- 
nied that Russia was mobilizing. The same day 
Austria was urged to open direct conversations 
with M. Sazonof.] 

Shoulder to shoulder with England we continued to work 
without cessation for mediation, and supported every 
suggestion in Vienna which we believed showed hope of 
the possibiUty of a peaceful settlement of the conflict. 
As late as the 30th we transmitted an English proposal 
to Vienna which established this basis of negotiation, that 
Austria-Hungary after succeeding in marching into Servia, 
should dictate her terms there. We had to assume that 
Russia would accept this basis. 

[Meanwhile proofs of Russian mobilization 
measures became more convincing, and finally 
"Russia ordered a general mobilization."] 

On the same day an exchange of telegrams took place 
between His Majesty the Kaiser and King and Czar 
Nicholas, in which His Majesty called the Czar's attention 
to tlie threatening character of the Russian mobilization 
and to the continuance of his own activity as mediator. 
[Annex 20 to 23.] 

On July 31 the Czar directed the following telegram to 
His Majesty. 

" I thank you from my heart for your mediation, which 
permits a gleam of hope that everything can yet be settled 
peaceably. It is a technical impossibiUty for us to halt our 
military preparations which became necessary through 
Austria's mobilization. We are far from desirous of war. 
So long as the negotiations continue with Austria concern- 
ing Servia, my troops will not undertake any challenging 
action. I solemnly pledge you my word as to that. I 
am trusting in the grace of God with all my might and hope 
for the success of your mediation in Vienna, for the welfare 
of oiu- comitries and for the peace of Europe. 
"Yours sincerely devoted, 

" Nicholas." 

To tliis His Majesty the Kaiser repUcd : 

" Upon your appeal to my friendship and your plea for 
my help I have undertaken a mediatory action between 
your Govermnent and the Austro-Hungarian Government. 
While this negotiation was under way your troops were mo- 
bilized against Austria-Hungary, which is alUed with me, 
as a consequence of which my mediation was almost made 
illusory, as I have already informed you. Notwithstanding 
this, I continued it. Now I am in receipt of reliable re- 
ports of serious preparations for war on my eastern boun- 
dary also. Responsibihty for the safety of my empire 



compels me to take counter defensive measures. I have 
carried my efforts for the maintenance of world peace to 
the utmost Umit. It is not I that bear the responsibility 
for the calamity that now threatens the entire civiUzed 
world. Yet at this moment it lies in your power to stave 
it off. No one threatens the honor and might of Russia, 
wliich might have awaited the result of my mediation 
. . . It is still possible for you to maintain the peace of 
Europe if Russia will decide to put a stop to the military 
measures that threaten Germany and Austria- Hungary." 
Even before this telegram reached its destination the 
mobilization of the entire Russian figliting force, wliich had 
been ordered in the forenoon of the same day, openly 
directed against us, was in full swing. The Czar's telegram 
however, was sent at 2 o'clock in the afternoon. 

[On July 31st Germany sent an ultimatum to 
Russia, stating that she would be forced to mobil- 
ize her army if Russia did not cease mobUization 
within twelve hours, "and so advise Germany."] 

At the same time the Imperial Aml^assador at Paris was 
directed to request an e.xijlanation from the French Gov- 
ernment witliin eighteen hours as to whether, in the case of 
a Russo-German war, France would remain neutral. . . . 

. . . After the expiration of the time limit set for 
Russia without the receipt of an answer to our inquiry. 
His Majesty the Emperor and King ordered the mobiliza- 
tion of the entire German Army and the Imperial Navy at 
5 p. M. on Aug. I. In the meantime the Imperial Ambas- 
sador at St. Petersburg had been instructed to hand a decla- 
ration of war to the Russian Government in case no 
favorable reply was issued before the expiration of the time 
limit. However, before a report regarding the execution 
of this order arrived, Russian troops crossed our border and 
advanced on German territory, namely, as early as the 
afternoon of Aug. i. 

By this move Russia began the war against us. 

In the meantime the Imperial Ambassador at Paris put 
the question that he had been ordered to present before 
the French Cabinet at 7 P. M. on July 31. 

To this the French Prime Minister made an ambiguous 
and unsatisfactory reply at i o'clock in the afternoon of 
Aug. I. ... A few hours later, at 5 in the afternoon 
the complete mobilization of the entire French Army and 
Navy was ordered. 

On the morning of the following day France opened 
hostilities. 

The Austro-Hdngarian Note to Servia 
(From the NorddeiUsche AUgemeiite Zcilung, July 25, 1914) 

Berlin, July 24. 
The Austro-Hungarian Minister at Belgrade at 6 o'clock 
last night handed to the Servian Government a verbal note 
with the demands of the Austro-Hungarian Government. 
In the note the answer is requested by 6 p. M., July 25. 

[The note which follows is the same as that 
given in No. 4 of the English "White Paper" 
(q. V.,) with some slight variations in translation.] 

[There follows an article from the FremdenbhiU 
reviewing the Austro-Servian situation, comment- 
ing on the note, accusing the Sen,'ians of continued 
bad faith and trouble breeding, asserting Austria's 
desire to avoid war, and hoping that Servia will 
accept the terms of the note. Reference is made 
to other newspapers in Vienna which expressed 
similar hopes.] 



254 



EUROPE AT WAR 



AnSTRlA-HUNGAEY AND THE SERVIAN NOTE 

(From the Norddeutsche Allgememe Zeitung, July 29, 1914.) 

Vienna, July 27. 
The note of the Royal Servian Government of July 25, 
1914, reads as follows: 

[There follows the text of the Servian note, sub- 
stantially as given in No. 39 of the British "White 
Paper" (q. v.), interspersed with the comments of 
the Austro-Himgarian Monarchy. Exception is 
taken to the opening paragraphs of the Servian 
reply on the ground that Servia had failed to keep 
her pledge of March iS, 1909, by promptly and 
decisively suppressing all anti-Austrian propagan- 
da. Austria accuses Servia of not officially in- 
specting her private press. Servia's pronounce- 
ment against anti-Austrian propaganda is con- 
demned as insincere. As to Servia's ten pledges, 
Austria comments as follows : (i) Servia's plan to 
suppress anti-Austrian publications is dilatory, 
evasive, and unsatisfactory; (2) the plan to dis- 
solve propagandist societies only partially answers 
the demand; (3) the promise to eliminate propa- 
ganda from education is incomplete and lacking in 
evidences of good faith; (4) the provision for 
the trial of offending officers does not satisfy 
Austria; (5) Servia's acceptance of the collabora- 
tion of Austrian agents is so vague as to offer in- 
surmountable difficulties; (6) Servia's reply to 
the Austrian policing proposition is tantamoimt 
to a refusal; (7) Servia's statement that Cigano- 
•vic could not be found is not believed; (S) and (9) 
not enough details offered to indicate Servia's 
good faith.] 

Annex ia 
From the Austro-Hungakian Material 

Vienna, July 27. 
The "dossier" mentioned in the Austro-Hungarian cir- 
cular note to the foreign Embassies concerning the Servian 
dispute is made public to-day. 

[The memorial reviews the history of the anti- 
Austrian movement in Servia, and accuses the 
Narodna Odbrana of being the central organiza- 
tion in the movement. The activities of this 
society, both before and after 1909, are outlined, 
including the distribution of propagandist litera- 
ture. "Appearing in the disguise of a culture 
association," its main object was to preach war 
against Austria-Hungary. An attempt, moreover, 
was discovered to affiliate with secret societies in 
the Dual Monarchy. Agitation was conducted 
in the schools where teachers were trained. A 
direct connection is established between the ac- 



tivities of the Narodna and the attack on the 
Crown Prince and his consort. Not only this, 
but the official programme of the Servian Govern- 
ment is held to be anti-Servian.] 

Annex ib 
The Chancellor of the German Empire to the Im- 
perial Ambassadors in Paius, London, 
St. Petersburg 

Berlin, July 23, 1914. 
The statements of the Austro-Hungarian Government 
as to the conditions under which the attempt on the Ufe 
of the Austrian Crown Prince and his wife occurred make 
clear the aims of the Pan-Servian propaganda, and the 
means which it employs to accomplish its ends. . . . 

[The dispatch goes into the details of the pan- 
Servian movement and places the responsibility 
on the Servian Government. Austria's now un- 
compromising attitude is held to be justifiable.] 

. . . Unless the Austro-Hungarian Government 
wishes definitely to give up all claim to its position as a 
great Power, there is nothing for it to do but back up its 
demands on the Servian Government by strong pressure 
and, if necessary, by recourse to military measures, in 
which case the choice of means must be left to it. 

I ask Your Excellency to express yourself in the above 
terms to the representative of (Mr. Viviani) (Sir Edward 
Grey) (Mr. Sazonof) and to lay particular stress on the 
view that the above question is one, the settlement of which 
devolves solely upon Austria-Hungary and Servia, and one 
which the powers should earnestly strive to confine to the 
two countries concerned. We strongly desire that the dis- 
pute be localized, since any intervention of another power, 
on account of the various alliance obUgations, would bring 
consequences impossible to measure. 

Annex 2 
The Imperial Chancellor to the Confederated 

Governments of Germany 
Confidential! 

Kindly make the following announcement to the Gov- 
ernment to which you are accredited: 

In view of the facts which the Austro-Hungarian Govern- 
ment has made known in its note to the Servian Govern- 
ment, the last doubt must disappear that the plot to which 
the Austro-Hungarian Crown Prince and his wife were 
victims was hatched in Servia, with the connivance, at 
least, of officials of the SerN-ian Government. 

[The communication goes on to lay the blame 
for present difficulties on "pan-Servian Chauvin- 
ism" and Servian bad faith. Austria is credited 
with great forbearance. Servia's answer to 
Austrian demands shows that it does not intend 
to change its policies. An attempt is made to 
place on Russia the onus for any extension of 
trouble, since Russia is mistaken in her attitude 
in support of Servda.] 

The attitude of the Imperial German Government In 
this matter is clearly outlined. The agitation conducted 
by the Pan-Slavs against Austria-Hungary has, as its prin- 
cipal aim, the dissolution or weakening of the Triple Al- 
liance by means of the destruction of the Danube Empire, 
and, as a result, the complete isolation of the German 
Empire. Our closest interests, therefore, summon us to the 



GERMAN "WHITE PAPER' 



255 



side of Austria-Hungary. The duty to save Europe if pos- 
sible from a general war demands also that we support the 
efforts to localize the trouble, in accordance with the pohcy 
which we have successfully followed for the last forty-four 
years in the interests of the preservation of the peace of 
Europe. But if, contrary to hope, the trouble should 
spread owing to the intervention of Russia, then, true to 
our duty as an ally, we should have to support the neigh- 
boring monarchy with the entire might of the German 
Empire. . . . 

Annex 3 

Telegram from the Imperial German Ambassador 

IN Vienna to the litPERiAL German 

Chanxellor 

July 24, 1914. 
Count Berchtold to-day summoned the Russian Chargfi 
d'Affaires in order to explain to him in detail and in 
friendly terms the position of Austria regarding Servia. 
. . . He said that Austria-Hungary would demand no 
territory, that the step was merely a definitive measure 
against Servian machinations; that Austria-Hungary felt 
herself obliged to e.xact guarantees for the future friendly be- 
havior of Servia toward the monarchy; that he had no in- 
tention of bringing about a shifting of the balance of power 
in the Balkans. . . . 

Annex 4 

Telegram of the Imperial German Ambassador in 

St. Petersburg to the Imperi.u, German 

Chancellor 

July 24, 1914. 
A long talk with Sasanow; the Minister made wild com- 
plaints against Austria-Hungars', and was much excited. 
What he said most definitely was this: that Russia could 
not possibly permit the Ser^an-Austrian dispute to be 
confined to the parries concerned. 

Annex 5 

The Imperial German Ambassador in St. Petersburg 

TO the Imperial German Chancellor 

(Telegram) 

July 26, 1914. 
The Austro-Hungarian Ambassador had a long inter\new 
to-day with Sasanow. The assurance of the Ambassador 
that Austria-Hungary was planning no conquests and 
simply wished to secure quiet at last on her boundaries 
visibly calmed the Minister. 

Annex 6 

Telegram of the Imperial German Ambassador dj 

St. Petersburg to the Imperial German 

Chancellor 

July 25, 1914. 
To-day the drilling of the troops in the Krasnoe camp 
was suddenly interrupted and the regiments are to return 
at once to their garrison posts. The manceuvres have been 
given up. The military pupils were promoted to officers 
to-day instead of in the Autumn. Great excitement reigns 
in general headquarters as to Austria's proceedings. I 
have the idea that all preparations have been made for 
mobilization against Austria. 

Annex 7 

Telegram of the Imperial German Ambassador in 

St. Petersburg to the Imperial German 

Chancellor 

July 26, 1914. 
The Military Attache requests the transmission of the 
following report to the General Staff: 

I consider it certain that mobilization has been ordered 
for Kieff and Odessa. It is doubtful whether this is the 
case at Warsaw and Moscow, and elsewhere it has prob- 
ably not been ordered. 



Annex 8 

Telegram of the Head of the Imperial German 

Consulate in Kovno to the Imperial 

German Chancellor 

July 27, 1914, 
State of war declared in Kovno. 

Annex 9 

Telegram of the Imperial German Envoy in Berne 

TO THE Imperial German Chancellor 

July 27, 1914. 
Have learned reliably that Fourteenth French Corps 
stopped manoeu%Tes. 

Annex 10 

Telegram of the Imperial German Chancellor to 

THE Imperial German Ambassador in 

London 

July 26, 1914. 
Austria-Hungary has declared officially and solemnly 
in St. Petersburg that she contemplates no acquisition of 
territory in Servia, and that she will not endanger the con- 
tinuance of the kingdom, but wishes only to secure quiet. 
According to report reaching here, Russia is about to sum- 
mon several bodies of reservists immediately, which would 
be equivalent to mobilization against us. If this news is 
corroborated, we shall be forced against our will to take 
measures to meet it. To-day our efforts are still directed 
toward locaUzing the trouble and maintaining the peace in 
Europe. For this reason we ask that the strongest pos- 
sible pressure be brought to bear in St. Petersburg for 
achieving this end. 

Anne.x ioa 

Telegram of the Imperial German Chancellor to 

THE Imperial German Ambassador in 

Paris 

July 26, 1914. 
After .Austria-Hungary officially declared to Russia that 
she contemplated no acquisition of territory and would not 
tamper with the continuance of the Servian kingdom, the 
decision of the question as to whether there is to be a Euro- 
pean war Ues with Russia alone, who has to bear the full 
responsibihty. We trust that France, with whom we know 
we are agreed in the desire to maintain peace in Europe, 
will use her influence in St. Petersburg in a quieting man- 
ner. 

Annex iob 

Telegram of the Imperial German Chancellor to 

THE Imperial German Ambassador in 

St. Petersburg 

July 26, 1914. 

[Similar to loA ] 

. . . We still trust that Russia will take no steps that 
may seriously endanger European peace. 

Annex ii 

Telegram of the Imperial German Ambassador in 

St. Petersburg to the Imperial German 

Chancellor 

July 27, 1914. 
Military Attache reports concerning talk with Minister 
of War: 

"The Minister of War gave me his word of honor that 
as yet no mobilization order had gone forth, that for the 
time being merely preparatory measures were being taken, 
that not one reservist had been summoned nor a single 
horse requisitioned. He said that if Austria should cross 
the Servian frontier, the mihtary districts in the direction 
of Austria — Kieff, Odessa, Moscow, Kazan — would be 
mobilized, that those on the German front — Warsaw, 
Vihia, St. Petersburg — would not be under any circum- 
stances. ... I told the Minister that we appreciated 



256 



EUROPE AT WAR 



the friendly attitude toward ourselves but would look upon 
the mobilization against Austria alone as very menacing. 

Annex 12 

Telegram or the Imperial German Chancellor to 

THE Imperial German Ambassador in 

London 

July 27, 1914. 
Nothing is known here as yet as to a suggestion of Sir 
Edward Grey to hold a four-sided conference in London. 
It is impossible for us to bring our ally before a European 
court in its difference with Servia. Our mediatory activity 
must confine itself to the danger of a Russian- Austrian 
conflict. 

Annex 13 

Telegram or the Imperial German Chancellor to 

THE Imperial German Ambassador in 

London 

July 25, 1914. 
The distinction made by Sir Edward Grey between the 
Austro-Servian and Austro-Russian conflict is quite cor- 
rect. We wish as little as England to mix in the first, and, 
first and last, we take the ground that this question must 
be localized by the abstention of all the Powers from in- 
tervention in it. It is therefore our earnest hope that 
Russia will refrain from any active intervention. If an 
Austro-Russian dispute should arise, we are ready, with 
the reservation of our known duties as alhes, to cooperate 
with the other great Powers in mediation between Russia 
and Austria. 

Annex 14 

Telegram of the Imperial German Ch/Vncellor to 

the Imperial German Ambassador in 

St. Petersburg 

July 28, 1914. 
We are endeavoring continually to cause Vienna to 
make clear in St. Petersburg the purpose and scope of the 
Austrian action regarding Servia in an indisputable and, 
it is to be hoped, satisfying manner to Russia. The de- 
claration of war made in the meantime makes no differ- 
ence in this connection. 

Annex 15 

Telegram of the Imperial German Chancellor to 

the Imperial German Ambassador in 

London 

July 27, 1914. 
We have started the efforts toward mediation in Vienna 
immediately, in the way desired by Sir Edward Grey. 
Moreover, we have communicated to Count Berchtold the 
wish of Mr. Sasanow for a direct talk with Vienna. 

Annex i5 
Telegram of the Imperial German Ambass/\dor in 
Vienna to the Imperial German 
Chancellor 

July 28, 1914. 
Count Berchtold requests me to express to your Excel- 
lency his deep gratitude for communicating to him the 
English mediation plan. He remarks, however, concerning 
it, that, after the opening of hostilities by Servia and the 
declaration of war made in the meantime, he must look 
upon England's step as belated. 

Annex 17 

Telegram of the Imperial German Chancellor to 

the Imperial German Ambassador 

IN Paris 

July 29, 1914. 
Reports to us of French preparations for war increase 
from hour to hour. I request that you talk on this matter 



with the French Government and make it clear to them 
that such measures would lead to precautionary measures 
on our part. We should be obliged to proclaim the danger 
of war, and even if this should not mean calling in reserves 
and mobilization, it would, nevertheless, increase the ten- 
sion. . . . 

Annex 18 

Telegram of the German Military Envoy in St. 

Petersburg to His Majesty the Kaiser 

July 30, 1914. 
Yesterday Prince Troubetzki told me, after he had caused 
Your Majesty's telegram to Emperor Nicholas to be deliv- 
ered at once: "God be praised that a telegram from your 
Emperor has come." He told me a little while ago that the 
telegram had made a deep impression on the Emperor, but 
since mobilization against Austria had already been or- 
dered, and Sasonow had doubtless convinced His Majesty 
that it was no longer possible to recede. His Majesty 
unfortunately could do nothing to alter matters. . . . 

Annex 19 

Telegram of the Imperial German Chancellor 

to the Imperial German Ambassador 

in Rome 

July 31, 1914. 
We negotiated continually with a view to reconciliation 
between Russia and Austria-Hungary, both through direct 
exchange of telegrams from His Majesty the Kaiser to His 
Majesty the Czar, as well as in our relations with Sir Ed- 
ward Grey. But all our efforts are made much more difli- 
cult, if not impossible of reaUzation, by Russia's mobiUza- 
tion. . . . 

Annex 20 
I. His Majesty to the Czar 

July 28, 10:4s P- M. 

With the greatest disquietude I hear of the impression 
which Austria-Hungary's action against Servia is making 
in your empire. The unscrupulous agitation which has 
gone on for years in Serxda has led to the revolting crime of 
which Archduke Francis Ferdinand was the victim. The 
spirit which allowed the Servians to murder their own King 
and his wife still rules in that land. Undoubtedly you will 
agree with me that we two, you and I as well as all sover- 
eigns, have a common interest in insisting that all those 
morally responsible for this terrible murder shall suffer 
deserved punishment. 

On the other hand I by no means overlook how difficult 
it is for you and your Government to resist the tide of 
popular opinion. Remembering the heartfelt friendship 
which has bound us closely for a long Ume, I am therefore 
exerting all my influence to endeavor to make Austria- 
Hungary come to an open and satisfying understanding 
with Russia. I earnestly hope that you wUl help me in my 
efforts to set aside all obstacles that may }-et arise. 

Your very sincere and devoted friend and cousin. 

(Signed.) Wilhelm. 

Annex 21 
n. The Czar to His Majesty 

Peterhof Palace, July 29, i p. M. 
In this serious moment I ask you urgently to help me. 
A disgraceful war has been declared on a weak nation; the 
indignarion at this, which I fuUy share, is immense in 
Russia. I foresee that soon I can no longer withstand the 
pressure that is being brought to bear upon me, and that I 
shall be forced to adopt measures which will lead to war. 
In order to prevent such a calamity as a European war I 
ask you, in the name of our old friendship, to do all that is 
possible to you to prevent your ally from going too far. 

(Signed) Nicholas. 



GERMAN "WHITE PAPER" 



257 



Annex 22 
III. His Majesty to the Czar 
I have received your telegram and share your wish for 
the maintenance of peace. Nevertheless — as I said to 
you in my first telegram — I cannot consider Austria- 
Hungary's action "disgraceful war." Austria-Hungary 
knows by e.tperience that Servia's promises, when they are 
merely on paper, are quite unreliable. According to my 
opinion, Austria-Hungary's action is to be looked upon as 
an attempt to secure full guarantees that Servia's promises 
shall also be turned into deeds. I am confirmed in this \dew 
by the statement of the Austrian Cabinet that Austria- 
Hungary contemplates no acquisition of territory at the 
e.xpcnse of Servia. I think, therefore, that it is quite 
possible for Russia to remain in the r61e of a spectator 
toward the Austrian-Servian war, without dragging Europe 
into the most terrible war that it has ever seen. I think 
that a direct understanding between your Government and 
Vienna is possible and desirable, an understanding which 
— as I already telegraphed you — my Government is en- 
deavoring .to help with all its power. Naturally, military 
measures by Russia, which Austria-Hungary might take as 
threatening, would hasten a calamity that we both wsh to 
avoid, and would undermine my position as mediator, 

(Signed) Wilhelm. 

Annex 23 
IV. His Majesty to the Czar 

July 30, I A. M. 
My .Embassador has been instructed to call your Govern- 
ment's attention to the dangers and serious consequences 
of mobihzation. Austria-Hungary mobilized only against 
Servia, and at that she mobilized only a part of her army. 
If Russia, as appears from what you and your Government 
say, is mobiUzing against Austria-Hungary, the position 
of mediator, which you intrusted to me in a friendly manner 
and which I accepted at your urgent request, is jeopardized 
if not rendered untenable. The whole weight of the de- 
cision now rests on your shoulders; they must bear the 
responsibiUty for war or peace. 

(Signed) Wilhelm. 

Annex 23 a 
The Czar to His Majesty 

Peterhof, July 30, 1914, 1:20 P. M. 
I thank you from my heart for your prompt answer, I 
am scncUng Tatisheff this evening with instructions. The 
military measures now being taken were decided upon five 
days ago for defensive purposes against .Austria's prepara- 
tions. I hope with all my heart that these measures will 
not influence in any way your position as mediator, which 
I highly esteem. We need your strong pressure on Austria 
in order that an understanding may be brought about with 
us. Nicholas. 

Annex 24 
Telegram op the Imperial Gf.rman Chancellor 
TO tee Imperial German Ambassador in 
St. Petersburg 

July 31, 1914. 
In spite of still pending mediatory negotiations, and 
although we ourselves have up to the present moment taken 
no measures for mobilization, Russia has mobilized her en- 
tire army and navy; in other words, mobilized against us 
also. By these Russian measures we have been obliged, 
for the safeguarding of the empire, to announce that danger 



of war threatens lis, which does not yet mean mobilization. 
Mobilization, however, must follow unless Russia ceases 
within twelve hours all warUke measures against us and 
Austria-Hungary and gives us definite assurance thereof. 
Kindly communicate this at once to Mr. Sazonof. . . . 

Annex 25 

Telegram of the Imperial German Chancellor 

TO the Imperial German Ambassador 

IN Paris 

July 31, 1914. 

[Notice is given of the sending of the ultimatum 
contained in Annex 24, and its substance repeated.) 

. . . Kindly ask the French Government whether it 
will remain neutral in a Russian-German war. Answer 
must come within eighteen hours. Wire at once hour that 
inquiry is made. Act with the greatest possible dispatch. 

Annex 26 

Telegram of the Imperial German Chancellor 

TO the Imperial German Ambassador 

IN St. Petersburg 

Important! Aug. i, 1914. 

In case the Russian Government gives no satisfactory 
answer to our demand, will Your E.xcellency. at s o'clock 
this afternoon (Central European time), kindly hand to it 
the following declaration : 

The Imperial Government has endeavored from the be- 
ginning of the crisis to bring it to a peaceful solution. In 
accordance %vith a wish e.xpressed to him by His Majesty, 
the Emperor of Russia, His Majesty the Emperor of Ger- 
many, in cooperation with England, applied himself to 
the accomplishment of a mediating role toward the Cabinets 
of Vienna and St. Petersburg, when Russia, without await- 
ing the outcome, proceeded to mobilize her entire land and 
naval forces. 

Following this threatening measure, occasioned by no 
military preparation on the part of Germany, the German 
Empire found itself confronted by a serious and imminent 
peril. If the Imperial Government had failed to meet this 
peril, it would have jeopardized the safety and even the 
existence of Germany. Consequently, the German Govern- 
ment was obliged to address the Government of the Em- 
peror of all the Russias and insist upon the cessation of all 
these military measures. Russia having refused to accede 
to this demand, and having manifested by this refusal that 
her acts were directed against Germany, I have the honor, 
by order of my Government, to make known to Your Ex- 
cellency the following: 

His Majesty, the Emperor, my august Sovereign, in the 
name of the Empire, takes up the defiance, and considers 
himself in a state of war against Russia. . . . 

Kindly ask for your passports and hand over protection 
and business to the American Embassy. 

Annex 27 
Telegram of the Imperial German Ambassador 
in Paris to the Imperial German Chan- 
cellor 

Aug. I, 1:05 p. M. 
To my Repeated inquiry as to whether France, in case of a 
German-Russian war, would remain neutral, the Premier 
declared that France would do that wliich might be required 
of her by her interests. 



A NEW BRITISH "WHITE PAPER" 



ON SEPTEMBER i6, a second official "White Paper" was issued in London. This is 
intended to show that Austria and Servia were still in a fair way of adjusting their difficul- 
ties, when Germany's declarations of war against Russia and France precipitated the 
general catastrophe. 

Sir Maurice de Bunsen, then British Ambassador at Vienna, sets forth the situation in a despatch, 
dated September i, to Sir Edward Grey. He states that on August i Russia and Austria had 
almost come to terms, as Austria had consented to submit to mediation those points in her Servian 
note which seemed incompatible with Servian independence. Russia was satisfied with this, provided 
Austria would refrain from actually invading Servian territory. The Russian Ambassador in Vienna, 
M. Schebeko, was working hard for peace. 



[Sir Maurice proceeds:] 

He was holding most conciliatory language to Count 
Berchtold, the Austro-Hungarian Foreign Minister, and he 
informed me that the latter, as well as Count Forgach, 
had responded in the same spirit. Certainly it was too 
much for Russia to expect that Austria would hold back 
her armies, but this matter could probably have been set- 
tled by negotiation, and ]\I. Schebeko repeatedly said he 
was prepared to accept any reasonable compromise. 

Austria, in fact, had finally jielded, and that she herself 
had at this point good hopes of a peaceful issue is shown by 
a communication made to you [Sir Edward Grey] on Aug. i 
by Count Mensdorft (Austrian Ambassador in London) 
to the effect that Austria had neither "banged the door 
on compromise" nor cut oiT conversations. 

Unfortunately these conversations at St. Petersburg 
and Vienna were cut short by the transfer of the dispute 
to the more dangerous grounds of a direct conflict between 
Germany and Russia. Germany inter\'ened on July 31 
by means of her double ultimatums to St. Petersburg and 
Paris. The ultimatums were of a kind to which only one 
answer was possible and Germany declared war on Russia 
on Aug. I and on France on Aug. 3. 

A few days' delay might in all probability have saved 
Europe from one of the greatest calamities in history. 

[Sir Maurice states that neither the French, the 

Russian, nor the Italian Ambassador at Vienna 

had the least intimation in advance as to the 

harsh conditions of Austria's note to Servia.] 

As for myself, no indication was given me by Count 
Berchtold of the impending storm, and it was from a private 
source that I received on July 15 a forecast of what was 
about to happen. 

[The note was published in the newspapers of 
Vienna on July 24th. The Austrian people 
regarded it as an ultimatum, and had no wish or 
expectation that Servia would accept its terms. 
A false report that she had done so, uncondi- 
tionally, caused great disappointment, which gave 
way to joyful demonstrations when it was learned 
that Servia's reply had been rejected and the 
Austrian Minister at Belgrade had ceased to 
communicate with the Servian Government.] 

[Says Sir Maurice:] 

Now the floodgates were opened and the entire people 
and press clamored impatiently for the immediate and 



condign punishment of the hated Servian race. The 
country certainly believed that it had before it only the 
alternative of subduing Servia or of submitting sooner or 
later to mutilation at her hands. But a peaceful solution 
should first have been attempted. Few seemed to reflect 
that the forcible intervention of a great Power in the Bal- 
kans must inevitably call other great Powers into the field. 

The conviction had been e.xpressed to me by the German 
Ambassador on July 24 that Russia would stand aside. 
This feeling, which was also held at the Ballplatz, influ- 
enced, no doubt, the course of events, and it is deplorable 
that no effort should have been made to secure by means of 
diplomatic negotiations the acquiescence of Russia and 
Europe as a whole in some peaceful compromise of the 
Servian question by which Austrian fears of Servian ag- 
gressions and intrigue might have been removed for the 
future. 

Instead of adopting this course the Austro-Hungarian 
Goverrmient resolved upon war. The inevitable con- 
sequence ensued. Russia repUed to a partial Austrian 
mobilization and declaration of war against Servia by a 
partial Russian mobihzation against Austria. 

Austria met this move by completing her own mobiliza- 
tion, and Russia again responded with results which have 
passed into history. 

[On July 28 Sir Maurice urged upon Count 
Berchtold that Sir Edward Grey's plan of media- 
tion be accepted. The Count replied that he 
realized the potentialities of the issue, but that 
matters had already gone too far, as Austria on 
that very day was declaring war on Servia. He 
maintained that Russia would have no reason to 
intervene, as Austria had declared her intention 
of respecting Servia's territorial integrity.] 

[Sir Maurice proceeds:] 

The German Government claims to have persevered to 
the end in an endeavor to support at Vienna your successive 
proposals in the interest of peace. Herr von Tschirschky 
(the German Ambassador) abstained from inviting my 
cooperation or that of the French and Russian Ambassadors 
in carrying out his instructions to that effect, and I had no 
means of knowing what response he was receiving from the 
Austro-Hungarian Government. 

I was, however, kept fully informed by M. Sch6b6ko, the 
Russian Ambassador, of his own direct negotiations with 
Count Berchtold. 

M. Scheb6ko endeavored on July 28 to persuade the 
Austro-Hungarian Government to furnish Count Szapary 
with full powers to continue at St. Petersburg the hopeful 



258 



MODERN INVENTIONS IN WAR 



259 




Copyright by Underwood & Underwood, N. Y. 




Pliotograph by Paul rhonipson 

FRENCH FIELD TELEGRAPH (TOP) AND ENGLISH FIELD TELEPHONE IN OPERATION 



26o 



EUROPE AT WAR 




BELGIAN ARIMORED AUTOMOBILES 



Copyrifrht by Underwood ^V Underwood, N Y. 




TRANSPORTING ARTILLERY ACROSS A STREAM 



I'liotDgtaph by Brown Eros- 



WAR AIR CRAFT 



261 








ENGLISH (T.jp) FRENCH AND GERMAN DIRIGIBLES 



Photographs by PliuI Tliom;>son 



262 



EUROPE AT WAR 




ARMORED BIPLAXE \MTH RAPID-FIRE GUN 



Photojjraph by BrLnvn Bros. 




Copyright by Under\\ood & Underwood, N. V. 

BOMB DROPPING APPARATUS ATTACHED TO AEROPLANE 




FAST, ARMORED MONOPLANE WITH RAPID-FIRING GUN ATOP 



Phntojjraph by Brown Brus. 



CITIES IN THE THICK OF WAR 



263 




BELGRADE, SERVIA 




NAMUR, BELGIUM 



Photograph by Bain News Service 




CITY OF ANTWERP 



i'liotograph by Bain News Service 



264 



EUROPE AT W A R 




KING ALBERT OF BELGIUM 

HIS FORMliK CAPITAL. BRUSSELS 



JAPAN TAKES A HANI) 



265 




COUNT OKUMA 
PREMIER 



COUNT OKA 

MINISTER OF WAR 



VICE ADMIR.\L KUROI 
COMMANDING HOME FLEET 






JAPANESE CRUISER "KONGO" 








■^ 


ji<~t^j» , ■ '^^nn^^^H^^^^^^^H^Z^flH^^^^k. 








B^HE^^^' f^^^^^^HHBi'^^.:^ 


7ii!T' -^ 




. .-. .-■•*- ^. a. ..«^- 






^^--***^«-u.- '""^ 


^ 








It fT| 






k^t 


B 



Copyright by American Press Association 



KIAO-CHAU, GERMAN POSSESSION IN CHINA 



266 



EUROPE AT WAR 




Copyright by Underwood & Underwood. N. Y. 

SERVIAN SOLDIERS; THE FINISHED PRODUCT 




Photograph by American Press Association 



THE STUFF THE SERVL\N ARMY IS MADE OF 




Copyright by Underwood & Underwood, N. Y. 



SERVIANS IN THE TRENCHES 



THE FRENCH ARMY 



267 




A MODERN ARMORED TR.\IN, USED BY THE FRENCH ARMY 








^SSrJ' 


■alalia 




^ 


X 






p 




, 1 


'' ' 


^'A 


^ ' i 




i?/ 


^«^^ 


^- ^ 


1 At 


•il 


'1^ 


ll?H 


\\k 


- « 


.W 


\' 


- . 


^^- 


1 





PhotO[;rai>heil b\ James !•"- |. An,hibakl 

THE FRENCH CAVALRY AND FIELD ARTILLERY ARE PROBABLY THE BEST IN EUROPE 




Copyright by Underwood & Underwood, N. V. 

FRENCH INFANTRY ON THE MARCH 

FRENCH nJFANTRYMEN ARE CREDITED WITH BEING ABLE TO MARCH FARTHER THAN OTHER EUROPEAN SOLDIERS 



268 



EUROPE AT WAR 




GERMAN INFANTRY ON THE MARCH 




.l.KMAN UHLAXS U.\ PAR.\DK 




C;ERMA\ infantry with their camp KITCHEN 



FRENCH BATTALIONS OF THE AIR 



269 




FRENCH BATTALIONS OF THE AIR 

THE PRESENT VVAK IS THE FIRST \TTAL TEST OF AIRCRAFT. THE FRENCH, OF ALL THE NATIONS, HAVE THE LARGEST AND 

BEST EQUIPMENT OF AEROPLANES 



syo 



EUROPE AT WAR 









Copyright by I'luler^suucl .V L'l 

ENCAMPED AND MARCHING 



ik-r«.j..»l, \ 1 



RUSSIAN COSSACKS AND INFANTRY, 

RUSSIAN SOLDIER DOES NOT THINK FOR HIMSELF AND THE MANCHURIAN CAMPAIGN SHOWED THAT HIS OFFICERS DO 
NOT DO ENOUGH THINKING FOR HIM. DESPITE THIS HE HAS SHOWN THAT HE WILL STAND 
A TREMENDOUS PERCENTAGE OF LOSS WITHOUT BREAKING 



THE RUSSIAN ADVANCE 



271 




A RUSSIAN ADVANCE 



Photugraphed by Jaiiiei H. j. ArtliibaM 




TiUSSIAN ARTILLERY IN ACTION 



272 



EUROPE AT WAR 




WHY THE FIRST GERMAN ATTACK ON 

THIS RELIEF MAP, ON WHICH THE LOWLANDS APPEAR IN WHITE, SHOWS GR.APHICALLV THAT THE EASIEST WAY 

FROM BRUSSELS ALMOST DIRECTLY SOUTH TOWARD PARIS. IT EXPLAINS ALSO 



WHY THE GERMANS WENT THROUGH BELGIUM 273 




FRANCE WAS MADE THROUGH BELGIUM 

FOR THE GERMANS TO STRIKE TliE FIRST BLOW WAS BV A MARCH DUE WEST FROM COLOGNE TO BRUSSELS AND 
THE COMPARATIVE SLOWNESS OF OPERATIONS OF THE GERMAN CENTRE AND LEFT 



274 



EUROPE AT WAR 




SERVIAN ARllLLliK\ 




SF.RVIA'S BATTLE-SEASONED VETERANS 

SERVIANS IN CAMP .iPTER THE BATTLE OF MONASTIR, FOUGHT DURING THE BALKAN WAR 



SOME ROYAL TELEGRAMS 



275 



conversations which had there been taking place between 
the latter and M. Sazonoff (Foreign Minister). Count 
Berchtold refused at the time, but two days later (July 
30) consented. In the meantime Russia had partially 
mobilized against Austria. 

He received M. Sch^b^ko again in a perfectly friendly 
manner and gave his consent to the continuance of the 
conversations at St. Petersburg. 

The dispatch goes on te say that thencefor- 
ward the situation between Russia and Germany 



became worse than that between Russia and Aus- 
tria, till Germany finally declared war. 

Sir Maurice concludes his dispatch by describ- 
ing the Ambassadors' departure from Vienna. 
As the French Ambassador left the city, the Chief 
Burgomaster was announcing to the crowd that a 
revolution was in progress at Paris and that 
President Poincare had already been assassinated! 



**HOW THE FRANCO-GERMAN CONFLICT COULD 
HAVE BEEN AVOIDED" 

SOME ROYAL TELEGRAMS 

We give below in full the text of the official pamphlet with the above title recently issued in 
English from the German Government printing office in Berlin. — Tlie Editors. 



Note Preceding the Correspondence. 

"The following documents refer to the ex- 
change of views between Germany and England 
immediately before the war broke out. It will 
be perceived from these documents that Ger- 
many was prepared to spare France in case Eng- 
land should remain neutral and would guarantee 
the neutrality of France." 

Telegram of His Royal Highness Prince Henry of Prussia 

to H. M. the King of England of July soth, 1914. 

Am here since yesterday; have informed William of what 
you kindly told me at Buckingham Palace last Sunday, 
who gratefully received your message. 

WilUam, much preoccupied, is trying his utmost to fulfill 
Nicky's appeal to him to work for maintenance of peace 
and is in constant telegraphic communication with Nicky, 
who to-day confirms news that military measures have 
been ordered by him equal to mobilization, measures which 
have been taken already five days ago. 

We are furthermore informed that France is making 
miUtary preparations, whereas we have taken no meas- 
ures, but may be forced to do so any moment, should our 
neighbors continue, which then would mean a European 
war. 

If you really and earnestly wish to prevent this terrible 
disaster, may I suggest your using your influence on France 
and also Russia to keep neutral, which seems to me would 
be most useful. 

This I consider a very good, perhaps the only chance, 
to maintain the peace of Europe. 

I may add that now more than ever Germany and Eng- 
land should lend each other mutual help to prevent a ter- 
rible catastrophe, which otherwise seems unavoidable. 

Beheve me that WilUam is most sincere in his endeavors 
to maintain peace, but that the military preparations of his 
two neighbors may at last force him to follow their example 
for the safety of his own coimtry, which otherwise would 
remain defenseless. 

I have informed WilUam of my telegram to you, and 
hope you will receive my informations in the same spirit of 
friendship which suggested them. 

[Signed] Heney. 

Telegram of H. M. the King of England to Prince Henry 

of Prussia of July 30th, 1914. 

Thanks for your telegram. So pleased to hear of Wil- 
liam's efforts to concert with Nicky to maintain peace. 



Indeed I am earnestly desirous that such an irreparable 
disaster as a European war should be averted. My 
Government is doing its utmost, suggesting to Russia and 
France to suspend further miUtary preparations if Aus- 
tria will consent to be satisfied with occupation of Belgrade 
and neighboring SerWan territory as a hostage for satis- 
factory settlement of her demands, other countries mean- 
while suspending their war preparations. Trust WilUam 
will use his great influence to induce Austria to accept 
this proposal, thus proving that Germany and England 
are working together to prevent what would be an inter- 
national catastrophe. Pray assure WilUam I am doing and 
shaU continue to do aU that Ues in my power to preserve 
peace of Europe. 

[Signed] George. 

Telegram of His Majesty the Emperor to H. M. the King 

of England of July iisl, 1914. 

Many thanks for your kind telegram. Your proposals 
coincide with my ideas and with the statements I got this 
night from Vienna which I have had forwarded to London. 
I just received news from Chancellor that oflicial notifica- 
tion has just reached him that this night Nicky has ordered 
the mobilization of his whole army and fleet. He has not 
even awaited the results of the mediation I am working 
at and left Me without any news. I am off for BerUn to 
take measures for insuring safety of My eastern frontier, 
where strong Russian troops are akeady posted. 

[Signed] Willy. 

Telegram of the King, of England to His Majesty the Em- 
peror of August 1st, 1914. 
Many thanks for Your telegram last night. I sent an 

urgent telegram to Nicky expressing My readiness to do 

everything in My power to assist in reopening conversations 

between powers concerned. 
[Signed] Geoegie. 

Telegram of the German Ambassador in London to the Chan- 
cellor of August 1st, 1914. 

Sir E. Grey just asked me by telephone whether I be- 
lieved to be in a position to declare that we would not at- 
tack France in a war between Germany and Russia in case 
France should remain neutral. I declared I beUeved to be 
able to give such an undertaking. 

[Signed] Lichnowsky. 

Telegram of His Majesty the Emperor to H. M. the King of 

Englaftd of August ist, 1914. 

I just received the communication from Your Govern- 
ment offering French neutrality under guarantee of Great 
Britain. Added to this offer was the inquiry whether 



276 



EUROPE AT WAR 



under these conditions Germany would refrain from at- 
tacking France. On technical grounds My mobilization, 
which had already been proclaimed this afternoon, must 
proceed against two fronts east and west as prepared; this 
cannot be countermanded because, I am sorry, Your 
telegram came so late. But if France offers Me neutraUty 
which must be guaranteed by the British fleet and army I 
shall of course refrain from attacking France and employ 
My troops elsewhere. I hope that France will not become 
nervous. The troops on My frontier are in the act of being 
stopped by telegraph and telephone from crossing into 
France. 

Telegram of llic Chancellor to the German Ambassador in 

London of August ist, igi4. 

Germany is ready to accept British proposal in case 
England guarantees with all her forces absolute neutrality 
of France in Russo-Gerraan conflict. German mobiliza- 
tion has been ordered to-day on account of Russian chal- 
lenge before English proposal was known here. It is 
therefore now impossible to make any change in strategical 
distribution of troops ordered to the French frontier. But 
we guarantee that our troops will not cross the French 
frontier before 7 p. M. on Monday the 3rd inst, in case 
England will pledge herself meanwhile. 

[Signed] Bethmann-Hollweg. 

Telegram of H. M. the King of England to His Majesty the 

Emperor of August 1st, 1914. 

In answer to your telegram just received, I think there 
must be some misunderstanding as to a suggestion that 



passed in friendly conversation between Prince Lichnowsky 
and Sir Edward Grey this afternoon when they were dis- 
cussing how actual fighting between German and French 
armies might be avoided while there is still a chance of some 
agreement between Austria and Russia. Sir Edward 
Grey will arrange to see Prince Lichnowsky early to-mor- 
row morning to ascertain whether there is a misunder- 
standing on his part. 

[Signed] Geoege. 

Telegram of the German Ambassador in London to the Chan- 
cellor of August 2nd, 1914. 

Sir E. Grey's suggestions were prompted by a desire to 
make it possible for England to keep permanent neutrality, 
but as they were not based on a previous understanding 
with France and made without knowledge of our mobiliza- 
tion, they have been abandoned as absolutely hopeless. 
[Signed] Lichnowsky. 

Note Following the Correspondence. 

"The essence of Germany's declarations is 
contained in Emperor William's telegram to the 
King of England of August ist, 1914. Even if 
there existed a misunderstanding as to an English 
proposal, the Kaiser's offer furnished England the 
opportunity to prove her paciiic disposition and 
to prevent the Franco-German war." 



MISCELLANEOUS VIEWS 



TROBABLE CAUSES OF THE WAR 

BY DR. CHARLES W. ELIOT 

President Emeritus of Harvard University 



THE American people without distinction 
of party are highly content with the action 
of their National Administration on all the 
grave problems presented to the Government by 
the sudden outbreak of long-prepared war in 
Europe — a war which already involves five great 
States and two small ones. They heartily approve 
of the action of the Administration on mediation, 
neutrality, aid to Americans in Europe, dis- 
couragement of speculation in foods, and, with the 
exception of extreme protectionists, admission to 
American registry of foreign-built ships; although 
the legislation on the last subject, which has 
already passed Congress, is manifestly inadequate. 

Our people cannot see that the war will neces- 
sarily be short, and they cannot imagine how it 
can last long. They realize that history gives 
no example of such a general interruption of trade 
and all other international intercourse as has 
already taken place, or of such a stoppage of the 
production and distribution of the necessaries of 
life as this war threatens. They shudder at 
the floods of human woe which are about to over- 
whelm Europe. 

Hence, thinking Americans cannot help re- 
flecting on the causes of this monstrous outbreak 
of primitive savagery — part of them come down 
from the Seventeenth and Eighteenth centuries 
and part developed in the Nineteenth — and won- 
dering what good for mankind, if any, can 
possibly come out of the present cataclysm. 

The whole people of the United States, with- 
out regard to racial origin, are of one mind in 
hoping that mankind may gain out of this pro- 
digious physical combat, which uses for purposes 
of destruction and death all the new forces of 
Nineteenth-Century applied science, some new 
liberties, and new securities in the pursuit of 
happiness; but at this moment they can cherish 
only a remote hope of such an issue. The mili- 
tary force which Austria-Hungary and Germany 

*Reprinted, by permission, from Tiie New York Times of September 6tli. 

277 



are now using on a prodigious scale, and with long- 
studied sldll, can only be met by similar mihtary 
force, and this resisting force is summoned more 
slowly than that of Austria-Hungary and Ger- 
many; although the ultimate battalions will be 
heavier. In this portentous physical contest the 
American people have no part; their geographical 
position, their historical development, and their 
political ideals combine to make them for the 
present mere spectators; although their interests — 
commercial, industrial, and poHtical — are deeply 
involved. For the moment, the best thing our 
Government can do is to utilize all existing neu- 
trality rights, and, if possible, to strengthen or 
develop those rights, for out of this war ought 
to come more neutral States in Europe, and 
greater security for neutralized territory. 

The chances of getting some gains for mankind 
out of this gigantic struggle will be somewhat 
increased if the American people, and all other 
neutral peoples, arrive through public discussion 
at some clear understanding of the causes and 
the possible and desirable issues of the war, and 
the sooner this public discussion begins, and the 
more thoroughly it is pursued, the sounder will 
probably be the tendencies of public sentiment 
outside of the contending nations, and the con- 
clusions which the peace negotiations will ulti- 
mately reach. 

When one begins, however, to reflect on the 
probable causes of the sudden lapse of the most 
civilized parts of Europe into worse than primitive 
savagery, he comes at once on two old and wide- 
spread evils in Europe from which America has 
been exempt for at least 150 years. The first is 
secret diplomacy with power to make issues and 
determine events, and the second is autocratic 
national executives who can swing the whole 
physical force of the nation to this side or that 
without consulting the people or their represent- 
atives. 



278 



EUROPE AT WAR 



The actual catastrophe proves that secret 
negotiations, like those habitually conducted on 
behalf of the "concert of Europe," and alliances 
between selected nations, the terms of which are 
secret, or at any rate not publicly stated, cannot 
avert in the long run outrageous war, but can 
only produce postponements of war, or short 
truces. Free institutions, like those of the United 
States, take the public into confidence, because 
all important movements of the Government must 
rest on popular desires, needs, and voHtions. 
Autocratic institutions have no such necessity 
for publicity. This Government secrecy as to 
motives, plans, and purposes must often be main- 
tained by disregarding truth, fair dealing, and 
honorable obligations, in order that, when the 
appeal to force comes, one Government may 
secure the advantage of taking the other by sur- 
prise. Duplicity during peace and the breaking 
of treaties during war come to be regarded as 
obvious military necessities. 

The second great evil, under which certain 
large nations of Europe — notably Russia, Ger- 
many, and Austria-Hungary — have long suffered 
and still suffer, is the permanent national exec- 
utive, independent of popular control through 
representative bodies, holding strong views about 
rights of birth and religious sanctions of its au- 
thority, and really controlling the national forces 
through some small council and a strong bureau- 
cracy. So long as executives of this sort endure, 
so long will civilization be liable to such explosions 
as have taken place this August, though not 
always on so vast a scale. 

Americans now see these things more clearly 
than European lovers of liberty, because Ameri- 
cans are detached from the actual conflicts by the 
Atlantic, and because Americans have had no 
real contact with the feudal or the imperial system 
for nearly 300 years. Pilgrim and Puritan, 
Covenanter and Quaker, Lutheran, and CathoUc 
aUke left the feudal system and autocratic govern- 
ment behind them when they crossed the Atlantic. 
Americans, therefore, cannot help hoping that two 
results of the present war will be: (i) The aboli- 
tion of secret diplomacy and secret understand- 
ings, and the substitution therefor of treaties 
publicly discussed and sanctioned, and (2) The 
creation of national executives — Emperors, Sul- 
tans, Kings, or Presidents — which cannot use the 
national forces in fight until a thoroughly informed 



national assembly, acting with dehberation, has 
agreed to that use. 

The American student of history since the 
middle of the Seventeenth Century sees clearly 
two strong though apparently opposite tendencies 
in Europe: First, the tendency to the creation 
and maintenance of small States such as those 
which the Peace of Westphalia (1648) recognized 
and for two centuries secured in a fairly independ- 
ent existence, and, secondly, a tendency from the 
middle of the Nineteenth Century toward larger 
national units, created by combining several 
kindred States vmder one executive. This second 
tendency was illustrated strongly in the case of 
both Germany and Italy, although the Prussian 
domination in Germany has no parallel in Italy. 
Somewhat earlier in the Nineteenth Century the 
doctrine of the neutralization of the territories of 
small States was established as firmly as solemn 
treaties could do it. The larger national units 
had a more or less federative quality, the com- 
ponents yielding some of their functions to a cen- 
tral power, but retaining numerous independent 
functions. This tendency to limited unification 
is one which Americans easily understand and 
appreciate. We believe in the federative prin- 
ciple, and must therefore hope that out of the 
present European horror will come a new develop- 
ment of that principle, and new security for small 
States which are capable of guaranteeing to their 
citizens "life, liberty, and the pursuit of happi- 
ness" — a security which no citizen of any Euro- 
pean country seems to-day to possess. 

Some of the underlying causes of the horrible 
catastrophe the American people are now watch- 
ing from afar are commercial and economic. Im- 
perial Germany's desire for colonies in other 
continents— such as Great Britain and France 
secured earlier as a result of keen commercial 
ambitions — is intense. Prussia's seizure of Schles- 
wig in 1864-5 had the commercial motive; and 
it is with visions of ports on the North Sea that 
Germany justifies her present occupation of 
Belgium. The Russians have for generations 
desired to extend their national territory south- 
ward to the j^gean and the Bosphorus, and east- 
ward to good harbors on the Pacific. Later they 
pushed into Mongolia and Manchuria, but were 
resisted successfully by Japan. Austria-Hungary 
has long been seeking ports on the Adriatic, and 
lately seized without warrant Herzegovina and 



PROBABLE CAUSES OF THE WAR 



279 



Bosnia to promote her approach toward the 
i^^^gean, and is now trying to seize Servia with the 
same ends in view. With similar motives Italy 
lately descended on Tripoli, without any excuse 
except this intense desire for colonies — profitable 
or unprofitable. On the other hand, the Amer- 
ican people, looking to the future as well as to the 
past, object to acquisitions of new territory by 
force of arms; and since the Twentieth Century 
opened they have twice illustrated in their own 
practice — first in Cuba, and then in Mexico — 
this democratic objection. They believe that 
extensions of national territory should be brought 
about only with the indubitable consent of the 
majority of the people most nearly concerned. 
They believe also that commerce should always 
be a means of promoting good-will, and not ill- 
wUl, among men, and that all legitimate and useful 
extensions of the commerce of a manufacturing 
and commercial nation may be procured through 
the policy of the "open door" — which means 
nothing more than that all nations should be 
allowed to compete on equal terms for the trade 
of any foreign people, whether backward or 
advanced in civilization. No American Ad- 
ministration has accepted a "concession" of land 
in China. They also believe that peaceable 
extensions of territory and trade will afford ade- 
quate relief from the economic pressure on a 
population too large for the territory it occupies, 
and that there is no need of forcible seizure of 
territory to secure relief. It is inevitable, there- 
fore, that the American people should hope that 
one outcome of the present war should be — no 
enlargement of a national territory by force or 
without the free consent of the population to be 
annexed, and no colonization except by peaceable 
commercial and industrial methods. 

One of the most interesting and far-reaching 
effects of the present outbreak of savagery is 
likely to be the conviction it carries to the minds 
of thinking people that the whole process of com- 
petitive armaments, the enlistment of the entire 
male population in national armies, and the inces- 
sant planning of campaigns against neighbors, 
is not a trustworthy method for preserving peace. 
It now appears that the military preparations 
of the last fifty years in Europe have resulted in 
the most terrific war of all time, and that a fierce 
ultimate outbreak is the only probable result of 
the system. For the future of civilization this is 



a lesson of high value. It teaches that if modern 
civilization is to be preserved, national executives 
— whether imperial or republican — must not 
have at their disposal immense armaments and 
drilled armies held ready in the leash; that arma- 
ments must be limited, an international Supreme 
Court established, national armies changed to the 
Swiss form, and an international force adequate 
to deal with any nation that may suddenly be- 
come lawless agreed upon by treaty and held 
always in readiness. The occasional use of force 
will continue to be necessary even in the civilized 
world; but it must be made not an aggressive, 
but a protective, force and used as such — just 
as protective force has to be used sometimes in 
families, schools, cities, and commonwealths. 

At present, Americans do not close their eyes 
to the plain fact that the brute force which Ger- 
many and Austria-Hungary are now using, can 
only be overcome by brute force of the same sort 
in larger measures. It is only when negotiations 
for peace begin that the great lesson of the futility 
of huge preparations for fighting to preserve 
peace can be given effect. Is it too much to ex- 
pect that the whole civilized world will take to 
heart the lessons of this terrible catastrophe and 
cooperate to prevent the recurrence of such losses 
and woes? Should Germany and Austria-Hun- 
gary succeed in their present undertakings, the 
whole civilized world would be obliged to bear 
continuously, and to an ever-increasing amount, 
the burdens of great armaments, and would live 
in constant fear of sudden invasion, now here, 
now there — a terrible fear, against which neither 
treaties nor professions of peaceable intentions 
would offer the least security. 

It must be admitted, however, that the whole 
military organization, which has long been com- 
pulsory on the nations of continental Europe, is 
inconsistent in the highest degree with American 
ideals of individual liberty and social progress. 
Democracies can fight with ardor, and sometimes 
with success, when the whole people is moved by 
a common sentiment or passion; but the structure 
and discipline of a modern army like that of Ger- 
many, Austria-Hungary, or Russia has a despotic 
or autocratic quality which is inconsistent with 
the fundamental principles of democratic society. 
To make war in countries like France, Great 
Britain, and the United States requires the wide- 
spread, simultaneous stirring of the passions of 



28o 



EUROPE AT WAR 



the people on behalf of their own ideals. This 
stirring requires publicity before and after the 
declaration of war and public discussion; and the 
delays which discussion causes are securities for 
peace. Out of the present struggle should come 
a check on militarism — a strong revulsion against 
the use of force as means of settling international 
disputes. 

It must also be admitted that it is impossible 
for the American people to sympathize with the 
tone of the imperial and royal addresses which, 
in summoning the people to war, use such phrases 
as "My monarchy," "My loyal people," or "My 
loyal subjects ;' for there is implied in such phrases 
a dynastic or personal ownership of peoples which 
shocks the average American. Americans in- 
evitably think that the right way for a ruler to 
begin an exhortation to the people he rules is Pres- 
ident Wilson's way — "My fellow countrymen." 

It follows from the very existence of these 
American instincts and hopes that, although the 
people of the United States mean to maintain 
faithfully a legal neutrality, they are not, and 
can not be, neutral or indifferent as to the ulti- 
mate outcome of this titanic struggle. It already 
seems to them that England, France, and Russia 
are fighting for freedom and civilization. It does 
not follow that thinking Americans will forget 
the immense services which Germany has ren- 
dered to civilization during the last himdred 
years, or desire that her power to serve letters, 
science, art, and education should be in the least 
abridged in the outcome of this war upon which 
she has entered so rashly and selfishly, and in so 
barbarous a spirit. Most educated Americans 
hope and believe that by defeating the German 



barbarousness the Allies will only promote the 
noble German civilization. 

The presence of Russia in the combination 
against Germany and Austria-Hungary seems 
to the average American an abnormal pheno- 
menon; because Russia is itself a military mon- 
archy with marked territorial ambitions; and its 
civilization is at a more elementary stage than 
that of France or England; but he resists present 
apprehension on this score by recalling that Russia 
submitted to the " Concert of Europe" when her 
victorious armies were within seventeen miles of 
Constantinople, that she emancipated her serfs, 
proposed The Hague Conferences, initiated the 
"Duma," and has lately offered — perhaps as war 
measures only — autonomy to her Poles and equal 
rights of citizenship to her Jews. He also cannot 
help believing that a nation which has produced 
such a literature as Russia has produced during 
the last fifty years must hold within its multi- 
tudinous population a large minority which is 
seething with high aspirations and a fine idealism. 

For the clarification of the public mind on the 
issues involved, it is important that the limits of 
American neutrality should be discussed and 
understood. The action of the Government 
must be neutral in the best sense; but American 
sympathies and hopes cannot possibly be neutral, 
for the whole history and present state of Ameri- 
can liberty forbids. For the present, thinking 
Americans can only try to appreciate the scope 
and real issues of this formidable convulsion, and 
so be ready to seize every opportunity that may 
present itself to further the cause of human free- 
dom, and of peace at last. 

Asticou, Me., Sept. i, 1914. 



THE EUROPEAN DEBACLE 

BY HERMAN RIDDER 

of the New Yorker Staals-Zeitung. 



THE present European debacle is but 
another exemplification of the great 
principle which has underlaid all of the 
major conflicts of history — the inexorable neces- 
sity for a people to expand, or to decay. In this 
sense, the peaceful expansion of the various coun- 
tries of Europe during the last half century paved 
the way, smooth and direct, for the cosmic tragedy 
which we are now witnessing across the oceans. 



With the expansive forces of economic need and 
race-sense constantly working within the fixed 
limit of a certain geographical territory, conflicts 
of interests and eventually the conflict of nations 
was inevitable. 

The rise of Germany subsequent to the con- 
summation of the Empire has been remarkable. 
Her commercial expansion has been not simply 
irresistibly steady; it has been prophetically rapid. 



THE EUROPEAN DEBACLE 



281 



It was not to be expected that France and, more 
especially, Great Britain could regard the un- 
remitting inroads thus made into fields which up 
to this time they had regarded as their own, with 
equanimity. 

The story of British diplomacy during the last 
years coincident with Germany's tremendous 
cutting down of Great Britain's commercial 
supremacy is punctuated with every conceivable 
form of possible interference with her rival's 
legitimate lines of trade extension. It was all 
done under the cover of that shibboleth "the 
status quo," but, like other fabrics stretched 
to cover too much, the "status quo" became at 
last transparent. When that point was reached, 
war was already in sight. There was not one 
field beyond her own borders in which Germany 
was unopposed not simply by the commercial 
competition of her powerful rival but by all the 
diplomatic forces that could be brought to bear 
against her. Germany knew this, and Great 
Britain knew thaft she knew it and that the hour 
of reckoning could not be long postponed. When 
her chain of allies had been completed, Great 
Britain sought only for the conventional pretext. 

The ends of the earth, it would seem, had been 
searched by British diplomacy for its purposes. 
When the Russian advance toward India had 
been for the time being stayed on the fields of 
Manchuria, Russia, washed clean of a century 
of suspicion, was hailed in an hour the ally of 
England. The cry "Pan-Germanism" was all 
that she required to bring her forward against 
Germany, as the standard-bearers of "Pan- 
Slavism." The memory of " perfidious Albion " 
was wiped out by Edward VII, when he offered 
France the assistance of British arms in the move- 
ment toward the "revanche." Japan, whose 
friendship had been sought in the first instance 
against Russia, was stOl an ally. It would seem 
as if Great Britain might have rested content 
with these achievements, but apparently not one 
stone was to be left unturned to make the isola- 
tion of Germany and Austria complete. By 
raising the hopes of the Irredentists of Italy, the 
bonds of the Triple Alliance were loosened and 
their one ally withdrawn from them. By a viola- 
tion of the spirit of Belgian neutrality the French 
advance to Berlin was to be smoothed. 

While all this was going on Germany was silent 
but not asleep. She was not blind to the activ- 



ities of her enemies, but she was impotent to 
forestall them. 

It was not a difficult feat to provoke the war, 
once the Allies were prepared for it. Out of the 
Balkan War had come conditions which Russia 
interpreted as propitious to the fulfillment of her 
long retarded ambitions for a port on the south 
and the erection of an all-embracing Slavic Em- 
pire. Working through the Pan-Slavic move- 
ment in Servia she created in that country a state 
of afifairs which no self-respecting nation could 
tolerate on its borders. When Austria protested 
to Servia, Russia began the mobilization against 
her of the vast army which had been whipped 
into shape for just this contmgency. As Austria's 
ally, Germany was compelled to go to her assis- 
tance in a struggle in which the meaning of the 
eventual success of Russia was evident to every 
German mind. 

Germany did not want the war. During a 
quarter of a century her industries and commerce 
have developed under an emperor who had shown 
himself a sincere and forceful advocate of peace. 
It is the limit of the illogical to assert that a 
sovereign who had worked so consistently for 
the economic uplift of his people should from 
motives of personal ambition impose upon that 
same people all the burdens and horrors incident 
to modern warfare on a large scale. That all the 
achievements of the last twenty-five years must be 
lost in a few days tells its own story. Successful 
in the end or not Germany must make terrible 
sacrifices and stand tremendous losses. 

To picture the Emperor of Germany as a blood- 
thirsty war-lord is the most arrant nonsense. The 
telegrams that were exchanged between the Em- 
peror and the Czar show only too clearly the ex- 
tent to which the former was willing to go to pre- 
serve the peace of Europe. The limits of Ger- 
many's honor and national integrity alone re- 
strained him. 

To assume that the Emperor declared war in the 
present instance against the will of the German 
people is equally absurd. The Germans are a 
military nation. Their position in relation to 
the other nations of Europe has made them such. 
They are soldiers to a man and the problems of 
Germany are known to every German subject. 
When Russia began to mobilize, it meant war 
and every German knew and expected war. Had 
Germany been under a republican form of govern- 



282 



EUROPE AT WAR 



ment hostilities would have been declared just 
the same. 

This is not, on the part of Germany a war of 
conquest. It is not a Napoleonic war to satisfy 
the personal ambitions of an emperor. It is a 
defensive war, with Germany's national life at 
stake. 

It is difficult to forecast the outcome of what 
is already proving to be the greatest conflict in 
the history of civilized nations. There is no 
more reason to assume as yet that Germany will 
emerge from it completely triumphant than there 
is to assert as a foregone conclusion that the 
allied armies will destroy the German and Aus- 
trian combinations. The great machine which 
in turn crushed Denmark in 1864, Austria in 
1866, and France in 1870 is again under way, and 
it only remains to be seen whether the modern 
engines of destruction can stop the massed attack 
of the most wonderful infantry that has ever 
marched on a field of battle. 

Out of it all will come — what? 

In the event of a German triumph, we may look 
confidently fonvard to the steady advancement 
and increase of those arts and sciences which have 



given German civilization a foremost place in 
Europe and have done so much for the other 
peoples of the earth. In the event of a German 
defeat, I can see only disaster. 

The temporary supremacy of Great Britain 
upon the seas and in commerce, will pass with the 
fruition of the seeds which she herself has sown. 
The Asiatic has been aroused, and the coming 
struggle between the East and the West has been 
hastened by unnumbered years. The Slavic 
advance against Germany will be accomplished, 
but in so far as it spells only Russia, it will also 
be temporary. When the hordes of China and 
Japan directed from Tokyo, and the uncounted 
millions of India, are turned against Europe and 
our own beloved land, the real meaning of the 
forces now at work for the destruction of Ger- 
many will be felt. Swallowed up in the general 
movement of Asia westward, Russia will be but a 
tool in the hands of her still more eastern con- 
querors. 

When that day comes, we shall turn back to 
the Month of August, in the Year of Our Lord 
and Saviour Nineteen Hundred and Fourteen, 
and read the first chapter of the cataclysm. 



*A VISION OF ARMAGEDDON 

BY H. G. WELLS 



AT LAST the intolerable tension is over. 
Europe is at war. The monstrous vanity 
that was begotten by the easy victories 
of 1870-71 has challenged the world. Germany 
prepares to reap the harvest that Bismarck 
sowed. That trampling, drilling foolery in the 
heart of Europe that has arrested civilization 
and darkened the hopes of mankind for forty 
years — German imperialism and German mil- 
itarism — has struck its inevitable blow. 

The victory of Germany will mean the perma- 
nent enthronement of the war god over all human 
affairs. The defeat of Germany may open the 
way to disarmament and peace throughout the 
earth. To those who love peace there can be no 
other hope in the present conflict than her defeat, 
the utter discrediting of the German legend — 
ending it for good and all — of blood and iron, the 
superstition of Krupp, flag-wagging, Teutonic 
Kiplingism, and all that criminal sham efficiency 
that centres in Berlin. 

♦Reprinted by permission from the New York Times. 



Never was a war so righteous as is the war 
against Germany now; never any State in the 
world so clamored for punishment; but be it 
remembered that Europe's quarrel is with Ger- 
many as a State, not with the German people, 
with the system, not with the race. 

The older tradition of Germany is a pacific, 
civilizing tradition. The temperament of the 
mass of the German people is kindly, sane, ami- 
able. Disaster to the German army, if it is 
unaccompanied by such a memorable wrong as 
dismemberment or intolerable indignity, wiU 
mean the restoration of the greatest people of 
Europe to the fellowship of the western nations. 

The role of England in the huge struggle is as 
plain as daylight. We have to fight if only on 
accoimt of the Luxemburg outrage. We have 
to fight. If we do not fight England will cease 
to be a country to be proud of and we shall have 
a dirt bath to escape from. 

But it is inconceivable that we should not fight, 
and, having fought, then in the hour of victory 



A VISION OF ARMAGEDDON 



283 



it will be for us to save4;he liberated Germans from 
vindictive treatment, to secure for this great 
people their right to a place in the sun as one 
united German-speaking State. 

First, we have to save ourselves and Europe, 
and then we have to stand between the Germans 
on the one hand, and Cossack revenge on the other. 

For my part, I do not doubt that Germany and 
Austria are doomed to defeat in this war. It may 
not be a catastrophic defeat, though even that is 
possible, but it will be a defeat. There is no destiny 
in the stars and every sign is false if this is not so. 

They have provoked an overwhelming com- 
bination of enemies. They have underrated 
France. They are hampered by bad social and 
military traditions. The German is not naturally 
a good soldier. He is orderly and obedient, but 
not nimble or quickwitted. Hence his sole con- 
siderable military achievement is his not very 
lengthy march to Paris in 1871. 

The conditions of modern warfare have been 
almost completely revolutionized and in a di- 
rection that subordinates massed fighting and 
unintelligent men to the rapid initiative of in- 
dividuaUzed soldiers. 

On the other hand, since those years of dis- 
aster, the Frenchman has learned the lesson of 
humility. He is prepared now sombrely for a 
similar struggle. His is the gravity that precedes 
astonishing victories. In the air, in the open 
field, with guns and machines, it is doubtful 
if any one fully realizes the superiority of his 
quaUty to the German. 

This sudden attack may take him aback for a 
week or so, though I doubt even that; but in the 
end, I think, he will hold his own even with- 
out us, and with us I venture to prophesy within 
three months from now his tri-color will be over 
the Rhine, and, even suppose his line gets broken 
by the first rush, even then I do not see how the 
Germans are to get to Paris or anywhere near 
Paris. 

I do not see how, against the strength of mod- 
ern offensive and the stinging power of an intel- 
ligent enemy in retreat, of which we had a little 
foretaste in South Africa, the e.xploit of Sedan 
can be repeated. 

A retiring German army, on the other hand, 
wiU be far less formidable than a retiring French 
army, because there is less devil in it, because it 
is made up of men taught to obey in masses, be- 



cause its intelligence is concentrated in old, 
autocratic officers; because it is dismayed when 
it breaks ranks. 

The German Army is everything the conscrip- 
tionists dreamt of making our people. It is, 
in fact, an army about twenty years behind the 
requirements of contemporary conditions. 

ISSUE WITH RUSSIA MORE DOUBTFUL 

On the eastern frontier the issue is more doubt- 
ful because of the uncertainty of Russian things. 
The peculiar military strength of Russia, the 
strength she was never able to display in Man- 
churia, Ues in her vast resources of mounted men. 

A set invasion of Prussia may be a matter of 
many weeks, but the raiding possibUities in 
Eastern Germany are enormous. 

It is difficult to guess how far a Russian attack 
will be directed by intelligence, how far Russia 
mil have to blunder very disastrously, indeed, 
before she can be put upon the defensive. 

A Russian raid is far more hkely to threaten 
Berhn than a German to reach Paris. 

Meanwhile there is a struggle on sea. In that 
I am prepared for some rude shocks. The Ger- 
mans have devoted an amount of energy to the 
creation of an aggressive na\y that would have 
been spent more wisely in consolidating their 
European position. It is probably a thoroughly 
good navy, and, ship for ship, the equal of our 
own, but the same lack of invention, the same 
relative uncreativeness that kept the German 
behind the Frenchman in things aerial made him 
follow our lead in naval matters, and if we erred, 
and I believe we have erred, in overrating the 
importance of big battleships the German has at 
least very obligingly fallen in with our error. 

The safest and most effective place for the 
German fleet at the present time is the Baltic 
Canal. Unless I underrate the powers of the 
waterplane there is no safe harbor for it. If it 
goes into port anywhere that port can be mined 
and bottled up. Ships can be destroyed at leisure 
by aerial bombs, so that if they are on this side 
of the Kiel Canal they must keep at sea and 
fight, if we let them, before their coal runs short, 
a battle in the open sea. 

NAVAL TIGHT AGAINST ODDS 

In that case their only chance will be to fight 
against odds, with every prospect of a smashing, 



284 



EUROPE AT WAR 



albeit we shall certainly have to pay for victory 
in ships and men. In the Baltic we shall, notably 
get at them without the participation of Denmark, 
and their ships may have considerable use against 
Russia, but in the end even there the mine, aero- 
plane, and destroyer should do this work. 

So I reckon that Germany will be held in the 
east and that the west wUl get her fleet practically 
destroyed. 

We ought also to be able to sweep her shipping 
off the seas and lower her flag forever in Africa, 
Asia, and the Pacific. All the probabilities seem 
to me to point to that. 

There is no reason why Italy should not stick 
to her present neutrality. There is considerable 
inducement at hand for both Denmark and Japan 
to join in directly they are convinced of the failure 
of the first big rush on the part of Germany. 

All those issues will be more or less definitely 
decided within the next two or three months. 



By that time, I believe, German imperialism will 
be shattered, and it may be possible to anticipate 
the end of the armaments phase of European 
history. 

France, Italy, England, and all the smaller 
Powers of Europe are now pacific countries. 
Russia, after a huge war, will be too exhausted 
for further adventure. Shattered Germany will 
be revolutionary. Germany will be as sick of the 
imiforms and imperialism idea as France was in 
1871, as disillusioned about predominance as 
Bulgaria is to-day. 

The way will be open at last for all these West- 
ern Powers to organize a peace. 

That is why I, with my declared horror of war, 
did not sign any of these "stop the war" appeals. 

Declaractions that have appeared in the last 
few days are that every sword is drawn against 
Germany. Now is the sword drawn for peace. 

London, Aug. 4. 



*GIVE GERMANY FAIR PLAY 

BY HUGO MUNSTERBERG 



THE European war broke into the calm of 
our summer quick and unexpected, but 
still quicker and still more unexpected by 
any lover of fair play was the vehement turn of 
the American press for the Slavs and against the 
Germans. Whatever Germany or Austria did was 
seen through the spectacles of the enemy. Their 
motives appeared tainted, their actions against 
the rules of the game; they had no just cause and 
no morals, they were not worthy of American 
sympathy. Of course, some pretext can be found 
for every partiality, and it is not difficult to fore- 
see how this game can be played on. If Germany's 
enemies are defeated the American nation must 
be with them because it is always with the weak- 
est, always with the under dog; but if they are 
victorious the American nation will be with 
them, too, because it loves a spirited fighter, and 
a triumphant power. Yet it is just Germany 
which dares a spirited fight and which is the 
weaker, forced to fight against heavy odds. 

HOW THE NEWS HELPS 

The naked news which the cable brings helps 
on this cruel game. The average American reader 
*Reprinted by permission from the Boston Herald. 



has no idea how much anti-German feeling is in- 
fused into the so-called facts which are sent over 
the ocean. He sees that the news is dated from 
Vienna or Berhn and he does not know that most 
of the American correspondents on the continent 
for many years have been enthusiastic English- 
men, who serve first of all their home papers. 
And even the few American journalists on the 
spot devote most of their energies to London 
papers and receive from there the daily advice 
and the daDy prejudice of English rivalry. 

But does the news at least find fair play when 
it arrives? What the French or the English 
government proclaims stands gloriously on the 
first page; what the German government replies 
is hidden somewhere in a corner of the fifth. 
When England interprets German action in 
Luxemburg as the violation of agreements it is 
told in inch-large letters; when Germany proves 
that it had the right it comes out in the smallest 
print. When Germany goes through Belgium, 
America shares the indignation of England, to 
which it serves as a welcome pretext. But that 
France went through Belgium and Holland first is 
kept secret in most American papers. This means 
playing the reporter's game with loaded dice. 



GIVE GERMANY FAIR PLAY 



28s 



THE POWERS OF KINGS 

Yet, even the kind of news which is dumped on 
us does not justify the editorial temper with which 
especially the New York papers appeal to our 
sense of superiority over medieval Germany. 
Typical is the way in which the decisions and 
deeds of emperors are always treated as if they 
were purely personal autocratic caprices without 
inner contact with the national life. This better 
than anything whips up the democratic spirit of 
the new world. Who stops to consider that in 
the hour of war, and even of danger before the 
war, the American President has more personal 
power than any emperor except the Czar, and 
even he would be swept away if he obstructed the 
will of the people? Children like to fancy that 
kings run about with golden crowns on their 
heads and with purple cloaks. 

It is hardly less childlike to imagine that a pro- 
clamation like that of the Emperor Franz Josef 
was written by him personally, and to construe 
it as if he made war on Servia because he wanted 
to take personal vengeance for the murder of his 
heir. Even the distant spectator ought to have 
seen that the whole tremendous pressure of the 
Austrian nation was necessary to force the old 
emperor into a war which he resisted with all the 
instincts of a man who has suffered much and 
who wants at last his peace and rest. 

Is it really possible to doubt that Emperor 
William desired nothing but honorable peace 
with all the world? For twenty-five years he has 
been the most eificient power for European peace. 
He has done more for it than all the European 
peace societies together, and, however often the 
world seemed at the verge of war, his versatile 
mind averted the danger. He knew too well, and 
the whole German people knew too well, that the 
incomparable cultural and industrial growth of 
the nation since the foundation of the young em- 
pire would be horribly threatened by the risks of 
war. Can any sane man really believe the slander 
that all was a long-prepared game which Austria 
was to start, and in which Germany would wUf uUy 
force the furies of war into the Russian realm? 

EVERY EFFORT IN VAIN 

No, this time every effort was in vain, and all 
good will for peace was doomed because the issue 
between the onrushing Slavic world and the 
German world had grown to an overpowering 



force. The struggle between the two civilizations 
was imminent, and where such a historic world 
conflict arises the will of individuals is crushed 
until they serve the will of the nations. The 
Slavs of the southeast, the Servians, had defeated 
their oppressors, the Turks. It was inevitable 
that their new strength should push them to am- 
bitious plans. It was necessary that they should 
aim toward a new great Slavic empire which would 
border the sea and embrace Austria's Slavic pos- 
sessions. That had to mean the end of Austria, 
the crumbling of its historic power. Such an 
inner, passionate conflict, such an issue of exist- 
ence, must lead to explosions. 

SLAV AGMNST GERMAN 

Servians kill the archduke. That was Austria's 
opportunity for an effort to crush the power which 
aimed toward its downfall. But it was no less 
historically necessary that the largest Slavic 
nation, the Russians, should feel that Servia's 
cause was their own. Russia knew well that 
while it had recovered from the wounds of the 
Japanese war the Slavic strength was still unequal 
to that of the German nations, but it knew also 
that it could rely on France's latent longing to 
revenge itself for Alsace and on England's grumbl- 
ing jealousy of the great German rival in the 
world's markets. At last the chances seemed 
splendid to strike the long delayed blow of the 
Slavic world against the German. The Czar was 
unable to resist the gigantic pressure of the hour; 
his Government mobilized against both Austria 
and Germany. 

WHY BLAME THE KAISER? 

Is there really any sense in blaming the Ger- 
man emperor for actually declaring war, when the 
Russian hostile preparation was evident, before 
its slow mobilization was completed and before 
Germany by such loss of time had been brought to 
certain destruction? Four times he urged the Czar 
to abstain from the moving of the Russian troops 
to the frontier; most unwillingly he undertook to 
urge Austria to new negotiations. But the world 
contrast of the two civilizations was too deep; 
Russia could not forego its unique chances, and so 
it continued passionately its armaments, trusting 
that the French guns would start of themselves. 

The German emperor would have shamefully 
neglected his duties if he had quietly waited until 



286 



EUROPE AT WAR 



the Russian armies were brought together from 
the far East. He had to strike as soon as the 
war was certain. He therefore had to go through 
the formality of declaring war, but it was Russia 
which made the war, and it was part of Russia's 
war making that it forced Germany to declare the 
war first. America undertook without such 
a deep inner conflict a punitive expedition against 
Mexico, not unlike that of Austria against Servia. 
If at that time Japan had declared that it could 
not tolerate such hostility to Mexico and had 
sent all its warships toward California, would the 
President have genially waited until the Japanese 
cruisers entered the Golden Gate, instead of 
putting an ultimatum to the Mikado saying that 
unless the ships stopped it would mean war? 

NEITHER COULD HELP IT 

In this historic situation neither Russia nor 
Germany could really act otherwise. The great 
conflict of civilizations was necessarily stronger 
than the mere wishes of peaceful indi^dduals. 
But if it is such a gigantic confhct of Slavic and 
Germanic culture, the sympathies of the progres- 
sive American nation ought not to be so wilfully 
misled and ought not to be whipped into the camp 
of the Cossacks. Americans ought not to rejoice 
when the uncultured hordes of the East march 
over the frontier and aim toward the most eastern 
German city, toward Konigsberg, the town of 
Immanuel Kant. 

If this war means such an inevitable conflict of 
the Slavic and the Germanic world, at least it 
ought to be clear to every one who can think his- 
torically that it belongs to the type of war for 
which the world as yet knows no substitute, the 
one type of war which in spite of the terrible losses 
is ultimately moral. Surely no comment on this 
fight of the nations is more absurd than the fri- 
volous cry that this is an immoral war. Every 
war for commercial ends or for personal glory or 
for mere aggrandizement or for revenge, may be 
called immoral, and thus the feelings with which 
Frenchmen and Englishmen join the Slavic forces 
might justly be accused. But both Slavs and 



Germans stand here on moral ground, as both 
are willing to sacrifice labor and life for the con- 
servation of their national culture and very exist- 
ence. Since the days of Napoleon Germany has 
never gone into a war which was more justified 
by the conscience of history. 

THE FLIGHT OF ITALY 

To be sure, there is no lack of elements in this 
war which do hurt the moral feeling. In victory 
or defeat Germans will hardly forget the flight 
of Italy which, under the flimsiest subterfuges, 
has deserted its allies in the hour of need. And 
immoral above all is the eSort of the world to 
strangle the spirit of Germany by the mere num- 
ber of enemies. That truly is no fair, no moral 
fight, when Germany and Austria are not to stand 
against Russia and Servia alone, which together 
have a population equal to that of the two op- 
ponents, but are also attacked from behind by 
France and England, by Japan and perhaps Rou- 
mania and last, but not least, by the misled public 
opinion of America. 

And this answers at once the pointed question 
which many American papers have discussed 
since the war began, the question whether the 
whole system is not fundamentally wrong, 
whether the armaments which were planned to 
protect the countries and to keep the balance and 
harmony have not thrown them into a destructive 
war, and whether it would not have been better 
to rely on international arbitration throughout 
the world. The grouping of this war shows why 
Germany would have trampled on her own sacred 
rights if she had laid the armor away and had relied 
on the judgment of the other nations. Would she 
have had the slightest chance for a fair judgment 
if political jealousy, economic rivalry, the vanity 
of revenge, and the aversion of a lower culture had 
been combined against her in an unholy alliance? 
The jury would have been packed, prejudices 
would have swept the court room. No; unless 
the Cossacks with their pogroms were to crush 
the culture of Germany she had simply no resort 
left but to trust in her sword and in her prayer. 



ANNOTATED LIST OF HELPFUL BOOKS 



WAR MANUALS 

The World's Work War Manual of the Great Con- 
flict of 1914, with 100 illustrations, maps, and a complete 



reference index. Edited by Arthur W. Page. Doubleday, 
Page & Co. 25 cents (paper), 50 cents (cloth), $1.00 
(leather). 
War Gazetteer, compiled by Charles McD. Puckette 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 



287 



and Carrington Weems. N. Y. Evening Post. 15 cents, 
paper. 

TRIPLE ALLIANCE 

The Memoirs of Francesco Crispi. Edited by Thom- 
as Palamenghi-Crispi. 3 vols. Doran. $10.50. 

The third volume, — particularly timely just now, — 
contains a history of the negotiations at the Congress of 
Berlin. 

The Borderland of Czar and Kaiser. By Poultney 
Bigelow. Harper. $2. 

A stimulating and entertaining account of travels in 
eastern Europe along the Austro-Russian and Russo- 
German frontiers. 

Poland of To-Day and Yesterday. By Nevin O. 
Winter. Boston: L. C. Page. 487 pp., ill. $3. 

A review of the history of the land and people, past and 
present, outlining the causes which resulted in the parti- 
tion, and a survey of social, poUlical, and economic condi- 
tions of to-day, with relation to the three partitioning 
powers, Germany, Russia, and Austria. 

TRIPLE ENTENTE 

Thirty Years: Anglo-French Reminiscences, 1876- 
1906. By Sir Thomas Barclay. (Houghton, Mifflin. $3.50. 

A stimulating account of the Entente Cordiale from 
within, by one of those who contributed largely to establish 
the now famous rapprochement between England and 
France. 

England and the Orleans Monarchy. By Major 
John Hall. Dutton. $4. 

A piece of diplomatic history detailing the creation of 
Belgium as a neutral state by the Five Powers, and the 
estabUshment of the Entente Cordiale between France and 
England. 

Common Sense in Foreign Policy. By Sir Harry 
Johnston. Dutton. $1.25. 

An account of the problems faced in shaping Great 
Britain's policy toward France, Germany, Austria- 
Hungary, Russia, the East, and America. 

ENGLAND 

Impressions of British Life and Character. By 
Meherban Narayanrao Babasaheb. Macmillan. 240 pp., 
ill. $2.25. 

The Hindu chief gives a series of sketches and impressions 
from the standpoint of the traveler, of British Ufe and 
character compared with people and habits of India. 

England Invaded. By Edward Ford and Gordon 
Home. Macmillan. 371 pp., iU. $2. 

A serious and well-founded forecast of what would hap- 
pen in case a German army landed on the English coast. 

A History op England and Greater Britain. By 
Arthur Lyon Cross. Macmillan. 1,165 PP- $2.50. 

This excellent history of England from Roman days to 
the middle of the present year, and covering more than 
1,100 pages, appears very opportunely at the present time. 

The Day of the Saxon. By General Homer Lea. 
Harper. 249 pp. $1.80. 

This is a brilliant analysis of the part played by Saxon 
civiUzation in the world's history and a tribute to its great 
achievements. 

The History of English Patriotism. By Esme 
Wingfield-Stratford. Lane. 2 vols. 1,286 pp. $7.50. 

A review of the great fervid moments of British history 
from the defeat of the Spanish Armada to the Battle of 
Trafalgar. 

The Britannic Question. By Richard Jebb. Long- 
mans, Green. 262 pp. 35 cents. 

How to effect a closer and permanent union between the 
self-governing states of the British Empire is the text of 
Dr. Jebb's monograph. 



The Passing of Empire. By H. Fielding-Hall. Mac- 
millan. 307 pp. $2.50. 

This discussion of India and its relation to the British 
Empire is of particular significance now when sedition is 
rife in Hindustan, and the shadow of the Russian bear per- 
sists, despite the fact that Russia happens to be the ally of 
England in the present conflict. 

Social Forces in England and America. By H. G. 
Wells. Harpers. 415 pp. $2. 

According to Mr. Wells himself this gives "a fairly com- 
plete view of all my opinions." 

When William Came. By H. H. Munroe. Lane. 
322 pp. _ $1.25. 

A vivid and appealing, although imaginative story of 
what would happen to England if the Germans conquered 
her and began to alter the processes of government to the 
HohenzoUern pattern. 

England and the English. By Price Collier. Scrib- 
ner. $1.50. 

Entertaining studies based on long acquaintanceship. 
Fair and appreciative. 

FRANCE 

How France is Governed. By Raymond Poincarfi 
McBride, Nast. 376 pp. $2.25. 

The President of the French Republic in this volume gives 
us discussions of elementary civics as applied to French 
political life, tracing the history of the administrative 
machinery of the French Government, national and local. 

France Under the Republic. By Jean Charlemagne 
Bracq. Scribner. 376 pp. $1.50. 

An attempt to gauge the great pohtical experiment of 
France during the last four decades, and to make an in- 
ventory of the constructive and reformatory work of the 
RepubUc. 

SoLTRCE Problems of the French Revolution. By 
Fred Morrow Fling and Helen Dresser Fling. Harpers. 
338 pp. $1.10. 

A summary of documentary and other evidence. 

France from Behind the Veil. By Paul Vassili. Funk 
& Wagnalls. 396 pp., ill. $3.75. 

A chronicle of the social and pohtical hfe of France for 
half a century beginning with the reign of Napoleon III 
and closing with the Paris of " the day before yesterday." 

GERMANY 

German Sea-Power. By Archibald S. Kurd and Henry 
Castle. Scribner. $3.25. 

A book which may be said to ask the question "Will 
Anglo-Saxon or German civiUzation predominate in the 
world?" According to the authors, neither the United 
States nor Great Britain has thoroughly understood the 
causes for the present naval and economic growth of the 
German Empire, and in explanation they take the ground 
that Germany has a maritime history and possesses mari- 
time instincts of which her naval development is an out- 
come. 

History of the German Struggle for Liberty. By 
Poultney Bigelow. Harper. 4 vols. $10.50. 

An account of the heroic moral and spiritual, as well as 
physical warfare which the German people waged to ob- 
tain the degree of hberty that they now possess. 

Germany and the Germans from an American Point 
OF View. By Price CoUier. Scribner. 602 pp. $1.50. 

One of the best discussions of the German people and 
their character and problems which has appeared in recent 
years. An unusually intimate knowledge fitted Mr. Collier 
for the task. A significant sentence at the end of the chap- 
ter on Frederick to Bismarck is, "We shall have war when 
the German Kaiser touches a button and gives an order, 
and the German people will have no more to say in the 
matter than you and I." 



288 



EUROPE AT WAR 



Germany and the Next War. By F. Bernhardi. 
Longmans, Green. $3. 

This is a candid expression of the German purpose to 
predominate and created a great sensation in Germany 
when pubUshed, going through many editions in a short 
time. General Bernhardi does not merely produce a book 
in praise of war; he deUberately advocates not only pre- 
paration for war, but also war itself. He writes from the 
standpoint of one who thinks that aspirations for peace 
threaten to poison the soil upon which the German people 
live. 

Germany of To-Day. By Charles Tower. Holt. 256 
pp. s° cents. 

A concise account written without any non-essentials. 

Germany and the German Emperor. By G. H. Fer- 
ris. Holt. 5 20 pp. $3. 

A useful summary of the characteristics and achievements 
of William of Germany. 

Men Around the Kaiser. By Frederick W. Wile. 
Lippincott. 279 pp., ill. Si. 75- 

A fascinating, illuminating picture of those earnest, effi- 
cient personalities in war, government, finance, industry, 
art, and diplomacy, who have made the German Empire 
what it is. 

Imperial Germany. By Prince Bemhard von Biilow. 
Dodd, Mead. 342 pp. $3. 

A story of the historical development of the German 
Empire, by the E.x-Chancellor, with a discussion of how 
the Germans built a great naval power, why they have 
expanded colonially, and what SociaUsm means to them. 

The German Emperor and the Peace of the World. 
By Alfred H. Fried. Doran. $2. 

A Nobel Prize essay of immediate timeliness. 

William of Germany. By Stanley Shaw. Macmillan. 
395 pp. $2.50. 

A sketch, by an Englishman, and for English readers, of 
the German Emperor. 

The Kaiser — a manual of information. Doubleday, 
Page. 1914. $1.00. 

A Character Sketch of Germany. Compiled and 
edited by M. Blakemore Evans and Elisabeth Merhaut. 
Heath. 237 pp., iU. Si. 

A picture of modem imperial Germany by means of a 
series of readings in German by eminent German authors. 

Germany. By A. W. Holland. Macmillan. 312 pp., 
ill. $2. 

A new recounting of the story of Germany's nationhood, 
and how it came to be, from prehistoric times to the saber 
rattling of Zabern, written in clear, interesting style, is the 
volume "Germany," in The Making of the Nation series. 
This volume is by A. W. Holland, of 0.xford, author of 
"Germany to the Present Day." 

Germany and Its Evolution in Modern Times. By 
Henri Lichtenberger. Holt. 440 pp. $2.50. 

A book to be recommended unconditionally for its com- 
prehensiveness, insight, and impartiality. 

Monarchical Socialism in Germany. By Elmer 
Roberts. Scribners. 200 pp., ill. $1.25. 

A succinct, workmanlike book on the efficient organiza- 
tion of the empire. 

Pak-Germanism. By Roland G. Usher. Houghton, 
MifHin. $1.75. 

Professor Usher, beginning with the great international 
movement, Pan-Germanism, considers the grounds for the 
existing jealousies between England and Germany, the 
relation of Russia, France, and Austria to the affair, the 
effects of the Balkan War upon the balance of power, and 
discusses with brilliance the relation of the United States 
to these new conditions in European diplomacy. 

AUSTRIA 

Austria: Her People and Their Home Lands. By 
James Baker. Lane. 310 pp., ill. S6.50. 

An excellent informational description of the polyglot 
character of the Austrian Emnire. 



Hungary: Its History and Revolutions. Macmil- 
lan. $1. 

A serviceable history ,'with a memoir of Kossuth added. 

Austria of the Austrians and Hungary of the 
Hltngarians. By L. Kellner and others. Scribners. 
$1.50. 

Packed full of information well put. 

Hungary's Fight for National Existence. By 
Baron Ladislas Hengehniiller von Hengervar. Macmillan. 
342 pp. $3-2S-, 

A very illuminating presentation. 

The Hapsburg Monarchy. By Henry Wickham Steed. 
Scribners. 304 pp. $2.50. 

An attempt to "dwell less upon the points of difference 
than upon the features and interests that are common to 
the peoples ruled by this famous house." 

ITALY 

Italy of the Italians. By H. Zimmem. Scribners. 
$1.50. 

A compact account of Italian characteristics and achieve- 
ments. 

CaVOUR ANT) THE MAKING OF MoDERN ITALY. By 

Pietro Orsi. Putnam. 385 pp., ill. $1.50. 

A sympathetic story of the career of the great Italian 
liberator and its significance. 

Italy's War for a Desert. By Francis McCullagh. 
Chicago: F. G. Browne & Company. 410 pp., ill. $2.75. 

Brilliant and comprehensive, but decidedly pro-Turkish. 

THE BALKANS 

The Servian People: Their Past Glory and Their 
Destiny. By Prince Lazarovich-Hrebelianobich. Scrib- 
ners. 2 vols. S5. 

A glowing statement of Servia's ambitions. 

Hellas and the Balkan Wars. By D. J. Cassavetti. 
Dodd, Mead. 368 pp., ill. $3. 

A study of Greek liistory during the past half century, 
particularly in its relation to the wars with Turkey and 
Bulgaria. 

Czar Ferdinand and His People. By John Mac- 
Donald. Stokes. S4. 

A careful, judicial study of the personality of the Czar 
of Bulgaria, with a brief history of the Bulgarian people, 
and much that is useful about the Bulgarian army. 

The Balkans. By William M. Sloan. Eaton & Mains. 
322 pp. $1.50. 

An exhaustive treatment of the causes, progress and re- 
sults of the late wars in the Balkans. 

Teie Balkan Peninsula. By Lionel M. Lyde. Mac- 
millan. Si. 40. 

A useful compendium of maps. 

RUSSIA 

Behind the Veil at the Russian Court. By Count 
Paul VassiH. Lane. 408 pp., ill. $4. 50. 

Intimate revelations of the social, political, and family 
life of the Russian royal family and their retinue. 

Russia and the Russians. By H. W. Williams. Scrib- 
ner. $1.50. 

An account of the political ascendancy and situation, and 
of the leading figures in Russian politics, as well as of the 
country's social and economic relations. 

History of Russia. By Vasilii Osipovich Kluchevsky. 
Dutton. 3 vols. $2. 50. 

Not a simple narrative of political or international hap- 
penings, but a remarkable'study of Russian social, economic, 
and international history based upon years of personal re- 
search in the available historical sources of the subject. 

Changing Russia. By Stephen Graham. Lane. 309 
pp., ill. $2.50. 

By a widely known traveler and scientific observer well 
acquainted with Russia. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 



289 



Economic History of Russia. By James Mavor. 
Dutton. 2 vols. $10. 

Russian history has been thoroughly rewritten within 
twenty years. It is a survey the importance of which can 
scarcely be overestimated. 

WAR 

War. By W. Douglas Newton. Dodd, Mead. 236 pp. 
$1.20. 

"Sensational and disgusting, because it is an account of 
the sensational and disgusting thing called war." There 
is an introduction by Rudyard Kipling. 

The Passing of War. By William Leighton Grane. 
Macmillan. 302 pp. $1. 

In this volume, which Mr. Grane calls "a study in things 
which make for peace," the text is given in a sentence of 
the late King Edward VII. of Great Britain: "I am con- 
vinced that as civilization advances, the influence of Chris- 
tian teaching will tend increasingly to inculcate the love of 
peace." 

War and Waste. By David Starr Jordan. Double- 
day, Page. 296 pp. $1.25. 

Dr. Jordan is one of the best known and most courageous 
advocates of disarmament and general peace. He has for 
years been devoting his energies and time to convincing the 
world that war does not pay. This is a graphic and keen 
presentation of the economic loss occasioned by war. 

The Human Slaughter House. By Wilhelm Lams- 
zus. Stokes. IIS PP- 5° cents. 

An extraordinarily keen analysis of the atrocities of war. 
All the deceptive glamor is stripped from battle and its 
horrors laid bare with shuddering, yet fascinating, 
strokes. 

The Balkan Wars 1912-19x3. By Jacob Gould Schur- 
man. Princeton University Press. 140 pp. $1. 

A compact history, illuminatingly written, of the two 
Balkan Wars of 1912-13, has been given by Dr. Jacob 
Gould Schurman, president of Cornell University. This 
little volume is one of "The Stafford Little Lectures." 

Our Navy. By Archibald Hurd. Warne. 270 pp. 
50 cents. 

An up-to-date, comprehensive history of the British 
navy, with figures and statistics particularly with regard to 
its development during the past twenty years. 

The Crimson Fist. By O. H. Neland. Boston: Bad- 
ger; 208 pp. $1.25. 

A brilliant indictment of war. The author "convicts" 
the home, the school, the church, the press, and govern- 
ment of molding the character of the individual " to a spirit 
of aggressive patriotism, and thus to love for war." 

Arms and Industry. By Norman Angell. Putnam. 
248 pp. $1.25. 

This companion volume to Mr. Angell's now famous book 
"The Great Illusion," concerns itself chiefly with the rela- 
tions and interrelations between modern states. While it 
treats chiefly of the moral and material factors of inter- 
national politics, it also discusses credit, miUtary force, 
and diplomacy. 

The World Set Free. By H. G. WeUs. Dutton. 
229 pp. $1.35- 

An elaboration of Mr. Wells's creed which has for its goal 
the end of war and the realization of a real parliament of 
the world. It crackles with Mr. Wells's best style. 

The Wine Press. By Alfred Noyes. Stokes. 49 pp. 
60 cents. 

A powerful argument in verse against war, with an 
epilogue that loftily visions the dawn of peace. 

THE TRADE OF THE WORLD 

The Trade of the World. By James Davenport 
Whelpley. Century. 436 pp., ill. $2. 

A comprehensive and stimulating account of the forces 
and facts that make up the activities of the great trading 
nations. 



INTERNATIONAL LAW 

A History of Diplomacy in the International De- 
velopment OF Europe. By David Jayne Hill. Long- 
mans, Green. Vol. III. 706 pp. $6. 

While not treating directly of the present conflict, or 
the causes that led up to it, Dr. Hill analyzes the forces that 
have guided the destinies of Europe for nearly two centuries. 

The Essentials of International Public Law. 
By Amos S. Hershey. Macmillan. $3. 

In the preface Dr. Hershey states that "the work aims 
to furnish the teacher and student with an up-to-date text 
adapted to the needs of the classroom, and also to present 
the speciaUst as well as the general public with a scientific 
treatment of the subject." 

THE AIR AS A BATTLEFIELD 

Airships in Peace and War. By R. P. Hearne. 
Lane. $3.50. 

The new edition of this standard work on the theoretical 
influence of aeronautics on war. 

The Airman. By C. Mellor. Lane. 123 pp., ill. $1. 

The Law of the Air. By Harold D. Hazeltine. 
Doran. 

POLITICS AND HISTORY 

Socialism and Democracy in Europe. By Samuel 
P. Orth. Holt. 350 pp. $1.35. 

A very brilliant and stimulating account of the progress 
of Socialism and social democracy throughout the continent. 

Social Progress in Contemporary Europe. By 
Frederic Austin Ogg. Macmillan. 384 pp. $1.50. 

An exhaustive and well-balanced account of the social 
advance of European peoples for a century. 

The Problem of Empire Government. By C. E. T. 
Stuart-Linton. Longmans, Green. $1.25. 

This contains several chapters on imperial defence, writ- 
ten nearly two years ago, prophesvnng the turbulent status 
of European governments now observed. 

The Influence of Monarchs. By Frederick A. 
M^oods. Macmillan. 422 pp. $2. 

"Only very rarely has a nation progressed in its political 
and economic aspects save under leadership of a strong 
sovereign." This is the text of the author. 

Le Probleme Mondial. By Albert Torres. Rio de 
Janeiro: National Library. 212 pp. 

A study of the motives that guide nations in their rela- 
tions one with the other, an especially interesting chapter 
being that on the Monroe Doctrine, by this Brazilian writer. 

Travel and Politics in Armenia. By Noel Buxton 
and the Rev. Harold Buxton. Macmillan. 274 pp., ill. 
$1.50. 

An account of the extensive experiences of a traveler 
among that strange people, the Armenians, who, because of 
mutual jealousies of the Great Powers, may be one of the 
focuses of the later portion of the present European war. 

Problems of Power. By William Morton Fullerton. 
Scribners. 323 pp. $2.25. 

A survey of the relations of the Great Powers of the 
world and an analysis of the national situation during the 
past quarter of a century, from the standpoint of conscious 
national aims and political cross currents. 

History of Our Times. By G. P. Gooch. Holt. 
256 pp. 50 cents. 

An excellent summary of the history of Europe for the 
past quarter of a century. 

FICTION. 

The Iron Year. By Walter Bloem. Lane. $1.23. 

A novel which recently created a great sensation in Ger- 
many, where it was read aloud by the Kaiser to the mem- 
bers of the royal family. 

Red Wrath. By John Oxenham. Lane. 416 pp. 
$1.25. 



290 



EUROPE AT WAR 



A story of the Franco-Prussian War dealing with many 
places now again the scene of war. 

Children of Alsace. By R^ne Bazin. Lane. 262 
pp. $1.30. 

This book shows the deep feeling of loyalty to France 
opposed to German rule in the conquered district. 

Frontiers of the Heart. By Victor Margueritte. 
Stokes. 345 pp. $1.25. _ 

A graphic story of Alsace, of a French woman who marned 
a German. 



The Last Shot. 
517 pp. $1.35- 



By Frederick Palmer. Scribner. 



A work of fiction written by an eye-witness of all the 
important battles of the last twenty years, in a number of 
which Mr. Palmer took part. A drama rather than a 
novel. 

Englishman's Home. By G. L. B. DuMaurier. 
Harper. $1.23. 

This play, describing the invasion of England, produced 
a great sensation on its first appearance in 1909. 



/ 




