u.h: 




to 



Household Science 
Department 
U^iv. of Toronto 



THE JOURNAL 

OF 

HOME ECONOMICS 



PUBLISHED BY 
THE AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 



VOL. VI, 1914 
COMPLETE IN FIVE NUMBERS 



BALTIMORE, MD. 

1914 



J 



7 




-1101370 



Of 



THE 

Journal^/Home Economics 



Vol. VI. FEBRUARY, 1914 No. i 



SOME POSSIBILITIES IN THE WORK OF MUNICIPAL 
VISITING HOUSEKEEPERS' 

Emma A. Win slow 

Visiting Housekeeper, Y. W. C. A., Cleveland, Ohio 

There is no longer a question as to the value of practical instruction 
in the home as a means towards social betterment. The standard of 
living in the individual home governs the standard of living in the 
community. This is constantly changing, and every effort that we 
can make to raise home conditions to a higher, healthier plane, can 
but react to the benefit of the group as well as the individual. 

For this reason much interest has recently been sho^\•n in the idea 
of having a staff of visiting housekeepers supported by the city or 
state, and at the servdce of the family of average means as well as those 
below the poverty line, who are already being partially cared for by 
the \nsitors of the various social organizations. If developed along 
certain lines, such work might best be used as a form of extension teach- 
ing, and be under the direction of the department of education. My 
personal opinion, however, is that it would have broader, bigger pos- 
sibilities if it were recognized as preventive health work and worthy 
of public support and development for that reason, rather than for 
its educational value alone. If it is established in Cleveland, it will 
probably be imder the direction of the welfare department which we 
hope to have, if the proposed new charter is approved by the voters. 
In New York City it is still unsettled whether it should rightly be 

' Presented at the Sixth .\nnual Meeting of the American Home Economics 
•Association, Ithaca, 1913. 



2 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

carried on under the auspices of the health department or the tene- 
ment house commission. It is expected that some experimental visit- 
ing housekeeping will be tried there this year; if so, we shall soon 
have some data which ^^'ill be of help to us in outlining the future de- 
velopment of this ver}"- \dtal kind of social work. 

During the winter of 1912-1913 some experimental \dsiting work 
was carried on in Cleveland in connection -udth regular Y. W. C. A. 
teaching, in order to show what might be accompUshed by a home 
\dsitor, trained in domestic science. For one day the teacher acted as a 
representative of the Associated Charities; on another day as a help- 
er to the mothers of some of the Day Nursery children, emphasizing 
especially with them, the proper care and feeding of the children when 
they are at home instead of at the nursery; at another time as a help- 
er to the Visiting Nurse Association in some of their cases where 
proper diet was felt to be an important part of the treatment. On 
another occasion charge was assumed (for the city) of a few families 
who had been recommended by the sanitary inspectors as being in 
need of assistance. This municipal work, especially, yielded some 
rather interesting experiences, and the value and importance of such 
work being carried out on a large scale by the city became more and 
more evident, while at the same time we became aware of the diffi- 
culties which will be encountered in estabhshing such work, unless it 
can be more definitely standardized than it is at present. 

First, we shall need to make a thorough survey of the field so that 
we may have full knowledge of conditions and be able to judge what 
is possible and wise to try to accomplish. We shall need to know just 
how we can most successfully reach the famiHes who need help, and 
just what and how to teach them. We shall need to develop a course 
for training women to be \'isiting housekeepers so that they will be 
able to secure the results that we have decided we want to obtain. The 
experience of those who have already been working along this line 
will be invaluable to us in further development, but one cannot help 
but feel that we are ready for a serious study of the possibilities of 
visiting housekeeping on a large scale, and that we can eventually 
make this exceedingly practical side of home economics as important 
in the social world as the more theoretical side has become in the 
educational world. 

Shiftlessness is not as yet recognized as a disease, but it certainly 
carries in its train a tremendous number of ills. Why is it not worthy 
of more careful diagnosis and treatment? And who is so likely to 



1914I Work of Municipal Visiting Housekeepers 3 

eliminate certain phases of it, as a trained visiting housekeeper? But 
she will have to be more than a working helper in the home, or the 
mere carrier of technical information . Shif tlessness may be largely due 
to ignorance, but the experience of social workers is that an apparently 
ignorant person is often not doing nearly so well as he or she knows 
how to do and could do if the effort were made. In order to give the 
necessary help in such a situation, the visiting housekeeper will need 
to understand the psychological, sociological, and physiological 
causes back of the lack of worldly success and well-being, and she will 
have to know how to plan and carry out a course of treatment which 
^vill bring the family up to a higher standard of individual and social 
efficiency. 

Just how shall this work be organized? It might be suggested that 
one or more \dsiting housekeepers be placed in a district, to work from 
a central station which could be used for the purposes of investigation, 
and also, during certain hours, as a place for consultation and in- 
struction, just as the city milk stations are now used as a place of 
instruction in child-feeding. 

The \'isiting housekeeper would always be ready to give practical 
help and ad\dce to anyone who requested it. At first it might be ad- 
visable for her to do routine inspection until she become thoroughly 
familiar with her district and its li\dng conditions, so that she could 
better judge in what neighborhoods and with what famiHes it 
would be most worth while to work. Besides working in cooperation 
with the other branches of the city health department, she should 
keep in close touch with the social organizations of her neighbor- 
hood so that she would know what else was being done for any family 
in whom she was especially interested, and also so that her type of 
specially trained services could be understood and called for wherever 
there was need. One can look forward to the time when a family 
not living according to suitable standards, will be reported to the 
visiting housekeeper, just as now a case of illness is reported to the 
visiting nurse and a case of destitution is reported to the charity 
organization society. 

An objection often made to the suggestion of having visiting house- 
keepers, is that they wiW. intrude on the privacy of the home, and 
interfere with the family life so that their visits will be resented by 
the family. Such may be the case when the visitor is without tact 
and judgment, and lacks the necessary training to make her quick 
in suggesting a method of treatment that will remove the >^Tong 



4 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

condition which she has criticized. With the majority of families co- 
operation is easily secured if one can prove to them that the instruc- 
tion will be worth while financially, socially, or physically. There 
are of course certain families whose cooperation it will be impos- 
sible to obtain, and yet whose present method of living does the most 
ultimate harm to the community. On the principle that any kind 
of a home is better for the children than any institution, we hesi- 
tate to break up these homes even though we know that they ought 
not to exist. Most of us, no doubt, can form a mental picture of this 
type of home. It has been suggested that a probation system be es- 
tablished for such a family so that they would be legally under the 
care of a visiting housekeeper. It would be difficult to say just how 
much she would be able to do with these delinquent parents, but 
it would certainly be an interesting problem to try to solve. Such 
coercion would probably not often be necessary, but it would seem 
that, if a family proves unwilling to accept the services of a visiting 
housekeeper, we should wait until there is legal sanction before we 
enter a home and try to assume control. Most often, judging from 
personal experience and the experience of others, the family will be 
glad to welcome assistance, just as we ourselves grasp at any oppor- 
tunity to learn how to simplify our living conditions. 

Let us consider the training which a woman will need before she 
can be worthy to call herself a "visiting housekeeper," or a "visit- 
ing home-maker." First of all, she will require a large fund of tech- 
nical information. She will need to have thoroughly grasped the 
theories and ideals which we have set before us in the study of the 
household arts, and then she must eliminate all that is not abso- 
lutely essential to their application. If ever a woman needs to make 
thorough motion studies of the ordinary household processes, it is 
she who is to teach them in the home of a busy woman where much 
must be quickly taught in the simplest, most elementary way. It 
is the exceptional mother who will try to repeat anything which has 
seemed complicated and difficult at the time when it was taught. 
We shall have to reduce our cooking and housekeeping methods to 
a minimum of labor and expense before they will be really practi- 
cal for this kind of work. Much has already been done, but there is 
still opportunity for valuable research which would mean much to 
many families. 

The visiting housekeeper, then, must be a domestic science ex- 
pert versed in "The Art of Right Living," and hers will have to be 



1914] Work of Municipal Visiting Housekeepers 5 

an all-round course in home-making, rather than one on which the 
emphasis is placed on any one subject. She will have to know about 
the sanitary care of the house, the essentials in personal and sex hy- 
giene, the proper care and feeding of the family, the wisest use of the 
family income, the easiest way to keep household accounts, the right 
way to launder, how to market and how to take care of the food when 
it is purchased, the hygienic choice and care of clothing, and the 
simple schemes for attractive house decoration. She must know how 
to show a family the way to get as much fresh air as possible into a 
house, and how to make the family want fresh air and enjoy it. She 
must be ready to teach the proper use and care of the plumbing, and 
she will have to know whether the plumbing has been installed ac- 
cording to law, or whether there are defects which can be reported 
and remedied. While inspection will be a minor phase of her work, 
still she should be quick to notice any violations of the city sanitary 
code, and should see that legal standards are observed. 

As was said at the beginning, a visiting housekeeper will need to 
be more than the mere carrier of technical information. When she 
has proved herself to be a true friend of her families by helping them 
to live better, happier lives, she will find that she has come to have 
a remarkable influence with them, and that they will look to her for 
information and advice on many subjects outside her own line. For 
this reason, our ideal \'isiting housekeeper will need to have a broad 
social training so that she will know how to develop the kind of all- 
round men and women whom we want for citizens. This she may 
help to do by interesting them in the various educational and recre- 
ational opportunities which are so often neither understood nor 
appreciated by them. 

Her work is not intended to take the place of other social and edu- 
cational work already being done, but will be most valuable as it sup- 
plements it and brings it closer to the individual families who are in 
need of it, and whom such agencies are trying to reach. 

Considering it from the home economics standpoint, no doubt all 
will agree that it will help to put the knowledge which we possess 
into practical application with a resulting benefical effect on the health 
and standards of living of both the present and the future generations. 
It cannot be too strongly urged that we use all our influence to bring 
home economics into the homes of both city and country through 
the agency of field-workers trained to be truly helpful home-makers. 



6 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

VISITING HOUSEKEEPING WORK IN DETROIP 

Mrs. Bessie Bishop Bothwell 

Visiting housekeeper, Associated Charities, Detroit, Mich. 

The work of the Visiting Housekeeper in Detroit was started as an 
experiment on Januar>' i, 19 13, by the Central District Advisory Com- 
mittee of the Associated Charities. The funds were solicited in small 
amounts from societies and individuals, in order that as large a num- 
ber as possible might be interested in the work. 

It took some time for the social workers to learn to use the house- 
keeper's services and for the first few weeks the work was very much 
hampered by the fewness of the cases referred to it. At the end of 
the first six months we find that the work is really far heavier than 
one person can possibly manage, and already definite plans have been 
made to enlarge it in the very near future. 

We found at the outset that the referring of cases to the Visiting 
Housekeeper, by the different cooperating organizations, made it pos- 
sible for her to gain a friendly entrance into the famihes. Perhaps 
the most valuable were the introductions given through our nurses 
and social workers, for they had already been of true help to the fam- 
ily in question; therefore, when they suggested to a mother that she 
allow some one else to come in and help her in the matter of diet and 
home-making, the Visiting Housekeeper foimd that the way had al- 
ready been paved, and she was sure of a more hearty reception than 
otherwise would have been accorded her. 

Of the 96 cases covered in the last six months' work, the largest num- 
ber, 38, were sent by the Babies' Milk Fimd, whose promoters were 
the first to recognize the value of the work and to find that interest in 
the child's welfare does not end when the child has reached its second 
birthday; but that the diet is as essential to the growing child as 
is to the baby the scientific milk formula, which has been ordered by the 
doctor and carefully prepared vmder the supervision of the nurse. 
Therefore a large part of the Visiting Housekeeper's duties has been 
to teach the mother how to prepare proper foods for the growing child, 
and what she should feed the older children. The doctor of the 
Franklin Street Settlement recently reported an improved condition 
of a little baby, with tendency to "rickets," who was referred to us 

' Presented at the Sixth Annual Meetmg of the American Home Economics 
Association, Ithaca, 1913. 



1 9 14] Visiting Housekeeping Work in Detroit 7 

by the baby's nurse, with the request that we show the mother how 
to prepare certain articles of diet, which the doctor had ordered, to 
supplement the milk formula. 

We find among many of our foreign families that the baby is weaned 
from a bottle of milk to a bottle of black coffee, and the overcoming 
of this custom, which has possibly been that of many generations, is a 
matter which takes not only tact, but time and perseverance. Many 
of our mothers know absolutely nothing of the value of cereals, veg- 
etables, and milk for their growing little ones, and in some cases the 
children live on bread and coflfee or on bakery goods. 

One of my favorite cases is typical of a large class that has great 
need for just the kind of help we try to give : The little woman is only 
twenty-seven and the mother of five children. After a miserable 
girlhood, with a drunken father, and three years in factory life, she 
married at the age of seventeen. Her husband is not strong and often 
loses his wages, $2 a day, through sickness. She was delighted to 
have some-one teach her to make bread, biscuits and muffins and to 
use dried peas, beans and cereals. When our work with her began 
her children were so thin and frail that they were pathetic, but under 
a wholesome diet they are gaining in weight and strength. This 
mother, after several visits from the Visiting Housekeeper, expressed 
her appreciation of the fact that the children were gaining under the 
new diet, by saying: "It was not that I was not willing to buy the 
things for the children, only nobody had ever told me what were the 
best things for me to buy." Here we have the opportimity to help 
a mother by carefully planning with her the use of a limited income. 
This family has probably shown greater improvement than any other 
for the reason that the mother is an intelligent woman, though former- 
ly untaught. The starting point was a desire to learn how to make 
bread, and many other issues have developed from this breadmaking 
lesson, until we feel that the general condition of the family is decided- 
ly better. 

Again, cases come to us by direct appeal. A man recently asked 
that his motherless children be placed in an institution. We per- 
suaded him to take hght housekeeping rooms in the house of a good, 
motherly woman. Twice a week after school, the oldest, a girl of four- 
teen, is given lessons in home-making for her father and brother, thus 
preserving the family life. 

Cases come, too, from the Visiting Nurses' Association. A typical 
one was that of a little Polish girl of twelve years, whom we in- 



8 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

structed in cooking and in caring for her father and five children, 
while her mother was confined to her bed. 

One of our famihes we found paying for two "light housekeeping" 
rooms in a dirty ''nd forlorn house. The mother, shiftless in the 
extreme, had no interest whatever in the condition of her home. We 
found the man drinking and contributing very little to the support 
of his family, and learned that their household possessions were in 
storage, held for nonpayment of charges. This time we took the man 
into our confidence and promised to find a new home for the family 
and to see that his wife kept the home in a better condition if he would 
in return work steadily and do for his family as he should. We found 
a good little six-room cottage and helped the mother to clean it. We 
got the furniture out of storage and put the house in good order. Dur- 
ing the five months which have elapsed, the man has been working 
steadily and taking care of his family and things in general have been 
running more smoothly. 

Another family was referred to us by one of our visitors because of 
its general shiftlessness which had brought it into debt and other 
difiiculties. In this case the man paid over all his wages each week 
to the Associated Charities, and from this sum the groceries, etc., were 
bought. The meals were planned by the Visiting Housekeeper. At 
the end of three months we found the family almost completely out 
of debt and the mother managing her own buying and keeping her 
living expenses within the amount which the Visiting Housekeeper 
allowed. This was a valuable lesson in economy to a shiftless woman, 
and a lesson which she will not soon forget. 

Another interesting case, referred to us by a church visitor, was 
that of a Syrian woman who wished to learn to make American bread. 
She so far appreciated the lessons and the spirit of the work that she 
expressed her gratitude by asking if she might act as interpreter for 
the Visiting Housekeeper whenever there should be need for such 
service. 

While there is much indifference to be met in many of the homes, 
we can but feel encouraged with the many cases where improvement 
is noted, and with the general feeling of friendliness that one finds on 
all sides. Even a woman who seem.ed to the local visitor to be the 
most hopeless of home-makers has come to the ofl&ce to ask for the help 
of the Visiting Housekeeper. This woman was referred to the Visit- 
ing Housekeeper by the Juvenile Court. There were nine children 
in the family, and the mother was shiftless and lazy as well as poor. 



1 9 14] Visiting Housekeepitig Work in Detroit 9 

The home was so badly kept that the children were constantly sent 
home from school on account of their filthy condition. A scrub 
woman cleaned them up thoroughly and gave the family a fresh start. 
In a week they were as dirty as ever and one of the girls was sent home 
from school with word from the teacher that "she needed a bath." 
"Indeed!" said her mother, "and LiUian will have no bath. Didn't I 
give her one last winter and she had pneumonia and it cost me $4? 
She will have no bath until warm weather." And not until her three 
girls had been removed from the home for three months, with a threat 
of permanent removal if the home was not improved, did she become 
meek enough to accept instruction. Now they have started to buy 
a new house and are in many ways making great efforts to improve 
conditions so that the children will be allowed to return. 

Personal hygiene plays a large part in the work of a Visiting House- 
keeper, and many httle helps and suggestions can be given, which 
are sometimes grasped by the mother, and again by the older children 
in the family. One Uttle girl, after her mother had been shown how 
to shampoo her hair (and she enjoyed the process), naively remarked 
that she had had "a bath in the tub once," and thought it a great event. 
The following week she was taken over to our dispensary, bringing 
her ovm clean clothes, and was given a thorough bath, shampoo, etc. 
The father and mother were so pleased with her general appearance 
that the baths can no longer be counted on the fingers of one hand. 

In the original plan, we did not outline any class work, feeling that 
the ground could be covered to better advantage in the homes; but 
we have found that more efficient work can be done by a combination 
of class and home work, and our classes are beginning to be a large 
part of our plan. 

One of the specially interesting features of this class work is our 
Hungarian Mothers' Class, which was originally established by the 
Babies' Milk Fund at the Solvay Guild Hall in Delray, a district large- 
ly Hungarian, where most of the work must be conducted through 
an interpreter. This class has suffered many vicissitudes. As the 
mothers bring their Httle ones, the attendance varies greatly. Of late 
the mothers have taken a much more lively interest and frequently ask 
a week or two ahead if the Visiting Housekeeper will show them how 
to prepare a certain food the next time. These meetings are of a very 
informal nature and seem to foster a good neighborhood spirit. The 
cooperation of the Baby Nurse, who is ever ready to lend her able 
assistance, is of vital importance. Her demonstration of the proper 



lo The Journal of Home Economics [February 

method of bathing a baby created as great an interest in the class as 
was created by the cooking demonstration, if not greater. We fre- 
quently talk to these mothers concerning the care of garbage, pre- 
venting of flies in t>.e house, and other topics of sanitation, while the 
meetings are f^jiven a social aspect by serving afternoon tea and the 
dish which has been cooked by the Visiting Housekeeper, recipes 
having been pre\dously typewritten in Hungarian. 

On the fifth of March we started our first Girls' Cooking class in 
our newly established Domestic Science Kitchen in the Associated 
Charities ofiices at Delray. It was attended by five of the older girls 
from the families under the care of the Visiting Housekeeper. Im- 
proved neighborhood life has manifested itself here by requests from 
the girls for permission to bring their friends who live next door or 
across the street, until now we have 36 girls enrolled in this one local- 
ity, and are holding three classes a week, ranging from ten to fourteen 
girls each, the number being limited by the size of our kitchen. The 
work in these classes differs from general public school work in several 
particulars. We do not have all the individual equipment which is 
used in public schools, choosing rather a good sized gas range and such 
cooking utensils as the girls would be likely to have in their own homes. 
The recipes are not for individual work but for quantities suitable for 
the average family, and always take into consideration economy and 
food value. The children work in groups of two or four and are al- 
lowed to take home the finished product. 

The question is frequently asked, "Why have this cooking class, 
when the same work is covered by our Public Schools?" The cook- 
ing lessons of the PubHc Schools begin in the A 6th grade, and thorough 
investigation has shown that many of our children are taken from 
school at fourteen and put to work without ever having reached this 
grade, which means they have never had the instruction we give. 
One very interesting experience in this work was a visit from one of 
our special teachers of deficient children. Out of one class of thirteen 
girls she recognized six as deficient children who had been pupils of 
hers. One of our ablest pupils had been with her in the 3d grade for 
three years and there was little hope of her being promoted, yet all 
her work with us had been so excellent that we had never discovered 
her deficiency. Frequently the children bring us some article of 
food that they have made at home by one of our recipes, and we find 
that, in nine cases out of ten, the dish made in the class is repeated 



1 9 14] Visiting Housekeeping Work in Detroit ii 

in the home. Many times we can reach the parents through the 
children, but if the older people cannot be reached, we have at least 
"sown the seed" in the rising generation and are sure that it will bring 
forth some fruit. 

Classes are taught by volunteer students from the domestic science 
department of the Thomas Normal Training School, whose direc- 
tors are always ready to furnish us assistance in our work. 

As no financial aid is given by the Visiting Housekeeper, the co- 
operation of other societies and individuals is necessary; and very 
frequently situations have been relieved, at our suggestion, by the 
material aid of the Associated Charities, the Babies' Milk Fund, the 
Poor Commission, church organizations, and philanthropic societies, 
as well as by private individuals who are either interested in the work 
generally, or in some particular family. 

In the month of May, 176 lessons were given and 42 other visits 
made in contrast to the 6 lessons and 51 calls in January, the first 
month of our work. Judging from such an increase, there is need 
for more systematic and organized effort in this line. An interesting 
feature of this work is that the family as a whole is considered, while 
in much other work of a similar character it must of necessity be 
the individual that is the center of interest. 

In classifying the calls from our cooperating agencies, we find they 
are of several types. The educational side where definite instruction 
is asked for; emergency work, as in case of sickness; and the general 
reconstruction of the home conditions. These are so often com- 
pletely interrelated that they can be profitably carried on together. 

Perhaps in no city in the country are the problems the same as those 
in Detroit. The unprecedented growth of the city, the doubling 
of its population in the past seven years, the hordes of foreigners 
arriving with the starting of each new automobile factory, all compli- 
cate our social problems. The housing problem alone is a matter 
of great anxiety. We are just beginning to realize that we have out- 
grown ourselves and that work must be done in a larger way. The 
scope of the work is unlimited, and a glance into the future, however 
vague and visionary in many of its aspects, points to a time when 
this work can be made to reach every need of the home, and all house- 
keepers will welcome the thought that in their hour of need they may 
turn for efifectual help to a staflf of scientifically trained Visiting House- 
keepers. 



12 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

TEACHING THE PREPARATION OF MEALS IN 
REGULAR CLASS WORK^ 

Margaret L, Durban 

Bufah, N. Y. 

The circumstance which made this work a necessity was the open- 
ing of an open air class in a regular school in November, 1910. The 
work, instead of being modeled and equipped on lines meeting the 
need of a different city under different circumstances, was simply 
opened with a room, a teacher and three children. A Domestic Sci- 
ence teacher was appointed, whose duties were to include planning 
and supervising the preparation of all food materials used in the open 
air class; and this phase of the special work was to be an important 
and vital one. 

Our first meal was prepared in the teachers' dressing-room and con- 
sisted of cream of tomato soup and bread and butter and was served 
to the children in their class room. The dishes and silver were bor- 
rowed and drawing paper was used for a table cloth. From such a 
beginning by gradual development and with most helpful assistance 
from the Director of Domestic Science, we concluded our first year 
in a properly equipped, bright, and cheerful combination dining-room 
and kitchen, where each day twenty children were served two lunch- 
eons and one dinner. Because of this combination form, our room did 
not lend itself to the ordinary equipment. In its place we had four 
kitchen tables, three dining-room tables, nine non-extension tables, 
chairs, cabinets, stove and sink. The cabinet devoted to china and 
glass was placed in the dining-room space; the one for kitchen utensils, 
supplies, and often-used equipment was near the stove and sink. The 
stove was a six burner, double oven type, affording sufl5cient space for 
the work. The room was made very attractive by the addition of 
a few plants or ferns, a picture or two and plenty of sunshine. 

When the work became well organized, proxision was made for 
classes. The usual procedure for organization could not be carried 
out, except for afternoon classes, because there was work to be done 
at once and that work was the preparation of a meal for twenty 
children. The ideals and aims of the work were those of the prescribed 

^ Presented at the Sixth Annual Meeting of the American Home Economics 
Association, Ithaca, 1913. 



1914I Teaching Meals in Regular Class Work 13 

course but the amount of actual class work was decreased. The 
uniforms appeared at the second or third lesson; the care of the kitchen 
utensils and the housekeeping all grew out of careful supervision and 
most willing attitude on the part of the girls. For the first month 
the menus were simple — Hamburg loaf, mashed potatoes, boiled 
carrots, bread and butter, and stewed prunes. The lesson plan re- 
solved itself into a work plan. The longer processes were begun and 
sometimes finished, or if there was a long cooking period, the shorter 
processes, such as setting the tables or spreading the bread and but- 
ter (always done for the children in order to save expense and time), 
were finished in the interval. General principles and rules were 
made plain by class discussion. The dining-room tables were used 
as desks and when the class was of the eighth or ninth grade, the 
note-book work was the same as that required of pupils in the regular 
classes. In such cases the lesson of the day was presented simply and 
concisely and the work thoroughly discussed while the food material 
was being prepared. Sometimes this was done with one group and 
sometimes with two, while a third group was preparing the dinner. 
The groups took turns in the kind of work they did. 

The fireless cooker played a prominent part in these lessons. When- 
ever possible, the meat or pork and beans or other vegetable proteid 
food was placed in the cooker the night before, making less work for 
the class period. 

Pleasing characteristics had many opportunities for development. 
Helpfulness, generosity, and unselfishness were constantly in demand. 
Personal responsibilities were easily shifted especially in the house- 
keeping work. However, it was the rule rather than the exception 
to find that girls remembered their duties and were ready and willing 
to do the work required to leave the kitchen as neat and attractive 
as they found it and ready to be used as an open air children's din- 
ing-room. 

The work, though perhaps not entirely satisfactory from a pedagog- 
ical standpoint, was most commendable from a home and practicable 
point of view, especially for younger children. The equipment was 
very homelike, the method of procedure familiar and the constant re- 
viewing of methods gave homework a firm basis. The food materials 
were economical, the combination of food principles well balanced 
and so simply prepared that the children were able to carry the whole 
process into the home. 



14 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

Some menus, typical of those served in the school follow: 

Scrambled Eggs Mashed Potatoes 

Beets Bread and Butter 



Beef Stew Carrots and Potatoes 

Stewed /.^pricots Bread and Butter 



Stewed Lentils Mashed Potatoes 

Cabbage Salad Bread and Butter 

The average energy value of a meal was iioo calories; the average 
cost was lo cents per person per day. 

These lessons were especially valuable to the pupils of the open 
air class, where the boys as well as the girls had opportunities to pre- 
pare the dinner. The work with the boys was indicative of the pos- 
sibilities there are for helping family dietary. Perhaps three-fourths 
of these children were victims of malnutrition, and this work opened 
the only channel for home reformation. We were constantly send- 
ing recipes, directions for combinations of food, and names of new 
foods — at least foods new to them — to the homes of the children 
and often the boys as well as the girls would be responsible for the 
preparation. Work along these lines is guided very largely by the 
personaUty of the teacher; and through love, patience, and an ap- 
preciation of detail, the work finds satisfactory results. There is 
reiteration, constant personal attention, and detail almost unending. 
Until system permeates the work and the daily changes affect only 
the net work, the routine seems difficult. But when the work finds 
direct application and gratifying results and is made educational — 
not menial — it finds wonderful enthusiasm and surprising ability 
even in young children. 



1 9 14] The Daily Meals 15 

THE DAILY MEALS AND HOW TO PLAN THEM 

Emma S. Jacobs 

Director of Domestic Science, Washington, D.C. 

It behooves the housekeeper at all times to study conscientiously 
the feeding of her family and in these days of high prices the necessity 
for so doing is becoming urgent. 

The amount of effort and calculation that must be expended in order 
to keep the outgo for food within reasonable limits compared with 
other family expenditures depends on the family income and the num- 
ber of people to be fed. It is not the purpose of this article to show 
how in cases of great need the largest possible amount of nourishment 
can be obtained for a given sum, but rather to deal with the food prob- 
lem as it presents itself to people of average income. 

We must have enough of the essential foods for our bodies, which are 
living machines, if we are to be a productive people. These machines 
transform the energy the sun has stored in the foodstujBfs into body 
substance, and into energy and work of various kinds. This human 
machine is a thinking and self-directing machine whose creative power 
is great, hence the food selected should be such as will meet its need 
with the least possible waste. The selection is not simply a matter of 
pleasing a capricious palate, important as is the function of the 
palate. 

As our foodstuffs are of higher price than heretofore we must know 
which foods will give the most energy for the least money and which 
are the most economical builders. To determine this we must know 
the composition of the various foods, and the value of the various con- 
stituents, then we must know the relative cost of foods and the quan- 
tity needed to give the energy required to keep the body in healthy 
working order. 

Composition of Foodstuffs 

Food materials are, with a few conspicuous exceptions such as sugar 
and salad oils, made up of many compounds, but in spite of the num- 
ber and variety of these constituents it is customary to group them 
under five heads or divisions: Proteins, fats, carbohydrates, mineral 
salts, and water. To distinguish them from the food material as a 
whole these compounds (particularly the first three) are often called 
nutrients. 



i6 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

Protein contains nitrogen, and since nitrogen is necessary for the 
formation of tissues, it is frequently called the tissue-building nutrient. 
Foods conspicuous for a high percentage of protein are lean meats, eggs, 
fish, poultry, cheese, dried beans, peas, cowpeas, and lentils. Not far 
below these foodb in percentage of protein contained are the cereals, 
oats, wheat, corn, and others. This statement should not be taken to 
mean that protein is necessarily in excess of other constituents in these 
foods. In meats, for example, even in those which are called lean, fat 
may run higher than protein; in cereals the percentage of starch is 
several times that of protein; and in the legumes (beans, peas, peanuts, 
and others) starch and often fat are high. Protein also supplies energy. 

Fats contain no nitrogen, and so can not be used for tissue building, 
though they do assist, as each cell must have some fat. Fats are useful 
chiefly for fuel. Foods conspicuous as being all fat or as ha\-ing a 
specially large percentage of fats are fat meats like bacon, or salt pork, 
butter, lard, nuts, cream, and peanut, olive, and cotton-seed oil. 

Starch, sugar, and cellulose (the principal carbohydrates) also con- 
tain no nitrogen and are fuel foods. Cellulose escapes digestion except 
when very young and tender, but when digested it serves as fuel. 
Foods having a large percentage of starch include the cereals and some 
legumes. Sugar exists not only as cane and maple sugar but in honey 
and in small percentage in fruits. Cellulose forms the framework of 
all plants; although, not digested unless )'Oung, it has a most impor- 
tant function in that it gives bulk to the mass of digested food and 
stretches the muscular walls of the alimentary tract, thus promoting 
peristalsis; it also spreads the digested nutrients over a wider surface, 
thus facilitating their absorption. 

Mineral salts are found in our foodstuffs, principally in the green 
vegetables, fruits, milk, and eggs. Some of them are needed for bone 
and others for tissue building; some to aid digestion; and some to main- 
tain the alkalinity of the body's fluids. As these are important proc- 
esses the articles of food which are rich in mineral salts must not be 
omitted from the diet. 

Water is found in all foods and the characteristic flavor of the food 
is due to the presence of sugar, mineral salt, or essential oil which is 
held in suspension or solution in it. 

It has been found from experience that the majority of people thrive 
best on a mixed diet. 

From the table on page 6i it vdW be seen that meat, eggs, cheese, 
dried peas and beans, cereals, nuts, and milk furnish most of the pro- 



1914] The Daily Meals 17 

tein necessary for building and of these the peas, cereals and nuts are 
cheaper than meat and eggs. The first contain much fiber from which 
the protein must be digested, hence for the majority of persons the 
building process is slower and more difficult. For this reason the 
meat diet has been relied on for tissue building. The protein of milk, 
eggs, and cereals is particularly adapted to the building of tissue, es- 
pecially after wasting disease, and these articles also contain much of 
the energy-making substance in the form of fat or starch. 

Those who have been accustomed to eating much meat protein, 
which at the present day is a high priced food, must be careful if they 
change to a more largely vegetable protein diet to do so gradually 
so that the various parts of the digestive system may have time to 
adjust themselves to the change. It is wise to learn to substitute leg- 
umes, cereals, cheese and nuts for part of the meat if excessive. 

Another important thing to consider when purchasing food is the 
amount of refuse or non-edible materials for which one pays. The 
proportion of these will often make a high priced article really a cheap 
one and a low priced one, expensive. Bone, fat and tough ends can be 
utilized but why pay for them the price of tender meat. A piece of 
shoulder, clod or round has little fat or bone; a piece of neck much 
fat and bone. A larger chicken or turkey has more meat in propor- 
tion to the bone and other refuse than a small one has. In a raw 
cereal one usually buys, for the same money, much more nutrient 
material than in a ready cooked one. In these days of fireless cookers 
the heat necessary to cook the cereal adds little to the cost of it. Low 
priced canned goods are often slack-filled cans or low quality goods. 
It is poor economy to buy overripe fruit simply because it is low priced. 
Much may have to be discarded during the process of picking over 
and thus the actual price be raised. This question of purchase is one 
which requires knowledge of values as well as close scrutiny to be sure 
that the full weight or measure and the quality paid for are given, but 
this lesson must be learned by every purchaser. 

Source of Energy 

All food nutrients, except the older cellulose, mineral salts, and water, 
are burned in the body, thereby yielding energy; but the amount of 
energy obtained from i ounce of fat is more than twice as great as that 
obtained from the same weight of either protein or carbohydrate. In 
order to get the benefit of the fuel foods there must be a large supply of 



i8 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

oxygen, hence those leading an indoor, sedentary life unless they take 
long walks or otlier out door exercise, must eat fat, starch, and sugar in 
moderation ; but life in the open air allows us to increase the amount 
of these foods. Protein compounds should not be depended upon to 
supply energy, although they contribute to the total the body receives 
from its food supply. 

Experience and experiment have shown that the food provided for 
a man of average weight supplies between 2 and 4 ounces of protein 
per day, and that if an average of about 3 ounces is secured by a man at 
moderate muscular labor he will be kept in a well nourished state. The 
amounts usually found in the average American diet would supply 
protein in about this range. When long periods of time are considered, 
the average amount per man per day has been found to be not far from 
3 ounces. 

Amount of Food 

A normal, healthy appetite is the best guide as to the quantity of 
food to be eaten, but in order to determine how much to purchase and 
prepare, find out the sex, the age, the weight, and the work of the vari- 
ous individuals composing the family, and calculate the amount of 
energy which the food must yield.^ Find out how much energy is 
stored in a imit portion of the various food materials, then combine 
these foods in such ways as to give a palatable meal containing the 
required amount of energy, taking care to have not more than 3 to 4 
oimces of protein per man. If one dish gives too much, substitute 
one having less protein but keep the energy value as showTi in the 
table below. 

The unit for measuring this energy is the calorie. It represents the 
work required to raise the temperature of i kilogram of water i°C. 
The average human body requires enough energy every hour to raise 
2\ pounds (a kilogram) of water from the freezing to the boiling point 
or as much as would result from the burning of two-thirds of a pound 
of coal. More energy is required by a man at work than by a man at 
rest; in winter than in summer; by a tall person than a short one; and 
where more energy is needed the amount of fat, starch and sugar rather 
than proteid should be increased. A woman needs four-fifths as much 
as a man and children three-fourths or less, according to the age and 
general condition. 

'See table on page 60. .\lso U. S. Dept. Agr., Office Expt. Stas., Bui. 28. The 
Chemical Composition of American Food Materials. 



1914] 



The Daily Meals 



19 



It has been calculated that a man of average height (5 feet, 10 inches), 
weighing 150 pounds needs: 





ENEBQT 


AMOUNT OF PBOTBIir 




Low 


High 


At rest 


calories 
2000 to 2500 
2500 to 3000 
3000 to 4000 


ounces 
if to 2 
2 to 2\ 
2^ t0 3 


ounces 

2it0 3 

3 t0 3i 
32 to 4 


At moderate work 


At hard work 





The whole amount of food for the day may be eaten in one, two, 
three or more meals as desired, but experience has shown that the 
average person is kept in good physical condition on three meals a 
day. The amount of food may be divided equally between the three 
meals but usually the breakfasts and luncheons are light meals. 



Dishes for the Meals 

The breakfast usually consists of a cereal, a fruit, a meat relish or 
eggs or fish, bread, butter, and a beverage; the lunch, of a substantial 
dish such as a stew, a milk soup, a hash or escalloped dish, bread, 
butter, a beverage, and a sweet relish of some kind. Dinner consists 
of a clear soup, a meat or fish of some kind, one starchy vegetable, 
such as potato, rice, or macaroni, and a green one, as asparagus, green 
peas, corn, string beans, or tomatoes, a salad or dish of greens, as 
spinach, kale, beet tops, or chard, bread, butter, and a dessert of some 
kind. 

If beef balls or mutton chops are served for breakfast do not serve 
meat for luncheon, and use either fish or chicken for dinner. 

The soup for luncheon is usually a milk soup but a milk soup may be 
served for dinner if the meat is a very light one. 

When meats rich in protein are served let the dessert be one having 
little protein, as for instance one of the fruit or gelatine desserts with 
or without cream. When the food served for breakfast and luncheon 
has been deficient in protein it is reasonable to use a custard dessert 
with a high protein meat. 

Fruit jellies, pickles and condiments add to the cost of the meals but 
do not add materially to the energy. 

Vegetables left from one meal may be made into a soup with milk, 



20 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

into an escalloped dish with a sauce, or into a salad. Meat left from 
a meal may be mixed with an appropriate sauce and served as a char- 
treuse or an escalloped dish, or it may be served as a salad, or mixed 
with gelatine which lias been flavored with herbs and meat juice, then 
chilled and served either as cold meat or a salad. 

The usual ratio between the nutrients is one part of protein, one of 
fat, and three or four of sugar or starch. The fat and carbohydrate 
may be increased or diminished as desired but the protein can be 
changed only within very narrow limits. 

The mineral salts cannot well be measured but if milk, cereals, and 
green vegetables form a conspicuous part of the diet the question re- 
garding the amount of mineral matter need never be raised. Be 
sure that enough water is taken between meals to insure thorough 
digestion of the food and elimination of the waste. 

Computing the Nutritive Value of the Meals 

The nutritive value of any given diet may be computed if we know 
the quantity of each food eaten and its composition. 

The method used in the laboratory^ is rather troublesome for house- 
keepers, and therefore simpler methods accurate enough for such pur- 
poses have been suggested. One of these is to keep track of the num- 
ber of portions of each food prepared perperson per meal or per day and, 
from a table showing the protein and energy content per portion of a 
variety of foods, determine the total protein and energy supplied by 
all of the foods used in the period under consideration. It is a sim- 
ple matter, for instance, to note the protein supplied by one or more 
portions of bread, one or more portions of meat, and so on, and add 
them together. Experts in hotels and restaurants who have to do with 
such things wall serv^e portions of cooked food which vary only slightly 
in weight from day to day for any given food. This is much less the 
case in homes where portions vary within rather wide limits, but as 
suggested above a housewife, by a little study, can find the approxi- 
mate weight per person of each food that she prepares. 

^ U. S. Dept. Agr., Office Expt. Stas., Circ. 46. The Functions and Uses of Food. 



1 9 14] Results of Study of Factors of Bread Making 21 

SOME RESULTS OF A STUDY OF THE FACTORS OF 
BREAD MAKING^ 

Anna W. Willi.vms 

Kansas Stale Agricultural College 

This Study was carried on in 1912 at the University of Illinois in 
the research laboratory of the Household Science Department. Its 
object was twofold, namely, to determine the influence of certain 
factors upon the quahties of bread, and to collect some data and es- 
tablish some facts which might serve as a basis for ultimate stand- 
ardization. There are many successful methods of making good 
bread, but there is a distinct lack of knowledge regarding the exact 
reasons for success or failure. It was with the idea that certain causes 
might be definitely proved to give certain results that this work was 
undertaken. 

Various processes were tested until one was established whicll^^d 
be depended upon to give uniform results and to give a loaf of bread 
which could be used as a unit of comparison. This was the Upcess 
finally chosen: i cup (260 cubic centimeters) of water, measured at 
room temperature, was warmed to 42°C; f of it was combined with 
the seasonings, i teaspoonful salt, i teaspoonful sugar, and i teaspoon- 
ful butter. The remaining | of the hquid was used to soften the | 
cake of compressed yeast. The yeast mixture was added to the dis- 
solved seasonings; then 440 grams, or 3.6 cupfuls of spring wheat 
flour, slightly warmed, were beaten in gradually. The dough was 
kneaded by hand for 20 minutes, and allowed to rise at 36°C. until it 
exactly doubled its bulk. It was then kneaded for 5 minutes, and 
allowed to rise again to the same bulk. It was then made into a loaf 
with little kneading, and again allowed to rise until doubled in bulk in 
the pan. The loaf was baked in a gas range for 45 minutes. The 
oven temperature was i8o°C. for 10 minutes, i8o°-235° rising very 
gradually during the next 15 minutes, and 218° for the last 20 minutes. 
The size of the pan used was 8f x t,^ x ;^ inches. This method 
required about 7 hours for completion. 

After the preceding method with its results was definitely estab- 
lished, the subsequent experiments consisted of variations in the fac- 
tors studied. The factors were as follows: i, Liquid Factor; 2, 

1 Presented at the Sixth .\nnual Meeting of the American Home Economics 
Association, Ithaca, 1913. 



22 Th€ Journal of Home Economics [February 

Yeast Factor; 3, Fermentation Factor; 4, Manipulation Factor; and 
5, Temperature Factor. It-^'ill be seen that it was impossible to 
study one factor entirely separate from the others. There was, how- 
ever, one main factor in each set of experiments. 

T/ie Liquid Factor. The general method of bread making already 
estabUshed was lollowed, at first, with variations only in the proportion 
of. moisture. To carry out this study successfully it was found best 
to keep the amount of liquid constant, and vary the amount of flour. 

The results obtained ^nd the conclusions reached were these: 

Soft doughs produce well shaped loaves, but small in volume and 
somewhat too flat on top; the texture is rather coarse, and in the case 
of exceedingly soft doughs the crumb is somewhat dark, tough, and 
clammy. Also, the bread made from a very soft dough dries out more 
rapidly on keeping than does one made from a rather stiff dough. Soft 
doughs yield larger weights of bread in proportion to the flour used 
thaMjio stiff doughs; for this reason the baker finds it advantageous 
t(^Re soft doughs. 

A^derately stiff doughs give the most satisfactory breads. The 
stiff er the dough the more roimded is the top. The greater is the tend- 
ency of the loaf to crack open on the side, the finer is the texture, 
the whiter and drier is the crumb, and the richer is the color of the 
crust. Moderately stiff doughs rise more in the oven, hence yielding 
larger volumes of bread than do either soft or stiff doughs. 

The longer the process the larger is the amount of flour required 
by a given amount of liquid. 

The loaves, unanimously accepted as the best, were the ones con- 
taining 440 grams or 3.6 cupfuls of flour to 260 cubic centimeters, or 
I cupful of water, making the moisture 59 per cent by weight. The 
Washburn Crosby Milling Company use, in their test bakeries, 60 
per cent by weight of moisture for this same flour. 

A flour will vary somewhat from time to time in Uquid requirement 
because of its variation in moisture content, as influenced by the 
temperature and humidity of the surrounding air. Flour kept over 
night in an incubator at 4o°C. was found to have lost 2.1 per cent 
moisture. 

The amount of flour required to give a dough of a certain consist- 
ency varies according to the kind of liquid used. Water produces a 
finer textured, sweeter flavored, but more inelastic bread than do 
any of the liquids ordinarily used for mixing. But such bread dries 
out more rapidly than any other. 



1 9 14] Results of Study of Factors of Bread Making 23 

When potato water is used the lightness and sponginess of the 
bread is increased to a marked degree. The use of milk, either sweet 
or sour, or of potato water heightens the color of the crust. The use 
of potato water also increases slightly the rapidity of fermentation, 
but the use of buttermilk increases it somewhat more. Potato 
water increases greatly the keeping qualities of the bread .in which 
it is used. Milk, either sweet or sour, also increases such qualities, 
but to a less extent. 

The Yeast Factor. At first, the influence of variation in the amount 
of yeast was studied. The best quality of compressed yeast obtain- 
able was used. The conclusions reached were these: 

Increase of yeast up to the amount of 6 cakes to the loaf causes 
increase of volume, but greater amount of yeast lessens volume. 
Increase of yeast up to 4 or 5 cakes, adds to the fineness of texture 
but a greater amount produces coarseness. 

Increase in yeast causes a very gradual but constant increase in 
the tendency to crumble and in the pallor of the crust. An exceed- 
ingly large excess of yeast seems to cause deterioration of flavor, this 
deterioration being more in lack of flavor than in any unpleasant 
taste, provided the yeast is of good quality. ... 

Comparison was here made with the results of some similar experi- ' 
ments made by Miss Ruth Wardall at the University of Illinois in 
1907, in which pure yeast cultures were used. Her results were 
stated as follows: "The flavor of loaves containing 0.9 of a cake and 
1.8 cake was very good; those containing 3.6 cakes and 7^ cakes had 
no taste of yeast, as in the so-called- yeasty bread, but they lacked, 
entirely, any flavor of the grain, and were rather tasteless, although 
quite eatable." Then, in conclusion, she says, "the secret of flavor 
is surely not to be brought to light by the amount of yeast used." 
The possible explanation for the difference in results lies in the fact 
that in the writer's experiments the yeast was not of so pure a quality 
as that used by Miss Wardall. Both sets of experiments agree, how- 
ever, in regard to effect upon texture and crimib, and in regard to a 
loss of the dehcate flavor of the wheat grain when more than 3 cakes 
to the loaf were used. 

Other conclusions, drawn from the experiments on quantities of 
yeast are: 

The voliune of a loaf is influenced by the power of the yeast to act 
in the oven, this power being propootional to the amotmt of yeast. 
Length of time of rising in the oven is increased by an increase in 



24 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

amount of yeast. When a good quality of yeast is used an increase 
up to 2 cakes per loaf is to be recommended for shortening time and 
producing better bread, although it can not be recommended from 
an economic standpoint. 

The next set of yeast experiments was conducted to determine the 
effect of the differing proportions of liquid yeast when carried over 
night in a sponge. Two sponges were set over night, one containing i^ 
cupfuls of active liquid potato yeast and ^ cupful warm water; the 
other containing only | cupful of liquid yeast and i| cupfuls of water. 
The same amount of flour, sugar, and salt were added to each. In 
the morning the first sponge had risen and fallen, the second had risen 
more slowly and had not fallen. After being made into dough, both 
rose alike, baked alike, and were indistinguishble in any way. The 
conclusions reached were: 

Yeast, if introduced in small quantity into a sponge, will multiply 
until it assumes a maximum concentration, and if introduced in large 
quantity will cause a greater immediate production of gas, but will 
not give a more vigorous sponge ultimately. 

A small amount of yeast will give the same results as a larger 
amount if allowed a sufficient length of time in a sponge. 

The Fermentation Factor. Variations in the regular method were 
made in the degree of fermentation and number of risings. As far 
as possible a quantity of dough was made and handled in a mass. 
When it was necessary to di\dde it, equal weights were taken for all 
loaves. Kneading was eliminated as far as possible, gas being let 
out by pressing or squeezing down the dough. The results obtained 
were: 

Repeated fermentations, when kneading was eliminated, tended to 
produce fineness of texture, whiteness of crumb, and mellowness whose 
successive stages are technically described as silkiness and pile. Pile 
is the quality of bread which makes it possible to pull off little flakes 
and strips from the side. When an extremely white and silky bread 
was obtained the flavor was somewhat sour. It may be that the 
same products which cause acidity, such as is caused by lactic and 
acetic acids, help to mellow the gluten and produce this silkiness. 

Change or letting out of gas, merely by cutting down, tended to 
prevent sourness by accelerating yeast growth, even though the 
dough was allowed to stand for a longer time. 

Flavor was developed by fermentation, being first sweet and 
nutty, then slightly alcoholic, and finally acid. 



1914I Results of Study of Factors of Bread Making 25 

Fineness of texture was much more dependent upon the degree of 
rising allowed in the pan than upon the extent of the previous risings. 
Even doughs which were permitted to rise and fall in the bowl stage 
gave fine grain on proper treatment in the pan. The degree of 
lightness in the pre\'ious rising seemed to make little difference in the 
final texture; increased fermentation in the first stages, however, 
tended to increase silkiness and whiteness. Underlightness in the 
first risings showed in the finished product in lack of mellowness and 
elasticity. Bread seemed better for ha\'ing been allowed to reach its 
maximum expansion once during the process. 

Bread allowed to finish its rising in the oven is undoubtedly better 
in texture, although more care is required in baking to give a well 
shaped loaf. 

The Manipulation Factor. In these experiments doughs were mixed 
and divided into loaves of equal weight, all being controlled exactly 
alike, except for the time or manner of kneading. 

Loaves that were given no kneading at all, but were merely cut 
down to let out the gas, gave equally good flavor, and a higher degree 
£)f elasticity; but kneading made the crumb whiter and more silky, 
the vesiculation somewhat finer, and the distribution of gas more 
even. This even distribution of gas also tended to make a better 
shaped loaf. 

Increased time of kneading, after the dough had become smooth 
and satiny, or after 15 or 20 minutes, added considerably to the white- 
ness, and somewhat to the fineness of texture. The improvement 
however seemed by no means in proportion to the increase in labor. 

When the flour was worked in very gradually with thorough knead- 
ing, the dough felt much stiffer for the same amount of flour, than 
when mixed rapidly and kneaded carelessly. This seemed to be due 
to the fact that in the more thoroughly worked doughs the flour 
absorbed the liquid more completely, and there was less free moisture. 

More difference was observed in texture due to manner of kneading 
than to the time of kneading. A kneading stroke which was long and 
firm and even, covering all portions of the dough aUke, and a rather 
quick stroke so that the dough was kept constantly in motion seemed 
to be the most effective sort. 

The method of molding into the loaf had also considerable effect 
on texture; the loaves that were not kneaded, but were molded lightly 
at this point, showed more plainly the effects of handling in the early 
stages. In all cases the formation of a compact dough, on molding 



26 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

into the loaf, resulted in a loaf of small volume and dull crust, but of 
fine and even texture; the loaf was, however, too compact, and lacked 
lightness and silkiness. The loaves which were lightly molded, with- 
out kneading, were superior in all points except in fineness and even- 
ness of texture 

The Temperature Factor. In order to determine how great was the 
effect upon the bread produced by the temperature of rising, doughs 
were raised at various temperatures. The results were as follows: 

Overheating of the dough during rising results in a loaf of small 
volume, coarse texture, dark crumb, and dull, unattractive crust. 

Chilling of bread tends to lessen its volume, and to produce com- 
pactness, coarseness, and toughness of crumb. 

There is very little difference in the short process breads raised 
at the temperatures of 26° and 40°C. Such difference is not enough 
to justify the additional length of time demanded by the lower tem- 
perature. 

Doughs Avhich are thoroughly warmed during mixing and kneading 
are not easily chilled afterward. The later it is in the process when 
such chilling occurs, the less the influence on the bread. This was 
tested both by putting the dough into the icebox and by putting it 
into an open window on a winter day where the temperature regis- 
tered i2°C. In such cases fermentation was well started, and the 
dough continued to rise steadily, although somewhat slowly, and made 
bread which showed no characteristics of chilling. 

Variations were also made in the temperatures of baking. It was 
easily seen that the baking temperature must be regulated according 
to the degree of lightness of the dough. Too hot an oven causes an 
under-raised dough to crack after crusting over, thus producing holes 
in the crumb, while too cool an oven allows fairly well risen dough to 
become overlight. 

Further proof of the statement already made was shown by ex- 
periment. Bread allowed to rise to the desired degree of lightness 
before baking, and put into a hot oven produces a better shaped 
loaf than if allowed to finish its rising in the oven. However, the 
bread which is barely doubled in bulk and allowed to rise in the oven 
reaches the same maximum volume attained by bread risen entirely 
outside, and in addition is of much finer texture, better color, and 
increased tenderness and silkiness. As high a temperature as 24o°C. 
continued for as long a time as 15 minutes produces a hard, tough 
crust and loss of brightness, while a lower temperature maintained 



1 9 14] Results of Study of Factors of Bread Making 27 

throughout baking, with a rise to 235°C. for a few minutes only, pro- 
duces a tender and crisp crust, with a bright bloom. The most sat- 
isfactory baking temperature for loaves risen till doubled in bulk in 
the pans is as follows: i8o°C. for 10 minutes, i8o°-235° rising gradu- 
ally during the next 15 minutes, and 218° for the last 20 minutes. 

The retention of moisture during baking, as in a covered pan or, 
under some conditions, in a fireless cooker increases the volume and 
weight of the loaf, but makes the crumb overmoist. The volume is 
increased because the presence of steam prevents the crusting over 
of the loaf, thus allowing it to rise more. 

The effect of baking upon bacteria in bread was also studied, and 
in this connection considerable experimental work was done on the 
subject of "rope." The characteristics of ropiness in bread are these: 
a day or so after baking, a disagreeable odor develops, the crumb be- 
comes moist and sticky and finally stringy. Brown patches begin to 
develop throughout the loaf, and finally the entire inside of the loaf 
becomes a sticky brown mass, somewhat resembling a rotten apple. 
In order to determine the cause of ropiness, microscopic examina- 
tions and plate cultures were made of the infected material, the bacilli 
present being carefully studied, and sterile bread sticks being inocu- 
lated. 

As a result, ropiness in bread was seen to be caused by a motile, 
rod-shaped bacillus which, in some cases at least, and probably in 
most cases, is found in the flour. The rope producing bacillus with- 
stands baking temperatures, but the bread made from infected flour 
may be prevented from developing rope by being kept dry and cool 
after baking. Underbaking and an increase of concentration of the 
bacilli in the flour, produce an increased rapidity of development. 

In order to see if there was any practical appHcation of the fact, 
discovered by Watkins,^ that lactic acid was destructive to rope pro- 
ducing bacilli, flour was inoculated with the bacillus and used in 
making breads, various attempts being made to retard the growth of 
the bacillus. Sunning and drying of the flour seemed to have no 
effect, neither did hop-water. In some cases, buttermilk, used as the 
liquid for mixing bread, entirely prevented the development, even 
when the bread was kept in a moist, warm place. The amount of 
buttermilk used, however, must be in proportion to the degree of 
infection of the flour. It is possible to have a flour so strongly in- 

^ Jour. Soc. Chem. Indus., xxv, 1906, pp. 350. 



28 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

fected that the exclusive use of buttermilk will not prevent the 
growth of rope. Breads made from exceedingly stiff doughs are some- 
what slower in developing rope than those made from soft doughs. 
The appearance of a pink crumb, caused by a certain variety of coccus 
often accompanies ropiness. 

One practical outcome of this piece of investigation was the making 
of a score card for use in judging bread. Like all score cards this 
needs to be perfected by use and is now being tested with this end 
in view. 

A PIONEER COOKING SCHOOL 

Fannie Eugenie Saville 

Teachers College, New York City 

Eighteen years ago, several years before the first Lake Placid con- 
ference, a little school of Domestic Science was started at Mineville, 
New York. This little town at the edge of the Adirondacks thus has 
the distinction of having had the first cooking school in New York 
State, north of Albany. The school was founded by Mrs. Frank S. 
Witherbee, of New York, and is called Witherbee Cooking School. 

At first there were only a few pupils, all of American birth, in the 
school, but as the town has been growing and changing, so the school 
has been growing and changing until now it has an enrollment of over 
eighty. There are now in the school Poles, Hungarians, Italians, 
French Canadians, Scotch, Irish, and Americans. Here these races 
meet and learn to work together for the common good. 

Shortly after the school was started Miss Anna Barrows, of Boston, 
came to inspect it. She stayed several days and gave one of her dem- 
onstration lectures which aroused great interest. On her way to the 
first of the Lake Plagid conferences Miss Emily Huntington, founder 
of the Kitchen Garden Movement, stopped to see the school in 1899. 
Both Miss Barrows and Miss Huntington expressed approval of its 
work and methods which have continued practically unchanged to the 
present, except as the school has grown and as the home economics idea 
has itself more completely developed. 

The school is held in a large room in the Workingmen's Club House. 
This room has been fitted up by Mrs. Witherbee with everything 
necessary to carry on the work. The kitchen equipment has been lini- 



1 9 14] -^ Pioneer Cooking School 29 

ited to such appliances and utensils as the pupils can afford to have in 
their own homes, and these the pupils are taught to use in the best 
ways possible. The dining room furnishings are more elaborate. There 
are fine china, dainty linen, and silver, and the children are taught to 
use these things as they should be used. When it is known that the 
parents of many of these children are European peasant folk who have 
been in this country only a few years, the value of such teaching is 
realized. 

For several years there were classes for boys as well as girls but since 
the classes have grown so large the boys have had to give way. They 
are remembered as having done excellent and careful work. 

At Christmas time, every year, the school sends out boxes of jellies 
and marmalade (made by the pupils) to the Nursery and Child's 
Hospital in New York and to Stony Wold Sanatarium in Franklin 
County, New York. The pupils are thus brought to feel that they are 
doing some good in the large outside world. 

The classes meet once a week, after school. Attendance is purely 
voluntary and the classes are always over-crowded. Mrs. Witherbee 
pays all the expenses and no charge of any kind is made for the instruc- 
tion. 

While in the outside world the question as to whether or not the 
girls should be taught in school to cook has been agitated and discuss- 
ed pro and con, this little school has been running year after year with 
ever-increasing classes and spreading its influence for good over a wide 
territory. Today the first scholars are sending their daughters that 
they may enjoy the benefits which the mothers have found so lasting. 

There has been only one teacher in all these years, Mrs. Sarah 
Webster Saville. Mrs. Saville studied in Pratt Institute and in the 
various charity schools in New York City before the Witherbee Cook- 
ing School was opened. The class of scholars in Mineville was so 
different from those in the city that an entirely different method of 
teaching had to be w^orked out. That this method was good is shown 
by the results in the lives of the scholars. 



30 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

THE BASIC WORK IN PURE SCIENCE IN PREPARING 
TEACHERS OF HOME ECONOMICS' 

J. F. Snell 

Professor of Chemistry, MacDonald College, Ste. Anne de Bellcviie, Quebec 

Canada 

"The fundamental requirement for progress in applying science is 
the acquisition of science to apply." 

These words of one of the most inspired leaders of the Home Eco- 
nomics movement in America (the late Mrs. Ellen H. Richards) apply 
broadly to the human race as a whole, and in this sense plead elo- 
quently for the encouragement of scientific research of all kinds, how- 
ever abstruse and remote from obvious application. As related specif- 
ically to Home Economics they call for research in problems whose 
application to household practice is apparent; and how numerous such 
problems are ever>' intelligent teacher of Home Economics must be 
painfully conscious. 

But it is with the application of our quotation to the training of 
teachers of household science that we are at this moment more particu- 
larly concerned. Committees of the American Home Economics 
Association and the Association of American Agricultural Colleges and 
Experiment Stations have agreed upon the following definition of 
Home Economics: "Home Economics, as a distinctive subject of 
instruction, is the study of the economic, sanitary, and esthetic as- 
pects of food, clothing, and shelter as connected with their selection, 
preparation, and use by the family in the home or by other groups of 
people. " In accordance with the terms of this definition a teacher of 
Home Economics requires adequate training in the elements of econom- 
ics, in the principles of art, and in those natural sciences which are 
related to the economic and sanitary aspects of food, clothing, and 
shelter. 

The natural sciences which have ob\aous application to the prob- 
lems of the household are physics, chemistry, and biology. In the 
field of each of these sciences there are certain topics whose bearing 
upon household work is self e\ident, and certain others which, although 
they may eventually prove of greater importance, are in the present 

' Presented at the Sixth .\nnual Meeting of the American Home Economics Asso- 
ciation, Ithaca, 1913. 



1914] Basic Work in Pure Science 31 

state of our knowledge so inapplicable to household problems that it 
would be folly to attempt to impose the study of them upon young 
women whose time is so fully employed in the acquirement of practical 
knowledge. In the field of physics, for instance, the laws of heat dis- 
tribution — of radiation, conduction, and convection — are obviously of 
such great interest in relation to the household that every housekeeper 
will be profited by a study of them, and every teacher of household 
science should master them thoroughly. A knowledge of the laws of 
electro-magnetic induction, on the other hand, is by no means essential 
to the housekeeper. From a cultural standpoint it is well that she 
should realize her debt to Michael Faraday for the discovery of these 
laws and to the local electrical engineer for the intelligent application 
of them which results in the efl&cient and sanitary lighting of her home 
and in the saving of manual labor of the household ; but she herself has 
little occasion to employ these laws. Similarly, although the use of 
the metal tungsten in incandescent electric lights effects a material 
economy in the lighting of the house, and although it is of practical 
importance that she should know that cold tungsten is more brittle 
than hot, so that she may be wise enough to turn on the current before 
attempting to clean the globes and although sodium tungstate may be 
useful for rendering fabrics fire-proof, yet one would scarcely recom- 
mend her to devote her attention to the study of the element tungsten 
to the neglect of sodium, calcium, carbon, oxygen, or nitrogen. 

The content of courses in the pure sciences for students preparing to 
teach Home Economics must necessarily be influenced by the prelimi- 
nary education of the students, the duration of the Home Economics 
course, and the local conditions of the institution in which the course 
is given. It is a common policy in large institutions to make one 
course in elementary physics or chemistry serve for students of several 
different schools. Home Economics students may have to acquire the 
elements of the sciences side by side with students of pure science, of 
agriculture, of engineering and of medicine. Admitting the economy 
of such a system we yet maintain that the student of any one of these 
schools will be better served by a course prepared specifically for that 
school. The active interest of the student is essential to the satis- 
factory acquirement of any branch of knowledge. Students of applied 
science are, I think, especially disposed to lose interest in any subject 
the direct practical application of which they do not see. To such 
students the scientific principle must be presented with the practical 
application in constant view, or at any rate in frequent view. This 



32 The Journal oj Home Economics [February 

may, aad usually will, imply the omission of some topics which would 
receive attention in a general cultural course, or in a course for students 
of another line of applied science. But it need not and should not 
involve any attempt to popularize the science by slurring over difficult 
points. The aim should ever be to instil into the mind of the student 
that scientific habit of mind which "proves all things and holds fast 
that which is good, " and yet is always ready to question the advantage 
of established practice and to search for improvements upon even the 
oldest and most approved manners and customs. To instil this pro- 
gressive spirit, this "habit of blessed discontent," is of even more im- 
portance than to impart useful information. 

If possible, laboratory practice should be given in each science 
studied and the laboratory work should be so conducted as to demand 
of the student careful observation and independent deduction from the 
observations. The directions for the laboratory work should be so 
worded as to induce the student to make the essential observations, and 
such questions should be asked as will lead her to the desired deduc- 
tion. But every tendency to note down what ought to have happened 
instead of what was really observed should be sternly suppressed. If 
what ought to have happened has not happened the student should 
be required to repeat the work with more care. 

In the domain of physics, the most important topics are no doubt 
those relating to heat. A comprehensive knowledge of this depart- 
ment of physics is essential to the intelligent discussion not only of the 
economy of house-heating, but also of ventilation, cooking, and 
laundry work. Mechanics is possibly the next most important divi- 
sion of the subject. The advantages of labor-saving machines should 
be so brought home to the housekeeper that she may be capable not 
only of intelligently appraising the value of the various household 
appliances that may afterward be brought to her attention, but also 
of so planning her own work as to eliminate all unnecessary expendi- 
ture of effort. Even the height of a kitchen table may make a tre- 
mendous difference in the ease and comfort with which housework may 
be accomplished. Something of the theory of light, particularly with 
reference to reflection and refraction will be useful in relation to the 
study of household art. Some knowledge of the laws of electricity is 
essential to the safe and economic use of this form of energy in the 
home. The transmission of soimd has some application to house 
architecture. And the great laws of energy, which bind together all 



1 9 14] Basic Work in Pure Science 33 

the departments of physics, cannot be left out of consideration. A 
broad course in general physics, supplemented by a more detailed 
study of heat and, if possible, of mechanics and certain aspects of 
electricity would appear to be well suited to our purpose. 

In chemistry the course should be so shaped as to arrive without 
unnecessary delay at the applications to the laundry tub and the dinner 
table. In teaching chemistry to a class taking a course of a single 
year, and consequently limited to a weekly lesson of two hours, why 
not omit the detailed study of the elements, and after introducing the 
fundamental conceptions of the science, proceed through the charac- 
teristics of acids, bases, and salts, directly to the discussion of hard 
water and soaps? Ammonia and its salts serve to introduce the con- 
ception of radicals and so to prepare the mind for the ideas of organic 
chemistry. The discussion of alcohols and esters brings us at once to 
the fats. The conception of hydrolysis, introduced in connection 
with the salts of acid and alkaline reaction finds further appHcation in 
connection with saponification and with the digestion of fats. Carbo- 
hydrates and proteins are then taken up and their hydrolysis studied 
so as to show the interrelations of the various members of each class, 
and to account for the changes they undergo during digestion. The 
chemistry of combustion, of foods, textiles, soaps, dyes, and bleaching 
agents is of great importance to the housekeeper, but just how fully 
each can be treated must depend upon the time which it is possible or 
advisable to devote to this branch of science. Students preparing to 
teach ought, of course, to have more than one year's instruction in 
chemistry. Three or four years are desirable; in this time it is possi- 
ble for them to get a thorough grounding in the theory of the subject, 
and also to devote considerable attention to the topics specially re- 
lated to housekeeping. 

In biology, just as in chemistry and physics, some general knowledge 
of the science is necessary as a foundation for the study of its branches 
which are of supreme importance to the homemaker. These branches 
are microbiology and human physiology. Some knowledge of botany 
and of zoology, of the structure and physiology of plants and animals 
may be used by way of introduction and is essential to a satisfactory 
knowledge of foods and textiles. But by far the most useful knowledge 
for those who are to have charge of homes and children is the knowledge 
of human physiology and of the relation of microorganisms to the prep- 
aration and preservation of food and to the dissemination of disease. 



34 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

"To teach women, girls, prospective mothers to war on invisible 
dirt," says Dr. H. W. Hill of the Minnesota State Board of Health, 

"is one of the functions of bacteriology Women must 

learn to break up, divert, stop in some manner — in every manner — the 
exchange of normal discharges among children at school and amid 
families at home, if infectious diseases are to be abolished or abated. 
The needful information, beliefs, technique, and habits cannot be had 
or estabhshed except by studying the basic principles of bacteriology. " 

This does not imply that the student or even the teacher of Home 
Economics need becon e an expert in the isolation and identification of 
microorganisms. Even without the use of a microscope it is possible 
to make convincing demonstrations of the existence of microorgan- 
isms in dust, in water, in milk, and in other foods, on the feet of flies, 
and on human hands, hair, teeth, etc.; to teach the student to dis- 
criminate between yeasts, moulds, and bacteria; and to famiUarize her 
with the relation of each to the welfare of the human race. Students 
preparing to teach should learn to perform effectual sterilization and 
to prepare the culture media for the demonstrations to which we have 
just referred, so that they themselves may be able to make such dem- 
onstrations. All Home Economics students should have practice in 
disinfecting rooms, textiles, etc., but this practice can only be intelli- 
gent when supported upon a foundation of sound theory. 

In the domain of human physiology I will not venture to prescribe 
the omission of any topic. Almost anything in this science is poten- 
tially useful to the homemaker. The nutritional functions and the 
physiology of childhood and growth should be the central topics of the 
course, but these cannot be intelligently discussed without constant 
reference to other functions. The course must also have as a founda- 
tion some study of anatomy. 

Whenever possible the instruction in each science should be given by 
a specialist in that science, but the specialist should bear constantly 
in mind that the object of the course is to train teachers of Home 
Economics and not to train speciaUsts in his own science. 



1914] The Basic Work in Art 35 

THE BASIC WORK IN ART IN PREPARING TEACHERS 
OF HOME ECONOMICS' 

Mary J. Quinn 
Pratl Institute 

The purpose of any technical education must determine the course 
of study. In a school of Home Economics the art training does not 
attempt primarily to develop technical skill in any of the fine arts, but 
is directed toward developing the power and pleasure of exercising 
artistic discrimination in bringing order and beauty into the home and 
domestic environment. In order to approach intelligently the wide 
field of special arts which are related to the home, it is necessary to lay 
a foundation on an analysis and knowledge of the fundamental princi- 
ples underlying all art. To be able to recognize and discriminate 
balance, rhythm, and harmony of proportion, line, and color; to be 
able to judge these when transfused by the inspiration and individual- 
ity of the artist and created into the ultimate beauty of a splendid 
building, a fine picture, a chair, a beautiful rug or tapestry is to have 
acquired an understanding of the science of art and of the principles 
which underlie the arts, crafts, and industries related to the home. 

To understand the principles of design, one must exercise them in 
concrete problems. To know, it is necessary to do ; and although doing 
does not necessarily beget knowledge, technical practice is necessary 
for sound judgment in artistic distinctions. The principles of design 
should be developed in clear, logical sequence. The problems should 
include study of proportions, balance, rythms, unity of form and 
movement, incoherent repetitions, radiations, and other arrangements 
of line and mass forms. With each problem it is well to try rear- 
rangements, to strengthen, refine, vary emphases, shift dominations 
and subordinations, and elaborate detail continually — comparing and 
analysing each rearrangement — in order to develop understanding and 
faciUty for more complex and subtle problems. In a study of color, 
attention should be directed toward the physical and psychological, as 
well as the artistic relations, correlating, whenever possible, the 
work in color study with the work in physics and psychology. In the 
artistic relations of color after analysing and comparing hue, intensity 
and values, theories of color harmony dependent on these qualities 

'Presented at the Sixth Annual Meeting of the American Home Economics 
Association, Ithaca, 1913. 



26 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

and on proportions of color in combination should be presented. In 
illustration of these the students may make color combinations to 
show the effect of different colors in juxtaposition and varying propor- 
tions, and in combination with black and white. Effects of daylight 
and artificial light on color combinations is an important and interest- 
ing consideration. 

As far as is practical, these exercises in color and design should be 
carried out with materials, and in a technique which is of use to the 
homemaker and of introductory significance to the more specialized 
work of the course. For instance, an early lesson in the course may be 
the making of z portfolio to hold drawings and illustrative material. 
This lesson involves consideration of texture in paper, computing and 
measuring, and the technique of simple pasting; and it introduces some 
of the processes of bookbinding. In the study of color, the problems 
may be carried out through dyeing. An average student will learn 
more about color with one experiment of dyeing materials for color 
combinations than with a half dozen color arrangements worked out 
in water colors on paper. Knowledge of dyes and dyeing processes 
relieve the homemaker and the teacher from dependence on the crude 
and limited range of colors available in inexpensive materials. The 
stencil and the woodblock offer opportunities for different methods 
in the use of dyestuffs, while the beautiful and useful variations offered 
in needlework for both color and design are almost imlimited. The 
surface treatment of woods and the use of varnishes and stains may 
be carried even to a lacquer finish in the application of designs to 
boxes, trays or furniture. This treatment involves a technique pecu- 
liarly valuable to the homemaker. 

The course in design should build the knowledge on which to base 
the study of the special arts related to the home. With these special 
arts a new element enters. The preceding work concerned itself with 
surface decoration, with problems of proportion, of rythm, of color, in 
designs of two dimensions. To be sure, there was an emphasis laid on 
the relation of the design to the form of the space to be decorated — the 
emphasis of structural form by design; but now we deal with structural 
designs of three dimensions, architecture, furniture design, metal work, 
porcelains, and pottery, with emphasis on fitness of form to utility, 
and limitation of decoration to structural reinforcement. Students 
should be familiar with the essentials of structural form in each great 
epoch in architecture, and of the best types of modem and local domestic 
architecture. In following the evolution of structural form in architec- 
ture, they should note the changes due to climate, location, accessibility 



1 9 14] Tf^c Basic Work in Art 37 

of material, and adaptation to manner of living and use of building. 
Each student should try to plan a house. Preceding this and in prep- 
aration for it, consider all the problems which beset the builder — the 
cost of the house, size of plot, street line, sun exposure, accessibility of 
materials and labor, and limitations and advantages in country, sub- 
urban, and city building. Compare materials with reference to cost, 
utility, and type and permanence of architecture — advantages and dis- 
advantages of wood, brick, concrete, and stucco. Illustrate methods 
of construction in each material. Consider in detail the constructing 
of a house — the foundation, cellar, walls, floors, roof, windows, doors, 
chimneys, stairs, plumbing, lighting, and heating; and supplement the 
lectures with illustrative models and with field trips to houses in process 
of construction. With this antecedent preparation the student should 
plan a house of simple structural form, including stairways, halls, two 
chimneys, living room, dining room, butler's pantry, kitchen, bed- 
rooms, bath, ample closets, light, ventilation, circulation, and plumb- 
ing, lighting, and heating arrangements. As the work is given for 
consideration and knowledge of essentials in good domestic architec- 
ture, and not for training architectural specialists, it is not necessary 
to carry these plans further than accurate and readable pencil plans. 
Time should not be taken for acquiring the finer technique of archi- 
tectural rendering. Based on the attention given to types and forms 
of windows and door constructions and the importance of good propor- 
tions, it is well for the student to draw a front and side elevation to 
show the spacing and designs of doors, window's, roof, and chimney in 
the elevation view. 

The interior furnishing involves new consideration. By means of lec- 
tures, illustrations, and visits to museums and antique shops, study the 
development of structural design in furniture. Trace the changes and 
variations in structural form, in woods used, in upholstery materials, 
and in craftsmanship through transition from period to period down 
to furniture made today. Discuss the fitness and availability of 
materials for houses of moderate cost, and simple manner of li\'ing. 
Develop the history and consider textile design in connection with 
furniture, and relate, wherever possible, the development of the other 
artistic industries. Have the students visit shops and museums and 
gather photographs, illustrations and drawings of furniture, and sam- 
ples of wall papers, curtain and upholstery materials for the house 
already planned. Draw floor plans and arrange and rearrange the 
furniture drawn to scale. From the collections of wall paper, curtain 
and upholstery materials select combinations for use according to limi- 



,8 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

tations and possibilities of each room, and in the proportions of their 
use in furnishing. 

Lectures on rugs, supplemented by a visit to shop or museum; on 
porcelains and pottery, supplemented by a visit to museum; on proc- 
esses of picture making, supplemented by photograph, etching, mezzo- 
tint, lithograph, engraving, color printing, water color, tempera and oil 
painting should be given with discrimination and adequate illustration. 

Such courses as have been suggested offer opportunities for broad 
educational values in imaginative stimulus and mental enrichment, as 
well as technica- knowledge, through the development of the subject 
matter in the dual aspect of its relation to immediate problems of the 
home, and its relation to the history of art and architecture. The in- 
telligent use of illustrative material will open the doors of China and 
Persia, of Byzantium and the Renaissance, of English charm and 
French skill, and play fair substitute for the education acquired by 
intelligent travel. The problem of spacing and line movement in a 
border design may be developed by stimulation from the perfection of 
border on a Greek vase, from the embroideries of a Fra Angelico angel, 
or from the primitive vigor of an American Indian basket. Color 
combinations may be evolved with the help and understanding of rich 
Persian color, of the intellectual clarity of Chinese color, of the vibra- 
tory arrangements of the French impressionist colorists. Many 
points of special interest come up through the individual problems, and 
students should be encouraged to make special and general collections 
of illustrative material relating to architecture and house furnishing. 
Too much emphasis cannot be placed on the value of association and 
the study of beautiful illustrations and museum collections. 

The museums in our larger cities are of invaluable service; and the 
growing interest in the establishment of art museums in the smaller 
cities, and in the acquisition of collections of textiles, laces, furniture 
and art objects bears promise of enrichment for the fields of household 
art. If we could help museum directors and owners of art collections 
to realize our need and their opportunity, there might be developed in 
this country the extension work in museum collections which has been 
so well administered in France and England. South Kensington Mu- 
seum in London, and the state museums of France share their treas- 
ures with the smaller cities of pro\dncial districts through travelling 
loan collections to art and technical schools, libraries and art museums. 
As the ultimate permanence and joy of any piece of work is a meas- 
ure of its beauty and its art, must we not help to bring this leaven into 
the industrial and commercial forces of today? 




Tb^t tooE C?LA»- 

V>"<'t7J5iTv y Illinois 




WtrvAHi; EA/\L.piMa 
UKlJSJMiTY '5 Illinois 




"HiiBj> rLssofc. f\.An 



1 9 14] Woman^s Building, University of Illinois 39 

THE WOMAN'S BUILDING. UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS 

Isabel Bevier 

The frontispiece shows the north and east sides of the present 
Woman's Building at the University of Illinois. The original build- 
ing was opened in 1905; the new addition was made in 1912. In the 
original plan, three main lines of work were represented, viz: Home 
Economics in the north wing; the woman's gymnasium in the central 
part; the rooms for rest, recreation and the social activities of the 
young women in the south wing. As will be seen by the preceding 
cuts of plans, the present building has the same general arrangement, 
except that the Household Science Department has increased its 
equipment by the large dining room which occupies the front of the 
building on the second floor. 

This room is 75 feet long and 25 feet wide, and has been equipped as 
a cafeteria. The color scheme is terra cotta for walls and mahogany 
for chairs, tables and doors. In connection with this are adequate 
service and storage rooms, and a well-equipped institutional kitchen. 

There is a growing recognition of the need of studying the art of 
right living, both for the indi\'idual and for the community, and also 
some slight appreciation of the fact that much of the misery of the 
world is due to food, badly cooked and unattractively served. Most 
institutions of learning are seeking to provide not only academic 
training, but also healthful living conditions for their students. It is 
hoped that this new cafeteria may do its share in helping on this good 
work, and, at the same time, serve as a laboratory for those seeking 
instruction in lunch-room management and the preparation of food 
in large quantities. Each year the call is stronger for the trained 
woman who can help to solve some of the problems of institutional 
management and community life. 

Near to the institutional kitchen are the diet kitchen and the class 
room where, by lecture and practice, the principles of rational diet 
are taught and a foundation laid for the work of the practical dietitian, 
which is supplemented later by actual practice in the local hospital. 
Just beyond these is the electric kitchen, where the student has an 
opportunity to become familiar with an expensive but most attrac- 
tive form of fuel. 

On the third floor, one finds more adequate provision than has 
hitherto been possible for the study of some of the problems of the 



40 



The Journal oj Home Economics [February 



home. The care of the sick in the home is a subject of no small im- 
portance. The services of a trained nurse are frequently impossible 
to the country dweller, and often a luxury not to be afforded in either 
towTi or country. Moreover, a little knowledge of emergencies and 
of the principles of nursing often make the presence of a nurse un- 
necessary. If the woman in the home understands the proper care of 
wounds, cases of blood poisoning may be pre\ented. Provision for 
instruction and practice in the care of the patient with the appliances 
that have been found worth while in actual practice, are to be in- 
stalled in a room devote d to the principles and practices of the home 
care of the sick. Tn these days when the interest in public health 
is so keen, the Department can contribute some training of its stu- 
dents along this line and so help to better li\dng conditions. No one 
can estimate how much harm is done by those individuals who are 
ignorant of the simplest laws of public health and who, for that reason, 
are a real menace to the health of a whole community. 

In contrast with the cafeteria on the second floor, which stands in a 
certain sense for the study of the problems of commimity life, one 
finds on the third floor an apartment designed to give individual prac- 
tice in the problems of the home. A school kitchen and a home kitchen 
are of necessity very different places if either is a good type in its own 
field of work. The two have certain principles in common which 
may be illustrated by quite different practice because conditions are so 
different. 

This five-room apartment is designed to serve as a laboratory for the 
study of the problem of the household along many different lines. 
Its plan and equipment, its color schemes, furniture and furnishings, 
serve as concrete illustrations of art and economics applied to this 
particular place. Moreover, it can serve as a place for the practice 
of the principles of home management to students who \dsh. to special- 
ize along these lines. 

None of the rooms are large, but they are the usual rooms to be 
found in a small apartment. The place is not designed as a show place, 
as a "model flat," for the instruction of the general public in good 
housekeeping, but rather as a place where, under some of the limita- 
tions of a modern apartment, students can find and exemplify accord- 
ing to their ability, the problems connected with the cost of food and 
care of the house. 

While provision is thus made for the newer occupations of women, 



1 9 14] College Extension in Domestic Science 41 

such as the dietitian, the manager of the lunch room, and the social 
worker, better facilities are thus afforded for the student who wishes 
to study the problems of the school or of the home. The department 
of course provides an excellent laboratory for the study of the activi- 
ties of the home. 

So much has been said thus far about the extensions and additions 
on the scientific and economic sides that one might receive the im- 
pression that the art side has been neglected. That impression is 
changed as one walks through the new building and observes the 
two large rooms on the second floor, equipped for sewing, costume 
design, and weaving, and the spacious laboratory of applied science 
where pro\'ision is made for the study of the chemistry of textiles, as 
well as the problems of nutrition. 

The new building, therefore, means enlargement of the resources 
of the department not only in the old and accepted lines of work, 
but also in the distinct addition of some of the newer phases of the 
world's work. 

COLLEGE EXTENSION IN DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Robert Woods 

South End House, Boston 

Two years ago a group of experienced settlement executives came 
together in an unusually solemn session. They had reached the con- 
clusion that something must be done to make their classes in cooking 
and other household subjects more serviceable and more vital. It was 
felt that the situation as a whole required careful experimental study 
and that a higher grade of instruction, which should become systema- 
tized and standardized for all the settlements, was a necessity. 

With this sense of a deep, unfulfilled need so far as their field of 
service was concerned, the settlement workers had the conviction that 
they had a very real opportunity to offer. They realized, of course, the 
great call of the public school system for teachers of domestic science; 
but because of that fact they held that the range of experimental train- 
ing which the settlements could afford to advanced students under 
competent direction was of the very greatest value. In addition, it 
seemed to them that the very diflaculties of settlement teaching — 
its lack of formal school sanctions, its necessary adaptation to humble 



42 The Journal uj Home Economics [February 

standards and peculiar traditions, and its complex relations w^th a 
scheme of neighborhood betterment — constituted it a rare field for the 
training of those who should aspire to the higher posts in pioneering 
and administrative work for the public school system in the future. 

These considerations were laid before the authorities of Simmons 
College, some of whose undergraduates had for a number of years 
given assistance at different settlements. The College in reply pro- 
posed that under a competent supervisor a definite system be organ- 
ized through which the classes in cooking and other household pursuits 
should be conducted by its advanced students. The super\isor was 
to be, on the one hand, an oflScer of the college, and on the other hand, 
an official member of the staff of such houses as might enter into the 
plan. Twelve settlements entered enthusiastically into this project; 
and work under it was begun in October 191 1, with Miss Marie Lund- 
berg, of Simmons College, in charge. 

For the first year Miss Lundberg, somewhat after the fashion of the 
country school-teacher, boarded around at the different settlements in 
order to become acquainted with the neighborhood problems in the 
different districts of the city. This year she is residing continuously 
at the South End House. Working imder her direction in thirteen 
different settlement houses, are twenty-five seniors and fifteen special 
students, with thirty-five juniors assisting and preparing for more 
responsible work next year. The work of all these students at the 
settlements is considered as an integral part of a course in normal 
training in which they are entered at the College. Each student 
teaches one class per week. In preparation for each lesson she makes 
out her own outline and lesson plan to meet the needs of her class. 
Frequent conferences are held with the students. One period per week 
the students come together for discussions and criticisms with the 
supervisor. The seniors taking this course are required to take a 
course in education with Miss Arnold. In discussions to bring out 
the essential principles of teaching, the practical experience of the 
students in the settlement classes furnishes illustrations. 

A course of study for the students has been made to aid them in 
grading the work done by the children. A graded scheme of cooking 
lessons for three years' work has seemed advisable in order to prevent 
a needless repetition of lessons. Every effort is made to open the 
eyes of the student-teachers to the telling points in the particular kind 
of class work which they are undertaking. 

The settlement classes are made up mostly of children under four- 



1914] College Extension in Domestic Science 43 

teen. It is hoped that the steady continuance of this system will make 
it possible to retain the interest of girls in domestic matters, during 
the baflfling years from fourteen to eighteen, with a scheme of instruc- 
tion which can presuppose elementary housework and will extend to a 
greater variety of interests involving new ways of applying the imagi- 
nation. A certain number of young women are reached, particularly 
those who are engaged to be married, and also some married women. 

An increasing effort is made to follow up the instruction in the homes 
of the children — to see that the lessons are applied, to secure the 
cooperation of the mother, to gain educational results with the mother 
herself, and to learn in the most practical way how to adapt class in- 
struction to meager home facilities. 

The equipment for classes varies at the different houses. In some 
there is provision for group work, in others only for individual work. 
The utensils are in most cases similar to those in use in the homes and 
are pretty generally limited to the essential ones which should be used 
and can be procured by even the poorest families. 

Thus the students are really participating in the settlement method 
of attack upon neighborhood problems, and their constant association 
with settlement workers opens up to them many new ways of personal 
influence over their pupils and of reaching conditioning factors in the 
background. Some members of the teaching corps are making special 
studies of the Jewish, Italian, and other immigrant dietaries. From 
time to time, more or less formal conferences are held between members 
of the corps and settlement executives for the sake of a clearer and 
fuller understanding of settlement methods and motives. 

The breadth and actuality of this training, together with the exper- 
ience in leadership of assistants which the senior students are ha\ing, 
certainly constitute an opportunity similar to that which young physi- 
cians and medical students find so essential through their graded hos- 
pital appointments. The juniors who have had a year of training in a 
subordinate position under the system will be able both to give and to 
get more than those who have not had their preliminary opportunity. 
After this year it is expected that every teacher in charge will have had 
a year's practice as assistant. As a whole, the plan gives abundant 
promise of realizing the hopes held out in the beginning that this 
system would send out women who could and would assume initi- 
ating responsibilities in the ever growing service of domestic science 
education. 



44 The Journal of Hotne Economics [February 

AN EXPERIMENT IN TEACHING ECONOMICS 

Sarah J. McLeod 

Pratl Institute 

Our work in economics really begins with the junior students in 
household administration. Our course differs very little from other 
courses in administration. We take up as thoroughly as possible in 
the time at our disposal the division of income and the division of 
labor in the household, and systems of household accounts. This 
course was placed in the first term of the first year. Our students have 
begun to keep personal accounts under our supervision in a prescribed 
form of classified account books. As this is the first year of this ex- 
periment, our data are incomplete. When we have an account of the 
expenses for one year of every senior household science and arts stu- 
dent, we expect to be able to make some interesting studies of the ex- 
penses of the Pratt Institute household science and arts student. The 
personal expense account ought to be of great value to the household 
science student. Our experience has been that the average nineteen- 
year-old girl has, in most cases, very little idea of how she spends her 
money. She knows, perhaps, what her monthly allowance is and in 
most cases she knows that she spends all of it, but she does not know 
how and where her income goes. Account-keeping has always been to 
her an irksome task but under instruction the girl becomes so much 
interested in watching her expenditures that her account book is not 
a wholly dismal affair. 

One period of class work a week and two hours for preparation have 
been allowed for this course in economics, and it is required of all 
senior household science students. We use no textbook. In the class 
period a concise lecture is given, really an outline of the work for 
the following week, and then each student chooses from a list of 
references those she wishes to read. In this way she becomes ac- 
quainted with economics literature and it seems to us that one object 
of so short a course should be to acquaint the student with as many 
good authorities on economics and sociology as possible so that she 
may know where to gain further information. Any course in economics 
can be only a starting point. 

During the first two terms we deal with economic theory beginning 
with definitions. It is surprising how few students know anything 



1 9 14] -^^ Experiment in Teaching Economics 45 

about the original meaning of economic terms and how these meanings 
have changed. We then take up the evolution of industrial society, 
beginning with the family and following the development through the 
handicraft, domestic, and factory systems, and as students of house- 
hold science we watch closely the influence on the position of women. 
The next subjects considered are the production and consumption of 
wealth; then follows the distribution of wealth. Banking and mone- 
tary history are touched upon in a very limited way. 

Our third term is given to a survey of practical sociolog},\ We begin 
by trying to bridge the gap between the work in economics and soci- 
ology. We study the causes of poverty, take up the different relief 
measures, and the study of constructive and preventive philanthropy. 
The first subject is housing: we try to get an understanding of present 
conditions and their improvement over older conditions; then we con- 
sider proposed housing reform. The next subject is the study of the 
child in relation to his home environment, and the effect upon the wel- 
fare of the child of the following movements: play ground, recrea- 
tion center, public bath, the introduction of household science and arts 
and manual training into the schools, medical inspection in schools, and 
school nursing. Then follow the problem of child labor, the question 
of social insurance and the effect of each upon the other; then naturally 
follows the study of the woman in industry, her wages and the condi- 
tions under which she works. We study as far as possible from pub- 
hshed statistics her division of income and how she might divide her 
income more advantageously if she saw things in a truer relationship. 
It is surprising to see what keen interest is shown in this subject and to 
note the effect that household science and art courses would have upon 
the present use and division of income. In this short course we can 
give to our students only a slight acquaintance with economic and 
social questions but their interest proves that they will continue their 
studies and apply the knowledge gained. 



46 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

CLUB WORK IN HOME ECONOMICS: FEDERAL AND 
STATE CONTROL OF FOOD 

Helen Louise Johnson 

During the last few months we have had the privilege of conferring 
with the Secretary of Agriculture and others concerning the food work 
which the Home Economics Committee of the Federation of Women's 
Clubs has undertaken in cooperation with the Public Health and 
Legislative Departments. The necessity for uniformity in the matter 
of food legislation is being discussed throughout the country. It 
furnished the subject matter for an entire session at the last meeting 
of the American Public Health Association in Colorado Springs 
where Dr. Lederle of New York City said: ''The aroused nation- 
wide public sentiment which led to the enactment of the Federal 
Pure Food Law resulted in enormous benefit to the public." He 
said further that to enforce and improve it, "there is pressing need 
for continuous and practical cooperation among oflBicial agencies, fed- 
eral, state and municipal, and this cooperation should have for its 
first object the adoption of uniform food laws, definitions, rules and 
regulations and, as far as possible, uniform methods of enforcement." 

Plans have already been formulated by the Secretary of Agricul- 
ture for certain reorganizations in the Bureau of Chemistry looking 
toward a more effective administration of the Food and Drug Act, 
and toward greater constructive technological assistance to manu- 
facturers to help them to avoid waste, reduce cost of manufacture, 
and to develop pure products which will comply with the law. A 
definite effort is to be put forth to make this act more of a hygienic 
measure through increased attention to milk, eggs, oysters, and fish, 
some of the foods which are subject to organic contamination and 
may become carriers of disease. We can hope that similar hygienic 
measures will be forthcoming for regulating the handling, market- 
ing and sale of vegetables, fruits and other foods which may also 
become contaminated and convey filth and disease if conditions 
surrounding them are not good. 

The housekeeper has not fully understood the limitations of the 
Federal Food Law nor the discrepancies between state laws which 
cause great confusion and affect the cost of production, distribution 
and sale. When the laws regarding labeling mean that a package 
of cereal to be sent throughout the country' must be labeled in at least 



1 9 14] Club Work in Home Economics 47 

five diflferent ways, there is not only a loss in the actual value of the 
label, but an undue increase in the cost of the package. 

One of the things which the buyers of food very often do not realize 
is that the federal statute applies only in the District of Columbia and 
in interstate commerce. State autonomy is one of the inherent rights 
granted by our constitution. The individual state is responsible for 
the health and well being within the state. 

At the annual conference of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws 
held in Montreal in August last, the Committee on Purity of Articles 
of Commerce was directed to "institute such inquiries into the food 
and drug laws of the various states as shall determine in what re- 
spects they are incongruous and inconsistent v/ith the National Food 
and Drugs Act and to report to the Conference such recommendations 
as in the judgment of the Committee will harmonize such laws and 
further the promotion of complete harmony of food and drug laws 
throughout the United States." 

At a meeting of this committee on Purity of Articles of Commerce 
held in New York City, in November, one entire day was given over 
to expounding the troubles of manufacturers in trying to comply 
with varying state laws and the difficulties experienced by Govern- 
ment inspectors and others in the service. Our representative was 
forced to ask if the laws had been designedly devised to give employ- 
ment to lawyers, for there seemed no other good excuse for such 
discrepancies and trouble. The Secretary of Agriculture has re- 
quested that authority be granted to prepare and submit such amend- 
ments to the Food and Drug Act as may be deemed needful to safe- 
guard the health of the people, to estabhsh standards, better define 
drugs, improve the food supply and promote uniformity in the matter 
of food legislation. The work that our committee has undertaken is, 
then, in line with those forces which are working toward improv- 
ment of conditions surrounding our food supplies. 

The great need of the women is to educate themselves in wise 
buying. They should learn to read the entire label and find out what 
preservatives or other ingredients are specified, and not merely read 
the guarantee phrase and conclude that the Government has tested 
the article for purity, and that therefore it must be all right. They 
should realize that the guarantee label is in reality only a guarantee 
from the manufacturer to protect the jobber or retailer. 

Much of the confusion over the Food and Drugs Act comes from the 
prevalent but mistaken idea that it is operated like the Meat Inspection 



^8 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

law. Under the Meat Inspection law the inspectors actually see the 
animals when alive, see them slaughtered, and examine the carcasses 
after slaughter. Meat which passes inspection is stamped "U. S. 
Inspected and Passed" and is therefore really certified by the Federal 
Department. Before we could similarly guarantee other foods, it 
would be necessary for inspectors to be present in all factories through- 
out the entire process of manufacture. The meat inspection is pos- 
sible because there are only about 800 meat slaughtering and packing 
establishments that ship into interstate commerce. 

Women must also have clearly in mind the fact that the federal 
food work must necessarily be limited to interstate shipments of 
products. They should understand that the federal authorities can- 
not interfere with commerce within a state or have any right of entry 
and inspection into food factories within the state lines. A factory can 
be run under the most unsanitary conditions; milking may be done 
by a man recovering from scarlet fever, or milk may be produced on 
a farm where a member of the family is suffering from typhoid, 
and the federal authorities have no power to act. The state authori- 
ties, however, can enter these factories and, provided only that their 
laws are efficient and the funds at their disposal adequate, can pre- 
vent the sale of such deadly unlabeled foods. 

We should appreciate fully the great importance of having well 
administered state and local supervision of food substances which 
may become disease-carriers; we should insist on rigid inspection 
and then prevent the handUng of these substances in shops where 
they are exposed to flies, dust, dirty hands and other contaminating 
influences. 

When the state funds are apportioned between various depart- 
ments, there is rarely, if ever, an amount given to a health depart- 
ment which will enable it to amply care for all the problems pre- 
sented. The housekeeping of a state does not greatly differ from that 
of the home in the consideration of the greatest need for expenditure 
without neglect in other directions. Procuring safe water and milk 
supplies, for instance, may absorb the major part of the funds. Before 
we criticize our city or our state, let us learn the actual facts and then 
lend our constructive aid to those movements which will result in the 
greatest good to the greatest number. This requires educated, intelli- 
gent judgment. 

First, then, we are to seek that knowledge of the discrepancies in 
state laws which make misunderstanding add unduly to cost of man- 



1914] Club Work in Home Economics 49 

ufacture and distribution, and which mean the use of money better 
spent on other things. We are to inform ourselves fully on the de- 
tails of definitions of food and adulterations, on labels, guarantee 
clauses, net weights, etc. When we request or discuss needed meas- 
ures we should also attack the clean food problems, for it has been 
shown that here lies the greatest danger. Dr. Barnard of Indiana 
takes his stand on the necessity of inspecting those who handle foods 
as well as the food itself. The dangers from food adulterations are 
small compared with the dangers of dirty food, but this phase is only 
now coming to the front. 

We are to study our local sanitary code, city and state health laws, 
and ascertain the limitations of the health ordinances, the power of 
ofl5cials and the funds at their command. Wc are to compare our 
laws with those of other states. Wisconsin, for example, has advanced 
food laws. 

We are to know whether food and other health matters are en- 
trusted to temporary health officers, whether there is adequate or 
poor inspection, whether there is a county health officer, and how 
these men are appointed and what they are paid. 

We need to assist in extending the work of the federal control of 
foods so that, while still protecting the consumer from adulterations 
or misbranding which means a monetary fraud, it may prevent the 
shipment of the dangerous unlabeled foods which can, and too often 
do, transmit disease. 

We need to ask for effective state- wide measures in all states and an 
efiicient permanent staff of health officials who will vigorously super- 
vise the food supply. 

There must be a constructive, educational campaign begun among 
ourselves. There is much to be done, but first we must learn what 
exists and what has been done in order that we may build on this 
foundation and wisely cooperate with the work of both our federal 
and state oflScials. 

Our committee is willing to assist in suggesting topics, programs, 
study or practical work for any club whose work has been here-to- 
fore solely devoted to historical, literary, scientific, philanthropic, 
civic or art topics, and to try to prove or show that in each of these 
fields there is a fund of rich material directly applicable to Home 
Economics. 



^o Tlie Journal of Home Economics [February 

STUDIES ON FLAX RETTING. T. TAKODORO' 

[A SUMMARY] 

Ellen Beers McGowan 

Department of Household Chemistry, Teachers College, Columbia University 

This valuable addition to the literature of flax retting contains the 
results of a more exhaustive study of the process than seems to have 
been made by any European or American investigator. The re- 
searches were not confiiied to the microscopical and chemical changes 
in the fiber bimdles and their cementing materials, but cover the whole 
extent of the retting phenomena, the changes m different stages of 
retting, and the nature and activities of the micro-organisms involved. 

Tokodoro's investigation was carried on near Sapporo, a center for 
the flax industry in Japan. The flax was typical in size and quality, 
and was retted in a large crate according to the usual method in that 
section. The author's description of the system is as follows: 

"In the large crate system a pit about 60 feet long and 9 feet wide is 
dug in a location where the inlet and outflow of water can be easily 
managed, and in it is placed a large crate of woodwork. Each crate 
mil hold about 8000 kin (13,200 pounds) of flax stems. 

"When the fermentation is complete, the bundles are drawn out 
and are placed close together, standing on the bank for at least six 
hours to allow the water to drain off. When they become firm enough 
to be transported, they are spread out for drying. When the drying 
has attained the proper degree, they are again bound into large bundles 
and kept in a storehouse for future technical manipulations. 

"The duration of immersion depends largely upon the temperature 
of water and air, the qualities of stems, and other natural conditions. " 

With respect to the anatomical changes during retting, the author 
states that retting was divided into three periods, and each period 
covered nearly the same number of days. At the end of the last 
period, not only the separation of the cambium layer and the isolation 
of the fiber, but also the destruction of the cuticle had taken place. 
The separation of the cambium layer from the xylem portion takes 
place first; then follows the destruction of the cortical parenchyma and 
some parts of the epidermis; and finally the isolation of the fiber itself 
and of the cuticle. 

' Jour. Coll. of Agri., Tohoku Imper. Univ., Sapporo, Japan, 5, 1913, pt. 2., pp. 
31-55- 



1 9 14] Studies on Flax Retting 51 

The investigator found that in water retting as practiced commonly 
in Hokkaido, the loss of the stem due to the combined action of micro- 
organisms and the extractive power of water is about 18 to 19 per cent. 
When the retting water is not changed, the loss is 14 to 15 per cent. 
The loss in the stem proper is about 4 per cent less than the amount 
above stated. About 50 to 60 per cent of the total loss is induced by 
the extractive power of the retting water, which is naturally influenced 
by the frequency of change. In Europe the loss of weight is calcu- 
lated as about 30 per cent of the original weight in dew retting, about 
25 per cent in water retting, and 40 to 50 per cent in mud retting. In 
the United States, it is estimated at about 18 to 18.5 per cent in com- 
mon water retting, while in double retting the loss is about 14.5 to 
15.5 per cent in the first watering, and about 8.8 to 9 per cent in the 
second watering. 

The general conclusions drawn by the author are the following: 

1 . Cutin is the essential constituent of cuticle, and tannin is found 
in the epidermal cell. Fiber consists of cellulose with a small quantity 
of pectin compounds, protein, and fat-like substance as its integral 
part. On the other hand, the cell wall of cambium, epidermis, and 
parenchyma is made up principally of pectin compounds wdth a small 
quantity of cellulose. The middle lamella of fibers is composed mainly 
of pectin compounds. Lignin forms the chief constituent of the cell 
wall of xylem, while pectin compound forms that of the pith. 

2. Water retting involves anatomical as well as chemical changes of 
the flax stem. In the first stage of retting, we observe the destruction 
of the cambium layer, and then of the parenchyma, accompanied by 
the separation of fiber bundles. As the retting proceeds, the isolation 
of the fiber itself and the detachment of cuticles take place. Nearly 
all of the constituents of the stems are subjected to chemical changes 
which are induced by the combined action of microorganisms and the 
extractive power of water. The loss of weight in the stem may there- 
fore be taken as a measurement of retting grade. 

3. The anatomical and chemical changes take place not on all parts 
of the stem, but only on the bark portion, i.e., outer layers of cambium. 
The xylem and pith remain almost unchanged. 

4. The essential matters which are lost during retting are pentosan, 
or gummy substance in the bark portion, and fiber (cutm, lignin and 
cellulose). Of the three ingredients composing pentosan-free fiber, 
the lignin remains almost unchanged, cellulose loses its small quantity 
accompanying the destruction of surrounding tissues of fiber bundles 



r2 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

in the bark portion, and cutin is detached mechanically in the later 
stage of retting, with the destruction of other tissues. 

5. Among other ingredients, tannin is lost completely. The larger 
part of mineral matters and of glucose is also lost. The quantities 
of protein and fat are very small and their loss may be neglected in 
consideration. 

6. The gummy substance, or pentosan, in the bark portion of the 
stem is made up largely of xylan and araban, with a small quantity of 
methyl pentosan. 

HOME ECONOMICS DAY AND THE RICHARDS FUND 

Benjamin R. Ant)rews 
Chairman, Memorial Committee 

Reports of the observance of Home Economics Day, or Richards 
Day, began to come to the Richards Memorial Committee immedi- 
ately after December 3. The Home Economics Association of Wash- 
ington, D. C, the University of Maine, the Latter Day Saints High 
School of Salt Lake City, and the schools of Coldwater, Michigan, 
were among the first to report, with contributions varying from $5 
to Si 5. Other reports have followed. The Cogswell Polytechnic 
School of San Francisco arranged an exhibit of old and rare fabrics. 
A fuller report of this will be foimd in News from the Field. 

The Tubman High School at Augusta, Georgia, arranged an ob- 
servance under the direction of Miss Clyde B. Schuman, the teacher 
of Home Economics. Work was exhibited and classes in sewing and 
cooking in operation were \dsited by the several hundred patrons who 
attended the exhibit. In the hall, booths for the sale of tea, sand- 
wiches, candy and fancy articles, had been arranged and decorated 
in the colors of the various classes, each of which managed a booth. 
The sales realized a net contribution of $25 for the Richards Fund. 
A committee of students welcomed the visitors, and the local press 
spoke highly of the impression made by the exhibit. 

The School of Domestic Science at the Battle Creek Sanitarium sent 
S3 1.50 and with not less loyalty a school in Kentucky sent its contri- 
bution of Si. 55 and its hope for larger success another year. At the 
Albany, New York, Normal College, an address on Mrs. Richards was 
given by Professor Cooley of Teachers College, while at Pratt Insti- 
tute, Brooklyn, one of the most striking observances was carried out 



1 9 14] Home Economics Day 53 

by a committee of students who provided a speaker from each of the 
several departments of the School of Household Arts and Science, 

The Richards Memorial Committee desires to announce that ob- 
servances may still be arranged in pubhc and private institutions for 
any convenient day in the current school year. Programs were sug- 
gested and outlined in the September Bulletin of the Home Economics 
Association, and will be furnished on request. 

A suggestion for the Richards Memorial Day yet to be tried by 
many club and school groups is along the line of bringing town and 
country nearer together. The women's clubs of any city could ask 
country schools in their neighborhood to hold an exhibit and sale of 
cakes, candies and other articles made in their departments for the 
benefit of the Fund, the cost of materials to be deducted from the 
gross receipts. Incidental advantages of the plan need not be cited. 

A national committee is now being formed with representatives in 
each state, to promote the observance of Home Economics Day, and 
in certain states as North Dakota, much progress has been made. 
The plans for 1914-1915 are already being drawn up and provide for a 
celebration of December 3, 1914, as a " Richards-Rumford Day," in 
joint recognition of the one hundredth anniversary of the death of 
Count Rumford, the first scientist to study home problems, and of 
the services of Ellen H. Richards, whom all revere as the founder of 
the Home Economics movement. Sales of the Life of Ellen H. Rich- 
ards by CaroHne L. Hunt ($1.62 postpaid), the Syllabus of Home 
Economics (paper, 50 cents, cloth $1), and the new monograph The 
Visiting Housekeeper (paper 25 cents, cloth 50 cents) will aid the 
Fund. Orders may be sent to the Journal. 



EDITORIALS 

With this issue the Journal begins a new department, whose aim 
\^-ill be to offer material that shall be of definite help to the housewife 

in solving the questions that present themselves to 
The New her daJy in the running of her home. This is not 

Department such an innovation as might appear, for, as any one 

who has read the Journal will agree, although many 
technical and scientific articles have appeared, in every number there 
has also been much that the interested reader as well as the special- 
ist could directly apply to the problems of food, clothing, and shelter. 
But as universities provide technical schools, although their regular 
scientific courses are rich in suggestion of what may be used in the 
practical arts, so the Journal has established a Housekeepers' De- 
partment:, since it feels that the woman running a household has a 
right to demand that the reports of scientific work in chemistry, 
physics, etc., should be shorn of many details that play a necessary 
part in the training of student and teacher and be presented in a 
form more directly suited to the needs of the home. The housewife 
is working under pressure, often of the hardest, and has little time for 
study. ELnowledge to be of most use to her must be in a highly diges- 
tible form, if not predigested. She is running a business whose daily 
output of three meals a day, with warmth and comfort and order for 
a household must not fail, and she cannot turn this home factory 
into an experiment station. Although she can and does gather knowl- 
edge by experience, this is often more costly in the end than lab- 
oratory work, and, moreover, there remain a great number of prob- 
lems which need for their solution every means research has at its 
disposal, and so it is right that others should solve many of the 
housekeeper's problems and give her the results in concrete form. 
It should be noted that housekeepers' problems are already receiv- 
ing attention in laboratories, and the interest in such research is 
growing. The Journal in its new Department will endeavor to 
keep the housekeeper informed of the progress which is being made 
and to help her to use the valuable data which are being accumu- 
lated. 

54 



1Q14] Editorials 55 

Our plan will be to cover a few main lines of work. 

I. Reports on the best resources in equipment, arrangement, and 
house construction. 

II. Reports and suggestions on standard processes now carried on 
in the house. Our object is to bring about greater economy of ma- 
terials, time and energy; but at the same time to reveal the principles 
on which such improvements are based in order to show the way to 
other improvements, thus introducing motive and interest into what 
is too often monotonous drudger>'. It has been abun<lantly proved 
that many principles of the new business efficiency can be applied to 
housework; the best result of an effort to apply them is what has been 
called "the efficient attitude of mind." 

III. To give the scientific principles underlying questions of founda- 
tional importance classifiable under food, clothing, and shelter. For 
instance, in our present issue we give the basic principles of nutrition 
illustrated by menus, an article which we consider so complete and 
so valuable that we shall later refer to it rather than restate it; and 
we hope to develop a new cumulative index that shall make such 
reference easy and rapid for the reader. 

IV. To show cooperative resources: (a) cooperation from within the 
household; (b) cooperation in neighborhood groups; (c) cooperation 
in municipal, state, and government reforms. 

The "extra" housekeeping or the development of household arts 
practiced outside the home will include experiments of groups in co- 
operative buying and cooking, and laundry work; the sanitary condi- 
tion and methods of inspection of pubHc laundries, bakeries, markets, 
etc.; laws relating to weights and measures and their enforcement; 
comparison of cost and quaUty of work done in the house with that 
of work done out of the house. 

From various quarters we hear the cry, "Oh, reform it altogether!" 
We are told that as soap making went out of the house so must all 
other processes. We are urged to turn over at once aU house work 
to a mythical person called the speciaHst and to agencies not yet fuUy 
developed and still wholly independent of sanitary or other control. 
To their credit women have refused to do this. They ^i\\ first ex- 
amine these utiHties. Some ynl\ be adopted but many household 
methods will be retained as too intimate to comfort and health to be 
trusted in outside hands. 

We hope to furnish material that is usable and timely, helping to 
meet present probems and to adjust methods to changing conditions. 



-g The Journal of Home Economics [February 

Our space will not allow us to print something under all these heads 
in every issue but a due balance will be kept, and whatever subject ■ 

is taken up will be treated on the basis of exact knowledge so far as fl 

the best workers can furnish it up to date. Studies are now being 1 

made for us in different laboratories by competent workers. 

With every decade there are to be found in the housekeeping ranks 
a greater number of intelligent and well-trained women, women who 
will not be content to follow an unmeaning round simply because it 
was done by those before them. The new unrest of the time, the 
growing skill that women are showing in team work, the habit of 
questioning all things are all leading to real discoveries concerning 
methods that shall make the indi\^dual home a financial, aesthetic 
and ethical success. 

The use of the score card as a measure of complex situations is 
spreading. It affords an objective method of measuring data that 

are otherwise difl&cult to judge fairly, e.g., dairy con- 
Score Cards dition, live stock, sanitation of restaurants, housing, 

house equipment, quaUty of bread, adequacy of nu- 
trition, etc. The method has been perfected in agricultural science 
and is equally necessary and appHcable in household science. The 
Executive Committee of the American Home Economics Association 
is arranging for a committee to study and report upon score cards in 
Home Economics. Those who have de\'ised or used such score cards 
are asked to send copies to the Journal. 

The Journal will be glad to buy at forty cents ($0.40) per copy 
the following numbers of the Journal: Volume I, number i, and 

Volume III, numbers 2 and 3. The amount for 
Back Num- returned numbers will be credited to the subscrip- 
bers "Wanted tion or paid in cash, whichever is desired. Please 

send to the Journal of Home Economics, Roland 
Park Branch, Baltimore, Md., and notify the Journal what num- 
bers are being sent. 



HOUSEKEEPERS' DEPARTMENT 

The editors of the Journal earnestly request assistance from the readers of this 
new department. They especially desire suggestions for timely topics on which 
information should be gathered; data either given directly or by reference to books 
and articles; and records of personal observation. 

MENU MAKING AND THE NUTRITIVE VALUE OF 

MEALS^ 

Emma S. Jacobs 

The menus given below furnish some idea of proper combinations 
of the various food stuffs and the amount of raw material needed for 
the individual doing moderate work. If every housekeeper will keep 
accurate record of the food purchased and the number of meals 
served from it, also of the weight of that which is thrown away she 
will soon have sufficient data to enable her to closely estimate 
the amount of food to be purchased for her family. This information, 
the study of bulletins on food,^ and close watching of the markets wdll 
help her to run her end of the business of homemaking in a scientific 
and economical way. 

The menus show not only the weight of the individual portion 
but also the amount of protein and of energy the portions supply. 
The values for weight, for protein and for energy, of the individual 
dishes, added together give the totals for a meal, and the totals for 
the three meals added together give the totals for a day's food. 

To help the housekeeper make other menus showing weight of 
portions and their protein and energy content, a table is given fol- 
lowing the menus which shows the weight and the protein and 
energy content of individual portions of a considerable number of 
foods or foodstuffs, particularly those commonly used. 

' For further study see page 15. 

2 U. S. Dept. Agr., Office Expt. Sta. Bui. 28 The Chemical Composition of 
American Food Materials. U. S, Dept. Agr., Office Expt. Stas., Circ. 46. The 
Functions and Uses of Food. 

57 



58 



The Journal of Home Economics 



[February 



Mentis: Weight of foods per person and their protein and energy content 



Breakfast 

One peach 

Cream of wheat 

with cream 

Soft cooked egg 

Coffee with sugar and ci am. 
Rolls with butter 



Total. 



Lunch 

Cream soup of green peas 

Bread and butter 

Blueberries with sugar and milk. 
Sugar cookies 



Total. 



Dinner 

Lamb broth 

Baked bluefish 

Mashed potatoes 

Buttered beets 

Tomato and cucumber salad. 

Apple tapioca 

Pudding with cream 

Bread and butter 

Coffee 



Total 

Total per day. 



I 



IS 



4 
3 
4 
3 

2i 

4 
I 



33t 



S9i 



PROTEIN 



ounces 
0.008 

O.IIO 
0.074 
0.268 

0.273 



0.733 



0.126 
0.273 
0.074 
0.07 



0543 



0.088 
0.088 
0.096 

0.096 
0.074 
0.273 



0.715 



I. 991 



calories 

27 

los 

46 

96 

57 
322 



653 



113 
434 
146 
120 



813 



25 

86 
194 
180 
296 
269 

46 
434 

57 



1587 



3053 



Breakfast 

Cracked wheat 

with cream 

Breakfast bacon , 

Creamed potatoes 

Com mufi&ns and butter. 

Total 



O.III 

0.074 

O.IOO 

0.092 
0.250 

0.627 



105 
46 
65 

128 
414 

758 



Menus: Weight of foods per person and their protein and t 


mergy content. — Con. 




WEIGHT 


PROTEIN 


ENERGY 


Lunch 

Split pea soup 


ounces 

3 

3J 

4i 


ounces 

0.258 
0.273 
0.167 


calories 
180 


Bread and butter 


322 
270 


Cream rice pudding 




Total 


II 


0.698 


772 




Dinner 
Tomato bouillon 


6 
8 
4 

2 

2 

4 

2 


0.088 
0.088 
0.056 
0.042 
0.273 
0.176 


30 
86 


Planked fish 


Baked potatoes 


96 

57 

32 

434 

267 


Stewed com 


Spinach 


Bread and butter 


Apricot short cake 




Total 


28 


0.723 








Total per day 


51 


2.048 


2532 




Breakfast 
Raspberries 


3 

2 

4 
3 

I 


0.02 
0.268 
0.088 
0.170 


138 
96 
96 

387 
57 


Plain omelet 


Baked potato 


Rolls and butter 


Coffee 




Total 


13 


0.546 


774 




Dinner 
Clam broth 


6 
4 

2 
2 
3 

4 

3i 

I 


0.772 
0.160 
0.042 
0.042 
0.250 
0.273 


30 


Baked chicken 


Boiled rice 


324 
12 




Swiss chard 


32 
761 
322 

57 


Cottage pudding 


Bread and butter 


Coffee 




Total 


2Sl 


1-539 


1798 




Chartreuse of beef 


5 

3i 

3 

2 


0.310 
0.273 
0.021 
0.160 


176 
322 
134 
106 


Bread and butter 


Baked apple and raisins 


Sponge cake 






Total 


I3§ 


0.764 


738 




Total per day 


52 


2.849 


3310 





59 



6o 



The Journal of Home Economics 



[February 



Weight, protein and energy of individual portions of some of the common foods 



2 level tablespoonfuls coffee for one cup 

I level tablespoonful sugar 

1 level tablespoonful butter = i inch square by § 

inch thick 

2 level tablespoonfuls flour (sifted) 

I tablespoonful olive oil 

1 level tablespoonful cocoa for one cup 

2 level tablespoonfuls fine tapioca 

\ cupful com meal 

\ cupful cream of wheat 

\ cupful rolled oats 

\ cupful rice 

\ cupful canned beans 

\ cupful canned peas 

1 cupful canned tomatoes (home product) 

\ cupful coarse hominy 

i cupful cottage cheese 

^ cupful fop milk for cereal 

J cupful cream sauce for vegetables 

\ cupful cream sauce for escalloped dishes 

i cupful cream sauce plus j cupful milk for cream 
soups 

3 slices bread, | in. thick, 4 in. square 

8 dates 

6 prunes 

1 apple 

dried apples, peaches, pears, apricots 

2 canned peaches, pears 

I egg (medium) 

1 potato (medium) 

6 lettuce leaves . - 

trimmed kale, spinach, other greens 

2 thin strips breakfast bacon (if melted fat from 

it is also used) 



macaroni 

cheese (American) 

1 strip ham, i| inches wide by 3 inches long. 

2 slices roast lamb or beef 



raisms 

1 banana (without skin) ... 
8 English walnuts (shelled) . 

16 almonds (shelled) 

2 loin chops (trimmed) 

3 sausage cakes 

2 potato croquettes 



2 
2 



2 
I 
2 

2| 
2i 

2i 

5l 

3 

2 

2 
2 
2 

5 

2 

4 

i| 

3 



PROTEIN ENERGY 



0.005 

O.OS4 
0.002 
0.168 
o. 220 

019s 

0.160 
0.022 
0.072 
0.012 
0.II6 

0.522 
0.074 

0.026 

0.052 
o. 126 

0.273 

0.042 
0.042 
0.008 
0.094 

003s 
0.268 
0.088 
0.018 
o 042 

0155 
0134 
0.144 

0.326 

0.768 

0.026 

0.065 

o. 166 
o. 210 
0.640 

0.390 

0.061 
0.096 



calottes 

57 

112 

52 

85 

38 

51 

194 

210 

135 

324 

32 

32 

65 

206 

80 

46 

34 

68 

"3 

210 
202 

175 
27 

161 
69 
96 
96 
9 
32 

130 
ro4 

64 
242 
264 
100 
144 
205 
189 
424 
398 

S6 



I9I4] 



Housekeepers' Department 



61 



The following table shows the general percentage composition and 
cost of some of the staple articles of food. The maximum and 
minimum figures are given in order that the range found under 
usual conditions may be seen. The prices given represent actual con- 
ditions noted at the time the paper was prepared. Such a table will 
help the housewife to compute the protein and energy content of 
individual portions of a number of foods (raw). The portion to be 
served should be weighed before cooking and the protein it supplies 
calculated from the weight of the portion and the percentage of 
protein in the foodstuff as shown by the table. The energy should 
be calculated from the weight of the raw material and the energy 
value for a pound of such material as shown by the table. The 
calculations involved are simple. 



Composition and cost of some common food materials 



NAME OF FOOD 



Meat — Beef, mut- 
ton, etc. 

Flank 

Neck 

Clod 

Round 

Loin 

Ribs 

Poultry 

Fish 

Milk — whole 

Skimmed 

Eggs 

Vegetables 

Potatoes, etc . . . 

Peas, etc., (dried) 

Peas (green) 

Cereals 

Green com 

Greens 

Tomatoes 

Fruits 

Nuts 

Macaroni 

Cheese 



COMPOSITION OF FOOD 



Protein 



per cent 



14-25 
14-21 
16-20 
16-20 
12-18 
11-19 
16-21 
10-22 
3,-ZS 
3-5-4 
11-16 

1-2 
12-24 

1-9 

6-16 

2-3 

2-5 
0.3-1 
0.1-1.5 

14-27 

7-16 

15-30 



Fat 



per cent 



1-27 
2-1 1 
1-17 
2-23 

13-24 
2-19 
1-20 
1-17 

4-5 
0.3-1 

8-15 

0.1-2 

0.5-3 

0.1-0.3 

0.1-6 

I-I.I 
0.2-0.5 
0.2-0.5 
o.i-i 

24-70 

1-5 

17-38 



Carbohy- 
drate 



per cent 



S 
5-6 



13-27 
57-70 
14-29 
69-81 
14-22 
3-10 

2-3 
8-29 

6-42 

67-76 

1-4 



Mineral 
Matter 



per cent 



0.5-1 
o.S-i 
0.9-1.5 

I-I-5 
0.9-1. 5 
0.5-1 
0.4-1.5 

1-2 

0.7 

0.7 
0.6-1 

0.5-1 

2-4 
0.7-2 
0.2-2 
0.7-0.8 

1-4 
0.3-o.S 
0.2-1 .1 

1-4 

0.3-7 

3-6 



Water 



per cent 



33-68 
18-14 
52-59 
50-65 
44-66 

39-73 
47-75 
35-85 
87 
90 
67-75 

67-84 
6-12 
58-89 
2-13 
72-18 
81-92 
91-96 
77-92 

2-45 
7-12 

31-45 



COST OP 

FOOD PES 

POUND 



10-15 
10-15 
15-18 
18-25 
25-40 
25-30 
22-30 
10-40 

4-6 

2-3 
20-40 

1^3 
8-10 
lo-is 
2-12 
not deter- 
mined 
2-25 
not deter- 
mined 
10-30 
10-20 
20-40 



62 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

The menus given are intended simply to illustrate the method of 
calculation and not as guides to be followed in detail in the planning 
of the daily diet. The quantities of protein and energy supplied are 
rather low and correspond to the minimum rather than the average 
for a man who is doing moderate muscular work. If a housekeeper 
planning meals for herself, her husband and three children should 
select these menus, she might well consider the children as adults and 
take five times the quantities named, instead of four as she would if 
allowances were made for the fact that a woman and a child eat on an 
average somewhat less than a man. The menus would then give an 
opportunity for the second helpings which the man and possibly others 
would want, and so increase the protein and energy secured per day. 

The menus may also serve as examples of meals which are well bal- 
anced as to variety and nutritive ratio, i.e., the proportion of protein 
to energy, and as examples of simple meals which are not too plain in 
character to appeal to those who like to pay attention to the graces 
of the table. In this respect, also, they m.ay be considered to repre- 
sent the minimum of such meals, for it is obviously easy to add to 
them but no one of the dishes could be taken away from the menu 
\\-ithout materially changing its character. The meals may easily 
be made more elaborate by adding one or more vegetables to the din- 
ner, or a salad now and then with or without cheese, by using milk 
as a beverage, and so on. Each added dish means more energy pro- 
vided, but need not necessarily increase the amounts eaten as many 
persons will simply eat a more varied, but not a more hearty meal. 

Generally speaking, the more elaborate the menu the greater its 
cost and the greater the opportunity for waste. If out-of-season 
fruits and vegetables are added, and other foods which have a high 
water content and consequently low nutritive value, the cost is in- 
creased out of proportion to the nutritive material supplied. How- 
ever, such foods are prized very largely for their wholesomeness and 
flavor rather than for nutritive material. If foods rich in protein and 
energy, like cheese or beans are added, the nutritive value w'ould be 
increased considerably and the cost not very materially. Such con- 
siderations as these are fundamental to the intelligent planning of 
meals, and housekeepers should learn to think about them in these 
terms. 



1 9 14] Housekeepers' Department 63 

A $3 AND A $16 LUNCHEON FOR TWELVE PERSONS 

In a recently published cook book^ Mrs. Thomas R. Marshall, 
wife of the Vice President of the United States, contributes to the 
discussion of possible economies in living, by giving data regarding 
two luncheon menus, one of them inexpensive and the other costly. 

Menu No. I 

Beef bouillon $0.45 

Filet of beef 3 .00 

Squabs 6.00 

Globe artichokes 2 . 00 

Potato balls .20 

(Salad) Grapefruit and pimentoes with lettuce and mayonnaise ... 1.95 

Roquefort cheese with crackers .50 

Fresh strawberry ice cream i . 40 

Angel cake .45 



$1.33 a plate. 

Menu No. II 

Tomato bouillon $0. 25 

Beef balls 66 

Tomato sauce .20 

New carrots .24 

Creamed potatoes .22 

Cabbage salad with cream dressing .45 

Tea biscuit .30 

Coffee jelly with whipped cream .40 

Eggless cake .20 



$2.92 
$0.25 a plate. 

In the discussion of the menus, it is pointed out that although 
the first is five times as costly as the second it supplies only a little 
more protein. In other respects the two menus are practically of 
equal nutritive value, and both in Mrs. Marshall's experience have 
been foimd palatable and pleasing. Recipes for the dishes enumer- 
ated are given in the publication cited. 

The menus afford a good illustration of the value of intelligence, 
skill, and thought, in the selection of the less expensive dishes and 

^The Economy Administration Cook Book. Edited by Susie R. Rhodes and 
Grace P. Hopkins. Published by W. B. Conkey Co., Hanmiond, Ind., 1913, 
pp. 696, pis. 46. Price $2.00. 



64 The Journal oj Home Economics [February 

their combination into menus which do not unduly sacrifice the 
pleasures of the table. The housewife who wishes to combine econ- 
omy with good living can with advantage study the menus for her 
daily meals by the method suggested in this comparison of lunch- 
eon menus. 

COOPERATIVE BUYING 

One may indeed wonder if the middle man sleeps well o'nights, so 
determined an onslaught is being made on his very existence. 

Cooperative buying clubs have been started in many places. We 
subjoin partial reports from four. 

No. I. The Civil Service Cooperators of Washington, D. C. Num- 
ber of members 200. Shares $1, each giving one vote with privilege 
of buying at the store. Preferred stock at $5 a share is also to be 
obtained through dividends or cash payment. The members receive 
on Saturday a list of articles in stock with current prices and they 
send in orders on Monday; delivery follows within two days. 

Just how the plan is working will be described in our next issue by a 
member who does not claim to be an enthusiast as to the principle, 
nor an optimist as to the success of the venture, but is apparently a 
keen observer of an experiment in which we are all interested. 

No. II. Cooperative Buying by a Club of Four. Experiment No. i. 
Several crates of strawberries were bought direct from a commission 
man at 6 cents a box (market price 10 and 12 cents) and delivered 
free to one address. The woman at whose house the delivery was 
made canned her berries at once and had no loss. Gain 50 per cent 
on purchase price. 

Second purchaser did not call for berries at once. When she canned 
them next day she found so much loss that the cooperative buying 
gave no advantage. 

Third purchaser carried eighteen boxes home on car, lost two boxes 
by accident, could not preserve the fruit until next day when addi- 
tional loss from keeping took away all profit. Adding to these losses 
10 cents for car fare she found that the high retail price charged at her 
own door in suburbs would have been cheaper. 

Fourth purchaser being a neighbor of the buyer paid nothing for 
delivery and had as good results as the first by preserving the fruit 
while the berries were in good condition. Gain 50 per cent. 

Experiment No. 2. Christmas order of nuts, prunes, candies, 
raisins, etc., purchased advantageously wholesale but purchasers 



1914] Housekeepers^ Department 65 

allowed the firm to think they were dealers having small stores. One 
person compared with an accurate list of her last year's order from 
large reliable retail firm and found same goods at wholesale cost 15 
per cent less. All the purchasers were pleased with quality of goods 
and money sa\ang but were not willing to again adopt misrepresenta- 
tion in order to gain profits. 

Experiment No. 3. One member tried to buy tea- toweling by the 
bolt but found that the grade she could buy (and then only because 
she was a friend of the dealer) was not satisfactory in quality. 

Experiment No. 4. Two purchasers in trying to buy apples, pota- 
toes, etc., found they could get advantageous rates only by the barrel, 
and they had no place for keeping this quantity without loss. 

Experiment No. 5. Wholesale grocery house refused to fill a large 
order unless the buyer had license. 

Conclusion. One member of the group should obtain a license and 
then purchase at a good reduction. Perishable goods are very diflficult 
to manage in wholesale lots, few houses having proper storage facili- 
ties. There may be large saving in buying ordinary dry goods or 
groceries cooperatively. The average woman of today is obliged to 
consider personal inconvenience, car fare, time consumed, exact 
quality wanted, and carrying of packages as overbalancing any but a 
substantial profit. 

No. III. The Cooperative Society of Montclair, New Jersey.^ Our 
store is now in its second year of existence and is doing a business of 
$100,000 annually. It serves over three himdred families, each one 
having contributed from $10 to $200 to form a capital of about $9000, 
sufficient to buy the appliances and stock. We are distributing 
per month about $10,000 worth of meats, fish, fruit, vegetables and 
groceries at a gross profit of about 20 per cent and a cost of 13 per 
cent for doing business. This 13 per cent includes the cost of deliv- 
ery. Part of this business is from non-members who do not share 
in the dividends, so that our present operations indicate a saving to 
the consumer of about 8 per cent with better assurance of cleanliness, 
purity, quality and measure than can be had at the average store. 

Our form of organization is that of the Rochdale Cooperative Store 
which consists essentially of stock subscriptions from members. In 
our case members take from one to twenty shares at $10 each, re- 
ceive 6 per cent per annum on stock from first earnings, each stock- 

^ Description given by the president of this society. More details with advice 
as to organization will appear in the April number. 



66 The Journal of Home Economks [February 

holder ha\'mg but one vote regardless of the number of shares he 
holds. All of the gains in excess of this interest, except for a small 
reserve fund which would usually go as profits to a proprietor, are 
divided among the members in proportion to the amount each has 
purchased. Goods are sold for cash only and at about the prevaiUng 
prices for same quaUty and service in other stores, the savings being 
paid back in the form of dividends. 

Our store has one novel feature in its method of meeting the deUv- 
ery of goods problem. This service, which has been found very ex- 
pensive in other places is by our system reduced to a cost of less than 
3 per cent on the gross business. The plan amounts to a charge for 
delivery but is put in the form of a bonus to those who do not use 
the delivery service. The plan is simply this: at the end of each 
quarter we give all oiu members credit for a discount of 5 per cent, 
the consumer who has had no dehvery receives this whole 5 per cent 
in cash while the housewife who has found it desirable to make use 
of the wagons is charged according to the service she has had, this 
charge being deducted from the 5 per cent. The charge is made at 
so much per call, being the cost which has been ascertained by divid- 
ing the total delivery expense by the number of calls made during the 
quarter. Our cost at present is around 9 cents per call. For example, 
if a woman has bought $100 worth of goods and had twenty-five 
calls she is credited v\ith $5 and charged with twenty-five times 9 
cents or S2.25, and receives a check for the remainder, $2.75. By 
this system the cost of dehverj', which in other stores amounts to as 
much as 10 or 15 per cent, is brought down to a very smaU figure, 
our cost for October being only 2\ per cent on the volume of business 
for that month. By this plan the member who makes no use of 
delivery is able to get all the saving the store makes thereby and the 
housewife is encouraged to so systemize her ordering as to require 
the wagon to come only when necessary. This is very different from 
what is the case with the ordinary store where a woman can have as 
many deUveries per day as she wishes and pays no more for her goods 
than the woman who carries her purchase home. 

No. IV. Cooperative Theatre a>id Opera Going. Experiment of a 
church club Uving in a suburb of New York. This is just a simple 
way of doing together what could be done separately with much less 
advantage. A season's ticket at the Metropolitan Opera House is 
not within the means of every one, but the season ticket holders 
naturally command the best seats. A group purchased two season 



1914] Housekeepers^ Department 67 

tickets together and each couple used them in turn, each hearing 
four or five of the twenty-three operas. It means that one may per- 
haps hear operas that he has already heard or cares less to hear than 
some others, but the underlying assumption is that, at the Metropoli- 
tan, any opera, old or new, is well worth the money and that the law 
of chance is fair in the long run and satisfactory exchanges can gener- 
ally be made. The group will undoubtedly enlarge from year to 
year and purchase more tickets. A fractional share of the new Cen- 
tury Opera Company stock has been taken in order that such a 
group may secure the full advantages of this opera enterprise also. 

The Drama Society has an annual membership which costs $40 a 
year. This entitles the holder to two of the best orchestra seats for 
an early performance of each of ten plays which they recommend. 
It is part of the growing movement to organize the playgoers and to 
influence the drama for the better by stimulating attendance at the 
good plays. The early weeks are the critical ones in the life of a new 
production and it must be supported then or be \\ithdrawn. Many a 
good play is discovered too late. As our church group wanted to lend 
a hand in this good work, we took one membership and the secretary 
of the group secured the names of ten couples, each willing to buy 
the tickets for some recommended play once during the year. This 
means that those of moderate means can do what, under present 
conditions, only the wealthy can afford. Each time a play is recom- 
mended the secretary telephones to those on her list until she finds 
some for whom the date is convenient and who desire to see that 
particular play. A certain measure of self sacrifice may be demanded 
in carrying out this plan, and utterly selfish people could not use it. 
But the advantages, which are partly altruistic and partly cultural, 
outweigh the obvious disadvantages. 

MARKET INVESTIGATION 

To illustrate what the united work of housewives can accomplish 
we quote from a report of the committee on markets of the Women's 
Municipal League of Boston. 

City regulations for provision stores are now in operation. They are compre- 
hensive, aim directly at local Boston abuses and should do a great deal of good. 
That these regulations were secured, the Board of Health states to dealers in the 
wholesale sections, is due to "the women's demand for them." 

We have in preparation a map of the city that shall have marked upon it by a 
sticker the location of every market in Boston. These stickers are of three different 



68 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

colors. By this device the grade of the market whether good, poor, or very bad 
can be seen at a glance. In this work we were aided by a group of twenty-four 
Radcliffe students who were given this work in our department to do in place of 
a thesis. 

Professor Monroe wrote us a letter of hearty appreciation of the quality and 
scope of the work. Because the work was to be done as a part of a college course 
great pains were taken in the preparation of the plans for the work. The scope, 
we feel, has proved all we hoped for it, and its working quality more than we dared 
hope. 

WTien the maps are completed and we have in hand a catalogue of all the mar- 
kets of the city, we intend devising a plan by which each natural section shall 
look after its own problen 5. 

DISEASE CARRIERS 

It is encouraging to note the progress that is being made all over the 
coimtry by women's civic leagues and by health boards in improving 
unsanitary conditions. 

Insects and pests have been vigorously fought, dumping grounds 
have been changed into garden plots, swamps have been drained, 
dairies and food manufactories have been regulated and inspected, 
owners of industries involving the use of poisonous chemicals (e.g., 
the manufacture of paint and matches) have recognized the right of 
their employees to work under conditions which are not a menace 
to health. 

The secretary of the Kansas State Board of Health, Topeka, Kan- 
sas, has prepared an outline for the use of women's clubs in studying 
health questions. Under foods and drugs appears a study of foods, 
including their preparation and preservation, a discussion of a proper 
ration and selection of foods, food adulteration, the sanitation of 
food suppUes, drug adulteration and drug addiction. Rural sanita- 
tion, school sanitation and hygiene, the cost of preventable disease, 
the disposal of waste and the conditions for a pure water-supply 
are some of the topics included in the outline. Reference to bulle- 
tins, government publications, journals and books are also included. 

In the June (1913) Bulletin of the Kansas State Board of Health 
we find this: 

In the United States the insect which we most fear, because it is the transmitter 
of so many diseases, is the common house fly. It has been incriminated as the 
distributing agent in practically all of the enteric group of diseases. Its annual 
death toll in the matter of infantile diarrhea, or summer complaint, is enormous. 
It is conceived in iniquity, bred in filth, and spends a life of crime. The eggs are 
laid by preference in manure, and this should be our starting point in killing off 



1 9 14] Housekeepers' Department 69 

this insect. Clean stables, proper disposal of manure, clean yards, proper disposal 
of garbage, screened houses, screened pantries, screened foodstuffs, all act as deter- 
rents to the spread of disease by this insect. Mechanical cleanliness is most im- 
portant; then comes the use of disinfectants, such as chlorinated lime, carbolic 
acid, cresylic-acid preparations, and the like; and, last of all, do not forget Paris 
green, sprinkled on garbage and manure. It kills ofif the maggots as they come to 
the surface. It is cheap, efficient, easily procured, and effective. 

In the extermination of vermin of any sort there is no royal road. The battle 
must be carried on along every avenue of the existence of the creature which it is 
desired to exterminate. Thus, in combating insects, they must be killed in the 
egg, the larval, the pupal, and the adult stages. They must be prevented from lay- 
ing eggs, they must be prevented from gaining sustenance, they must be fought by 
day and by night, in the places where they live, and advantage must be taken of 
an accurate knowledge of the breeding habits and life cycle of the species to be 
combated. 

Miss Jean Dawson of the Cleveland Normal School, who has done 
so much towards making Cleveland a flyless city has issued a pamphlet 
of useful information about flies. Various magazines have urged 
that this is the time of year to institute campaigns in order to destroy 
the flies that have wintered over and to clear away or disinfect breed- 
ing places. 

Mosquitoes of different species transmit malaria, yellow fever and 
other diseases. They lay their eggs in quiet water not only in swamps 
but in our back yards and eaves-troughs or wherever water is kept 
standing. What has been said about the general method in extermi- 
nating flies also applies to mosquitoes. They should be attacked in their 
breeding places. Pools and swamps should be drained or filled or 
treated with crude oil or salt. Where this is not safe small fish may 
answer the purpose. Cisterns, water barrels, or any receptacle that 
must be kept with standing water should be covered, and cans, 
flowerpots, basins, etc., should never be allowed to collect water. 
Doors and windows should be screened with a wirfe mesh of from 16 
to 18 to the inch. Additional screening for beds, if necessary, will 
prevent the mosquito from doing its most deadly work at night. 

The Rat — a Sanitary Menace and an Economic Burden is the title 
of an article in the U. S. Public Health Reports, vol. xxviii, 1913, 
no. 27. To quote in part: 

The estimate of one rat per human being for the continental United States coin- 
cides with that made for Great Britain and Ireland by the Incorporated Society 
for the Destruction of Vermin, and also with authoritative figures for Denmark, 
France, and Germany. 

The bubonic plague is, primarily and essentially, a disease of rodents, chiefly 



yo The Journal of Home Economics [February 

the different species of rat, and is conveyed to human beings from plague-infected 
rats through the agency of the fleas which infest the sick animal. 

The extermination of rats is not nearly so easy as fly destruction. An adult rat 
will on the average produce young six times yearly and from six to twelve young 
in ever>' litter. Rats can be destroyed by trapping, by poisoning, and by using 
natural enemies, as certain breeds of cats and dogs. To insure success to these 
measures it will be necessary to curtail the rat's food supply by properly disposing 
of garbage and table refuse and by preventing rats from gaining access to such food 
as is contained in pantries, groceries, markets, stables, etc. The prerequisite of 
successful trapping is that no food other than the bait should be available to the 
foraging rodent. Other things being equal, highly savory articles, such as cheese 
and toasted bacon, wiU more quickly attract rodents than will food without odor, 
but the idea that a rat can be enticed into a trap by the employment of bait more 
appetizing to him than the surrounding food supply is fallacious. In one instance, 
where a bakery was overrun with rats, cheese, bacon, meat, vegetables, flour, nuts, 
and e\'ery known kind of bait in turn was used without avail. Finally the bakery 
was moved and the building closed preparatory to rat-proofing. Three or four 
days after the removal of the stock, when all loose flour and food had been consumed 
by the rats, the trapper caught over 30 rats in one morning and in four days the 
place yielded a bag of some 80 rodents. Traps or poison placed in the neighborhood 
of an overflowing garbage pail, in a pantry with open bins and exposed food or in 
groceries and warehouses having foodstuffs spilled over the flour, will only result 
in wasted endeavor. 

.\long with other measures for the destruction of rats, all buildings, chicken yards, 
garbage receptacles, sidewalks, and planked areas must be built or repaired to 
prevent rat harborage. Plank sidewalks and plank coverings for yards should be 
avoided. Cinders or concrete are preferable for this purpose. The latter should 
have marginal protection to prevent rats from burrowing beneath it. Double 
walls with a dead space between should be avoided or if used, they should be rat- 
proofed at top and bottom. Attics should be well opened and kept free of dimnage 
or other refuge for rats. 

The municipal government will have to assist the efforts of citizens along these 
lines by creating and enforcing suitable rat-proofing laws. 

City water is often polluted because of lack of control of the water 
shed or because of indifference in regard to waste matter of all kinds 
that is emptied into a river along its course. In the country, sewage 
and water supply are frequently very closely related. Consequently 
peope who go from a city where the drinking water is safe, may be- 
come victims of typhoid. 

There should be such a united outcry against these conditions that 
every city and every country dweller would be compelled to furnish 
safe drinking water. Vacationists should refuse to patronize any 
country place which supplies impure water. 

If there is the slightest doubt as to the quality of the water which anyone is 
obliged to drink, the following simple remedy [according to the July (1913) Bulle- 



1914I Housekeepers^ Department 71 

tin of the Kansas State Board of Health] will make it safe: Get a one-pound metal 
can of chloride of lime, or bleaching powder. Take a level teaspoonful of powder 
and a few drops of water, and make a thin, smooth paste in a teacup. Then dilute 
this paste with four cupfuls of water. Place this stock solution in a clean, stoppered 
bottle and keep corked tight. 

This is enough to disinfect 250 gallons of water. Use a teaspoonful of this stock 
solution to two gallons of water. Stir well, and use in from a quarter to half an 
hour. If the water has a slight odor of chlorine, use slightly less of the stock solu- 
tion. Find out how much stock solution it takes to give a slight odor to the water, 
then use about one-fourth less than the quantity necessary to produce odor. 

Water thus treated is absolutely harmless. The chloride of lime is consumed 
by the water in ten or fifteen minutes, and even if it were not, in such small quan- 
tities it would be harmless. 

Fresh stock solution should be made every three or four days, and the powdered 
lime should be kept in a tightly closed can. 

CLEAN HANDS 

The beauty of clean, soft hands and well manicured nails is of no 
consequence compared with the vital point of cleanliness. When we 
consider the thousands of ways in which disease is transferred by 
imclean hands it is astonishing how unconcerned we have been and 
how placidly we allow the transfer of typhoid, tuberculosis, etc., to con- 
tinue in our homes, in schools, markets, hotels — in fact everywhere. 

Crusades have been conducted against flies, unclean streets, and 
various causes of occasional or possible infection or contamination 
but the unclean hands which constantly come in contact with food 
are allowed to carry on their deadly work undisturbed. It is true that 
some effort has been put forth by the best food manufacturers who 
have posted in their work rooms: "Never return to your work room, 
after any absence, ■vN'ithout washing your hands." If this were more 
commonly required the "Tj'phoid Mary" incidents would disappear. 

Diligence on the part of the housewives could soon bring about the 
elimination of this source of danger. There must be personal care 
that their own hands are thoroughly washed and rinsed in running 
water before going from the street, the toilet, or the general house- 
work into the kitchen — in short, before handling any food or any- 
thing that is to contain food. The same must be exacted from their 
cooks and servants. Their children must be taught to follow their 
example and also to avoid the habit of putting fingers into the mouth 
or of biting finger nails. 

By concentrated and cooperative effort outside the home they can 
demand clean hands in bakeries, groceries, markets, hotel kitchens. 



72 



The Journal of Eonie Economks [February 



dairies, and in every place where food is handled. Wrapped bread 
is an illustration of a defensive measure in a case where delivery may 
mean contact with hands that have just curried the horse. 

The cooperation of food manufacturers, food dealers, and food 
inspectors should be enlisted. 

Teachers can also aid in this good work by the proper instruction 
of pupils and by the demand for warm, running water and paper 
towels in the school lavatories. 

Publicity and open discussion of this topic, often regarded as too 
unpleasant to be mentioned, should be encouraged by every parent, 
housewife, and teacher. 

EXERCISE FOR THE HOUSEWIFE 

In the August-September (1913) bulletin of the Texas State Board 
of Health, Ella Randall Pearce makes suggestions in regard to dress 
and exercise for the housewife which, if carried out, the wTiter quoted 
believes vdW banish fatigue and promote good health and help the 
homemaker to secure a grossing increase in efficiency and prevent 
housekeeping from detractmg from the joy of H\ing. 

The early morning exercises are as follows: 

1. While lying in bed, slip the pillow from under the head, flatten 
the back, throw the arms outward, and stretch completely from head 
to foot. Then, folding the hands loosely above the stomach, inhale 
several full, deep breaths, dra^nng in all the air you can %nth com- 
fort, and slowly and regularly exhale in the same complete and delib- 
erate manner. 

2. Slip the feet under the foot rail or behind a broad strap arranged 
for the purpose; then, with the arms still loosely folded, draw the body 
up to a sitting posture, keeping the lower limbs straight. Relax very 
slowly, returning to the first position, and repeat this exercise several 
times. 

3. SUp the feet from their bonds and, lying flat, raise the lower limbs 
slowly and steadily to a position at right angles to the rest of the body, 
and repeat several times. 

Some task which has strained or cramped the body may be offset 
by the following: Stand erect with arms swung above the head, 
palms forward. Without bending at the knees sway forward and 
downward as far as is easily possible. Stand erect again; then, with 
arms still upright, swing backward in the same manner. After this, 



1914] Housekeepers^ Department 73 

place hands on hips, and, bending at the waist, lean forward; then 
backward; next to the right; then to the left; and finish by twisting 
the body at the waist line, by a succession of the foregoing movements. 
Other suggestions may be thus summarized: When at work, keep 
the body in correct position — head erect, chest forward, abdomen 
held in, and the weight of the body on the balls of the feet. Sit as 
much as possible at work, use the knees and hips more and the back 
less when stooping; keep the weight of the body over the feet when 
ascending or descending stairs, and take a few minutes of complete 
relaxation of body and mind every day. If there is no other time for 
outdoor exercise, at least walk to the market or the grocery. About 
the house wear comfortable, neat clothing, and by all means avoid 
worn out street-wear and ill-fitting, shapeless shoes, for slovenly 
habits in dress tend to induce slovenly habits in work and also a 
carelessness and lack of interest in all matters of importance to the 
homemaker. 

COST OF LIVING 

That the housekeeper's problem of the increased cost of living 
is not an imaginary one or one caused by increased extravagance is 
shown by a report of the Chicago Nursery and Half-Orphan Asylum. 

Average cost of maintaining one child for a year: 

1874 to 1883 $7998 

1884 to 1893 88 . 68 

1894 to 1903 loi .45 

1904 to 1913 140 . 60 

The contributions of food, clothing, etc. (not included in this esti- 
mate) were approximately the same during the different years and 
therefore do not affect the figures. 

WASTE IN PREPARING FOOD 

A paper by Charles S. Prizer read before the 40th annual meeting 
of the National Association of Stove Manufacturers, while mainly 
a plea for new methods of advertising in the stove business, introduces 
in its last section an idea which might develop interesting possibili- 
ties if properly worked out. The author estimates the total annual 
expenditure for food in the United States on a daily 25 cent per capita 
basis, and from that the value of food wasted, which he assumes to be 
10 per cent of the total food and which would thus amount in value 
to about $821,000,000. He assumes further (one is not told why) 



74 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

that 6 per cent of this loss, or ahiiost $50,000,000, is due to defective 
cooking apparatus, and thus paves a smooth, straight way to the 
economy of exchanging old stoves for new. As has already been sug- 
gested, the figures seem to have been chosen somewhat arbitrarily. 
The necessary data for calculating the considerable loss of fuel and 
material which is undoubtedly due to poor stoves ought to be obtain- 
able. Who wiU help us to obtain such data? 

SUGGESTIONS TO RELIEVE THE MONOTONY OF HOUSE 

WORK 

Early rising for the house\\-ife, the first hour to be spent in reading, 
writing or thinking, in order, first, to cultivate the use of the intel- 
lectual powers when they are at the freshest ; nothing \\\\\ give more 
satisfaction to the restless mind that now feels cheated of its rights 
by the all day requirements of housework. Second, to gain the power 
to put the duties of the coming day in their right relation and propor- 
tion — some to be held close, some kept at arm's length. For many 
this hour can be best gained after breakfast when the children have 
gone to school and the grown members to their work outside. A 
farmer's wife who had moved to town made this speech over a pound 
of bacon just delivered by the grocer: "I miss my pork barrel. Down 
in the cool, quiet cellar where I went to cut the pork before breakfast, 
I always took time to say my prayers and straighten out the day 
ahead of me." 

CREEDS FOR 1914 

We print two creeds that have been sent to us, both nobly stated 
and both appealing to large groups of earnest women. 

A Woman's Creed for igi4 

My home is my profession. 

I will apply to homemaking the same science and culture demanded by any other 
profession. 

I will not be the servant but the master of my work. 

I will protect my home interests; if need be, in town, state and national affairs. 

Above all, I will hold myself love's high priestess— that more love and more life 
may be. — Christine Frederick. 

A Creed of Work for Wom^n^ 

I believe that every woman needs a skilled occupation developed to the degree 
of possible self-support. 



'Reprinted from the American Magazine, June, 1913. 



19 14] Housekeepers^ Department 75 

She needs it commercially, for an insurance against reverses. 

She needs it socially, for a comprehending sympathy with the world's workers. 

She needs it intellectually, for a constructive habit of mind which makes knowl- 
edge usable. 

She needs it ethically, for a courageous willingness to do her share of the world's 
work. 

She needs it aesthetically, for an understanding of harmony relationships as 
determining factors in conduct and work. 

I believe that every young woman should practise this skilled occupation, up 
to the time of her marriage, for gainful ends with deliberate intent to acquire 
therefrom the widest possible professional and financial experience. 

I believe that every woman should expect marriage to interrupt for some years 
the pursuit of any regular gainful occupation; that she should pre-arrange with her 
husband some equitable division of the family income such as will insure a genuine 
partnership, rather than a position of dependence (on either side); and that she 
should focus her chief thought during the early youth of her children upon the 
science and art of wise family life. 

I believe that every woman should hope to return, in the second leisure of middle 
age, to some application of her early skilled occupation, — either as an unsalaried 
worker in some one of its social phases, or, if income be an object, as a salaried 
worker in a phase of it requiring maturity and social experience. 

I believe that this general policy of economic service for American women would 
yield generous by-products of intelligence, responsibility and contentment. 

— Laura Drake Gill. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY FOR HOME ECONOMICS 
LITERATURE 

Foods and Cookery 

The Popular Cooking Fat in Austria. C. L. Hoover, Daily Cons, and Trade 
Rpis. [U. S.], xvi, 1913, no. 180. p. 687. ("Speisefett," the principal ingredient 
of which is palm oil, is reported as being extensively substituted for lard.) 

Food and Other Analyses. R. E. Rose and A. M. Henry, Fla. Quart. Bui. Agr. 
DepL, xxiii, 1913, no. 2, pp. 124-127. 

The Significance of Loaf Volume. C. H. Briggs, Northwest. Miller, xcv, 1913, 
no. 2, pp. 79, 80, fig. I. 

Popularity of Banana Food Products. O. W. Barrett, Philippine Agr. Rev. 
(English Ed.], vi, 1913, no. 3, pp. 137-139- 

Hop Sprouts, An Early Spring Salad. Pure Products, ix, 1913, no. 4, pp. 167, 
168. 

Poisonous Properties of Khadi-Ferment. J. Burtt-Davy, Union So. Africa Dept. 
Agr. Rpt. 'u'ith App., igio-ii, pp. 244. 245. (The root of Mesembrianlhemum 
mahoni used in South Africa as a substitute for yeast in bread making.) 

Camp Cookery. Ava B. Milan and Ruth McN. Smith, Oregon Agr. Col. Bui. 
Ext. Ser., iii, no. i, p. 47, fig. i. 

Food Analyses. J. Hortvet, Minn. Dairy and Food Dept. [Bien.], Rpt. Chief 
Chem., xiv, 1911-12, p. 183. 

Analysis and Value of Concentrated or Condensed Chicken Soup. L. A. Cong- 
don, North Dakota Sta. Spec. Bui., ii, 1913, no. 15, pp. 246-256, fig. i. 

A Model French Kitchen. J. B. Osborne, Daily Cons, and Trade Rpts. [U. S.], 
xvi, 1913, no. 105, pp. 641, 642. 

Dried Bananas. Lancet [London], i, 1913, no. i, p. 44. 

Foods and Food Values, with Suggestions How to Reduce the Cost of Living. 
G. M. Dame et al, Mich. Dairy and Food Dept. (Pamphlet), 1912, p. 29, fig. 15. 

The Cooking of Roots and Tubers. C. H. Senn, Jour. Roy. Hort, Soc. [London], 
xxxviii, 1913, no. 3, pp. 540-544. 

Traveling Kitchens. N. D. Walker, Jour. Roy. Army Med. Corps, xx, 1913, no. 
3, pp. 248-274, figs. 12. (Descriptions of different sorts of portable kitchen equip- 
ment for army use, including devices which employ the fireless cooker principle.) 

The Comparative Composition of Human Milk and of Cow's Milk. E. B. 
Meigs and H. L. Marsh, Jour. Biol. Chem., xvi, 1913, no. i, pp. 147-168. 

The Structure of the Soy Bean. T. E. Wallis, Pharm. Jour., xci, 1913, pp. 120- 
123. 

Enzyme Action of Fresh Food. T. Tadokoro, Reprint from Jour. Coll. Agr., 
Tokio Imp. Univ., v, 1913, part ii, cf. Chem. Abs., vii, 1913, no. 20, p. 3512. 

To WTiat Temperature must one Raise Solutions of Sucrose, Glucose, Maltose, 
etc., to Transform them into Caramel? A. Aulard, Orig. Commun. 8, Internal. 
Cong. Appl. Chem. [Washington and New York] (appendix), xxv, 1913, pp. 493-499. 
76 



1 9 14] Bibliography of Current Literature 77 

Impurities in Table Salt. A. Anduard, Ann. FaJs., vi, 1913, pp. 52-58, cf. Chem. 
Abs., vii, 1913, p. 3626. 

Sugar and Acid in Oranges and Grapefruit. S. E. Collison, Univ. Fla. Agr. 
Exper. Sia. Bui., no. 115. 

Studies on the Factors Affecting the Culinary Quality of Potatoes. O. Butler, F. 
B. Morrison and F. E. Boll, Jour. Amer. Soc. Agrcn., v, 1913, no. i, pp. 1-33, fig. 4. 

Use of Com, Kafir, and Cowpeas, in the Home. C. F. Langworthy and Caro- 
line L. Hunt, U. S. Dept. of Agr. Farmers' Bui., no. 559. 

Canned Foods: Fruits and Vegetables. Florence R. Corbett. Teachers Coll. 
Bui., ser. 4, no. 12, February 15, 1913. 

Cooking and Heating with Electricity. C. T. Phillips, Arch, and Eng. (San 
Francisco], xxxiv, 1913-14, no. 3, pp. 93-99. 

Cost of One Year's Electric Cooking and Heating. Electrical World, Ixii, 1913, 
no. 13, pp. 643, 644, fig. I. 

Nutrition 

Menus for Family Meals. C. H, Senn, Cookery Ann. and Year Book Univ. Cook' 
ery and Food Assoc. [London], xix, 1913, p. 166, figs. 45. (Menus for seven days 
in each month in the year are suggested. 

Food Values and Living on Threepence a Day. F. J. Cross, Reporter Proc. Coun- 
cil (Charity Organ, Soc. London], 1913, pp. i-io, (Kind and cost of food used by 
poor families in England and Scotland.) 

Notes Regarding the Diet of the Laborer and the Mechanic (in Spain]. R. Otlet, 
Prog. Agr. V. Pecuario, xix, 1913, no. 809, pp. 119, 120. Abs. Expt. Sta. Rec., 
xxix, 1913, no. 4, p. 365. 

Boiled Versus Raw Milk — An Experimental Study of Milk Coagulation in the 
Stomach, Together with Clinical Observations on the Use of Raw and Boiled 
Milk. J. Brennemann, Jour. Amer. Med. Assoc, Ix, 1913, no. 8, pp. 575-582, fig. 8. 

The Manufacture of a Sweet Flour from the Sugar Beet and Its Use in Human 
and Animal Nutrition. A. Aulard, Orig. Commun. 8. Internal. Cong. Appl. Chem. 
[Washington and New York] xxv, 191 2, Sects, i.-v, App. pp. 479-483. 

The Nutritional Importance of the Presence in Dietaries of Minute Amounts of 
Certain Accessory Substances. E. A. Cooper, Brit. Med. Jour., 1913, no. 2727, pp. 
722-724. 

The Effect of Sodium Chlorid and Cold Storage upon the Activities of Proteoly- 
tic Enzymes. W. N. Berg, Orig. Commun. 8, Internal. Cong. Appl. Chem. (Wash- 
ington and New York], xix, 191 2, Sect, viii d, pp. 25-27. 

Investigation of Louisiana Rice with Reference to the Etiology of Beri-Beri. 
Wellman, Bass and Eustis, Nru) Orleans Med. and Surg. Jour., Ixv, 1912, no. 3. 

The Origin of Muscular Energy: Thermodynamic or Chemodynamic? A. B. 
Macallum, Proc. Amer. Soc. Biol. Chem., ii, 1912-1913, no. 3, pp. 97-111. 

The Absorption of Protein without Digestion. E. V. Van Alstyne, Arch. 
Internal. Med., xii, 1913, no. 4, pp. 372-394. 

The Cause of the Specific Dynamic Action of Protein. Graham Lusk. Arch. 
Internal. Med., xii, 1913, no. 5, pp. 485-487. 

The Normal Movements of the Colon in Man. A. F. Hertz, Jour. Physiol. 
xlvii, 1913, nos. i and 2, pp. 57-65. 



yS The Journal of Home Economics [February 

On the Production and Utilization of Glycogen in Normal and Diabetic Animals. 
W. H. Cruickshank, Jour. Physiol, xlvii, 1913, nos. i and 2, pp. 1-14. 

Some Observations on Infant Feeding. H. Rulison, Arch. Pediat., xxx, 1913, 
no. 10, pp. 762-768. 

Physiology and Pathology of Uric Acid Metabolism. IM. S. Fine, Post. Grad., 
xxxvii, 1913, no. 11, pp. 1002-1018. 

The Present Status of Rectal and Duodenal Alimentation. V. C. Myers, Post 
Grad., xxxvii, 1913, no. 11, pp. 987-994. 

The History of Dietetics. J. B. Nichols, Pop. Sc. Mo., kxxiii, 19 13, no. 5, pp. 
417-427. 

Casern in Infant Feeding. Henry I. Bowditch, Am. Jour. Dis. Child., vi, 1913, 
no. 6, pp. 394-398. (Composition of feeding mixtures made according to pre- 
scribed formulae.) 

A Study of Metabolism in Severe Diabetes. F. G. Benedict and E. P. Joslin, 
Pub. Carnegie Inst, of Wash., no. iy6. 

On the Variations in the Excretion of Endogenous Uric Acid produced by Changes 
in Diet. G. Graham and E. P. Paulton, Quart. Jour Med., vii, 1913, no. 25, pp. 
14-28. 

The Influence of Variations of Diet upon Gastric Motility in Infants. Maynard 
Ladd, Arch. Pediat., xxx, 1913, no. 10, pp. 740-746. 

The Gastric Movements in Hunger. Editorial, Jour. Am. Med. Assn., Ixi, 1913, 
no. 13, p. 1044. 

Muscular Work: A Metabolic Study with Special Reference to the Efficiency 
of the Human Body as a Machine. F. G. Benedict and E. P. Cathcart, Pub. 
Cartiegie Inst, of Wash., no. 187 (in press). 

Modem Problems in Nutrition. Franz Knoop, Bid. Johns Hopkins Hosp., xxiv, 
1913, pp. 171-175- 

Feedmg Experiments with Rice. Ruth Wheeler, Jour. Exper. Zoo!., xv, 1913, 
pp. 209-223. 

Injuries Produced by Starch. I. A. Abt, Jour. Am. Med. Assn., Ixi, 1913, no. 
14, pp. 1275-1277. 

The Nutrition of the Poor. Jour. Am. Med. Assn., Ixi, 1913, no. 13, pp. 1046- 

1047- 

Studies in Carbohydrates. The Composition and Digestibility of Wheat Bread 
and Allied Foods. Gelatinization of Starches. C. H. La Wall and S. S. Graves, 
Trans. Wagner Free Inst. Sci., Phila., vii, 1913, part 2, pp. 35-45- 

Errors in Dietetics. H. F. Winslow, Brit. Med. Jour., ii, 1913, pp. 667-669. 

A Food Clinic. Jour. Am. Med. Assn., Ixi, 1913, no. 16, p. 1462. 

Carbohydrate Metabolism in its Relation to the Th>Toid Gland. W. Cramer and 
W. A. Krause, Proc. Roy. Soc. Lond. (B), bcxx\i, 1913, pp. 550-560. Cf. Brit. 
Med. Jour., ii, 1913, p. 466. 

The Rate of Elimination of Nitrogen as Influenced by Diet Factors. L. B. Men- 
del and R. C. Lewis, Jour. Biol. Chem., .xvi, 1913, no. i, pp. 19-77. 

Report on a Study of the Diet of the Laboring Classes in the City of Glasgow, 
Carried out during 1911-1912 Under the Auspices of the Corporation of the City. 
Dorothy E. Lindsay. Introduction by D. Noel Paton, M.D., Physiological 
Department, University of Glasgow, 1913, pp. 100. 



1 9 14] Bibliography of Current Liter a lure 79 

Hygiene and Sanitation 

Sanitary Standards for Bakeries. Penn. Dept. Agr., Mo. Bui. Dairy and Food 
Div., xi, 1913, nos. 2 and 3, pp. 28, 29. 

The Shame of Hotel Kitchens. A. Tridon, Penn. Dept. Agr., Mo. But. Dairy 
and Food Div., xi, 1913, nos. 2 and 3, pp. 3-7. 

Sanitary Soda Fountains. Bui. N. Carolina Board of Health, August, 1913. 

New York Milk Rules. Weekly Bid. N. Y. City Dept. of Health, August 30, 
1913- 

Need for Care in Selection of Water Cress and Other Vegetable Foods to Prevent 
Typhoid. Engin. News, \xx, 1913, no. 7, p. 332. 

Abatement of Nuisances. James E. Bauman, Ohio Stale Board of Health Bui., 
iii, 1913, no. 9, pp. 789-799- 

Rural Sanitation... W. H. Dittoe, Ohio Slate Board of Health Bui., iii, 1913, no. 
9, pp. 813-817. 

Domestic Hygiene, Section C; Hygiene of Infancy and Child Study, Section D. 
Report of Congress at Exeter, Jour. Roy. San. Inst., xxxiv, 1913, no. 11, pp. 509- 
559. (Eight papers, including Labor Saving Contrivances; How to Make Les- 
sons on Care and Feeding of Infants Practical; Training Boys in Cooking after 
Leaving School.) 

Some Suggestions Regarding the Care of Milk and Cream in the Home. J. H. 
Frandsen, Nebr. Sla. Press Bui., xlii, 1913, p. 2. 

Air Supply and Ventilation. Series of Articles, Am. Jour. Pub. Health, n. ser., 
iii, 1913, no. It, pp. 1123-1226. 

A Campaign of Prenatal Hygiene in New York. Philip Van Ingen, Arch. Pediat. , 
XXX, 1913, no. II, pp. 838-843. 

Town Dust and Disease. S. B. Walsh, Jour. State Med., xxi, 1913, no. 12, pp. 

745-755- 

Progress of Good Housing. Sherman Craiger, Atner. Rev. of Rev., xlviii, 1913, 
no. s, pp. 577-586. 

Diet Social Service in Dispensary Work. F. H. Klaer, Med. Rec. (N. Y.), Ixxxviii, 
1913, no. 18, pp. 792-795- 

Antimalarial Measures for Farmhouses and Plantations. Henry R. Carter, 
Texas State Board of Health BuL, vii, 1913, no. i, pp. 38-43. 

The Value of Sanitation as Applied to Railway and Other Large Corporations, 
with Special Reference to the Public Welfare. M. C. Thrush, Jour. Am. Med. 
Assn., Ixi, 1913, no. 14, pp. 1286-1288. 

A Study of the Use of Ice and Other Means of Preserving Food in Homes. John 
R. Williams, Jour. Am. Med. Assn., Ixi, 1913, no. 12, pp. 932-935. 

Illumination from the Standpoint of Medical Sociology. Percy W. Cobb. Bui. 
.im. Acad. Med., xiv, 1913, no. 5, pp. 329-341. 

Public Health Aspects of the Candy Industry. S. C. Prescott, Am. Jour. Pub. 
Health, iii, 1913, no. 10, pp. 1046-1055. 

Vegetable Milk. Penn. Dept. Agr., Mo. Bui. Dairy and Food Div., xi, 1913, nos. 
2 and 3, pp. 25-27. 

American Pure Food and Drug Laws. J. Westervelt, Kansas City, 191 2, pp. 
X + 1535- (The statutes of the United States and of the several States of the Union 
on the subject of foods and drugs.) 



8o The Journal of Home Economics [February 

Laws Enforced by Food and Drug Department of the State of South Dakota. 
Vermillion, S. Dak., 1913, pp. 57- (The text of the pure food, drug, paint, and 
oil, and stock food laws, together with those regulating the inspection of hotels 
and public buildings.) 

Education and Social Work 

Helping America to Keep House: How the Farmer and the Housekeeper Can 
Do It. M. Irv-in MacDonald, The Craftsman, xxv, 1913, no. 3, pp. 253-261 and 

280-284. 

Vocations for School Girls. Mary A. Laselle, Popular Educator, xxxi, 1913, no. 
3, pp. 127-130. 

The Education of the Country Girl. Breeder's Gaz., Ixiv, 1913, no. 9, p. 362. 

Standardizing School Housekeeping. Helen C. Putnam, Child Welfare Mag., 
viii, 1913-1914, no. 2, pp. 57-60. 

A Brief Course in Domestic Science. Arranged by Catharine A. Mulligan for 
State Institutes of Teimessee. J. W. Brister, State Supt. of Public Instruction, 
Nashville, 1913, pp. 54- 

Methods of Teaching Domestic Science and Art in the High School. Edna M. 
Randall, Univ. of Ga. High School Quart., ii, 1913, no. i, pp. 23-27. 

Committee on school lunches of the Home and School League. H. H. Boimell. 
et al., Com. School Lunches Home and School League Ann. Rpt., 2, 1911-1912, pp, 
31, figs. 2. (A progress report of the Philadelphia school lunch project.) 

Miscellaneous 

The Mimidpal Market in Mexico. Cooking Club Mag., xv, 1913, no. 9, pp. 

76, 77- 

Electricitj' on the Farm. D. C. Shafer, Breeder's Gaz., Lxiv, 1913, no. 10, pp. 393, 
394, fig. I. (The use of electricity on the farm and in the farm home is discussed 
and some figmres for cost are given. 

Magney (Cantala) and Sisal in the Philippines. M. M. Saleeby, Philippine 
Agr. Rev., vi, 1913, no. 4, pp. 183-191. 

The Renovation of the Abacd (Manila Hemp) Industry. M. M. Saleeby, Phil- 
ippine Agr. Rev., vi, 1913, no. 4, pp. 167-182. 

Basketry for the Grade Teacher. Mary B. Grubb, Popular Educator, xxxi, 
1913, no. 3, pp. 138-140. 

The Cost of Living in Latin America. Outlook, cv, 1913, no. 14, p. 733 . 

Reducing the Cost of Food Distribution. Symposium, Ann. Amer. Acad. Polit. 
Soc. Sci., 1, 1913, no. 139. 

Study of Problems of Domestic Economy as a Factor in Salesmanship. Mrs. M. 
A. Cloudesley Brereton, Jour. Gas Light and Water Supply, cxxiv, 1913, no. 2633, 
pp. 299-307. 

Stories About the Other Child. Supplement to Child Labor Bui., ii, no. 3, 
December, 1913. (Nat. Child Labor Committee, 105 E. 22d St., New York.) 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 

Any book or periodical mentioned in this department may be obtained through 
the Journal of Home Economics at the price listed. 

Nutrition and Diet. By Emma Conley New Y(.rk. American Book Com- 
pany. $0.60. By mail of the Journal, $0.65. 

This text-book for secondary schools is designed to replace the time-consuming 
method of note-taking by the pupils. The keynote of the book may be expressed 
in the words of the author: "The important point is to learn how to plan meals 
easily, quickly, and accurately according to any standard." Part I discusses the 
principles of nutrition, and the application of these principles to the practical plan- 
ning and serving of meals. Actual menus are given for six people and the calories 
of protein, fat, and carbohydrate per day are worked out with the aid of simple 
tables which obviate the necessity of long and irksome calculations. The cost of 
food and labor are also considered in the planning of the menus. 

Part II deals with a detailed study of our ordinary foods with reference to struc- 
ture, composition, nutritive value, and processes of manufacture. Technical terms 
and classifications are included in the text but the main emphasis is laid on the well 
established facts of nutrition and their relation to health and efficiency. 

It is not easy to simplify the teachings of science without occasionally making 
statements that are not wholly clear to one unfamiliar with the details of labora- 
tory work. The following statement is a case in point. "The body needs a cer- 
tain amount of food daily to supply it with energy needed to maintain normal 
bodily temperature and for work and muscular activity." This does not cover the 
case. If body temperature is mentioned something more should be said. Body 
temperature is a balance between heat produced by work — internal and external 
■ — and heat eliminated. It is only when heat is very rapidly lost that energy is 
changed to heat to maintain normal bodily temperature. 

The Chemical Composition of Florida Oranges. By A. M. Henry, Fla. Quart. 
Bui., Dept. Agr., 23, 1913, no. 2, pt. 2, pp. 53, pis. 2. 

This publication reports the results of a chemical examination of fruit, in various 
stages of ripeness, obtained from the principal orange growing districts of the state. 

Full analj'tical data are given together with methods of analysis. It was found 
that fruit which contained not over 1.25 per cent of acid was always edible and de- 
sirable, and as a result of this investigation the following standard for oranges was 
recommended: "Orange, sweet orange, is the ripe, mature fruit of Citrus aurantium, 
the juice of which contains not more than 1.25 per cent by weight of total acid, 
determined as crystallized citric acid." 

Sugar and Acid in Oranges and Grapefruit. By S. E. Collison, Fla. Sta. Bui. 

115, 1913, PP- 23- 

Results are reported of analyses of over 500 lots of oranges and grapefruit. Ac- 
cording to the author, the results show that there is a gradual increase of total 
sugar and a gradual decrease of acidity as the oranges mature. Apparently all 

81 



82 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

the acid of the fruit is formed earlj- in the season, while sugar continues to be formed 
until maturity. In oranges both sucrose and reducing sugars increase at about the 
same rate, with the former averaging a little higher than the latter 

"For grapefruit the increase of sugar and decrease of acid is apparent, but not 
nearly in so marked a degree as in the orange. After grapefruit reach maturity 
there is a noticeable increase in reducing sugar, with a corresponding decrease in 
sucrose, pointing to a breaking down of sucrose into dextrose and fructose. 

"Consideration of all the data presented establishes the fact that the demarkation 
between fruit classified as sour and that classified as sweet lies near the ratio of one 
of acid (anhydrous) to seven of sugar, in the grade here called tart. In a similar 
way the demarkation between fruit classified as ver>' sour and that classified as sour 
lies near the ratio of one of acid (anhydrous) to four of sugar." 

Some Results Obtained in Studying Ripening Bananas with the Respira- 
tion Calorimeter. By C. F. Langworthy and R. D. Milner, U. S. Dept. Agr. 
Yearbook 191 2, pp. 293-308. 

Data regarding the changes which take place in ripening bananas are summarized 
and the resxilts of an experimental study of the ripening of this fruit made with a 
respiration calorimeter of special construction briefly reported. 

The results which have been obtained show that the ripening changes progress 
regularly to a maximimi and then decline; that at its greatest intensity the heat 
production is equivalent to about one-half calorie per hour per kilogram of 
bananas. "The heat liberated is a measure of the activity of one or more of the ripen- 
ing processes. Analysis has shown that during ripening the banana starch is trans- 
formed into cane sugar and the cane sugar into invert sugar, and that there are im- 
portant changes in the character of the tannin compoimds, and that other changes 
occur, brought about by the production of aroma and flavor bodies, and perhaps in 
other ways. It has also been found that in addition to the transformation of carbo- 
hj'drates there is an actual loss of this food constituent during ripening. From the 
data for oxj-gen consumption, carbon dioxid, and heat output it appears that the 
heat liberated by the ripening bananas is largely due to the destruction of carbo- 
hydrate." 

The results which are reported and discussed represent only part of the experi- 
mental data which have been accumulated. "No attempt is made at this time to 
draw deductions regarding the practical applications which can be made, as this 
may be done more properly when experiments now under way are completed." 

Sugar and Its Value as Food. By Mary H. Abel, U. S. Dept. Agr., Farmers' 
Bui. 535, pp. 32. 

This bulletin is an extension and revision of an earlier Farmers' Bulletin (No. 93) 
of similar title. 

The chemical composition and characteristics of sugars of different kinds, com- 
mercial glucose, and other similar products made from starch, the source and qual- 
ity of sugars, the food value of sugar, table sirups, molasses, and sugar cane, and 
similar questions are discussed, as well as the practical use of sugar in the ordmary 
dietary and the dietary of children. 



i 



19 1 4] Books and Literature 83 

The Price of Meat in Paris. (Le Prix de la Viande 4 Paris). By Paul Vincey. 
Paris. 1912, pp. 151, pis. 6, figs. 57. Privately printed. Fr. 7.50, 

This pamphlet is among the recent contributions to the study of the cost of 
living in France. The statistics which it gives are based on the official market 
reports of the Police and of the Prefecture of the Seine and include wholesale and 
retail figures for beef, mutton and pork from 1840-1911, and for veal and horse 
meat from 1866-7 to 191 1. 

The three special points which the author tries to explain from a study of these 
prices are: (i) Variations in the wholesale and retail prices of meat; (2) the increase 
of price caused by the retail sale of meat in small city shops; and (3) the distribu- 
tion of the proceeds of the sale of meats in Paris among producers and middlemen. 

He concludes that, "on the average, of every franc spent by the consumer, 76 
centimes go to the original producer, 2 centimes to the railways, i centime to the 
cattle commissioners, 5 centimes to the city of Paris for 'octroi' duties, slaughter- 
house and market fees, etc., 3 centimes to the wholesale dealers, and 13 centimes to 
the retail dealers." 

One of the interesting features of the book is the plates given in the appendix 
which show the methods of cutting meat in vogue in the Paris markets in 1851 and 
today and the names of the different cuts. The ordinary French-English diction- 
ary throws little or no light on the exact meaning of such terms, and sketches of 
this kind are, therefore, of unusual help to anyone interested in French meats and 
meat dishes. 

Fifty Years in a Maryland Kitchen. By Mrs. B. C. Howard. Baltunore; 
Norman Remington Co. 1913, 5th edition, pp. xxi -[- 419. $1.50. By mail of 
the Journal, $1.62. 

This new edition of a cookbook well known to an earlier generation and long out 
of print was made, the publisher states, to meet a demand for it. It was originally 
published to aid certain benevolent undertakings and contained recipes which, 
with few exceptions, had been tested in the author's own family, and which were 
selected from a collection made during a period of more than fifty years. 

The present edition has many additional recipes "long in use in Maryland, Vir- 
ginia, and other parts of the South." The book includes a long list of dishes, many 
t>pical of times when eggs, butter and cream were lavishly used and, as a whole, 
gives a good selection of the old-t"me dishes which we associate with southern 
hospitality. 

The numerous recipes for com meal, for hominy and rice, for pickles and pre- 
serves (some unusual like May apple preserve, "far prettier than limes and almost 
as good," Haw jelly, and Fox grape jam) afford interesting examples of the ways 
employed to secure variety in the diet from home grown materials or the food sup- 
plies generally available in times when cold storage and improved transportation 
did not bring all countries and seasons to our doors. 

A Book of House Plans. By W. J. Butterfield and H. W. Tuttle, Architects, 
New York: McBride, Nast and Company. $2. By mail of the Journal, $2.20. 

This book will be welcomed by those who have tried often without success to 
find really good designs for inexpensive houses. The statement, "Homes of char- 



§4 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

acter, costing $3,000 to $6,000" seems fully justified in the twenty-one different 
types of houses presented. In each case the floor plans and elevation are shown 
so that the builder can form a good mental picture both of the exterior and interior. 
Moreover the designs cover a wider range of t>T)es than are usually given in small 
house plans. Various types of English and Dutch houses are shown, as well as 
Colonial, and even an Italian villa and the Spanish Mission house. "The examples 
accurately portray the spirit and architectural characteristics of their respective 

styles." 

Other good features of the book are the explanations concerning the essentials 
of good architecture; the chapter on cost with actual figures for different parts of 
the countrj'; the relation ci the landscape work to the house and the necessity for 
considering this in niaking a harmonious effect. The authors seem to have accom- 
plished their aim which is stated as follows: "The aim of the authors has been to 
emphasize the really essential features and eliminate all that might be considered 
superfluous or not consistent in a house of moderate cost Simplicity of plan and 
exterior treatment means economy but not necessarily ugliness. The success 
of an architectural design, in a building of any description depends principally upon 
its proportion, scale and fenestration, and no amount of elaboration can atone for a 
poorly proportioned building." 

A Book of Distinctive Interiors. Edited by William A. VoUmer. New York: 

McBriJe, Nast and Company. $1. By mail of the Journal, $1.14. 

This is a second edition of the books written to help the woman to decorate and 
furnish her home in good taste. The table of contents shows that the essential 
rooms of the home, viz., the living room, the dining room, the bed room, bath room, 
nursery and kitchen, have been considered as well as t3^es of halls and stairways. 

The author says there are probably two or three dozen ways that the living room 
can be planned and decorated and at the same time be comfortable and attractive. 
He then proceeds to give illustrations of a number of these ways which do have dis- 
tinctive features, sometimes in the treatment of the fireplace, the ceiling or side 
walls, or in the furniture combinations. The colonial type prevails though there 
are examples of the English and Dutch builders. It seems unfortunate that the 
following statement should have been left without a word of warning as to the kind 
of red suitable for north rooms: "As a general color rule for decoration, red should 
be used for north rooms." Golden yellow is often much more effective and gives 
the impression of a sunlight quite impossible to the shade of red generally used. 
Some criticism may be given to the illustrations of both bed rooms and living 
rooms because of too much furniture for a place of rest and too little space in which 
to live. The dining rooms shown are varied, simple and attractive and there are 
very good suggestions in the illustrations of the kitchens and of that difficult prob- 
lem, the stairs. 

On the whole the book has much to commend it. 

Opportunities in the Field of Nursing. New York: Nursing and Health Branch 
of the Alumnae Association of Teachers' College, Columbia University. Pp. 44. 
$0.10. 
This pamphlet aims to provide the public, and particularly young women just 

leaving school or college, with definite information about the modem profession of 

nursing. 



1914] Books and Literature 8$ 

A brief historical note traces the development of nursing to its present status, 
shows the general scope of the work today, and devotes a brief descriptive para- 
graph to each of the special branches of nursing. These are seen to be many and 
varied, and by the time we have followed the modern nurse into hospitals, sanataria, 
tenement houses, public schools, health departments, shops and factories, it is im- 
possible not to recognize the importance of her services for public welfare; and it is 
easy to see that a work so filled with human interest, ministering in so vital a way 
to human necessities, and touching life at so many points, must be very satisfying 
to those who perform it. 

The necessity for careful preparation is evident, and is strongly urged; and valu- 
able information is given concerning training schools for nurses and their standards 
of work. Subjects of study, character of instruction, facilities for training, and con- 
ditions of living are discussed. Young women in choosing their work should study 
carefully this authoritative material concerning one of the rapidly growing and more 
important modem professions. 

School Hygiene. By Fletcher B.Dresslar. New York: The Macmillan Company. 
1913, pp. xi + 369, figs. 51. $1.25. By mail of the Journal, $1.37. 

This handbook, which is one of the Brief Course Series in Education, discusses 
hygiene in its relation to schools and pupils in language perfectly intelligible to the 
"busy teachers" for whom it is intended, or even for the non-pedagogic reader. 

Each of the 26 chapters discusses a different phase of the subject, but the topics 
presented fall into two general groups: Those dealing \\ath the physical environment 
of the school child, and those dealing with the "proper adjustment of the subjects 
of the curriculum to the mental powers and needs of the children." 

In the first group, which occupies the greater part of the book, we find discussions 
of the location and construction of buildings and of their lighting, ventilating, heat- 
ing, sanitary equipment, and furniture. In the second group, emphasis is laid on 
such points as the need of medical inspection, the care of vision, hearing, and teeth 
of pupils, the treatment of stuttering, the significance of fatigue, and the care of 
exceptional children. The proper methods of cleaning the school rooms and their 
contents, and the qualifications and duties of the school janitor are also discussed. 

In most instances, a practical suggestion is presented with the theoretical con- 
sideration. It may seem a coimsel of perfection to ask any but very exceptional 
schools to come up to the standard suggested for all the points mentioned. Never- 
theless, the book encourages the beb'ef that a decided improvement is not too much 
to hope for, even in country schools. 

Training the Boy. By William .\ McKeever. New York: The MacmiUan 
Company. 1913, pp. xviii + 368. $1.50. By mail of the Journal, S1.62. 

This book should be in the hands of every person who has anything to do with 
boys — parents, teachers, juvenile court ofiicers, and all other social workers. "The 
motto of this book may be expressed in these words: Trahi the 'd'hole boy and not 
merely a part of him. . . . it has been my purpose to attempt to sketch a practical 
plan for rounding out the whole boy^ and to place the emphasis upon all rather than 
upon some of the forces necessary for such complete training." These statements 
from the author's preface express his aims. Although this claim is very preten- 



36 The Jaurnal of Home Economies [February 

tious for a single book, twenty-four sane, well organized chapters go far in convinc- 
ing one that the author has succeeded in offering plans for this complete training. 

The book is divided into five parts, dealing respectively with Industrial Train- 
ing, Social Training. Habit Training, Vocational Training, and Service Training. 
Under Industrial Training, the author portrays the necessity and means of develop- 
ing an intelligent and appreciative knowledge of, and feeling for, physical activity 
and work by participation as means of wholesome growth, physical and mental. 
He discusses possibilities in the pre-school period, vacation emplo^Tnent, and ajust- 
ments during the school period for both in-school and out-of-school acti\'ities. Em- 
ployment for wages with its methods, vadues and dangers is carefully considered. 
Play, recreation, and social development through other cooperative social experiences 
receive an unusually discriminating and common sense treatment in part two. In 
this difficult phase of boy training, as in that of habit formation where problems of 
good habits, bad habits, and the sex question are discussed, the author shows his 
keen appreciation of boy psychology and pedagogy. Any one having much to do 
with boys wiU welcome the practical suggestions found here. The chapters on 
vocational training and vocational guidance are equally fundamental and sugges- 
tive. Ser\'ice training includes a discussion of preparation for citizenship, social 
service, home life, marriage and parenthood, and for the religious life. Here again 
the author draws the issue sharply, and deals directly and forcefully with vital 
problems. 

The treatment throughout is wholesome and helpful. The author knows the 
boy — his i imitations, temptations, and impulses for wrong doing, as well as his am- 
bitions, possibilities, and aspirations. He knows how to direct these for the well- 
being of the whole boy. 

Thirty-five well chosen illustrations add much to the attractiveness and force- 
fulness of the book. Each chapter is followed by a brief and carefully selected 
bibliography. 

Historical Costtimes. Illus. London News [Amer. Ed.], 53, 1913, no. 1387, 
pp. 842, 843, figs. 8. 

A brief note with reproductions of photographs, regarding the Talbot Hughes 
collection of costimies recently purchased as a gift for the Victoria and Albert 
Museum. 

The collection includes over two thousand pieces of "wonderful fabric and design 
forming almost one hundred and fifty costumes complete from the Tudor period 
down to the present time. It shows the development of fashions and designs, fabrics 
and embroideries of the finest and best sorts. 

Silk Manufacturing and Its Problems. By James Chittick. New York: 
James Chittick. 1913, pp. 432 + 130. $2.80. By mail of the Journal, $3. 

This book, by a well known authority, gives detailed and comprehensive in- 
formation on the subject of silk manufacturing, beginning with the choice of mill 
location, and making clear the laws which govern the operation of a large business. 
The purchase, classification, and characteristics of raw materials are taken up in 
detail, and all processes of manufacture, expense of production, and problems which 
are likely to arise, are gone into thoroughly. 



19 14] Books and Literature 87 

It embraces, in short, a mass of accurate inside information, relating to silk manu- 
facturing and distributing, never before presented in print, and most of it of a kind 
most jealously guarded and very difTicult to obtain. 

Although this is distinctly a book for mill men, it contains much valuable in- 
formation for teachers of textiles, and a number of points are given which one does 
not frequently run across. Especially valuable arc the paragraphs on the different 
operations of dyeing. 

Syllabus of Home Economics. Baltimore: American Home Economics Associ' 
ation. 1913, pp. 69. Paper, $0.50; Cloth, $1. 

In this syllabus, which was prepared for the American Home Economics Associ- 
ation, by its committee on nomenclature, the attempt has been made to present 
the possible content of Home Economics, in schematic form, grouped under the main 
divisions, food, clothing, shelter, and household and institution management. The 
first three are subdivided primarily into selection, preparation and use, and the last 
into material basis, social contracts, activities and functions, and aims and results. 
These topics are further subdivided to suit the individual cases. 

In the introduction the use of the syllabus as an aid to the teacher in selecting the 
content of courses of instruction for different institutions and for different grades 
is discussed. 

In preparing this report special stress has been laid on physics, chemistry, and 
biology, economics, sociology, and other sciences which form the background of the 
complex called Home Economics, or are closely related to it. 

As a whole, the syllabus makes it clear that Home Economics is a subject worthy 
of serious study. "Rightly combined with language, literature, and other long- 
established subjects, Home Economics can and does provide a well rounded college 
course of full cultural value and does not sacrifice anything essential to a broad 
education. Those who have given the subject most attention believe that, in ad- 
dition, it has a special value in preparing directly for life and its problems." 

The report appears as publication No. i for the Ellen H. Richards Memorial 
Fimd. 

Webster's International Dictionary. Boston: G. and C. Merriam Company. 
1913, pp. 2700. nius. Regular edition, $12; India-paper, $15. 

This is a new encyclopedia-dictionary having as a special feature the divided 
page to provide for abbreviated treatment of unimportant and seldom-used words. 
Among its new definitions are those of nutrition and other Home Economics 
terms. 

Pop Corn for the Home. By C. P. Hartley, Physiologist in Charge of Crop 
Investigations, and J. G. Willier Scientific Assistant, Ofl&ce of Corn In- 
vestigations, Bureau of Plant Industry, pp. 13, figs. 9. U. S. Dept. Agr. 
Farmers' Bulletin 553. Some recipes are given. 

List of References on Home Economics, and List of References on Rural 
Life and Culture. Department of the Interior, Bureau of Education, 
Washington, D. C, June, 1913. 



BOOKS RECEIVED 

Nutritional Physiology. By Percy Goldthwait Stiles. Philadelphia: W. B. 

Saunders Company. Pp. 271. $1.25. By mail of the Journal, $1.35 
Preventive Medicine and Hygiene. By Milton J. Rosenau, M.D. New York: 

D. Appleton and Company. Pp. 1074. $6. 
The Care and Feeding of Children. By L. Emmett Holt, M.D. New York: 

D. Appleton and Company. Sixth edition. $0.75. By mail of the Journal, 

$0.82. 
The Baby. By Daniel Rollins, M.D. Boston : Whitcomb and Barrows. $1. By 

mail of the Journal, $1.08. 
How I Kept My Baby Well. By Anna G. Moyes. Baltimore: Warwick and 

York. Pp. 193. $1.25. By mail of the Journal, $1.35 
Around-the-World Cook Book. By Mary Louise Barroll. New York: The 

Century Company. Pp.360. $1.50. By mail of the Journal, $1.62. 
International Cook Book. By Alex. Filippini. New York: Doubleday Page 

and Company. Pp. 1059. $1. By mail ot the Journal, $1.20. 
The Complete Housekeeper. By Emily Holt. New York: Doubleday Page 

and Company. Pp. 381. $1. By mail of the Journal, $1.17. 
The One-Maid Book of Cookery. By A. E. Congreve. New York: E. P. Dut- 

ton and Company. Pp 217. $1. By mail of the Journal, $1.08. 
Recipes and Menus for Fifty. As used in the School of Domestic Science of the 

Boston Y. W. C. A. By Frances Lowe Smith. Boston : Whitcomb and Barrows. 

$1.50. By mail of the Journal, $1.62. 
Paper Bag Cookery. By Nicholas Soyer. New York: Sturgis and Walton. 

$0.60. By mail of the Journal, $0.65 
From Kitchen to Garret. By Virginia Terhune Van de Water. New York: 

Sturgis and Walton. $0.75. By mail of the Journal, $0.84. 
Text Book on Domestic Art. By Mrs. Ingalls. San Francisco: H. S. Crocker 

Company. Pp. 250. $1.50. By mail of the Journal, $1.65. 
Bungalows. By Henry H. Savior. New York: McBride, Nast and Company. 

Si. 50. By mail of the Journal, $1.70. 
The Practical Garden Book. By Liberty Hyde Bailey. New York: Macmillan 

and Company. S0.50. By mail of the Journal, $0.55 
The Delinquent Child and the Home. By Sophonisba Breckenridge and Edith 

Abbott. New York: Chartities Publication Committee. Pp. 360. $2. 
Neighborhood Entertainments. By Renee B. Stern. New York: Sturgis and 

Walton. So. 75. By mail of the Journal. $0.84. 
Vocations for Girls. By Mary A. Laselle and Katherine Wiley. New York: 

Houghton, MifBin Company. $0.85. By mail of the Journal, $0.90. 
Webster's International Dictionary. Boston: G. and C. Merriam Company. 

Regular edition, §12; India-paper, $15. 

88 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 

The Seattle Home Economics Association will hold its meetings on the second 
Monday of each month. The program for the whole year was made out in advance 
and will include addresses on the following subjects: Market 
Seattle Home Regulations and their Enforcement, Vocational Guidance, Vio- 
Economlcs lations of the State Food Laws, The Educational Value of Home 

Association Economics, and the Work of the Industrial Centers. 

They report a large membership, and progressive work along 
the lines of investigation and regulation of markets and food supply. 

The November meeting of the Texas Home Economics Association was held in 
Dallas, Texas, in connection with the meetmg of the State Teachers' Association. 
The committee, appointed last November, reported on the Constitution and By- 
Laws. New plans were made for the coming year and a large 
Texas Home membership enrolled. 

Economics The work of the year will be ahnost entirely directed toward 

Association the improvement of the school courses throughout the state, 

raising the standard of the work, and unifying it. A committee 
was appointed to issue a syllabus, which will be published by the University of 
Texas. 

The branch is looking forward to an active year in which much will be accom- 
plished for the cause of Home Economics. 

The regular meeting of the New England Home Economics Association was 
held at 6 Marlboro St., Boston, on December 3, Ellen H. Richards day. 

After brief remarks, appropriate for the day, the program 
New England took the form of a discussion on the subject: The Cash Value of 
Home Econom- Woman's Labor in the Home, (a) Attitude of mind toward house- 
ics Association work, (b) What manual work should a woman do in the home? 
Subjects such as When is it best to send out your laundry? were 
then discussed as suggested by the audience. 

The Current Topics Committee had charge of the December meeting of the 
Philadelphia Home Economics Association. Miss Hanna Hill of Drexel Insti- 
tute gave a very helpful list of articles to be found in the recent 
Philadelphia magazines. 

Home Econom- The Pure Food Committee in charge of the January meeting 
ics Association arranged for addresses by Mr. Charles H. La Wall, State Chemist 
of the Dairy and Food, and Mr. A. J. Hankell, Chief of the 
Division of Food Inspection. 

89 



QO The Journal of Home Economics [February 

The Missouri Association of Household Arts and Sciences met November 6 and 
7 at St. Louis in connection \vith the State Teachers' Association. An idea of the 
program may be gained from the following topics: Ideals in Dress, 
Missouri Asso- Lessons in Laundry Work, Possibilities for Vocational Train- 
ciation of ing along the Line of Domestic Science and Art, and Extent to 

Household Arts which Universities have Accepted Home Economics Credits for 
and Sciences Entrance. 

A banquet which was held on Friday evening was most success- 
ful. About sixty attended. 

At the business meeting the following officers were elected for next year: Presi- 
dent, Miss Essie Margaret Heyle, Kansas City, Mo.; Vice-President, Miss Jennie 
Gihnore, St. Louis, Mo.; Se<-retar>', Miss Jensen, St. Joseph. Mo.; Treasurer, Miss 
Mary Chapin, Cape Girardeau, Mo. 

Plans were worked out by which the state is to be districted for the formation 
of local sections. 

At the Fourth Annual Meeting of the .American Association for Study and Pre^ 
vention of Infant Mortality, held in Washington, D. C, November 14 to 17, the 
section on Public School Education for Preventing Infant Mor- 
Infant Mortal- tality was of special interest to Home Economics workers. Dr. 
ity Conference Helen Putnam, Chairman of this session said: "Society in self 
preservation must teach women the right care of babies. 
Mothers are entitled at our hands to the time and the place to care for their 
children. Babies have the right to the care of intelligent mothers instead of being 
left to the care of elementary school children." 

Dr. Putnam scored the "Little Mothers" movement. She said that it suggests 
cheating mothers and babies of each other, belittles ideals of motherhood, and im- 
poses on little daughters duties beyond their mentality and physical ability. 

Continuing the discussion, she said: "Only a small fraction of elementary school 
children enter high school. We must have continuation schools for our nearly twenty 
million young men and women between fifteen and twenty-four years of age in 
these strategic years when they are beginning to think about and to undertake 
home making. Here they can combine wage earning with education in their awak- 
ening interests and unmediate needs, both to increase their economic efficiency and 
their knowledge of duties that cannot be fitly given in children's elementar>' schools. 

"It is suicidal for the nation to cease educational direction of its youth before 
adolescence, as we have done for nine-tenths of ours. This is one reason for our in- 
difference to the well-being of infants, for our lack of birth registration, and for our 
infant mortality rate whose most favorable estimate is one-third down the list of 
ci\'ilized nations that we distance by billions in wealth." 

Others who took part in this session included Prof. Abbey L. Marlatt, Professor 
of Home Economics, University of Wisconsin; Mrs. Henrietta W. Calvin, Dean of 
the School of Domestic Science and Art, Oregon Agricultural CoUege, CorvaUis, 
Oregon; Miss Louise C. Lippitt; Dr. A. C. True of the Department of Agriculture; 
Miss Caroline Hunt; and Miss Emma Suter Jacobs, Director of Domestic Science 
of the Public Schools of Washington. Miss Jacobs outlined a course for continu- 
ation (vocational) schools of home making; for training mothers' helpers; for agents 
of the Board of Health, including the visiting nurses, sanitary inspectors, and visit- 



1914] News from the Field 91 

ing housekeepers; and for future and present parenthood. Miss Marlatt gave an 
interesting summary, based on reports and correspondence with leading educators 
in this country and abroad, on the need of vocational training in schools of home 
making for girls of sixteen years and older. 

Summing up the work of the Section on Public School Education for Preventing 
Infant Mortality, Dr. Putnam said: "During the last two years we have petitioned 
each State Board of Education to secure the appointment of a Commission on Con- 
tinuation Schools of Home Making, each to study conditions and needs in its state 
and report effective plans for meeting them through such continuation schools and 
classes. We have sent reports and reprints to several thousand superintendents 
and other educators; and have urged the matter in several of our educational jour- 
nals with largest circulation and influence. It is reasonable to believe that this edu- 
cational effort has had some influence in determining the fact that, whereas four 
years ago almost exclusive emphasis was laid on the economic need for continuation 
(vocational) schools, at present the states, cities and organizations engaged in plan- 
ning courses for either sex almost invariably include health and its related interests 
— hygiene and sanitation concerned with the vocation and with the family." 

The dominant note through all of the discussion at all of the sessions was the 
appeal for the specialized training necessary for effective work in the fight against 
infant mortality. The note was first struck in the session on Nursing and Social 
Work when the discussion culminated in a resolution urging the trainmg schools 
for nurses to include practical training for baby welfare work in their courses. It 
was sounded in the session on Pediatrics in the frank recognition of the fact that 
few of the medical schools give adequate attention to pediatrics in their required 
courses. It was heard again in the sessions on Obstetrics in the appeal for bet- 
ter training in obstetrics in the medical schools, and again in the session on Eugen- 
ics and Continuation Schools in the emphasis laid on the necessity for training for 
parenthood. 

The meeting was held under the presidency of Dr. L. Emmett Holt of New York. 
The president for the current year is Dr. J. Whitridge Williams, Professor of 
Obstetrics, and Dean of the Johns Hopkins Medical School, Baltimore, Md. 

England, Holland, and Switzerland were among the foreign governments that 
showed progress in accident prevention and sanitation at the First International 
Exposition of Safety and Sanitation held in New York City, 
First Interna- December 11 to 20. 

tional Exposi- The British Home Office and Board of Trade demonstrated 
tion of Safety how English factories and workshops are being made healthier 
and Sanitation and safer. 

Switzerland gave full details of the Swiss method of stamping 
out white slavery. The exhibit from Switzerland also covered every form of in- 
dustrial activity of that country including the famous labor colonies, accident pre- 
vention, workmen's insurance, first aid to the injured, war hospitals, the work of 
the Swiss Red Cross, home industries and school hygiene. 

The Holland government sent to the Exposition a model wood-working factory, 
showing how the workmen are protected against the dangerous machinery and 
fatal dusts; also a model Holland laundry with guarded machinery. 



g2 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

The various problems of the day such as safety for the worker and what it means 
to his family, the relationship between employer and employees, welfare, benefit 
and compensation work, together with all forms of sanitation and hygiene for im- 
proving factor>', workshop and living conditions of workers and their families were 
presented and discussed by eminent authorities and leaders in this work. In terms 
of the subjects of addresses, some of the problems presented and discussed were as 
follows: Industrial Accidents, Safer Shops, Human Values, Accident Prevention, 
Care of the Injured, Industrial Hygiene, Sanitary Welfare of Workers, Proper 
Food for Workers, Occupational Diseases, Factory Lighting and Ventilation, and 
What Accident Prevention Means to the Worker's Family. 

The International Congress of Farm Women is auxiliary to the International 
Dry-Farming Congiess, whose work for the spread of better farm methods has 
been felt in every nation of the world within the last few years. 
The Dry-Farm- The eighth aimual session of the International Dry-Farming 
ing Congress Congress was held in Tulsa, Oklahoma, October 27-31, 1913, at 
the same time as that of the International Congress of Farm 
Women. Official delegates attended from twenty states, from Canada and twenty- 
two foreign countries. 

At this meeting the Congress ratified the afi&liation with the National Council 
of Farm Women. 

One building was devoted to a complete Exposition of farm home products, 
which included canned fruits, vegetables, meats, pickles, butter, bread, etc. There 
were a number of individual and collective exhibits from counties and districts, 
from farm women's clubs, schools, etc., and a special department for boys' and 
girls' classes. 

A valuable feature was an exhibit for the farm home, of time and labor saving 
devices which were displayed in a "model farm kitchen." Nothing was allowed 
that is not practical and helpful. 

The Department of Agriculture was one of the exhibitors, and paid especial at- 
tention to women's interests. For instance, the Bureau of Chemistry showed ma- 
terial illustrating the manufacture of gelatin and a number of other food products, 
data regarding the composition of infant and invalid foods, and material illustrating 
food adulteration practices. The boys' corn club work and the girls' canning 
work, of the Bureau of Plant Industry, were illustrated by a large series of fine 
photographs. Many of the Bureaus of the Department of Agriculture have 
issued bulletins which are of interest to the housewife, and this material was 
brought together and arranged under appropriate headings. Included in this, 
were the bulletins issued in connection with the Nutrition Investigations, and 
the food and diet charts. A special exhibit was made by the Nutrition Inves- 
tigations illustrating the composition and nutritive value of cowpeas and Kafir 
com in comparison with Indian com. Miss Caroline L. Hunt, of the Depart- 
ment of Agriculture, was present to explain this exhibit and to show house- 
keepers good methods of using Kafir corn and cowpeas in the diet. 

The program included phj-sical and mental betterment, social and religious life, 
the care of children, their food, clothing and education, home sanitation, coopera- 
tion between producer and consumer, and other similar subjects, together with 
vocational occupations for farm women, including dairying, poultrj' culture, etc. 



19 1 4] News from the Field 93 

Demonstrations in all branches of the work were carried on each day, including 
the actual cooking and serving of meals in a model farm kitchen. 

The speakers at this Congress were notable men and women and fully two-thirds 
jf them were farm women who have actually done the things which they described 
or discussed. 

The .\merican .Association of Farmers' Institute Workers met in Washington, 
D. C, November 10 to 12. Progress is indicated by the names of some of the com- 
mittees: Cooperation with other Educational Agencies, Mov- 
Farmers Insti- able Schools of .\griculture. Boys' and Girls' Institutes, Women's 
tute Workers Institutes. 

In five sessions, one of which was a women's session, they dis- 
cussed the farmers' problems under such headings as these: The Farm Laborer, 
The Tenant Farmer, The Recent Immigrant, The Rural School Teacher, The 
Country Pastor, and State Funds for Women's Institutes. 

The National Conservation Exposition held at Knoxville, Tennessee, during 

September and October taught by its general plan and its minute detail, the con- 

ser\'ation of all our national resources. It was in every sense an 

National Con- educational exhibit, totally lacking in side shows and booths for 

servation Expo- sellers of oriental wares. 

sition \i the entrance, the Woman's Building displayed woman's 

work in the home and the home labor saving devices. In the Arts 
and Crafts division work was shown from Pratt Institute, and such colleges as Sophie 
Newcomb. One wing of the building was furnished in a suite to show good taste 
and economy in housefumishing together with the labor saving devices to con- 
serve woman's strength and time. The price of the furnishing of each room was 
plainly displayed. Instead of having a heterogeneous mixture of jellies, pickles, and 
cakes sent in for prizes, each week one type of food was judged, so that the pantry 
shelves in this model suite were always full of attractive well cooked food. 

Since so many of the primitive industries are still kept alive in Tennessee it is 
appropriate that the loom and wheel should have had a place beside the more mod- 
em exhibits. Here a real mountain woman explained to the ignorant city crowd 
the meaning and use of bobbin and flyer, of harness and treadle. When two uni- 
versity students showed great interest in, and ignorance of, the loom the mountain 
woman remarked, "WeU, I ain't old as any one o' you, and I know all about this 
'ere loom, but then 'taint everybody has the same advantages." 

The University of Tennessee showed among other things a weU equipped labora- 
tor>' for Home Economics teaching, together with work done by the students in 
dietetics, in house plarming, in textiles and clothing. 

The health exhibit in the Liberal Arts Building was one of the best of its kind 
ever gotten together. 

Industrial hygiene as carried out by the National Cash Register Company at the 
cost of six cents per person per day was shown in moving pictures and charts. 

The Anti-Tuberculosis League had every device to show the use of fresh air, 
good food, and cleanliness as a preventative and cure for disease; and the bottle 
of patent cure-all flashed a death's head every few seconds to emphasize its deadly 
work. 



Q4 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

The hookworm campaign, the necessity for pure drinking water, and the fight 
against the typhoid fly were all displayed in posters or models of the right and 
wrong way to live. 

The flies (on wires) actually flew from their birth place in a stable to the open 
window of a tiny cottage, there to walk upon the table and deposit their load of 
filth and germs. 

The Russell Sage Foundation cooperated with the Exposition Board to show 
agencies for Child Welfare. The social center, the vocational training, the boy 
scout and camp fire girl movements, juvenile court, medical inspection of school 
children — all agencies for the care and training of the youth of the land were brought 
vividly to the attention of the public. 

Under the direction of IMiss Pearl MacDonald, the Household Economies Com- 
mittee of the Wisconsin Federation of Women's Clubs is actively engaged in work 
which will not only aid the city and town families but will also 
Wisconsin extend to the housewives and schools in rural districts. 

Household They are placing Home Economics books and magazines in 

Economics the libraries, urging women to avail themselves of the school 

Committee laboratories, furnishing outlines of study to women's clubs, send- 

ing out questionnaires to principals in order to determine to what 
extent Home Economics is taught in the schools, and cooperating with the legisla- 
tive committee to secure satisfactory pure food laws. 

Richards Day, December 3, was observed in the Polytechnic School, San Fran- 
cisco by an exhibit and readings by the students. Old Paisley shawls, a sampler 
made in 1700, Spanish lace worn a century ago, old china, books 
Richards Day and watches were displayed. The modem contribution to the 
Observed exhibit was the hats made by the girls who are to wear them 

when they graduate. 
The readings were on the Life of Ellen H. Richards, Colonial Cooking, Euro- 
pean Methods of Cooking, Quaker Laces, and Hints on Clothing. 

A School for Housekeepers was held January 19 to 30, in the Woman's Building, 
University of Illinois. 

Lectures were plarmed to give information on the house, on 
School for food, clothing and health; they included the following: The 

Housekeepers Illinois Way of Neighborhood Planting, Good and Bad Archi- 
tecture and Why, Appreciation of Pictures, Some Suggestions for 
the Home Library, Care of the House, Good Taste in Furnishings, WTiy Household 
Science Clubs Should be Organized Among Housekeepers, System of Lighting for 
the Farm Home, Systems of Water Distribution in the Farm Home, Food and Its 
Function in the Body, Planning Meals, Food for the Sick, Care of Milk in the 
Home, Pure Food Legislation, Table Setting and Service, Home Canning, Rural 
School Lunches and Equipment, Vegetables, Food for the Child, Infant Feeding, 
Farm Marketing, Some Points in Dressmaking, Good Taste in Dress, Choosing 
Material for Clothing, Home Millinery, Health in the Home, and Home Care of 
the Sick. 



1 9 14] News from the Field 95 

Extension Courses in cooking and sewing will be given, beginning February 2 
and continuing for four weeks. These are free, have no prerequisites and are not 
given for credit. Owing to the crowded conditions in the kitchens and sewing 
rooms, only a limited number can be received in these courses. Candidates will 
be assigned places in the order of their application. Preference is given to non- 
residents of Champaign and Urbana. 

Last June the School e.xpected to have the unusual experience of beginning this 
year with every one of the forty-two members of its staff of 191 2-13 returning. 

But during the summer one instructor changed her personal 
Pratt Institute, plans suddenly, marrying and going to Cuba to live. There was 
School of therefore one vacancy to be filled. This was in teaching mil- 

Household Sci- linery for home use, and Miss Hester B. Lyon (Mechanics In- 
ence and Arts stitute) was appointed. Three additions were made to the staff. 

Miss Gwladys Hughes (Normal Household Arts, Pratt Institute, 
1913) was appointed as assistant in dressmaking for half-time. Miss Hughes will 
spend part of her free time in a dressmaking establishment, in order to gain further 
experience in dressmaking under trade conditions. Mr. Arthur L. Guptill was ap- 
pointed assistant in House Planning and Furnishing. Mr. Guptill is a graduate 
architect, who spends part of his time in an architect's office, and part in teaching. 
For this particular problem he is working under the direction of Miss Mary Qumn, 
the school instructor in design. Miss Wanda Broczkoski (Institutional Household 
Science, Pratt Institute, 191 2) has been appointed in charge of the cookery supply 
room and as assistant in the lunchroom. In the former work she relieves an 
instructor to give her time for assistance to other instructors. 

The School opened with the maximum possible enrollment of entering normal 
students — eighty, and with the same in institutional household science — forty. 

The University of Illinois reports a largely increased enrollment in its House- 
hold Science Department. The new addition to the Woman's Building is practic- 
ally equipped, giving increased opportunity for all lines of the 
Household Sci- work. The work formerly carried on by Miss Harriet Rinaker, 
ence Depart- now Mrs. Paul E. Howe of New York City, has been divided 
ment, University and is now conducted by Miss Florence Harrison, B.S., Univer- 
of Illinois sity of Illinois, '08, and Miss Olive Percival, B.S., University of 

Illinois, '10. The work in textiles, formerly given bj' Miss 
Charlotte M. Gibbs, now Mrs. Cecil E. Baker of Chicago, is in charge of Miss 
Lurene Seymour, Ph.B., Universityof Michigan, '95, B.S., Columbia University, '12. 

Miss Harrison and Miss Crigler are uniting with Miss MacKay of Iowa Agricul- 
tural College in giving demonstrations at the National Dairy Show in Chicago. 

The Survey of December 6 in an eloquent editorial addressed to the new mayor 
of New York and his associates demands of them as their most important work, 
"the redemption of the school system, its closer adaptation to 
Editorial in modem needs, its efficiency and practicality, the ennobling of 

"Survey" its aims and the constant self-scrutiny of its methods, the 

development of a sounder loyaltj' and a stronger esprit de corps 
among the teachers, a clearer recognition of the direct economic function of the 
schools, while not obscuring the truth that the child is above all a spiritual being 



96 The Journal of Home Economics [February 

and that to starve his spiritual nature is the worst, because the most complete) 
race suicide. In short, a twentieth century school system — one worthy of the 
splendid city, equal to the gigantic need, generously conceived, adequately fiimnced, 
rigidly scrutinized, popularly understood and strong in a universal affection. 

"Next in importance to the schools are the health activities of the city. By dis- 
covering in infants and growing children minor physical defects, weaknesses and 
tendencies, and advising how they can be overcome or minimized; by controlling 
communicable diseases; by securing the purity of milk, meats, fruits and other food 
products; by scientific compilation and interpretation of vital statistics; by labor- 
atory research and clinical study; and by a great campaign of educational propa- 
ganda on every subject of which popular knowledge will contribute to the public 
health, the health service will supplement the professional practice of medicine and 
promote the normi^l growth of sound hygiene in the community. This will inevit- 
ably improve the racial stock, increase the proportion of fruitful marriages, and 
modify continually for the better the relation between the birth rate and the death 
rate. More and more of those who are bom will develop into vigorous long-lived 
adults. There will be a great reduction in the loss from disease, orphanage, pre- 
mature and \aolent deaths, as all deaths from fevers, poisons, infections, and 
occupational diseases should be called." 

The Naples Table Association for Promoting Laboratory Research by Women 
has announced the offer of a seventh prize of $1000 for the best thesis written by 
a woman on a scientific subject. This thesis must embody new 
The Ellen observations and new conclusions based on independent labor- 

Richards Re- atory research in biological (including psychological), chemical, 
search Prize or physical science. 

The theses offered in competition are to be presented to the 
Executive Committee of the Association and must be in the hands of the Chairman 
of the Committee on the Prize, Dr. LiUian Welsh, Goucher College, Baltimore, 
Md., before February 25, 1915. The title page of each manuscript must bear an 
assumed name; and the writer must send with her manuscript, a sealed envelope 
containing her application blank and superscribed with her assumed name. 

The Association reserves the right to withhold the prize, if the theses presented 
are not, in the judgment of the regularly appointed Board of Examiners, or by 
such specialists as they may choose, of adequate merit to deserve the award. 

The decision will be aimounced at the annual meeting in April, 1915. 

In April, 191 1, the prize was named the Ellen Richards Research Prize in recog- 
nition of the devoted service of Mrs. Richards as Chairman of the Committee on 
the Prize since its appointment in 1900. 

The School Lunch Committee of the .\merican Home Economics Association has 
an exhibit on School Feeding that was made originally for the Fourth Interna- 
tional Congress on School Hygiene. This exhibit consists of 
School Lunch two five panelled screens, each panel being 3 by 6 feet. The 
Committee Ex- exhibit may be borrowed by any organization that desires to 
hibit use it. The charges are the expense of transportation and five 

dollars a screen. For further information or a picture of the 
exhibit apply to Miss Boughton, Stock Exchange Building, Philadelphia. 



1914] News from the Field 97 

According to the British Food Journal, a Pure Food and Health Society of Great 
Britain has recently been incorporated upon the same lines as the Royal Society 
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children. The license of the 
The Pure Food Board of Trade practically establishes it as an institution au- 
Society and thorized to supplement the work of the ofTicial Food Inspectors. 

Food Inspection It will employ a body of paid inspectors of its own, who will act 
as its agents in the warfare against unscrupulous food "fakers," 
and thus help to safeguard the public health and all honest traders. It has 
already been working for four years, but has labored hitherto under the difficulty 
of being a private society, officially unrecognized. 

A distinguished educator from Columbia University who recently visited the 
Philippines says, in speaking of the schools, "I have visited many countries and 
_ studied the educational systems in all of them, but in no part of 

p the world is there a system so perfectly adapted to social condi- 

p . tions of the people as in this country. The system here might 

*j well serve as a model to the rest of the world from the stand- 

point of adaptation to the needs of a country." 

An examination is announced for March 11-12, 1914, in all of the principal 
cities of the United States, for securing a list of eligibles from which to make 
selections to fill positions in the Philippine teaching service. 

The places to which those appointed will be assigned are: for men, supervisors 
of school districts, teachers of English, mathematics, history, science, manual 
training, agriculture; for women, teachers of domestic science and home economy. 

This is a field which requires the services of young people of superior qualifica- 
tions, excellent character and good preparation; who are able to maintain a posi- 
tion of influence among a rapidly developing people. 

This is the last examination of the present school year and those appointed will 
be expected to sail for ]Manila within the next few months, ready for the open- 
ing of the new school year. 

For information relative to the nature of the service and the examination, address 
Bureau of Insular Affairs, Washington, D. C. 

In June, 1914, there will be opened in London a tropical exposition, theoretically 
of a twofold nature, comprising the Fourth International Rubber and Allied In- 
dustries Exposition and one of International Cotton, Fibers, 

'TT- T J T7 and Other Tropical Agriculture Products and Allied Industries. 
The London Ex- _,,. .■.„,,,,. , . . ,, , , 

r T> v -ihis exposition wm be held m what is unquestionably the best 
position of Rub- ., , , , , „ ■ ■ , , . , ■ , , , 

, H T ■ P°^^'t>le place for such an affair ot world-wide mterest, and both 

. p J . the producers of raw products and the manufacturers and deal- 

ers in both raw and finished tropical staples will have a rare op- 
portunity to meet and compare notes in the midst of probably 
the finest display of this class of the world's merchantable goods the public has 
ever seen. 

His Majesty the King of England is patron of the combined expositions, and the 
organizing manager is A. Staines Manders, Esq., who organized the very success- 
ful Third Rubber and .\llied Industries Exhibition in New York in the summer of 



gS The Journal of Home Economics [February 

191 2. The president of the rubber exposition is Sir Henry S. Blake, the ex-gov- 
ernor of Ceylon, Bahamas, Newfoundland, Jamaica, and Hongkong. The president 
of the cotton, fibers, and other tropical and agricultural products exhibition is 
Prof. W>'ndham Dunstan, director of the Imperial Institute and president of the 
International Association of Tropical Agriculture and Colonial Development. 

The e.xposition will open on Wednesday, June 24, and will close on Thursday, 
July 9. Together with the double exposition there will be held simultaneously an 
international congress of tropical agriculture which will be attended by delegates 
from all parts of the world. 

It is interesting to note that the management has decided to create a palms and 
palm-products section on account of the tremendous importance of the cocoanut 
and its rival the oil palm — not to mention nipa, burl, sago, and several of the India 
palms which are rapidly increasing in importance in commerce. 

Owing to the efforts of The Universal Cookery and Food Association, the Lon- 
don County Council has established a technical cookery school for boys at the 
Westminster Technical Institute, Vincent Square. S, W. J. 
The London Stuart Ker, M.A., is principal. The Association has the privi- 

County Council lege of annually nominating four boys for free admission to 
Technical Cook- the school, an annual grant of £50 being made to the London 
ery School Coimty Council for this purpose. 

for Boys "The school has been established with the object of provid- 

ing a course of scientific and technical instruction for boys in 
all branches of cookery, pastry and confectionery. The full course of instruction 
will cover a period of three years, and will include the technical or professional 
training of the pupils under a skilled chef-instructor and the improvement of their 
general education. The school is equipped with a kitchen, pastry and ice-making 
roof, larder and store rooms, fitted up with culinary appliances of the latest and 
most approved type." 

Admission to the school is restricted to boys between fourteen and sixteen years 
of age who have passed the sixth standard or its equivalent. 



[ 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Home, Institution, School 

EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR 

Mb8. Mary H. Abel Keturah E. Baldwin 

EDITORIAL BOARD 

Benj. R. Andeews C. F. Lanowobthy 

Isabel Ely Lord 

COLLABORATORS 
The Officers and Members of the Councfl 

Vol. VI APRIL, 1914 No. 2 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Home Economics and rural extension, Otis W. Caldwell 99 

Agencies at work in New York State for the betterment of food conditions, 

Susannah Usher 109 

Duty of the home and school clubs in helping the Home Economics courses 

in high schools, Mary Hinman Abel 114 

Distribution of household labor, C. F. Langworthy 120 

James Nasmyth and his economical device for slow cooking 127 

A comparison of methods of cooking, Cornelia French^ 131 

"^^ study of textiles as a part of the related subject matter in courses of sew- 
ing, Florence Buchanan 135 

Report on housing conditions and diet of high school pupils at Vevay, 

Indiana 138 

School credit for home work in Home Economics, Grace Schermerhom 141 

Score cards 146 

The school tor house maids in Denmark, George Nestler Trioche 151 

The work of the Home Economics Department, General Federation of 

Women's Clubs, Helen Louise Johnson 153 

Editorials 156 

Housekeepers' Department 161 

Bibliography for Home Economics literature 185 

Books and Uterature 189 

Books received 196 

News from the field 197 

The Journal of Home Economics is published five times during the year, February, April, 
June, October, December, by the American Home Economics Association. 

$2.00 A YEAR. FOREIGN $2.25. SINGLE COPIES 50 CENTS. 

HOW TO REMIT. Remittances should be sent by Draft on New York, Express Order, or 
Postal Money Order, payable to the American Home Economics Association. Currency, unless 
mailed in a registered letter, is at the sender's risk. 

CHANGE IN ADDRESS. Notice of change in address should be sent Two Weeks before 
the date of issue on which the change is to take effect. The change cannot be made unless the 
subscriber's Old Address is clearly indicated in addition to the New Address. 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 
Roland Park Branch, Baltimore, Md. 

Entered as second class matter at the Baltimore Post Office. 



THE 

Journal^/Home Economics 

Vol. VI APRIL, 1914 No. 2 

HOME ECONOMICS AND RURAL EXTENSION ^ 

Otis W. Caldwell 
University of Chicago 

This discussion makes no claim to possession of any considerable 
technical information regarding that body of knowledge which is so 
rapidly giving Home Economics a recognized standing as a science. 
The topic is to be considered from the point of view of one who 
beHeves profoundly in the value of the achievements of science, 
and who believes that science has not performed its truest and 
fullest function until it has become dynamic and efifective in the 
daily activities of those who compose the masses of our popu- 
lation. Science is constantly striving to rationalize in the minds of 
men the phenomena and processes of nature which are now occurring 
or which may be induced to occur; but far more than this, science 
must utilize its rationale of nature in the practices of men. Men who 
have discovered or have approximated the rationale of nature and 
organized her phenomena, processes, and laws into coherent sequences 
have produced our tangible evidence of science. But this sort of 
science, though fundamental, is essentially static. It becomes dy- 
namic when it has come into the lives of the world's workers and has 
rationalized their daily relations with nature and natural resources. 

When Robinson Crusoe and his man Friday were left alone upon 
the unknowTi island, they suddenly came squarely face to face with 
the necessity of securing food, shelter, and happiness from their new 
surroundings. Each man, guided by his own previous experiences, 

^ Presented at the Sixth Annual Meeting of the American Home Economics 
Association, Ithaca, 1913. LE I- / h '1 ii IlK i 

99 



ICX> 



The Journal of Home Economics [April 



began to interpret the possibilities of the env-ironment. Friday saw 
terrifying dangers hiding in the shadows, but Crusoe took command 
of the natural resources of the island and by means of goat and fire 
pro\ided food and prepared shelter and conveniences which increased 
the comfort and happiness of both men. Friday, devoid of ante- 
cedents which led him to face nature, analyze her factors and turn 
them to his uses, was in sharp contrast ^^'ith Crusoe, whose attitude 
and training enabled him to minister to his wants in a new region. 
Furthermore, Friday, anable to order affairs for himself, became an 
assistant in executing the plans made by the better trained Crusoe. 
Relative independence and production of comforts and happiness 
nowadays depend in general upon ability to use knowledge in definite 
intelligent ways, toward definite, inteUigent and worthy ends. The 
present demand upon science is that it become dynamic and pur- 
poseful in common affairs, as well as special and intensive in the re- 
searches of the differentiated fields of science. We should therefore 
consider the inherently intimate relation of science to more purpose- 
ful rural education. 

The Rural Situation 

/. Agriculture. In our splendid advance in developing purposeful 
education in rural districts, attention has been focused upon agricul- 
ture, and upon those phases of agriculture w^hich deal ^^'ith larger 
and better producti\ity, diminishing cost and waste of materials pro- 
duced, and conservation of resources for future production. This 
was logical, perhaps, since without production and conservation all 
else fails in rural life as elsewhere, but we always need to count the 
cost at which increased production is secured. In 1910, boys in a 
number of southern states entered into a contest to see how much 
corn they could grow upon one acre of ground. Their acreage yield 
at the close of the contest was found to range from 83^ bushels to 
228f bushels. But the cost of production ranged from 8 cents per 
bushel to 49 cents per bushel. One boy produced 119 bushels at a 
cost of 8 cents per bushel, while the boy producing 2285 bushels 
incurred a cost of 43 cents per bushel and one producing 83! bushels 
incurred a cost of 49 cents per bushel. 

Because of the fact that productive agriculture has had chief empha- 
sis by those who are advocating better things in rural education, pro- 
ductivity may have been advanced but possibly at a high cost, or at 
least no large gain to rural life. Agricultural education is recognizing 



1914] Home Economics and Rural Extension loi 

its larger functions, and is turning its attention, not away from pro- 
ductivity of farms, but toward betterment of rural life. Funda- 
mentally farming advances when rural people are better and happier. 
That farm productivity depends upon the farm home is more 
fundamentally true than is even yet generally recognized. One 
case will serve as a typical illustration of many cases of farm produc- 
tivity at too great a cost. On a small Indiana farm is a farmer 54 
years of age, a man known for his good farming methods, and his 
ability to produce, feed, and market good farm animals. But the 
inefficient home, involving poor food, irregular hours for meals (some- 
times their omission), no ventilation at night, and doors open with 
passive welcome to poultry in the daytime, financial penury in home 
expenditure, at times, and prodigality at others, unhygienic personal 
habits, were factors which led to disease; and of a family of five mem- 
bers, but two, the farmer and one son, are left. His time and energy 
for making his farm productive, and his interest in doing so have been 
well-nigh removed because of the failure in which he seems to bear 
a large measure of responsibiUty. 

2. Home Efficiency in Rural Life. The present situation relative to 
efficiency of rural homes shows conditions as diverse as those in agricul- 
tural productivity. Our general knowledge and the exact information 
presented to us by rural surveys in Minnesota, Wisconsin, Ohio, New 
York and elsewhere present in a striking way, facts relative to home 
efficiency, facts which were already known in part, but are now more 
insistent for attention because more imiversal than our individual 
experiences had taught us to regard them. Similar facts are known 
relative to the conditions in city homes, but it is not particularly 
helpful to deal in comparisons of country and city homes. 

Quite recently a party of students, who planned to spend the night 
in camp in the vicinity of their field studies, had great difficulty in 
finding a farm house where they could purchase bread, butter, eggs, 
and potatoes to supply their needs. The region certainly did not 
represent typical farm homes, but since the supporting industries in 
the locality in question were agriculture, orcharding, gardening, and 
dairying, it seemed reasonable to suppose that satisfactory supplies 
could be easily secured. After approaching four homes and being 
turned away, either by the refusal of the occupants or the unclean 
and unhygienic conditions of the household, they were forced to be 
satisfied with hard bread at ten cents a loaf, butter too strong to be 
disturbed, a few potatoes, and two dozen eggs which represented 



I02 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

several days' collections from a large number of hens. The case is 
an extreme one and by no means typical, for, grading from country 
homes of this illustration, there is an increasing efficiency of farm homes 
reaching up to as attractive and efficient as exist in country or city. 
But the need of modem science in home management is very evident. 
J. The Rural School. Various publications and the individual 
experiences of many of us, show that the rural school situation is in 
general the most stagnant and static part of our whole educational 
system, and is also one of the points for most strategic and hopeful 
attack now open to educational people. In a recent bulletin on the 
Status of Rural Education in the United States,^ we are told that "few 
realize the magnitude of the rural educational problem now before us. 
It is not generally known that illiteracy in nu-al territory is t^vice as 
great as in urban territory. This is in spite of the fact that thou- 
sands of illiterate immigrants are crowded into the great manufactur- 
ing and industrial centers. The illiteracy among native-bom chil- 
dren of native parentage is more than three times as great as among 
native children of foreign parentage, largely on account of the lack 
of opportimities for education in rural America, in which compara- 
tively few immigrants live. Few know that approximately 62 per 
cent of the total school enrollment is in rural schools, but that the 
rural aggregate attendance is 51 per cent of the total aggregate at- 
tendance; that about 60 per cent of those in rural schools are in 
one-teacher country school houses, and that the instructional work 
in the average one-teacher country school is of very low grade." In 
one district school during the year just closed there were gathered 
the pupils from four school districts, aggregating 52 pupils. Thirty 
years ago from the limits of the one central district there came almost 
as many pupils. These pupils in the consolidated school were taught 
last year by one teacher, a young girl, who in inefficiency and limited 
educational outlook and enthusiasm, is typical of a tragically large 
nmnber or first-year, one-room-school teachers throughout the United 
States. This number of first-year rural teachers is estimated to be 
annually almost one-third of the whole number of niral teachers. 
In 32 states there are 147,227 one-room-school teachers. In 21 states 
there are 3,621,278 pupils in one-room schools. When we think of 
the fact that almost one-third of these pupils are taught by teachers 
who too often are young and inexperienced, often teaching their 

*U. S. Bur. Education Bui. 515. 



1914] Home Economics and Rural Extension 103 

first and only school year with no serious purpose of making life 
better and more worthwhile to those who live in their school commu- 
nity, the situation in its complexity begins to appear. 

Consolidation of country schools may result in bringing together 
pupils from several districts so that their work may be better graded, 
and that fewer classes may be assigned to one teacher. It may re- 
sult in socializing the school, and enabling it to serve as a community 
center of interests; or it may result merely in bringing together in 
one room the pupils who previously had been in two or more districts, 
and may bring no educational advantage except possibly that of the 
association of large numbers of pupils. 

Another changing feature of the rural school situation is also in 
point. Up to the present our foreign immigration has served to 
swell the urban population and to complicate urban educational prob- 
lems. The present tendency seems to be for more of our immigrants 
to go into rural communities. While the percentage of rural illit- 
eracy exceeds that of the city, the city's good showing seems to be 
due to its better educational system. When the percentage of immi- 
grants in the country has increased, if present rural education is un- 
changed, we should expect an increase in rural illiteracy. Without 
attempting to discuss the many reasons for the present situation in 
rural schools, certain demands for the increased efficiency of the school 
in rural life need to be considered. The school problem represents 
a level of instruction that is not far from that which it had a half- 
century ago. But industrial life, agriculture, sanitation, home bet- 
terment, and city education have moved forward and have left the 
country school in essentially its old position. Rural social conditions 
have changed and the school has not met the new conditions. Bodies 
of knowledge relative to rural industrial and home life have developed, 
but the school still deals chiefly with the old bodies of knowledge, 
though much of their content has ceased to be purposeful in rural life. 
The rural citizens in some localities have come to regard the rural 
school as a factor extraneous to the business of the farm and home. 
They send their children to school often because of traditional belief 
that it is a good thing to do, but with increasing frequency they are in- 
quiring about the results of the school's work. Many, probably most 
of them, are ambitious to send their children to the city schools where 
a more effective education is given, but one which does not often fit 
for country life either in content of material studied, or in belief in 
the desirability of living a rural life. Rural teachers have increased 



lo^ The Journal of Home Economics [April 

their training for their work less rapidly than other teachers, the 
standing of the rural teacher in the rural community has changed 
greatly, since the school's work has not progressed in proportion to 
the agricultural conditions and rural conveniences. Indeed, it seems 
probable that there has been an actual decrease in efficiency of rural 
teachers in many parts of the country. A generation ago the salary 
paid for rural teaching, while actually less than that now paid was 
more than it now is when measured in terms of its purchasing power. 
It was also larger in relation to salaries paid for other kmds of work 
than it is now. Even in one of our largest universities an efficient, 
paid assistant recently asked for leave of absence for six months, 
saying that he wished to follow his trade of bricklaying in order to 
accumulate some money by means of which he could carry on his 
research when he should return to the university at the end of the 
six months* absence. 

The rural school salaries, together with other causes, have done 
much to eliminate men from the schools, and to hasten the passage 
of better trained women to the city schools and to business. Elimi- 
nation of the men is especially serious to rural education, since these 
men were more likely to possess the means of relating school to farm 
life. Furthermore, changes in rural social and economic conditions, 
and in teachers themselves have brought a discontinuance of the 
beneficent old-fashioned evening in the home, when teacher, pupils 
and parents discussed community affairs together. Such an evening 
nowadays is rare, and would probably seem equally strange to teacher, 
parents and pupils. 

The situation just described represents the usual one in the United 
States, but there are numerous oases in this arid region. These oases 
are conspicuous because of the introduction of one type of work, 
namely, that which arises from practices and problems of the home 
life of the pupils and their parents. One rural school has a teacher 
who lives on a small farm near the school house. Upon the school 
ground he and his pupils have constructed a poultry house in which 
a small number of hens are well kept. The pupils and the other 
residents of the school district have discovered that there is a highly 
interesting body of knowledge about poultry — knowledge entirely 
worthy of the attention of intelligent persons. Another one-room 
school conducts a pupils' baking contest, and the standard of bread 
making in the district has improved. Many other schools here and 
there throughout the country are \atalizing their work by using and 



1914] Home Economics and Rural Extension 105 

dignifying and rationalizing rural practices both on the farm and in 
the home. 

Such features of the content of school work present the best basis 
for arithmetic and for language because the problems and descrip- 
tions are real and not imposed. The history of peaceful pursuits 
contributes more to belief in rural life than the history of warfare. 
The story of house building if adequately told is as interesting as that 
of building a warship, and immeasurably more practical, and more 
calculated to lead to attempts to build good homes. Furthermore, 
since rural teaching is now done so largely by women it seems logical 
and imperative that problems in home betterment should supply 
much of the material for vitalizing rural school education. There 
is no inherent educational reason why rural schools should not use 
the material which seem worth while to the pupils, and there are 
many educational reasons why the schools should use such material. 

Even if there are numerous schools now vitalizing their work and 
beginning to give to the country boy and girl the kind of rural edu- 
cation that they need, at least two major difficulties remain. First, 
most rural teachers and communities do not have the educational 
outlook which will enable them soon to incorporate into their own 
schools the types of reorganization that have proved beneficial. There 
is serious need of thorough and definite constructive reorganization 
of the rural school course of study upon the basis of rural life. Some 
of the hopeful experiments cited are of sufficiently comprehensive 
nature to give a good foundation for this general reorganization. 
Secondly, an even greater immediate difficulty rests in the fact that 
with efi"ective schools, the practices of the home are quite often very 
hard to reach. Most housewives regard themselves as fairly good 
housekeepers, and the shortcomings and traditions of the school are 
such that it is not easy to secure general cooperation of teacher, 
pupil, and parent. We can not wait until those now in the schools 
will be the men and women of the homes, even granting the question- 
able point that the rural school will soon be giving dynamic education 
to its boys and girls. The homes as they now are, with their conserva- 
tive adult members as well as boys and girls, must be reached, and 
what is known about making more efficient homes must be made 
available to those who can not or will not be helped directly through 
the schools. This must be done for the direct benefit to the adults; 
and if not done for them, their influence on what the schools may do 
for their children may make it more difficult to secure effective results. 



io6 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

Methods of Extension Work in Home Betterment 

/. Extension Through Those Who have Studied at Educational Cen- 
ters. When we turn attention especially to methods of extension 
work for home improvement it must be noted at the outset that one 
of the oldest and most effective methods of agricultural extension is 
by means of persons who have studied at educational centers and 
then returaed to rural situations. If they introduce new, better and 
more rational practices, their neighbors, at first often incredulous or 
adversely critical eventually do likewise. But we must remember 
that these better trained members of the commmiity are rarely in- 
terested in educating others to better ways, and, not feeling a duty 
to others, may even be conservative regarding extending helpful 
knowledge. 

2. Bringing People to Educational Centers. Agriculture, by means 
of its short courses for farmers, led the way for similarly planned short 
courses in home making. The extensive and intensive value of these 
courses no one can estimate. The intelligent instructor knows that 
he has before him in his short course practical women who, like the 
tiller of the soil, has her own more or less established practices, and 
that to influence these women they must be convinced by clear, direct 
facts, usually associated with a demonstration of the process and 
product under discussion. One cf the best results of the short course 
in agriculture and Home Economics is the positive demand upon the 
instructor to select those things from his subject that are worth while 
for common knowledge and to present those things so that they may 
be clear and may appeal to persons who are not technically trained 
in the field. The demonstrator can not say as sometimes used to 
be said in laboratories of science, "The experiment does not work 
but the principles hold just the same." The experiment, or demon- 
stration, must work and the product must stand the test. Again we 
must recall, however, that those who take the short covirses in agri- 
culture and Home Economics are those already most progressive in 
their communities. 

J. Moving the Educational Center to the People. The growing popu- 
larity of various attempts, in one form and another, toward moving 
the educational work to the people is best illustrated in the corn 
trains, cotton trains, etc. Rural extension in home making is also 
fostered in the same way. The University of Minnesota's moving 
camps of university instructors are of striking interest. But these 



1914] Home Economics and Rural Extension 107 

train and camp activities are more in the nature of relatively dis- 
connected suggestions and valuable stimulation of desire for regu- 
lar instruction than of the kind of activity ultimately to be sought 
through rural extension. We need more prolonged contact and more 
permanent results than seem likely to follow from special trains and 
camps. 

4. Publications Sent to Rural People. One of the oldest and most 
effective agencies for rural extension in agriculture, horticulture and 
gardening is the system of publishing and distributing pamphlets 
direct to those who care to receive them. In this as in most other 
movements toward rural betterment Cornell University is the coim- 
try's leader; their pamphlets now averaging one and one-half per 
week are constantly carrying direct to the people helpful material 
of many kinds. The increasing rural confidence in the publications 
from centers of rural education constantly imposes tasks of more 
serious nature upon those who prepare these pubUcations. Farmers 
and their wives, when awakened to possibilities of rural betterment, 
must not be misled and discouraged by following dogmatic directions 
regarding practices which are not applicable, or which are still in an 
experimental stage. Those extension bulletins which have led to 
intelligent experiment in the work of fann men and women have 
been productive of much good and those who prepare extension pub- 
lications need the note of warning that is ultimately far more help- 
ful to maintain the ex-perimental attitude except in those causes 
where adequate verifications justify specific formulae for action. 

5. Permanent Demonstration Centers. In agriculture it has been 
found helpful to estabhsh many local demonstration centers. There 
seems to be no prohibitive reason why educational agencies should 
not also establish home making centers, semi-public homes managed 
by the state as a means of demonstrating the science of home making. 
No doubt types of difficulties would arise which do not inhere in 
agricultural and horticultural demonstrations, but if it is reasonably 
clear that the desired results may be secured the difficulties may be 
met. 

6. Bureau to Keep in Touch with Each Family. All of the above 
extension agencies, however, are less definite than are needful, less 
certain of bringing the desired response in the home, and it seems 
that a new type of rural extension is needed in order to afifect home 
life most vitally; this is needed also as a means of utilizing more 
completely the extension agencies now being used. If there might 



io8 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

be a central bureau for the state, or in each district or a group of 
districts in large states, this bureau might serve many important 
functions in rural extension. It should collect data regarding the 
home life throughout its entire district, so that the real needs are 
adequately kno\\Ti. Such a function is already served in part by one 
or two extension centers, notably Cornell, and by various local siir- 
veys. This bureau should be a means of constant intelligent rela- 
tions between the educational center and each family within the 
territory covered. But this intelligent relation could not be estab- 
lished merely upon the basis of abstract, categorically gathered facts 
about the needs of the homes in the territory, for genuine sympathy 
and understanding of rural life is essential to the first steps in securing 
the desired intelligence. Genuine sympathy and intelligent coop- 
eration can be established only by visits from field workers. Ob- 
viously field workers are rare who possess the proper personality, 
proper knowledge, proper ideals, proper ability, to gain a welcome 
entrance within the walls of restricted homes, and when once wel- 
comed, to elicit the desire on the part of the persons within the home 
for the kind of assistance that the state wishes to give. If teachers 
of Home Economics and agriculture are really serious about making 
their material dynamic there must be an increase in the number of 
workers who can accomplish this most difficult task. It is one thing 
to discover a scientific truth — it is another thing and the ultimate one, 
the real one to make that truth fruitful in making life better and more 
purposefully productive. Our center of education must face the prob- 
lem of developing persons who can effectively carry out this work. 
The difficulties are doubtless very great, but the opportunity for 
good is not measured by these difficulties, as has been shown by the 
few who are already engaged in this work. 

Such a central bureau as that suggested would need many careful 
surveys of rural life, some of which have already appeared. The 
survey would guide the proposed bureau in individual home work. 
Also, the bureau would be thus guided in calling upon its cooperating 
academic and practical departments for exactly the kind of material 
needed. 

Our extension activities have already done much good, but when 
we count the good in terms of what is still to be done, we should allow 
our relatively successful past experiences to guide us into new plans 
for meeting the whole rural situation. The cost of such a bureau of 
extension would be great. So is the cost of war. The world spent 



1914] Agencies for the Betterment of Food Conditions 109 

last year at least $2,250,000,000 for armament in one form and an- 
other. This sum exceeds, annually, we are told, the total sum ex- 
pended upon the college courses of all young men and women who 
have been graduated from all colleges of all lands since college edu- 
cation began. In the face of these facts we dare ask for the best 
young men and women of the country with adequate funds to carry 
on the enlargements of peaceful pursuits and the life that is more 
permanently satisfying to intelligent, progressive people. 

AGENCIES AT WORK IN NEW YORK STATE FOR 
THE BETTERMENT OF FOOD CONDITIONS' 

Susannah Usher 

There is, at present, a popular interest in the production, distri- 
bution, purity, and price of food; but few people make practical use 
of the agencies that would help them in an intelligent understanding 
of the subject. 

Since this study is an attempt to state some of the agencies that 
may be called to one's aid in New York, the state and municipal 
departments have been given more emphasis than those connected 
with the federal government. 

A new Federal Bureau of Markets has been created in the Depart- 
ment of Agriculture, which, before outlining a policy, intends to 
make a study of rural conditions. 

A National and an International Federation of Farm Women are 
also studying rural problems. 

We may expect these lines of work to have a wide significance 
from the standpoint of intelhgent cooperation among producers, and 
between producers and consumers. 

In New York City information may be procured from various state 
and municipal departments to which every citizen has a right to refer. 

The City Board of Health pubHshes a sanitary code, and bulletins, 
such as the following: "The Milk Supply of New York City and 
its Control by the Department of Health," and "Pasteurization of 
Milk with Suggestions as to Methods and Apparatus to be Employed." 
Last spring the Board of Health opened a permanent exhibit at the 
Museum of Natural History, which will be a center for the dissemina- 
tion of information to the public. 

' This study was beg\in January, 1913. 



no The Journal of Home Economics [April 

The Bureau of Weights and Measures issues a pamphlet, entitled 
" WTiat the Purchasing Public Should Know," and has its offices open 
at convenient hours for consultation, and for testing the accuracy 
of scales. 

Mrs. Elmer Black, a member of the advisory board of the New 
York Terminal Market Commission, has published a pamphlet on 
" Some Observations, Comments, and Comparisons of European Mar- 
kets." This pamphlet emphasizes the fact that much of our high 
cost of living is due "primarily to economic waste in the transportation 
of food products, and secondarily to our systems of distribution." 

The Mayor's Market Commission held hearings during last winter, 
but its report is not ready for distribution. According to reports 
in the public press, the commission has found the market facilities 
in New York antiquated and cumbersome. The remedy suggested 
is, " that large terminal markets be established in each borough which 
shall be equipped with facilities for distributing at wholesale to deal- 
ers, and for supplying the public at retail. But the main thing is to 
so deliver the food supplies that the retailer will be able to sell more 
cheaply to the consumers, for the greatest number of people have 
neither the time nor desire to travel any great distance to do their 
own marketing, and take such things to their homes." 

A committee has, also, been at work on the push cart problem, and 
has recommended that push cart peddling in the streets be prohibited, 
and that permanent shelter be found for them on property owned by 
the city. 

The State Board of Health is undergoing reorganization, and so 
the new sanitary code promulgated by the Public Health Council 
has not yet been adopted, but the annual report for 191 2 gives an 
idea of the work undertaken by the department. It is interesting to 
note that it inspects summer resorts, and gives information about 
the milk, water, and ice supply. 

The laboratory of the State Board of Health has made special 
reports on purity of foods. The reports state that "the ten months' 
clause in the cold storage law is complied with — the result being that 
large quantities of foods are placed on the market which would other- 
wise be held for longer periods," Investigation has been made into 
shell fish pollution in Jamaica Bay, also special examination of oys- 
ter "floating" places and storage boxes. The health department pub- 
lishes a monthly bulletin and holds exhibits at state fairs. 



1914] Agencies for the Betterment of Food Conditions iii 

The State Agricultural Department has charge of the pure food 
work, and publishes information for distribution. Under a new law 
the Commission of Agriculture is given charge of the bonding and 
licensing of commission merchants. 

During the 1913 session of the state legislature a number of new 
laws were enacted relating to the food question. The reorganization 
of the State Department of Health under a new law gives the health 
commissioner increased powers over cold storage plants, including 
licensing power after inspection of warehouse, and he also has the 
power to inspect the kitchens of all hotels, restaurants and other 
pubhc places. 

The State Factory Investigating Commission after two years' work 
drafted thirty- two bills which covered the following subjects: Reor- 
ganization of the Labor Department, prohibition of child labor in 
canneries, sanitation of factories, fire hazard, prohibition of cellar 
bakeries, and revision of bakery laws. The passing of the bills relat- 
ing to clean factories and bakeries is a step forward toward the pro- 
duction of food under sanitary conditions. 

The New York legislature has passed a bill, similar to the federal 
food and drugs act, which is designed to protect the pubUc from in- 
sufficient weights and measures of package contents. The New York 
act prescribes "Method of sale of certain commodities; certain sizes 
of containers when used for vegetables, produce, and fruit; and net 
weight contents of containers to be indicated on outside thereof." 

As a result of the work of the State Food Investigating Commis- 
sion, several bills concerning the creation of cooperative companies, 
agricultural, cooperative banks, and bonding of commission mer- 
chants, became laws. These laws enable cooperative companies to 
be formed in New York State "under uniform and secure methods," 
and by aiding iu the solution of the problem of food production 
and distribution they will benefit both farmers and commission 
merchants. 

The sale of milk has been safe-guarded by an act of the legislature 
pertaining to unclean receptacles and places for keeping milk, and 
licensing of milk-gathering stations where milk is bought. 

A "Report of the Committee on Markets, Prices, and Costs of the 
New York State Food Investigating Commission" states that "there 
has been little work on economic lines looking to lower costs, and to 
the influence of inadequate and uneconomical market facilities as a 



112 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

factor in raising the price of food products. The work of the com- 
nuttee has been to make such a study." 

The New York State Grange has a standing committee for the 
consideration of food production and distribution which may have 
something definite to report at the next annual meeting. 

The Committee on Purity of Articles of Commerce of the Con- 
ference of Commissioners on Unifonn State Laws is at work on a uni- 
form Cold Storage Law which in many respects will be along the 
lines of the Massachusetts Law. 

The formation of the Medical Milk Commissions began in 1890 
when the Medical Society of New Jersey made an effort to improve 
the milk supply. The outgiowth of this effort was the Medical Milk 
Commission of Essex Coimty, N. J. The interest spread to other 
states and made ad\isable the formation of the American Association 
of Medical IVIilk Commissions. The object of these commissions 
is to produce "certified milk," i.e., clean, wholesome milk; and they 
have been influential in impro\ing the general milk supply. 

"Certified Milk" for New York Cit> is produced under the super- 
\'ision of the committees appointed by the Medical Society of the 
County of New York and the County of Kings. 

The New York Milk Committee was organized by the New York 
Association for the Improvement of the Conditions of the Poor in 
1906, and incorporated as a separate enterprise in 1910. The four 
cardinal points in the Milk Committee's campaign are: Education of 
mothers in the care and feeding of babies, clean milk, milk standards, 
and cooperation between public and private agencies. 

The IVIilk Committee has to its credit the organization of the 
National Commission on Milk Standards, whose first report was 
printed in the Public Health Report of the Public Health and Marine 
Hospital Ser\ice of the United States. Another ofishoot of the New 
York Milk Committee is the New York Dairy Demonstration Com- 
pany which aims to produce certified milk at a reasonable price. 

The committee investigated the character of the milk sold in hotels 
and restaurants and found the bacterial count in some cases very 
high. The interest of the managers and proprietors was so awakened 
that they formed a Pure Food Association whose object is to improve 
the quality of food served in public places. 

The Society for the Improvement of the Condition of the Poor 
has added a new department of Social Welfare, which, after studying 



1914] Agencies for the Betterment of Food Conditions 113 

food conditions, will outline a scheme that will cooperate with, but 
not duplicate the work of the consumers. 

The Food Committee of the Consumers League has been active in 
the campaign to protect food offered for sale from dust and flies. It 
helped the State Factory Investigating Commission in its work for 
clean bakeries, and, at a public hearing of the commission, advocated 
the following: "All windows and doors of bakeries to be screened; 
one department responsible for inspection; new cellar bakeries to be 
prohibited as in Chicago, Providence and other large cities." The 
committee does educational work by talks on food, exhibits, distri- 
bution of literature, and the publication of magazine articles. 

Among the newer organizations are the Housewives' League and 
the Daily Food Alliance. The Housewives' League lays particular 
stress on market conditions and legislation. The Daily Food Alli- 
ance has for its platform, "pure food, full weight and measure, and 
sanitation." 

The Woman's Municipal League has not spent much time on the 
food problem, but it has worked for better bakeries, and has inspected 
the food stands in the public parks. Last April the League was 
invited to participate in a conference on the "Cost of Living" to be 
held under the auspices of the American Academy of Political and 
Social Sciences. 

The National Civic Federation has a pure food and drug depart- 
ment whose "object is to promote imiform legislation on this subject 
among the states, to work for effective cooperation between state and 
federal government, and to demand better enforcement of existing 
laws," etc. 

The Fly Fighting Committee of the American Civic Association 
is doing good work for more sanitary food. 

This article will not attempt to consider the steadily growing coop- 
erative movement which will soon be a factor in reducing the cost 
of living. 

Few people have time or desire to consult all the sources of aid at 
their command. A need is felt for different centers that would act 
as clearing houses for information relating to food in its various 
aspects, and permanent exhibits which would make this information 
more concrete and valuable. These are necessary, as the basis of 
success of all agencies working for the improvement of food condi- 
tions is the education of the people. 



114 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

DUTY OF THE HOME AND SCHOOL CLUBS IN HELP- 
ING THE HOME ECONOMICS COURSES 
IN HIGH SCHOOLS^ 

Mary Hinman Abel 

We are told that there are now well-equipped Home Economics de- 
partments in high schools that are not used to their capacity because 
where the course is elective many girls do not take it, choosing in some 
cases a study hour instead, which will free their evenings for pleasure. 
This would seem to be a proper case for consideration in a Home and 
School Club. Is the right influence being exerted at home to induce 
the girl to take the Home Economics courses? In our new apprecia- 
tion of the wise hints to be found in young inclinations and desires, are 
we in danger of giving up all effort to put at their disposal the benefit 
of our life experience? 

A man was known to say, "I am not going to advise my boy about 
his profession. I don't want him saying to me some day, 'You ad- 
vised me to take up what I've failed in.' " Such an attitude seems to 
be a cowardly shirking of our responsibilities. We must run the risk, 
if risk there be, in helping them to understand themselves and the con- 
ditions they will probably meet in life. Then with the utmost pa- 
tience we must see them make a try, often futile, at perhaps widely 
different occupations to find what fits them. Because a boy is clever 
with tools we cannot at once conclude that he is to be a machinist. 
He may have a stronger bent in some artistic direction, maybe as an 
actor or journaUst if given a chance to find himself. Most of us want 
to do our work in the world if we can find it. What seems to be laziness 
is often lack of interest or the friction which comes when our job is a 
bad fit: a boy who is a born scholar held to digging holes for fence posts; 
a man who loves monotony forced into the sharp current of events, as 
a timid son put at the head of a bank because his father owns most of 
the stock. A change is sometimes magical in its results. A woman 
who was a failure as a cook went into a laundry. She was as happy as 
the day is long. "All I have to do is just smooth back and forth, " she 
said. On the other hand a boy full of force and inventiveness was 
heard to say, "I just hate this lathe I have to watch, it never wants 
anything all day but oil," and so it goes, roimdpegsin square holes. 
But in how many cases it is not so much that the job is a bad fit as 

^ Given before the Mother's Club of Baltimore, January 14, 1914. 



19 14] Duty of the Home and School Clubs 115 

that the workers have not been taught to see the possibilities of interest 
in the work and its bearing on their lives. 

With the attention now given to play there is little need to be afraid 
that our young people will not have what they call a good time, it is 
almost fun enough to be young; but those splendid years between 
thirty and sLxty ought to be full of health and power and joyous activi- 
ties while they will be far otherwise if youth is not well spent. Life is 
going to be longer than the youth can believe, and much more interest- 
ing and there need be no gray, faded waiting for death even at seventy. 

It cannot be denied that it is harder to help a girl than a boy to train 
for life; modern industrial changes have affected them more pro- 
foundly. In the last fifty years over 300 occupations have been opened 
to women and there are said to be 6,000,000 women in this country 
earning their living outside the home. There is every reason to think 
that these occupations offer a valuable training in accuracy, in breadth 
of mind and in understanding of the world we live in, but most of us 
feel that a few years only are needed to give this training and to insure 
a means of self support when taken up later in lite, and that the woman 
finds her fullest development as an individual and a citizen in the home. 
How prepare for this complex life? Only by giving the girl early to 
understand this double function, also that she must train for the duties 
of this home, and earn and save for it just as her brother does. There 
is everjrwhere a demand that women should be paid as much as men for 
the same work. Then they should certainly expect to work and save 
for that home-to-be. They can then venture on a marriage which 
would otherwise be imprudent. 

In European countries this is taken for granted. The wealthy girl 
has her dowry, the working girl her savings to help set up the home; 
here the girl too often looks on all she earns as her own to spend now 
and as she pleases. A girl in a northern town who was earning $1500, 
was asked why she spent this all on dress and travel, instead of saving 
for her home. She is what is called an advanced woman, but she 
expected the man to attend to that. It is a well known fact that 
economic pressure — the lengthening time required for preparation for 
every profession — is pushing forward the time for marriage. Now that 
women have the chance to earn they must also save for the home they 
will want whether they think so now or not. If they do not marry 
there will be relatives or friends to gather around them and there are 
always children to adopt. It is not easy without seeming sentimental 
to say what the home has meant to the race. Who does not know old 



ii6 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

houses that have sheltered four or more generations? Their ample 
rooms, their garrets where children who are now gray haired men and 
women have played hide and seek are full of delightful whispers of the 
past. Were you ever homesick as a child? One reahzes then the 
blessed meaning of those sheltering arms of home. Now a woman can 
make a home, a man cannot. If every woman would stop and realize 
that this precious thing is with her to make and keep or it does not 
exist, would she not count any sacrifice small for its attainment? 

Probably sentiment in the marriage relation would be better 
served in the end if girls were taught to take a more open-eyed, re- 
sponsible view of marriage. A girl ought to say to herself: 
"This man I am going to marry is healthy, moral and eflScient 
and I am fond of him, or I would not have accepted him. To- 
gether we are embarked on what Arnold Bennett has called the Great 
Adventure. It has in it difficulties and risks but also great and sweet 
rewards, and it is our part in the world's work. We are going to found 
a home and I must not think so much about happiness; it will come if I 
can make an all round success. This man's good qualities I can en- 
hance, I can help him become more efl&cient in body, mind and spirit, 
if I build up around him a happy home. This is my job and I am 
going to throw mysell into it as whole heartedly as did my great-grand- 
mother when she helped her man to found a home in the wilderness. " 

This home cannot reach its spiritual ends unless its practical re- 
quirements are met. It cannot teach the children habits of order and 
give forth a spirit of peace and harmony if the furniture that has been 
chosen is an incongruous lot, and the contents of drawers and cup- 
boards are in confusion. It cannot teach the young people to care for 
their health if the food is not properly chosen and cooked. It cannot 
be fair to the money earners of the group unless good ethical and 
economic standards obtain for the spending of the income, unless there 
are honest dealings ■^'ith each; there is little sweetness and Ught in any 
household whose mistress is worn and harassed because she has never 
conquered her work by learning to save steps, to choose proper im- 
plements, to get a new \s-indow in the kitchen if she needs it. 

A young girl, too much petted and shielded, said, "What is this 
Domestic Science? Keeping flowers in the vases, I suppose, and all 
that?" It was significant that she said "and all that" for it showed 
some glimmer of an idea that a woman has her work in the world as 
much as a man and it is not all keeping flowers in vases. Why, we 
have forgotten in the new ease of the last generation that before us lie 



1 9 14] Duty of the Home and School Clubs 117 

stretches of time when all women worked, when only queens were 
idle. See the proofs in Mt. Vernon of the activities of Martha Wash- 
ington, the first lady of the land. A woman must work for her home 
before and after or meet failure in a matter very essential to happiness. 
We do not spare the man. The burden of the support of the family is 
laid on him for life. 

What is meant by the new housekeeping to which reference has 
been made? Simply that science is being applied to this long belated 
industry, showing better methods, offering new appliances and sug- 
gesting a boundless field for improvement. First of all this makes the 
work interesting and takes away the feeling of drudgery which attends 
unmeaning repetition. Indeed, housework is the most interesting 
work in the world and precisely because it is not finished, not all cut 
and dried in its methods, but constantly growing and adjusting itself to 
to growing knowledge and our daily needs. Any woman in any house 
can, by taking thought, find an interesting field for her inventiveness. 
Why does her arm get tired at the ironing board? Suppose she stops 
and considers instead of continuing to place that ironing board between 
the same two tables that generations have used before for the purpose. 
If she finds that the board is too high she should lower it so that it 
will give a better "purchase." If she counts the needless steps in a 
too large kitchen she can draw an imaginary line diagonally between 
two corners and call one triangle laundry and forget it except on Mon- 
days, and then place the mixing table and shelves on the kitchen side 
of that imaginary line in the center of the room and near the stove and 
sink. By this change miles a week are saved; by reading the 
twelve rules for shop efficiency drawn up by Mr. Harrington Emerson,^ 
she can find other applications, and it all becomes an exciting business 
indeed. 

Note that hints like this have to come to her from outside, just 
as the bricklayer had to hear from this same Mr. Emerson that he could 
lay twice as many bricks in a day if the bricks were properly sorted 
and piled by cheaper labor and put level to his hand. Our workshop 
end of the house is not fitted out as an experimental laboratory nor 
have we time or training to run one. Some one else must find out good 
ways for us and give us the results. For instance, we may make jelly 
once a year, and if "the jelly will not jell" we forget by the next sum- 
mer what little light we had on that problem. But a young woman in 

* Twelve Principles of Efficiency. By Harrington Emerson. New York: En- 
gineering Magazine Co., 191 2. 



ii8 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

the Home Economics Department of the University of Illinois' spends 
three months on jelly making with the juice of many kinds of fruits — 
green, half ripe, and ripe, picked before a rain and after a rain, boiled 
without sugar, boiled with one quarter its bulk of sugar, one half, 
three quarters and equal bulk, and the results are weighed, analysed, 
described and photographed, and then tested by others; and finally, 
in a little pamphlet is written the w^hole history of jelly making for 
our benefit; if we fail again it is our fault. This is a good illustra- 
tion of the relation between the home industries and organized 
knowledge in educational courses. Or, suppose we need to know 
what is the most economical fuel for cooking — gas, kerosene or alcohol. 
This question was asked of a woman who was demonstrating an 
alcohol stove in a department store. ''Well, I can't tell you exactly," 
she repUed, "but a man was in here who had one of these burners. 
He's a man who goes to work early and he gets his own breakfast and 
he told me his teakettle, and its larger than this one, boiled in just no 
time!" A much wiser person might have given no better answer. 
That question requires for its settlement instruments of precision to be 
found only in laboratories. All such work is at the disposal of the 
teachers of Home Economics. We can learn only from trained people 
the best methods in these household arts. By dint of practice 
the older generation has learned much, but practice added to the 
newer \dews will go further. The new word is not tradition, but 
knowledge. 

There are those who say that it is all nonsense to train in cookery and 
the household arts in general. They are all going to follow the soap 
making and spinning and weaving out of the house. For twenty-five 
years we have watched for that going out and have failed to see much 
effect on the processes that are most intimate to the family comfort and 
well-being. Two influences have been at work to falsify those early 
predictions. 

First. Our growing knowledge of hygiene makes us fear to use the 
product of uninspected bakeries, and cooked food depots, and laundries, 
and for the most part they have not kept their promise as to reducing 
prices to where the home cannot compete, nor has the all-important 
problem of hot delivery of food been satisfactorily settled. 

Second. Labor-saving de\dces have been improved far beyond the 
expectations of twenty years ago and the use of electricity and gas for 

* Principles of Jelly Making, U. of III. Bid. vol. vii, no. 7. 



1 9 14] Z^M/y of the Home and School Clubs 119 

cooking has still further lightened the housewife's task. Everywhere 
houses are better planned for the work to be done in them. It seems 
very nearly certain that much of the cooking, the lighter laundry work, 
and the care of children will all be done in this coming generation in 
the individual home. First, for the sake of economy; during the years 
when the mother cannot add to the income she must help to save it. 
Second. Because these processes, especially cookery, are so intimately 
connected with the health and comfort of the family that they need 
close personal oversight; we cannot in most cases trust the so-called 
expert. Third. Because there was never devised such an educational 
plant as the household industries present. Here children may see 
the principles of physics and chemistry applied, such as the nature of 
heat and its application; here obtain such a knowledge of food and 
the simplest processes of cookery as every human being should pos- 
sess for self preservation; here learn a thousand lessons in neatness, 
precision, observation, cleanliness and its need. But the mother must 
be well trained in order to do this teaching. 

It must be remembered that habits which tend to conserve health 
and morality are learned very early or with difficulty or not at all. 
Children are quick to see what methods are made up for their education 
as kindergarten games, and what are a vital part of daily existence, 
making those they love happy, clean and comfortable. They prefer 
the real thing if too heavy tasks are not connected with it. Our 
girls must attend Home Economics courses because the methods are 
constantly changing and improving, and the mother at home, even if 
she has time and the talent for teaching, may not know the best ways. 
In the cases where girls dislike housework, it is mainly because they 
rebel at old fashioned methods, too laborious and unintelligent — no 
one has shown them how much ingenuity and thought can vary and 
improve the work — and because they do not realize, young as they are, 
what a tremendously important thing it is for the community and for 
their own happiness and development to found and keep a home. 
When they do, the courage that is in all of them will rise to the task. 
As one young housekeeper said, "I love to feel the machinery give 
under my hand." No play can equal the delight that comes from 
feeling our powers in useful and efficient activity. 

If the parents do not themselves see that the girl should be trained 
to care properly for the home, they are soon to feel a wholly new pres- 
sure — that of the state. Ten years ago what our daughters learned 
-or did not learn was considered a wholly private matter, but we are 



120 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

given to understand on all sides now that the community has some- 
thing at stake in the character and efficiency of the yoimg people that 
we send out. 

Dean Arnold of Simmons College in her address as President of the 
National Home Economics Association at its meeting in Cornell Uni- 
versity last summer dwelt on this point. She said, "We must think 
of education as a preparation for life it must make it pos- 
sible for the youth to fulfill their responsibility in the home. We shall 
yet say to the girl, 'You cannot leave school until you have received 
the elements of the training that enables you to undertake homemak- 
ing and homekeeping, to secure the essentials of the American home. 

We shall not be satisfied if your children are sewed into 

their clothes to stay there from November till June; we shall not be 
satisfied if your back door spreads disease through the neighborhood; 
M^e shall not be satisfied if your children die in infancy because you 
have not learned how to feed and house them.' " And she might have 
added unless women reach a satisfaction in their work and their de- 
velopment and help the men connected with them to do the same. 

DISTRIBUTION OF HOUSEHOLD LABORS 

C. F. Langworthy 
U. S. Department of Agriculture 

Every one recognizes that agriculture and Home Economics are 
closely related, the one producing and the other utilizing the raw mate- 
rials of food, clothing, and shelter. How great a part these two play 
in the life of the race is realized when we consider primitive or fron- 
tier conditions, where the two pursuits make up the sum of the activi- 
ties of the family. The home is imdoubtedly the older of the two, 
since the family gathered and prepared its food for untold years before 
it cultivated it. However, it seems certain that agriculture was first 
recognized as an art and systematized. It was also first taken to 
the laboratory for study and reduced to pedagogical form. It comes 
about, therefore, that in many cases as the subject of Home Econom- 
ics has developed, it has been able to profit by the experience already 
gained in agriculture. This is too well recognized to need discussion 
but it seems worth while to mention that the attempt to prepare a 
syllabus of Home Economics was a direct result of the similar enter- 

1 Presented at the Sixth Annual Meeting of the American Home Economics 
Association, Ithaca, 19 13. 



1914] Distribution oj Household Labor 121 

prise which had been successfully carried on for agriculture by the 
Association of Agricultural Colleges and Experiment Stations. These 
things being so, it is natural that we should scan closely the advance 
which is being made in the study of agricultural problems to see 
whether it may not suggest a parallel advance which may be made in 
Home Economics. 

A very promising problem for study is suggested by the report on 
the distribution of farm labor made by Prof. O. R. Johnson of the 
University of Missouri, and published as one of the research bulletins 
of the Missouri Agricultural Experiment Station.^ The author of 
this bulletin has recognized that the labor phase of farming may be 
separated broadly into two parts — the labor equipment (including 
men and horses kept for the purpose of doing farm work), and the 
labor requirement (including the physical labor necessary to carry on 
the farm operations). As he states: "These two factors are usually 
intended to be equal in quantity. In other words, a farmer never 
intends to have more labor available than required, or vice versa. 
A study of labor distribution is a study of the adjustment of these 
factors." As he is careful to point out, this matter does not involve 
in any sense the problem of securing efficient labor, which matter is 
commonly spoken of as "the labor problem." "The adjustment of 
labor equipment to labor requirement of any farming system," Pro- 
fessor Johnson continues, "is more or less affected by special condi- 
tions. The simplest adjustment is found were the manager of the 
business finds it possible to employ all the labor equipment — both 
man and horse — for as short or as long a time as is necessary. From 
this simple process, the adjustment problem goes to the other extreme, 
where a manager must employ his help for the entire year in order 
to obtain help which is efficient and dependable. For the latter case 
the task of adjusting the two factors is most difficult. With the in- 
creasing difficulty of obtaining labor equipment, goes the increasing 
difficulty of adjusting the two factors under any conditions. Through 
long experience in farm enterprises, nearly all managers have learned 
the most satisfactory results under existing conditions. If conditions 
have caused them to adopt a system of farming which gives a fairly 
regular amount of labor through the year, this also lessens the difficulty 
of adjusting the two factors." 

The investigation referred to w^as iindertaken to secure facts of 
interest in discussing such topics as these, and the report presents 

* Missouri Sla. Research Bui. 6. 



122 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

satisfactory data regarding the number of man-hours and horse-hours, 
that is, the hours of labor — by a man and by a horse — required per 
acre for the cultivation of eight or nine common crops, assuming that 
the crops receive attention whenever they require it. The study of 
the labor requirements of different crops per month serves as a basis 
for fitting crops together from a standpoint of labor distribution. 
Such data make it possible to study the degree to which the crops 
conflict from the standpoint of labor, and show how much extra labor 
will be needed and about when it will be needed, which means that 
crop rotation can bf planned, with a minimum of conflicting opera- 
tions, to anticipate the labor requirements for the different months 
of the year. As a whole, farm labor was subdivided into production 
and maintenance or upkeep — ^production being subdivided into crop 
and other factors, and maintenance or upkeep into equipment, real 
estate, household, work stock, and personal, these entries being further 
subdivided. 

Every one knows that crop cultivation requires more man-hours 
and horse-hours in summer than it does in winter, and the bulletin 
referred to shows what the mathematical relation is and the bearing 
of the whole matter upon the distribution of farm labor, such as upkeep 
and repair of buildings. It is obvious that such mathematical stud- 
ies of farm labor must be beneficial, just as truly as an accurate sys- 
tem of accounts is better than a general idea of income and expendi- 
tures. It seems clear that a similar study of household labor would 
prove equally interesting and valuable. 

In connection with the Department of Agriculture Nutrition Inves- 
tigations consideration has been given to energy requirements for mus- 
cular work of different intensity and to energy production as related 
to food supply. General data have been gathered regarding various 
matters relating to these questions and a method has been worked 
out involving the use of the respiration calorimeter for studying the 
energy requirement and energy expenditure of men and women per- 
forming different kinds of work under varied conditions. The study 
of farm labor was, therefore, of double interest in connection "with 
the Department work, and so data in hand regarding the various 
items making up household labor were brought together and the 
attempt made to distribute them according to the scheme which 
Professor Johnson proposed for farm labor. The three principal 
subdivisions — production, upkeep, and operation — were retained, and 
these were further subdi%dded, as shown in the diagram which follows. 



I9I4] 



Distribution of Household Labor 



123 



Distribution of household labor 



Production 



Distribution of 
household ^ 
labor 



Upkeep 



Food 



Household 
equipment 
and furn- 
ishings 



Clothing 



Cooking, preserving, and stor- 
ing 
Kitchen gardening 
Dairying 
Poultry raising 
Beekeeping 
Milling, etc. 

Spinning 
Weaving 
Making hangings, household 

linen, etc. 
Cabinet making, wood finishing 
Painting, papering 
Carpet and rug making 
Upholstering 
Embroidering, metal working, 

and other art handicraft 
Ornamental gardening 
Soap making, candle making, 

etc. 

Spinning 

Weaving 

Garment making 

Knitting (stockings, etc.) 

Millinery 

Shoemaking, etc. 



Stocking provisions and other supplies 

Renewing, renovating, repairing 

Laundering 

Dish washing 

House cleaning (daily, weekly, and occasional) 

Heating, lighting, ventilating 

Disposal of waste 

Care of lawn, sidewalk, etc. 



Operation 



Ordering and marketing 

Bookkeeping and accounting 

Planning meals 

Serving food 

Care of children, aged, and infirm 

Training children 

Hospitality and other social activities, etc. 



124 ^^^ Journal of Home Economics [April 

A consideration of the data as classified suggests many things for 
discussion. One of the most obvious is that so many of the items 
described imder "production" have passed entirely or are passing out 
of the home. For example, all that remains of milling in American 
homes, except among the Mexican families of the Southwest who still 
grind corn for tortillas, is the grinding of the breakfast coffee, or, 
occasionally, of a little wheat or other grain for some special kind 
of homemade bread or for breakfast cereal. Spinning and weaving 
and candle making have almost gone, as have soap making and shoe- 
making. The factory has almost entirely superseded the kitchen as 
a workshop for these activities. Rug making, carpet weaving, and 
basket making survive in some remote rural regions, and attempts are 
made to foster such home industries as a means of adding to the 
family income, but, disregarding these exceptions, such household 
arts are practiced only for teaching purposes or as a pastime. Dairy- 
ing and laundering, too, are passing from the home, as is a great deal 
of the heavy baking; and each decade sees a greater percentage of 
canning and other methods of preserving foodstuffs left to the factory. 
Sewing and garment making (for family use, not for commercial 
purposes) remain home industries to a much greater extent, but 
here, too, a change can be noted. Men's garments, except imderwear 
and linen, are almost never made at home for the men of the family, 
and women's and children's garments are purchased outside the home 
in a constantly increasing proportion. 

Will the time come when there will be left in the home only a 
certain immovable minimum? If so, what will be its content? Will 
the lighter tasks of cleaning and caring for the home, of preparing 
food, and of serving it remain, together with the laundering of light 
articles, especially fine and delicate fabrics, and a certain amount 
of garment making and repairing, which require special skill? Will 
the upbringing of children go out of the home as their formal educa- 
tion has so largely gone? If so, what will be the effect upon the 
child and upon the family life? We know that in many families of 
wealth the responsibility of training children is now often turned over 
to governesses and tutors. But, despite the success of some conspic- 
uous examples of this method which might be noted, most of us would 
be loath to believe that there is any general substitute for the home, 
for discipline and for the development of the finer instincts and sen- 
sibilities. What is to occupy the housewife's attention when the 
last task has left the home, if such a time ever comes? These do 



1 9 14] Distribution of Household Labor 125 

not seem idle speculations when we recall that not only industries 
have gone but that we entrust the care of our sick to the trained 
nurse, and very often in the hospital, instead of in the home, because 
we realize that the chances of recovery are thereby increased. 

If we consider how we may contribute to the solution of home labor 
problems as well as speculate about them, many suggestions occur. 
First of all, a more systematic and careful survey of the field should 
be made that we may know just how much information we have on 
hand and its character, and that we may the better understand the 
relation of home problems to other activities. 

Specific questions for study by laboratory methods are numerous. 
For instance, in order to carry out the study of household labor log- 
ically and adequately, a large number of time studies should be made 
to ascertain how much time the housewife spends in the average 
home on her different household tasks, as well as their daily and 
seasonal variation, and the possibilities of more logical adjustment. 
Experimental studies should also be made with a view to devising 
better methods where such are needed. Does it, in fact, take three- 
quarters of an hour to sweep and dust one room fourteen by fifteen 
feet, to quote the figures of a recent writer^ on "Household Tasks and 
the Servant Question"? What is the relation of the finish and 
furnishings to the time required? Can we, by the study of our 
household mechanics, reduce the hours of labor and increase the 
hours available for rest and recreation, without lowering household 
standards? 

To mention others of the many lines of research which suggest 
themselves when we consider the factors of labor: How many hours 
of work does it take to prepare three simple meals per day for a family 
of average size? Can the amount of time be reduced and how? 
What is the relation of the character of the meals to the time and 
labor involved? Is it possible to lessen the "woman-hours of labor" 
in a given home by purchasing more foods ready-made, and what is 
the effect of this upon the family comfort as well as the family income? 

Together with the collection of such data by laboratory methods 
should go studies of the actual energy expended in carrying on the 
different household tasks by different methods, and the relation of 
body position and household equipment to such labor expenditure. 
Perhaps some other means may be forthcoming for making such 

' Atlantic Mo., iii, 1913, no. 4, pp. 496-506. 



126 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

studies, but at present the most promising, if not the only method 
for studying them quantitatively, involves the use of the respiration 
calorimeter. With this instrument it is possible to measure the en- 
ergy expended for any kind of household labor, which can be repro- 
duced in the calorimeter chamber, and the effect of a great variety 
of conditions upon the production of physical labor and the compari- 
son of energy expenditure w-ith energy supplied by food. When these 
things have been done, we will be in a better position to discuss more 
intelligently than is otherwise possible such matters as efficiency and 
the economy of lal»or and to make comparisons, and we will have 
data for speaking about man-power and woman-power with as much 
accuracy as we now can about horsepower. Will not numerical data 
make for clear thinking in discussing home tasks, as they have for 
discussing so many problems of the mechanics of manufacturing indus- 
tries? If we had such data on hand, could we not discuss the ques- 
tion of a proper day's work in the home and the matter of overwork? 
Could we not determine the limits of safety in household work, and 
would we not be in a better position than we are at present to discuss 
the relation of physical labor to physical and mental breakdown? 

If we can fix upon values for some of the different types of house- 
hold labor by taking into account the average sum per hour which 
must be paid to women outside the home for commercial baking, 
laundering, caring for children, nursing, teaching, etc.; if we know 
the amount of time spent on such labor in the home and also the 
physical energy involved, to help us in our comparisons, we should 
be able to estimate more accurately than now the money \ alue of 
the contribution made to the family budget by the housekeeper's 
labors. Its value would sometimes be startling and would always be 
interesting. 

It is much easier to speciilate than to accomplish, but is it not 
possible for this association to consider the matter through a com- 
mittee or otherwise? A beginning might be made by working on an 
outline for the distribution of household labor, to see how the one 
here suggested should be modified and improved, and we might also 
undertake systematic time studies of different household tasks under 
varied conditions. As a contribution to the subject, we hope that 
we may in the Department of Agriculture laboratories use our res- 
piration calorimeter to measure the actual energy expended in the 
performance of household tasks of different sorts and under different 
conditions. 



1914] Nasmyth Device Jor Slow Cooking 127 

JAMES NASMYTH AND HIS ECONOMICAL DEVICE 
FOR SLOW COOKING' 

An article in a recent number of Cltambers Journal attributes the in- 
vention of casserole cooking to James Nasmyth, the well-known Scotch 
inventor. This is hardly accurate, since the casserole was known long 
before the beginning of the nineteenth century, the time when Nas- 
myth was born. He did, however, originate a cooking device very sim- 
ilar in principle to the Aladdin oven. The cooking pan was insulated 
from the outer covering by an air space and was heated by a small 
lamp. Some data about this and about marketing and housekeep- 
ing in old Edinburgh in 18 16, or thereabouts, are quoted from 
Nasmyth's autobiography, which was edited by his friend Samuel 
Smiles of Self Help and Character fame, and first published some 
thirty or more years ago. As his book shows, Nasmyth must have 
always had an interest in the daily affairs of the home. His memories 
of such things in his early childhood are full of charm as will be seen 
by the following extracts. 

"One of my greatest enjoyments when a child was in going out with 
the servants to the Calton and waiting while the 'claes' bleached in the 
sun on the grassy slopes of the hill. The air was bright and fresh and 
pure. The lasses regarded th£se occasions as a sort of holiday. One 
or two of the children usually accompanied them. They sat together, 
and the servants told us their auldwarld stories; common enough in 
those days, but which have now, in a measiure, been forgotten. 'Steam ' 
and 'progress' have made the world much less youthful and joyous 
than it was then. 

"The women brought their work and their needles with them, and 
when they had told their stories the children ran about the hill, making 
bunches of the wild flowers. They ran after the butterflies and the 
bumblebees, and made acquaintance in a small way with the beauties 
of nature. Then the servants opened their baskets of provisions, and 
we had a delightful picnic. . . . 

"In the days I refer to there was always a most cheerful and intimate 
intercourse kept up between the children and the servants. They were 
members of the same family, and were treated as such. The servants 
were for the most part country-bred daughters of farm servants or 
small farmers. They were fairly educated at their parish schools; 

* "James Nasmyth: An Autobiography." Edited by S. Smiles. New York, 
1884, n. ed., pp. 74, 75, 78, 79, 80, 145, 146, fig. i. 



128 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

they could read and -wTite, and had an abundant store of old recollec- 
tions. Many a pleasant crack we had wdth them as to their native 
places, their families, and all that was connected with them. They 
became lastingly attached to their masters and mistresses, as well as to 
the children. All this led to true attachment; and when they left us, 
for the most part to be married, we continued to keep up a correspond- 
ence with them which lasted for many years. " 

Another source of enjoyment in his early days, was to accompany 
his mother to the market. "My mother," he writes, "though gener- 
ous in her hospitaUty, was necessarily thrifty and economical in the 
management of her household. There were no less than fourteen per- 
sons in the house to be fed, and this required a good deal of marketing. 
At the time I refer to [about 1816] it was the practice of every lady who 
took pride in managing economically the home department of her hus- 
band's aflfairs to go to market in person. The principal markets in 
Edinburgh were then situated in the valley between the Old and New 
Towns, in what used to be called the Nor' Loch. 

"Dealers in fish and vegetables had their stalls there. The market 
for butcher meat was near at hand, and all were in their several loca- 
tions. It was a very Hvely and bustling sight to see the marketing 
going on. When a lady was observed approaching, likely to be a cus- 
tomer, she was at once surrounded by the ' caddies. ' They were a set 
of sturdy, hard-working women, each with a creel on her back. Their 
competition for the employer sometimes took a rather energetic form. 
The rival candidates pointed to her with violent exclamations: 'She's 
my ledie! she's my ledie!' ejaculated one and all. To dispel the dis- 
order a selection of one of the caddies would be made, and then all was 
quiet again until another customer appeared. 

"There was a regular order in which the purchases were deposited 
in the creel. First, there came the fish which were carefully deposited 
in the lowest part with a clean deal board over them. The fish-wives 
were a most stiirdy and independent class, both in manners and lan- 
guage. When at home, at Newhaven, or Fisherrow, they made and 
mended their husbands' nets, put their fishing tackle to rights, and 
when the fishing boats came in they took the fish to market at Edin- 
burgh. To see the groups of these hard-working women, trudging 
along with their heavy creels on their backs, clothed in their remarkable 
costimie, with their striped petticoats, kilted up and showing their 
sturdy legs, was indeed a remarkable sight. They were cheerful and 
good humored, but very outspoken. Their skins were clear and ruddy, 



1914] Nasmyth Device for Slow Cooking 129 

and many of the young fish- wives were handsome and pretty. They 
were, in fact, the incarnation of health. 

" In dealing with them at the fish market there was a good deal of 
higgling. They often asked two or three times more than the fish 
were worth — at least, according to the then market price. After a 
stormy night, during which the husbands and sons had toiled to catch 
the fish, on the usual question being asked, 'Weel, Janet, hoo's haddies 
the day?' 'Haddies, mem? Ou, haddies is men's lives the day!' 
which was often true, as haddocks were often caught at the risk of 
their husbands' lives. After the usual amount of higgling, the haddies 
were brought do\Mi to their proper market price — sometimes a penny 
for a good haddock, or, when herrings were rife, a dozen herrings for 
twopence, crabs for a penny, and lobsters for threepence. For there 
were no railways then to convey the fish to England, and thus equalize 
the price for all classes of the community. . . . 

"When my mother had got her fish laid at the bottom of the creel 
she next went to the flesher for her butcher meat. There was no hig- 
gling here, for the meat was sold at the ordinary market price. Then 
came the poultry stratum; then the vegetables, or fruits in their season; 
and, finally, there was 'the floore' — a bunch of flowers — not a costly 
bouquet, but a large assortment of wallflowers, daffodils (with their 
early spring fragrance), polyanthuses, lilacs, gillyflowers, and the glori- 
ous, old-fashioned cabbage rose, as well as the even more gloriously 
fragrant moss rose. The caddy's creel was then topped up, and the 
marketing was completed. The lady was then followed home, the 
contents were placed in the larder, and the flowers distributed all over 
the house. " 

And now we come to his cooking device which must have been in- 
vented about 1829 when he went up to London from Edinburgh to 
enter Henry Maudsley's works in London as an assistant, the Maudsley 
shops being the most famous machine manufactory in England at the 
time. "I was resolved," he wTites, "that my wages alone should 
maintain me in food and lodging. I therefore directed my attention 
to economical living. I found that a moderate dinner at an eating 
house would cost more than I could afford to spend. In order to keep 
within my weekly income I bought the raw materials and cooked them 
in my own way and to my own taste. I set to and made a drawing of a 
very simple, compact, and handy cooking apparatus. I took the draw- 
ing to a tinsmith near at hand, and in two days I had it in full opera- 
tion. The apparatus cost ten shillings, including the lamp. AsitcoQ- 



I30 



The Journal of Home Economics 



[April 



tributed in no small degree to enable me to carry out my resolution, and 
as it may serve as a lesson to others who have an earnest desire to live 
economically, I think it may be useful to give a drawing and a descrip- 
tion of my cooking stove. 

"The cooking or meat pan rested on the upper rim of the external 
cylindrical case, and was easily removable, in order to be placed handy 

for service. The requi- 
site heat was supplied by 
an oil lamp [presumably 
whale oil, as this was long 
before the day of kero- 
sene] with three small 
single wicks, although I 
found that one wick was 
enough. I put the meat 
in the pot, with the other 
comestibles, at nine 
o'clock in the morning. 
It simmered away all day 
until half-past six in the 
evening, when I came 
home with a healthy ap- 
petite to enjoy my 
^ dinner. I well re- 
member the first 
day that I set the 
apparatus to work. 
I run to my lodg- 
ing, atabout4p.m., 
to see how it was going on. When I lifted the cover it was simmer- 
ing beautifully, and such a savory gusto came forth that I was almost 
tempted to fall to and discuss the contents. But the time had not 
yet come, and I run back to my work. 

"The meat I generally cooked in it was leg of beef, with sliced potato, 
bits of onion chopped down, and a modicum of white pepper and salt,- 
with just enough of water to cover 'the elements.' When stewed 
slowly the meat became very tender, and the whole yielded a capital 
dish such as a very Soyer might envy. It was partaken of with a zest 
that, no doubt, was a very important element in its savoriness. The 
whole cost of this capital dinner was about ^\A. I sometimes varied 




Nasmyth's cooking apparatus. 

A, cylindrical outer case; B, the meat-pan, 

movable; C, oil-lamp. 



1Q14] A Comparison of Methods of Cooking 131 

the meat with rice boiled with a few rasLns and a pennyworth of milk. 
My breakfast and tea, with bread, cost me about fouq^ence each. My 
lodgings cost 3s. 6d. a week. A little multiplication will satisfy any 
one how it was that I contrived to live economically and comfortably 
on my ten shillings a week. In the following year my wages were 
raised to fifteen shillings a week, and then I begun to take butter to 
my bread. " 

In the autobiography, Nasmyth adds a note about his early inven- 
tion as follows: "I have this handy apparatus by me still [i8??4l; and, 
to prove its possession of its full, original efl5ciency, I recently set it in 
action after its rest of fifty years, and found that it yielded results 
quite equal to my grateful remembrance of its past services. " 

A COMPARISON OF METHODS OF COOKING" 
CoimELiA French 

The fireless cooker is a very practical and scientific adaptation of 
the recaloration of retained heat through good insulation. In the 
cooking of foods in water it is impossible, under ordinary atmospheric 
pressure, to raise the temperature above 212° F. no matter how much 
fuel is consumed under the vessel, for the reason that at 212° water 
becomes steam. In its simplest form the fireless cooker is a well- 
made box, usually of wood, packed well with insulating material (i.e. 
non-conducting) in which there are wells that hold cooking utensils. 
Into these wells the utensils holding the boiling food may be placed 
and the food will continue to cook. Since the first attempt to make 
use of this principle the cooker has been improved until now it is a 
contrivance which roasts, bakes, boils and freezes — in fact it is a 
living example of the new science — Efl&ciency. 

The common types of the modem fireless cooker have cases of wood, 
treated to stand excessive heat — this being very practical, as wood is 
a natural non-conductor of heat; the insulating material is of mineral 
wool; over the insulating material is the lining of seamless aluminum. 
There are usually one, two or three wells into which the cooking ves- 
sels fit, also the radiators made of soapstone which are used for baking 
and roasting. Some models have a ventilating valve in the top of the 
cover which allows the excess of steam to escape. There is also a com- 
bination of fireless cooker and gas range which may be used as either 

* Extracts from thesis, 19 13. Senior Nonnal Work, School of Household Science 
and Arts, Pratt Institute. 



132 



The Journal oj Home Economics 



[April 



or both. It is built throughout of steel lined with monel metal. The 
main body outside is constructed of steel plate; between the lining of 
monel metal and the steel plate is a lining of asbestos while on either 
side of this the space is filled with mineral wool, a very good non- 
conductor of heat. The hood which covers one or more of the 
top burners and hangs from a balanced crane is lined with the same 
material. 

The manufacturers of the fireless cookers claim that by using them 
the cost of fuel can be reduced from five-eighths to nine- tenths; that 
pots are not difficult to wash; that food is better cooked; that time 
and labor are saved; and that hot kitchens are eliminated. 

To prove the truth or fallacy of these claims and to judge these 
appliances, in comparison with the gas range, as to economy of time 
and labor, and as to the palatability of products, the same articles of 
food were cooked in the gas range, the fireless cooker and the combi- 
nation gas range and fireless cooker with the following results: 



Stewed primes 
Bacon 



Breakfast 

Coffee 
Cooked with gas range 



Cream of wheat 
Hot biscuit 



ABTICLE 


TIME 


OAS USED 


LABOR 


RESULT 


Prunes 


ihr. 
lihr. 
IS min. 
i8 min. 
25 min. 


CU. ft. 
24 
30 

6 

7 
20 


All required 
watching 


Products excellent in 


Cereal 


appearance and pala- 
tability. 


Bacon 

Coffee 

Biscuit 



Total: 87 cubic feet gas used in preparing meal, 
the rate of $0.80 per 1000 cubic feet= $0.0696. 



Cost of fuel at 





Cooked with fireless cooker 




ARTICLE 


TIME OVER 
PLAME 


TIME IN 
FIRELESS 


OAS 
USEP 


LABOR 


RESULT 


Prunes 

Cereal 

Bacon (by gas) . . . 
Coffee 


10 min. 
10 min. 
IS min. 
18 min. 
radiators 
10 min. 


2 hrs. 
4 hrs. 

35 min- 


CU. ft. 

4 
4 
6 
7 
16 


Less than 
cooking 
meal by 
gas. 


Better in taste and 
appearance than 
same cooked by 
gas. 

Very well baked. 


Biscuit 





I9I4] 



A Comparison of Methods of Cooking 



^iZ 



Total: 37 cubic feet used in preparing meal (24 cubic feet used in 
preparation for fireless cooker; 13 cubic feet used for coffee and bacon). 
Cost of fuel = $0.0296. $0.0696 — $0.0296 = $0.04 saved by using 
fireless cooker. 87 cubic feet — 37 cubic feet = 40 cubic feet of gas 
saved. 40 is about four-ninths of 87; therefore amount of gas saved 
was about five-ninths. 



Cooked with combination 


las range and fireless 


cooker 


ARTICLE 


TIME OVER 
FLAME 


TIME IN 
FIRBLESa 


QAB 

USED 


LABOR 1 RESCLT 


Prunes 

Cereal 


10 min. 
10 min. 
15 min. 
18 min. 

10 min. 
2 burners 


2 hrs. 
4 hrs. 

35 min- 


CU.ft. 

3 
3 

4-S 
4.8 

8. 


Required no Equal to product 
attention from fireless 


Bacon 

Coffee 


after gas cooker, 
was turned 


Biscuit 


off. 


Equal to product 




from fireless 
cooker. 



Total: 23.3 cubic feet used. Cost of fuel = $0.01864. $0.0696 — 
$0.01864 = $0.05096 saved on cooking by gas, $0.0296 — $0.01864 = 
$0.01096 saved on using fireless. 87 cubic feet— 23.3 = 63.7 cubic 
feet gas less than range. 37 cubic feet- 23.3 = 13.7 cubic feet gas less 
than fireless. 23.3 is 23.3/87 or about one-fourth of 87, therefore 
about three-fourths of the fuel was saved by using the combination 
instead of a gas range. 

A second test was made in which a luncheon consisting of beef 
loaf, potatoes, mufl&ns, and apples was prepared in the three ways 
with the same degree of accuracy. The final results are summarized 
as follows: 

Saving over gas range cooking 



COHFART.SON BY MEALS 


FIRELESS 
COOKER 


COMBINATIOK 
COOKER 


Amount saved on two meals 


$0 . I 296 
.0648 


$0.1589 
.07Q? 


Average per meal 


Amount saved for three meals (one day) 


.1944 1 .2'?8<; 









Judging by these results it would take 93 days for an $18 fireless 
cooker to pay for itself, and 231 days for a $55 combination cooker to 
pay for itself. 



134 The Journal oj Home Economics [April 

Cereals have been called the most abused food for the reason that 
they are seldom cooked long enough. Used primarily as breakfast 
food they receive one-half to two-thirds hour's cooking. The fireless 
cooker and combination cooker are particularly adapted to the cook- 
ing of cereals for they may, in this way, receive four or five hours' 
cooking \\'ith less expenditure of gas, labor and care than are required 
for one-half hour's cooking over the flame. Oatmeal and rice were 
cooked in the three ways with the following results: Cost of fuel: 
gas range, $0.04; fireless cooker, $0.0076; combination cooker, $0,008. 

Products from the fireless cooker and combination cooker were 
equal in palatability, and, in the writer's opinion, both were better 
than the product from the gas stove. Labor and expense were least 
when the combination cooker was used. Bread was also baked in the 
three ways with a similar saving of gas. There was no apparent dif- 
ference in the loaves of bread baked in the three ways. They were of 
the same texture, were moist and very palatable. 

Judging by this experimental work the claims of the fireless cooker 
manufacturers would seem in general to be true. The cost of fuel 
was reduced five-eights or more. Pots were not as difficult to wash, 
as food did not stick. In every case, except boiling potatoes, the 
food was as well cooked as when done by gas. In the case of cereals 
and pnmes the product from the cooker was more desirable than that 
cooked by gas. Time and labor were saved (when radiators have to 
be heated and transferred to the cooker, the labor is about the same) 
and heat in the room was greatly reduced. 

A homemade fireless cooker which is both useful and practical may 
be made by anyone, with very Httle expense. A successful one was 
made by taking a well-made box 15 inches square and 9 inches high, 
and having a cover which slid into a groove. The bottom was then 
packed 2 inches deep with newspaper, crumpled up and made firm by 
pressing with weights, on top of that, in the middle of the box, was 
placed a regular aluminum fireless cooker utensil and around it was 
made a cylinder of cardboard. The utensil was then removed, leaving 
a well of cardboard. A piece of cardboard was placed at the base of 
the well to form a bottom, then more newspaper was packed securely 
aroimd the well, pressed down with weights and left for several days; 
then paper was again packed in until the box could hold no more. On 
top of the paper and around the well was placed another piece of 
cardboard, which really formed a box around the well and the paper. 
The utensil then slipped easily into the well and was partially insu- 



1914] Related Subject Matter in Courses of Sewing 135 

lated on three sides by from 2 to 3 inches of well packed newspaper. 
To cover the top, a cushion was made of lawn and into it was stuffed 
fold after fold of cheese cloth. When the cushion and the wooden 
cover were on, the insulation was excellent. Cereals (hominy and 
oatmeal) were cooked by gas, each for ten minutes, then transferred 
to the cooker and left about four hours. They were then well cooked 
— in fact, equally as well as in the commercial fireless cooker. In 
each case 5.5 cubic feet of gas was burned, the cost for 5.5 cubic 
feet being $0.0044. If the homemade cooker were used only for 
cooking cereals and boiled meats it would still be worth while, as the 
cost and labor of building a cooker are comparatively small. 

Cost of the homemade fireless cooker 

Box given by any grocer 

Cardboard $0.05 

Utensil (aluminum) i . 00 

Cheese cloth o. 15 

Lawn 0.08 

I1.28 

This cost might easily be reduced one-half by using an enameled or 
granite-ware utensil, instead of one made of aluminum. 



A STUDY OF TEXTILES AS A PART OF THE RELATED 
SUBJECT MATTER IN COURSES OF SEWING 

Florence Buchanan 

Instructor in Sewing, Pratt Institute 

The subject of textiles in the elementary school has been so com- 
pletely adjusted in relation to the handwork and sewing courses that it 
Qow covers the study of both clothing and household fabrics from the 
view point of history, geography, design, and, in the higher grades, 
hygiene also. Handwork is the medium in the lower grades, calling 
into action the larger muscles; while sewing is the medium after the 
finer muscular development and control are completed. One may be 
thought of as paving the way for the other, and the intellectual de- 
velopment that accompanies the one is simply continued by the other. 
The children in the lower grades, while making simple, often pdmitive 
articles, are given a logical sense of the textile arts as race activities, 
and live again, to some extent, through the evolution of these activi- 



136 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

ties, which has brought the race to its present culture. Parallel with 
this historic side, something of the geography of the country is learned 
in the study of the sources of the various materials handled. An ap- 
preciation of form and color, as well as the relation of design to ma- 
terials, tools, and methods of work are sought for in the teaching of 
advanced elementary work. 

Since all of these aspects can not be dealt with in a short time, this 
limited paper \nll be confined to a side of the textile arts that is perhaps 
least considered, and one that is related more especially to sewing, 
namely, the economic side of textiles. As one of the modern educators 
has said, "Education for the people must include all of what life calls 
for as well as the pure intellectual process aimed at, the complete moral, 
physical and intellectual development. " At present, a girl who has re- 
ceived a fairly thorough training in sewing, often knows Uttle about 
eflScient buying. This necessary knowledge when gained through 
experience means loss of time and money during the learning, while the 
textile course can furnish it easily and directly. And a girl who is pre- 
pared to consider intelligently the economic side of textiles, as well as 
their history and design, is better prepared to meet the problems of 
her individual life. 

This question of what to buy and how to buy it, falls into the textile 
subject matter related to seeing taught in the upper grades, or in the 
high school, where the aim is the making of clothing. The underwear 
class offers, perhaps, the first opportunity for its presentation. Here 
the various staple materials that can be used in the construction of 
musHn underwear should be considered, and the characteristics of 
each discussed. This discussion if it is to be of any lasting benefit 
must be illustrated with full width samples of the materials, so that the 
children can handle them and learn to associate the name, appearance, 
and feel of each. Many of the class will no doubt have heard the terms 
nainsook, cambric, and long cloth at home, but most of them will rea- 
lize for the first time the softness of one, the glazed surface of another. 
A comparison of the costs of the different materials is, of course, im- 
portant. Each student can see for herself, if the prices are marked on 
the samples, that nainsook costs more per yard than the same grade of 
cambric, but with no past experience for a guide, she cannot possibly 
look ahead far enough to see that the difference in costs is even greater 
than the numerical indication. Therefore, some idea of the wearing 
qualities of each fabric should be given and then the final cost of each 
estimated. 



1 9 14] Related Subject Matter in Courses of Sewing 137 

A talk of this same kind related to the textiles used in the making of 
outer garments will have to include color, dealt with from the economic 
side, namely the comparative permanence of varous dyes and colors 
both in regard to fading and also to "running" when laundered. Cer- 
tain colors are in a class known as "light fugitives." The student 
should know which these are so that she may discriminate when buy- 
ing. Experimental tests can supplement this work. The difference 
in wear between printed and yarn-dyed fabrics is practical information 
worth knowing, and in giving this, some methods of textile manufac- 
ture will incidentally be introduced. Simple tests for detecting adul- 
teration in fabrics should be demonstrated. This will also be the 
means of introducing a little chemistry or of applying, if in a high 
school, what is given in the regular chemistry course. 

If discussions of this kind could precede the making of each garment, 
and the advice that Comenius gave, "Let the things that have to be 
done be learned by doing them," were then applied by the student in 
the purchase of material for this garment, the subject of textiles in re- 
lation to the sewing course would be far more vital. 

There is still another side to the economics of textiles in relation to 
sewing. This is the wardrobe as a whole. The school girl has very 
little idea of what kind of clothing is suitable and practical, or does she 
know how to plan an efficient wardrobe that will still contain the mini- 
mum number of garments. Girls that are old enough to be given talks 
on this subject are just about at that age when they emulate some lead- 
er among them. They imitate not only her clothes, but even her walk, 
and her way of talking does not escape them. If this leader comes 
from a home where her clothes are sensibly planned, very good; this 
imitation then does no harm; but if she is a leader who wears large 
frillings, lace jabots, beribboned underwear, and silk petticoats, the 
effect on the others is disastrous. No amount of reasoning or explain- 
ing in their own homes will convince these girls that such clothing is 
not only poor economy but poor taste as well. Right here lectures 
from the textile instructor on the harmonious relation that should 
exist between fabrics and their place in a wardrobe, might work won- 
ders. As Ida Tarbell has so aptly put it in her recent volume "The 
Business of Being a Woman," "The folly of woman's dress lies not in 
her instinct to make herself beautiful, it lies in her ignorance of the 
principles of beauty, of the intimate and essential connection between 
utility and beauty. It lies in the pitiful assumption that she can be 
the thing she envies if she looks like that thing. " 



138 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

Then too large a number of each kind of garment is an economic 
drain and needs attention. This will apply generally to underwear, 
and will be directed mainly at unnecessary buying, and at buying new 
garments before the old are completely worn out, which means event- 
ually a quantity of half- worn articles, too good to throw away and yet 
rather shabby after all. 

Many of these remarks may seem rather remote from the thought 
of textiles as it is at present held; but the need of education along the 
lines suggested by them \A\\ not be doubted, if the clothes of the av- 
erage school girl are analyzed, especially those of the high school girl. 
Of course, some of the ideas might be assembled into special lectures, 
but the textile instructor has the opportunity of covering the ground 
from the viewpoint of economy, utility, and beauty, and can do it in 
an intimate yet impersonal way. 

This is a plea for the extension of the study of textiles until it in- 
cludes the economic side as well as the historic and design sides in its 
relation to sewing. 

REPORT ON HOUSING CONDITIONS AND DIET OF 
HIGH SCHOOL PUPILS AT VEVAY. INDIANA 

Under the auspices of the Indiana State Board of Health, a survey 
of the U\dng conditions of pupils who "room" in town during the 
school term was made in April, 1913, by Dr. Ada E. Schweitzer, 
Assistant Bacteriologist of the Board. 

It is a common custom for pupils from the coimtry to "room" and 
"board themselves" when they attend the high school in some town 
near their home. The report which is given below essentially as it 
appeared in a publication of the Indiana State Board of Health^ is 
therefore of general interest and the more valuable since studies of 
such matters are much needed, the whole question being one deserving 
of serious consideration. 

It seems to be the beHef ot parents either that supervision is a part 
of the landlady's duty or that the yoimg people are able to "take 
care of themselves." Whatever may have been the case in former 
times, the justifiable importance now generally attached to social 
considerations makes one realize that for these young people who are 
leaving home for the first time some better plan is needed for safe- 

1 Mo. Bui. Indiana State Bd. Health, 16, 1913, no. 6, p. 217. 



1914] Housing and Diet of High School Pupils 139 

guarding them in their social relations, as well as in their health, com- 
fort, housing, and diet. There is a growing appreciation in colleges 
and universities of the importance of housing and feeding problems. 
It is realized that domaitories, college commons, boarding houses, and 
eating clubs cannot be expected to run themselves without adequate 
standards and without general supervision. The matter is equally 
important in boarding schools and village and town schools attended 
by pupils who do not live at home. School lunch work, valuable as 
it is, is only a step in the right direction. Much more extended work 
is needed before we can understand existing conditions and formulate 
standards and practice which will lead to the much needed better 
things. According to Dr. Schweitzer: 

Vevay, Switzerland County, Indiana, is an "old" town on the Ohio River, with 
old houses, old families, etc. The town has electric lights and water supply which 
are connected mostly with the better homes, but no municipal sewerage system 
exists. Private sewers are regulated by ordinance. Garbage disposal is not uni- 
form nor as a rule sanitary. The population is 1256. 

The school buildings are substantial but inadequate. They will be improved 
and new buildings erected during the summer. Officials, school board and teach- 
ers are progressive and efficient. The school has a strong chorus, orchestra, ath- 
letic associations, and other organizations. The Parent-Teacher's Club of the 
town is well organized and devoted to the best interests of the young people. 

Four rooming houses were examined. One had no foimdation, was shabby and 
badly warped, and the second story was low. One house had electric lights. 
House no. i represents the average. The foundation wall is low, the basement 
dry, the house a large square frame building, frontmg even with the street. The 
rooms are high and well lighted, the second floor reached by broad front stairs and 
by narrow, steep back stairs. The latter are used by roomers. Four rooms on the 
second floor are rented to students, a front room and a back room to each group. 
The front rooms are large, high and well lighted, having two large windows facing 
the street. The back rooms are smaller, have sloping roof, and are well lighted. 
The night light is that of a large coal oil lamp and is a good light. Two south 
rooms are occupied by four girls. The front room is divided by curtains, the light 
part being used for a living and study room, the curtained recess for a bed-room. 
Two beds placed side by side for four girls are too close for health, even with the 
curtains drawn back at night and the windows wide open. A two-plate laundry 
stove is used for heating, sometimes for cooking. Cooking is usually done on a 
gasoline stove. There is suflBcient plain furniture and the rooms are neatly kept. 
There are no decorations. Lace curtains filter the dust from the street air. There 
is no bath room, but an out-door privy. This group of girls have a regular pro- 
gram for sleep, study, meals, and recreation. They bring provisions from home 
and cook regularly, but the meals are not always well balanced as to food value. 
Perishable foods are kept in the landlady's refrigerator. Garbage is thrown on 
the ash heap. The general health of the girls appears to be good. They are known 
as "quiet home bodies." The girls are allowed to entertain young men in the 



140 The Journal oj Home Economics [April 

parlor do^-nstairs. The north rooms are similar to the south, with better furnish- 
ings, but not so well kept. The windows are never open, and the air is heavy and 
odorous. The tenant is a girl who sleeps late, cooks irregularly, often going with- 
out breakfast. She eats cheese, crackers, cakes, etc., rather than prepare meals 
and has chronic indigestion. She is very irregular in school attendance, and "slips 
through" grades. Her habits are said to be due to laxness in management at 
home. She needs sympathetic supervision and firm discipline. These two groups 
show the extremes. Several instances were found where lictle cooking was done. 
One energetic girl cooked for three brothers, but did not understand food values. 
Garbage was usually thrown on the ash heap or out to chickens. In a few cases 
it was burned. Some rooms were well kept, others "cleaned up by spells." As 
a rule the girls entertained their young men friends in the family parlor. How- 
ever, a few of the irresponsible sort were inclined to take advantage of the lack 
of direct supervision and to disregard convention if not discretion. Elder girls 
refused to "tell" on younger sisters and landladies did not wish to assume the 
task of exercising a discipline which in many cases had been unsuccessful in the 
home. Some lacked tact and others had no difficulty in enforcing such rules as 
they chose to make. The parents seemed to feel that, when they came to town in 
the fall, and from the room? available selected the ones best adapted to the needs 
of their children, and then furnished them at frequent intervals with the best fresh 
food the country afforded, they were doing all that could be expected of them. 

A meeting of all persons interested was called by the Parent-Teachers' Club to 
disseminate information and to discuss plans for the improvement of these condi- 
tions. There were present, parents, teachers, preachers, landladies, members of 
the school board, and high school pupils. Discussion was given from the viewpoint 
of each. For the improvement of the situation two plans were presented, one 
being the establishment of r. dormitory with a matron in charge in a large dwelling 
house nearby. The young folk were to rent and furnish their rooms and to pay 
for the cost of service. Each was to be credited at market price with whatever 
food was brought from home. A few might assist with the work. Study rooms 
and recreation rooms were to be provided. The success of this plan seemed to 
hinge on the choice of a matron. 

A second plan was the establishment of a cottage system in connection with 
the Vocational and Domestic Science work at the school. Each cottage was to 
house six and to be in charge of a matron and a department teacher at the school. 
Each group was to work out successively and in a practical way a series of problems 
to be proposed in the regular course of study. This plan was favorably received, 
the only handicap being a lack of funds. So far as had been ascertained no other 
high school in the state has even considered in a practical way the housing condi- 
tions of high school pupils. The talk by your representative was requested for 
the purpose of arousing general interest in the subject and of creating public sen- 
timent favorable to some plan in the interest of the entire community. Discus- 
sion and comment indicated that the desired purpose was accomplished. 

Investigations similar to those in Indiana are being made in Wis- 
consin, as reported by the Wisconsin Journal of Education:'^ 

^Wisconsin Jour. Ed. 46, 1914, no. i, p. 4. 



19 1 4] School Credit for Home Work 141 

The Wisconsin Teachers' Agency at its last meeting appointed a committee to 
study the question of providing proper home facilities for non-resident pupils in 
high schools. This is a movement in the right direction. There is great need in 
many commimities for better home facilities for high school boys and girls. In 
certain places we have visited, young boys and girls are not properly safe-guarded 
in their physical, social, or moral liie in the cities or villages in which they are 
attending school. They find their home in a hit or miss way; and then they are 
not looked after properly by people who have a personal interest in them, or who 
are officially appointed to keep track of them. 

VVe were looking over the high school in a small city last winter, and we learned 
that a third or so of the pupils in the school had come from a distance, and most 
of them were staying in the city from ^Monday morning until Friday night. We 
heard some of these pupils talk about their experiences in the city, and one or 
two of them gave the impression that they had no home life. Their living quarters 
were not suitable for young people attending school; and they could go and come as 
they chose, and no one would be any the wiser for it. Conditions were probably 
particularly unfavorable in this small city; but they are not likely to be whoUy 
satisfactory in any place unless special effort is made to find agreeable homes in 
which the boys and girls will be looked after in a personal way by people who are 
interested in them. 

If the committee appointed to study this matter can suggest a feasible plan for 
providing real home life for non-resident high-school pupils it will mark a big 
advance in the high school work in the smaller commimities in this state, and even 
in some of the larger ones where the high schools have many pupils from abroad. 



SCHOOL CREDIT FOR HOME WORK IN 
HOME ECONOMICS 

Grace Schermerhorn 
Director in Home Economics, Iowa State College 

This plan for home credit was first worked out by the Home Eco- 
nomics teachers of the Iowa State College, with help and suggestions 
from the superintendent of the Ames public schools. It was then 
discussed in each Parent-Teachers Association in the town. The 
town people were much interested. They criticized freely, gave many 
good suggestions, and promised their most hearty cooperation. 

After much discussion the final plan was made and put into prac- 
tice. This is the first year the system has been used, and so we can- 
not say that it has worked well, but we can say most enthusiastically 
that it is working well. The college practice teaching in Home Eco- 
nomics is done in the Ames city schools, under the direction of the 
department of Education of the College. 



1^2 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

The purpose of giving school credit for home work is to bring the 
school and home into closer relation. We hope it may prove an 
incentive for the girl to do, at home, some of the things that she has 
learned at school. In this way she may carry into the home some 
new ways of working, and there will be an exchange of ideas between 
mother and daughter, as to the hows and whys of so doing, that will 
result beneficially to both. As the girl carries these ideas and dis- 
coveries back into the school we shall be able to know becter the 
needs of her home and social life, and hence to so plan our work that 
it may "carry over" into her out-of-school life. 

To be successful this home-school work requires the best interest 
and cooperation of the girl's family. This interest and cooperation 
we ask for in order that the school may most closely meet the needs 
of the child. 

The plan at present provides for the following credits: 

A total of 2 credits may be earned by home work in Home Economics, the value 
of I credit being 300 points. These credits will apply on high school graduation. 
Fractional credit will be given for part work. 

Enough work must be done to make i credit in order to have the work apply 
.on high school graduation. 

The work may extend throughout the student's four year high school course. 

General work should be reported each month, records kept each week. 

A grade of 75, or " fair," is necessary for credit. 

Cookery 

The total for cookery is f credit — 200 points. In each case the 
family recipe must be used (enough to serve six) and whenever possible 
a sample of the product brought to school for examination. The 
recipes, stating method and giving itemized cost, together with a 
statement from the guardian or parent saying the entire work was 
done by the girl, must accompany each dish brought in. Blanks will 
be provided for this. 

Grading is to be made on the following: (a) appearance of the fin- 
ished product, (b) taste, and (c) texture. In grading bread or cake 
the score card given to the class will be used, and product brought to 
school and marked by the teacher. 

To girls who are taking, or who have completed, first year cookery, 
<| credit — 100 points — will be given for 15 of the following dishes: 

Some fresh vegetable cooked and served in a white sauce 

Potatoes in some form 

Tapioca 



1914] School Credit for Uome Work 143 

Rice 

Macaroni 

Muffins 

*Baking powder biscuit 
*Plain cake, with or without frosting 
*Drop cookies 
•Rolled cookies 
*Pastry 
•Gelatine with soft custard 

Cottage cheese 

Scalloped dish 

Custard, or some kind of custard pudding (bread, rice, tapioca) 

Steamed brown bread 

^Prune whip \q^^ ^^ ^^^^^ required, the other chosen 
Marguerites J 
Fondant candies 

Salad with cooked or French dressing 
•Sandwiches — three kinds of filling 
•Bread 
•Baked beans 
The ten starred dishes are required, and each receives 7 points credit; the other 
five may be chosen, and each receives 6 points credit. 

To girls who are taking, or have completed, second year cookery, 
^ credit — 100 points — will be given for 15 of the following dishes: 

•Canned fruit \q^^ ^^ ^^^^ required, the other chosen. 

Preserves J 

Pickles 
•JeUy 
•Bread 

•Parker House rolls 
•Sponge or angel cake 

Salad with mayonnaise ser\-ed with some made salad wafer 
•Cooking 2 fresh vegetables 
•Roast meat 

Broiled steak 

Breaded chop 

Meat stew with dimiplings 
•Meat substitutes — one dish required, one dish chosen. 

Creamed soups 

Two left-over dishes. Tell what you would serve with this dish to make 
a good luncheon or supper dish for your family 

Frozen dessert 
•Light dessert 
•Heavy dessert 

Boiled diimer 
The ten starred dishes are required, and each receives 7 points credit; the other 
five may be chosen, and each receives 6 points credit. 



144 The Journal oj Home Economics [April 

General 

The total for general housework is f credits— 200 points; work 
carried on for 8 months receives \ credit — 100 points; work carried 
on for 16 months receives f credit — 200 points. The general work 
consists of the following: 

1. Making girl's own bed each day, 3 points for 4 weeks. 

2. Daily and weekly care of one bedroom, preferably girl's own room, 45 

points for 4 weeks. 

3. Helping with general housework one-half hour each day (sweeping, dust- 

ing, ironing, washing dishes, washing windows, etc.), 3 points for 4 weeks. 

4. Helping with general housework one hour on Saturdays, 2 points for 4 

weeks. 

The total credits for general work are i2| points for i month. One 
task must be done for four weeks in order to get any credit. 

Sewing. 

The total for sewing is f credit — 200 points: any work may be 
chosen and credit will be given up to 200 points. To girls who are 
taking, or who have completed, first year sewing, \ credit — 100 points 
— will be given from the following list: 

Points 

Night gown 50 

Drawers 50 

Corset cover 50 

Chemise 50 

Underskirt 50 

Darning 25 

Mending 25 

Child's apron 25 

Child's dress 50 

To girls who are taking, or who have completed, second year sewing, 
\ credit — 100 points — will be given from the following list: 

Points 

Princess slip 50 

House dress '. 75 

Shirt waist 50 

Woolen skirt 75 

Made-over dress 75 

Nice dress 100 



1914] School Credit for Home Work 145 

In all sewing the finished article is to be brought to school for 
examination, and it will be graded according to score cards used in 
the class. Girls have score cards in their note books, or they may 
be procured from the teacher. 

Additional sewing and hand work may be done by arrangement 
with the teacher, who will decide points to be given for work. 

CREDIT FOR HOME WORK AT ST. CLOUD, MINNESOTA' 

The Board of Education in St. Cloud, Minn., recent!} adopted a 
plan for giving credit for outside work toward graduation from the 
high school. The purpose of the plan is to unite the home and the 
school; to connect the work of the school with the life going on out- 
side; and to encourage the pupils to spend a part of their spare time 
at some useful occupation. It is hoped that the plan will direct their 
work in a measure toward everyday, practical tasks; will train them 
for service, not merely help them in the acquisition of knowledge; 
and that they will become better fitted to meet the actual conditions 
around them, and for complete living. The ideal toward which all 
such work tends is industrial, social, and home efficiency. 

The arrangements of credits for gaining the high school diploma 
are as follows: 

Sixteen units are required for graduation, at least 15 of which shall be regular 
school credits. One credit may be granted for systematic and definite home or 
continuation work as outlined below. 

Seventeen units are required for graduation with credit, two of which may be 
for home or continuation work. Standings must average pass plus or above 80. 

Eighteen or more units are required for graduation with honor, three of which 
may be for home or continuation work. Standings must average pass double 
plus or above 90. 

Pupils may graduate on the old plan, with 16 or more regular school units. 
To graduate with credit on this basis an average standing of pass plus must be 
obtained, and for graduation with honor, standmg must average pass double 
plus. 

Outside Work 

The following outside work when properly certified will receive credit as indi- 
cated: Regular weekly piano, violin, comet, pipe organ or voice lessons, under 
an accredited instructor, \ unit per year for a period not to exceed four years; 
active membership in any high school or approved city musical organization, J 
unit per year; high school glee club or chorus work, \ unit per year (credit for 
music work is limited to i^ units); literary society work, or rhetoricals, debate, 
public speaking or expressive reading, \ unit per year; granite or paving block cut- 

' Reprinted from Manual Training Magazine, xv, 1913, no. 2, December. 



146 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

ting, or work in any of the local trades, shops, factories or industries, \ unit for 
each summer vacation; clerking in store, bank, bindery, publishing house or office, 
J unit for three months; steady work on a farm, followed by a satisfactory essay 
on some agricultural subject, \ unit for three months; horticulture, gardening, 
poultry raising or bee culture with essay, \ imit for one season; raising one-fourth 
of an acre of onions, tomatoes, strawberries or celery, one acre of potatoes, two 
acres of pop com, five acres of com or alfalfa, j xmit; running a split road drag 
or doing other forms of road building for three months, \ unit; judging, with a 
degree of accuracy, the different tj-pes of horses, cattle and hogs, \ unit; selecting, 
drying and testing seed com, | imit; faithful definite work in the home, with well 
written essay on suitable topic, \ imit for three months; china painting, oil painting, 
crayon, burnt wood, art needle work or other handicraft or home decoration work, 
with exhibit, \ imit; three months' employment in a dressmaking establishment, 
\ unit; three months' employment as nurse, \ unit; three months' summer vacation 
travel, with written description, \ unit; "See Minnesota First" trip under approved 
instructor, with essay, \ unit. 

Home Tasks 

The following home tasks when well done and certified by parent or guardian 
will represent 5 of one unit or credit: Shingling or painting the house or bam; 
making a canoe or boat; swimming 300 feet at one continuous performance; install- 
ing three or more electrical conveniences in your mother's home; taking sole care 
of an automobile for one season; preparing one meal alone daily for three months; 
baking the bread for three months; cooking meat and eggs three ways and making 
three kinds of cake, with exhibit; making beds daily for three months; doing the 
laundry work weekly for three months; making a waist, dress or night-gown or 
other wearing apparel or articles for the home; making a hat or cap; keeping a 
flower garden, with ten choice varieties of flowers; recognizing and describing 
twenty different native birds, trees and flowers; sleeping for one year in the open 
air or with open window; keeping a systematic savings bank account for one year, 
with regular monthly deposits. 

SCORE CARDS 

A number ol score cards have been received in response to the request 
in the February Journal. It is hoped that more will be sent. 

The following definitions and scores were prepared by Louise 
Stanley and May C. McDonald for use at the Missouri Home Makers' 
Conference. 

Canned Goods 

In the canned product we should aim to have fruit retain as nearly 
as possible its original shape and flavor. In the case of canned fruits 
the natural flavor of the fruit should not be hidden by the use of too 
much sugar In general the percentage of sugar used should be the 
same as that found in the juice of the fruit. 



1914] Score Cards 147 

Score card for canned fruit 
Fruit: 

Shape 15 

Color IS 

Flavor 30 

Juice : 

Flavor 15 

Clearness and consistency 15 

Proportion of fruit to juice 10 

100 
Score card for canned vegetables 

Flavor of vegetable 35 

Condition of vegetable 35 

Proportion of vegetable to juice 20 

General appearance 10 

ICO 

Jelly, Preserves, etc. 

"Ideal fruit jelly is a beautifully colored, transparent, palatable prod- 
uct obtained by so treating fruit juice that the resulting mass will 
quiver, not flow when removed from its mold; a product with texture so 
tender that it cuts easily with a spoon, and yet so firm that the angles 
thus produced retain their shape; a clear product that is neither syrupy, 
gummy, sticky, nor tough; neither is it brittle, yet it will break, and 
does this with a distinct, beautiful cleavage which leaves sparkling 
characteristic faces." This definition is given by Miss Goldthwaite 
in "Principles of Jelly Making."^ 

The essential differences between preserves, jams, marmalades and 
butters are nowhere very clearly defined. Preserves, from the mean- 
ing of the word, originally meant the cooking of definite quantities of 
fruit and sugar, usually equal quantities, to such a consistency that 
the mass would keep without being hermetically sealed, that is, the 
concentration of sugar present would be sufi5cient to prevent the 
growth of any organisms. In preserves as the name also indicates, an 
attempt is also made to have the fruit keep as nearly as possible its 
original appearance and shape, and the effect of cooking in the sugar 
solution makes the fruit appear clear. In the preserves we can dis- 
tinguish two essentially different parts, the fruit and the juice. 

Jams differ from preserves in that, though the whole fruit is usually 
used, it is crushed in the juice so as to produce a homogeneous mixture. 
As a rule only the small fruits are utilized in jam making, for only in 

'Principles of Jelly Making, U. of III. Bid., vol. vii, no. 7. 



1^8 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

these are we able to use the whole fruit. When we discard the seed 
and all or part of the skin the resulting product is a marmalade or but- 
ter. In a butter the pulp only is used and it is usually strained to re- 
move any Imnps and to distribute the pulp evenly through the juice. 
In a marmalade part of the peel or skin may be left in, and there are 
distinguishable two distinct portions, the clear juice and the particles 
of fruit. 

The test as to when done should be, especially in cases where there is 
any tendency to jelly, the same as for jelly. 

Score card for jdly 

Color 10 

Transparency 20 

Taste 2S 

Consistency: 

Hold shai>e, not flow 15 

Tender, will cut easily 15 

Firm, angles retain shape 5 

No signs of crj'stallization 10 

100 
Score card for preserves 

Fruit: 

Shape: 10 

Clearness and color 10 

Flavor 15 

Texture 10 

Juice: 

Clearness and color 10 

Flavor 15 

Consistency 10 

Proportion of juice 20 

100 
Score card for jams 

Homogeneity (even distributing of pulp and juice and seed) 30 

Consistency 30 

Flavor 30 

Color 10 

100 

Score card for butters 

Smoothness 30 

Consistency 30 

Flavor 30 

Color 10 

100 



1914] Score Cards 149 

Score card for marmalades 

Homogeneity 15 

Consistency 25 

Clearness 20 

Flavor 25 

Color 15 

100 

The follow-ing score cards were prepared by Martha T. Brll, for grad- 
ing her senior classes in household arts and in domestic sanitation. 
The work was carried out in Demonstration Cottage and a borrowed 
house, for the College of Industrial Arts, Denton, Texas. 

Scare card for household management 

I. Executive ability 20 

Business basis (First things first) 8 

Initiative 6 

Ability to assemble things as in a meal 6 

II. Systematization 15 

Division of labor — certain work for certain hours or days 5 

Division of time — plan work for whole week, thus getting broad view 

of the whole scheme 5 

Division of income. (As income was set amount, apportioning for dif- 
ferent meals or guest days was the only item considered here) 5 

III. Economy 10 

Time — waste through lack of concentration 3^ 

a. Dawdling at window without purpose 

b. Useless steps. 

Energy 3J 

a. Unnecessary manipulations, as in dusting, sweeping, moving 

chairs 

b. Using too many utensils 

c. Standing w hen one could be seated 

Materials 3^ 

a. Using larger measures than needed 

b. Throwing away or leaving food in utensils 

c. Burning 

IV. Cleanliness and neatness 15 

Rooms, furniture, utensils, linen 6 

Manipulations 3 

Person, clothes 6 

V.Industry 20 

Sense of values or first things first 8 

Persistence 6 

Speed 6 

VI. Information 20 



i^o The Journal of Home Economics [April 

Score card for ideal house 

I. Location 20 

Character of neighborhood 

Elevation 

Adjacent streets and alleys; what wastes? 

Presence of smoke, dust, odors 

II. Grounds 10 

Yard, front and back 
Presence of wastes, inorganic 
Care and disposal of wastes, organic, inorganic 
in. House 

A. Heating system ic 

Economic view point 

Sanitary view point 
Aesthetic view point 

B. Ventilation 10 

.\£fected by construction 

Affected by fumishmgs 
Affected by adjacent buildings 

C. Lighting 10 * 

Natural; affected by 

a. Construction 3 

b. Furnishings 2 

Artificial 

a. Efficient 1^ 

b. Sanitary I2 

c. Aesthetic ..^ i 

d. Economic 1 

D. Water supply 15 

Purity affected by 

a. Source 

b. Habits of household 

E. Rqpms 25 

Construction 15 

Furnishings S 

Care .' S 

Score card for cooking lesson 

Hypothesis: Perfect concentration followed by the resultant, comprehen- 
sion, evidenced in 

I. General methods 50 

Perfect measurements 10 

Perfect use of utensib 5 

Perfect manipulations 5 

Perfect results through attention to processes as baking, freezing, 
etc., shown in flavor, form, and color of product 30 



19 14] School for Housemaids in Denmark 151 

n. Food preparation 50 

Waste of materials 10 

a. Under or ov^ercooking 

b. Throwing in garbage can 

c. Running over 

d. Leaving in utensil 

Waste of time 10 

a. Useless manipulations 

b. Useless steps, dallying 

c. Doing last things first 

Waste of energy 10 

Useless movements, as opening oven, walking, etc. 

Neatness — desks, dishes, manipulations 10 

System and quiet work 10 



THE SCHOOL FOR HOUSEMAIDS IN DENMARK 

George Nestler Trioche 

The need of well-trained servants is as keenly felt, nowadays, in 
Europe as in America. The only difference between the old world 
and the new, in this respect, seems to be that in the United States 
higher wages are paid for poorer service. The trouble everywhere 
is that housemaids and cooks do not receive a suitable training and 
have often no way to acquire it. In Denmark at a time when people 
were less busy, or rather less hurried, a great many yoimg girls were 
instructed in domestic science, little by Uttle, on the farms or in small 
country homes, by good and patient housewives. They were willing 
to receive a very moderate compensation, or none at all, for the sake 
of making their apprenticeship. This is now a thing of the past. 
The prospective housemaid, like everyone else, wants to make money 
as quickly as possible. As serv^ants are always in demand, she seeks, 
and generally has no trouble in obtaining a situation for which she 
has little or no qualification. 

Since home training no more exists, the only way out of the difficulty 
is the professional school. It is hoped that the competition of grad- 
uates from such establishments will soon obhge the rank and file of 
servants to join the school or else to be satisfied with a smaller salary 
— that of the unskilled. 

In Denmark, this remedy is already out of the experimental stage. 
It should be noticed that the first efforts toward a regular, systematic 
training were made by servants themselves. The Servants' Associa- 
tion foimded at Copenhagen in 1901, opened five years later a pro- 



1^2 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

fessional school under the auspices of several wealthy and influential 
ladies of the place, 15,000 francs (about $2884) being devoted to 
the organization and maintenance of the establishment. At first, a 
single floor was rented in an oflice building but it was soon necessary 
to move to larger quarters. 

In 1913, there were eighteen pupils in the Copenhagen School, 
divided into three classes: cooking, general housework, washing and 
ironing. The course lasts six months, but pupils pass every week 
from one class to another; for instance, after seven days spent in the 
cooking class, they are sent to the housework class for another week, 
then to the laundry, and come back to the first class on the fourth 
week. 

In the cooking class, they have to prepare and serve a two or three 
course meal for six people, and do the marketing for it. And mar- 
keting in Denmark is what Americans would call "the real thing." 
It does not mean the ordering by "phone" of goods which one sees 
only when they are brought home, too late to be sent back if not sat- 
isfactory; it means going out, in any kind of weather, choosing foods 
oneself, bargaining on the market place with truck gardeners or fish- 
mongers, and bringing the purchases home in a basket. The course 
in the housework class implies learning the care of two rooms and a 
waitress' duties. In the laundry class, pupils w^ash, iron and mend 
their own clothes. When the course of six months is completed, the 
girls who have passed the examination are granted a diploma. 

At the beginning, there were no charges for tuition, but in 1910 it 
was deemed necessary to require a fee of 10 crowns (about $2.70) 
per month. Since 1906, 194 pupils have graduated. Since the asso- 
ciation opened a supplementary course for cooks and another for 
lady's maids (for 305 and 27 pupils respectively), the total number of 
girls taught in the Copenhagen School has increased to 526. Finan- 
cially, the institution like other philanthropic undertakings, is not a 
success. The annual deficit is made up, chiefly, by subsidies from the 
state and the city ($534 each, per year). Lately, this school has 
opened a small restaurant where from 70 to 80 people take their 
breakfast or noon meal every day. "Outside washing" is also ac- 
cepted by the laundry department; and cakes, bread, and deUcatessen 
made by the cooking classes are now sold to the public. In that 
manner, the deficit was, in 1913, reduced to about $1480. It is said 
that other cities are contemplating the opening of schools similar 
to that of Copenhagen. 



1914] Work of General Federation of Women's Clubs 153 

THE WORK OF THE HOME ECONOMICS DEPART- 
MENT, GENERAL FEDERATION OF 
WOMEN'S CLUBS 

Helen Louise Johnson 

Prof. Simon Patten has said that "the battle for reform is more than 
half won when a substantial number of people use the same terms in 
talking of it. We see as individuals. We socialize as we use a common 
language." The unsocialized condition of Home Economics can be 
illustrated by the experience of the chairman of this department who 
was graduated from the domestic science department of one college and 
studied in the household administration department of another. She 
then taught in the household science department of a college, going 
from there to the domestic economy department of a college in the same 
state, and returning to an eastern college to open a department of 
Home Economics. Should she now return to her original college she 
would be in the School of Household Arts. This is an absurdity, and 
explains much of the misunderstanding of this educational movement. 

The members of the American Home Economics Association must 
know that the recommendation of the committee appointed from that 
body and the National Educational Association was for the universal 
adoption of Home Economics as being the most comprehensive name 
for this body of subjects. 

We know of no greater assistance which could be given this cause all 
over the country than for the leaders and teachers of Home Economics 
to read and adopt the recommendation of that committee on nomen- 
clature and thereby estabUsh at least a common basis of understand- 
ing in relation to terms. The American Home Economics Association 
must do this, for no one group of teachers, no one state, no one person, 
can make much impression. It is a question of socializing; a matter 
of reform, and upon it much depends. 

In October a letter was sent from this committee to the presidents 
of all state federations whose annual meetings occurred this fall. This 
letter requested action on four things. The first among these was 
the adoption of the name Home Economics in the State depart- 
ments of this character, in order that the clubs of each state may 
be urged to use, for this group of subjects, the uniform name which has 
been approved by the American Home Economics Association and 
others of like character. The response to this was immediate and 
general, many of the states voting to change the name from household 
to Home Economics as suggested. 



1^4 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

We are now about to send this request to the dubs in general in 
order to pave the way for that better understanding of the scope and 
meanmg of Home Economics, which it is hoped will result in work of a 
more uniform character and grade throughout our public schools. 

It should be unnecessary to explain the great need of compulsory 
education of this character in the grades. Only about i per cent of the 
girls and boys of this great country go to college. Some lo per cent 
are able to go through high school. About 90 per cent leave school 
at the end of the compulsory age. This means that the majority of 
girls attending our public schools leave school for work of some char- 
acter at the ages of thirteen to sixteen, and even younger. Many of 
these children have no opportunity whatever for learning good meth- 
ods of carrying on those activities on which the home depends, un- 
less they can be taught in school. There is no use in citing the old 
argument that girls should learn to cook, and to sew, and to clean, 
and to wash dishes, and to make beds in the home. Whatever 
they should do, they no longer learn those things there, and in a mul- 
titude of instances there is no opportunity to do so. Housekeeping 
and cooking, the care of babies, and the wise expenditure of money 
for healthful, nutritious food no more come by instinct just because a 
girl has become a wife and mother, than successfully rimning a depart- 
ment store comes by instinct to a man because he has become a hus- 
band and father. The details of each business are learned through 
experience but there is but one safe time to acquire that experience, 
and that is before life and living may be wrecked in the learning how. 

This all has to do with another recommendation relating to the 
granting of entrance credits in Home Economics by the colleges not 
now accepting them. The committee on College Entrance Require- 
ments appointed at the Boston meeting of the National Educational 
Association reported on manual training and Home Economics to- 
gether, hence it is somewhat difficult to select the direct data in regard 
to this latter subject. 

At the time the report was made, twenty-eight co-educational in- 
stitutions accepted from girls two or more units of household science 
and art for entrance credit. This list included such important uni- 
versities as those of Chicago, Wisconsin, Minnesota, California, and 
Cincinnati. In addition, forty-three more colleges and universities ac- 
cepted household science and art in different amounts, the maximum 
being four units, the minimum one. This list included the Universi- 
ties of Illinois, Michigan, Nebraska, Ohio State, Northwestern, Ohio 



.^'??^ 



1914] Work of General Federation of Women's Clubs 155 

Wesleyan, and others. There were some fifteen other institutions 
which accepted such credits in varying amounts, one of these being 
Columbia, another Cornell University. Twenty-five more would ac- 
cept drawing, but no household science or art; six more were indefinite. 

One himdred and eighty-eight institutions were investigated and out 
of these sixty-two give no credit for drawing, shopwork, household 
science or art. This Hst includes Wells, Vassar, Wellesley, Smith, 
Mount Holyoke, Bryn Mawr, Oberlin, Williams, Amherst, Princeton 
and Yale. 

The committee also reported upon an increasing tendency for inde- 
pendence of courses in high schools throughout the country, a better 
understanding of the actual needs of their students, a recognition of 
the broader functions of the high schools and an evinced intention of 
cultivating purpose, habit of application, power, originality and dis- 
criminating judgment, rather than a clinging to the traditionary studies 
and methods of former years. 

In the West greater latitude is permitted in many respects, espe- 
cially in states not hampered by regents examinations, but in any 
school the student, quickly inoculated as to the value of credits, will 
not select an important life subject if it has no credit. 

This Department of the Federation has been requested to cooperate 
in securing these credits in the colleges attended by women. What 
stands in the way? In the first place, it is necessary that high school 
work in Home Economics should be deserving of high school credit. 
Iq high school, no more than in college, should work be accepted and 
credited which in fact belongs to a lower school or grade. If there is 
high school mathematics prescribed and imiform, then to the same de- 
gree must there be high school Home Economics. Mere cooking is 
not high school work, even where it implies a degree of skill. And it is 
lack of uniformity of agreement as to what shall be taught and when, 
which delays the granting of credits in many places. 

This difficulty must be met. The women's clubs in their immense 
organization can undoubtedly succeed in creating a quite imiversal 
demand for these credits when it is time to proceed. It is however 
unwise to move too rapidly in this. There are a dozen considerations, 
all relating to the teaching of these subjects to be taken into account. 
The American Home Economics Association, and the Home Econom- 
ics Department of the General Federation should collabo'-ate and work 
together on this problem, and it might be wise to suggest a committee 
made up of members from these two organizations to formulate a plan 
of work. 



EDITORIALS 

In the next Biennial of the General Federation of Women's Clubs 
to be held this year in Chicago, June 9-19, the Home Economics 
Department will celebrate the twentieth anniversary 
Twenty Years of the beginning of Club Work in what was then 
of Home Eco- called Domestic Economy or Domestic Science which 
nomics started in that city in a National Housekeepers' 

Convention in October 1893, and out of which was 
to be evolved the National Household Economic Association. 

Your editor was present and took part in this wholly new effort to 
bring to the age-old, inherited occupation of w^omen the benefit of 
intelligent public discussion. Some hundred women gathered in the 
Uttle auditorium with raised seats for the two day convention. Prom- 
inent among them was Mrs. Melusina Fay Pierce of Cambridge whose 
series of brilliant articles on Cooperative Housekeeping published in the 
Atlantic Monthly some twenty years before had brought the subject 
of housekeeping into the field of economics and gained for it a breadth 
of treatment hitherto unkown. It ceased to be from that time a 
back-door subject. But it was still too early to obtain from a group 
of practical housekeepers any discussion of their business on wholly 
new Unes, and Mrs. Pierce's eloquent plea for the starting of household 
industries as laundry and cooking on the cooperative plan aroused no 
answering enthusiasm. 

All oi the papers, no matter what their subject, found their w^ay 
by direct or circuitous route to the servant question; that alone held 
the interest of the audience and the most applauded remedy for bad 
conditions was that of the Golden Rule. Few of those present seemed 
to realize that there was any relation between this servant problem 
and the fact that steerage passengers were already coming not from 
Ireland and North Germany as in the fifties, but from southern and 
south-eastern Europe, also that 300 new occupations had been opened 
to women in the last fifty years. Few saw that this question of house 
service was not a personal question at all and that the Golden Rule 
alone could not meet it, that it was simply an outlying part of the great 
unsolved question of capital and labor with which the economists and 
statisticians are always wrestling. 

156 



1 9 14] Editorials 157 

Those whose memory covers the social and educational advances 
of these two decades see a great change in the attitude of the intelligent 
woman to her business of housekeeping. She has lagged even more 
than her companion in backwardness, the farmer, in grasping her rela- 
tion to modern discovery and invention, but the poor hit-and-miss 
farming of the past has become the scientific agriculture of today and 
housekeeping has heard the word of advance along the same lines. 

The great number of college-trained women that have come in these 
twenty years to preside over homes has also done much to bring about 
the difference. They have attained the broader view, they have at 
least an inkling of the scientific method. But still more has been 
accomplished by the now well-equipped schools for teaching the house- 
hold arts in the pubUc schools and for giving higher education in these 
subjects in the agricultural and state colleges and normal schools and 
in special institutes and also by the popular and technical bulletins 
issued by the Department of Agriculture and the experiment stations. 
Information is now obtainable on every line of practical application 
to the needs of the household, information that is not guess-work nor 
from left-over text books of fifty years ago, but abreast with the 
times. She may avail herself of movable schools and correspondence 
courses, all of which are to be greatly increased through Federal 
appropriations if Congress passes (as it now seems certain) the 
Lever-Smith bill which gives an appropriation of $10,000, to be in- 
creased to $50,000, to each state, contingent upon the state's grant- 
ing similar amounts for extension teaching in agriculture and Home 
Economics. How to house and clothe and feed her family the 
woman may learn from undoubtedly correct sources. 

At the very time when this first housekeepers' conference was apply- 
ing in full faith the Golden Rule as the sovereign remedy for the only 
condition in which there was universal interest, the systematic study of 
nutrition was begun in the United States under Professor Atwater, 
with the result that the general government has taken up not only the 
study of food and nutrition but many other fundamental problems of 
home Ufe including various aspects of clothing, shelter, and household 
management. Old facts of chemistry, physics, and biology have been 
taken out of their original setting and expressed in the housekeeper's 
terms; hence clear and definite directions for bread making, fruit 
canning, intelligible dietary standards for old and young, the idle, and 
the hard working; and much light shed on the kitchen and table 
superstitions of yesterday. As a result of scientific researches of the 



irg The Journal of Home Economics [April 

last twenty years the housekeeper knows the relation of flies and 
other insect pests to the spread of disease and just why and how she 
must fight them; she knows that fly-borne infections are in most 
cases responsible for the dread connected with the babies "second 
summer;" she knows that unclean hands and dust and dirt are 
dangerous as well as disagreeable, and why; she knows her friends and 
foes in bacterial life. Laboratory science has given her knowledge of 
the wearing quality of the materials she uses for clothing and of good 
and poor colors in textiles. New materials and new glazes for cooking 
utensils are at hand as the result of scientific work; and hygiene has 
added its requirements to those of use and beauty in the construction 
of our dwellings. 

The mother or teacher of twenty years ago could hardly go beyond 
se^\ing and cooking (the results of the latter art to be judged chiefly by 
the palate), but now the teacher finds a back-ground of science and a 
wealth of material to assist in the study of all the household arts. 
The Domestic Art field, which in 1893 had no scientific background 
now has its laboratory courses in textile chemistry and microscopy. 

By these means, the study of the house, its equipment and its man- 
agement has now attained the dignity once reserved for remote fields 
of knowledge. The Journal stands for the application of all this 
knowledge; the average housekeeper has only just begun to use it, 
the household machinery is still cumbrous and compHcated, and we 
have yet to work out the relation of the home to all outside helps, and 
to learn the tremendous power of the consumer when educated to 
demand well-built houses and eflacient equipment for running them. 

The generation now in the saddle must work out these problems; 
it owes a duty to those trusting young couples who take out marriage 
licenses at the court house. 

One of the essential tools in any type of scientific work — using "scien- 
tific" in its broadest sense — is the bibliographical tool. This means 

not only a collection of books, but the ability to find 
Bibliographies out what printed matter is available on any given 

subject. Such ability develops only with experience. 
It has at its base the knowledge of the use of published bibliographies, 
of indices, tables of contents, card catalogues, and all devices for 
listing books. Unless the work is done satisfactorily by some avail- 
able library, it means a card reference list to such material. Many 
times those working in Home Economics decide on the use of a 



1914] Editorials 159 

certain reference or text book in some one of their subjects only 
because one person has recommended it. No such decision should 
ever be made without a knowledge of all available books and of their 
comparative merits, uses, and weak and strong points. 

For such purposes annotated bibliographies are of the greatest impor- 
tance, and the Journal reviews offer valuable material for such anno- 
tation. The Bibliography of Current Literature published in every 
Journal is invaluable in keeping the knowledge of possibilities up to 
date. The Journal prints, for those who subscribe 50 cents a year, 
extra copies on one side of the paper, so that the titles may be cut and 
mounted on cards. Some of the books or articles Usted may seem 
at the moment of little interest to a given person, but the very items 
at first disregarded may become of great importance at some other 
time. Certainly no school can afford to be without this material, 
classified and arranged for ready reference. 

The plan of organization of the American Home Economics Asso- 
ciation provides that affiliated societies may be formed in cities, states, 

or institutions, and that affiliation may be had with 
AflUiated the national organization if ten members of the local 

Associations society are members of the national organization. 

There are already a large number of local societies so 
affiliated. Just what purpose these local societies can best serve and 
what program of work they shall adopt has always been a question 
of importance. The Committee on Organization of the Association 
has this matter under consideration and doubtless a report will be 
forthcoming at the Cleveland Convention. Meanwhile the Journal 
offers the following suggestions. 

Local societies will find it well to specialize each year on some partic- 
ular subject. Variety is enjoyable but accompHshment waits upon 
a definite purpose. Our local societies ought not alone to pro\dde 
meetings with programs but ought also to undertake definite efforts 
for some progressive action. As for example, the study of home 
economic legislation in their own state and the securing of reform. 
Each local society should in time, affiliate with itself a section devoted 
to housekeepers which would hold its own meetings and undertake 
progressive work of a nature suggested by the Housekeepers' Depart- 
ment of the Journal. In the larger cities, institution management 
sections ought also to be organized by the local societies to cooperate 
with the Administration Section of the Association. Ever>'where 



i6o The Journal oj Home Economics [April 

local societies ought to cooperate with public libraries and see not only 
that the Journal is received regularly, but that a definite reference 
shelf for the housekeeper is provided and that new books are added 
promptly. We should Uke to see some local society undertaking 
cooperation with the local newspaper to the end that an improved 
woman's page or column may be developed. An inquiry to this end 
has recently come to us from a Montana woman's club. Local clubs 
will do well to provide an opportunity for at least one social gathering 
a year, preferably a luncheon, at which some definite topic of impor- 
tance can be considered. Finally, report plans and results to the 
Journal in order that all may benefit. 

Members of the Association are asked to cooperate in the continued 
effort to advance the Richards Fimd. This should be supported not 

alone as a memorial to the founder of our work but 
Richards also to establish an agency which will pro\ide funds 

Memorial for the research and publication which are so sorely 
Fund needed in a new movement like ours. We have 

already published a Syllabus of Home Economics, a 
reprint on The Richards Memorial Fund, and a reprint on Richards 
Day. 

The student organizations in our universities, colleges, and normal 
schools should all plan during the academic year of 1 9 1 4-1 9 1 5 to arrange 
a benefit of some kind which will result in a school or community 
contribution for the fund. For this purpose, the Richards Com- 
mittee has under preparation a plan for a historical pageant and 
full information about it will be supplied to schools early in the fall. 
It vd]\ provide a suitable observance of Richards-Rumford Day. 
Many schools are finding it desirable to place this later in the year 
than December 3, Mrs. Richards' birthday, since the new students 
are not by that time fully acquainted with the Home Economics idea. 



HOUSEKEEPERS* DEPARTMENT 

The editors of the Journal earnestly request assistance from the readers of this 
new department. They especially desire suggestions for timely topics on which 
information should be gathered; data either given directly or by reference to books 
and articles; and records of personal observation. 

It is the present policy of the Journal to give to its readers, in each issue, news 
of the progress being made in cooperative buying. There is abundant proof that 
cooperative stores, so long a success in Europe and especially in England, are to be 
tried in this country. " Why has every attempt at cooperation failed in America? " 
was asked two years ago of the Edinburgh cooperative store which has 42,000 mem- 
bers and whose sales are now seven and one half million dollars a year. " Because 
your people will not put themselves out to save a penny" was the prompt reply. 
Has the rising cost of living brought about a new attitude and a new resolve? 

To those who would know of the first steps in starting cooperative buying with 
a very moderate capital, the following report will be of great interest. It will be 
noted that it is still in that stage of experiment when the initial enthusiasm of the 
promoters provides the time and energy for superintendence. Making the change 
to fully paid management is an important and difficult step. 



THE CIVIL SERVICE COOPERATORS OF WASHING- 
TON, D. C. 

Howard L. and Cora S. Knight 

It is coming to be generally realized that the present methods of buy- 
ing household necessities inevitably add to the cost of goods to a degree 
which thrifty people would be glad to escape. In Washington nearly 
1600 grocery stores are hsted in the city directory which for a city of 
approximately 66,000 families is one for about forty families. They 
have to meet the cost of frequent deUveries and loss of bad debts since 
the custom of monthly accoimts is very widely followed. These with 
all other expenses of business must be paid by the customer who also 
ynelds to the temptation to order by telephone, a method which un- 
doubtedly adds to weekly bills since it does not require her personal 
scrutiny of what she is buying. 

Cooperation, long a sort of standard remedy in such conditions, has 
been frequently attempted in Washington. One ill-fated plan in par- 
ticular, under which a store with clothing, boots and shoes, meat, gro- 

161 



i52 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

ceries, etc., was carried on, is now only a painful memory to those 
who supplied the initial capital for the venture. In a way, how- 
ever, this and other enterprises served a useful purpose in pointing out 
both the merits of cooperation and also the many pitfalls in the path 
of would-be cooperators. Scarcely had it closed its doors when the 
plan here described was begim in a very modest way. 

A few government employees found in igii that they could, by club- 
bing together, buy smoked hams and bacon of superior quaUty at a 
substantial saving. A canvass of several bureaus resulted in a con- 
siderable number of orders, and purchases to fill them were then made 
by those originally interested who assumed financial responsibiUty as 
well as the burden of distribution of goods, collections, etc. 

At the start the goods were taken weekly to a central pomt and from 
there carried home by the purchasers; but when a supply of high grade 
butter was obtained and the volume of business became greater, a 
more formal organization, a regular office and weekly deliveries became 
indispensable. 

The outcome was the organization, December 4, 1911, of cooper- 
ative buying by the Ci\al Service Council, an association made up of 
government employees. The annual dues were $1 and it had for its 
object the promotion of social acquaintance as well as the organization 
of cooperative undertakings. 

The purchasers from the store soon found that under the plan fol- 
lowed they were receiving goods of high grade and in full quantity, 
and were also making substantial savings. Economically, how^ever, 
the plan was admittedly only a makeshift. The members had con- 
tributed practically no capital, the necessary funds being still advanced 
by a few people specially interested, most of whom were also contribut- 
ing much time in connection with purchases, book-keeping, make up 
of orders, and in similar ways. It was, therefore, merely an instance 
of a few temporarily carrying the responsibihties and duties for the 
many who were being benefited, and not true cooperation at all. 
Another disadvantage was that legally the enterprise was a joint stock 
company, so that in the event of failure each member was liable for any 
debts contracted. 

Efiforts at incorporation were begun, and after considerable delay, 
due mainly to the fact that corporation laws in most states have not 
yet recognized the fundamental principles of cooperation, the Council 
became, on February 25, 1913, a corporation of the District of Co- 
lumbia, under the name of Civil Service Cooperators, Inc., with power 



1 9 14] Housekeepers^ Department 163 

to conduct a "general grocery and merchandise store and all lawful 
business in any wise appertaining thereto or in connection therewith. " 
Among its expressed objects were the following: to advance the com- 
mon interests of its stockholders as consumers, through the conduct of 
a business on the cooperative plan, and to extend the practice of 
cooperation and to educate the public concerning its advantages and 
concerning other matters relating to the public welfare. 

The capital stock of the company consists of 500 shares each of pre- 
ferred and common stock with a par value respectively of $5 and 
$1 per share. One share of common stock is assigned to each mem- 
ber, who must also subscribe for one share of preferred stock, though 
he may pay for all but $1 of the latter from the dividends on his 
share of common stock. Thus, this plan will eventually provide a 
paid-in capital of $3000, but actually requires but $2 in cash from 
new members. It was fully realized that $3000 is a very small in- 
vestment for an enterprise of this sort, and that operations would be 
considerably handicapped by the limited capital, but the previous fail- 
ures have resulted in such skepticism as to the ultimate success of any 
cooperative plan, that it is very doubtful whether a sufficient number 
could have been interested had a large initial contribution been 
required. 

Many supposedly cooperative undertakings in this country have 
come to grief by their eventual control by a few individuals, these some- 
times even representing competitors. Unusual efforts were therefore 
made to guard against this contingency. Only one share of common 
stock is issued to any one stockholder. No limit is placed on the num- 
ber of shares of preferred stock which may be held by one person, but 
the preferred stock is non- voting. A holder of common stock can cast 
but a single vote, and no voting proxies are allowed. Moreover, all 
transfers of common stock must be approved by the board of directors, 
and they have the additional right to call in at any time all shares held 
by a person who is acting contrary to the interests of the organization; 
they may also call in all shares in excess of one held by any person. 

Di\ddends are to be paid annually from the net profits. Holders of 
the full-paid preferred shares first receive 6 per cent on their par value. 
Such of the remaining profits as the directors deem advisable may then 
be divided among holders of the common stock on the basis of their 
purchases during the previous year, except that holders of preferred 
stock receive double the share of non-holders. 

The mode of conducting the business is as follows: A printed order 



i54 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

slip with list of goods on hand and prices is mailed to each member at 
the end of the week. This must be returned by the following Monday, 
together with a remittance for what is ordered. To simplify office 
work checks are requested in even dollars, and small balances are car- 
ried over from week to week. Orders are then made up and distrib- 
uted by the company's teams on Thursday, Friday or Saturday. The 
store is centrally located and is open during the usual hours for pur- 
chases over the counter, as well. It also has a telephone, but this is 
regarded as a convenience for obtaining information, correcting errors, 
etc., and its use instead of the mail order is not encouraged. 

The number of articles now carried is about 260, and is constantly 
being increased in response to requests from members, or as new op- 
portunities arise. One of the recent innovations has been the arrang- 
ing for delivery of eggs direct from producer to consumer by parcel 
post. This plan was begun as an experiment, but was received with 
enthusiasm, far more orders resulting than could be supplied. Very 
little breakage is reported, and the sources of supply are being per- 
fected for fresh-killed poultry. The bulk of the goods handled consists 
of dry groceries, particularly canned and package goods, dried fruit, ex- 
tracts, soaps, etc., although butter has remained the most popular item 
supplied. The superior grade of goods furnished has been one of the 
most attractive features of the store. 

As to the scale of prices it may be said that the tendency among co- 
operators today is to avoid price-cutting, and to follow the prevailing 
rates, the excess to be returned to purchasers in the form of dividends. 
This is in harmony with the spirit of true cooperation, with which 
"bargain hunting" has little or nothing in common. However, what 
is described as a compromise course has been followed thus far. On 
many articles prices are considerably lower than the prevailing rates. 
Thus, on package goods usually sold at 10 cents, a 9-cent price is used; 
25-cent goods are hsted at 23 cents, and so on. Opportunity is also 
offered for substantial reductions on case lots and large quantities. On 
the other hand, some commodities are sold at approximately the regu- 
lar rate, and a few are even higher. Sugar, for instance, on w^hich, as is 
well known, grocers make little profit, can usually be bought for less 
money elsewhere, and a certain brand of soap which grocers sell at 5 
cents and the Cooperators at 4I cents, may always be bought at a local 
department store for 4 cents. 

The question of raismg all prices to the current level is under dis- 



1 9 14] Housekeepers^ Department 165 

cussion, but however it may be decided for the future, the writers be- 
lieve the past procedure has been a wise policy, and that it is an in- 
stance of where expediency is wiser than strict adherence to academic 
principles. A movement of this sort must grow by the addition of new 
members, and the local conditions demand inducements more tangible 
than the possibilities of faraway dividends. Nor should the preference 
of the would-be patron for the "bird in the hand" be too severely 
criticised, especially when it is realized that the system has some fan- 
cied disadvantages and others which are more real. 

To the average city housekeeper the plan of weekly orders and de- 
liveries seems pitifully primitive and inadequate. But this inconven- 
ience is due to the necessity of starting in a small way. If the enter- 
prise grows, the larger capital obtained will enable the store to meet 
all the needs oT the cooperators by a daily delivery. 

Less than a year has elapsed since incorporation, but some interest- 
ing results are already reported. With the prevailing system of man- 
agement and scale of prices the running expenses amount to about 14 
per cent of the returns from sales. The rent item, well recognized as 
one of the heaviest overhead charges in the usual retail store, consti- 
tutes but 8 per cent, ofl&ce expenses 7.4 per cent and delivery costs 2.9 
per cent. The remainder is largely used for printing the weekly order 
slips and the very useful circular of information which accompanies 
them and for numerous miscellaneous items. The buyer and manager 
receive a moderate salary, to be increased as the business grows. After 
paying the original cost of the goods the balance is available as profits. 
The business has gro\\'n steadily, the receipts in January being $500 
a week, and is increasing constantly, and at the annual meeting, Janu- 
ary 21, 1914, the full 6 per cent dividend was declared on the preferred 
stock; interest on the common stock will doubtless be paid during the 
year. If the project fails no member will have suffered serious finan- 
cial loss; in fact, his sa\'ings have doubtless already amounted to as 
much as the capital contributed in nearly every case, and he has bene- 
fited in numerous ways. If it succeeds, an alternative to the present 
methods of retail store management will have been made available, 
and this should be of considerable economic advantage to all concerned . 



i66 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

EQUIPMENT AND ITS RELATION TO HOME-MAKING 

Georgie Boynton Child 

An exaggerated instance of failure to have equipment suited to 
her conditions was illustrated in the case of a woman who moved from 
a comfortable roomy house in the country to an apartment in Brook- 
lyn. Into the tiny rooms went double beds and bureaus and couches, 
so that her apartment was a very impleasant place to live in, the con- 
gestion causing great disturbance of spirit. But we do not have to 
take extreme instances to prove that there are very few homes today 
so equipped that they can be operated with the minimum of labor. So 
many things have to be taken into consideration in fitting out a house, 
the limitations of the house, the amount of money available for pur- 
chasing the outfit, the cost of repairs and the operating expenses, and 
above all the amount of labor that will be saved by a wise adjustment 
of all these factors. 

The equipment that has the most direct bearing on the running ex- 
penses and affects most seriously the comfort of the home-maker and 
the members of the household, is the equipment of the kitchen. This 
in a way determines the operating expenses. In many cases a well- 
planned kitchen ^^•ith equipment properly selected and rightly grouped 
makes it possible for a woman to do without domestic service when 
differently equipped she would be obliged to keep resident help. In 
many cases it has been possible for families who have kept three or 
more domestic workers to keep only one, depending on help hired by 
the day for all extra service that is needed. In one case, known 
to the writer, where the household was reorganized on these lines 
the saxing was several hundred dollars a year in money, with a 
gain of great peace to the household and of added freedom to 
the home-maker. In another family the saving in money nearly 
doubled that amount, being nearly two thousand dollars a year. 
This seems impossible until we reflect that one domestic worker costs 
in board and wages nearly five hundred dollars a year and that a far 
greater percentage of waste takes place where two or more domestics are 
kept. It is more difl5cult for families keeping only one maid to get compe- 
tent general house- workers. There is therefore every incentive for such 
f amihes to get the benefit that comes from the new methods of organ- 
ization and from the new resources that are offered today in labor-sav- 
ing equipment so that they may be independent of resident labor. 
It is no easy matter to master this question of equipment, but it is 



1 9 14] Housekeepers^ Department 167 

very important that it be mastered, for it places the home-maker in com- 
mand of the situation and enables her to solve in a constructive way the 
problems that are summed up in "the high cost of living. " 

Home-making calls for love, intelli ence and expert training. Very 
often women who are abundantly endowed with the right thought and 
intell'gence to make the most perfect kind of homes have not had the 
training to master the technique and are discouraged by its complexity. 
There are so many homely facts to be reckoned with, so much appar- 
ently unimportant detail to be covered, that the task seems hopeless. 
And so they drift along and let their hves and their home-making be 
controlled by circumstances. All that is needed to transform such 
homes is wilUngness to look at the prob em from a different point of 
view; to see that mastery of the work we have chosen is the first step 
to a self-mastery that vitally afifects our characte that wil do much 
toward creating right ideals in our children; and that will do more for 
the world at large than any work outside the home, however brilliant, 
if undertaken at the expense of the responsibilities we assumed when 
we started out in married life. 

DO "MODERN CONVENIENCES" PAY? 

A valuable comparison, as to cost of service, between old and 
new methods of house building and fitting is furnished by Jessie 
Carey in a recently published article.^ Under the title of The 
House and the Art of Living in It, she describes her London house as 
she has built it in order to bring "a more logical adjustment of domes- 
tic fife to existing circumstances, " among which latter she enumerates 
the taking up by women of new social and public duties so that they 
have not the old leisure to supply deficiences in house service which are 
following its increasing cost and the decreasing number of hours per 
week which the servant is willing to work. She anticipates still further 
increase in wages, an eight-hour day, and a compulsory weekly holiday. 
And this is in a country which to the American eye has no servant prob- 
lem. It would be well for us in the United States to face coming con- 
ditions as frankly as does this English woman. 

Her way of meeting the situation is to reform the house and thus 
diminish the work to be done in it, for it is in the upkeep and the run- 
ning of the house that extravagance or economy has its role. This 
author assumes, by the way, that your expenditure will be ten times your 

^Contemporary Review, 104, 1913, Sept., pp. 395-403. Littell's Living Age, 
7 ser. 62, 1913, no. 3627, pp. 109-116. 



i68 



The Journal of Home Economics [April 



rental, a statement which if true should be added to our scanty list of 
facts as to the division of the income. In short, to spend in new ar- 
rangement and equipment not a small sum but enough so that a house 
can do without one of the maids now employed will be a true economy. 
The wages, food and laundry of one maid being reckoned in London at 
£60 or S300 a year, the amount saved in twenty years, or $6000, it is 
calculated would cover the cost of all needed labor saving devices and 
their upkeep whether in permanent building or appliances. 

The ideal is that every house should be so made and fitted that a gen- 
tlewoman can do all the work in it; hard and dirty work, as the carrying 
of coal and water and the scrubbing of rough wooden floors being 
avoided in the following ways; by supplying hot water to every room 
at any moment and in any quantity by an automatic gas circulator in- 
stalled for $50 and run at far less cost than by burning coal in the kit- 
chen range; the heat for upper rooms to be furnished by registers from 
below (and to sacrifice the beloved open fire is full proof that this Eng- 
lishwoman has the courage of her convictions) while the labor usually 
put on floors is reduced to a daily dusting by laying parquetry at about 
double 'lie cost of a good linoleum or $2.25 a square yard, this flooring 
to be polished once or twice a year by a man from outside. Minor 
points insisted on are rounded comers in angles between floors and 
baseboard, in order to avoid dusty comers, and also white enamel fau- 
cets, polished wood for stair-rods, the use of more glass and china and 
less silver, all to avoid tedious poUshing; the use of tiled walls for 
bath room, kitchen and pantry, of casseroles for cooking and of all 
possible small conveniences to save labor, as a cold water tap above 
the stove for filling kettles. 

The writer also calls for smaller sized dish washers, potato parers 
and boot polishers to be placed on the market and suggests a commis- 
sion to inquire into the methods of doing housework in all civilized 
countries. 

In our American cities $300 a year will pay only the wages of a maid; 
one-half to two-thirds more must be added for food and other expenses. 
Thus, the sa\ing in doing with one less maid would amoimt in twenty 
years to approximately $9000. If it pays lq an English city to install 
costly apparatus to diminish housework, still more will it pay in our 
American houses. 

Who will give us additional facts in this comparative study of costs? 
Meanwhile let us call for more women architects who should be better 
equipped than men for planning the house in which efficient labor is 
possible. 



19 14] Housekeepers' Department i6g 

THE INTER-RELATION OF RAILWAY AND HOME SANITATION 

The subject of railway sanitation seems at first thought to be far 
from the housekeeper's field of interest and responsibility, and yet in 
reality home sanitation and public sanitation of whatever kind act 
and react upon each other. Diseases may be transmitted from one 
home to another through the association of people in public places, 
and, thus, precautions in the home make for safety in public places 
and precautions in public places, for safety in the home. 

There is another and equally important, though less direct, relation 
between private and public sanitation, which may be called education- 
al. It is the carefully trained child, used to cleanliness in his own 
home, who is most likely to notice and to protest effectively against 
filthy practices in public places — on railway trains, for example, or in 
stations. On the other hand, conspicuous cleanliness in places where 
many people gather may teach lessons which will be helpful in home 
education. To illustrate: A woman, who from force of circumstances 
is accustomed to hearing hygiene and sanitation discussed almost 
daily, had never thought that water bottles for use on the table might 
be equipped with metal tops operated by levers, much like the cover 
of a syrup jug, until she saw such an arrangement on one of the Harvey 
dining cars of the Sante Fe Railroad. Such is the inertia of the human 
mind that she had taken for granted that fringed napkins, much more 
difficult to keep clean than metal tops, were the only possible means of 
protecting the water in the bottles from dust or from flies crawling in 
and around the neck of the bottle. Housekeepers, on the one hand, 
with abundant opportunity to study the problems of sanitation in 
their small domains, and railways companies, on the other, accustomed 
to doing things on vast scales and able to command the services of 
experts, must teach each other. 

In April, 1913, Samuel Rea, the newly elected president of the Penn- 
sylvania Railroad, issued the following order: 

Waiters Must be Healthy; Those Having Communicable Ailments 
Must Leave. 

The following extraordinary precautions against the transmission of 
communicable diseases by the dining car and restaurant employees 
have been adopted: 

There is to be a quarterly physical examination of every employee 
who has anything to do with the preparation or serving of food. Dish 
washers, kitchen helpers, cooks, and waiters must undergo an exami- 
nation every month, and only a 100 per cent report on their physical 



i^o The Journal of Home Economics [April 

condition v\-ill permit their remaining in the service, while those s\iffer- 
ing from tuberculosis, diseases of the eye or skin, and any other com- 
municable disease, may not be employed in any capacity in which they 
might come io contact with food; further precaution ^\'ill be taken in 
debarring them from employment in places in which linens and table- 
ware are kept. 

Was this position well taken by the President of the Pennsylvania 
Raihoad? In answer, we refer to one single piece of research work 
out of many whicn might be cited. S. L. Cummins, writing in 
a recent journal,^ tell<- of his experiments made for the purpose 
of determining \^•hether typhoid bacilli can be transmitted to 
food by means of the hand. His tests were made on persons 
known as typhoid fever carriers, i.e., persons who are able to be about 
and at work, but who, nevertheless, carry with them the germs of ty- 
phoid fever which they excrete in the urine or the feces. One of these 
persons is likely at any time to apply for a position as cook or waiter. 
And, it is hardly necessary to say that his hands are liable to come in 
contact with his urine or with articles of clothing soiled by the urine. 
In order to determine how dangerous these people are, Cummins 
dipped the index finger of his right hand in the urine of a typhoid car- 
rier (proved to contain 3,000,000,000 tj'phoid bacilli in every cubic 
centimeter, a volume about equal to that of a die used in playing 
backgammon). He then rinsed the finger in a strong disinfectant. 
FoUo-vN-ing this, he washed the finger first in cold and then in hot water. 
Even after this careful cleansmg, much more careful than we expect of 
any waiter or cook, he found that some typhoid bacilli still remained 
on his finger. Going further, he washed his finger in absolute alcohol 
and, while the number of bacilli was greatly reduced, a few remained. 
With the less thorough washing which is customary, bacilli might 
easily be transmitted by a tj'phoid carrier to towels and from them to 
dishes and from the dishes to food. Cummins went still further with 
his study; he dipped only the very tip of his index finger in the urine of 
a t>^hoid carrier and then brought the finger in contact with a bowl 
of freshly prepared soup. The next day the soup was found to contain 
15,500 typhoid baciUi to the cubic centimeter. In view of dangers of 
this kind, the action of the president of the Pennsylvania Railroad is 
greatly to be commended. 

While we are on this disagreeable subject, which the "dainty- 

^ Journal of the Royal Army Medical Corps, 20, 1913, p. 657. 



1914] Housekeepers^ Department 171 

minded, " as some one has called them, refuse to consider, it may be 
well to ask whether there is any danger to the health of passengers 
from the sewage which, according to present methods, is deposited on 
the track from passing trains. In answer to this, we may cite the work 
of Stiles and Keister^ which appeared recently in one of the Public Health 
Reports of the United States Public Health Service. These investi- 
gators say that it has been proved that not a small percentage of human 
beings are constantly eating human excreta — in small quantities it is 
true — but even so the condition is disgusting. Certain tiny organisms 
are found only in human excreta and can be transmitted from one hu- 
man being to another only by this means. Stiles and Keister exam- 
ined 187 persons, selected at random, and found that 30 per cent of 
those who lived in houses with outdoor privies were bearing these 
micro-organisms about in their persons, while only 20 per cent of those 
who lived in houses with indoor water-closets were infected. Of the lat- 
ter, they say, many were found to be living near houses having outdoor 
privies, though not actually in such houses. In these cases flies are 
supposed to be the carriers. It is not reasonable to suppose that filth 
can be carried to a kitchen from a neighboring privy and not to a 
dining car from excreta lying on railway tracks. In view of these 
facts, it is encouraging to know that many of the western roads are 
screening their dining cars completely. Not only are the windows 
screened, but a screen door is placed in the narrow passageway which 
leads from the vestibule to the main part of the car. 

The abundance of the literature on railway sanitation shows that 
the public is aroused. An editorial in the Journal of the American 
Medical Association^ deals with this important matter of the disposal 
of sewage of trains. It begins by commending, very justly, we think, 
the railroads for the advance they have made of late in applied sani- 
tation. "The railways are indeed to be commended for their gradual 
introduction of hygienic regulations that keep their cars, in spite of the 
numbers of people who travel in them every day, in a state that is not 
likely to endanger health. There remains, however, one phase of rail- 
way sanitation that will soon have to be dealt with." The editorial 
proceeds to speak of the danger to health resulting from the scattering 
of sewage in towns and particularly of the fact that the sewage some- 
times falls into streams connected with drinking supply of cities. It 

^Public Health Rpts. 28, 1913, no. 48, pp. 2530-2534. 

* Journal of the American Medical Association, 60, 1913, no. 11, p. 836. 



1^2 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

states that the Pullman Company has already made arrangements for 
the disposal of sewage when cars stand on sidings in smaller towns 
waiting to be picked up by through express trains during the night, a 
fact which promises much for the future. Edward Hungerford, in a 
recent periodical,^ says tliat the Pullman Company attached to its staff 
some eight years ago Dr. Thomas R. Crowder of Chicago, who is mak- 
ing ventilation and sanitation of railway cars, particularly the disposal 
of sewage, his Ufe work. He reports, however, that nothing satis- 
factory has as yet been devised as a holding vessel under the car for 
sewage. The trouble is to get something that will operate through the 
extremes of heat and cold. He makes the very good suggestion, how- 
ever, that while experts are working on this problem, railways be re- 
quired to floor the bridges over all streams that are even remotely 
connected with water supplies. 

Certainly progress is being made, as is shown by one railroad steril- 
izing its drinking-water tanks, another spending $46,000 in putting in 
water tanks in which water and ice do not come in contact, and another 
spending about $15,000 in putting in tanks that are to be filled from 
the roof of the car only. 

EFFICIENCY OF METHODS OF CLEANING 

The sanitary value and efficiency of any method of cleaning depends 
upon the proportion of dust and bacteria which it removes from the 
rooms or furniture. Experiments of interest to the housekeeper have 
been carried out by W. D. Frost and Vermillion Armstrong^ at the 
University of Wisconsin which show the percentage of bacteria 
removed by the ordinary methods of cleaning and by the use of 
vacuum cleaners. They devised a method for determining the num- 
ber of bacteria present on a floor by means of sterile gelatin disks, 
this method giving an accuracy of 99 per cent. The average 
number of bacteria found upon a dirty laboratory floor was about 
76,450 per square inch; upon the garret stairs of a dormitory, about 
76,260 per square inch; upon the floor of an ordinary room, about 
7520 per square inch; on a stairway which had been recently cleaned, 
about 440 per square inch; and upon the floor of an exceptionally 
clean house where a vacuum cleaner had been used for some months, 
about 540 per square inch. 

^Harper's Weekly, 1914, February 7, pp. 21, 22, figs. 3. 
' Jour. Proc. and Add., Nat. Ed. Assoc. U. S., 49th ann. meet., 1911, pp. 985- 
990; Jour. Inf. Dis., 9, 191 1, no. 3, pp. 265-275. 




The Old Not Forgotten in the Xew Japanese University lor \\()men: A Lessuii 
in Tea-Making According to Ancient Traditions 




In the Women's University at Tokio; A Cookery Class 



1914] Housekeepers^ Department 173 

To get an idea of the relative efficiency of the various methods of 
cleaning ordinarily used, the number of bacteria on a given area of 
a dirty floor was determined and found to be about 76,450 per square 
inch. An adjoining area of the same floor after being rubbed with 
a dry cloth was found to contain about 1030 bacteria per square 
inch, while another adjacent area, after being washed with a cloth 
rinsed out in very hot water, contained about 1 10 bacteria per square 
inch. Another neighboring area was washed with bichlorid of mer- 
cury (i-iooo), then rinsed with sterile water and covered with a jar 
until dry, when it was found to be practically sterile. The average 
of the results of four experiments showed that a moderately clean 
floor contained about 385 bacteria per square inch before and about 
90 bacteria per square inch after being swept with an ordinary broom, 
or an average removal of 77 per cent of the bacteria. While this 
percentage is large it must be said, in view of the results of other 
experiments, that a very large part of the bacteria removed from the 
floor go into the air and in a short time settle upon the floor and be- 
fore long there are as many bacteria on the floor as before sweeping. 
Tests made with a patent oil-broom showed that the use of this de- 
vice increased the number of bacteria on the floors which were very 
clean, due apparently to the difficulty of cleaning the broom. A re- 
duction of only about 28 per cent of the bacteria was found on floors 
which had been swept by the aid of a patent sweeping compoimd. 

The efficiency of several types of vacuum cleaners was determined. 
In the case of the two permanently installed systems tried, one, in 
which the vacuum was produced by an electric fan, removed about 
92 per cent of the bacteria from a dirty floor and 96 per cent from a 
clean floor; the other, in which the vacuum was produced by a steam 
aspirator, removed about 72 per cent from a dirty floor and about 79 
per cent from a fairly clean floor. Three portable machines in which 
the vacuvma was produced by an electric fan, removed, on an average 
from 74 to 89 per cent of the bacteria from a clean floor. Two 
portable machines operated by a bellows gave an efficiency of 77 per 
cent in the case of a power machine and 57 per cent in the case 
of a hand-operated machine. 

In the permanently installed machines the bacteria and dust are 
removed from the room entirely, and if the discharge pipe is properly 
located they cause no further trouble. In the case of the portable 
machines, however, in all the machines tested, the air was discharged 
back into the room after being filtered through a bag or some other 



174 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

device to remove the dust. The experiments showed that the filter- 
ing devices would not efficiently remove the bacteria and in 
many cases they were forced through the bag back into the room, in 
some instances being thrown a distance of 6 feet. While the greater 
part of the bacteria present upon the floors are harmless, the port- 
able machines might under certain conditions become a menace 
to health; for example, when used by traveling cleaners they might 
be the means of transporting the bacilli of tuberculosis from house 
to house. 

Where the floor is v\ ashed with soap and water, rinsed with clean 
water, and the dirty water thrown into the sewer we have efficient 
cleaning with removal of the dirt and bacteria from the room. To 
secure bacteriological cleanliness, however, the floor must be washed 
with a solution containing some effective disinfectant, as is commonly 
done in hospitals, pubUc institutions, and sick rooms where there is 
a possibility that the floors may contain the germs of infectious diseases; 
but this method is unnecessary in the ordinary house. This sterile 
condition, however, lasts only for a short time and the process must be 
repeated at intervals as the floor soon becomes infected again through 
use. 

It must be remembered that the experiments here reported were 
carried out upon bare floors and while it appears that under these 
conditions the portable vacuimi cleaners are not as efficient as the 
ordinary methods of cleaning in accomplishing the removal of bacteria, 
yet they require a much less amount of work. For use on carpeted 
floors, or upholstered surfaces, and for dusting, while not so efficient 
as the permanent systems, they are superior to the ordinary carpet 
sweeper, broom, and duster both as savers of energy and from the 
sanitary point of view. 

The permanently installed systems of vacuum cleaning not only 
remove entirely the dirt and bacteria which they take from the room, 
but are much more efficient than the portable machines, since they 
clean more thoroughly and rapidly. They are much more sanitary 
than the ordinary methods of cleaning and require less expenditure 
of body energy. It is hoped that before long all up-to-date apart- 
ment houses will have permanently installed systems with pipes in each 
apartment so that the sweeping and dusting may be accomplished 
more efficiently and with a much greater saving of labor than that 
required by the methods commonly used. There is also much need 
for a medium-priced system operated by electricity or water power 



1914] Housekeepers^ Department 175 

which can be installed in the cellar of the ordinary residence with 
pipes and connections on each floor. It should be so built as to re- 
quire little skill in operation. 

THE BUYING OF CANNED FRUITS AND VEGETABLESi 

At present there are no uniform standards in the packing of canned 
goods, but it is important for the consumer to know whether her lo-cent 
can of tomatoes weighs 2 pounds and 8 ounces, or only i pound and 3 
ounces; whether it contains one cup of Hquid or two and a third cups; 
and whether the solid material weighs 11 ounces or 8 ounces. In 
some examinations of canned tomatoes, of three cans costing each 15 
cents, the results were as follows: 



Measure oj liquid 


Weight of solid fruit 


Cost 


of 


one pound of solid 
fruit 


iSi oz. 


I lb. 32 oz. 






$0,123 


I lb. 2 oz. 


lib. 






o.is 


12 oz. 


I lb. II oz. 






0.088 


[vith two lo-cent cans the results were 








7|oz. 


8 oz. 






0.20 


I lb. 2i oz. 


1 25 oz. 






0.128 



In examining these results it is readily seen that the cost of the can 
bears no definite relation to the value of the contents. Of two cans 
each costing 15 cents one contained two-thirds more solid fruit than 
the other. In the two lo-cent cans one can contained one-half more 
soHd fruit than the other, and in the case of one of the lo-cent cans the 
cost per pound of solid fruit was 250 per cent of the cost of one of the 
15-cent cans. 

Although among dealers the sizes of canned goods are designated as 
I's, 2's, 2^'s, 3's, and lo's, which undoubtedly at one time referred to the 
weight of the package, these numbers now have no reference to the 
weight of the contents, though this fact is not generally known to the 
consumer. The number 2's can may actually weigh i pound and 6 
ounces; a number 3's 2 pounds 8 ounces, and a number id's is above 
weight if it weighs 8 pounds. 

The average consumer knows only whether she is buying a 25-cent 
can, a 15-cent can, or a lo-cent can of peas. If she buys the larger of 
two cans at the same price, she does not know which is the hea\aer; if 
it be the heavier she does not know until she opens it whether the extra 

^ Compiled from "Canned Foods: Fruits and Vegetables." Florence R. Cor- 
bett, Teachers College Bulletin, Ser. 4, No. 12. 



iy6 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

weight is due to an excess of liquid, solidity of pack, or excessive weight 
in can and solder. This sort of bu}dng is extravagant, and may well 
have some relation to the high cost of living. 

Indi\idual consumers and clubs interested in the control of the cost 
of li\'ing could do much to safe-guard the interests of the public by 
publishing the results of investigations made by themselves of goods 
sold in their local markets. 

The methods for such investigations would be very simple and yet 
effectual. One or more cans of each brand of food obtainable should be 
purchased, and the information on the label fully recorded, with the 
name of the brand. The can should be weighed before opening, note 
taken of the price paid, and all observations carefully recorded. After 
the can is opened the contents should be emptied into a sieve, the 
empty can w^eighed, the Uquid measured, and the soHd contents 
weighed. Such data as these would help the consumer to buy wisely 
and well if she would be guided by her findings and buy food (solid 
matter) instead of water (juice) ; and these tests can be made by any 
housekeeper. 

The housekeeper should, however, be relieved from any such labor 
by the canner who should adopt uniform standards and labels. 

WHAT MATERIALS ARE BEST AND CHEAPEST^ 

It pays to buy part-wool goods when firm and of good color, but not 
"all-wool" at 39 cents. 

It pays to buy all-wool serges or flannels if they are well woven, but 
these cost at least 50 cents a yard, for 32-inch material. Anything 
cheaper is thin and easily pulled apart. 

It pays to buy good mercerized foulards and mulls in place of cheap 
silk. They look like silk, are low in price, and in general wash well. 
Cheap silk is filled with other things that make it wear out quickly. 

It pays to buy Indian Head cotton suiting. It looks like linen and 
wears better than " linen suiting. " 

It pays to buy good white la-wTis. They wear well and wash well. 

It pays to make at home imderclothes and nightgowns of good 9 to 
12^ cent muslin but cheap lawns and cambrics are not worth making 
up. 

It pays to buy good, narrow cotton or Unen torchon lace for home- 
made underclothes. Such trimming is strong and inexpensive, but 

' Extracts from Hints on Clothing. Mary Schenck Woolman, Teachers College 
Bulletin, Ser. 2, No. 13. 



1914] Housekeepers' Department 177 

cheap "val" Mechlin and torchon laces and embroideries tear out in 
washing, and take time to iron. 

It pays to buy good, closely knitted stockings. Two pairs of good 
stockings are better than four pairs of cheap, thin ones, which wear out 
quickly and are not easily mended. Always buy stockings that are 
big enough for the feet. 

It pays to buy shoes of good leather and good shape. One pair of 
good shoes is better than two pairs of cheap, thin ones. 

Materials often Adulterated or Weak 

Muslin filled with starch. The starch washes out and lea\'es a coarse, 
poor material. 

Wool serges and suiting, 40-50 inches wide, under $1. In all wool 
they are too thin to wear well; if adulterated with cotton they fade, soil 
and crease. 

Cashmere, 36 inches wide, under 49 cents. Thin, tearing easily and 
wearing thin, and dye not holding. 

Flannels, 30 inches wide, under 25 cents. Not warm enough, mixed 
with cotton. 

Silk in taffetas, messalines and cords, 20 inches wide, under 75 cents. 
Not strong enough to stand wear, being weighted to seem heavy. 

Velveteens, 22 inches wide, under 40 cents per yard, are poorly made 
with dye or stain stamped on top. 

Plush for coats and upholstery. When cheap is made of cotton and 
will fade and soil quickly. . 

Blankets, good, all-wool, are at least $4.50 a pair. When made of 
cotton they are less warm and soil quickly, and are often below standard 
size. 

Towels, size 22 x 14, under 12 cents apiece are likely to be all or 
mostly cotton. 

Fancy cottons with lace stripe. 

Outing flannel in bright colors does not hold the color well and some- 
times the dye poisons the skin. 

Linen dress goods, when inexpensive, do not wear as well as cotton. 

TESTING WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 

During the last few years the various factors concerned in the cost 
of living have come very much to the front. An illustration is fur- 
nished by the work of one woman's club in the testing of weights and 



1^8 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

measures. TV'enty-one women undertook, with scales loaned for the 
purpose by a reliable manufacturmg firm, to weigh for two months as 
much as possible of the food bought for their households. The results 
were tabulated and brought together. The tests covered several hun- 
dred weighmgs of meat, groceries, fruits, vegetables, and ice in nearly 
all quarters of a large city. A lecture by the Supermtendent of 
Weights and Measures of a neighboring state had preceded this effort 
and also an exhibit from the City Comptroller's ofl&ce of false weights 
and measures, so thai the women were famihar with the subject. It 
was agreed that in cases of observed dishonesty the facts were to be 
handed over to the Comptroller's office for investigation without bring- 
ing the complainant into the case. 

The results were interesting. 

First, in the education of the buyer. It was found that many women 
did not know that in the state where the study was made they could 
require the weighing as well as the measuring of vegetables and some 
had yet to learn how many pounds a peck of potatoes should weigh. 
Emphasis was laid on the necessity of holding in mind the price of 
food by the pound of edible material. For instance, given cuts of 
meat must be repeatedly weighed, the edible part separated from 
bone and trimmings, before the inexperienced buyer learns to make 
the right mental calculation at the stall, before she realizes that what 
she has called a cheap cut at i6 cents a pound including the bone 
may be dearer than the one at 25 cents with little "trimmings," and 
that the weight of bone in a chicken is proportionately high. She 
also learns that for the real weight of package cereals the price is 
much higher than the apparent price, and that the sHced bacon in a 
30-cent can may in reality cost 56 cents a poimd. 

Second, the buyer's general attitude either of trustfulness or sus- 
picion toward dealers becomes more just because put on a better basis 
of actual fact. She has been told that 5 per cent of the marketmen, 
grocers and hucksters are dishonest. In the case cited, the results 
were quite different. Hardly 2 per cent were found to give short 
weight and this loss was almost balanced by the number of cases re- 
ported in which overweight was given. The conclusion drawn was 
that carelessness rather than intent to cheat was to blame in these in- 
stances. Only two mstances of evident intent to cheat were reported 
to the office of weights and measures. 

Incidentally, the point was brought out that household half-pint, 
pint, and quart measures are often defective and that anyone may 
get scales or measures tested %\'ithout charge by city authorities. 



1914] Housekeepers^ Department 179 

It was considered of great importance to be brought in closer touch 
with one of the city departments, as these women were, and to learn 
of their methods to protect buyers and also to what extent the buyer 
may cooperate. 

QUICK METHODS OF MIXING DOUGH 

Several years ago experiments were carried on at the University of 
Chicago by Miss Wellman who found that much unnecessary time has 
been spent in cake-making. Cakes were made in two ways; by thor- 
oughly creaming the butter and sugar and then adding the other in- 
gredients; by melting the butter and beating it in after beating the 
other ingredients. Cakes mixed in the latter way and baked beside 
cakes of the same proportions mixed in the conventional manner could 
not be told apart in appearance or taste after baking, although the bat- 
ter differed in appearance before baking. 

Some further work showed that the whole question is one of getting 
the ingredients thoroughly mixed. In other tests made at the uni- 
versity repeated trials showed that melted shortening could be used 
in mixing baking powder biscuits if due care was used to beat it 
m thoroughly; and such biscuits compared favorably, both in texture 
and tenderness, with biscuits made by rubbing or cutting the shorten- 
ing into the flour. 

It is somewhat difficult to measure exactly the time saved by using 
melted butter in cake instead of creaming the butter with the sugar, or 
melted shortening in biscuits instead of rubbing shortening into the 
flour, for the time necessary for that process varies with the season 
and with the amounts used; but in these experiments it was found, 
on the average, to save half of the time required for mixing. 

THE FEEDING OF YOUNG CHILDREN^ 

Children's stomachs are not as strong as those of grown people and a 
child should not eat the same kind of food as an adult, any more than 
he should wear the same kind of clothes. 

Milk is the best food for children of all ages; it contains everything 
needed to make a child grow, and every child should have at least one 
quart a day. This need not all be taken as a beverage; it may be used 
in cooking cereals and vegetables, or in making simple puddings. 

1 Extracts from The Feeding of Young Children. Mary Swartz Rose, Teachers 
College Bulletin, Ser. 2, No. 10. The prices have been revised to date. 



i8o 



The Journal of Home Economics 



[April 



A dish of cereal cooked three hours or more should also be given 
every day, preferably without sugar. Cereals made from the whole 
grain, such as rolled oats and rolled wheat, are better body-builders 
than those with the bran removed, such as farina, etc. Eggs, fruit, 
and fresh vegetables should form a part of every day's food. 

Do not give meat to children under eight years of age if eggs and 
milk can be liberally provided. For the older children choose meat 
cooked without fat, as beefsteak, roast beef or mutton, chicken, fish 
free from fat, such as halibut, haddock, cod. Do not allow children to 
eat candy between meals. A small piece of pure candy or sweet choco- 
late may be allowed the older children with dessert for dinner. If 
children show a distaste for milk , cereals and other plain food, cut down 
the supply of sweets and other highly flavored food. The cultivation 
of a rational appetite is an important part of the training of children. 

Never give fried food, pastry, hot bread, fresh rolls, or any cake ex- 
cept plain cookies, gingerbread, or sponge cake, and these latter only 
to older children in limited quantity. Syrups, preserves and nuts 
(unless ground to a paste) should not be given to children under 5 
years eld, and to older ones only sparingly. Allow no tea, coffee, 
beer, lemonade or sodawater. Children over six may drink weak 
cocoa or cocoa shells occasionally, making the beverage with milk. 

Meals for One Day^ 





Child 2-4 Years Old 




Breakfast: 


Oatmeal mush 


. 8 oz. dry cereal 


7.30 a.m. 


Milk 


iH cups 




Stale bread 


I slice 




Orange juice 


4 tablespoons 


Lunch : 


Milk 


I cup 


II a.m. 


Stale bread 


I slice 




Butter 


I teaspoon 


Dimier: 


Baked potato 


I 


i.oo p.m. 


Boiled onions (mashed) 


I 




Bread and butter 


I slice 




Milk to drink 


I cup 




Baked apple 


I 


Supper: 


Boiled rice 


I cup 


5-3op-m. 


Milk 


Mcup 




Bread and butter 


I slice 



* Menus for older children will be given in the June Journal. 



I9I4] 



Housekeepers' Departtnent 



181 



Nutritive value and cost 



IfATLRIAI. 


WEIGHT 


PROTEIN 


FUEL VAI.UE 


COST 




ounce 


grams 


calories 


$ 


Rolled oats 


0.8 


4-2 


100 


0.0030 


Stale bread 


2.0 


7.0 


200 


0.0080 


Orange juice 


2.0 




25 


0.0150 


Butter 


o-S 


0. 1 


100 


O.OIIO 


Potato 


2.6 


13 


50 


. 0040 


Onion 


I.O 


OS 


14 


0.0030 


Apple 


2.0 


0.2 


26 


O.OIOO 


Sugar 


0.2 




23 


0.0006 


Rice 


1.0 


2-3 


100 


0.0050 


Milk 


34-4 (i 


Qt.)32.2 


67s 


0.0900 






47.80 


1313 


0.1497 



Substitutes or additions 

For Rolled Oats or Rice: Other cereals, such as rolled wheat, wheaten grits, 
farina, hominy and corn meal. 

For Orange Juice and Baked Apple: Pnme pulp or apple sauce. 

For Onions: Spinach, strained peas, stewed celery, carrots, or cauliflower tips. 

An egg may be added ever>' day, and should be included at least two or three times 
a week. 

These changes will alter the cost somewhat. 

SOME OBSERVATIONS ON THE FEEDING OF CHILDREN' 

Some interesting notes upon the feeding of children are given below, 
which, although made in a children's hospital, can readily be applied to 
the home. The chief aim was to give the children good, nourishing 
food, no attempt being made to economize financially at the sacrifice 
of nutritive conditions, but the cost was not excessive. The children 
were being treated for diseases of the bone, due primarily to tubercular 
infection, but in every other respect they were leading the normal life 
of the average child, i.e., school in the morning and afternoon, and out- 
of-door p'ay in much of their spare time. 

'Compiled from "A Dietary Study in A Children's Hospital," by Mary S. 
Rose and Harriet C. Jacobson, Teachers College Bulletin, Ser. 3, No. 13. 



Z' 



iS2 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

Sample Menu for One Day 

Breakfast Dinner Supper 

Wheatena Corned beef, potatoes Scrambled eggs on 

Vegetable salad (beets, toast 

Bread and butter carrots, string beans) Cookies 

Apricots and prunes Milk 

Cocoa Milk 

In calculating the value of the foods furnished, due regard was given 
to the amount of the mineral constituents furnished as well as to the 
fuel value. Thus meat and fish cost one-fourth of the total outlay for 
food, and milk one-fifth, but their real value in the diet stood in the 
relation of four to five; thus milk is the most important as well as the 
cheapest food in this dietary. For the same reason grain products 
have a high score; an equal amount of fuel in the form of sugar would 
carry with it none of their valuable mineral constituents; the grains, 
vegetables, and fruits furnished half the total amount of iron. 

During the cold months a cooked cereal was served six times during 
the week, rolled oats being given three out of the six mornings. 
Once a week a ready-to-eat cereal was served, the greater quantity o' 
milk being used on these seeming to justify their use. During the 
summer these ready-to-eat cereals are used three times a week in place 
of the rolled oats. The children seemed never to tire of the cocoa and 
bread and butter for breakfast. 

In calculating the cost in fuel values some interesting discoveries 
were made in regard to meats. It was found that ribs of beef were 
cheaper than rump at the same price, and cheaper than corned beef 
at two and one-half cents per pound less, and this led to the gradual 
elimination of so-called cheap cuts, except for the sake of variety. It 
was also foimd that 25 per cent more of round top steak was consumed 
than of Hamburg steak, so that the latter, which had been used fre- 
quently is now used only for the sake of variety. 

Fruit was used liberally in all seasons, and fruit-milk sherbets were 
served frequently for dinner for the purpose of giving both the fruit 
and the milk. Milk was given the children freely, and if the customary 
amount was not drunk it was used in cooking, so that the children got 
it in one form or the other. More milk was used in summer than in 
winter, and once a week it was introduced in the shape of milk toast, 
and once in cream soup. Eggs were used t^\^ce a week, at least, for 
supper. 



1 9 14] Housekeepers^ Department 183 

Realizing that children as a rule do not relish green vegetables, an 
attempt was made to familiarize them with new flavors by first intro- 
ducing the vegetables ia soups and gravies, and it was found that when 
once they had become familiar with the flavor it was not so diflScult to 
get them to eat the vegetables alone. 

An interesting fact was noticed in connection with the generally ac- 
cepted belief that children crave sugar in large quantities. It was 
found that with the cereal slightly sweetened before serving, and the 
fruits cooked with a very moderate amount of sugar, though very few 
puddings and almost no cake were used, demands for extra sugar on 
the table were very rare. The children were allowed to make candy 
whenever they asked to do so, but strikingly few requests were made. 
It would seem then, that when children have adequate nourishment in 
other forms, and do not have temptation in the form of candy put 
immediately before them, the supposed craving for sugar is not in 
evidence. 

Children respond readily to slight variations in form, color, and even 
in the number of dishes on the table, and it is perfectly possible to 
keep their menus simple and with the necessary elements in their 
proper forms and proportions and yet avoid any sense of monotony. 

MAKING LIQUID FATS SOLID 

The chemical relation between the solid fats, such as beef suet and 
mutton tallow, and the liquid fats, such as olive oil and the newer mem- 
bers of the group (cotton seed oil, com oil, peanut oil, soy bean oil) has 
long been known to scientists. The difference in composition lies 
in a higher percentage of hydrogen in the solid than in the liquid fats; 
the carbon in the solid fats has all the hydrogen it can hold, while that 
in the Liquid fats has not. The former are, therefore, spoken of as "satu- 
rated" and the latter as "unsaturated." This is an interesting fact, 
but it never had any practical importance until some one devised a 
means of making the liquid fats take up more hydrogen and be- 
come solid.^ This greatly increased the uses to which they could be 
put in cooking. Some people have always preferred vegetable to 
animal fats, though it must be said that their preferences were purely 
personal matters and were not based on the result of scientific investi- 
gation. Now these people can have vegetable fats in solid as well as 

^ Pure Products, q, 1913, no. 2, pp. loi, 102, 



1 84 The Journal of Eonie Economks [April 

in liquid form, and even those who have no scruples about the use of 
animal fats have a much wider choice than formerly. 

The process by which hydrogen is added to oils is known as catalysis. 
A catalyzer is a substance which has the power to effect unlimited 
changes in other substances without undergoing any permanent change 
itself. Hydrochloric acid, for example, may act as a catalyzer. A 
very Uttle bit of this substance introduced into a hot solution of cane 
sugar will attack one particle a'ter another and convert it into grape 
sugar and fruit sugar mtil all the cane sugar is gone. At the end of 
the operation the hydrochloric acid remains as it was in the beginnmg. 
In the case of the liquid fats the catalyzer is a very small amount of 
powdered nickel. After this is introduced, hydrogen is run through 
the fat and the nickel does the work of attaching it to one particle 
after another of liquid fat which finally changes to a soUd fat. That 
the nickel can be entirely removed after its work is done is indicated 
by the fact that the chemist of the New Hampshire State Board of 
Health reports that he examined one of the commonest of these new 
solid fats, much advertised for culinary purposes, and found not a 
trace of the metal left.^ 

FIRELESS COOKER 

A comparison has been made of gas range, fireless cooker and a com- 
bination of the two, as to amoimt of gas used, labor required, and the 
results as to appearance and palatabiHty of the food cooked for family 
use for one day. 

The saving of gas in using the fireless cooker after starting the food 
on the gas stove was from five-ninths to three-quarters of what it cost 
to cook the food entirely by gas, and the result was pronounced better 
in taste and appearance while the labor or attention required was great- 
ly reduced. The combination gas stove and fireless cooker effected 
a still greater saving. 

The sa\Tng in gas by use of the fireless cooker would amount in 93 
days to the price of a fireless cooker, and in 231 days to the price of the 
combination range and cooker. For details see page 131. 

^Quart. Bid. Bd. Health N. H., 2, 1913, no. 2, pp. 31, 32. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY FOR HOME ECONOMICS 
LITERATURE 

Foods and Cookery 

A Rapid and Accurate Gravimetric Method for Determining Fat in Ice Creams, 
Cereals and Chocolate. E. P. Harding and Guy Parkin, Jour, Indus, and Eng. 
Chem., V, 1913, no. 10, pp. 843-845. 

Lacto, A Frozen Dairy Product. M. Mortensen and B. W. Hammer, Iowa 
Agr. Exp. Sta., Bui. 140. (Third edition of Bui. 118 with some new material.) 

The Present Status of Pasteurization. S. Henry Ayers, Am. Jour. Pub. Health, 
iv, 1914, no. I, pp. 15-19. 

A Study of the Influence of Cold-Storage Temf>eratures upon the Chemical 
Composition and Nutritive Value of Fish. Clayton S. Smith, Biochem. Bid., 
iii, 1913, no. 9, pp. 54-68. 

The Composition of Different Varieties of Red Peppers. L. M. Tolman and 
L. C. Mitchell, Jour, Indus, afid Eng. Chem., v, 1913, no. 9, pp. 747-751, cf. Bui. 
163, Bur. of Chem., U. S. Dept. of Agr. 

Fatty Acids of Hen's Eggs. V. H. Mottram, Proc. Physiol. Soc, Jour. Phy- 
siol., xlvii, 1913, nos. 4 and 5, p. xviii. 

How the White of the Egg is Made. R. Pearl and M. R. Curtis, Maine Sta. 
Bui. 216, pp. 161-168, fig. 2. (An abstract of a more extended paper by the 
same authors. Studies on the Physiology of Reproduction in the Domestic Fowl. 
Data regarding the Physiology of the Oviduct, /owr. iix/»^ Zodl,xu, 1912, pp. 99-132.) 

Some new or little known Philippine Economic-Plants. O. W. Barrett, Phil- 
ippine Agr. Rev., vi, 1913, no. 10, pp. 493-503, pi. n. (Economic plants yielding 
fruit, nuts, or vegetables. Some are useful for jam or jelly.) 

Roselle. D. S. Pratt, Philippine Jour. Sci., Sect. A. vii, 191 2, no. 3, pp. 201-207, 
pis. 2. (Hibiscus sabdariffa) a fruit used for making jellies, etc. 

Shellfish. R. B. Fitz-Randolph, Nat. Food Mag., xxxvi, 1914, no. 2, pp. 134-137. 

Oysters: The World's most Valuable Water Crop. Hugh M. Smith., Nat. 
Geog. Mag., xxiv, 1913, no 3, pp. 257-281. (Copiously illustrated.) 

Design of Surface Combustion Appliances. Charles Edward Lucke, Jour. 
Indus, and Eng. Chem., v, 1913, no 10, pp. 801-824. (New type of gas stove.) 

Nutrition 

The Influence of Butter-Fat on Growth. T. B. Osborne and L. B. Mendel, 
Jour. Biol. Chem., xvi, 1913, no 3, pp. 423-437. 

A Copper Balance on Seven Experimental Subjects to Determine the Effect 
of Eating Coppered Vegetables. Carl L. A. Schmidt, Jour. Am. Chem. Soc, xxxvi, 
1914, no. I, pp. 132-136. 

On Fat Absorption III. Changes in Fat during Absorption. W. R. Bloor, 
Jour. Biol. Chem., xvi, 1914, no. 4, pp. 517 — 530. 

18S 



i86 the Journal of Home Economics [April 

On the Action of Leucocytes and of Kidney Tissue on Amino-Acids. P. A. 
Levene and G. M. Meyer, Jotir. Biol. Chem., xvi, 1914, no 4, pp. 555-558. 

Experiences with "Whey modified milk" in Infant Feeding. J. S. Leopold, 
Arch. Fed., xxxi, 1914, no i, pp. 20-23. 

Influence of Variations of Diet on Gastric Motility in Infants. M. Ladd, Arch. 

Fed., XXX, 1914, PP- 740-747- 

Etiology of Artificial Feeding. A Plea for the Study of Breast Milk Problems. 
H. Lowenburg, Jmtr. Am. Med. Assn., Ixi, 1913, no. 24, pp. 2124-2130. 

Rules for Planning the Family Dietary. Flora Rose, Cornell Reading Courses, 
Lesson for the Farm Home, n, no 41. 

The Box Luncheon. Clara W. Browning, Cornell Reading Courses, Lesson for 
the Farm Home, ii, no. 43. 

On the Mid-Day Meal of School Children in Relation to Nutrition. George 
Finch, Report of School Medical Officer, Education Committee, Comity Council 
of East Susse.x, Eng. igi2. (Nature of Children's Limches.) 

On the Nutrition of Boarded-Out Children and Workhouse Children. Arthur 
Beeley, Report of School Medical Officer, Education Committee, County Council of 
East Sussex, Eng. IQI2. 

Dietetics in Italian Tenements. Winfred S. Gibbs, Pub. Health Nurse Quart, 
vi, 1914, no. I, pp. 42-53- 

Contributions to the Physiology of the Stomach. VIII. Hunger Contractions 
of the empty stomach during Prolonged Starvation. A. J. Carlson. DC. The 
Hunger Contractions of the Stomach Pouch Isolated According to the Method of 
Pawlow. A. J. Carlson, J. S. Orr, L. W. McGrath. X. The Condition of the 
Oesophagus during the Periods of Gastric Hunger. A. J. Carlson, and A. B. 
Luckhardt, Am. Jour. Fhysiol., xxxiii, 1914, no i, pp. 95-142. 

The Normal Movements of the Colon in Man. Hertz and Newton, Jour. Physiol., 
xlvii, 1913, p. 57. 

On the Production and Utilization of Glycogen in Normal and Diabetic Animals. 
Cruickshank, Jour. Physiol., xlvii, 1913, nos. i and 2, pp. 1-14. 

Glyoxalase. Part IV. Dakin and Dudley, Jour. Biol. Chem., xvi, 1914, no. 4, 
PP- 505-514- 

Urea Formation in the Liver. C. H. Fiske and H. T. Karsner, Jour. Biol. 
Chem., xvi, 1913, no. 3, pp. 399-418. 

Studies on Water Drinking. XVI. The Influence of DistiUed Water Drinking 
with Meals upon Fat and Carbohydrate. XVII. The Ajnmonia Output as an Index 
of the Stimulation of Gastric Secretion Following Water Ingestion. N. R. Blather- 
wicke, F. Wills, and P. B. Hawk, Jotir. Am. Chem. Soc, xxxvi, 1914, no. i, pp. 
152-165. 

The Fate of Protein Digestion Products in the Body. II. Determination of 
Amino Nitrogen in the Tissues. III. The Absorption of Amino Acids from the 
Blood by the Tissues. FV. The Locus of Chemical Transformation of Absorbed 
Amino Acids. D. D. Van Slyke and G. M. Meyer, Jour. Biol. Chem., xvi, 1913, 
no. 2. pp. 187-233. 

The Chemistry of Gluconeogenesis. VI. The Effects of Acetaldehyde and Pro- 
pylaldehyde on the Sugar Formation and Acidosis in the Diabetic Organism. 
A. I. Ringer and E. M. Frankel, Jour. Biol. Chem. xvi, 1914, no. 4, pp. 563-580. 



1 9 14] Bibliography of Current Literature 187 

New Basis for Dietetics. Casimir Funk, Abs. Jour. Am. Med. Assn., Ixii, 1914, 
no. 2, p. 171. (From Miinchvner Medizinische Wochenschrift, Ix, 1913, no. 47.) 

The Fundamental Basis of Nutrition. From an address by Dr. Graham Lusk 
before the N. Y. Acad, of Med., Jour. Am. Med. Assn., Ixi, 1913, no. 26, pp. 2317- 
2319. 

Causes, Types and Treatment of Diarrhea in Adult Life. Richard C. Cabot 
and Haven Emerson, Jour. Am. Med. Assn., Ixi, 1913, no. 13, pp. 1015-1020. 

The Influence of the Administration of Creatine and Creatinine on the Creatine 
Content of Muscle. V. C. Myers and M. S. Fine, Jour. Biol. Chem.,xvi, 1913, 
no. I, pp. 169-186. 

The Diet in Gastric Ulcer and Hyperchlorhydria. J. B. Nichols, Jour. Am. 
Med. Assn., Ixii, 1914, no. i, pp. 22-24. 

The Statistical Study of Dietaries. Karl Pearson, Biomelrika, ix, 1913, III and 
IV, pp. S30-S33- 

Human Pancreatic Secretion, Editorial. Joiir. Am. Med. Assn., Ixi, 1913, no. 

24, pp. 2161, 2162. 

Review. Uricaemia and Gout. Walker Hall, Quart. Jour. Med., vii, 1913, no. 

25, PP- 29-41- 

The Ileo-Coecal Sphincter. A. F. Hert2:, Jour. Physiol., xlvii, 1913, pp. 54-57. 

Studies of the Endogenous MetaboHsm of the Pig as Modified by Various Factors. 
I. The Efifects of Acid and Basic Salts, and of Free Mineral Acids on the Endog- 
enous Nitrogen Metabolism. II. The Influence of Fat Feeding on the Endogenous 
Nitrogen Metabolism. III. The Influence of Benzoic Acid on the Endogenous 
Nitrogen Metabolism. E. V. McCollum and D. R. Hoagland, Jour. Biol. Chem., 
xvi, 1913, no. 2, pp. 299-326. 

The Righting of Certain Errors Concerning Normal Nutrition. A. Gautier, Rev. 
Sci. Paris, li, 1913, I, no. 21, pp. 641-648. Ahs. in lllus. London News, [Amer. 
Ed.] lii, 1913, no. 1364, p. 894. (Summary of data regarding the average food 
consumption in Paris and other similar information.) 

Fasting Studies, XII. The Ammonia, Phosphate, Chloride and Acid Excre- 
tion of a Fasting Man. XIII. The Output of Fecal Bacteria as Influenced by 
Fasting and by Low and High Protein Intake. N. R. Blatherwick, D. W. Wil- 
son and P. B. Hawk, Jour. Am. Chem. Soc, xxxvi, 1914, no. i, pp. 137-152. 

Hygiene and Sanitation 

Our Modem Laundry. Allen L. Benson, Good Housekeeping, October, 1913, 
pp. 558-562. 

Laundry Machinery and Methods. L. Ray Balderston. Good Housekeeping, 
October, 1913, pp. 562-568. 

What Good Housing Means. John Ihlder, Am. Journ. Pub. Health, iv, 1914, 
no. I, pp. 20-25. 

Household Insects and Methods of Control. Glenn W. Herrick, Cornell Reading 
Courses, vol. 3, no. 49. 

Infant Welfare Stations in N. Y. State. Mo. Bui. N. Y. State Depl. Health, 
December, 1913, N. Ser. 8, no. 12. 



i88 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

Further Reports (no. 5) on Flies as Carriers of Disease. Repts. Local Govt. 
Bd. [Gt. Britain] Puh. Health and Med. Subjs. N. Ser. no. 63, p. 22, fig. 2. 
(This includes three papers, namely: "Observations on the Range of Flies" by C. 
Gordon Hewitt; "British Flies Which Cause Myiasis in Man "by Ernest E. Austin; 
and "An Account of the Bionomics of the Flies Faunia [Hotnalomyia] Canlcularis. 
(the lesser house fly] and F. Scalasis. Fab. [The Latrine Flies] and their relation 
to Myiasis of the Intestinal and Urinary Tracts" by C. Gordon Hewitt.) 

The Municipal Regulation of Milk Supply. E. O. Jordon, J&iir. Am. Med. 
Assn., Ixi, 1913, no. 26, pp. 2286-2290. 

Cytology and Bacteriology of Condensed Milks. F. W. Andrewes, Jour. Pathol, 
and Bacterial., London, xvjii, 1913, no. 2. 

The Transportation of Food Products: A Pressing Health Problem. P. H. 
Brj'ce, Am. Jour. Pub. Health, iii, 1913, no. 10, pp. 1056-1062. 

Miscellaneous 

A New Profession. S. P. Breckenridge, Puh. Health Nurse Quart., vi, 1914, no. i, 
pp. 25-30. (Social work.) 

Modem Windows and Their Decoration. B. Russell Herts, Craftsman, xxv, 
1914, no. 5. pp. 500-503. 

"Pure Textile" Bills. Textile World Rec, xlvi, 1914, no. 4. pp. 62-67. 

Hints ')n Choosing Textiles. Bertha E. Titsworth, Cornell Reading Courses, 
Lesson for the Farm Home, ii, no. 45. 

[Clothing in relation to] deaths of children by burning, Jour. Am. Med. Assn., 
Ixii, 1914, no. I, p. 46. (Statistics are discussed which show that due to the different 
type of clothes more yoimg girls are fatally burned than boys.) 

A Canning Business for the Farm Home. Claribel Nye and Bessie E. Austin, 
Cornell Reading Courses, Lesson for the Farm Home, ii, no. 47, 

Social Pediatrics. I. S. Wile, A''. V. State Jour. Med., xiii, 1913, no. 11. 

The Problem of the Institutional Infant. H. L. K. Shaw. Am. Jour. Pub. 
Health, iii, 1913, no. 3, pp. 1100-1103. 

The Detection of Anthrax Spores in East India Wool and in Yam Manufactured 
Therefrom. P. L. Southerland, Jour. Hyg. [Cambridge], xiii, 1914, no. 4. 
pp. 403-408. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 

Any book or periodical mentioned in this department may be obtained through 
the Journal of Home Economics at the price listed. 

Shelter and Clothing: A textbook in the Household Arts. By Helen Kinne 
and Anna Cooley of Teachers College, Columbia University. New York: The 
Macmillan Company, 1913, pp. 377. $1.10. By mail of the Journal, $1.20. 

This book which is especially adapted for high schools fills a long felt need in 
putting before those interested in the practical education of girls, the first adequate 
text-book on the subject of Household Arts, a book, moreover, which handles the 
subject in its broadest aspect. 

The book is dixaded into two parts, part one dealing with the home. Certainly 
no book could have a more charming introduction than the first chapter, which 
describes what the ideal home, or family life lived within the house, should be. 

House planning, heating, ventilating and lighting are discussed in a practical 
and not too technical way, for it is evidently not the intention of the authors to 
give an exhaustive treatment of these subjects, but rather to merely open them up 
so that the students may see the relation to their own immediate surroundings. 

The chapter on water supply and disposal of waste is concise and definite, and 
easily applicable to the systems in small towns. 

The treatment of the decoration of the home and its furnishing is particularly 
fine, and will afford ideas to clever teachers for developing instruction along some 
particular line, and for correlating with other departments. 

Part two has three sub-divisions — Textile Materials and How They Are Made, 
Sewing and Garment Making, and Dress. In dealing with the textile fibers and 
their manufacture, the usual technical and mechanical matter is presented in a way 
that can be clearly understood. Especially good is the comparison of the different 
fibers and the simple methods of distinguishing between them. 

Under sewing there is a discussion of the relative merits of hand and machine 
sewing and the conditions under which some ready made underwear is produced. 

Several chapters deal in a thorough and practical way with the hygiene and eco- 
nomics of clothing, and with its care, repair, and renovating. 

In the chapters on millinery and the making of dresses some of the descriptions 
would have been clearer if the illustrations had been more adequate. 

On the whole, the book is a store-house of excellent suggestions for the teacher as 
well as a most interesting text-book for the student and reference book for libraries. 
It contains, moreover, much material which would make it an imusually helpful 
handbook for the young home maker. 



189 



iQO The JourtKil of Home Economics [April 

Textiles : A Handbook for the Student and Consumer. By Mary S. Wool- 
man and Ellen B. McGowan. The Macmillan Company, 1913, pp. 427. $1.80. 
By mail of the Journal $1.92. 

This book will receive a welcome from students of household arts throughout the 
field. Professor Wooknan has put into this book the results of her twenty years 
experience in teaching textiles at Teachers College and she has been most ably 
assisted by Mrs. McGowan, an instructor at Teachers College, who has made a 
special study of textile chemistry. The result is a book which covers the textile 
field in its relation to the teaching of household arts more completely than any pre- 
vious work. 

After an opening chapter on the beginnings of the textile industry and chapters 
on spinning and weaving, the first half of the book is devoted to a study of the 
leading textile fibers, their cultivation, preparation, and methods of manufacture. 
These points are taken up in a thoroughly systematic manner; there are many illus- 
trations and these, with the careful explanations of the mechanism of the compli- 
cated textile machinery will make it valuable to the teacher and student, ht the 
close of each of the chapters on cotton, silk, wool and flax is a list of the standard 
materials, their prices and widths. 

The latter half of the book treats the subject from a more comprehensive point of 
view and will prove a boon to the one who is endeavoring to teach textiles from a 
broader outlook. A chapter called Consiuner's Judgment of Textiles dwells on the 
need for knowledge of values on the part of the consumer and gives hints helpful 
to every shopper. Three excellent chapters follow, dealing with the chemistry of 
textiles, the testing of different materials to detertoine the adulterations; the use of 
the microscope in judging the quality of the fibers; and a study of the principles of 
dyeing. The laundering of the different textiles is also discussed and a chapter on 
Hygiene of Clothing gives some important points on the relation of clothing to 
cleanliness and health. Some economic and social aspects and a chapter on Clothing 
Budgets complete the book and show how thoughtful of service the authors have 
been in considering the subject of woman as a textile consumer and in obtaining 
data from homes, stores and factories in order that some knowledge may be avail- 
able on which to base needed conclusions and form definite standards. 

Students of household arts who have had the privilege of studying with Mrs. 
W'oolman will appreciate the organization of this valuable material, formerly gained 
through her lectures. The book may be used as a text book for college classes and 
will eventually help to place the teaching of textiles on a soimd basis with other 
subjects in a college curriculum. 

Old Italian Lace. By Eliza Ricci. London: Heinemann, 1913. Folio. Vols. I, 
pp. 434; II, pp. 284. Illustrated. 126 shillings. Rev. Illus. London News. 
(Amer. Ed.], 53, 1913, no. 1386, 824; Sup. pp. 11, III. 

The evolution of lace is due, the author says, to the fact that Italian ladies some- 
times near the beginning of the sixteenth century took to wearing washable imder- 
linen and had to have it suitably decorated. 

The author insists that, unlike the older craft, embroidery, lace making did not 
come from the East but from Venice. The book is beautifully illustrated with 
reproductions of portraits, etc., showing lace. 

According to the review referred to, " the first volume of Signora Ricci's work 



I 



1914] Books and Literature 191 

deals with needle work lace. She shows it by several pleasantly written essays, 
and through a magnificent series of photographs from actual examples, taking its 
course from the first pale phantom which appears in a Gozzoli fresco, a mere bead- 
work between seams; becoming transparent in the drawn-thread work; richly 
interesting in the reticello, when the worker began to cut the linen away in definite 
spaces; and achieving its supreme note in piinlo in aria (stitch in air), the needle at 
last following superbly the pencil of Renaissance artists over ornament instinct with 
pagan grace and mediaeval romance. It is a gorgeous progression which the author 
invites amateur and connoisseur alike to witness. The second volume treats of 
bobbin-made lace in Italy; the provincial dialect, as it were, of the classic expression 

of the needlework lace. It may be seen in the best period of punto in aria 

Genoa and Milan rival Venice at this less personal but still beautiful art. And 

Hals and Rubens may be accounted its pictorial historians Nothing 

is more interesting in this Italian study than the glimpse of the French spirit which 
owed its chance to Colbert, Louis the Fourteenth's great minister. The fragile 
grace of Alcncon breaking through the stately dignity of Venice is written in the 
curious and most elegant language of lace. 'Old Italian Lace' must certainly be- 
come 'acknowledged literature' of the art." 

Cooking by G. A. S. Compiled by Miss Helen Edden. Edited by Mrs. M. A. 
Cloudesley Breretcn. The British Commerical Gas Association [n. d.]. Pp. 
126, figs. 20. 

A large part of this book is devoted to recipes. The most origmal section, how- 
ever, is that which concerns the choice of utensils for use for the gas stove and general 
directions for using this fuel. While the directions in general will have more point 
in places where gas is not so commonly used as in the United States, there are some 
suggestions which are novel even here and will be welcome. A number of sample 
menus are included. 

The New Cookery. By Lenna F. Cooper. Battle Creek, Michigan: Good Health 
Publishing Company, 1913, pp. 9, 298, pis. 5, Price $1.50. By mail of the 
Journal, $1.60. 

By "new cookery," the author means apparently the attempt to prepare, without 
the use of flesh foods, appetizing dishes which lead to a moderate as well as a low 
proteid diet. Milk, cheese (Neufchatel or similar type), and eggs are included in 
the food materials called for by the recipes, as well as conmiercial articles designed 
by the manufacturer as meat substitutes or as seasoning, etc. 

From the introduction it would seem that the author shares the belief sometimes 
stated that chronic diseases are due to a faulty diet and by implication to the use of 
a high proteid diet, particularly one containing flesh foods, or that such diseases 
are curable by diet. References are also made to certain other dietary theories and 
conclusions as if they were definitely established facts. The author has realized, 
as is too seldom the case in works on lacto-vegetarian and related cookery, that 
savoriness is an important part of food preparation, and the result is a collection 
of recipes (and recipes make up the bulk of the volume) in which this matter has 
received special consideration. Dependence is placed on onions, celery, and other 
seasoning vegetables, on fruits and fruit juices, lemon juice, sugar, and some specially 
manufactured products for seasoning, spice being mentioned in only a few of the 



102 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

recipes, and no use being made of such common seasonings as pepper, paprika, 
sweet green peppers, or pimientos. 

In the section on meat substitutes and entries, special reliance is placed on com- 
mercial preparations designed as meat substitutes, on nuts, and on dried legimies, 
and ver>' few of the many possible savory dishes which contain milk, eggs, Neuf- 
chatel cheese, etc., as their principal protein constituent are included. 

A peculiarity of the recipes is the use of definite amoimts of concentrated hydro- 
chloric acid and soda in place of an equivalent amount of baking powder. Con- 
centrated hydrochloric acid being a chemical used in the laboratory with caution, it 
would seem the part of wisdom to keep it out of the kitchen or, if hydrochloric acid 
is recommended at all, to use a dilute form. 

Besides the recipes, the volume contains brief discussions of cookery, cooking 
processes, fire and ranges, and similar topics, and a collection of menus for breakfast , 
dinner, supper, and luncheon, and for special occasions. The menus contain no 
flesh foods and are described as "balanced," the term apparently implying made 
up in such a way that low proteid foods predominate in the day's ration. Though 
it would not be possible to calculate this from the data in the book, it may be that it 
is also the author's belief that the energy value of the menu would be such that the 
ratio of protein energ>' to the energy of the rest of the diet would be in accord with 
some dietarj- standard, and so "balanced," for it is of course to such a ratio that the 
term "balanced" should be applied technically. 

The book is well WTitten and well edited, and has illustrations which are a help 
in suggestions as to pleasing ser\-ice besides adding to the attractiveness of the 
volume. 

Raisins, Figs, and Other Dried Fruits and Their use. By C. F. Langworthy, 
U. S. Dept. Agr. Yearbook 191 2, pp. 505-522. 

Information is summarized regarding the preparation and use of dried and evap- 
orated fruits, including apples, pears, prunes, peaches, apricots, cherries, raisins, 
figs, citron, dates, and others; the food value of dried fruits; ways of using them; 
and similar topics. The great importance of the American dried fruit industry is 
spoken of. 

The bulletin points out that whether used by themselves as substitutes for fresh 
or preser\-ed fruits, or mixed into cakes, puddings, confectionery, and other dishes, 
dried fruits offer a wholesome, nutritious, and economical way of securing variety in 
the diet, and are especially useful where the supply of fresh fruits is limited, or where 
storage space for fresh fruits is lacking. 

The Nature of Tea Infusions. By H. L. Smith. Lancet London, 1913, 1, no. 12, 
pp. 844, 846. 

This article reports and discusses data regarding the combination of the 
caffein and tannin in tea infusions. 

"In the hot tea infusion it may be concluded that caffein and tannin occur con- 
siderably hydrolyzed and in the free state." 

Experimental methods are described. 

Book of Recipes for the Domestic Science Department of the Altoona High 
School. By Zitella Wertz. Altoona, Pa.: 1913, pp. 85. 
A collection of recipes with blank pages for notes. 



1914] Books and Literature 193 

Suggestions for Diet Kitchen Equipment. By S. Wierzbicki. U. S. Naval 
Med. Bui., 4, 1910, No. 2, pp. 161-163, dgms. 2. 

A kitchen from which regular meals are to be distributed and in which light food 
can be prepared for patients and cooking done by a nurse for patients requiring 
nourishment between regular meal hours must serve "as a central distributing 
station for food brought from the main kitchen; as a place where food can be pre- 
pared for patients requiring nourishment between meal times; where staple articles 
for preparation of light diets are kept; and where ice is on hand for ward uses." 

The author describes in detail the equipment which has been planned to meet 
these requirements for the men's infirmary diet kitchen at the United States Naval 
Hospital at Las Animas, Colo., which includes an electric kitchen cabinet, steam 
table, ice box, and food trucks with trays. 

A ground plan is provided of the diet kitchen which shows what the author 
considers the most convenient arrangement of the stationary kitchen equipment. 
Various special devices are described. 

Concerning Heat Conductivity of Floors of Different Kinds. By F. Eichbauer. 
Gsndhts. Ingen., 35, 1912, No. 48. .'\bs. in Hyg. Rundschau, 23 ,1913, No. 20, 
pp. 1276,1277. 

WTien an animal body touches the floor, heat is lost by conduction. Since the 
contact is usually brief, the amount of heat given off depends less on the conduc- 
tivity of the whole floor material than on that of the upper layers. It is only when 
the contact is prolonged that the nature of the lower layers comes into question. 

The amount of heat carried away by the floor depends on the smoothness of the 
floor surface and on the material of which it is made. A rough floor has less con- 
ductivity than a smooth one, which explains the agreeable effect of cocoa matting 
on stone floors. 

In order to compare various materials, a smooth cement floor was chosen as 
standard and its conductivity rated as i. The higher the figure in the comparison, 
the lower the conductivity of the floor in question. The following values were 
found for the more important materials: Asphalt, 0.65; "terrazzo," 0.79; earth 
floor, 1. 18; "dorrit," 2.01; linoleum on cement, 1.19 to 1.44; cork tiling, 2.15 to 
2.39; parquet, 2.60 to 2.83. 

Exhibiting, Classifying and Judging Homemade Horticultural Products. 
By J. B. S. Norton. Hyattsville, Md: 1913, pp. 32. $0.25. 5 copies, $1. 

This study by Professor Norton, of the Maryland Agricultural College, of ex- 
hibits of homemade fruit products, is perhaps the most important contribution so far 
made to the problem of the use of score cards in Home Economics. Professor Norton 
has had several years' experience as a judge in handling such exhibits and he has 
been at pains to collect the experience of the various horticultural societies, colleges 
and other organizations which organize exhibits. His pamphlet discusses the prep- 
aration of an e.xhibit, methods of display, management, a classification of fruit 
products in some twenty groups with definitions, exhibitor's rules, judge's rules, 
scoring and score cards, educational features, and suggestions as to the preparation 
of fruit products. 



IQ4 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

Influence of Vegetables Greened with Copper Salts on the Nutrition and 
Health of Man. By Ira Remsen et al. U S. Dept Agr. Rpt. 97, pp. 461. 

This report of the Referee Board of Consulting Scientific Experts presents in 
detail and discusses the experimental data obtained in the four series of investiga- 
tions, namely "Action of Coppered Vegetables on the Health and Nutrition of 
Man," A. E. Taylor; Pp. 9-208.; " Investigations of the Effects of Foods Contain- 
ing Copper Compounds on the General Health and Metabolism of Man, J. H. Long; 
Pp. 209-430; "Absorption and Distribution of Copper when Coppered Vegetables 
are Eaten," R. H. Chittenden, Pp. 431-448; and "Histological Examination of the 
Tissues of Dogs and Monkeys," T. Smith, pp. 449-461. From a study of these 
four reports the Referee Board reached the following conclusion: 

" Copper salts used in the coloring of vegetables as in commercial practice can not 
be said to reduce, or lower, or injuriously affect the quality or strength of such vege- 
tables, as far as the food value is concerned. 

"Copper salts used in the greening of vegetables may have the effect of concealing 
inferiority, inasmuch as the bright green color imparted to the vegetables simulates a 
state of freshness they may not have possessed before treatment. 

"In attempting to define a large quantity of copper, regard must be had to the 
maximum amount of greened vegetables which might be consiuned daily. A daily 
dose of 100 grams of coppered peas or beans, which are the most highly colored vege- 
tables in the market, would not ordinarily contain more than 100 to 150 milligrams 
of copper. Such a bulk of greened vegetables is so large, however, that it would 
hardly be chosen as a part of a diet for many days in succession. Any amount of cop- 
per above 1 50 milligrams daily may therefore be considered excessive in practice. 
A small quantity is that amount which, in the ordinary use of vegetables, may be 
consumed over longer periods. From this point of view, 10 to 12 milligrams of cop- 
per may be regarded as the upper limit of a small quantity. 

"It appears from oiu- investigations that in certain directions even such small 
quantities of copper may have a deleterious action and must be considered injurious 
to health.' 

How I Kept my Baby Well. By Anna G. Noyes. Baltimore: Warwick and York 
Pp.193. $1-25. By mail of the Journal, $1.30. 

Mrs. Noyes" little book gives to the public a good working plan for keeping an 
exhaustive record of a baby's life for its first two years. 

There is much to be commended in this effort to show young mothers how much 
may be accomplished by jotting down a part of what every careful mother notices 
and too often forgets when the knowledge of it would be useful. Mrs. Noyes' 
methods were her o^vn but she worked under the advice of her physician. This 
fact is frequently noted and yet it might have been well had she more distinctly 
warned the young mother attempting to copy her methods that she must not sub- 
stitute her own conclusions and treatment for skilled advice. It is rarely safe to 
assume that any symptom comes from a probable cause unless possible causes have 
been eliminated by examination. 

The record-keeping although it may seem to some unnecessarily detailed, is very 
careful and the book is both interestmg and valuable. 



1914] Books and Literature 195 

Nerve Waste. By George VanNess Dearborn, M.D. Boston: Health Education 
League, 1913, pp. 29. Price 7 cents, $4.50 per 100. 

Health of the School Child. By Robert W. Hastings, M.D. 1913, pp. 24. 
Price 6 cents, $3.75 per 100. 

These two pamphlets are the most recent of the Health-Education series. 

In "Nerve-Waste" the plan is to present the credit and debit sides of our nerve- 
force. The value of sleep, adequate nourishment, and suitable work is shown on 
the one side and the effect of worry, disorder, monotony, and over-stimulation, on 
the other. 

"Health of School Children" was written to call attention to, and offer sugges- 
tions for the prevention of, the many handicaps, in the way of physical ills, with 
which most school children have to contend. 

Common Diseases. ByWoods Hutchinson, A.M., M.D. Boston and New York: 
Houghton MiflSin Company. The Riverside Press Cambridge, 1913. $1.50. 
By mail of the Journal, $1.62. 

Dr. Woods Hutchinson interests, entertains, and instructs regarding many of the 
common diseases which are and some which are not. He always writes with frank- 
ness, with humor and with joyous versatility. At times in the desire to be pleasant, 
to give encouragement, or to inject hope, statements occur which are not directly 
in accord with the accurate records of fact. It is scarcely true, for example, to sug- 
gest that the person with adipose tissues in middle life has at least "a ten to twenty 
per cent greater chance of survival to a good old age than the thin, spare and ner- 
vous one. " In considering the liver, he has assumed much that is unproven and 
building upon this has built up a large field of hepatic influence which makes good 
reading regardless of its scientific basis. 

The topics covered represent many of the contributions which have appeared in 
journals but the compilation is most excellent and includes, among others, Dys- 
pepsia, Catarrh, our National Nasal Luxury, Asthma and Hay Fever, The Unwis- 
dom of Worry, Insomnia and Insomniacs, Imaginary Diseases and their Inventors, 
and The Prevention of Old Age. 

The current of good nature that pervades his writings carries the reader along so 
that he may view with equanimity the verbal scenes the writer offers. Shams are 
attacked, charlatans are opposed and insanity and inanity are thundered against. 
It is unfortunate that so powerful a writer, one who stands out in the public eye as a 
speaker, a lecturer, and an author should at times appear to sacrifice accuracy for 
effect or give the impression of seeking to gratify lay whims at any cost. This is 
particularly regrettable because his volumes are popular among those whose familiar- 
ity with the essential imderlying facts must necessarily be limited. If the literal 
values were as great as the literary values, criticism save of an appreciative nature 
would be almost impossible. 

Country Life Conveniences and Enjoyments. Edited by H. M. Skinner and 
A. L. McCredie. Library of Agriculture, Chicago, 1912, vol. 8, pp. 502, figs. 61. 

This book is made up chiefly of reprints of farmers' bulletins of the United States 
Department of Agriculture. 



BOOKS RECEIVED 

Practical Dietetics. By Alida Frances Pattee. Mt. Vemon, N. Y.. A. F. Pattee. 
$i.So. With Handbag Diet Book, $1.75. 

Food and Household Management. By Helen Kinne and Anna M. Cooley. 
New York : Macmillan and Company. $1.10. By mail of the Journal, $1.22. 

Simple Garments foi Children. By M. B. Synge. New York: Longmans, 
Green and Con-.oany. Patterns 10, $1.25. By mail of the Joiunal, $1.30. 

How to Cook in Casserole Dishes. By Marion H. Neil. Philadelphia: David 
McKay. $1.00. By mail of the Journal, $1.10. 

Markets for the People. By J. W. Sullivan. New York: Macmillan and Com- 
pany. Si. 25. By mail of the Journal, $1.35. 

A Self-Supporting Home. By Kate V. St. Maur. New York: Macmillan and 
Company S0.50. By mail of the Joimial, ^0.58. 

Low Cost American Homes. By Fred. T. Hodgson. Chicago: Drake and Com- 
pany. $1.00. By mail of the Journal, $1.10. 

The Cost of Living. American Academy of Political and Social Science. Phila- 
delphia, 1913. Paper, $1.00 Cloth, $1.50. By mail of the Journal, $1.10 or 
S1.60. 

Modern Cities. By Horatio Pollock and William Morgan. New York: Funk and 
Wagnalls Company. $1.50. By mail of the Journal, $1.62. 

Sanitation Water Supply and Sewage. By William Paul Gerhard. New York: 
Van Nostrand Company. S2.00. By mail of the Journal, $2.15. 

Disposal of Household Waste. By William Paul Gerhard. New York: Van 
Nostrand Company. $0.50. By mail of the Journal, $0.54. 

Files and Mosquitoes. By William Paul Gerhard. New York: Van Nostrand 
Company. S0.25. By mail of the Journal, $0.27. 

Rearing an Imperial Race. By Charles E. Hecht. London: The St. Catherine 
Press. 7s. 6d. 

Young Working Girls. By Robert A Woods and Albert J. Kennedy. Boston: 
Houghton Mifflin Company. $1.00. By mail of the Journal, $1.08. 

Vocations for Girls. By E. W. Weaver. New York: The A. S. Barnes Company. 
$0.75. By mail of the Journal, $0.80. 

The Vocation of Woman. By Archibald Coloquhoun. New York: Macmillan 
and Company. $1.50. By mail of the Journal, $1.60. 

A Survey of the Woman Problem. By Rosa Mayreder. New York: George 
H. Doran Company. Si. 50. By mail of the Journal, Si. 62. 

Financing the Wage-Earner's Family. By Scott Nearing. New York: B. 
W. Huebsch. $1.25. By mail of the Journal, $1.30. 

Medical Inspection of Schools. By Luther H. Gulick, M.D., and Leonard P. 
Ayres, Ph.D. New York: The Survey Associates. $1.50. By mail of the 
Journal, $1.62. 

Social Work in Hospitals. By Ida M. Carmon. New York: The Survey Asso- 
ciates. $1.30 By mail of the Journal, $1.58. 

196 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 

The annual meeting and luncheon of the Home Economics Association of Greater 
New York was held January 24, 1914. Only about fifty were in attendance as 

the weather was most unfavorable. 
Greater New The speeches were short and very informal. Mrs. Walter 

York Home Eco- L. Hervey spoke on "The Training of Girls in Norway." Mrs. 
nomics Asso- Hervey's visits to typical Norwegian homes made her talk full 
elation of close personal touch. She commended most strongly the 

close companionship of mother and daughter and the helpful 
spirit of the Nonvegian mother toward the teacher of Home Economics in the 
schools. 

Miss Laura Drake Gill outlined briefly the educational ideals and policies upon 
which she is organizing the Home Economics work in the University of the South. 
The happy combination of college education and general preparation for a vocation 
will be most pleasing to those interested in the Home Economics field. 

Miss Isabel Ely Lord spoke briefly emphasizing the need for devising schemes 
for raising money for the Ellen H. Richards Fund. 

The results of the annual election of officers were as follows: President, Miss 
Cora M. Winchell; First Vice-President, Miss Meriel Willard; Second Vice-Presi- 
dent, Dr. B. R. Andrews; Secretary-Treasurer, Miss Florence E. Winchell, 176 
Elm Avenue, Mount Vernon, New York; Executive Committee, Mr. Bailey Bur- 
ritt; Nominating Committee, Miss Ruth Atwater, Miss Emilie C. Pratt, Miss 
Ikelheimer, Miss Kalbfleish, and Miss Jane Fales. 

A general meeting of the Association was held January 31, in the High School 
of Practical Arts, Roxbury, Massachusetts. 

After the business meeting the subject, "How the School 
New England Meets the Needs of the Home," was discussed by Mrs. Ripley, 
Home Econom- Assistant Superintendent Boston Public Schools; Miss McCom- 
ics Association key. Public Schools, Springfield, Mass.; Miss Comstock, Pro- 
fessor of Home Economics, Amherst Agricultural CoUege; and 
Mr. Weaver, Principal Practical Arts High School, Roxbury. Several other 
speakers described the work of continuation, part-time and trade schools. The 
building was open for inspection from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. Luncheon was served by 
the pupils, after which there was a general discussion. Secretary, Lillie C. Smith, 
Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass. 



197 



jp8 The Journal oj Home Economics [April 

A meeting of the Executive Board of the Michigan Home Economics Associa- 
tion was held at the Michigan Agricultural College, East Lansing, on the after- 
noon of November 22, to discuss the matter of the program and 
Michigan Home the place of the next annual meeting. 

Econoinics The following tentative program was decided upon : " Women 

Association as Wage-Earners," Dr. Sophonisba P. Breckenridge, of the 

Chicago University; "The Training of Hospital Dietitians," Dr 
Reuben Peterson, Head of the Medical Department of the University of Michi- 
gan; "Report of the Work in Home Economics by the Michigan Federation of 
Women's Clubs," Mrs. Mcintosh, Chairman; and "Outline of a Course in House 
Decoration as Worked Out at the Michigan Agricultural College," Mrs. L. D. 
Peppard, of Michigan Agricultural College. Miss Lauretta Morrissey was ap- 
pointed chairman of a committee to make a survey of domestic science taught in 
the high schools of Michigan, to be given at the annual meeting in May. The 
Secretary was instructed to invite Miss Zoa Wimple, State Inspector of Foods, 
Washington, a former student at the Michigan Agricultural College and a graduate 
of the Household Arts Department of the Michigan State Normal College, to send 
an outline of the work covered by her office with suggestions for some organized 
work in Michigan. 

The place of the annual meeting was not definitely decided upon, but the feeling 
of the Executive Board was that the invitation of Detroit should be accepted and 
that tliere should be three sessions, beginning Friday evening and closing Saturday 
afternoon. 

Another meeting of the executive committee of the Michigan Home Economics 
Association was held in Ypsilanti, early in March. The committee was invited to 
visit the Household Arts Department of the Normal College, especially the class 
preparing the daily luncheon for one hundred pupils of the Training School, and 
the class in invalid cookery serving the food to the sick students in charge of the 
college nurse in Health Cottage, a new bfirmary on the campus. The latter class 
has made a week's menu for the Ypsilanti Anti-tuberculosis Association which the 
association has had printed and copyrighted for sale at five cents a copy to those 
interested in the feeding of tubercular patients. Secretary, Mrs. M.'H. French, 
Ypsilanti, Mich. 

The annual meeting of the Iowa Home Economics Association was held in Des 
Moines, November 6 and 7, 1913. 

The first session was on Thursday afternoon in the Y. W. 
Iowa Home C. A. building, with Miss Knowles presiding. 

Economics The program was carried out as planned. Most interesting 

Association as well as helpful addresses were given by Miss Schermerhorn, 
Iowa State College; Prof. Ruth Wardell, Iowa University; and 
Mrs. E. B. Wilson of Jefferson. 

Following the last address an opportunity was given to view the beautiful col- 
lection of pictures that was presented by Mrs. Wilson. 

A reception was then given to the members and friends, by the Home Economics 
teachers of Des Moines. This was much enjoyed by every one present. 

The program Friday morning included some excellent addresses. All were glad 
to hear Mr. Mahannah, State Inspector of Home Economics in High Schools, 



1914I News from the Field 



199 



talk on "Home Economics in Relation to Normal Training in High Schools." 
Miss Grimsby of the Municipal Courts of Chicago gave a most interesting talk on 
"Some City Problems which Home Economics Should Help to Solve." 

Following this a very helpful question bo.x was conducted by Miss Young of 
Cedar Falls and Miss Tidd of Des Moines. 

At the close of the program the annual business meeting was held, at which the 
following officers were elected for the coming year: President, Miss Katherine 
McKay, I. S. C, Ames, Iowa; Vice-President, Miss Alice Heinz, Waterloo, Iowa; 
Secretary and Treasurer, Mrs. Marian Barr, Des Moines, Iowa; Representative 
Councilor, Miss Ruth Wardell, S. U. I., Iowa City, Iowa. 

The Home Economics Club has held regular monthly meetings during the 
year and has been making a study of local conditions — Michigan child labor laws, 
the new housing code and clean food. Richards Day was ob- 
Grand Rapids served with an informal program and the club voted to con- 
Home Econom- tribute ten dollars to the Memorial Fund. 

ics Club The club members are largely professional people, there- 

fore it is their plan to concern themselves with subjects of vital 
interest to the homemakers. They are affiliated with the larger women's clubs of 
the city who are willing to continue any work outlined by the Home Economics 
Club, such as city inspection of milk and meat and the clean food campaign. 
Secretary, Mrs. Elizabeth Slaght, 5 Mt. Vernon Avenue, Grand Rapids, Mich. 

The Indiana Home Economics Association held their annual convention in 
January at Purdue University, Lafayette, Ind. Ihe convention was largely 

and enthusiastically attended by about 400 women. The line 
Indiana Home of work adopted for the current year is "modernizing the farm 
Economics home." Special efifort is to be made to form "Door- Yard and 

Association Garden Clubs" among boys and girls. The association asks 

the help of both men and women who are interested in the 
movement for better living and happier homes. The officers are glad to answer 
letters, suggest plans for local organization, and furnish a list of useful bulletins. 
Secretary, Mrs. Lewis Taylor, Newburgh, Ind. 

The annual meeting of the Ohio Association was held in Townsend Hall, Ohio 
State University, February 12-14. 

The program included school visiting, and discussions of 
Ohio Home vocational work, domestic art, domestic science, household 

Economics bacteriology and similar subjects, in regard to their proper 

Association presentation in class. 

The committee in charge felt gratified in securing as speakers, 
wide-awake workers who brought much that was helpful from their own experiences. 

In arranging the topics, the association anticipated the time in the near future 
when a imiform course of study in Home Economics will be adopted for Ohio. 
Secretary, Lana Bishop, Technical High School, Cleveland, Ohio. 

IDEPARTJ/iJfcJ^T 



tOLbLh^LU SCIENCE 



200 



The Journal of Home Economics [April 



The Home Economics Association of Connecticut held its regular business meet- 
ings as usual in May and October of the past year. There was 
Connecticut a good attendance at both of these meetings which were most 

Home Economics interesting and helpful. A great increase in membership is 
Association shown. Secretary, Leda G. Prindle, 5 Adelaide Street, Hart- 

ford, Conn. 

The Household Arts Club of the University of Nebraska hold a meeting once 
each month at which time topics of interest are selected for the program. The 
December meeting consisted of a memorial program for Mrs. 
The Univer- ^^^^ ^ Richards and at the January meeting letters were read 
^ y from most of the former members of the club. 

Nebraska During the week of Organized Agriculture in January the Home 

Houseno Economics Department of the University offered short courses in 

Arts L u Domestic Science and in Domestic Art in the forenoons and in the 

afternoons the Home Economics Association of the state held its meetings. Inter- 
esting talks were given on the Better Babies Movement, Pure Food Laws of the 
State, and Boys and Girls Club Work in Nebraska. During these meetings an 
effort was made to increase the collection of heirlooms and curios for the De- 
partment of Home Economics. 

The Department of Home Economics at Comdl University conducted a Home- 
makers' Conference during Farmers' Week, February 9 to 14. For several years 
a large niunber of women have been at Cornell during Farmers' 
, " , Week. Lectures and demonstrations have been presented on the 

subjects of foods, sanitation, household art, and household manage- 
ment. This year lectures were given by members of the depart- 
ment staff, and by outside lecturers from the Department of Agriculture, from 
Simmons College and elsewhere. Throughout the week there were exhibitions 
of work done by the regular students of the department. An extension school was 
conducted during five days of the week for residents outside of Ithaca who wished 
to take courses in food preparation. The food laboratories in the Home Economics 
Building were used for this purp>ose. 

Organizations especially interested in Home Economics made the Home Eco- 
nomics Building their headquarters during Farmers' Week. Opportunity was 
given for meetings of different organizations having imder consideration domestic 
science or subjects pertaining to home life. 

The lecturers for the Home Economics Week, February 9 to 13, at the Uni- 
versity of Texas were representatives from the National Consimiers League, Medical 

School, University of Illinois, Columbia University, and the faculty 
Home Eco- of the University of Texas, 
nomics Week The week was given up to exhibits, lectures and demonstrations 

dealing with social problems such as recreation, working hours of 
women and children, the high cost of living, wages and morality, modem dress, 
hygiene, community sanitation; school problems in regard to the school luncheon 
and the teaching of various branches of Home Economics; and home problems 
such as marketing, the serving of food, the family table, labor-saving devices, 
and house decoration. 



1914] News from the Field 201 

The educational exhibit illustrating the various phases of Home Economics 
was open to the public each day throughout the week in the Domestic Economy 
Building. The faculty of the department were at home in the building every after- 
noon from four to six to meet the Home Economics visitors, and to explain fully 
the nature of the exhibits. 

The seventh annual meeting of the Missouri Home Makers' Conference, which 
met at Columbia, January 13-16, was one of unusual interest. Reports were 
given from the Farm Congresses at Tulsa and Ghent, and from 
Home Makers' contests and clubs all over the state. Other features were: 
Conference babies' health contest and exhibits of farm and home products, 

judging being done in each case by score cards; demonstrations 
by boys' and girls' clubs; and marching, games and dances by the children of the 
University Elementary School. 

Home topics were discussed, such as "Courtesies in the Home," "Influence of 
Good Music and Pictures in the Home," "Training of Children," and "The Rela- 
tion of the Home to the School." 

There were also special meetings for those interested in poultry raising and 
dairying. One session was held in conjunction with the Rural Life Conference. 

The first Institute for Teachers of Home Science was held at the Industrial 

Institute and College, Columbus, Mississippi, in February, 19 13. This was so 

well attended and resulted in such renewed enthusiasm, both 

Home Science for the visiting teachers and for those at the college, that it 

Institute was decided to make this Institute a permanent feature of the 

school year. 

In the February Institute for 1914 the general object of the meetings was 
a discussion of what a well defined course in Home Science should embrace. The 
planning and decoration of the home was studied and concrete illustrations 
given at the new practice home, "Kanahoah." 

The industries of the home, such as cooking, sewing and gardening, were dis- 
cussed in lectures and round tables. 

Men and women prominent in the work gave us their ideas of the educational 
significance of the Home Economics movement. 

All teachers of Home Science in Mississippi were invited to be present. Ar- 
rangements were made for their accommodation in the College Dormitory. 

Omicron Nu, the senior honorary society, for the promotion of Home Economics 
of the New York State Normal College at Albany, New York, had the exercises in 
charge for the observance of Home Economics Day in this city. 
Richards Day The society was especially fortunate in having Miss Anna M. 
at Albany Cooley of Teachers College, Columbia University, as the chief 

speaker on the program. Her subject was "Personal Recol- 
lections of Mrs. Ellen H. Richards," a theme which she was peculiarly fitted to 
present to us on account of her intimate associations with Mrs. Richards. 

Besides several musical numbers a short talk on the origin of Home Economics 
was given by the President of Omicron Nu. An informal tea and reception fol- 
lowed the program, and those present had the opportunity of personally meeting 
Miss Cooley, as well as many leaders of the Home Economics movement in the 
Albany schools. Secretary, Abby C. Franklin. 



202 



The Journal of Home Economics [April 



A class of twelve students at Mills College, Cal, made and boxed thirty-five 
pounds of candy December 2 and sold it December 3, after a short meeting to 
commemorate the day. The total receipts, $11.65, were added to 
Richards Day at the Richards Memorial Fund. At present, students numbering 
Mills College seventy are registered in classes in the Home Economics Depart- 
ment, and about half as many more are taking the chemistry 
which is a prerequisite to cooking. This is a 9 per cent increase over the registra- 
tion of a year ago and the outlook is encouraging. 

Five open lectures on school feeding were given at Teachers College, Columbia 
University, during February and March by Miss Alice C. Boughton, Superintend- 
ent of the Philadelphia Elementary School Lunches. The lec- 
Teacners ^^^^^ covered the details of organization and management of 

College meals, and the educational advantages of school feeding, as well 

Lectures ^^ ^^ professional opportunities which it offers. 

All interested were invited to attend, and a brief discussion followed each lec- 
ture. 

Several bills are before Congress regarding " fraud in commodities in interstate 
commerce." Hearings are being held and the evidence published. AU persons 

who are interested in the economics of purchasing should secure 
Fraud in copies of the hearings through their congressman, or through 

Commodities Hon. Francis Lindquist, U. S. House of Representatives, who 

is the author of one of the bills. Textiles, shoes, and watches 
have already been the subjects of inquiry. 

Four hundred men and women of national prominence shared in the sessions 
of the National Conference on Race Betterment held in Battle Creek, January 

8-12. 
The National Broadly di\dded, the considerations of the conference were 

Conference on eugenics and euthenics. The latter word, aptly coined by Mrs. 
Race Better- Ellen H. Richards was heard as frequently in the conference 
ment deliberations as that newer definition of the science of being 

well bom — eugenics. 

No attempt was made at this conference to formulate a eugenic or euthenic 
creed, but the various addresses go to show that the mass judgment of the confer- 
ence is that in addition to being eugenically bom, the individual, to attain physical 
and mental perfection and his completest usefulness, must also be euthenically 
reared. Simple, every-day matters of diet, household cleanliness and other phases 
of domestic economics were discussed by the conference. 

An interesting address was delivered by Mrs. Melvil Dewey, of the American 
Home Economics Association. Among other things, Mrs. Dewey said: "Eu- 
thenics is the name proposed by Mrs. Ellen H. Richards for the preliminary 
science on which eugenics must be based; it seeks to emphasize the immediate 
duty of man to better his conditions by availing himself of knowledge already at 
hand which shall tend to increase health and happiness. He must apply this 
knowledge under conditions which he can either create or modify. Euthenics is to 
be developed through sanitary science, through education, and through relating 
science and education to life. 



1914] News from the Field 203 

"Mrs. Richards strongly urged the education of all women in the principles of 
sanitary science, as the key to race progress in the twentieth century. Sanitary 
science, above all others, when applied, benefits the whole people, and raises the 
level of productive life. As long ago as 1892 the president of the British Medical 
Association said: 'The whole future progress of sanitary movement rests, for its 
permanent and executive support, upon the women of our land.' .... 

"However far the science of eugenics may carry the race towards perfection, 
unless its sister science, euthenics, goes hand in hand, the race will again deterior- 
ate as surely as it has in the past. Accepting them together, as guiding principles 
in the evolution of life, man may yet build for himself a temple worthy of an uncon- 
querable soul." 

Concerning this Conference we quote in addition from an editorial in the Jour- 
nal of the American Medical Association of January 17. 

"The purpose of the Battle Creek Conference, as officially stated, was 'to assem- 
ble evidence as to the extent to which degenerative tendencies are actively at 
work in America and to promote agencies for race betterment.' Under the first 
head were papers on apparent increase in degenerative diseases, the causes of the 
declining birth-rate, crime, deterioration of civilized women, factory degeneration, 
alcohol and tobacco, social evil, and delinquent and defective children. On the 
constructive side were discussions on eugenics in many of its phases. The pro- 
gram impressed one as being overloaded on the degenerative side — possibly be- 
cause of an overemphasis of the subject at the present time — and as too much 
given over to a discussion of the past and present conditions rather than of con- 
structive plans for the future. The general effect left on the mind of the listener 
was that the many papers and addresses, most of them excellent in themselves, 
were not correlated and were written often from conflicting, if not contradictory 
points of view, while many of those in attendance impressed the careful obser\'er 
as being earnest rather than informed, and zealous rather than discriminating. 
The impressive, undeniable fact, however, is that they were there. It is possible 
today for the first time in the history of civilization to call and to hold a conference 
to discuss, not time-worn dogmas or even present-day needs, but future possibili- 
ties. From this point of view, such conferences must command the careful atten- 
tion of the student of social development. 

"Whatever one may think of the individual views expressed, or of the immediate, 
concrete results of such gatherings, the fact is in itself significant that such a con- 
ference, extending over five days and attended by thousands of people, is possible. 
Never before in the history of civilization have there been so many men and women 
who were earnestly, sincerely and unselfishly laboring for the general good. One 
may criticize their reasoning, dissect their statistics or draw from their premises 
entirely different conclusions, but the important fact remains that such confer- 
ences, which are becoming increasingly frequent, would have been impossible and 
practically inconceivable a generation ago. The pessimist and the critic see in 
such gatherings only another symptom of universal unrest and discontent. The 
optimist sees in them faintly foreshadowed the dawning of the age of which Teimy- 
son sang, when each man's good shall be aU men's aim. 



204 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

The Third Vocational Conference on Opportunities for Women in Occupations 
other than teaching was held under the auspices of the women students of the 
University of Wisconsin at Madison, Wis., February ii, 12, 13. 
Vocational Prominent professional women addressed the Conference on 

Conference their respective occupations, and gave an insight into profes- 

sional life. 

According to Miss Helen Bennett, Manager of Chicago Bureau of Occupations, 
"Every college woman today has to choose a profession. First, she finds it a 
financial necessity; second, she wants to preserve her self-respect and intellectual 
interest; and third, she wants to develop herself by doing something with her 
valuable education. 

"In choosing a profession, she must take stock of her capabilities and be honest 
with herself. Her college education is merely a foundation upon which she needs 
to build up her profession. A psychological attitude of interest, enthusiasm, and 
perseverance are her greatest aid in winning out in her profession." 

The Chicago Bureau of Occupations for Women is working for the economic 
development of women's occupations. It investigates various lines of work and 
offers vocational guidance in placing women in professions at a commission of 3 
per cent of the first year's salary, with a registration fee of one dollar. 

Mrs. Annette McCrae, the first landscape architect of America, attributed 
attainment of success in any profession to determination, concentration, and a 
spirit of 'never let go." 

Noted representatives from the various fields occupied by women gave their 
opinions and suggestions. Some of the recommendations are noted here for the 
consideration of enterprising women. 

Opportunities in secretarial work are many, such as business, visiting, social, 
and private secretary. The training for secretarial work ought to consist of a 
college education, travel, business experience, and self-training in conscientious 
effort and alert observation. The more technical training should include stenogra- 
phy, typewriting, double entry bookkeeping, card cataloguing and filing. Secre- 
taries receive salaries varying from $ioco to $5000 a year. 

The state offers a wide opportunity in civil service, in positions calling for clerks 
and clerical assistants, investigators, and managers of institutions. In the cities, 
positions are offered for sanitary inspectors, truant ofl&cers, playgroxmd directors, 
librarians, and social workers. 

These positions demand technical training in various lines, such as physical cul- 
ture, sociology, civics, philanthropy, or institutional management. A year of 
practical experience as investigator, clerk, or social worker is usually required. 
The salaries vary from $600 to $2000 per year. 

The kinds of federal positions offered are those for institutional managers, 
matrons and nurses in state hospitals and asylums; teachers in state schools and 
reformatories; investigators and field workers; inspectors of state institutions, fac- 
tories, and labor conditions; and organizers of welfare work. A college education 
with special study of sociolog>% economics, and political science, supplemented with 
earnest endeavor in practical experience is necessary for social service. Salaries 
vary from $900 to S1800, the most common being about $1200. 

Nursing is one of the many professions in which women undoubtedly excel men. 
A nurse must have a wide breadth of sympathy; she must be strong, physically 



1914] News from the Field 205 

and mentallj'; she must be patient, tactful, tolerant, and kind, and should have a 
thorough educational foundation. The salaries of nurses, especially those having 
a college education, are good, and depend greatly on the kind of work done. 

Opportunities are offered in public health nursing, in social service and welfare 
work, and in secretarial work as well as in private and hospital nursing. 

Our cities need good housekeeping as well as do our homes. Excessive smoke, 
filth, unsanitary food supplies, and improper sewage disposal are conditions in the 
cities which increase the death rate and lower human efficiency. Such conditions 
need the supervision and care of the municipal housekeeper. 

The position of farm expert is a comparatively new one among the many posi- 
tions capably filled by women. North Dakota, in its progressive steps toward 

rural improvement, has appointed to this position Miss Mil- 
Farm Woman dred Veitch, a university woman and a farmer. Her work will 
Expert be especially directed toward the farm home into which she 

will seek to introduce the best labor-saving devices. She will 
also give advice in home management and try to bring about among the farm women 
such an attitude toward their work that drudgery wiU be eliminated and the women 
will find time to meet together for helpful discussion. 

Ten boys at Sparks, Md., are hoping and working for the realization of the 

Oread School of Country Life. They credit Mr. B. H. Crockeron with the plan 

for a school to teach boys how to make a good living on the 

Oread School land, and to instiU into them a love for the country so that 

they will go back to their respective neighborhoods inspired to 

"plow, preach or teach the doctrine of their school — a better coimtry life." 

Mr. B. H. Cocheron, who is now profes.sor of extension work in the University 
of California, inspired the boys beside their frequent camp-fires when he was in 
Sparks where the community was practically reconstructed by his ability to solve 
or transform any problem that presented itself. Mr. Crocheron has promised to 
return and head the school as soon as the boys get the funds. The boys are pro- 
gressing rapidly, both in amounts collected and sympathy gained. They have the 
cooperation of many noted men, such as Mr. Joseph Wing, rural expert; Dr. W. 
A. Spillman, U. S. Department of Agriculture; Mr. Gifford Pinchot, former chief 
forester; and prominent business men of Baltimore. 

A board of regents has been appointed to advise on the questions which arise 
and it is proposed that the school become a National School of Country Life. 

A most important gathering in the interest of the armihUation of commercial- 
ized vice and the promotion of social and personal purity was the Seventh Inter- 
p . national Purity Congress. It was held last November in Min- 

_, neapolis, Minn., under the direction of the World's Purity 

Concress r > > 

Federation, with the cooperation of government oflBcials and 

eminent reformers and philanthropists. This federation and its former interna- 
tional gatherings have done much to bring about the present agitation against 
the social evil and to create an intelligence which makes possible a sane discussion 
of such problems. 



2o6 The Journal of Home Economics [April 

The Nru) York Times reports that the Ottoman government has decided to 
admit women to the universities, where a special course of 
Home Econom- lectures on hygiene, domestic economy, and the rights of women 
ics in Turkey will be delivered for their benefit. 

In enlightened Ottoman circles the government's new meas- 
ure is regarded as an appropriate means for regenerating the world of Islam and 
placing it on a level with the civilization of the West. 

In the Lotidon News^ we find this report of progress in Japan: 

"The so-called 'new woman' is in evidence in Japan, as almost everywhere else. 

In 1900 there was opened in Tokio a large University for women. Every subject is 

dealt with there, and schools of commerce, agriculture, and in- 

Progress in dustry generally form a part of it. There are various other signs 

Japan of the times. ISIiss Aki-ko, who founded the Bluestockings' 

Club of Japan, for example, has published several novels and gives 

lectures, although she has not adopted European dress. The club publishes a 

monthly review." 

The frontispiece of this Jottrnal shows the food laboratory at the Tokio Uni- 
versity for Women an illustration that accompanied the report. 

ANNUAL MEETING OF THE AMERICAN HOME 
ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 

June 30-JxjLY 3, 1914 

The Western Resen-e University, Cleveland, Ohio, has offered us 
hospitality for the annual meeting. As the Institution Economics 
Section will not meet at the same time, the meeting will not cover so 
many days as the last one. It \ri]l open Tuesday evening, June 30, 
and continue until Friday noon, July 3. The arrangement of last 
year, whereby one-third of the day will be left free, will again be 
made. 

The Western Reserve dormitories will acconmiodate ninety of those 
in attendance, and the rest can be cared for at the Young Woman's 
Christian Association in Cleveland. Exact data as to cost cannot 
be given yet, but living expenses for the three days need not exceed 
Sio. There will be no attempt to secure special railroad rates, as it 
was proved last year that not enough people took advantage of the 
offer to make it possible to get such rates. 

As the 191 5 meeting is to be in Seattle, those who cannot attend 
that should avail themselves of the opportunity to go to Cleveland. 
Last year's meeting was the most successful in the history of the 
Association, but this year's promises to be fully as interesting. 

* lUustraled London News, American edition, $3, 1913, no. 1388, p. 887. 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Home, Institution, School 

KDITOR MANAGING EDITOR 

Mrs. Mary H. Adkl Kp.turafi R. Baldwin 

EDITORIAL BOARD 

Benj. R. Andrews C. F. Lancworthy 

Isabel Ely Lord 

COLLABORATORS 
The Officers and Members of the Council 

Vol. VI JUXE, 19 1 4 Xo. 3 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

The training of the school dietitian, Caroline L. Hunt 207 

The administration of school hinchc- in cities, Alice Houghton 2\t, 

I'ousehold science in secondary schools, Florence and ^fericl Willard 218 

Pure textiles, L. II. Dewey 222 

The relation of house planning to Home Economics, Helen Binkcrd Voung 22Q 

Present tendencies in household arts teaching, Helen Kinne 233 

Some recent experiments in the teaching of foods and sanitation, Cora ^I. 

Winchell , 23 ^ 

The nee 1 of home economics in education, 241 

The equipment of the Washington Irving High School, Edythe M. Pownall . 245 

I'ubli;- baths in large cities, Thomas M. Beadonkoff 249 

Health hints for summer, H. W. Hill 252 

The need of trained assistants in the home, ]Mary V. Shailer 258 

Home canning, Grace E. Stevens 261 

A distinguished worker in the chemistry of food and nutrition, C. F. Lang- 
worthy 266 

Editorials 268 

Annual meeting 268 

Housekeepers' deparimcnt 271 

Bibliography for Home Economics literature 291 

Hooks and literature 295 

Books received 304 

News from the field 305 



The Journal of Home Economics is published five times during the year, February, April, 
June October, December, by the American Home Economics Association. 

$2.00 A YEAR. FOREIGN $2.25. SINGLE COPIES 50 CENTS. 

HOW TO RE.MIT. Remittances should be sent In- Draft on New York, E.xpress Order, or 
I'ostal Money Order, payable to the .American Home Economics Association. Currency, unless 
mailed in a registered letter, is at the sender's risk. 

CHANGE IN ADDRESS. Notice of change in address should be sent Two Weeks before 
the date of issue on which the change is to take effect. The change cannot be made unless the 
subscriber's Old Address is clearly indicated in addition to the New Address. 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 
Roland Park Branch, Baltimore, Md. 

Entered as second class matter at the Baltimore Post Office. 



THE 

Journal^/Home Economics 

Vol. VI JUNE, 1914 No. 3 

THE TRAINING OF THE SCHOOL DIETITIAN ^ 

Caroline L. Hunt 
Expert in Nutrition 

In entering upon a discussion of the training of the school dietitian, 
it is safe to begin with the statement that if terms are to be strictly 
defined, the school dietitian has hardly an existence today. It is 
safe to say, also, that so rapidly is public opinion growing in favor 
of expert supervision of school feeding that the time cannot be far 
distant when the school dietitian will have a position in the educational 
system as well recognized as that of the teacher. Since, therefore, the 
dietitian is imminent, the time has arrived when those who are looking 
forward to her coming may profitably form ideals for her qualifications 
and for the training which should be expected of her. Since, on the 
other hand, she is still but the creature of our hopes, these ideals will 
of necessity be as varied as the imaginations of those who form them. 
Any statement, therefore, of that which should constitute the train- 
ing of the school dietitian is likely to be colored by personal opinion 
and can at best serve only as a subject for debate. 

The statement that the dietitian has not as yet come into being 
should not be taken to mean that there are not today in connection 
with school Ivmch rooms many positions, that of manager for example, 
quite as honorable and important as the place which the dietitian 
will fill. There is no question here of comparative importance but 
rather of difference in function. In truth those who have gone before 

* Presented at the Fourth International Congress on School Hygiene, Buffalo, 
1913- 

207 



2o8 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

the dietitian have, by their recognition of new educational needs and 
by intelligent devotion to the welfare of the children, given us the 
very building stones out of which our ideals are being formed. Even 
Miss Matty, benignly presiding over her little shop in Cranford and 
selling almond comfits to children at a financial loss to herself 
"because the little things liked them so much," and substituting 
ginger and peppermint lozenges at an equal financial loss when per- 
suaded that ahnond comfits were unwholesome, gave us an impor- 
tant foundation stone for our ideal — sympathy with and understand- 
ing of children. A wilUngness to take the preference of children into 
consideration, or, better still, an appreciation of the importance of 
so doing; of occasionally pro\4ding "almond comfits" and of coating 
with sugar, if need be, the "ginger and peppermint" of the diet is one 
of the first requisites of the successful dietitian. As Dr. Clement 
Dukes, Consulting Physician to Rugby, said in a recent address,^ 
"The natural 'likes and dislikes' of the young in the matter of food 
are very powerful, and while they should not be encouraged, allow- 
ance should be wisely made for their satisfaction. They form a physi- 
cal function of the age and constitution, and vary according to the 
stages of life — a craving at one time becoming a loathing at another." 
Miss Matty, beloved prototype of the school dietitian, went bank- 
rupt, or would have done so if her brother had not returned from 
India and paid her debts. She was followed by a long succession of 
small shopkeepers, more or less amiable and well disposed towards 
children, but usually either ignorant or willfully unmindful of their 
physical needs. Yet with all their shortcomings, those among them 
who achieved material success contributed another stone for the 
upbuilding of our ideal, for they were able to count costs and make 
financial ends meet. However lofty our standards for the dietitian, 
we must not lose sight of the fact that she \vill be expected to deal 
with material things, to buy in the markets of the new world, and to 
sell at a profit. She, like the small shopkeeper, must be able to strike 
a good bargain but the profit which she will be called upon to make 
will be the future health and physical well-being of the children who 
come under her care. Upon her business ability will depend to a 
large extent the quality of the food she will be able to serve, the degree 

« Our Children's Health at Home and at School, Report of a Conference on 
Diet and Hygiene in Public, Secondary and Private Schools. London, May 13, 
1912. Published by National Food Reform Association, Westminster, 1Q12. 



1914] Training the School Dietitian 209 

of cleanliness she will be able to maintain and the amount of beauty 
in furnishings which she will be able to place before her patrons. 
The school caterer who is above the task of careful buying, often finds 
herself obliged to economize in places where saving is dangerous; for 
example, in the matter of the persons employed to wash dishes. 
Upon the foundation stone of our ideal, the one which stands for 
understanding of, and sympathy with, children, we therefore must 
place another upon which we will write "business ability." 

After the small shopkeeper, came the lunch-room manager who was 
granted space in which to sell food within the school itself where the 
person selling it would be more or less directly responsible to the 
school authorities for the character of the food offered and for the 
manner of serving it. A connection once established between the 
person selling food and the educational system, there came a demand, 
often poorly defined, for a knowledge of food values on the part of the 
caterer, and for ability to serve balanced rations and scientifically 
prepared foods. This demand, when relieved of its indefiniteness, 
stands forth as a reasonable insistence upon the part of the more 
intelligent school patron that if science has anything to teach about 
the relation of foods to the upbuilding of the bodies of children, such 
knowledge must find practical application in the school lunch room. 
An understanding of foods, particularly in their relation to the needs 
of growing children, and a familiarity with the literature of nutrition 
are now expected of the lunch-room manager and must form a third 
stone in the ideal which we are building for the school dietitian. 

The coming expert will be expected to have at her command a 
knowledge of those facts about food and those principles of nutrition 
that are generally recognized among scientists as established. This 
will always be necessary to a wise selection of food materials, good 
methods of cooking and of preparation in general, rational combi- 
nations of foods to form dishes or meals, and adequate precautions 
against impurity and uncleanliness. But in addition to this argu- 
ment (which we may describe as positive) for familiarity with the 
literature of nutrition and ability to follow the work of investigators 
there is another argument equally potent though negative in form. 
This has a bearing not so much upon the benefits to be brought to the 
children directly as upon errors which, for the sake of the children, 
the dietitian should avoid. It relates to the danger of confusing with 
facts the theories which are constantly forced upon the attention of 
those who cater for others as the result of the enthusiasm of faddists, 



2IO The Journal oj Eotne Economics [June 

of personal preferences in the matter of flavor, and of family traditions 
about the digestibility or wholesomeness of various foods. 

The theories which the dietitian will be in danger of accepting as 
facts, without adequate reason for the faith which is in her, will differ 
with the years. Perhaps the most continuous snag which she will 
encounter will be her own perferences and her own family traditions 
about that which is wholesome or digestible. There are few people 
in the world who are not obhged to avoid some one or more articles 
of food, even when in health. The person who has no thorough 
knowledge of dietetics is likely to generalize upon these personal 
pecviliarities and to exclude from the meals which she prepares for 
others many wholesome and desirable food materials and dishes. 
The objections to such a proceeding on the part of the school lunch- 
room manager or dietitian are many. Among others, we may mention 
the fact that it tends to perpetuate error, which is unfortunate from 
an educational point of view. Again, if children are to be educated 
to be agreeable table companions they must be trained to be catholic 
in their tastes with reference to food, and should not be encouraged 
to rejrct this or that article of diet without due cause. The school 
dietitian has something to do besides influencing children to avoid 
unwholesome foods. She is under obligation to society to do her part 
toward preventing them from growang finical, and toward training 
them to enjoy the great variety of foods which nature provides. 

The pressure of faddists upon those who cater for others takes one 
form today and another tomorrow. At present, its influence is being 
exerted in the direction of making certain food materials seem ex- 
ceptionally valuable because they contain elements indispensable to 
the proper nourishment of the body. These faddists often leave 
out of account the fact that if a person takes a mixed diet it is almost 
impossible for him to avoid these much-vaunted elements. To- 
morrow the faddist will take a different turn, and only those who know 
what has been proved and also what has not been proved in connection 
with the subject of dietetics will be able to take his teaching at its 
true value. 

The faithful, conscientious labor of those who have charge of school 
lunch rooms have contributed yet another quahfication for our ideal 
dietitian, for these women have realized that they are not only feed- 
ing the children of today but training the parents of tomorrow. They 
have sought to teach by their daily practice correct methods of prep- 
aration, the art of preparing a bill of fare, and good taste in furniture 



1914] Training the School Dietitian 211 

and table furnishings. They have acted upon the principle that since 
children must acquire so much by laborious, painstaking methods, it 
is only fair that they should be given a change to learn the essentials 
of good taste and good breeding by their almost unlimited power of 
imitation.' 

The lessons wliich the school dietitian will find most important to 
teach by example, like the snags in dietetics which she will need to 
avoid, will change as the years pass. She will always find some prac- 
tical reform ripe for her cooperation and just in the state to profit by 
her assistance. What it will be tomorrow we cannot say, but today 
it is doubtless the clean food reform. There is probably no greater 
menance to health from a single cause at present than from the uncleanly 
methods by which food is handled in public places and from the stale 
food which is served. The public is awake, aroused, horrified; and 
educational demonstrations of cleanly methods of handling food on 
a large scale would probably accomplish one hundred times as much 
today as they would have accomplished ten years ago. Every school 
lunch room, therefore, and all places where food is kept or handled, 
should be, not only thoroughly, but also conspicuously clean. They 
should be thoroughly clean for the sake of the immediate safety of 
those served and they should proclaim their cleanliness in order to 
establish higher standards in public places. 

In a certain group of lunch rooms in Boston, owned and conducted 
by a scientifically trained woman, the work of disposing of food which 
is left unused at the end of the day and of deciding what shall be rejected 
and what shall be saved is entrusted only to highest salaried and 
most thoroughly trained employees. Similar attention is given to 
the washing of dishes, to the preparation of fresh vegetables, and to 
the care of all cloths used in cleaning the tables on which food is 
prepared or served. If the kitchens in these restaurants could be 
opened to public gaze by means of glass partitions or otherwise, they 
would be of more value than much formal teaching of bacteriology. 

To take an example of a different sort : In a certain renowned state 
university, a w'ater cooler with a common drinking cup attached, stood 
in the registrar's ofiice just outside of the president's room for months 
after the bacteriological department of the university had been engaged 
in preaching publicly against such practices. Who can tell how much 
the campaign against the common drinking cup was retarded by the 
failure of this university to live up to its own teaching? Universities, 
however, influence directly a very small number of people in compari- 



212 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

son with elementary schools. The trained food expert in the lower 
schools has therefore a weapon against filthy practices in the handling 
of foods whose possible effectiveness almost passes the bounds of 
imagination. Lunch room managers have fortunately often recog- 
nized and embraced their opportunities to teach and have by this 
means raised the standard for the training of their successors. 

Up to this point we have spoken only of qualifications which school 
managers and dietitians should have in common, but in large school 
districts a separation is sure to come in time between these two 
trained officials. Then the manager will assiune charge of the details 
of everyday administration, leaving the dietitian to make the lunch 
room a laboratory for the investigations of problems bearing on the 
general subject of the feeding of children. 

The opportunities for research offered w^herever food is served in 
large amounts under intelligent supervision have been recognized and 
demonstrated by the United States Department of Agriculture, and 
also by private organizations, physicians and health officers. The 
investigations of the Department of Agriculture have been mainly 
dietary studies' conducted for the purpose of determining the amount 
of food actually provided in well conducted institutions where the 
children appeared to be well-fed and in good bodily condition. These 
investigations have resulted in the establishment of certain dietary 
standards for children which are to be found recorded in the publications 
of the Department.* The Department by cooperating with individuals 
and institutions has not only shown the invaluable opportunities for 
research offered by institutional dining rooms but has also given 
training in methods of investigations. 

The studies made by private organizations, physicians and school 
health officers have, up to this time, been chiefly in connection with 
conspicuous cases of malnutrition. Their purpose has been to deter- 
mine the relation of malnutrition to underfeeding, bad housing, and 
other untoward conditions of living. These two lines of work, studies 
of normal and abnormal children, suggest that in connection with the 
school system there should be an expert who is not only in touch with 
investigators but is also trained to take for herself advantage of the 
enlarging opportunities for investigation offered by the growing custom 
of serving meals in the schools. We look, therefore, for the coming of 

3 U. S. Dept. Agr., OfiF. Expt. Stas., Bui. 223. 
* U. S. Dept. Agr., Off. Expt. Stas., Circ. no. 



1914] Administration of School Lunches 213 

the school dietitian who, relieved of the details of administration, will 
have only the final decision as to what food shall be served and will 
by her own studies contribute to our knowledge of food in its relation 
to growth and development. 

Understanding of child nature and some familiarity with the prin- 
ciples of pedagogy; business ability; knowledge of the literature 
of nutrition; and acquaintance with methods of investigation 
and research — these are the qualifications which we may reason- 
ably expect of the school dietitian. Since it is obviously out of the 
question to outline here courses of training and study, we must be 
content to let the qualifications suggest the character of the prepa- 
ration. The recognized need of thorough courses in chemistry, physics 
and the biological sciences as foundation for a working knowledge of 
dietetics and sanitation puts out of the question the possibility of 
any short cut to the profession. The widening opportunities for adding 
to knowledge which if neglected will entail serious loss to the public, 
tend to lengthen the path and to extend it into the graduate school. 
On the other hand, the need for close contact with children and the 
demand for business experience suggest pleasant side- trips into appren- 
ticeship. The larger universities offer the long, broad path of scien- 
tific preparation and also, the enticing by-paths where practical 
experience is to be gained through their normal departments and 
lunch rooms. 

Formal courses of training, no matter what their length or their 
breadth, can never create those kindly impulses in which the successful 
work of the school dietitian must have its origin. The best they can 
do is to make recognition of the value to the coming generation of the 
desire to substitute peppermint lozenges for almond comfits and to 
direct it toward a scientific system of school feeding. 

THE ADMINISTRATION OF SCHOOL LUNCHES 
IN CITIES 1 

Alice Boughton 

Ten years ago school lunches were being served in two elementary 
schools in Philadelphia. Today they are being served in more than 
a hundred cities from Pennsylvania to California and from the Great 

* Presented at the Fourth International Congress on School Hygiene, Buffalo, 
1913- 



214 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

Lakes to the Gulf. The lunch movement has passed the experimental 
stage and become a recognized part of the modern school system. 

It is the purpose of this paper to deal with some of the questions, in 
the order of their relative importance, which must be considered by 
any community about to organize school lunches. These problems 
are such as must be taken into account regardless of the extent of 
ser\nce to be organized. 

The relative merits of the central kitchen and the indi\ddual school 
kitchen is one of the first problems to be considered. In the central 
kitchen it is possible to have a trained person in charge of the actual 
work, so that a more uniform standard can be maintained. This is 
especially true where women's clubs or other volunteer agencies are 
responsible for supervision. Competent, responsible assistants are 
essential. 

For the central kitchen, food can be bought and stored in large 
quantities. This means economy, but our experience in serving school 
lunches is not yet sufficient to warrant the statement that the central 
kitchen plan results in actual money saving. The cost of food distri- 
bution is considerable, but there seems to be little doubt that a better 
standard of cooking and of serving as well as a greater variety of foods 
may be obtained for the same money if the food is prepared in a central 
kitchen, or, in a large city, in a chain of kitchens each of which serves one 
or more school districts. So far the possibilities of combining the work 
in the high and elementary schools have not been given a trial. There 
would seem to be no real difficulties, other than those of administra- 
tion, in taking advantage of the high school plants for the prepara- 
tion of food for the elementary schools. In most high schools it is pos- 
sible to have steam cooking utensils, dish washing machines, potato 
peelers and other labor-saving devices which, because of expense, can- 
not be installed in the small elementary school kitchen. This coopera- 
tion between high and elementary schools would permit of greater 
variety and lower food and service cost for both. 

On the other hand, with such a system as that in Philadelphia, 
where the cooking is done in each school, the children come into close 
contact with the working assistants, observe the preparation of food, 
and unconsciously acquire high standards. Many of them show great 
interest in what goes on in the kitchen, ask questions, and learn the 
names and uses of the various utensils. It is probable, however, that 
the advantages of the individual kitchen could be incorporated with 
the central plant. 



1 9 14] Administration of School Lunches 215 

No matter what system of preparing food is adopted, too much 
stress cannot be laid on the necessity for a good cost accounting system. 
Whether the lunches pay the cost of maintenance in full or in part, 
those in charge should know exactly the expense of running the plant 
in terms of rent, heat, light, deterioration, renewal of equipment, 
distribution, preparation, service and supervision, as well as the cost 
of the food. They should also know whether the gain through buying 
food in large quantities is sufficient to cover the running expenses of 
the plant, and whether, if the selling price covers service cost as well 
as food cost, the child gets as much for his penny as he does when he 
buys at the corner grocer>^ The collection of this information does 
not pledge us to the adoption of any given system of administration. 
It does, however, give us a scientific basis for the measurement of 
results and a means for accurately comparing the work of one city with 
that of another. 

A system of records carefully worked out to meet special needs is 
indispensable. This should include weekly menu cards for the sales- 
women at each school, with spaces for daily receipts and weekly totals ; 
a record for each school showing total receipts and expenditures for 
the month with sufficient space for an itemized expenditure account. 
A time sheet is needed for registering the working time of employees. 
This time sheet furnishes a basis of comparison between the various 
schools where employees are paid by the hour, and shows the gain in 
time through convenient kitchen arrangement and equipment. There 
should be petty cash sheets so that the saleswoman will have no diflS- 
culty in keeping an account of her emergency fund. There should be 
order sheets of uniform size which fit into the director's note-book, and 
loose sheets of the same size for miscellaneous memoranda. Care and 
thought in these details insure efliciency with a minimum of effort. 

In any city having more than two or three schools, there should be 
a central ofiSce where the assistants can get into daily touch with the 
director, bring their record cards each week for criticism, and confer 
with her regarding the difficulties they encounter in their work. Once 
a month it is well to have a general meeting of the whole force. This 
will help to keep all interested and develop a spirit of team work. 
Very often the director gets valuable suggestions from her assistants, 
who through daily contact with the children acquire first hand knowl- 
edge of their needs and tastes. 

The efficient administration of funds available for school lunches 
depends largely upon the intelligence exercised in the purchase of 



2i6 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

raw materials. The director must be governed in her selection of 
food stuffs, not by guess work but by scientific measurement. Each 
food sample should be tested for the percentage of protein, fat, and 
carbohydrate, and for its caloric value. The school director should 
make her purchases on the basis of food values, although this does not 
mean that she must make the chemical analysis herself. In every 
city arrangements can be made to have foods tested in the university 
or municipal laboratories; and the school lunch director will generally 
find the municipal authorities glad to cooperate. 

Another important problem is the equipment of kitchen and lunch 
rooms. The school children are not obliged to buy the lunch prepared 
for them. They will not buy it unless they can get as much for their 
money in just as attractive a form as the street vendor offers them. 
In selling cheap food, careful attention must be given to service, and, 
no matter how simple, the equipment should be pleasing in appearance. 
When possible the serving dishes should be white. They appeal to 
the children as being clean and attractive, and what is no less important, 
the director can tell at a glance whether or not they have been carefully 
washed. In Philadelphia white enamel has proved most satisfactory. 

The lunch hour may become one of the social features of the school 
if due attention is given to making the lunch room attractive. This is 
especially true in high schools. In elementary schools the lunch-room 
should be of easy access to play-ground or play-room so that as 
soon as the children have finished their meal or while they are waiting 
for their tm-n to be served, they may be playing out-doors. 

If the director or her assistants have had normal training in domestic 
science, they may give lessons in the physiology of digestion, using 
the school lunch as a working basis. The whole system of lunch room 
expenditures should be the common property of the children. They 
should imderstand just what their money goes for; what proportion 
for rent, what proportion for service, and what proportion for food. 

In the past, correlation between school room and lunch room has 
not been close, yet it seems e\ddent that the school lunch offers a 
laboratory where valuable instruction to school children can and should 
be given. Such correlation, however, is not practical unless the 
director of the department possesses certain important qualifications. 
In order to fully develop the educational possibiHties of the school 
lunch, she must be not only a business manager, an accountant, a 
skilled housekeeper and a trained dietitian, but also an intelligent and 
well equipped teacher. 



1914] Administration of School Lunches 217 

A question which will undoubtedly arise in the future in connection 
with the school lunch as it has already arisen in connection with 
medical inspection, is whether its administration should be under the 
direction of the educational or the health authorities. Most of us 
who are engaged in this work feel strongly that the responsibility 
must rest upon the public school system. The health authorities, 
through the Department of Medical Inspection, deal primarily with 
the child who is ill and pay little attention to the healthy child. The 
School Lunch Department places emphasis, not upon the sick, but 
upon the well; its primary aim is to serve, not the abnormal, but the 
normal child. The School Lunch Department might very properly 
cooperate with the Department of Medical Inspection in the preparing 
and serving of special diets to the under-nourished, or, on the requi- 
sition of the Department of Charities, in serving food free of charge to 
children of indigent parents. In other words, the school lunch might 
serve as a food clinic to children suffering from malnutrition. Coopera- 
tion between school and health authorities should be close and con- 
stant, but for purposes of effective administration it seems evident 
that the provision of food for normal children to be served in the 
school buildings should be under the direction of the school authorities. 

The control of the School Lunch System should be in the hands of a 
central committee composed of representatives from the Department 
of Superintendents, Departments of Health, Recreation, and Domestic 
Economy, and of other interested persons or associations. If public 
funds are spent, the members of this central committee would properly 
be appointed by the board of education. This committee should meet 
several times during the year to settle questions which arise, but there 
should be a smaller executive committee meeting monthly to work 
with the director and aid her in keeping the system running smoothly. 
Whether or not the director of a luncheon is a paid employee of the 
board of education or of an outside organization, she should have full 
authority over the details of the work for which she is responsible, 
subject, of course, to the approval of the executive committee. She 
should be responsible, in part at least, for the purchasing of food, and 
wholly responsible for preparing and ser\dng it. She should make 
all menus and know the food values of whatever articles are sold. 
She should be consulted in the buying of all equipment. 

School feeding is a big business. In Philadelphia alone 1 70,000 chil- 
dren in the elementary schools are spending approximately $200,000 
on their lunches each school year. As only about 6000 of these ele- 



2i8 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

mentary school children are cared for by the School Lunch Depart- 
ment, this money goes largely to the street vendor. During the past 
year 10,000 children in the high schools spent $92,000. Their money 
was spent for clean, nutritious, and palatable food, prepared and 
served in a sanitary manner in a clean and attractive room under 
expert supervision, while the overwhelming proportion of elementary 
children for whom as yet no school lunches have been provided, 
spent their pennies on the street, getting in return for their money 
dirty, adulterated food. The child is in the schools. He wants 
food, and has the money with which to buy it. The practical 
question for us to settle is how he shall get his money's worth. 



HOUSEHOLD SCIENCE IN SECONDARY SCHOOLS 

Florence and Meriel Willard 
Washington Irving High School, New York City 

The old idea of manual training and sewing, the making of a few 
perfect models, each small and useless, except as a means of acquiring 
manual skill, has disappeared. The aim now is not only to train the 
hands, but to arouse and develop the girl. The educational catch 
words are "Preparation for hfe," "Vocational training," "Habit 
formation," "Ef&ciency." Home making has become a profession 
and girls must be prepared for it. Trades demand skilled workers 
and they must be trained in the schools. Household science, therefore, 
is no longer a subject that can be given casually, with little time 
allowance, no equipment and an indifferent teacher. It has become 
one of the centers around which are grouped other subjects. Litera- 
ture, art, history, science — all help to enrich and strengthen this im- 
portant part of a girl's training. The development and needs of the 
modern home; the great industrial problems; the relationship of capi- 
tal and labor; sweatshop work, child labor, are all questions which 
should be of vital interest to the future wage earner and home maker. 
As a consumer every girl must learn " how and what to buy." Women 
are the family spenders these days and girls should know the worth 
of the many articles that go to make the furnishings of a home and 
the clothing of a family. 

Household science in secondary education has taken great strides 
in the last ten years. It is now quite the exception in large cities not 
to find it included in the high school curriculum. A large majority of 



1 9 14] Household Science in Secondary Schools 219 

the high schools in the smaller towns also oflfer some kind of work 
along the lines of home training. In many of the courses of study it is 
a required subject, especially in the trade and technical high schools. 
In these schools it generally runs through the entire course, five peri- 
ods each week for four years. The physical, chemical and biological 
sciences in these schools are adapted to the home subjects and work in 
close correlation. For the teacher of household science to teach all of 
these subjects means that some of the practical sides of the work are 
neglected. The applied courses in the chemical and physical labora- 
tories have been found to be much more satisfactory if taught by the 
regular teacher of these subjects. 

The physics and chemistry as now taught in many of the high schools 
are not so valuable to girls as they are to boys who are preparing for 
technical work. We all know that these subjects are especially adapted 
to form habits of logical thinking, reasoning and concentration. The 
problem now before us is to make such work equally valuable for 
girls and boys, and to plan out courses in these sciences that will 
include all the underlying principles, and at the same time show their 
appUcation in the processes of housekeeping. 

Science in the chemical laboratory can be used to show how foods 
are adulterated, or what fabrics are weak and what are strong, with 
as much educational value as in determining the percentage of each 
element in a given compound of remote interest to the student. 

The applied physiology as taught in connection with household 
science is the foundation of hygiene; this is better understood when it is 
preceded by some work in biology, where the cell life is illustrated by 
plants. The main part of the work in physiology is the study of the 
intake and the output of the body and the nature of the digestive 
changes. 

Very closely related to the subject of Home Economics is the subject 
of bacteriology, which includes the study of bacteria, yeast and mold. 
This can be taught in direct connection with the practical work in 
cooking, no laboratory being needed. A microscope to show the actual 
appearance of bacteria, and a few Petri dishes and test tubes furnish 
the necessary apparatus. The nutrient gelatine can be made in the 
kitchens or furnished by the Board of Health. Culture plates exposed 
to the air before and after class, or before and after sweeping show the 
distribution of bacteria and molds more vividly than any amount of 
talking. Tests as to the keeping of milk, with and without pasteuri- 
zation; the effect of drj-ing food; and the effect of decajing fruits are 



2 20 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

instructive and interesting. The function of yeast in bread making 
and the results of mold on cheese are easily explained by simple 
experiments. 

In some of the academic high schools, the tendency of the last 
few years is to omit a second language and substitute courses in house- 
hold science. This seems a wise plan for it gives the work a regular 
place in the course of study. It has proved to be of more benefit to 
pupils than three years of a foreign language. In the majority of 
high schools however, only one year is given to the subject. It is as 
yet an unsettled question as to where that year shall come. Among 
the pupils who enter high school only 75 per cent remain until the 
second year, 50 per cent remain until the third year, and 25 per cent 
remain until the fourth year and graduate. To benefit the greatest 
nmnber of pupils then, household science should be put in the first 
year. It is not the best psychological time, however, for the girls. 
They often have had just enough in elementary schools to make it 
appear an old story. In the third and fourth years we find them more 
deeply interested in the work. It is sometimes the case that they are 
already contemplating homes of their own or that the family burden 
of ways and means has fallen upon them all too early. 

The topics covered by most of the courses under the heading of 
Household Science are: foods and nutrition, sanitation, preparation 
and serving of foods, care of infants, the home care of the sick, the 
furnishing and care of the home, sewing, and dressmaking. 

At present, because of the better understanding of the science of foods 
and nutrition in the colleges and training schools, teachers are better 
prepared to teach these subjects. The practical side of the work, that 
is, the actual cooking has always been emphasized and should always 
be an important side of the work. The study of the needs of the body 
and the way in which the different foods best meet these needs, however, 
is one of the most interesting ones to the pupil in the secondary 
schools. She may, up to this time have been interested only in the 
taste and appearance of food. The study of the caloric expenditure 
of the body and the weighing and proportioning of the food equal to 
the expenditure opens up a new field. The cost of the food for each 
dish planned and cooked is computed and the comparison made as 
to its energy value. This sets forth problem after problem to be 
solved by the young housekeeper. Most of the cooking is in the 
form of preparing meals which are correct dietetically and adapted 
to the class of girls taught. These meals are then properly served. 



1914] Household Science in Secondary Schools 221 

In schools where there are housekeeping rooms or a model apart- 
ment, the pupils have a chance to grasp household problems on a 
much wider scale. Correlating with the art classes the rooms are 
furnished in a harmonious and simple manner. There are many com- 
binations of furnishings and experiments of different effects made and 
criticized by the classes. The entire care of these rooms is taken by 
the pupils, different groups working each period of the day. One 
period the house is cleaned, the floors polished and absolute neatness 
and order brought about. The next period a meal is prepared. One 
girl sets the table, another goes to market, and so on. In the six or 
seven rooms, groups of four or five are working, each taking the respon- 
sibility of a particular task. Theories are put into practice that 
have been talked over in the laboratories and kitchens. 

The technical work in sewing is, of course, given by the teacher who 
is especially trained for this work. As with domestic science, in many 
schools sewing is required or it may be elected in place of a second 
language. The equipment should be simple but convenient. Sewing 
machines, one for every four or five girls, up-to-date and in order, are 
a necessity. As a rule the greater part of all material should be 
furnished by the pupils themselves. The finished products then 
belong to the makers and as such have an added value and are worked 
upon with independence and pride. 

The course of study varies in different localities and in different 
schools but the ideal is the same — to teach processes and principles, 
to train girls to think, not merely to make particular articles. Each 
garment, for example, is a problem to be solved by every pupil. Real 
skill is to be sought for also, not only because it is valuable in itself, 
but because true appreciation of technical excellence can only be gained 
through active production. Speed should be cultivated, because 
time is precious and wasteful motions should be avoided in all habit 
formation. During the first term the pupils cut and make several 
undergarments and perhaps a cooking cap and apron. On these 
garments they review or learn the several stitches that are used by 
all hand sewers. The sewing machine is then introduced. 

The cutting and construction of garments are always interesting 
processes and a knowledge of correct lines and easy ways of fitting 
should be gained by all pupils. Cotton cloth, its manufacture and 
use, its cost and value to the consumer should be investigated. Stores 
and factories should be visited if possible. The bargain counter 
and a comparison of home and factory made garments are profitable 



222 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

discussions. Analysis of the new fabric is of interest. The good old 
fashioned tests for wool are tried, collections are made showing values 
and prices, color tests are experimented with. Why is wool warm? 
What effect has its adulteration? What constitutes hygienic clothing 
for growing girls? The effect of weight and pressure upon health. 
These are some of the natural questions and suggestions that grow 
out of work with dress materials. 

After a simple dress has been made pupils are ready for drafting 
and then for the use of paper patterns. Time should also be given to 
household linen, millinery, baby clothes, and finally the girl's own 
graduation dreg's. This dress should be designed and planned from 
the economic standpoint to secure a really fine garment for a limited 
amount of money. 

The care of infants is fast becoming one of the most important parts 
of the work in household science. More and more is the care of the 
baby at home left with the big sister, and an intelUgent knowledge of 
how to wash, feed and amuse the child is almost a necessity. These 
girls too, have often to assist in caring for a sick member of the family 
so that a knowledge of "first aid" is useful. All of these topics tend 
to develop a womanly instinct and awake a keener interest in one's 
fellow beings. Aside from the knowledge given about the home and 
society, the aim of the coiuse in household science is to form habits 
of order, neatness, accuracy, promptness, speed, patience and reason- 
ing. If we can do this the outlook on life of the high school girl will be 
broadened bv her course in household science. 



PURE TEXTILES 

L. H. Dewey 
United States Department of Agriculture 

The practice of substitution, adulteration and fraud is by no means 
confined to food and drugs. The use of cheaper substitutes for stand- 
ard materials has been practiced from the earliest times of manu- 
factured articles, but it seems to have increased during the past fifty 
years, and ^\^th the increasing adulteration there has grown up an 
agitation for protection against it. 

In the present age it has become the custom to turn to the law, 
somewhat blindly perhaps, but with a vague notion that the law alone 



1 914] Pure Textiles 223 

will suppress the evil. At least eight different bills, designed to se- 
cure pure textiles, were introduced in the two houses of Congress 
within a year and others had been introduced at previous sessions. 
Fortunately none of these bills have been enacted into law, for none 
of them appear to be quite practical and their passage would merely 
complicate matters without fully serving the purpose for which they 
were drawn. It seems very probable, however, that a more com- 
prehensive and more carefully prepared measure may be presented 
soon. A special committee has been at work upon this matter for 
some time and have collected information that should enable them 
to draw up a measure designed to correct the evils without causing 
undue hardships to honest manufacturers or dealers. Most of the 
measures presented heretofore have been opposed by manufacturers, 
but statements in the textile trade papers indicate that their attitude 
is now changing in favor of just and reasonable regulation. 

In the days when our grandfathers sheared their sheep, and our 
grandmothers carded and spun the wool and dyed the yarn with which 
they knitted their children's stockings and mittens there was no ques- 
tion but that these articles were all genuine new wool. Those Httle red 
and white striped mittens seemed never to wear out, and those woolen 
socks that used to feel so comfortable inside of the copper-toed boots 
withstood many kicks before they had to be darned. But the copper- 
toed boots and the hand-knit stockings and the homespun yarn have 
all disappeared. They have been replaced by the mill-spun yarns, 
machine-knit socks and factory-made shoes. Our good mothers and 
grandmothers knew personally those for whom they were spinning 
and knitting and the possibility of cheapening the article never entered 
their minds. But the spinner of yarns in the mill knows only that he 
will get his wages on Saturday night; the knitter operating a machine 
is interested only in turning out so many dozen pairs each day, for she 
knows not who spun the yarn or who may wear the socks. The 
personality of the consumer as an incentive to honesty is entirely 
removed. The goods, whether knit or woven, pass through the hands 
of the selling house, wholesaler, jobber and retailer before reaching 
the consumer. The manufacturer may therefore be very much in 
the position of the honest farmer who packs some dirty wool inside 
of a nice clean fleece and tries to console his conscience with the 
thought that the manufacturer who uses the wool can never know 
who packed it. Furthermore there is divided responsibility in the 



2 24 ^^^ Journal of Home Economics [June 

work of manufacture. One company spins warp yarns; another com- 
pany spins the weft or filling; another company weaves these yarns 
into cloth and still another company finishes the goods and prepares 
them for market. 

In addition to this divided responsibility there is often ignorance 
on the part of each manufacturer or dealer regarding all processes 
in the production of the article except the few that he himself attends 
to. The manufacturer rarely has any definite knowledge regarding 
the production of the raw wool, silk, cotton or other fibers that he uses. 
A cotton manufacturer from the North would need an introduction 
to a plant of American upland, upland long staple, or Sea Island 
cotton, and the woolen manufacturer inspecting the sheep at the 
county fair will be found looking curiously at the labels to distinguish 
between Cotswolds, Southdowns and Ramboulet merinos. The 
weaver knows little about the spinning or the finishing; the seller has 
only a superficial knowledge of any of the processes of manufacture, 
and the retail clerk in the department store knows only the goods as 
they are placed on the counter to be sold. With a new series of 
novelties coming out each season, so that one is scarcely familiar with 
marquisettes and chamoisettes before he must learn about ratines, 
tango cloth and polyreflets, it is almost too much to expect the retail 
clerk to have an intimate knowledge of the different kinds of materials 
entering into all these novelties or even into staple goods Hke serges, 
poplins and ginghams. 

If it is difficult for those actually engaged in the production and 
sale of the goods to know about their composition, how much more 
difl&cult is it for the purchaser or consumer to learn about it? But 
how many consumers give even a thought to the composition, provid- 
ing the color and finish are satisfactory? One occasionally sees an 
inquisitive customer pick up a piece of pongee silk and smell of it or 
press a wet finger against an alleged linen handkerchief, but usually 
there is little opportunity to test goods at the retail counter. If a 
purchaser occasionally asks about the composition of goods, the retail 
clerk and even the head of the department usually answer with pitying 
looks as if such questions could be asked only by persons mentally 
unbalanced. 

The purchasing public considers the appearance and price only 
and for two generations at least has paid no attention to composition. 
The careless purchaser, making no effort to learn about the quality 



1 9 14] Pure Textiles 225 

of materials may be quite as much to blame for misnamed or adulter- 
ated goods as the manufacturer who makes them. In fact, some- 
times more so, for the manufacturer usually makes goods on orders 
and the wholesaler placing the order is not deceived. The deception 
usually occurs somewhere between the wholesale house and the final 
purchaser. 

The bills introduced in the Senate and House of Representatives, 
thus far, provide for the labeling, marking and tagging of all textile 
fabrics, especially clothing, with penalties for misbranding. Some 
of the bills include leather and rubber goods in addition to textile 
fabrics. One bill, shorter yet more comprehensive than the others, 
includes all manufactured articles. It is entitled "A bill prohibit- 
ing fraud upon the public by requiring manufacturers to certify to 
the materials of which a manufactured product is composed, and to 
place their name upon manufactured articles or containers." 

A bill introduced December 8, 1913, by Representative Lindquist, 
of Michigan, himself a woolen manufacturer, follows in general the 
lines of most of the bills preceding and it may be taken as a type of 
the best of them. This bill makes it unlawful for any person to 
misrepresent or misbrand any article of clothing and other articles 
such as carpets, leather goods, etc. It further prohibits inter- 
state commerce or importation of misbranded articles; provides for 
the fumigation or disinfection of articles, for the collection of speci- 
mens for examination, for the examination of specimens in the Bureau 
of Chemistry of the Department of Agriculture, for the prosecution 
of offenders by district attorneys; defines the terms wool, silk, cotton, 
etc.; provides that articles for interstate commerce must be labeled, 
and how they shall be labeled; and provides further that no dealer 
shall be prosecuted under the act if he can show a guarantee from 
manufacturer or dealer that the article in question is not misbranded. 

One criticism that may be made to nearly all the bills is the attempt 
to designate every class of article separately by name, when it is 
obviously impossible to list all that are now known, while new types 
and classes are appearing every year. 

A serious difficulty in enforcing the provisions of the bills proposed 
may be found in identifying certain fibers. While it is comparatively 
easy to distinguish, by means of the microscope or in some instances 
by chemical analysis, between wool, cotton, silk, linen, ramie and 
jute, it is well-nigh impossible to distinguish with certainty in all 



2 26 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

instances between fleece wool, shoddy and mungo, or between flax 
and hemp fibers. The presence of shoddy may usually be detected 
by microscopic examination for some of the fibers are nearly always 
dyed differently from others or differently from the fresh wool, but 
since they are all wool it is practically impossible to positively identify 
each individual fiber so as to determine accurately the percentage of 
shoddy present. Hemp fiber costing the manufacturer 8 to lo cents 
per pound may be substituted for flax costing 20 cents, in coarse yarns 
or carpet warp, and it would be practically impossible to detect the 
difference. 

The most frequent cases of substitution and adulteration at the 
present time are the following: Shoddy, mungo and cosmos fibers 
used in woolen goods; cotton and sometimes jute fiber instead of 
flax in linen goods; artificial silk in place of genuine silk; jute in 
place of ramie; jute in place of hemp. 

There are more than a dozen different grades of shoddies, mungos, 
cosmos, and extracts regularly quoted in American markets and used 
to make yarns for the manufacture of woolen goods. In Europe 
shodcy is used much more than it is in this country. Imported cloth 
is much more hkely to contain shoddy than domestic goods at cor- 
responding prices. Some of the higher grades of shoddy are as good 
or possibly better than low grades of fleece wools. The best all-wool 
white shoddy yarns are regularly quoted at prices about equal to the 
quotations for light gray mixed yarns of fleece wools. The presence 
of the adulterations in woolen goods can not usually be determined 
without microscopic examination. 

The substitution of cottons for flax is facilitated somewhat by the 
careless use of the term Hnen to include cotton substitutes with genu- 
ine linen. Our grandmothers had real table linen and real bed linen, 
but now the term table linen often means cotton table cloths and 
napkins, and one almost has to go to Mexico or Europe to find linen 
sheets. The purchaser usually knows when she is buying cotton 
sheets or table cloths but may not be so certain in other lines. Cotton 
is now spun in uneven yarns to resemble flax yarns, and the woven 
goods are finished with alum and magnesia in the sizing and even 
perfumed to resemble the odor of retted flax, so that it requires very 
careful examination to distinguish the cotton imitation from genuine 
linen before it is washed. It may be identified very easily by the 
microscope, but until microscopes are furnished to customers in the 



1914] Pure Textiles 227 

linen goods departments most of us will have to accept the sales- 
man's word for it. 

During the past five or six years increasing quantities of artificial 
silks have been sold in our markets. This is a comparatively new 
form of fraud and in most instances the retail dealer has been as 
ignorant as the customer. 

Artificial silk is made from cotton or pine wood pulp completely 
dissolved forming a slightly viscid fluid which is pressed through 
fine holes. The strands coming from these holes, after being solidi- 
fied and purified, have an appearance very similar to genuine silk, 
but they are solid instead of hollow, about one-eighth as strong as 
real silk and very much weaker when wet. There are several different 
kinds made by different processes, but none of them are as strong or 
as durable as genuine silk and none will endure heat and moisture 
as well as real silk. Most of them would be ruined by moistening 
them and attempting to press them with a hot iron. Artificial silk 
is used largely in trimmings, but it is also used in other lines of goods. 
Probably no dealer will guarantee, as genuine silk, any of the so- 
called silk petticoats selling at less than three dollars. Some of these 
are probably silk finished cotton, which is more durable than arti- 
ficial silk. 

Ramie is comparatively new as a material for dress goods, in this 
country, and, being new and unfamiliar, offers exceptional oppor- 
tunities for misrepresentation and fraud. Fine bleached and combed 
ramie tops, the best grade of ramie fiber, cost the spinner 50 to 70 
cents per pound. It is the most beautiful and most expensive vege- 
table fiber on the market. But dress goods are often made of the 
noils or short ramie fibers costing 12 to 15 cents per pound. The 
use of 15-cent noils instead of 50-cent tops is still ramie and within 
the law as the bills are drawn, but the substitution of 4-cent jute is 
beyond endurance. About three years ago a ladies' tailor made some 
gowns, at $40 and upward, of goods that he called "Punjab ramie 
linen." Neither ramie nor flax are produced in the Punjab, but jute 
is, though not as much as in other parts of India. This Punjab ramie 
linen was imported by another firm and the tailor may be given the 
benefit of the doubt as to whether he knew what it was, although 
he should have recognized its resemblance to cheap grades of buck- 
ram used for stiffening. This "Punjab ramie linen" was found to be 
only jute burlap, and for the sake of the pride of the fashionable 



228 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

wearers we shall hope that no one told them they were dressed in 
potato sacking. 

Jute is commonly sold as hemp in so-called hemp carpets, hemp 
carpet warp and in the webbing supporting the seats of upholstered 
furniture. If genuine hemp were used, these articles would en- 
dure hard wear many years, but the life of jute is very short, even 
without wear, for it rots upon exposure to the air, 

A just and comprehensive law, properly enforced, will aid in doing 
awav with some of the shams, frauds and misrepresentations, but it 
will not be fully effective until the purchasing public is educated to 
expect and demand honesty all along the line. Ask the retail dealer 
to guarantee the kind of material; not the quality only for that is 
indefinite, but the kind of material. Some articles are now guaranteed 
from manufacturers through all the dealers and retailers to the ulti- 
mate consumer. Many more might be so guaranteed if there were a 
demand for it. 

It has been well said that "it is difficult to legislate honesty into a 
community," and it will be practically impossible if we continue to 
fulfil P. T. Barmmi's statement that "The American people like to 
be humbugged." But every one of us may help to develop honesty 
by using reasonable efforts to avoid being cheated, and at the same 
time believe and act on the belief, that most people, whether manu- 
facturers or retail dealers, are fully as honest as we are. 



1914] House Planning and Home Economics 229 

THE RELATION OF HOUSE PLANNING TO HOME 
ECONOMICS' 

Helen Binkerd Young 
Architect, Department of Home Economics, Cornell University 

In looking over the curricula of various schools in Home Economics, 
one finds here and there an attempt to introduce house planning into 
the schedule. To one not accustomed to think in terms of plan- 
ning, the relation between this subject and Home Economics may not at 
first be clear. It may be necessary to e.xplain why an understanding 
of good house planning is fundamental in Home Economics training. 

Conceived from one point of view, Home Economics aims to so 
organize the profession of home making that women shall have leisure 
for family enjoyment, for personal growth and for community affairs. 
This means that the business of house keeping must be placed on an 
intelligent and labor saving basis. To this end a woman must know 
her work; she must know what she is to do, and how she is to do it; 
and she must see to it that the laboratory in which she operates is so 
designed as to fit itself to her scheme of work. It is of small use to 
organize the work unless first of all we organize the work place. In 
other words, for organized housekeeping an organized house plan is 
needed. 

Constructively stated, the time has come when we must realize 
that forceful and direct arrangements of floor plan, do of themselves 
create conditions favorable to simple house work and to effective 
decoration, while crowded, rambling, indirect or even unstudied 
arrangements, create forms of waste that no amount of added equip- 
ment can cancel. While the use of household equipment should not 
be undervalued it cannot yield full results until the first great economy, 
that of the plan, is established. Nor can household decoration be 
seriously and fundamentally taught except from the standpoint of 
planning and the structural division of space. We need a readjusted 
vision of the house, both as concerns its plan and its fittings. As long 
as we attempt to fit economic house keeping into uneconomic arrange- 
ments, there will be lost motion. To accept dwelUngs of the day as 
fixed conditions, is to limit the full demonstration of Home Economics. 

1 Presented at the Sixth Annual meeting of the American Home Economics 
Association, Ithaca, 1913. 



230 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

The development of the house plan has a direct bearing on the serv- 
ant problem and the high cost of living. By intensive planning of the 
working areas, humane and economic conditions are assured to the 
worker; service is reduced to a minimum and many times the home- 
maker becomes independent of outside help. If outside help is needed, 
however, such conditions appeal to the most intelligent type of worker, 
and in the long run, add greatly to the peace and permanence of the 
home management. The compact forms of modern English and Ger- 
man as well as of American houses reflect very clearly the increasing 
difficulties with domestic help. 

The increased cost of building and of upkeep also react directly on 
the house plan. Because of our higher standards of living as well as 
the greater cost of labor and of building materials, a square foot of 
house room now costs twice or three times as much as it did a genera- 
tion ago. Such a realization puts a new demand on every foot of 
enclosed space. Economic planning demands that every square foot of 
floor area shall do a square foot's worth of work, or shall add a square 
foot's worth of effectiveness to the interior. We must not spend space 
for idle areas. Every foot of the plan must work either for economy 
or for beauty. 

The basic relation between the house plan and household decoration 
cannot be passed by without more comment. If we believe that our 
surroundings affect us and that the aim of household decoration is to 
create a virile environment, we must realize at the outset that no sur- 
face appUcation either of color or design nor any addition of movable 
furnishings will score so heavily in favor of total effectiveness as will 
a well-designed structural setting and the simple effect of studied 
light and shade. 

For the reasons then, that the floor plan bears directly on the house 
work, on the servant problem and on the high cost of Hving, and for 
the reason that it forms the logical basis for the development of envi- 
ronmental art, house planning should be understood by Home Economic 
teachers. Through the study of planning, intelligent standards of 
housing may be formed and future building may be guided in an 
economic direction. 

Practice in planning is also of general cultural value, for a sense of 
planning is broader than its mere appUcation to building. Good 
planning requires careful analysis and promotes simple and direct 
reasoning. Such training should enable one to distinguish essentials 
from non-essentials in any problem and to organize the whole into a 



1 9 14] House Planning and Home Economics 231 

definite program. Planning should enable one to plan work, strength 
and time as well as space. 

It is not advisable, however, for people to dabble in architecture, or 
aspire to plan their own houses unaided, or to learn a little planning 
as an end in itself. Such work is necessarily brief, and is by no means 
exhaustive; it is intended to develop an appreciation of forceful arrange- 
ment, merely as a means toward an end. A study of hygiene and of 
sanitation does not equip one to practice medicine, but it does teach 
one to some extent how to prevent disease. Similarly the study of 
house planning as above described helps to prevent uneconomic struc- 
tural situations. Such a course therefore stands not by itself, but as 
basic work which may be relied upon to strengthen other subjects. 

In order that the study of house planning shall be valuable to 
Home Economics teachers and students, it is vital that the person 
teaching the work shall have not only training, but also originality. 
To study and imitate types of floor plans with which we are already 
famihar is merely marking time. We arrive nowhere unless behind 
this study there is a purpose and a point of view; that is to say, if 
familiar arrangements are used they should be analyzed for the purpose 
of locating waste space, of understanding directness of plan, of learning 
the value of vistas, and the "ear marks" of strong or weak design; and 
these points should be brought out as the various plans are discussed. 

All women should understand what elements govern economy of 
plan and how those elements may be combined to secure comfort and 
beauty. A study of house planning teaches one where spaciousness 
or compactness is desirable; thus every foot of enclosed space may 
serv^e a definite purpose. In general, economy of plan is expressed in 
compactness of floor area, in grouped chimney arrangements, in sim- 
plified hall and stair treatment and condensed kitchen arrangements. 
Spaciousness is in general obtained by treating the living area as a 
unit with continuous lines of composition connecting such subdivision 
as living room, dining room, library, etc. Windows and doors are 
placed with relation to these axes, and long vistas indoors and out are 
established. In other words an understanding of spaciousness de- 
pends upon a knowledge of the laws of composition and design. 

The house plan must therefore be in a sense architectural if we are 
to secure the best results; for "architectural arrangement" is merely a 
professional description of planning space in an orderly and systematic 
manner. Convenience is the by-product of the best design, and a 
simple architectural plan brings in its wake economic working condi- 



232 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

tions. In working over hundreds of homemade plans not one has been 
found from which, by applying the principles of design, it would not 
be possible to either develop a more spacious and economic arrangement 
within the given area or to develop the given requirements within 
appreciably less area. Such an experience carries its own conviction 
as to the worth of high-calibre planning. 

The three hour course in house planning given in the Department 
of Home Economics at Cornell is placed in the first term of the Junior 
year. It consists of two lecture periods of fifty minutes each and one 
laboratory period of two and one half hours. The lecture work pre- 
sents to the students such discussions as: the relation of the house 
plan to home making, to the servant problem, and to the cost of living; 
economic versus cheap standards of building; developing house and 
grounds as a unit; the aesthetic obUgation of the property owner to 
the community; exterior color schemes; and such phases of heating, 
plumbing, Ughting and general construction as affect one's standards 
of sound housing. It is the special aim of this course to take a pro- 
gressive view of housing, by discussing the use of new building materials, 
simpler plumbing methods, new floorings and the effect such changes 
would have on the design, the upkeep and the total economy of prop- 
erty. The bulk of the work is, however, a discussion of planning. 
A collection of lantern slides is used to illustrate plans and exteriors 
both good and poor. Every plan is analyzed on the score of size, 
shape, arrangement, design, economy and originality of treatment. 
Exterior views are analyzed for general proportion, method of roofing, 
window treatment and the design of structural features, An appre- 
ciation of domestic architecture is thus developed. 

The laboratory work in house planning consists of such problems 
as the following: 

To plan a one-floor arrangement on a scale of | inch to i foot (bunga- 
low apartment or one floor of a two-family house) ; to plan (on same 
scale) a two floor arrangement (a suburban house for a given site and 
for a family of given size, or a farmhouse) ; to plan an economic kitchen 
on a scale of \ inch or \ inch to 1 foot. 

In conclusion, work in planning cannot be taught to immature 
students, but should be reserved chiefly for persons beyond the high 
school age. The essentials of good planning should, however, be 
understood by teachers who are working with Home Economics and 
decorative subjects in the secondary schools. Just as chemistry 
underlies the teaching of all food work, so a sense of house planning 



1 9 14] Tendencies in Household Arts Teaching 233 

should underlie the teaching of decoration, sanitation and household 
management. 

Our present problem is to find persons who are fitted to teach plan- 
ning, for it is not a subject that can be "picked up" by any one, and, 
if improperly taught, not only fails to be helpful but becomes positively 
harmful. No one can teach to others a subject which he himself does 
not understand. In the absence of trained teachers, seminary sessions 
or round table discussions could be appointed, and all prevalent and 
new ideas of housing could be challenged and discussed. Often the 
interest of some live, sympathetic architect who really plans houses 
could be secured, with mutual benefit to himself, to teachers and to 
students. 

We should look forward to the time when the house shall not be 
viewed as a desirable thing to have and to hold for its own sake; shall 
not be a statement of material prosperity with which to impress one's 
friends, but shall serve as the true laboratory of home making. A place 
where in every arrangement one feels such simplicity, directness and 
refinement as one needs for plain living and high thinking. 

We cannot of course immediately demolish or remodel all dwellings 
that do not come up to these newer ideals of housing, but if education 
in home subjects takes a far look ahead, it must begin now to direct 
the building of coming generations in an economic direction. 

PRESENT TENDENCIES IN HOUSEHOLD ARTS 
TEACHING 

Helen Kinne 

Professor of Household Arts Education, Teachers College, New York City 

The situation in the field of household arts is most interesting and 
the point of view in regard to methods of teaching is rapidly changing. 
A strong tendency exists toward making the subject more effective 
than ever before in the life of the community, and the progressive 
household arts teacher finds herself critical of her own methods as she 
attempts to meet the new problems that confront her daily. Well 
organized courses in domestic science and domestic art proceeding 
in a logical and orderly method from the point of view of the subject 
itself and well related to the other subjects in the school curriculum 
do not meet the present needs. Indeed we find ourselves face to face 
with the fact that in this subject as in all others we have developed a 



234 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

decided academic tendency and are using methods that were progres- 
sive ten years ago but that must be discarded or vitalized if the work 
is to be abreast of the times. The change has doubtless come about 
as a result of the development of vocational education which is revo- 
lutionizing the stereot>T5cd school program; and the growth of exten- 
sion work in the rural communities of the United States is reacting 
upon school methods. 

In order to meet the needs of the community, subject matter in the 
household arts needs to be greatly enriched and organized in such a 
way that the pressing demands for knowledge along certain lines shall 
be adequately met. This means, in the first place, that the subject 
must be looked upon, as a whole, as the study of the home itself with 
less emphasis placed upon such topics as food preparation, and the 
actual se\\ ing and making of garments. There are of course certain 
fundamental principles of nutrition and food preparation always to 
be taught, and certain other principles in the field of textiles that may 
be looked upon as constants. There are other topics that may be 
classed as variants to be selected and emphasized whenever need arises 
as, for instance, the cost of food, markets, and methods of buying, 
food sanitation and adulteration of textiles. At present these variants 
are of vital import in our daily lives and must therefore be emphasized 
in any household arts course that is to be a live course. To illustrate, 
instead of basing a course upon food principles and methods of prepar- 
ation, food economics should be made the large thought and the ques- 
tion of these principles should be secondary. Some such problem 
can be given as the following: What should be the allowance for food 
for a family for a year with a given income? This being decided upon 
what kind of food can we have every day? Or, given 50 cents, what 
can be purchased for a family of four or six for a dinner that will ful- 
fill the dietary requirements? Such questions as these when taken 
seriously will revolutionize the course of study. 

Another aspect of the matter is the effect upon laboratory methods 
of the tendency toward vocational work. In work in foods the giving 
of small quantities only is a most ineffective practice. While the small 
quantity need not be discarded for the teaching of certain principles 
it must be in some way supplemented by the handling of material 
in large quantities. This must be accomplished by utilizing every 
opportunity possible for working in connection with a school lunch- 
room, or by making articles to be sold. Again, the need of repetition 



1914] Teaching of Foods and Sanitation 235 

in the practical work is keenly felt by those teachers who are work- 
ing for efficiency, and this will necessitate a change in the course of 
study. 

Current thought in the world of education is also having its effect 
upon the household arts work, working with these other elements in 
the situation to produce a change in method. The idea that we must 
give to the pupils what will function in their own lives is applicable 
in the household arts field. The household arts teacher will seek for 
opportunities in the life of the school to make the work real ; coopera- 
tion, for instance, in school entertainments which form at present so 
large a part of school life. Indeed the whole course will be planned 
with the thought in mind of what the pupil herself needs and what she 
can take to the family rather than from the point of view of applying 
science in a neatly arranged and more or less logical course. The 
teacher of the household arts has never before had such an oppor- 
tunity as now presents itself in our great cities and in the rural com- 
munities, if she can free herself from her own preconceived ideas and 
throw into the waste basket the course of study that was useful in 
its day but is no longer worth while. 



SOME RECENT EXPERIMENTS IN THE TEACHING OF 
FOODS AND SANITATION 

Cora M. Winchell 

Instructor in Household Arts Education, Teachers College, New York City 

The one-time "cooking teacher" is a personage of the past. In the 
fore ranks of education today stands her successor — the broad minded 
teacher of household arts, inspired by sympathy and stimulated to 
effective service through an appreciation of her opportunities in a con- 
stantly widening field. 

The woman who enters this field of service must possess coiu-age, 
initiative, faith, and the spirit of experimentation and adventure. 
Occasional failure and frequent disappointment must be welcomed 
as building stones in the structure which is growing under her hands. 
She must know that her success will depend upon her ability to 
realize the needs of those whom she serves and, given this, upon the 
power to meet those needs with sanity and sympathetic wisdom. 

Fortunate is the teacher of foods and sanitation who is unlling to 



236 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

venture and is free to do so. She will discover that her laboratory is 
unbounded, that her subject matter is limitless, and that each day may 
be an enthusiastic excursion into new and interesting fields. 

Many agencies are already well established which serve to unify 
and vitalize the numerous avenues of work which teachers of house- 
hold arts rightfully claim as their own. The Camp Fire Girls move- 
ment has cast a romantic glow over many of the simple home tasks 
through honors, rhyme and song. The canning clubs, first estab- 
Hshed by southern enthusiasts, have dignified certain forms of work 
and have given it a money value. The Housekeeping Centers of New 
York City, established and directed by Miss Mable Hyde Kittredge, 
have successfully demonstrated the possibility of duplicating the 
home in the school. Credit for home work as developed in numer- 
ous communities throughout the country has very successfully effaced 
the barrier between the home and the school. 

The papers which follow are brief statements of experiments in 
the teaching of foods and sanitation. They have helped to vitalize the 
work as handled by these teachers; and although they make no specific 
claim of originality, they are offered as possibly suggestive in their 
adaptation. The first is an account which Miss Mary Elizabeth 
Pillsbury has written of work done at a neighborhood house during 
her senior year in the Household Arts Education Department of 
Teachers College. 

It all came as the result of asking this question: "How can these 
boys and girls be made to want all that there is for them in the house- 
hold arts treasure box?" The four room flat which the boys and girls 
called home was the answer to that question. 

A cooking teacher was needed in a Settlement House on the upper 
East Side. The people in that district were either ItaUan born or of 
parents who were born in Italy. The houses were typical of the tene- 
ment districts, three and four box-Uke rooms being made to house 
large families averaging seven or eight each. The Settlement House 
itself was a substantial three story frame house. 

Here, one evening in September, on the top floor in a small room 
six Italian girls came together to learn to cook. The equipment con- 
sisted of a sheet iron gas range wdth two burners, a few utensils, a long 
table and cold water supply. That was in September. By the end of 
January, necessar>^ additions having been made to the equipment 
from time to time, we had covered in our weekly meetings typical 



1914] Teaching of Foods and Sanitation 237 

breakfast dishes, candy making, and cake making. As for the cooking 
of food the work was progressing smoothly. But that was a small part 
of the household arts treasure store ; the serving of the prepared meal 
the care of the dining room, the selection of food, care and storage in 
the home, home sanitation, and many other problems had to be passed 
by with a few words. In our one little room we could do nothing 
with these vital problems. 

A flat of three or four rooms, in the district in which the boys and 
girls lived seemed to be the necessary thing. It would be a "home" 
where we, as a big family would naturally enter upon the activities 
of the home — cleaning, washing, ironing, sewing, mending, cooking, 
etc. 

After careful figuring, the amount of $200 was found to be the lowest 
estimate for furnishing and repairing and for three months' rent of a 
suitable four room flat. The Settlement promised Sioo and the rest 
was secured, either in money or furnishings, by personal letters. 

In selecting the flat, light and air were considered but much interior 
painting and tinting had to be done in order to make the place desirable. 
Much of this work was done by the boys and later they stained the 
furniture which was purposely bought unfinished. The kitchen equip- 
ment was placed by the children, necessary shelves put up, and 
the home gradually put into running order. No boy or girl is ad- 
mitted to a cooking class unless he or she has on an apron. The 
boys cut out and made their aprons, using the style that the butchers 
wear. One teacher said, "The boys think they are being taught to 
cook, but we think we are teaching them to be clean." Five of the six 
boys in one class have been persuaded to take a bath and clean up 
before coming to the class. The care of the hands is being insisted 
upon and with the help of rose water and glycerine, which is distrib- 
uted in small bottles, the rough black skin has given away to smoother 
and cleaner skin than was ever thought possible. All this has been 
accomplished in the name of "cooking." 

For a recent exhibition the boys made 350 doughnuts and made and 
served waflGies and coffee for 50 people; the girls made 50 cup cakes, 2 
pounds of fudge, and 2 pounds of butterscotch, and made and served 
7 quarts of peach and apricot marmalade. The sum of $4.11 was 
cleared after all expenses had been deducted. 

We hear of lack of interest in certain mechanical processes, so 
essential in the training of the thorough housewife. Miss Florence 



238 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

E. VVinchell, Director of the Department of Domestic Science, Eth- 
ical Culture School, New York City, tells in the following statement 
of the satisfying results of a cleaning contest. 

The cleaning lesson is an absolute necessity in household arts work 
irrespective of the age of the pupils. Distaste for such lessons is due 
principally to the disappointment felt by the girls when they find 
they are not going to cook. Certainly such an attitude is dampening 
to the ardor of the sympathetic teacher, for so much of the pleasure in 
school work depends upon the team work between pupil and teacher. 
The cleaning lesson often seems to need something to clear the atmos- 
phere and set an attractive goal for the group to work toward. 

The success resultmg from contests in bread making, corn raising 
tomato canning, etc., prompted us to put a cleaning lesson in two 
seventh grade classes in the Ethical Cvilture School upon the contest 
basis. The two classes worked at the same hour in adjoining labora- 
tories. The choice of judges, one from each class, was made entirely 
upon the reputations of the children for good judgement and fair deal- 
ing. Each judge was given a score card and asked to mark every 
girl in both classes on each point. They worked independently and at 
the end the scores were averaged. 

After a brief discussion of the score card as typical of the require- 
ments made by employers of all kinds of help the groups went to work. 
Such vigor, such businesslike attitude, and such results were unprece- 
dented. With those particular classes the scheme worked like a charm. 
The difficulty came in getting the classes to leave the laboratory. The 
completion of the score cards depended upon the finishing of all the 
work and held up the final report. However, no engagements were 
pressing enough to prevent their waiting for the decision of the 
judges. The decision was accepted gracefully by the girls of both 
groups. In the score card used the division of points w^as made as 
follows: 

Manner (animation, vigor, quietness), 25; method — speed 15, 
neatness 15, handling of material 15; result — cleanliness 15, order 15. 

The debate described by Miss Amy Logan, teacher of foods and san- 
itation, Horace Mann School, New York City, is suggestive as a means 
of strengthening interest and research in \dtal food problems. Miss 
Logan writes: The domestic science class in the sophomore year of 
the Horace Mann High School was recently using a can of tomatoes 
to make a sauce. The class had already canned vegetables and put 



1914] Teaching of Foods and Sanitation 239 

up preserves, and as one girl opened the tomatoes she said; "I wonder 
if they are as good as ours. Is it better to put them up at home or to 
buy them?" Another remarked that this sounded like a "debate 
question." Whereupon they asked the teacher if the class might de- 
bate the point. Consent was readily given. A girl was selected to 
act as president, who stated the question: "Resolved, that foods can- 
ned at home are better than commercially canned goods." Four girls 
volunteered for the affirmative, four for the negative, and a lesson 
period two weeks ahead was set as the date. The teacher suggested 
several books and magazines for use as reference and placed copies in 
the school library. She then consulted the English teacher who kindly 
offered to coach the class in the formalities of debating, but used other 
subjects as illustrations leaving this one for the girls' independent 
effort. 

On the appointed day the president chose a time keeper and a sec- 
retary while the remaining members of the class acted as judges. 
The speakers quickly warmed to their subject and discarded their 
rough briefs; indeed, the interest and excitement became so intense 
that time was called on several of the debaters and the president 
was obliged to call order to prevent the judges from joining in the 
discussion. 

The points advanced by the affirmative were: better flavor of home 
products, individual preferences, assurance of purity, and the house- 
wife's control of sanitary conditions. The negative contended that 
commercial goods generally cost less; that they save labor in hot kitch- 
ens, that they are always procvirable at the grocer's, that the large 
canneries with modern equipment secure better sterilization than is 
secured in many homes, and provide perfect cleanliness. (Example, the 
Franco-American establishment which many of the class had visited.) 

This last point wrought the downfall of the negative, for in the re- 
buttal the leader of the affirmative with fine scorn declared that if 
a "housewife did not care to keep her kitchen clean and allowed kit- 
tens to play about, she deserved to eat grocery-store mince pies!" 

Altogether it was an excellent lesson. The girls felt the responsibility 
for its success and since they had suggested holding the debate and 
were free to develop the material they were on their mettle before the 
judges. Also their interest in the canning industry, that big phase of 
our modern food conditions, has been thoroughly aroused as shown by 
the bits of information often brought to class — information that would 
have made fine points in the debate. 



240 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

The cost of living in New York City is perforce one of the dominant 
subjects for discussion in the homes of many families. In order to 
personalize the work of the Eighth Grade at Speyer School, during the 
current year the following scheme has been developed : A typical fam- 
ily, Mr. and Mrs. Knickerbocker, and their children, Mary aged 
12, Hans aged 8, and Betty aged 2, have moved to New York City 
from Connecticut. Mr. Knickerbocker is a salesman, earning $1200 
per year. Under the following problems the work of the year has 
progressed. • 

What must Mr. Knickerbocker's salary pay for? How can he and 
his wife divide it so that they can pay the bills and still have some 
left for a rainy day? 

What can Mrs. Knickerbocker do during the summer, while visiting 
her mother on a Connecticut farm, that will help to keep the grocery 
bills lower in winter? 

How can Mrs. Knickerbocker know which foods will give her family 
what they need for health and growth? What are Mrs. Knicker- 
bocker's hygenic responsibilities? 

How do Mrs. Knickerbocker's simple tastes in dress and house 
furnishings affect her laundry problem? 

How much shall the Knickerbockers spend for Thanksgiving dinner, 
and what shall they have? Preparing for the Christmas holidays — 
Grandmother and Grandfather to be guests. "The fire of hospitality 
in the home and the glow of cordiality in the heart." Mr. and Mrs. 
Knickerbocker entertain very simply in the evening. What shall they 
serve? 

The planning of the meals. Mrs. Elnickerbocker finds that eggs 
are growing cheaper and taste better. How can she use them in 
her meals? What other food may she serve that will help to keep 
down the meat bill and still give her family enough protein? Using 
the "left overs" as a means of keeping down the grocery and meat 
bills. 

Shall Mrs. Knickerbocker bake or buy her bread? 

Betty is in her "second summer." What can the mother do to 
keep her well and happy? (Demonstration of bathing and dressing 
of babies.) 

Hans' birthday. What shall his mother serve at his party? 

Under each problem as stated the practical processes connected 
with foods, their selection, their preparation and service, cleaning 



1914] Need of Home Economics in Education 241 

and laundry work are taught. In a course on "The Home" during 
the second half year, the actual rejuvenation of the roof-room at Speyer 
furnished the basis for the discussion of art, comfort and sanitation 
in the home. 

A bread contest among the girls of the seventh and eighth grades 
followed the lessons on bread making. The bread was made at school 
by the girls, was judged by three members of the staff in the Foods 
and Cookery Department, Teachers College, and was served with cakes 
and cocoa at the parents' meeting, at which time the results of the 
contest were announced. 

Is it not helpful for teachers to read of the adventures of others 
in this new and fascinating field? There is true inspiration in the 
reahzation that the work calls for more than serious, plodding, daily 
duty; that it demands originality, spontaneity and adaptability to 
environment. 

THE NEED OF HOME ECONOMICS IN EDUCATION 

[The importance of Home Economics is discussed from different points of 
riew in the pages which follow.] 

HOME ECONOMICS AND HIGHER EDUCATION' 

Abby L. IVIarlatt 

Higher education has been so long dominated by the study of the 
humanities that we now find opposition when there is an attempt to 
increase the number of the subjects which are supposed to give moral 
and intellectual discipline, to elevate and humanize the student. The 
question comes, not does the study of the newer subject widen the 
view but is it honored by custom or is it so far divorced from daily 
use that the perspective softens the crude outline and allows us to 
read into our half seen picture the imaginative ideal that stimulates 
speculation? 

After all why should a few centuries or decades between us and the 
topic make so much difference in the moral and intellectual outlook 
gained? Can we not gain in power and breadth of view, providing we 
pursue the subject intensively and also broadly? 

' Extracts from papers prepared by Abby L. Marlatt for the Second International 
Congress for the Teaching of Household Economics, Ghent, Belgium, and for the 
Home and School League, Philadelphia. 



242 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

Are food, clothing, shelter and family, when studied through Greek 
and Roman History cultural but when studied in relation to our city 
slums or country villages utilitarian and therefore uneducational? 
If time has such a refining influence in separating the gold from the 
dross, then time is the true alchemist. In future ages the study of 
Home Economics will rank as pure gold in the education exchange, for 
the present home will be archaic and therefore divorced from use 
and a subject of speculation. Even now it is difficult to determine what 
may be history and what may be the tool of tomorrow's labor. All 
Home Economics courses confront the shifting of social standards and 
therefore it means that the "do" of today becomes the "history" of 
tomorrow. Over night our pet theory becomes another "hypothesis 
that does not work." Little of our knowledge has the exactness of 
mathematics. Each day sees some new discovery which makes the 
explanation of yesterday impossible. That is the joy and the sorrow 
of the student whose mind is open. We sigh for "dead languages" 
that are so quiet in their repose and need only to be excavated with 
care. To study where every tomorrow may explain the unknown 
of yesterday, that is the joy of the explorer. 

The broadest education for the woman who is to make the home of 
the future must have as its center the training in that body of knowl- 
edge called Home Economics if it is to be most efficient. 

That the woman of trained mind is needed in the control of the 
factors of the modern home is voiced by Mrs. Richards in her book on 
the "Cost of Living." "The educated woman longs for a career, for 
an opportunity to influence the world. Just now the greatest field of- 
fered to her is the elevation of the home into its place in American 
life. * * * * The housewife who is worried by her servants, 
cheated by her tradesmen and is helpless before her furnace and her 
cook is still a savage — has not grasped the meaning of the environ- 
ment which we call home." 

The modern home is a laboratory for applied science where the effort 
should be for the maintenance of the physical well-being and for pre- 
senting the right environment which shall lead to perfection in the 
child's mental and moral development. 

To manage this working laboratory with its water supply, its heating 
and lighting apparatus, its sewage system and its ventilation prob- 
lems, requires more than ordinary sense. It requires an education 
in applied chemistry, physics, biology, botany, sociology, business 
methods and general household management. 



1914J Need of Home Economics in Education 243 

There is no other profession which so bristles with unsolved prob- 
lems, for instance: What industries may be removed from the home? 
What industries should be retained? What is gained or lost in utilizing 
public laundries, bakeries, housecleaning companies? What moral 
and economical problems are to be met in using ready-made clothing? 
Shall the helper live in the house or come in for certain stated hours? 
What moral relation is there between wastefulness in wealthy homes 
and false standards among the less well-to-do? Should the present 
kitchen equipment be sacrificed and the electric hotplate and fireless 
cooker substituted? Is there not greater economy in many homes 
having a central heating plant requiring the services of but one man? 
What should be the relation between the expenditure and the income? 

None of these can be answered alike for all, and therein lies the 
difficulty and the pleasure in household management — it takes brains. 



HOUSEHOLD ADMINISTRATION. HOME ECONOMICS AND 
DOMESTIC SCIENCE* 

F. F. Wesbrook 

These are terms with which we are all familiar and indicate that this 
generation is waking up to the need of special training for the most 
important work in nation-building. The successful making and 
keeping of the home is indeed a profession which requires the most 
careful training of women of the best moral fiber and the highest 
mental equipment. The housekeepers of our land are those who per- 
haps spend the bulk of the nation's money. Yet in the past there has 
been little in the way of careful training for this most important 
economic work. The home-keeper is not less important in our social 
development. We leave to woman very many nondescript duties 
included in the care of the home. She it is who knows all details of 
the children's physical and intellectual progress. She has accurate 
information about our schools. To her we turn when problems of 
civic house-cleaning and house-keeping arise through man's negligence. 
It is, therefore, most appropriate that at length we are pro^ading prac- 
tical as well as cultural training in order to enable woman to meet 
some of her obligations. 

' Extract from inaugural address by F. F. Wesbrook, president of the Uni- 
Tcrsity of Winnipeg. Science, n. s. xxxix, 1914, no. 1003, pp. 407-418. 



244 '^^^ Journal of Home Economics [June 

Universities must train our leaders in women's work and provide 
facilities for research in the science of home-making and the art of 
housekeeping, if the word "home" is to remain current in the vocabu- 
lary, and this most important phase of our national life is to keep 
abreast of commercial and industrial progress. 



THE HOME MAKER'S SCHOOL' 

Margaret Stannard 

The private schools, of which there are many in the United States, 
seem best fitted to offer instruction in home making. They have 
relatively small classes, freedom in the planning of work, and girls chiefly 
from families in which there is no economic pressure. These girls have 
little, if any, home training in this direction, and it is most important 
both for themselves and because of their influence on other less privi- 
leged classes. At the present time the private schools are doing prac- 
tically nothing. The refusal of the private or endowed colleges to 
give credit for Home Economics is one reason for this, no doubt. 
Another is, that the private school itself cannot see much beyond the 
"trade" side of the work. To them homemaking means merely cook- 
ing and sewing. They fail to see that there is a home side to every 
subject taught, which would broaden, not contract, the field of culture. 
This fact needs but to be recognized by public and private schools 
to dignify the work and to make it popular with the best type of girls. 

Meanwhile, special schools of home making are needed to supple- 
ment and extend academic training. 

There are already a few such schools in the United States to serve 
as object lessons. These schools offer one or two-year courses to girls 
who have graduated from secondary schools or from colleges. They 
do not prepare for teaching or other wage-earning occupations, and 
are professional only in the sense that home making is a profession. 
Their aim is manifold: To save a girl the hardship of learning solely 
by her own experience; to save the family and society the waste of 
such methods; to make of every woman an intelligent cooperator in 
improving home conditions; to remind academic schools of their duty 
and to suggest to them ways of performing it. 

» Extracts from a paper prepared by Margaret Stannard for the Second Inter- 
national Congress for the Teaching of Household Economics, Ghent, Belgium. 



1 9 1 4] Equipment of Washington Irving High School 245 

In these special schools, all the work centres around the home. 
History becomes the study of the evolution and growth of the family 
as an institution, and of its relation to other institutions; home life 
at different periods is also studied as a revelation of its influence on 
the whole social and political order. Ethics becomes a study of family 
relationships and their corresponding duties; psychology and physiology 
are brought to the service of childhood, and the further responsibility 
for the next generation is emphasized by the study of tugenics. 

Literature is discussed with reference to the choice of books for the 
home library, the various uses of books for inspiration, amusement, 
education etc., for old and for young. The principles of art are used 
in the selection of home music and pictures, and also in the building 
of the house, in its furnishing and adornment and finally in the selection 
of clothing for the family. Economics, combined with practice in buy- 
ing and accounting, provides for the business side of the home makers 
work. Experiments in applied chemistry, bacteriology and physics 
furnish a scientific foundation for the study of food, of sanitation, of 
mechanical devices, etc. 

The so-called trade side of the home maker's work, cooking and 
sewing, is allowed its due share of time, both for the illumination of 
principles and for the development of practical skill. The work of 
the modern home maker, however, is chiefly economic and educational, 
rather than industrial; she must learn to adjust values and to choose 
wisely for herself and for her family. 



THE EQUIPMENT OF THE WASHINGTON IRVING 
HIGH SCHOOL 

Edythe M. Pownall 

The Washington Irving High School, New York City, has been 
given many names — "the largest high school in the world," "the 
school of a thousand welcomes," "the school that is different," "the 
school with the go." It has deserved all of them, some more than 
others, and many factors have contributed toward making it worthy 
of them. Not least among these is the equipment for all the courses 
— the result of the thinking and planning of the heads of these 
courses during the long ten years before the present school building 
had actually materialized. 



2^6 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

The idea of those who planned the building was to have certain 
floors devoted to certain subjects. Some floors are given up entirely 
to what we might call academic class rooms, while others have rooms 
designed for the technical subjects, with additional academic rooms for 
the academic subjects that the girls of those courses take. Thus we 
find the commercial work on the second floor, the domestic art entirely 
on the third, domestic science on the fourth, and science on the 
fifth. Drawing is concentrated mainly on the sixth, seventh and 
eighth floors, and shares the space with the music rooms, the chemistry 
and physics laboratories, and the regular recitation rooms. The 
gymnasiums, which accommodate every one of the five thousand girls 
twice a week, are in the basement, and on the fourth and eighth floors. 

Visitors — and there are many — have varied purposes, but not a few 
come mainly to see the equipment, the fame of which has spread 
widely, particularly to those communities that are contemplating new 
school buildings of their own. Such a visitor is shown from cellar to 
garret, or, in terms of the Washington Irving, from the bright, welcom- 
ing foyer to the sunny, spacious roof. The foyer, with its pictures 
(the Washington Irving High School is a regularly constituted Munic- 
ipal Art Gallery and already boasts of five different exhibits this year), 
with comfortable chairs and benches, and with smiling girls to guide 
the visitor over the building, lives up to the motto of hospitality en- 
graved over its blazing fireplace. This fireplace is the pride of the 
young guide, who is loath to conduct the visitor away, even to the 
auditorium. The auditorium accommodates about fifteen hundred. 
From its gallery, lantern slides and moving pictures can be exhibited. 
The stage has dressing rooms and is equipped with four or five settings 
and drops. The Children's Educational Theater has used it frequently 
to present the "Prince and the Pauper. " 

The remainder of the first floor is taken up with offices, a book-bind- 
ing room, fitted up with an imposing table and a printing press; the 
salesroom, in which the work of the art and domestic art and science 
departments is sold ; and the library. Adjoining the library is the class 
room for the girls who take the library course. Here the young libra- 
rians find their desks fitted with racks for their black and red ink pens, 
and with small drawers to the side, for practice in card cataloging. 

Only one room is needed for the library girls, for the number taking 
the course is small, but a whole floor and more is devoted to the rooms 
of the commercial courses. The second floor contains almost all of the 



1914] Equipment of Washington Irving High School 247 

commercial work. There are stenography rooms with ruled boards 
and typewriting rooms with typewriting desks and desks that hold the 
mimeographs. In the bookkeeping rooms the girls sit on high revolving 
chairs, with the ledgers kept open by the brass clamps that hold them 
upright against the high back of the desks. On this floor, too, are the 
bookkeeping rooms and the bank — complete in every detail, with 
paying teller, receiving teller, bank book, deposit slip, and depositor. 

The domestic art and the domestic science departments occupy the 
two middle floors of the building. The dressmaking girls are proud of 
their department, and grow attached to these rooms where they spend 
almost half of each school day. They will point out with pleasure the 
closets with compartments into which the sewing-boxesfit — or the ward- 
robes with the brass rods and ' ' arms ' ' from which the finished garments 
hang. At one corner of the room heavy brown curtains enclose a fit- 
ting room with a full length mirror and a stand for the hanging of 
skirts. The sewing tables are cutting tables as well. A wash basin, 
electric irons for pressing, and sewing machines complete the outfit 
of each sewing room , although in one there is also to be found a perforat- 
ing machine, in another a hand loom, while a third is given over en- 
tirely to hand and power machines. The halls of the building above 
the main floors are lined with exhibition cases for the work of each 
department. In the domestic art department these are used largely 
for exhibits of laces, of embroideries and weavings of many countries, 
and of specimens of old time dress, precious relics of grandmother's 
day, loaned to the department. An unusually complete exhibit of 
spinning wheels is worthy of mention, although it could not properly 
be called part of the general equipment. 

The Domestic Science Department is concentrated on the fourth 
floor, and consists of four kitchens, an exhibition dining room, a laun- 
dry and a model apartment. In each kitchen is a series of marble- 
topped tables with drawers and cupboards, for the kitchen utensils 
of each cook. On this marble top at regular intervals stand the in- 
dividual stoves, consisting of one burner with a detachable oven. The 
broiling and roasting are done in the large institutional stove which 
almost fills one side of the room. The remainder of the room is taken 
up with large cupboards and porcelain sinks. In connection with the 
cooking, the girls are taught serving in the exhibition dining-room, one 
of the most attractive rooms in the building. It is in the kitchen and 
this room that the domestic science students busy themselves for three 



248 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

of the five months of the course; the other two are spent in the laundry 
and the model apartment. The laundry has twelve porcelain tubs, 
an electric drier, a large wash boiler, a small gas stove for the making 
of starch, and electric irons. 

The model apartment is the pride of the domestic science section. 
It invites all to come and see how five rooms and a bath may make an 
artistic, an inexpensive and an efficient home — or at least, be the frame- 
work for such a home. It is composed of a bath, a kitchen, a pantry, 
a dining room, living room, bed room and a nursery. Not only are the 
girls taught economy (if money and energy, and for that purpose are 
introduced to a kitchen containing a fireless cooker and a kitchen cabi- 
net, but they are given lessons in decoration — in simple color combi- 
nations of wall-paper, hangings and furniture. The living room is sup- 
plied with three different sets of furniture — mahogany, craftsman and 
willow, the dining room with mahogany and craftsman, the bed-room 
with a white and an oak set. The paper of the nursery has a deep 
nursery rhyme frieze, the famous inhabitants of which look down upon 
a white iron crib, a shining white chest of drawers, a baby's washstand, 
and a low white rocker. 

Many of course are the changes in curtains and hangings that can 
be made to suit these various sets, but to change the wall paper was at 
first a problem. It was solved by having the molding put on hinges. 
Thus it can be raised, different strips of paper tacked into place, and 
a new wall paper, calling plainly for a change in furniture, is the result. 
The living room and dining room can be thrown into one, and with the 
hangings between the two, the low couch, and the curtains at the 
windows, offer much opportunity for studies in materials, and in com- 
binations of colors. 

The floor above the domestic science department is devoted to the 
biology department. It contains a vivarium, supplied with specimens 
from the Zoological Gardens in the Bronx and has an annex on the 
roof in the shape of a greenhouse. In the botany room the desks are 
arranged so that the girls face each other. Thus they can work with 
the same specimen, although individual microscopes are used. Exhi- 
bition cases lined with mirrors, storage closets supplied with ice boxes 
and basins, a chart room, and a room fitted wnth a lantern and slides 
for illustrated lessons, are some of the features of this department. 

Rooms so fitted out are also to be found in the physics and chemistry 
departments, in addition to their fully equipped laboratories. Such 



1914] Public Baths in Large Cities 249 

rooms are at the disposal of any department that can use them, and are 
a distinct adjunct to the academic class rooms. These latter rooms 
differ from the average class room in their show cases, their filing 
cabinets, their many storage closets, and chiefly in their desks, which 
are not desks in the ordinary sense, but are tables with shelves under- 
neath. The art department has developed a special variety of desk — 
one with places for pen, water and ink, and a movable top on hinges, 
which may be raised to any angle and used as a sketching board. In 
cooperation with the domestic art department, they have a costume 
design room, containing full length mirrors and blackboards, and desks 
which are arranged in a semi-circle, with a platform for the model in 
the center. 

Music rooms like small concert halls, gymnasiums fitted with the 
newest apparatus, lunch rooms and rest rooms, complete the building 
and bring the visitor to the roof where he may rest and watch a rapid 
game of basket-ball, or where he may ponder, as he gazes over the city 
stretching out before him, upon the activities of the miniature city 
housed beneath him. 



PUBLIC BATHS IN LARGE CITIES 

Thomas M. Beadenkoff 
Secretary of Public Bath Commission, Baltimore 

On account of the imiversal lack of clean bodies and clean clothing, 
clean houses and clean streets and roads, the Black Death and other 
plagues found a soil ready for rapid growth. The Black Death visit- 
ation of 1348 is said to have carried away about one-half of the 
population of Great Britain. It is only within the last century that 
medical science has awakened to the value of simple cleanliness as the 
best defence against disease. 

Slowly the idea of the need of bathing facilities in the home has 
grown and widened until in some localities, in American cities espe- 
cially, there is ample provision for baths in the home. Unfortunately 
this is not the general condition. American travelers are well aware 
of the lack of baths in Continental hotels and the bath room as known 
in American homes is rarely found in the average city residence abroad. 
In the capital of Holland, The Hague, nine residences in ten are 



2^0 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

without bathing facilities. The city of Amsterdam, with a population 
of 400,000, averages 27 gallons of water per day to each inhabitant. 
American cities like Chicago, Bufifalo and New York, average from 
150 to 200 gallons of water each day to each inhabitant. These facts 
indicate that the facilities for cleanhness in many European cities are 
too meager to insure public health. Many American cities are no 
better off in their older and congested sections. A government inspec- 
tion, made some years ago in what were called slum districts of New 
York, Philadelphia, and Baltimore showed as high as 90 per cent 
of the population to be without bathing facilities. 

For such neighborhoods public baths have been established in 
many European and American cities. The first one in Great Britain 
was built in Liverpool in 1842. Soon the idea spread to Dundee, 
and later to cities of the Continent. In America since 1890 most of 
the leading cities have established these baths and they are largely 
used. In 191 1 New York City had twelve public baths containing 
1377 showers and tubs and three pools. At a cost of $336,000 for 
maintenance and operation, 3,581,846 baths were provided during 
that year. 

In Baltimore in 1894 a group of philanthropic men and women, to 
meet the demand for a harbor swimming place, erected a few sheds on 
the beach; they were well patronized and for a few years the city con- 
tributed $500 annually toward the erection and maintenance of these 
dressing sheds at three or four stations around the harbor. Each 
year 35,000 or 40,000 bathers used these places but the promoters of 
the plan did not forget that sanitary cleansing baths were more impor- 
tant than summer recreation baths and several meetings were held in 
connection with the Maryland Public Health Association in 1898 
and 1899 urging the establishment of indoor cleansing baths for con- 
gested neighborhoods. 

As a result of this agitation, there followed the generous gifts of 
Mr. Henry Walters who erected and opened the first Baltimore cleans- 
ing bath. Its value was immediately proven by a patronage, during 
the year 1900, of 70,000 persons. Since that date Mr. Walters has 
erected three additional bath houses in other parts of the city and 
these four indoor cleansing baths with one erected by Baltimore City 
in 191 2 represent a total investment of $200,000 for the health and 
cleanliness of the people. 

It should be added that five public laundries are maintained for 



1 9 14] Public Baths in Large Cities 251 

men and women who have insufficient facilities for doing their personal 
or family laundry at home: these laundries are in the basements of 
the bath houses. In most of the Continental cities the public wash 
house is unknown, but in British cities it is hardly second in impor- 
tance to the bath house. 

Beside these five baths mentioned above, four smaller houses called 
"portable" baths are also used as part of the Baltimore system. 
These portable baths are set up temporarily at corner lots in needy 
or crowded sections and are supplied with hot and cold shower baths. 
In 1913, 74,500 persons used these houses. 

The original work of the bath promoters twenty years ago has not 
been neglected and simimer swimming and recreation are carried on 
at four other stations in the city : two in public parks and two on the 
harbor's edge. 

The present status may best be understood in a brief extract from 
the last annual report : 

In 1913 the indoor shower baths were used by 746,030 patrons, an increase of 
92,000 over the previous year and the outdoor swimming baths recorded 301,924 
patrons; an increase of 64,000. 

This grand total of 1,047,954 patrons represents large benefits to many classes 
of the community : To the poor living in congested sections who find in the baths 
an opportunity for health and cleanliness convenient to their homes; to other thou- 
sands who use the public laundries where for a few cents the family washing, dry- 
ing and ironing may be done outside the cramped quarters of their rooms; to the 
300,000 patrons of the outdoor swimming baths which furnish clean and whole- 
some recreation in the beautiful public parks or at the harbor's edge; and to the 
bathers at two athletic recreative centers where in 1913, 104,000 patrons were 
recorded. 

Another department of municipal work under the care of the Public Bath Com- 
mission is scarcely less important than any of the other foiu-, namely. The Public 
Convenience Stations. By a fairly accurate count 861,000 persons used the two 
convenience stations last year. 

The economy of management of baths and laundries, the freedom 
from poUtical or personal influences in making appointments of em- 
ployees, and the careftil sanitary regulations have resulted in a large 
success of our bathing system which has given our city a national 
reputation in this department. 



2^2 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

HEALTH HINTS FOR SUMMER 

H. W. Hill, M.D., D.P.H. 

Director, Institute of Public Health, London, Ontario 

Everyone looks forward to the summer time; some because of the 
pleasure they expect away from home at seaside or lakeside or in the 
mountains; others because, although they must stay at home, they 
will be more free than in winter, go out of doors more and "enjoy" Hfe 
better. This is true dt least in the temperate zones; as we near the 
tropics, however, the simimer is dreaded; and almost everywhere it is 
dreaded for children a year old, for the "second summer" is supposed 
to be the dangerous one. 

For Those Who Stay At Home 

Probably the most important health hint for summer time, for 
those who go away as well as for those who stay at home, is not a 
"hint" but a real knock down blow. It is this: the dangerous things 
about summer weather are heat and humidity; but the most dangerous 
is humidity; not the hot air but the dampness of the air. The next 
is that sun-stroke is not due to the sun shining on the head but to heat 
and humidity combined. The third thing is that the sunomer diarrhea 
so dreaded for young children is often not due to food, but to heat and 
humidity; and the last one is that if you must stay at home or keep 
your family at home or raise a year-old baby at home, saving your 
money to buy an electric fan will be the best siunmer investment you 
can make and will take away the need for many carfares, lemonade 
and ice cream charges; and will probably prevent sickness and even 
death. Every baby in our hot, hiunid towns in summer should have an 
electric fan. Why? 

A great many surprising things are always discovered the moment 
we "go-look-see" as the Chinese motto rims. For hundreds of years, 
perhaps thousands, we have all believed religiously in sunstroke and 
covered our heads to prevent it; and we should have kept on indefi- 
nitely believing that the rays "baked our brains" if some one had not 
experimented to find out — using monkeys, of course, at first. 

This is what was found out: a monkey in the tropics exposed 
motionless to direct sunlight without covering in the blaze of midday 
was usually killed in a short time perhaps half an hour. If his head 



1 91 4] Health Hints for Summer 253 

was well protected from the sun, but his body left exposed, he died 
almost as quickly. If however, his head was left exposed but his body 
was incased in a box through which a circulation of cool dry air was 
maintained, he survived indefinitely. Why? Because when wholly ex- 
posed to the sun or exposed all but the head, the monkey suffered from 
heat stagnation due to the heat of the sun preventing the escape of the 
monkey's own body heat through his skin; and the humidity of the 
monkey's own body, surrounding him like a blanket, only made this 
worse. When his body was incased in a box, and his own heat and 
humidity were removed constantly by cool dry air, the fact that his 
head remained exposed was of little importance. 

So also men confined in an air tight room soon began to suffer badly 
from headache, general weakness, etc., the results of "bad ventilation." 
They were allowed to breathe outside air brought to them through 
tubes directly to their mouths. This did them no good: then others 
who were outside were allowed to breathe the foul air from the box; 
this did them no harm. What, then, was the reason the men inside 
suffered from headache, etc? The answer is again, heat and htmiidity ; 
simply their own internal heat and their own external humidity lying 
around them like a blanket in the still air of the room. Turning on a 
strong electric fan, so that this blanket of hot and humid air next 
each man's skin was removed, greatly improved their condition with- 
out introducing a single particle of new air into the room. 

Remember to go into this summer, whether at home or away from 
home, with a firm determination to avoid heat and humidity all you 
can, and, if you cannot alter the heat and himiidity of the general atmos- 
phere, to keep the humidity and heat immediately surrounding your 
own body down to the safety mark. This means wearing light airy 
clothing and as little as possible of it: it means also circulation of air, 
moving yourself about if you cannot move the air. Most people have 
noticed that sitting still in summer on a windless day is really worse 
than doing something, because, in part at least, any sort of movement 
from place to place tends to leave behind you your own heat-and- 
hvunidity blanket. Not only discomfort and sickness but even death 
may be prevented by acting upon this knowledge. 

Of course, it is true that all exercise will increase your own output 
of heat and humidity. Do not imagine for a moment that active 
exercise while standing in one place, especially cooking or washing 
clothes, will remove your own heat and humidity: it will only make 
it worse. A gentle walk, however, will tend to cool you off because, 



2^4 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

although the heat and humidity you generate is increased, the air 
you pass through tends to remove it faster than before, provided 
always that the air itself is less hot and humid than your air-blanket. 

Children, especially Httle children, should be kept out of doors in 
the shade if there is even a breath of wind stirring; and babies should 
be almost free from clothing. But remember that sometimes the 
outside air -will be hotter and damper than indoors and if this is so, 
indoors may be better than outdoors especially on windless days and 
far better than outdoors sometimes if your have a fan running indoors. 

CooUng drinks are good so far as they go; but the more you drink, 
the more you\\dll sweat: sweating, it is true, cools ofif the body, on days 
when the humidity is low enough to permit the sweat to evaporate; 
but when the general humidity is high, sweating results in a layer of 
moisture forming on the skin, that will not and cannot evaporate 
because the air-blanket close about you soon becomes completely full 
of moistiu-e and can take up no more. Even then, however, a ciu-rent 
of air will usually remove the moisture, although sitting in still air will 
leave you surrounded by it. You must have noticed how you feel as 
if plunged into an oven when you suddenly stop walking or running 
on a hot, humid, windless day; although the walking or running made 
you sweat and suffer, yet standing still was even worse; all because of 
your own heat and humidity collecting about you. 

In sunamer time, iced water in moderation does no great harm: 
taken slowly, a sip at a time, it is a great relief often as a cooler; but 
for relief of thirst, water that is not iced is really more efficient. Ice 
cream is better than water to cool you off if you take it slowly, because 
there is not so much bulk of water in it to get rid of later. It is some- 
times claimed that cream and sugar and meat are objectionable in 
hot weather because they "heat the blood." Perhaps "heating the 
blood" may be a way of saying something that means that they furnish 
heat to the body; but ordinary diet is partly for that very purpose 
and you cannot do without such internal heat any more in siunmer 
than in wnnter. Ciu-iously enough, meat which is looked upon as 
" so heating" is no more so than bread or other starchy foods or sugar, 
while fat is twice as "heating." Moreover both starch (and sugar) and 
fat burn up more quickly in the body than meat does. The habit of 
abandoning meat in summer for bread and such things is not based on 
soimd principles. Children need protein to "grow on" as well as 
merely to repair waste. All an adult has to achieve is the latter. 
Children are very active in summer, and need nourishment in sum- 



1 9 1 4] Health Hints for Summer 255 

mer, to repair waste and also to grow on, just as much as at any 
other time. Better to feed them well and then see that any sur- 
plus heat so generated is properly removed than to starve them, 
merely to keep them cool. 

Bathing is a splendid way to get rid of extra heat. A restless 
irritable child, suflfering from heat and himiidity can often be greatly 
reUeved by stripping off all its clothes, turning on the fan, or giving 
a cool bath, not cold, of course. Sponging off is a great relief also; 
but in himiid weather, the child must be rubbed dry after it, otherwise 
the layer of water left on the skin, instead of cooling the child, adds to 
its own heat and humidity. 

The Care of Babies. The care of milk for babies is always essential 
all the year round, but especially so in summer. It is not only that 
germs grow faster under summer conditions, but also that every little 
thing wrong with the milk is made far worse in its effect on the baby 
because the baby is already suffering from the heat and humidity. 

Remember, especially, that only mother's milk is fit for babies under 
one year old. Eighty per cent, of all babies who die, are babies whom 
people try to "raise" on something besides mother's milk. If you are 
forced to use something else, do not take advice from the neighbors 
but get the best scientific advice you can, from the best baby doctor 
there is available, on how to make the poisonous foods that you must 
use do just as little harm to your particular baby as possible. Re- 
member that some forms of summer diarrhea are infectious, due to 
germs, just as is typhoid fever. Such germs may be carried by 
flies; also by fingers and milk, food, etc. In such cases all the pre- 
cautions necessary in nursing typhoid fever should be employed to 
prevent the spread of disease. All milk should be kept cool, and 
usually it should be pasteurized. 

Heat, himaidity, poor feeding are the things to guard against. If 
you get good milk and have it modified to suit the baby, you may still 
feed it too much or too little or at the wrong times, etc. You will see 
why the man was at least partly right when he answered the question. 
"What kills babies?" by the one word, "Mothers." 

For Those Who Go Away 

For benefit of "health," mental as well as physical, good food in 
plenty, a comfortable bed, and the chance to be out of doors the whole 
time, day and night, constitute ideals that all should seek. This means 



256 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

sleeping out of doors, in the open, under the stars, in good weather; 
under a shelter, if you must, in bad. All who can be away for a week 
or more will enjoy this immensely, but it is hardly worth doing for a 
few days' stay, if you must sleep indoors on your return. It is wise to 
wear some kind of night cap at first, as well as a warm nightdress; and 
an extra blanket should be ready for use towards morning. 

For avoidance of disease, the chief thing is to avoid association with 
infected persons in any such way as to receive from their infected 
discharges, directly, through mouth spray, sputum or hands, or indi- 
rectly, through water, food, flies, milk or the like, contaminated by 
mouth spray, sputum, hands or any bodily discharge. 

How can you tell what people to avoid? Of course, if you go to 
your own cottage, among your own friends, you will know pretty well 
what to expect. But if you must stay with many strangers at a hotel 
or siunmer resort you must, as a rule, take chances more or less, and 
learn by general observation and "gossip" what persons are or have 
recently been ill with an infectious disease. The best defences you 
can organize, short of identifying the dangerous persons, which, of 
course, is pretty diflicult in many cases, are connected with avoiding 
as far as possible, the mouth spray of strangers, or the handling by 
them of food, etc., that you intend to eat. The use of common roller 
towels, common drinking cups, etc., of course, is or should be, out of 
the question. 

The water supply should be from unquestionable sources. If a 
well, it should be a well with a good curb (flooring around the pump), 
tight, so that water falling back on it does not wash down again into 
the well; and built up above the surrounding ground so that rains, do 
not run under the curb edge into the well. In limestone districts, 
surface wells are all under suspicion, and it is safest to boil the water 
from such. If the water comes from the public supply of a town or a 
city, careful inquiry can usually determine whether the water supply is 
exposed to sewage contamination or not. Some cities are notorious 
for carelessness in drinking sewage. If the local residents like sewage 
that is no reason why you should spend your summer vacation there. 
No community where typhoid is prevalent is any place for you to visit. 

The milk supply should be from tested cows, and milked by clean, 
careful people. If a few of the women \'isitors at a summer resort 
will take an afternoon off together to see where the milk supply comes 
from, they will find it pays them wonderfully to do so, and they will 
learn, usually, some very surprising things. If you are uncertain about 



1914] Health Hints for Summer 257 

the milk, scald it. Remember that "summer people" are often con- 
sidered legitimate receptacles for anything in this line that is of no use 
to anyone else. 

Flies in the kitchen and dining-room should be reason enough for a 
determined presentation of the case to the resort authorities, but flies 
in the kitchen or dining-room, with unscreened outdoor toilets in the 
neighborhood , are reasons in plenty — one reason to each fly — for prompt- 
ly settling your bill and moving on. Summer vacation is no time to 
eat other people's bowel discharges with your food. 

As to the food itself, the cooked foods are practically safe unless 
they are served cold or cool enough for flies to walk on them. But 
uncooked foods, bread, sugar, milk, cake, celery, radishes, lettuce, etc., 
are always ready to carry fly infections or infections from mouth spray 
and hands. 

The cook's hands should be clean, and the vegetables should be 
washed and handled after the cook's hands are washed, not before, as 
very often happens. 

Mosquitoes in some localities are a fearful nuisance: and the malaria 
mosquito may of course, inoculate you with the disease. The safest 
way to avoid both nuisance and danger is to keep away from where 
the mosquitoes are. This wiU encourage the local people to get rid 
of the mosquitoes so that the summer visitor will go there. 

People often think there is something they can take that wiU prevent 
them from catching infectious diseases from other people, and they 
ask in confidence for " the secret remedy" which physicians are alleged 
to use for protecting themselves in visiting tuberculosis cases, typhoid, 
etc. ; of which it is supposed they wnll not tell the public, lest disease be 
too much reduced thereby. 

There are two such remedies available; for smallpox, vaccination; 
for typhoid fever, anti-typhoid inoculation. The former protects 
against smallpox for five years, the latter against typhoid for two years. 
Some day, when infectious diseases are properly looked after, neither 
will be needed. Even today, when we know where the infectious 
persons are, we can take precautions against them that make protective 
vaccinations unnecessary. But in some communities typhoid fever 
(perhaps the chief "summer vacationists" disease) is so common that 
your cook or milkman or vegetable man may be a convalescent or just 
coming down with it or even a "carrier;" and an ti- typhoid inoculation 
for summer vacationists before they leave home has been seriously 
advised by some authorities. Quinine is a fair preventive for 



2^8 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

malaria, but keeping away from malarial districts is a much better 
one. 

In certain cities the autumnal increase in typhoid fever is unques- 
tionably partly due to returned vacationists, developing the disease 
when they get back to work, for typhoid, as a rule, does not show 
even its earUest symptoms until two weeks after the germs enter 
the body, and usually another week at least elapses before the patient 
is sick enough to go to bed or call a doctor. 

The wise summer resort keeper is he who will have his place, his 
food, milk and water supplies, and his help, properly inspected before 
the season opens. This is good business, as well as being the act of 
any good citizen who wishes to do legitimate trade and give his cus- 
tomers safety as well as a "good time." 

In considering the relative importance, to the summer vacationist, of 
the different items here listed perhaps the most serious source of trouble 
(at least from typhoid, dysentery and other intestinal troubles) is the 
open, non-flyproof, outdoor toilet; the next, close association with 
convalescents or sick persons, especially indoors; the next, contamina- 
tion of milk and drinking water; and last, the contamination of foods. 
In any one place, of course, the local situation may make one or another 
factor outweigh all the rest. 



THE NEED OF TRAINED ASSISTANTS IN THE HOME 
Mary V. Shailer 

It is important that the possibilities in this new form of service be outlined and it 
is stUl more important that the plan be tested in an experimental way in as many 
localities as possible. Bringing the work and the worker together with satisfaction 
to both will be the difficult part. The Household Aids Company of Boston some 
years ago did an admirable piece of work along this line and the report of the experi- 
ment which was written by Mrs. Richards will be reproduced in an early number of 
the Journal. — Editor. 

The home of today is greatly in need of assistance from the outside 
in the form of young women who have been trained in housekeeping, 
decorating, sewing, caring for children, and secretarial work. Can 
we standardize and coordinate these lines of work and elevate them 
to a plane which will attract our young women and girls? 

1 Extracts from a paper presented at the annual meeting of the International 
Child Welfare League, New York, May, 1914. 



1914I Trained Assistants in the Home 259 

The greater activity of women in business, philanthropic and social 
affairs, calls for a system of easily obtainable assistance for the house- 
hold, to come at call by the hour, or, to be regularly engaged at inter- 
vals. Increasing apartment and hotel living, higher rents necessita- 
ting economy in the size of apartments, and the higher cost of living 
making the waste of unskilled labor a matter to be reckoned with, 
together with the greater personal demands made upon the house- 
keeper for lack of permanent service, have changed methods of house- 
keeping and brought about new conditions. 

"Efficiency methods" and "labor saving devices" are slogans of 
these newer conditions, and the home turns to the student of Home 
Economics for information and help. Can we make use of this need 
in the home, and the need of the young woman, and acting at a psy- 
chological moment, bring the two together? 

The Proposition. To offer to young women and girls who expect 
to go into factories, shops and offices, special training in the vocations 
so essentially those of women, so wholesome, and so much more 
remunerative than those of factory or shop. These activities may 
afford opportunity for self-improvement and an uplift of ideals to 
the girl by reason of her intercourse with refined people in their homes. 

The vocations are dignified, and many of them would command 
good pay while the training in Home Economics would be the best 
kind of preparation for the future homemaking of a girl. 

Training in Home Economics would reveal her fitness for the work 
most to her taste and ability. The domestically inclined girl would 
choose the subjects under housekeeping; the artistically inclined, 
decorative art; the girl loving little children could be advised to pre- 
pare for the "student nurse;" the girl liking to care for the sick would 
learn convalescent nursing. If secretarial work were preferred, the 
girl should also specialize in some department of Home Economics, 
thus making herself acquainted with more than one field. 

The factory offers but an incessant grind of machinery, a deadly 
monotony of toil, while a life of going from house to house offers 
possibilities for varied exercise and opens up a new world of experience 
and new opportunities. If the girl were capable and efficient, she 
would make friends of real value to her in her patrons. She would find 
change and variety in her various duties. 

The Advantages to the Patron. In the stress of a busy life, in case 
of a slight illness in the family, at times of entertaining, or at the 
busy seasons, an efficient and tactful young person who performed 



26o The Journal of Home Economics [June 

her task quickly with intelligence and system, should be a boon to 
a busy house mother or a weary business woman. In cases of emer- 
gency as when the home maker is temporarily ill, she may need a little 
nursing, a letter written, a book chosen at the library, the children 
bathed and taken out for air, a little mending at the stocking basket, 
packing done, flowers arranged, afternoon tea served, special arrang- 
ing of furniture, a guest chamber prepared for an expected guest, an 
invalid read to, an elderly person cared for, etc. The business side 
of the proposition should attract the house holder because of the sav- 
ing in cost of feeding, and in the rent of one less bedroom, both of which 
are to be considered with the present "li\dng in" assistance. 

Lodging. For the young girls who do not live with parents and 
are alone in the world, homelike boarding houses conducted by women 
of motherly years, capable of running a home for young girls, should 
be opened. (Here is work for dietitians who prefer home work.) 
In some parts of cities dwelling houses which could be utilized for 
this purpose have been left in business sections. Boarding homes 
could be opened in suburbs, and young students sent there from schools 
of preparation. Women's clubs should find practical work in open- 
ing a boarding home for the graduates from city schools. 

Sources for Training Already at Hand. There are many high 
schools and various colleges and institutes, as well as classes in settle- 
ments and church schools where courses in some of these vocations 
can be taken to supplement that of the elementary school until our 
school system establishes its vocational schools. Day nurseries could 
be used as clinics for training student nurses. 

The movement should be so organized, and the vocations so stand- 
ardized and coordinated that there would be no confusion with the 
service of employees now li\dng in the homes. This proposition is 
strictly for visiting vocations. 

Suggested Plan to Form a Test Group. A group of ten or more young 
women, preferably college or high school graduates, to be formed, 
who are already qualified for work in some of the fields outlined. 
These young women while working out the plan should not be obliged 
to be entirely self-supporting. 

There should be centrally located registration points at which 
applications for assistants would be received. 

Patrons should be secured through private mailing lists. 

A rigid investigation of all unknown applicants for a visiting stu- 
dent would be a necessary safeguard for the young girl. 



1914] Home Canning 261 

A schedule of prices for each kind of work should be printed for the 
benefit of both patron and assistant. 

The test group should be united by a common interest and an 
"esprit de corps" to succeed. Each girl should be chosen for her 
skill in her own specialty and for her tact. A common meeting place 
or club room should be arranged for where experiences can be dis- 
cussed for the sake of gaining help from one another. Patrons should 
be requested to consider the movement from a business point of view 
and to treat the labor in that light. In the course of the consider- 
ation of this proposition the writer has found a demand for the 
service, and many young women ready to give it. 



HOME CANNING 
Grace E, Stevens 

Department of Household Science, University of Illinois 

The great problem of food preservation is to prevent spoiling and yet 
retain the full food value and the original or a desirable flavor. 

The needs for food preservation are many: to prevent the waste 
of the season's fruits and vegetables; to extend their period of use with 
the least expense; to make possible an increase in the consumption of 
these foods which supply the needed mineral matter and bulk to main- 
tain good health; to preserve food in a form easily transported; and 
to give variety to our all too often monotonous winter diet. 

Each kind of the organisms, bacteria, yeasts and molds, which occur 
on all fresh food material and cause its decay, has its own preferences 
regarding food. Bacteria do not like sugar, nor do many of them like 
acid. They prefer protein-containing substances such as milk, eggs, 
meat, corn, peas etc. Therefore we find these foods spoiled most largely 
by bacteria, some varieties of which produce the seed-like forms, 
spores, which are very hard to kill. Yeasts prefer sugar and are not 
affected by weak acids. They, therefore, spoil our fruit juices. Both 
yeasts and yeast spores are easily destroyed. Molds grow on sur- 
faces such as jelly, bread and fruit, but are readily destroyed even ia 
the spore state. Since these microorganisms are plants, they require 
the conditions favorable to plant growth — food, warmth and moisture. 
The reaction of the material canned, whether acid or alkaline, has 
a decided bearing on the temperature at which microorganisms are 



262 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

killed. This is illustrated by the ease with which fruits (acid) are 
canned as compared with vegetables (non-acid). 

The methods of food preservation are classed as physical or chemi- 
cal. Cold storage, high heat, exclusion of air as in coating eggs or 
sealing jellies, and evaporation as in the natural drying of grains, 
vegetables and fruits, represent physical means. Salt, sugar and smoke 
represent chemical means generally conceded to be harmless, while 
such chemical agents as borax, salicylates and canning powders are 
not to be commended in foods. 

Canning is often a tedious process because thought has not been 
given to previous preparation. Cans, rubbers and covers should be 
looked over before the season opens and the necessary additions and 
subtractions made. There should be paraffin, corks for bottles and 
plenty of labels on hand. Then comes the beginning of the process 
which consists of buying the product to be preserved unless the home 
garden or orchard is the fortunate source of supply. The cost will be 
least and the quality of the materials best if large quantities are pur- 
chased during the prime of the season. The careful selection of good 
fruit that is neither over ripe nor decaying, will simplify the work and 
avoid great waste. The best portion should be used for canning and 
the poorer be made up into fruit butters or jams. 

Vegetables require even more careful selection as they are hard to 
preserve at best. They will sterilize more easily, be much sweeter, 
and more delicate and juicy if they can be obtained fresh from the 
garden, while they are still young and tender. It is a commonly known 
fact that such vegetables as peas and sweet corn rapidly lose their 
sweetness after gathering because the sugar is in part changed to starch. 

That these products may be canned under the best possible condi- 
tions, it is necessary to have the air and the canning room free from 
dust. The dishes used and the fruit cans should be thoroughly clean. 
No tin or iron ware should be allowed, since they are attacked by 
acids. The whole principle of canning is to kill by heat all bacteria, 
yeasts, molds and spores present and keep out all others. The 
result should be complete sterilization. One remaining microor- 
ganism can spoil a whole can. The can rubber serves as the seal 
against admittance of germ-laden air, and so it must be thick and 
flexible. 

Fruit is easy to preserve because bacteria are easily killed in the 
presence of the acid. Then, too, fruit bacteria are not ordinarily spore 



1914] Home Canning 263 

formers and are for that reason easily destroyed. A few fruits such 
as cranberries, rhubarb and gooseberries are so acidic that they can 
usually be kept by mere submersion in water. 

The fruit should be carefully prepared. All spots and bruises should 
be removed as these make sterilization more difficult and detract 
greatly from the appearance of the finished product. If using thin 
skinned fruits, a minute's scalding in boiling water will cause the 
skins to slip off easily. If necessary to prepare the fruit faster than it 
can be canned, it should be kept from darkening by dropping it into 
water made acidic by the addition of lemon juice or vinegar. 

The most conmion methods used for cooking and sterilizing fruit 
are the open kettle, the steamer, the oven and the fireless cooker. In 
the open kettle method, the fruit, preferably a small amount, is dropped 
into boiling syrup and cooked until tender. While still boiling hot, the 
material is filled into cans previously sterilized by ten minutes boiling. 
When these are full to overflowing, a cover and rubber, also sterilized, 
are adjusted and the can tightly sealed. In the steamer method, the 
fruit is carefully arranged in the cans as fast as prepared and the syrup, 
hot or cold, is poured over it to fill the can. The covers are adjusted, 
usually loosely (though many screw them tightly without resulting 
harm), and all are placed in a commercial steamer or an ordinary wash 
boiler containing cold water and fitted with a false bottom of pierced 
metal supported by strips 3 or 4 inches high. The cover is fitted on 
and the water brought to a boil and kept there from thirty to sixty 
minutes according to the fruit. If the cans are filled with hot syrup to 
make up for shrinkage, steam must again be applied for ten minutes. 
Then the covers, if loose, are tightened and the cans are allowed to cool. 
In the oven method the cans of fruit are prepared as for the steamer 
and then placed on asbestos sheets or in shallow pans of water in a 
moderately hot oven for twenty or thirty minutes. In the fireless 
cooker method, the filled cans are sealed, placed on a false bottom in a 
kettle containing water, boiled for ten or fifteeen minutes and then 
put into the cooker, water and all, to finish. 

The above methods have been carefully compared as to cost, con- 
venience and results. 

Cost of Gas 

Open kettle: i medium sized gas burner on half for 30 minutes = $.0045. This 

divided by 3 (quarts) = $.0015 per quart. 
Steamer: 2 medium sized burners on half for 40 minutes = $.006. This divided 

by 13 (quarts) = $.00046 per quart. 



264 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

Oven: 2 oven burners on half for 30 minutes = $ . 009. This divided by 14 (quarts) 

= $.00064 per quart. 
Fireless cooker: i medium sized burner on full for 10 minutes = $.003. This di- 
vided by 2 (quarts) = $.0015 per quart. 
This last method is useful and convenient for smaU quantities only. 

The drawbacks to the open kettle method are that constant atten- 
tion over a hot stove is required, the fruit is Hkely to become broken 
and valuable flavors volatilized; there is greater danger of spores falling 
in before the can is properly sealed and the hot cans, which must have 
been previously sterilized, must be handled more than in any other 
process. The oven method is considered easiest by some, but it 
requires much attention and causes most shrinkage in the can contents. 
The steamer method seems to lead with most favorable points : besides 
those evident from the above statements there are the advantages of 
plenty of water below to prevent burning; and the improved flavor 
and appearance of the product, since the cans need not be opened nor 
the fruit disarranged in any way after the first filling. There is a 
distinct advantage in filling the cans when cold with firm and comfort- 
ably handled fruit. The latter methods allow the putting up of 
from twelve to sixteen quarts at one time, depending upon the size of 
the oven or steamer. This decreases the fuel cost and the time and 
labor per can. If a range is employed, both methods can well be used 
simultaneously. 

Syrup for sweet fruits requires two cups of sugar to four of water; 
for sour fruits, two cups of sugar to two or three of water, but too 
much sugar spoils the natural flavor of the fruit. Long boiling of 
fruits in syrup decreases its sweetness, hence the need for previously 
steaming hard fruits. Large fruits require one pint of syrup to the 
quart while small fruits require but half as much. 

In fruit canning, the choice of a method is arbitrary, but for vege- 
tables such as beans, corn, spinach and asparagus — protein-containing 
foods carr>dng bacteria which form very resistant spores — the steamer 
method seems by far the best. 

The fresh yoiuig vegetables are thoroughly washed and loosely 
packed in fruit jars. If packed tightly the heat pentrates too slowly 
to accomplish sterilization in the ordinary time allowed. Water 
seasoned with sugar or salt or both is used to fill the cans. 

Vegetables are steamed in three ways: by steam under pressure, by 
steam long appUed, or by steam intermittently applied. The first 



1914I Home Canning 265 

method is not often available in the home, though it is the one most 
commonly used in commercial canneries. Here the temperature is 
raised to 230° or 25o°C., by holding the steam under pressure in a 
pressure cooker. These pressure cookers can be purchased for $10, 
$14 or $25 according to the size, and since they sterilize more surely 
and with less time and gas, their use in the home will undoubtedly 
become more common. 

When steam is long and continuously applied, the cans are placed 
in a closed steamer of the type already referred to. Plenty of water 
is put in and the boiling continued for five to seven hours according 
to the kind and age of the vegetable used, and the size of the jar. 
Quart and two quart jars require a longer time. 

The intermittent application of steam is carried out by applying it 
to the cans one hour on each of three successive days. This gives the 
spore forms a chance to become active or vegetative after the first or 
second steaming so that they can be easily killed. 

There are various kinds of fruit jars on the market, each having its 
good and its bad points. The following statements are based upon 
the writer's experience with commercial jars. If bought by the 
dozen, a pint Mason screw top jar, with cover and rubber, costs 
$.0482; a pint Atlas, with cover and rubber, costs $.0774; and a pint 
Economy, with its lacquered rubber banded lid, costs $.0999. Since 
the average time that a fruit jar is used is five years, one-fifth the 
original cost of the jar is added to the cost of each can of fruit. 

The Mason jar is not easily kept clean, the mouth is small so that 
whole frviits, such as tomatoes, cannot be used in it. It is hard to 
seal perfectly and likewise hard to open after the contents have cooled 
and contracted. The Atlas, a type of the spring-top jar, has a wider 
mouth and is very easily sealed. The glass cover is readily cleaned, 
but, if broken, cannot be replaced as can the Mason and Economy jar 
covers. The Economy jar has the widest mouth and a lid to set on 
and clamp temporarily with the provided spring. The cover is sani- 
tary and rather easily opened when pierced before removing. The 
great disadvantage is the high cost and the trouble and expense of 
buying new lids each year. 



266 The Jounuil of Home Economics [June 

A DISTINGUISHED WORKER IN THE CHEMISTRY OF 
FOOD AND NUTRITION 

C. F. Lang WORTHY 

All students of nutrition and others interested in the composition and 
nutritive value of food owe a debt of gratitude to the veteran worker, 
Joseph Konig, Professor of Hygiene and Food Chemistry at Miinster 
University, and Privy Councilor, who celebrated his seventieth birth- 
day last November and in whose honor a special number of the journal, 
Zeiischrift fiir Untersuchung der Nahrungs- und Genussmittel, has just 
been issued, its contents being made up entirely of articles by Konig's 
former students. For many years K5nig has been an editor of this 
journal which is the organ of the Association of German Food Chem- 
ists. The articles published in it present the results of a wide range 
of investigations. In addition to original work, it contains an ab- 
stract section of great value and is a very important part of the current 
literature of food and nutrition. 

Professor Konig received his Ph.D. in Gottingen in 1867. In 1871 
he was made Director of the Agricultural Experiment Station at Miin- 
ster, in 1892 an Honorary Professor in the University of Miinster, and 
a full Professor in 1899. In 1898 he was made Privy Councilor and in 
1900 a member of the Imperial Council of Health. 

He was a pupil of Liebig and of Wohler and to both of these he owes 
much. One can truly say that his interest in agricultural chemistry 
and in the chemistry of food and nutrition he derives from Liebig, and 
his remarkable accomplishment as an analyst from Wohler. After 
his academic career was completed, he turned his attention to agricul- 
tural chemistry and in 187 1 at Miinster began the splendid investi- 
gations which have added so much to our knowledge of foods and feed- 
ing stuffs. Many of his investigations had to do with methods of 
analysis, such, for instance, as the determination of plant ash, the esti- 
mation of cellulose, and the determination of nitrogen-free extract in 
feeding stuffs and foods, and he has also contributed much to the chem- 
istry of other food constituents. Mention should be made of his studies 
of the nitrogenous constituents of wheat gluten and their relation to 
the baking quality of flour, of his study of fish as food, and of papers on 
butter and fats, on the relation of dextrose to levulose in sweet wines 
and honey, and on ropy bread and ropy milk. Another interesting 
piece of work has to do with the utilization of diets characterized by an 






%»»^ 




1 914] A Distinguished Worker 267 

abundance of protein and fat and by little of each of these constituents. 
Another valuable paper has to do with the most important results 
of scientific studies of human nutrition, and this catalogue might be 
continued. Konig has devoted much attention to water and water 
analysis. He has also published papers of interest to students of do- 
mestic art, for instance, one on the estimation of cellulose in woods and 
in textile fibers. In this and his other work, his pupils have shared. 
All students of nutrition owe a special debt of gratitude to Konig for 
his monumental work on the chemistry of food and nutrition, Chemie 
der menschlichen Nahrungs- mid Genus smittel. The first volume, 
"The Chemical Composition of Human Foods and Condiments," 
which comprises over 1500 pages, presents what is surely the largest 
and most complete compilation of analyses of foods and beverages. 
The clearness with which the material is arranged, the copious foot- 
notes giving special data as well as bibliographical references, and the 
very large amount of material included make this an indispensable 
reference work for the advanced student. The second volume, "Hu- 
man Foods and Condiments; Their Preparation, Composition and 
Characteristics, Together with a Summary of Theories of Nutrition, " 
brings together from a great variety of sources an enormous amount of 
material regarding the nature and uses of food and food accessories. 
The third volume is entitled "The Examination of Foods, Feeding 
Stuffs and Commercial Products." As yet only Part One has ap- 
peared, a volume of nearly 800 pages, which deals with general analyt- 
ical methods. In his Preface to this volume, which was published in 
1 9 10, Konig states that the Second Part is to deal with the details of 
the analysis and inspection of foods, food accessories and commercial 
products. This will round out and complete a truly splendid work 
which brings together more information on food composition, analysis, 
and nutritive value of food than any other single work of its character. 
These volimies have not been translated into English. Nevertheless 
they can be readily consulted by those who have no great knowledge 
of German, because the material is so clearly presented. 

In view of the very valuable contributions on food and nutrition 
made by this famous investigator and teacher,— famous for his splen- 
did studies of analytical methods, his work in agricultural chem- 
istry, the chemistry of food and nutrition and in hygiene — it seems 
fitting that The Journal of Home Economics should publish his 
portrait and join with his many friends and admirers in wishing him 
many more years of successful endeavor. 



EDITORIALS 

Come to Cleveland ! Last year our meeting at Cornell proved to 
us how helpful and inspiring the week of comradeship could be. The 
program of day after ('ay presented our varied interests and revealed 
to us the thread of common purpose which holds us together. We 
"helped everyone his neighbor," and ever^'one said to the other "Be 
of good courage. " Our generous hosts made us welcome in a home of 
unbounded hospitality. We are looking forward to another meeting 
which shall be quite as helpful and enthusiastic as the meeting at 
Cornell. Let us all help to make it so. 

The meeting of the American Home Economics Association will be 
held at Western Reserve University from June 30 to July 3. This 
annual meeting will follow a session of the Institutional Economics 
Section at Lake Placid from June 23 to 27. 

At the Cleveland meeting we shall have as hosts the Department of 
Household Economics of Western Reserve University, over which Miss 
Mary E. Parker presides. Last September, the University opened a 
department of Household Economics in its College for Women, which 
has had a very prosperous year. President Thwing of the University 
will not only give an address of welcome, but will present to us his 
version of some of the essential principles of Household Economics. 
He has recently re-written his book on "The Family," which is a 
valuable contribution to the Household Economics library. 

Miss Parker will introduce us to our environment, giving us an ac- 
count of the year's work in Household Economics in the University. 
On Thursday, July 2, we shall consider extension work in Household 
Economics, certain problems in dietaries, and Household Economics 
in trade and industrial schools. We are hoping to have with us Dr. 
David Snedden, State Commissioner of Education in Massachusetts, 
and to have a report of the Lake Placid meeting. Mrs. Albion Fellows 
Bacon has promised to present to us problems in housing the poor, 
and Miss Miriam Chadsey of Cleveland, has been invited to speak on 
her experience with this side of housekeeping. Mrs. Schuyler F. 
Herron, of Winchester, Massachusetts, is arranging the housekeepers' 
program for Friday. Dr. Benjamin R. Andrews will present a report 
368 



I9I4] 



Editorials 269 



of cooperative buying, and speakers are yet to be secured to present 
other vital subjects— Doing Your Own Work, and The Efficiency Ex- 
pert as Visiting Housekeeper. 

A morning will be given to Domestic Art, the program being ar- 
ranged by Miss Craig of Pullman, Washington. The President's ad- 
dress will be given on the evening of July i . 

Excursions will be arranged, and visits made to centers of interest 
in the city. About ninety members of the Association can be accom- 
modated at the University, and the overflow will be cared for by the 
Young Women's Christian Association. 

Cleveland is a city of big and wholesome interests. Everyone is 
interested in the " Cleveland experiment, " which is bringing about, for 
the various charitable endeavors of the city, cooperation in giving. 
Cleveland has done remarkably fine work in its schools of technical 
arts, and some of its stores have developed fine organizations for in- 
struction in salesmanship. 

Come early. Stay through the session. Expect to meet all your 
friends and have a thoroughly good time. Bring your questions, your 
plans, your inventions, and your enthusiasm. Let us have the best 
meeting yet ! Come to Cleveland ! 

June Meeting of the Administrative Section. The Institution 
Economics Section of the American Home Economics Association will 
meet at Lake Placid Club, Essex County, New York, June 24 to 27, 
Wednesday to Saturday inclusive. This Section of the Association 
appeals to those interested in the larger group problems, and includes 
among its members lunch room and cafeteria managers, dietitians of 
hospitals, college dormitory directors, managers of clubs, settlements, 
tea rooms, etc.; laundry managers; and others whose work lies in 
directing the housekeeping of mstitutions. 

The program will include subjects related to cafeteria management- 
equipment, standard measurements, organization, etc; buying and 
storing of food; unit costs of food in different institutions; problems 
of waste and garbage disposal; special phases of the laundry problem. 
Besides these, the question of training for institutional management 
will be discussed from the viewpoint both of courses offered in colleges, 
and of opportunities in the field for practice. 

The members of this Section deem themselves especially fortunate 
to be invited to meet again at Lake Placid Club, which offers in it- 
self such a splendid study in the organization of an institution. 
Those interested in this Section's meeting, who would like to receive 



270 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

the preliminary program which will soon be issued, together with in- 
formation in regard to rates at the Club, etc., may write for informa- 
tion to the Secretary of the Section, Miss Emma H. Gvmther, Teachers 
College, Columbia University, New York City. 

Bulletins of the United States Public Health Service. There 
is a general impression that our government does very little to protect 
the health of its citizens; that it has more help to offer as to the care of 
pigs than of babies. As a matter of fact, an immense amount has al- 
ready been done. Our health has been protected by our quarantine 
ser\dce, the aid 01 the Government has been sought by the States in 
epidemics of various sorts, and diseases have been carefully studied. 
The results of such investigations have reached the people most often 
through the medium of their own physicians whose training and knowl- 
edge were helped by the work. That our government through its 
various branches, for instance, through the Department of Agriculture, 
really sends out a great deal of information of direct and indirect 
effect on the health of himian beings is well known to the readers of 
this Journal. It is less generally known that the United States Public 
Health Serv-ice under the charge of Surgeon General Blue has begun 
to issue a series of popular publications on health and hygiene designed 
for general distribution. A copy is sent to anyone who requests it and 
the publications are also sold by the Superintenden*^^ of Dociunents at 
a uniform price of 5 cents a copy. The series is designated Public 
Health Reports Supplements. The titles of these publications as they 
appear will be found in our bibliography. This is the same department 
which was known until a year and a half ago as the United States 
Public Health and Marine Hospital Service. It has done research 
work of the most fundamental character. Bulletin 56, Milk in its 
Relation to Public Health is a mine of information on this impor- 
tant topic, and Public Health Reports Supplement 10, The Care of 
the Baby, should be in the hands of every mother. 

Syllabus of Home Economics. We wish to call attention to the 
advertisement, on the last cover page, and the review on page 301, 
of the revised edition of the " Syllabus of Home Economics, " the 
first Richards Memorial Fund publication. It is very gratifying to 
state that the entire first edition was sold before January i, 1914. 



HOUSEKEEPERS' DEPARTMENT 

The editors of the Jottrnal earnestly request assistance from the readers of this 
new department. They especially desire suggestions for timely topics on which 
information should be gathered; data either given directly or by reference to books 
and articles; and records of personal observation. 

The following report of a cocjperative buying club in a town of 22,000 inhabit- 
ants is especially interesting for the simplicity of the method which has worked 
efficiently for nearly two years. Note that although the amount of food distrib- 
uted was large, no stock was raised, no store or fixtures acquired, no salaries paid 
and there was no dealing with non-members, also that the price paid by members 
for the food was the wholesale price plus cost of distribution. 

Having already secured the curb market and a sealer of weights and measures, 
these public-spirited women will doubtless continue until they have established the 
third object for which they organized — the permanent market house and year- 
round market. Our readers will be kept informed of the later history of this club. 

THE WOMAN'S MARKET CLUB OF GREENSBURG, 
PENNSYLVANIA 

Martha B. Steckel 

On August 2, 191 2, some public spirited women met for the pur- 
pose of effecting means to reduce the high cost of living. Local 
conditions and needs were discussed, a temporary organization was 
effected, and a few days later, August 6, the club was permanently 
organized with a simple constitution and by-laws which stated that 
"The purpose of this club shall be to secure the best food products at 
the most reasonable prices; to establish and maintain a successful curb 
market, and to endeavor to secure and establish a permanent market 
house and year-round market." 

Before the end of the first year there was a membership of 573 
which in fees of 25 cents each gave the club a bank account of $143.25. 
The first year a ctirb market was maintained in one section of the town 
two mornings a week, the second year there were two curb markets 
three mornings a week. From the first, the club put forth every 
effort to have the commissioners appoint a sealer of weights and 
measures, but it was not until after the state constitutional amend- 
ment was passed making the appointment compulsory that this 

271 



2^2 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

appointment was made for the county. There have been car-load 
purchases of both potatoes and apples. Among other foods bought 
are cantaloupes, cranberries, celery, nuts of all kinds, sweet potatoes, 
butter, lard, Georgia cane syrup, oysters, fish, oranges, lemons and 
grape fruit. Our last addition has been tea, coffee and cocoa. 

Country rendered lard in 50 pound cans was 13I cents per pound 
the past winter. When butter was selling at 45 cents per pound the 
club price for the highest grade creamery butter was 32 cents. We 
now buy 450 pounds of butter daily. 

All regular and special buying is done through committees. Four 
standing committees on fish, oysters, fruit and butter have been do- 
ing duty throughout the winter season. It is the duty of each com- 
mittee to seek out the best markets, to take and place all orders, to 
fix all prices by adding transportation to cost, to distribute goods at 
the time appointed, to pay all bills and make reports from time to 
time when called upon at the regular meetings which take place twice 
a month. As all officers and committees serve without compensation, 
every effort is made to spare them unnecessary labor and annoyance. 
The rej^^ular time for placing orders is immediately after club meetings, 
and not indiscriminately by telephone. Quotations are read in the 
meetings and arrangements are made to make any special purchase 
at any time there seems to be a demand. 

When distribution is made, the committees are on duty from 8 to 
9.30 every morning and any orders remaining uncalled for may be 
disposed of at that time. 

For instance, when a car-load order is taken on potatoes, quota- 
tions include cost of sacking to facilitate handling, freight, and drayage. 
Payment must then be made when the order is placed, and a dupli- 
cate of the receipted order goes to the local Transfer Company which 
attends to the delivery when the car arrives. 

The expenses of the club are ver>' light, the monthly average having 
been $6.69. Through the courtesy of the Board of Trade and the 
Rink Company, the Market Club has always been provided with a 
place of meeting without expense other than necessary janitor service. 
Instead of incurring the expense of maintaining a regular distribu- 
ting station, the use of a centrally located store room is secured at such 
times as are necessary. At present a combined candy store and 
lunch room is used every Friday morning from 8 to 9.30 for a con- 
sideration of $1.00. 



1914) Housekeepers^ Department 273 

Butter and either fish or oysters are distributed every week and 
fruit every other week. When fish is distributed — frequently three 
or four kinds — a man is employed to sort, weigh and wrap according to 
the order list. Other expenses include stationery, wrapping paper, 
newspaper announcements and subscriptions to the Packer, both the 
New York and the Cincinnati editions. 

Market Club Recipes 

Home Made Vinegar. To 3 gallons of water, add 3 pounds dark 
brown sugar. Let come to the boiling point, cool and put into a wide 
mouthed jar. When quite cool put into the jar a large slice of toast 
with two cakes of Fleischman's yeast spread on one side. Turn 
spread side down on liquor. Cover tight. When done, the bread will 
be in the bottom of the jar. Strain and use. 

Home Made Baking Powder. Mix and sift together, i pound cream 
of tartar, ^ pound of corn starch, and ^ pound baking soda. Sift 
several times. Put into tin cans. After two weeks (during which 
time it is undergoing the sweating process), sift again several times. 
It is ready for use immediately after the first mixing. 

THE NEW ENGLAND COOPERATIVE SOCIETY 

A society has been incorporated under the above title on the plan 
of the well-known English Rochdale System. As a first step they 
have taken over four cooperative markets that were established some 
time ago in Boston. Authorized capital stock is stated as, preferred 
$175,000, common $25,000. According to their statement, "At 
present the producers receive 35 per cent of the retail price of food 
products in this country, the railroads seven per cent, while jobbers, 
commission men, wholesalers and retailers divide the other 58 per 
cent." 

They propose to reduce the cost of living by purchasing direct from 
producers in wholesale quantities, eliminating middlemen's profits, 
selling strictly for cash at one small profit above cost of production 
and distribution, cutting out the losses and needless expenses of 
credit business, dividing net profits among members in proportion 
to their purchases. 

This movement is still too new for us to be able to report anything 
more definite as to its prospects. The names of the promoters are 
those of men well and widely known in their community. 



274 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

THE MONTCLAIR COOPERATIVE SOCIETY 

This Society has held its second annual meeting and reports a 
trade of $30,000 in the closing quarter of the year at an expense of 
14 per cent including delivery. The store seems to be making a real 
contribution to the problem in its novel plan to avoid needless de- 
Uvery by giving a bonus or rebate on purchases taken home by the 
buyer. 

The Society did not pay dividends on stock because of heavy losses 
the first of the year from incompetent management; they have not 
found any "shor^ cut through a bed of roses" but the interest and 
enthusiasm of members remain unabated as shown by the large 
attendance at the annual meeting. They feel that they have found 
the solution of the problems of pure food and the high cost of living, 

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT IN THE HOME 
Mildred N. Ball 

Can the principles of ordinary business management be success- 
fully applied to the finances of the home? Any satisfactory answer 
to this question must come from the housekeepers themselves, and not 
from the theorists. But how many practical housekeepers have se- 
riously and intelligently tried business methods in handling household 
money? 

Will women undertake this practical business side of home-making 
and discover what can and what cannot be accomplished? Or will it 
all finally have to be worked out by men? The home, like any other 
business organization, must stand on a firm financial foundation if it 
is to be operated successfully. Man has long considered the pro\-ision 
of a family income his absolute duty when he marries. Woman should 
just as conscientiously feel it her duty to wisely and economically ad- 
minister this income. To do this she must evolve some systematic 
plan of handling the money. 

Some housekeepers do this in a simple way by allowing definite 
amounts for household expenses, dress, miscellaneous expenses, etc. It 
is easier to make this allowance with accuracy if these broad headings 
are subdivided and a simple budget arranged. 

A convenient classification for family expenditures is as follows: 
shelter, food, equipment, operation, clothing, incidentals and advance- 



1914] Housekeepers^ Department 275 

ment. By shelter is meant the house rent or interest on the house 
that is unpaid for. By equipment is meant the furniture, fixtures and 
apparatus required in the home. Operation includes heat, light and 
service. Incidentals provides a column for those miscellaneous ex- 
penses which belong under none of the other heads. Advancement 
stands for all that the word means and under it we place educational 
expenses, books, magazines, lectures, travel, charities, church expenses, 
etc. 

For those who object to the filing system, a simple method of keep- 
ing accounts is to obtain a large account book, use two pages which 
face each other and rule on the right side of the first page four columns 
for: food, equipment, operation and shelter. Subdivide the food col- 
umn into three — groceries, meat and dairy. On the opposite page rule 
three columns for clothing, incidentals and advancement. Clothing 
may be subdivided into a column for each member of the family. 

The first item in the food account each month is inventory — that is, 
an inventory of food supplies on hand at the first of the month. 

At the end of each quarter and half year a comparison of the actual 
expenses and the allowance according to the budget should be made so 
that one may know if she is living in accordance with the allowance 
planned. In order to have budget making sufficiently accurate to be 
valuable, one needs carefully kept accounts of the previous year for 
comparison. A careful study of the accounts assists in making the 
next year's budget. If too much or too little has been allowed, or if 
circumstances call for closer economy, or if income permits larger 
expenditures, budget and accounts show just where the change can 
easily be made. 

Any housekeeper who has not tried keeping a budget and accounts 
will be delighted at the feeling of security it gives. There is so much 
less worry and anxiety as the expensive seasons of spring and fall ap- 
proach, when summer and winter clothing for the family must be pur- 
chased, if one knows that a certain amount has been set aside for that 
expense and that in buying up to that limit the grocery and meat bills 
are not threatened. 

Having once used a budget and kept systematic accounts, no house- 
keeper will ever think them too much trouble. The joy of feeling that 
she is controlling the finances of the household and that they are not 
controlling her is a sufficient reward for any woman for all the time and 
effort expended. 



2^6 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

THE FAMILY BUDGET i 

The comparison of many budgets, in such studies as those of the 
United States Biureau of Labor^ and the volumes of Chapin,^ and Ellen 
H. Richards* gives information and suggestion concerning standards 
and appropriate expenditures for the essential items of shelter, food, 
clothing, health protection, and sundries. Thus : 

An expenditure of from $600 to $700 a year provides the typical 
family of two adults and not more than three children only inadequate 
shelter and clothing and a mere approach to adequate nutrition; they 
must depend upon, public aid for health protection and recreation. 

From $800 to $900 a year, adequate in some European countries, is 
scarcely so in the United States. 

A family budget of from $900 to $1000 a year will provide physical 
necessities in New York City, including fair shelter and clothing, some- 
thing for health protection and recreation, and food that is adequate, 
when measured by the accepted minimvma of 23 cents a day for each 
adult. 

At $1 TOO a year savings begin to be appreciable, the cost of women's 
clothing begins to exceed that of men, and, in the country, comforts 
become possible. 

A $2000 budget has been ideally divided into 25 per cent for food, 
20 per cent each for rent and clothing, 15 per cent for operating ex- 
penses, and 20 per cent for " the higher life. " 

In budgets of from $2000 to $4000 a year, 25 per cent is assigned for 
food, 20 per cent for rent, 15 per cent each for clothing and operating 
expenses, and 25 per cent for "the higher life. " 

An expenditure of S4000 a year shows operating expenses of 1 7 per 
cent and clothing of 12 per cent. 

As incomes increase, the proportion spent for shelter remains con- 
stant, food decreases, clothing increases, and furnishing and sun- 
dries increase rapidly, all according to the general laws of Engel, some- 
what modified for the United States. 

1 Reprinted from Household Management. Mary L. Furst, Teachers College 
Bui., No. 8. 

* Retail Prices (and Budgets). U. S. Dept. Com. and Labor, Bur. Labor Buls. 
105, pt. I, 1912; 106, pt. I, 1912; 108, 1912; U. S. Dept. Labor, Bur. Labor Buls. 
no, 1913; 125, 1913; 132, 1913; 136, 1913. 

' The Standard of Living among Workingmen's Families in New York. Chapin. 
Charities Publication Committee, New York, 1909. 

* The Cost of Living as Modified by Sanitary Service. Ellen H. Richards. J. 
Wiley and Sons, New York, 1899. 



19 14] Housekeepers^ Department I'j'j 

The maintenance of standards, however, depends less upon income 
than upon a wise expenditure. Inadequate food, for example, is often 
due largely to lack of wisdom in selection and purchasing. Savmg, on 
the other hand, denotes self-control, imagination, resourcefulness, and 
character, both in individuals and in nations. 

The ideal standard is influenced by environment, imitation, tradi- 
tion, habit, and by other considerations, not only of utility and of cus- 
tom, but of emulation and display in " conspicuous consumption " and 
"conspicuous waste." 

Both standards and expenditures may be tested by estimates of 
adequacy, comfort, and richness of life. 

Household Accounts and Division of Income^ 

There is no hope for any plan for keeping household accounts that 
requires a large amount of time. Here is one that calls for fifteen 
minutes a week. It claims to have been put to the test of use, and 
with perfect success. It also suggests that division of the income which 
is more and more coming into general use. 

TABLE A 
Weekly income, weekly divided into three hank accounts 
I 2 3 

Man's personal account. Woman's personal account. FamQy account in the 

name of both. 
TABLE B 

Weekly amount put in each division 

123 

Equal to the woman's. Equal to the man's. The remainder. 

Illustration I. Supposed income — ^25. 00 

123 

$3.00 $3.00 $19.00 

Illustration II 

123 

$5.00 $5.00 $15-00 

TABLE C 
Uses 

1. Clothes, carfare, charity, amusements, society dues, ordinary dentist and 
doctor bills, etc. 

2. In general, the same. Exception, doctor's bills in maternity. 

3. No money is spent from this account without mutual consent. 

First, a stated weekly sum is given the wife for food expenses. On $5 she can 
provide for them both, and also the friend who drops in, and pay for other grocery 
items, matches, soap and kerosene. 

* Philadelphia Sunday North American, January 19, 19 13. 



278 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

She also is the arbiter of other household expenses, under a stated sum. Articles 
costing more than this should be agreed upon mutually. 

After these expenses and the rent, laundry, gas and coal are paid for, the re- 
mainder constitutes the mutual savings, belonging equally to both. 

When the children come, another stated sum is set aside for their clothes, etc. 
Thus the woman has two account books to keep — "food" and "children." They 
may be simply kept, without detail. The use of different purses for different 
accounts, "food," "children," "personal," is really no trouble, and wholly sim- 
plifies the account keeping. 

When the man or the woman has a special personal expense the private account 
cannot afford, but the mutual account (No. 3) can afford, the one may draw the 
needed sum, provided at the same time a like amount is drawn and deposited in 
the private account of the other. 

Should the wife earn any money, as the simplest way of equal division also on 
her part, it would be deposited in account No. .3. 

POINTS IN EFFICIENCY' 
Christine Frederick 

In order to standardize any task we must first separate it into its 
component elements. For instance, in cleaning take the sweeping, 
dusting, and mopping. How are these done in the average home? 
One room is swept, dusted and mopped, and these processes repeated 
afterward in each room. In any task requiring a bodily adjustment 
you must keep that adjustment as long as possible in order to acquire 
speed. Every time you change your adjustment from sweeping to 
dusting you lose time; and you lose time whenever you pick up and lay 
down a broom, a duster, or a pail. The efficiency method then, 
where there are a number of processes to be repeated in several rooms, 
is to do the one process as long as possible. 

To prove this in figures, three rooms averaging 10 by 12 in size 
were cleaned in respectively 13, 15 and 16 minutes, doing the various 
processes in each room separately. These same rooms were cleaned, 
doing each process straight through, in 11, 12 and 13 minutes, with a 
total of 36 as against 44, or a gain of 8 minutes. In the first place 
there was a handling and picking up of the broom and other utensils 
three times; in the second place, once. 

It is difiScult to say just how dish-washing can be standardized, but 
it can be separated into its elements, which include stacking, sorting, 
washing, drying, and laying away. The wiping usually takes too long, 

' Extracts from an address given at the Sixth Annual Meeting of the American 
Home Economics Association, Ithaca, 1913. 



1914I Housekeepers^ Department 279 

but a drainer will minimize the time. In order to lessen the steps 
taken to lay away the dishes, you may have shelves conveniently 
placed. 

Every cooking task on final analysis can be divided into three dis- 
tinct parts — the grouping of materials and utensils for the work, the 
preparation of the food, the clearing away. 

From various experiments done over and again we find that the 
variables on which we can increase our efficiency are in the first and 
last groups. It is simply impossible to beat an egg in less than a 
certain given time with a given egg beater or particular device, but, 
if you can increase your efficiency in your grouping and laying away 
your tools, you have increased the total efficiency of making your 
sponge cake. 

We have found the causes of inefficiency in a great many house- 
hold tasks to be: lack of needful utensils; wasted time running around 
for utensils; wasted eflfort and time in bringing the various ingredients; 
stopping in the middle of a task to do something entirely unrelated to 
it; loss of time due to insufficient supplies on hand; and incorrect 
position or height of stool or other working surface. An examination 
of 75 sinks, both in apartments and private homes, showed that 
they averaged from 27 to 32 inches in height, and 20 girls were tested 
with an adjustable table, raising and lowering the dish pan until the 
height was found which required the least effort in doing their work. 
There seemed to be a distinct ratio between the height of the person 
and the height of the working surface. For a person 4 feet 10 inches 
tall the table should be 27 inches high, with an increase of about 2 
inches on the table for 4 inches on the person. 

We all know that the small kitchen is the efficient one, but there 
is also a scientific reason for the arrangement of equipment in the 
kitchen. When analyzed, all kitchen work is resolved into two 
distinct processes, preparing food and clearing it away. In prepar- 
ing food the storage is our first piece of equipment, the table the sec- 
ond piece, the stove the third; and then the food is taken to the din- 
ing room. All of these steps are included in the first preparing group. 
The clearing away process involves the use of the sink, the pantry 
and the shelves. The parts of these processes should be kept separate, 
and the storage, table, stove, dining room, sink and shelves should 
be so arranged as to avoid unnecessary retracing of steps. That which 
counts most is not the skill with which any one particular task is done, 
but the skill with which that task is done in relation to other tasks. 



28o The Journal of Home Economics [June 

The other object of our standardizing task is to find the approxi- 
mate average time it takes to do the tasks that come into our daily 
routine. We must get the work down to a schedule if we are going 
to have time to do anything else. You must work out for yourself 
schedules which vary, of course, with varying conditions. Every 
well-planned schedule has a definite rest period. It is not efiiciency 
to work until you drop; many of our housekeepers see only the tread 
mill of work, and think that the more work they do the more efficient 
they are. 

In nmning the home there are many different kinds of data and 
records; there are the gas receipts, the rent bills and milk bills, and it 
is always a question of where to turn for this address, or this bill, 
etc. A file for all these is most satisfactory because it is a unit idea, 
and it is capable of infinite expansion. You can make special head- 
ings for it according to your special needs. 

We have a feeling that the servant problem is vital; it is, but not 
so vital as the problem of the yoimg married woman who perhaps is 
a trained worker in some other line, but does not know the first princi- 
ples of home making and housekeeping, and has no money for a 
servant. 

Our greatest enemy is the woman with the career. When she is a 
housekeeper, she feels that she is weighted down; or she has an auto- 
matic, dull sort of duty toward housework in general. The intelli- 
gent attitude of mind is that home making is not drudgery; that 
home making is a big business, and that it is just as interest- 
ing and just as stimulating to make a splendid cake on a schedule 
as it is to pound a typewriter all day for nine dollars a week; that 
home making is just as stimulating and just as cultural as work in 
art or in any of the fields in which women are running with eager feet 
because it expresses their wonderful individuality. Let such a woman 
come into the home and express her art through its decoration, its 
furnishings, and its color schemes; or instead of going into a narrow 
field of dietetics, let her come into her home and there plan balanced 
menus and study nutrition values for her own family. Let her find 
it just as interesting to care for her own children as it is to go down 
on the east side and take care of Annie Bolowski. 

We have talked very much about schedules and standardizing 
work, and about efficient workers, but this is not the whole result of 
efficiency. The object of your work is not so many cakes, not so 
much information on this line or that, not so much testing, but it 
is the home and the happiness and success of that home. 



1914] Housekeepers^ Department 281 

TREATMENT OF HOUSEHOLD WASTE 

H. T. VULTE 

Waste or refuse may be defined as material of little intrinsic value 
for which we have no further use. This is a sad confession of a lack of 
eflSciency along economic lines which usually leads to results that are 
highly deleterious and dangerous to health. There is no more serious 
problem now before us than the economic and sanitary disposal of this 
material. 

It is best to classify waste materials under liquid and solid, and to 
deal separately with each class and its various subdivisions. Liquid 
waste containing more or less putrescible matter is now generally classi- 
fied as sewage. As a rule sewage is collected by a system of piping and 
delivered at some central point where it is cast loose in a stream or 
body of water to plague the existence of helpless individuals in a more 
or less remote locality. 

At times the dwellers in isolated regions carefully conduct the ma- 
terial into a specially constructed underground pit or cesspool whence it 
flows by gravity or is drawn into the water supply. Sanitary sewage 
disposal should be compulsory in every community having a water 
supply. 

For isolated localities, accessible cesspools built of impervious ma- 
terials can be provided and after the putrefying period has passed, the 
liquid product may be conducted through a series of drain pipes to 
irrigate and fertilize growing crops. 

The most serious difficulty experienced with waste and drain pipes 
is due to fatty matter cooling and depositing on the walls. Various 
devices known as grease traps may be used to cool and solidify the 
fats, but the simple precaution of cooling all fatty liquid, and removing 
the cake or crust of congealed fats before pouring away the liquid, 
would obviate any such stoppage and furnish clean, pure, fatty matter 
for sale or domestic use. 

Solid waste is best divided into putrescible and non-putrescible mat- 
ter. The former includes inedible trimmings of fruits, vegetables and 
other foods and various articles of food no longer desired in the house- 
hold. If this can be kept in clean, cool receptacles and frequently col- 
lected, it serves as an excellent food for animals. In any case, by dry- 
ing to a moisture content of 25 per cent or less, all immediate danger 
of change will pass. Perhaps it is best to dry the material in small 



232 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

quantities by the surplus heat of the cook stove or range and then burn 
it when most convenient. 

The non-putrescible matter consists of combustible material such as 
paper, straw and the like and non-combustible substances, such as 
ashes, broken glass and crockery, metals and tin cans. Newspaper 
and wrapping paper may be sold. Ashes, broken glass and clean cans 
are valuable filling material in most communities and have been suc- 
cessfully used for many years in raising the level of low lands. Metals 
of all kinds are salable as junk. It is little short of criminal to mix 
these waste materials as advocated by some authorities and prac- 
ticed in many communities. 

It may be said that dwellers in city apartments cannot, with their 
limited space, afford the necessary storage room for keeping waste 
materials separated. There is no reason, however, why the owner or 
manager of such apartment building should not provide the necessary 
space in the basement and put its management in charge of some com- 
petent person. This would add very little to the present duties of the 
janitor and he would be paid by the disposal of such material as is 
salable. The management might even provide a small cremating 
furnace for combustible matter. 

Some of our largest cities strictly enforce ordinances applying to the 
collection of refuse materials but signally fail in their proper and 
economic disposal; while others, too few in number, actually make the 
collection and disposal self-supporting. After all it is a question which 
directly affects the tax-payer. For lack of system, he pays dearly; 
with common sense planning and administration, the draft on his in- 
come would be greatly reduced. 

It must be borne in mind that many of our important industries 
were in a precarious condition years ago on account of their utter in- 
difference as to the so-called waste products. As a result of study and 
careful planning and operation, these wastes have been converted into 
useful merchantable forms and have added to the profits of the whole 
operation, while greatly improving the sanitary conditions. 

Is it too much to hope that equally beneficial results may be ob- 
tained from educating the householder along these lines? 



1 9 14] Housekeepers^ Department 283 

OVEN TEMPERATURES' 

The greatest claim that can be made for the subject of cookery 
is that we are trying to approach it scientifically. This means the 
standardization of processes formerly evolved by long experience and 
much wasteful experimentation, and accomplished only through the 
sacrifice of much good food material. The question with which teach- 
ers of cookery are confronted today is: how cai the expert best pass 
along her information in trying to instruct the person who must 
become proficient in a comparatively short space of time? 

The need for standardization of cookery temperatures is evident 
from the variations in the rules of experts, the vagueness of directions 
in the best cook books in everyday use, and the evident lack of agree- 
ment on the meaning of the terms "slow," "mediimi," "hot," as applied 
to oven temperatures. 

The following Directions for Cooking were gleaned from some of the 
leading cook books in daily use: "Bake until thoroughly done." 
"Bake until brown and crisp on the surface." "Roast in a hotter 
oven than for fowl." "Bake one hour or more." "Bake imtil done, 
the time depending upon the thickness." 

In lieu of a thermometer the indicators generally used are sensation, 
counting, color changes in various kinds of paper, etc. The inade- 
quacy of these methods was proved by tests made in the laboratory. 

A number of students combining the first and second methods by 
holding the hand in the oven, showed a range of from 20 to 100 covmts 
in an oven at a temperature of 250° F. and 5 to 30 counts at 450° F. 

Using the third method, the recorded temperatures at which a 
certain paper would brown varied from 376° to 463° F. When cakes 
were baked in a "moderate" oven a thermometer showed that the 
girls who had depended only upon the "sensation indicator" were 
using temperatures from 145° to 420° F. 

A careful study of temperatures which yielded the best results with 
certain recipes gave the following classification: slow, 250° to 350° F., 
custards, meringues; moderate, 350° to 400° F., bread, gingerbread, 
plain cake, cookies; hot or "quick," 400° to 450° F., Parker House 
rolls, popovers; very hot, 450° to 550° F., biscuit, pastr>'. The 
best temperature for sponge cake and angel food was between slow 
and moderate, and for baking powder biscuit, between hot and very 
hot. 

' Compiled from Standardizing Oven Temperatures. May B. Van Arsdale, 
Teachers College Bui., Ser. 5, No. 8. 



284 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

The objection will be raised that the use of a thermometer in 
cookery, is not practical for the housewife, but it is evident that 
her own temperature sensations are not to be relied upon. Even 
the oven-door thermometer, although it does not record the exact 
oven temperature, may be sufficient after she has experimented to 
find the figure for the best results. 

Regarding the inexperienced housewife it can truly be said that with 
an accurate thermometer her results would undoubtedly be more 
uniformly good; and we believe that the recipe books of the future 
should not read merely "bake until done" in a "moderate oven" 
"according to judgment," but will also state how long and at what 
temperature, so that in the hands of even the inexperienced these 
recipes will yield not occasionally good, but uniformly good results 
without the discouragement of many failures, the sacrifice of much 
time and the waste of good material. Thus the scientific treatment 
of the subject added to our traditional knowledge should tend to 
evolve a higher type of cookery than we have had in the past. 

JELLY MAKING 

The discouraged housewife at the end of a hot summer day wonders 
why her jelly did not "jell, " why it is soft, or gummy, or limipy . Or, 
if successful one day, she probably fails to record the exact time, 
amounts of materials, etc., that will insure uniform results for the fu- 
ture. She may not know that jelly "jells" because of the presence of 
a substance called pectin, that it is often absent in raw fruit but present 
after boiling; that a certain amount of it can utilize only a certain 
amount of sugar, and that if increased beyond that definite amount, 
continued cooking will produce only a gummy mass; or that too little 
or too much boiling after sugar is added to the juice may cause the 
sugar to crystallize. 

She may easily make her own test for pectin by adding to the fruit 
juice an equal volume of grain alcohol. A gelatinous mass shows the 
presence of pectin. She may be sure of uniform success if she makes 
use of facts obtained in laboratory experiments such as were con- 
ducted and reported by Miss Goldthwaite of the University of Illi- 
nois. Extracts from her report' are here given. 

To very juicy fruit, such as raspberries, currants, etc., add i cupful 
of water to 4 or 5 cupfuls of fruit and allow to cook slowly in an enam- 

'Principles of Jelly Making. N. E. Goldthwaite, University of Illinois Bui., IX, 
1912, No. 36. 



1914] Housekeepers^ Department 285 

elled kettle. When simmering, crush the fruit and when well cooked 
transfer to cheesecloth and allow to drain, but do not squeeze. One 
or two more extractions may be made by returning pulp to kettle, ad- 
ding water, and boiling, the number of extractions depending upon the 
pectin present. Proceed in the same way with less juicy fruits, such 
as apple, quince, etc., but cover with water before cooking. The first 
extraction should be treated by itself. The correct proportion of 
juice to sugar varies from |: i to 1:1 by volume. Currants and par- 
tially ripened grapes demand 1:1, while f : i is better for raspberries, 
blackberries, apples, cranberries, etc. The condition of the fruit may 
necessitate a change in these proportions. When in doubt it is better 
to err on the side of too little rather than too much unless a soft jelly 
is desired. 

If the second and third extractions are boiled down until they show 
about the same proportion of pectin as the first extraction contained 
and then treated in the same way, there is no need for any second class 
jelly. 

For all extractions, boil the juice and skim before adding the sugar 
(preferably hot), and continue to boil about the same length of time 
afterward. Jelly should be made from the extractions as quickly as 
possible. The juices mentioned before as requiring the greater pro- 
portion of sugar need to be boiled only from eight to ten minutes; the 
others from twenty to thirty minutes. Long simmering of pectin in 
acid changes it to substances which have no jelly-making power. 

The best test, and one which does not cause delay, in determining 
when the jelly has boiled sufficiently is to see whether the boiling mass 
breaks off or sheets off as a portion drops from the stirring spoon. 

Other conclusions were reached, such as the following : Jellies from 
but slightly acid fruits may be made by adding a teaspoonful of acid 
powder (citric or tartaric) to a quart of the juice, but this process is not 
recommended except in the case of sweet apple or quince juices. The 
white inner skins of oranges and of lemons are prolific sources of pectin, 
hence genuine jellies from these fruits may be made. The pectin from 
these skins may also be used for strengthening other fruit juices. 
Apple-juice may be made a basis for other fruit-jellies. Beet-sugar 
and cane-sugar may be used interchangeably in jelly-making. 

Good jellies cannot be made from all juices by rule o ' thumb. Jelly- 
making as practiced in the home is an art — an art founded on scien- 
tific principles. It consists in so controlling conditions by means of 
sugar (and acid), and by boiling, as to cause the pectin to "set" in a 
continuous mass throughout the volume allotted to it. 



286 



The Jaurnal of Home Economics 



[June 



THE FEEDING OF YOUNG CHILDREN' 

(Continued from the April Journal, pp. 179-181) 





Child 4-8 years old 




Breakfast: 


Oatmeal Mush 


15 oz. dry cereal 




Top Milk 


4 oz. 




Stewed Prunes 


4 or 5 




Toast 


I slice 




Milk to drink 


6 oz. 


Dinner: 


Pea Soup 


I cup 




Croutons 


I slice bread 




BoUed Onions 


2 small 




Baked Potato 


1 large 




Molasses Cookies 


2 


Supper: 


Cream Toast 


2 slices bread 




Rice Pudding with 






Milk and Sugar 


I cup 




Milk to drink 


5 oz. 





Nutritive value and cost 






UATEKIAL 


WEIGHT 


FBOTEIN 


FUEL VALUE 


COST 


Rolled oats 


ounces 

1-3 
1-3 
34.4 (iqt.) 
30 
1.0 
4.0 
1.0 

5-0 
1.0 
1.0 
o-S 


grams 
6.1 
0.7 
32.2 
10. 5 
6.9 
2.0 
6.9 

2-5 

2.0 

2-3 
O.I 


calories 

150 
100 

675 

300 

100 

S6 

"5 
96 
100 
100 
100 


% 

0.0045 
O.OIOO 


Primes 


MUk 


0.0900 
0.0120 
0.0056 
0.0120 
. 0046 
. 0078 
0.0040 
0.0050 


Bread 

P.eas— split 

Onions 

Sugar 


Potato 


Cookies 


Rice 

Butter 










654 


1892 


0-IS45 



Substitutes or additions 

For Rolled Oats: Other cereals, as suggested on page 181 of the April Journal. 

For Onions and Peas: Strained dried beans; other vegetables carefully cooked; 
fresh lettuce. 

For Primes: Fresh ripe apples, baked bananas, other mild fruits well cooked. 

For Rice Pudding: Junkets, custards, blanc manges, bread puddings, and other 
very simple desserts. 

For Cookies: Gingerbread, sponge cake, or very plain cookies. 

1 Extracts from The Feeding of Young Children. Mary Swartz Rose, Teach- 
ers College Bulletin, Ser. 2, No. 10. The prices have been revised to date. 



I9I4] 



Housekeepers' Department 



287 



Child 8-12 years old 



Breakfast : 


Oatmeal Mush 


I J oz. dry cereal 




Top Milk 


6 oz. 




Stewed Prunes 


6 or 7 




Toast 


2 slices 




Milk to drink 


6 oz. 


Luncheon 


Pea Soup 


I cup 




Boiled Onions 


2 small 




Baked Potato 


I large 




Bread and Butter 


2 slices bread 




Molasses Cookies 


3 cookies 


Dinner: 


Baked Haddock 


Small serving 




Creamed hashed potato 


}cup 




Spinach 


\ cup 




Bread and Butter 


2 slices 




Rice Pudding — milk 






and sugar 


I cup 



Nutritive value and cost 



Rolled oats 

Prunes 

Milk 

Bread 

Butter 

Peas — split . 

Onions 

Sugar 

Potatoes. . . 
Cookies . . . . 

Rice 

Haddock . . . 
Spinach . . . . 



ounces 

1-5 
2.0 

34-4 
6.0 
1 .0 
1 .0 
4.0 
1.0 
8.0 
1-5 
i-S 
2.0 
2.0 



PROTEIN 



grams 
6.1 

I.O 

32.2 

156 

7.0 
2.0 

4.0 
30 
3-4 
lO-S 
1.2 



86.4 



7CEL VAIUE 



calories 

ISO 
ISO 

67s 
440 

200 
100 

56 

IIS 
152 
150 
150 
68 
14 



2420 



COST 



$ 

0.0060 
0.0150 
0.0900 

o . 0246 
0.0220 
0.0056 
0.0120 
0.0036 
0.0122 
0.0060 

0.007s 
0.0050 
0.0015 



0.2II0 



Substitutes or additions 

For Rolled Oats: Other cereals thoroughly cooked. 

For Haddock: Rare beefsteak, roast beef or mutton chops; other fish, especially 
white varieties. 

For Prunes: Any mild ripe fruit uncooked or cooked. 
For Onions: String beans, stewed celery, beets, sqxiash. 
For Peas or Spinach: Turnips or cauliflower. 



288 



The Journal of Home Economics 



[June 



Suggestive Dietary for Child Who Will Not Drink Milk 





Age 5 years 






(r Quart of milk concealed in the m6nu.) 


Breakfast: 


Oatmeal 


\ cup cereal cooked in i cup 


7.00 a.m. 




milk 




Creamy egg on Toast 


I egg yolk with \ slice bread and 
\ cup milk 




Cocoa 


I tsp. cocoa and \ cup milk 


10.00 a.m. 


Zwiebach and Cream 


I piece zwiebach and i tbsp. cream 


1.30 p.m. 


Spinach Soup 


4 07.. 




Baked Potato with cream 


I potato and 2 tbsp. cream 




Bread and Butter 


I slice 




Caramel Junket 


I J cup 


5.30 p.m. 


Rice and Prunes 


2 tbsp. rice cooked in 5 cup milk 
and 5 primes 




Zwiebach 


I slice 



Nutritive value and cost 



MATEKIAL 


WEIGHT 


PROTEIN 


FUEL VALUE 


COST 


Oatmeal 


ounces 
0.9 

O.S 
0.1 
0.8 
0.7 

4-2 

4.0 

I.O 

1-3 

34.2 

0.4 

0.2 


grams 
4.2 
2.0 

O-S 

2-3 

1.8 

3 9 

2.0 

23 

0.7 

32.2 


calories 
100 

47 

II 
100 

50 
100 

75 
100 
100 

675 
40 

33 


$ 

. 0030 
0.0150 
0.0025 

O.OI4S 
0.0027 
0162 


Ekc volk 


Cocoa 


Zwiebach 


Toast 


Spinach soup 


Potato 




Rice 


0.0050 


Prunes 


Milk 


. 0900 
0.0013 
0.0036 


Sugar 


Butter 








Si-9 


1431 


0.1698 



BOILED MILK 

Certain milk standards have been agreed upon by the National Com- 
mission on Milk Standards^ and the International Milk Dealers As- 
sociation. Their efforts to raise the standards of milk and to get 
individual communities to require those standards are certainly to be 

HJ. S. Public Health Reports, 28, 1913, no. 34, pp. 1733-1756. 



1 9 14] Housekeepers^ Department 289 

commended and yet their chief measure of safety, pasteurization, is at 
present a debatable question. 

There is little doubt that keeping milk at 60° to 65°C. for twenty to 
thirty minutes destroys all pathological bacteria, but those which 
cause putrefaction remain. These cause pasteurized milk to decom- 
pose, a change which has been noticed by the housewife who has dis- 
covered the bad odor of milk which is not sour but has not been kept 
on ice after pasteurization. Experimenters have not agreed as to 
whether any lactic ferments may remain or as to whether the gentle 
heating causes a change from a substance which clots to one which 
putrefies. 

It would seem wiser to boil the milk, but this suggestion has met 
with much opposition by those who claim that boiling destroys immu- 
nizing substances, and substances helpful to digestion, and that boiled 
milk causes constipation. The first claim is absurd, for if the cow's milk 
contained any immunizing substances it would not be effective in the 
human system. As to the second, it is probable that the substances 
referred to as aiding digestion or nutrition do not exist in pure milk but 
are derived from bacteria. Experience in Germany and Austria, 
where boiled milk is the rule rather than the exception, shows that the 
efifect referred to in the third claim is negligible. In the feeding of 
children it is found that curds do not occur in the intestines if boiled 
milk is used and that any constipating effects would be negligible as 
compared with the intestinal diseases arising from raw milk. 

While specialists are working on these open questions it would be 
well for those who are not sure of the purity of their raw milk supply to 
take the following precautions: 

Insist upon careful inspection of pasteurization in the dairy, for 
although laboratory pasteurization may make milk perfectly safe, 
commercial pasteurization may often be carelessly done and may lead 
to serious results because the consumer is deceived. Keep the pas- 
teurized milk on or near ice. Finally, as a last resort and an absolute 
safeguard, boil the milk. This insures perfect sterility, for it destroys 
lactic, pathological, and all other organisms so that even the putrefac- 
tion which takes place in properly pasteurized milk need not be feared. 



290 The Journal 0} Home Economics [June 

EFFECT OF COLD STORAGE 

Fish can be kept for two years in cold storage without any deprecia- 
tion in its nutritive value, any change in its sanitary character, or any 
diminution of its culinary virtues or its palatability. This is the very 
comprehensive and hopeful report made by chemists of the College 
of Physicians and Surgeons in New York City.^ Note, however, that 
there is nothing in the statement which gives a clean bill to all cold 
storage fish. All depends upon the condition of the fish at the begin- 
ning and the efficiency of the method. The cold storage process of 
food preservation when of the right kind and rightly applied is a boon 
to the housekeeper. It is only when the process is misused, either ig- 
norantly or unscrupulously, that harm results. 

PRESERVATION OF EGGS 

When eggs reach their fabulous winter prices it would be gratify- 
ing to be able to depend upon a home supply which had been stored 
during the siunmer. That every home may have such a supply and 
find the eggs very palatable after a period of several months has been 
proved by experiments conducted at various agricultural experiment 
stations. 

The preserving preparation recommended in a government bulle- 
tin^ consists of one part of syrup-thick pure water glass dissolved in 
ten parts, by volimae, of cooled boiled water. This is to be poured 
over clean (but not washed) eggs which are packed in a clean vessel. 
One gallon of water glass will make sufficient solution for 50 dozen eggs 
if properly packed. 

A SOCIAL NEED 

In a certain primary school in New York attended by 1420 children 
under twelve years of age, it was found that 758 did the family 
marketing and that in 307 of the families represented the mothers 
went out all day to work. 

But in this school there were no cooking classes in which the teachers 
could help these little mothers to buy wisely and to cook a few nutri- 
tious dishes. This suggests that it would be well for any one interested 
in pubUc welfare to inquire into such conditions. 

»W. A. Perlzweig and W. J. Gies: A Further Study of the Chemical Compo- 
sition and Nutritive Value of Fish Subjected to Prolonged Periods of Cold 
Storage, Biochemical Bulletin, III, 1913, No. 9, pp. 67-71. 

2 U. S. Dept. Agr., Office Expt. Stas., Fanner's Bui. 128. Eggs and Their Uses 
as Food. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY FOR HOME ECONOMICS 
LITERATURE 

Food 

Rice and Rice Cookery. Miriam Birdseye, Cornell Reading Course for the 
Farm Home, iii, 1914, no. 55, pp. 86-103, figs. 10. 

Vegetables — Food Value and Preparation. Elizabeth Johnson and Mary Ed- 
monds, Ohio Agric. Coll. Extension Bui., vii, 191 2, no. 10, pp. 16, figs. 8. 

Cacao in Commerce. Philippine Agr. Rev., vii, IQ14, no. i, pp. 19-26. 

Banana Recipes. O. W. Barrett, Philippine Agr. Rev. [English Ed.], vi, 1913, 
no. 9, pp. 451, 452. (Recipes are given for preparing banana and plantain for the 
table.) 

Fish Roe as Human Food. J. Konig and J. Grossfeld, Biochem. Ztschr., liv, 
1913, nos. 2-6, pp. 351-394, pis. 2, fig. I. Abs. Expt. Sta. Record, xxx, 1914, no. 
I, p. 61. 

Fish Milt as Human Food. J. Konig and J. Grossfeld, Biochem. Ztschr., liv, 
1913, nos. 5-6, pp. 333-350. Abs. Expt. Sta. Record, xxx, 1914, no. i, p. 51. 

The Aitch Bone: Why It is an Economical Investment for a Large Family. Ida 
C. Bailey-Allen, Country Gentleman, Ixxix, 1914, no. 9, p. 459. (A number of methods 
of cooking and using this cut are given.) 

Beef Meal. Pure Products, ix, 1913, no. 8, p. 405. 

Food Products: Bread. J. P. Street, Cotm. Agr. Expt. Sta., 1913, Part I, Sec. 2. 

Making Bread in Different Parts of the World. Nat. Geogr. Mag., xix, 1908, no. 3, 
pp. 165-179. (A series of illustrations.) 

The Grinding of Com Meal for Bread. F. P. Dunnington, Alumni Bui. Univ. Va., 
3, ser., vi, 1913, no. 4, pp. 521-532. 

Com Meal as a Food and Ways of Using it. C. F. Langworthy and Caroline L. 
Himt. U. S. Dept. Agr. Farmers Bui., no. 565, 1914, pp. 24. 

Composition and Nutritive Value of "Taralli," a Special Bread made in Naples. 
A. Cutolo, Bol. Soc. Nat. Napoli, 2. ser. xxiv, 1910, pp. 158-164. Abs. Expt. Sta. 
Record, 30, 1914, no. i, p. 62. 

A Special Flask for the Rapid Determination of Water in Flour and Meal. John 
H. Cox. U. S. Dept. Agr. Bui., no. 56, 1914, pp. 7, figs. 7. 

Studies on the Fermentation of Bread, A. J. J. Vandevelde et al. Rev. Gen. 
Chim., xvi, 1913, nos. 4, pp. 53-61; 5, pp. 86-95; 7, pp. 128-130; 8, pp. 136-141. 
Abs. Expt. Sta. Record, 29, 1913-14, no. 9, p. 864. 

The Expensive Sandwich. Editorial, Jour. Am. Med. Assn., Ixii, 1914, no. 10, 
p. 781. 

The Vitamines of Food. Nature, March 12, 1914, p. 41. 

Studies on the Factors affecting the Culinary Quality of Potatoes. O. Butler, 
F. B. Morrison, and F. E. Boll, Jour. Ainer. Soc. Agron., v, 1913, no. i, pp. 1-33, 
figs. 4- 

291 



292 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

Nutrition 

Proteins and Nutrition. Editorial, Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., Ixii, 1914, no. 6, 

p- 458. 

The Availability of Nutrients from Plant Sources. Editorial, Jour. Am. Med. 
Assn., Ixii, 1914, no. 5, pp. 380, 381. 

Some Extremes in Nutrition. Editorial, Jour. Am. Med. Assn., Ixii, 1914, no. 
10, p. 780. (Notes on the diet of Eskimos and others.) 

Amino Acids in Nutrition and Growth. T. B. Osborne and L. B. Mendel, Jour. 
Biol. Chem., xvii, 1914, no. 3, pp. 325-350. 

Utilization of the I'roteins of Cottonseed by Man. J. B. Rather, Jour. Am. 
Chem. Soc, xxxvi. 1914, no. 3, pp. 584-586. (Abstracts from Texas Agr. Expt. 
SUi. Bui. i6j, pp. 26.) 

The Influence of Codliver Oil and Some Other Fats on Growth. T. B. Osborne 
and L. B. Mendel. Jour. Biol. Chem., xvii, 1914, no. 3, pp. 401-408. 

Some Abnormalities in Breast Milk and Their Treatment. Hugh H. Riddle, 
M.D. The Hospital World, 1914, March, p. 181. 

A Study of the Nutritive Value of Some Proprietary Infant Foods. Ruth Wheeler 
and Alice Blester, Atn. Jour. Dis. Child., vii, 1914, no. 3, pp. 169-183. 

Food Requirements of Infants. E. Pritchard, Brit. Jour. Child. Dis., xi, 1914, 
no. 122, p. 49. 

Infant Feeding from a New Viewpoint. G. R. Pisek, A''. Y. State Jour. Med., xiv, 
1914, no. I, pp. 34-36- 

Measured Feeding for Older Children. W. R. P. Emerson, Boston Med. and Surg, 
Jour., clxx, 1914, no. 3, pp. 80-85. 

Menus for Boys from Fourteen to Sixteen Years Old. Boston Cooking School 
Mag., xviii, 1914, no. i, pp. 42-44. 

Malnutrition in School Children — a Clinical Report. B. I. Wyatt, Chicago Med. 
Recorder, xxxv, 1913, no. 5, pp. 282, 283. 

History of the Growth of the Elementary School Lunch Movement. McClure's 
Mag., xli, 1913, October, pp. 120-128. 

Importance of Suitable Meals and Dietary in Higher Education. Jour. State 
Med., xxi, 1913, no. 5, pp. 290-297. 

Luncheon for Women Clerks Employed in the Bank of England. E. M. Harvey, 
Minutes of Evidence taken before the Royal Commission on the Civil Service, April 
10-25, 1913, with Appendices. London Government, 1913, p. 95. 

A Digestion Experiment with Banana Meal. Kakizawa, Arch. Hyg., Ixxx, 1913, 
no. 7-8, pp. 302-309. Ahs. Expt. Sta. Record, xxx, 1914, no. i, p. 62. 

WTiat Becomes of the Protein Digestion Products. Editorial, Jour. Am. Med. 
Assn., bcii, 1914, no. 4, p. 303. 

Contributions to the Physiology of the Stomach, XIII. The Variations in the 
Hunger Contractions of the Empty Stomach with Age. T. L. Patterson, Am. 
Jour. Physiol., xxxiii, 1914, no. 3, pp. 423-429. 

Hyperacidity of the Stomach. A. Schmidt, Jour. Am. Med. Assn., Ixii, 1914, no. 
6, pp. 430-433. 

Some Points in the Treatment of Hyperacidity, Especially with Reference to 
the use of Hydrogen Dioxid. C. H. Neilson, Jour. Am. Med. Assn., Ixii, 1914, no. 
6, pp. 434-436, 



19 14] Bibliography of Current Literature 293 

Hygiene and Sanitation 

The Care of the Baby. Prepared by a committee of the American Association 
for the Study and Prevention of Infant Mortality. Pub. Health Rpls. [U. S.], 1913 
sup. 10, pp. 14. 

Vacuum Cleaning. M. S. Cooky, Heat, and Vent. Mag., ix, 1912, nos. 2, pp. 
39-45, figs. 7; 12, pp. 15-17, figs. 2; 10, 1Q13, nos. r, pp. 11-16, figs. 6; 2, pp. 13-19, 
figs. 10. 

Commission on Milk Standards. Second report of the commission on milk 
standards appointed by the New York milk committee. Pub. Health Rpts. [U. S.] 
xxviii, 1913, no. 34, pp. 1733-1756. fig. i. 

A New Method of Grading Milk and Cream. W. C. Woodward, Pub. Health Rpts. 
[U. S.], xxviii, 1913, no. 8, pp. 333-340. 

The House Fly and Diarrheal Disease among Children. D. B. Armstrong, 
Jotir. Am. Med. Assn., Ixii, no. 3, pp. 200, 201. 

An Investigation into the Relationship of the House Fly to Disease. Donald B. 
Armstrong, Amer. Jour. Pub. Health, iv, 1914, no. 3, pp. 185-196. 

Contamination of Food Supplies: The Value of Protozoa as an Aid in Deter- 
mining Fecal Contamination of the Food Supply. C. W. Stiles, Pub. Health Rpts. 
[U. S.], xxviii, 1913, no. 7, pp. 290, 291. 

Flies as Carriers of Lamblia Spores: The Contamination of Food with Human 
Excreta. C. W. Stiles and W. S. Keister, Pub. Health Rpts. [U. S.], xxviii, 1913, 
no. 48, pp. 2530-2534. 

Contaminated Vegetables: The Use of Night Soil in the Vegetable Garden as a 
Possible Disseminator of Disease. J. D. Long, Pub. Health Rpts. [U. S.], xxviii, 1913, 
no. 13, pp. 592, 593. 

Measles. W. C. Rucker, Pub. Health Rpts. [U. S.], 1913, sup. i, pp. 8. (A dis- 
cussion of the subject valuable for mothers, teachers, and for popular instruction.) 

Contagious Diseases; Their Prevention and Control in Children's Institutions. 
J. B. Leak, Pub. Health Rpts., [U. S.], 1913, sup. 6. 

Tuberculosis: Its Predisposing Causes. F. C. Smith. Pub. Health Rpts. [U. S.] 
1913, sup. 3, pp. 7. (Valuable for popular instruction.) 

Tuberculosis: To What Degree is it Spread by Association in Households? Pub. 
Health Rpls. [U. S.], xxix, 1914, no. 8, pp. 445-448. 

Prevention of Malaria: Suggestions on How to Screen the Home to Keep Out 
Effectively the Mosquitoes Which Spread the Disease. R. H. Von Ezdorf. Pub. 
Health Rpts. [U. S], xxix, 1914, no. 9, pp. 503-508, pis. 2. 

Trachoma: Its Nature and Prevention. J. McMullen, Pub. Health Rpts. [U. S.], 
1913, sup. 8. 

Hospital Relief for the Country: The PossibUity Offered by Hospital Trains in 
Furnishing Much Needed Medical and Surgical Facilities to Rural Districts. C. 
W. Stiles, Pub. Health Rpts. [U. S.], xxviii, 1913, no. 5, pp. 208-212. 

Country Schools and Rural Sanitation. Six sample public schools in one county. 
Does this county need medical inspection in its schools? The country school 
teacher. C. W. Stiles, Pub. Health Rpts. [U. S.], xxviii, 1913, no. 6, pp. 247-249. 

Rural Schools. Sanitary Survey of Schools in Bartholomew County, Ind. J. 
A. Nydcggcr, Pub, Health Rpts. [U. S.], xxix, 1914, no. 6, pp. 342-355. 



294 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

Shower Bath for Country Houses: A Serviceable and Inexpensive Shower Bath 
Readily Improvised in Town or Country, C. Fox, Pub. Health Rpts. [U. S.], 1913, 

sup. 7, pp. 4, fig- I- 

Hygiene of Farmhouse and Farm. J. A. Nydegger, Med. Rec, Ixxxv, 1914, no. 4, 

pp. 143-146. 

Water Supply, Plumbing, and Sewage Disposal for Country Homes. R. W. 
TruUinger, U. S. Dept. Agr. Bui. 57, 1914, PP- 46, figs. 38. 

Public Health Problems and the Education of Nurses. Survey, xxxi, 1914, no. 
23, p. 692. 

Federal Public Health Administration: Its Development and Present Status 
in the United States. J. W. Kerr, Pub. Health Rpls. [U. S.], xxviii, 1913, no. 3, pp. 

109-119. 

Medical Inspection of School Children: Its Practice and Results in Manilla, 
Philippine Islands. C. Fox, Pub. Health Rpts. [U.S.], xxviii, 1913, no. 4, pp. 166-168. 

The Full-Time Health Officer: His Importance in Local Health Administration 
and in the Advancement of Rural Hygiene. L. I. Dublin, Pub. Health Rpts. [U. S.], 
xxix, 1914, no. I, pp. 13-19- 

Economics 

Putting the American Woman and her Home on a Business Basis. Christine 
Frederick, Amer. Rev. of Revs., xlix, 1914, no. 2, pp. 199-208, figs. 9. 

Factors in the Cost of Living. F. W. Blackmar, Rpt. Kans. Bd. Agr., xxxii, 1913, 
no. 125, pp. 47-58. (Statistical and other data are presented.) 

Increased Cost of Maintenance of Children. Special Report Chicago Nursery 
and Half-Orphan Asylum, 1860-1913, Chicago, 1913, pp. 12, 13. 

Cost of Living in Nova Scotia. J. W. Ragsdale, Daily Cons, and Trade Rpts. 
[U. S.l, xvi, 1913, no. 157, p. 134- 

Chicago's City Grocery Store for the Unemployed, Survey, xxxi, 1914, no. 24, 

P- 735- 

Recent Developments in Weights and Measures in the United States. Louis A. 

Fischer, Pop. Sc. Monthly, Ixxxiv, 1914, no. 4, pp. 345-369. 

Increasing America's Meat Supply. The Craftsman, xxvi, 1914, no- i, P- 99- 

How to Live on 3d. or 4d. a Day and What can be Learnt From It. F. J. Cross, 
Cassell's Mag., 1914, n. ser., January, no. 22, pp. 161-170, figs. 8. 

How to Live on 2d. a Day in Time of Adversity, and What can be Learnt from It. 
F. J. Cross, Cassell's Mag., 1914, n. ser., February, no. 23, pp. 223-227, figs. 3. 

Food Prices in London — An Inquiry Into Present Conditions as Affecting the 
Poorer Classes of Workers, J. C. Pringle, London: Charity Organ. Soc, 1913, pp. 36. 

Dietaries and Accounts for Poor Law Unions, England and Wales. Local Govt. 
Bd. [Gt. Brit.], Workhouse Regulation {Dietaries and Accts.) Order, 1900, pp. 27; 
Rpt. Dept. Committee Local Govt. Bd. \Gt. Brit.] Poor Law Orders, i, 1913, pp. 8, 15, 
16, 37-47, 83-88. 

Some Aspects of Food Conservation by Refrigeration, Frank A. Home; Whole- 
sale City Distribution of Farm Products, Frank G. Umer; A Questionnaire on Mar- 
kets, John W. Farley; The Consumers' Cooperative Movement in Chicago, W. M. 
Stickney; Constructive Program for Reduction of Cost of Food Distribution in 
Large Cities, Thomas J. Libbin; Ann. Am. Acad. Polit. and Soc. Sci. 1, 1913, no. 
139- 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 

Any book or periodical mentioned in this department may be obtained through 
the Journal of Home Economics at the price listed. 

Rearing an Imperial Race. Containing a Full Report of the Second Guildhall 
School Conference on Diet, Cookery, and Hygiene, with Dietaries; Special Re- 
ports from H. M. Ambassadors Abroad; Articles on Children's Food Require- 
ments, Clothing, Etc. Edited by C. E. Hecht. London: The St. Catherine 
Press, 1913, pp. xlviii + 508, pis. 12, fig. i. Price, 7s. 6d. 

The National Food Reform Association is blazing a trail in the matter of titles 
for the reports of meetings, a form of literature not very attractive to the average 
reader and in which the results of many hours of labor are likely to lie buried. The 
report of its first conference, held in Guildhall, London, in 191 2, was given to the 
public under the title "Our Children's Health at Home and at School" (reviewed in 
[OURNAL OF Home Economics, 5, 1913, no. 4, p. 340), and now comes the second 
year's proceedings under the still more alluring name, "Rearing an Imperial Race. " 
The example might well be followed by other organizations. 

Less can be said about the typographical means employed to make clear the re- 
lation of things and about the arrangement of the material in the book, which, since 
it is likely that it would prove useful chiefly to students of practical dietetics, should 
be readily accessible. A given student is likely to be specially interested in some 
one phase of the subject — in rural school lunches, perhaps, or in the teaching of 
hj-giene, or to want particularly to know what some one authority contributed to 
the symposium. Such a student is likely to be lost in the mazes of the volume, not 
so much perhaps for lack of guide posts as for a bewilderingly large number of them. 
Almost every paragraph has a conspicuous heading in large tj^pe calling attention 
to what is to come, and calculated to be rather distracting to the reader who is able 
to see his own way through ordinar>' text. "A Plea for Indulgence," for example, 
as a paragraph heading , is hardly necessary for the purpose of indicating that the 
woman who opened the discussion apologized for being unprepared, since the fact 
is clearly stated in what follows, and, since it is in type no larger and no more con- 
spicuous than the headings which have gone before, it is hardly a successful means of 
showing that a paper has come to a close and the discussion has begun. For refer- 
ence purposes too it would be helpful to have a clearer division between the papers 
actually presented at the conference and the other material which the editor has 
selected from one source or another and considers relevant. Then too, editorial 
comments are not separated from other matter by any of the usual typographical 
devices. 

Of good material there is much, a fact which renders the poor arrangement even 
more regrettable. The papers read at the conference are grouped under four gen- 
eral heads: Diet, Cookery, and Hygiene under the Education (Provision of Meals) 

295 



296 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

Act, 1906, and Education (Scotland) Act, 1908; Life and Diet of Primaty Scholars; 
Teaching in Public Elementary Schools of Personal Hygiene, Food Values, Domestic 
Catering and Cookery; Diet, Cookery and Hygiene in Day and Residential Institu- 
tions for Children and Adolescents. These occupy little more than half the volume. 
The following 30 pages aie devoted to the description of the exhibits including diet- 
aries in man)' schools; and the last 200 pages, to miscellaneous material mentioned 
abo\e, which is germane to the subject but was not presented at the conference. 
This section includes a description of "An Essex Village Health Center," the scene 
of the activities of the "Pudding Lady," who under the patronage of Lady Meyer 
is sent into the homes of the district to teach cooking; descriptions of the continu- 
ation classes conducted in the Cadbury and the Rowntree Cocoa Works; and a good 
article on "Clothes and the Child." Those who are specially interested in rural 
problems will find much of value in "How the Family of the Agricultural Laborer 
Lives," by Ronald T. Herdman, M.D., D.P.H. 

The Delinquent Child and the Home. By Sophonisba P. Breckinridge and 

ICdith Abbot. New York: The Survey Associates, pp. 360. $2. 

This book commends itself to anyone who has the well-being of the child at heart. 
It contains a study of juvenile delinquency which was made in Cook County, Illi- 
nois, the data used being the court records from July i, 1S99 to June 30, 1909; 
homes and parents were visited, probation officers interviewed, and school state- 
ments taken. 

The introduction by Julia C. Lathrop states that when the Illinois law for the 
establishment of the Juvenile Court was passed in 1899, the child in court was a 
sign of the wastage of human life. Also the child was being demoralized hy im- 
prisonment for which there was no alternative but discharge or pardon. There 
was no constructive work. 

The new court calls for different facilities from those of jails and prisons, and for 
officers of a different experience from that of sheriffs and bailiffs. The present 
drawbacks of the Juvenile Court are its newness, its need of wisdom based on longer 
experience, and its lack of adequate equipment. The authors designate their book 
as an "Inquiry" made for the purpose of a better understanding of the needs of all 
children, and a more intelligent judgment of the Juvenile Court in serving children. 
There are eight problems considered in order and at considerable length. 

The problem of adjustment is due to several causes. Foreigners tend to segre- 
gate in separate national groups, which makes it difficult for them to be fitted into 
an .\merican community. In their own land they were for the most part farmers; 
here they are engaged in work not at all connected with agriculture. The parents 
lack education and do not know how to protect their children against the perils 
which surround them. 

Poverty is often a direct and compelling cause of delinquency. The investigation 
showed that 69 per cent of the girls and 38 per cent of the boys come from the very 
poor families. Nine-tenths of the girls and three-fourths of the boys come from the 
poor; less than one-tenth of the total come from the families in fairly comfortable 
circumstances; less than two per cent from those whose homes are apparently 
quite comfortable. Poor children are so often handicapped physically and men- 
tally and cannot resist temptation when it comes. To quote, " \Vhen we see all the 



1914] Books and Literature 297 

background of deprivation in their lives, the longing for a little money to spend, for 
the delights of the nickel theater, for the joy of owning a pigeon or the glowing ad- 
venture of a ride on the train, it is not hard to understand how the simple fact of 
being poor is many times a suflicient explanation of delinquency." 

The problem of misfortune includes the broken home, for which it is no easy mat- 
ter to provide a substitute. The child has many temptations. At the same time 
there is a lack of wholesome discipline which the normal family gives. A young 
orphaned girl abandoned in the city may easily become delinquent. A step-parent 
often causes friction. Nothing can take the place of parental care and nurture. 

In the case of degeneracy the body suffers with the spirit and seems to have no 
power of resistance. It is difficult to find these delinquents as well as to know how 
to treat them. Conditions are often discovered too late for effective treatment. 
"When taken in time action should be as swift and sure as it is intelligent and 
far seeing, since there is no time to lose." 

Confusion is a subtle factor. Many children have no fair chance to acquire self 
control or develop a strong character. The oldest child of a family is often brought 
into court because of having to bear too much of the family burden or because the 
parents were so young when married that they had no sense of proper discipline. 
Children forsake overcrowded homes for the freedom of the streets, and sleep 
wherever they happen to be. Discomforts of home, step-parents, general incompe- 
tence and shiftlessness, complete lack of understanding and interest portray a 
pathetic condition. The probation officer becomes a welcome friend who helps 
bring order out of the disorderly home and gives advice not only about the children 
but about the management of the home as well. 

The school is a necessary supplement to the home, but the great majority of poor 
boys leave school to assume pecuniary burdens. Often the first lesson the boy has 
in law-breaking is when the parent swears that he is fourteen years old when he is 
not. Temptations are great and varied, due to small amount of training and the 
impossibility of obtaining desirable work. The status of the girls was harder to 
obtain than that of the boys; but the information gained showed them to be more 
illiterate. The remedies are compulsory education. Child Labor Laws, and un- 
graded or sub-normal classes. 

Because of neighborhood neglect the children of the poor have fewer facilities for 
recreation. The greatest number of delinquents are found in congested sections 
where there are few parks and playgrounds. Both boys and girls, especially girls, 
are victims of neighborhood conditions. It is a community duty to provide whole- 
some recreation for youth. 

The problem of the unmanageable boy in cases where discipline is exercised at 
home proves that the bad boy is not alone the product of poverty and misfortune. 
He is led on by the spirit of adventure. The parents show too great leniency rather 
than the semi-brutal treatment that sometimes is found in the lower grade home. 
The gang influence in this class throws a halo of good comradeship and security over 
wrong doing. 

The delinquent child is neglected by the home, the school and the community. 
"The lesson to be learned from any study of the Juvenile Court in its relation to 
the delinquent child is that the only way of curing delinquency is to prevent it. " 

The thirty statistical tables are full of interest and are worth a careful study. 



2gS The Journal oj Home Economics [June 

Every phase of the subject is illustrated by short extracts from personal inves- 
tigation. If any questions have arisen in the mind of the reader they are fully 
answered in the Appendix which contains Legal Problems Involved in the Establish- 
ment of the Juvenile Court, Testimony of Judge Pinckney, Abstract of Juvenile 
Court Laws, Family Paragraphs Relating to Boys, Family Paragraphs Relating to 
Girls, and Copies of Schedules Used in the Inquiry. 

The Atmospheric Conditions of Workingmen's Houses in the Country in 
Summer. (Das Wohnungsklima der Arbeiterwohnungen auf dem Lande 
in Sommer.) By P. Schulz. Inaug. Diss., Univ. Greifswald, 1913, pp. 63, pi. 

I, tigs. ID. 

This thesis contains a study of housing conditions in the country around Greifs- 
wald, Pomerania, witii special reference to their effect upon infant mortality during 
periods of prolonged heat. 

Different types of houses of brick, plaster, etc., with thatched and tiled roofs, 
etc., are described. Some data are included regarding methods of house-keeping, 
living conditions, and ventilation. In general, the author concludes that the in- 
fants were kept too warm, owing to housing conditions as well as to faulty methods 
of clothing them, and that this had an unfavorable effect on health and mortality. 

Nutritional Physiology. By Percy G. Stiles. Philadelphia and London: W. B. 

Saunders Company, i9i2,pp.27i, illus. $1.25. By mail of the Journal, $1.35. 

Smooth, concise, expressive diction, apt parables, well-balanced presentation of 
thoroughly up-to-date matter and candid delimitation of what we know from what 
we guess are all characteristics one expects to find in Stiles' work. He has long been 
known as one of the ablest of the newer generation of writers on physiological sub- 
jects. 

His new book exemplifies his admirable literary points and presents little to 
question seriously. Seeking earnestly for defects one is forced to confine oneself 
chiefly to regretting the omission of the more intricate matters which might have 
been included without confusion, when treated in the simple, direct manner of the 
writer, and, specifically, the absence of anything relating to vitamins, those little 
known but apparently important constituents of certain foods the absence of which 
seems to account for beri-beri, scurvy and perhaps other distinctly nutritional de- 
rangements. 

Stiles is one of the few scientific writers who take pleasure, with great profit to 
their readers, in balancing off laboratory findings against the natural history of 
people in the mass. His shrewd comments on the relation of Fletcherism to vigor- 
ous old women (chapter xxii), and on alcohol (chapter xxiv) are models of correlating 
"field work" with test tube work. 

If we may be permitted one mild gibe, the writer's tribute to the restraint of 
women at the table as compared with that of men, might well be offset by the re- 
versal of their relative attitudes in the clothes shop: and we would respectfully sug- 
gest that, in future editions, the question why women's excesses run to the outside 
of the body, and men's to the inside might well be discussed. 

We welcome this little book as a very valuable one for the consideration of non- 
technical students of the more thoughtful type, as well as for a large and growing 
class of older citizens who are more and more turning their attention to physical 



19 m] Books and Literature 299 

efficiency and development. For the practicing physician who would absorb with- 
out too much effort or too much study of long forgotten technicalities the present 
developments of the subject of nutrition, the reviewer knows nothing better on the 
market. 

Injurious Insects, How to Recognize and Control Them. By \V. C. O'Kane. 

New York: The Macmillan Company, 191 2, i)p. 414, illus. 600. $2. By mail 

of the Journal, $2.16. 

An entomologist has written this book for those who have no technical knowledge 
of insects. It describes pests of garden and field crops, of orchards and small fruits, 
of the household and stored products, and of domestic animals. It contains also 
description and information concerning the structure and life of insects in general, 
and information concerning various insecticides and other means of insect control. 
Besides this, specific directions for destroying the pest are given with the account of 
each species. The species described include those from other parts of the United 
States as well as from eastern states. The illustrations (original photographs) are 
very numerous and useful. The section devoted to household pests and those of 
stored products includes twenty-two pages. As over thirty species are mentioned 
in this space, not a great deal of detail is given to each, but the remedies suggested 
are most helpful. 

How to Cook in Casserole Dishes. By Marion Harris Neil. Philadelphia: 
David McKay, 1912, pp. 252. $1. By mail of the Journal, Si. 10. 
The author first gives a definition of casserole, which differs slightly from our usual 
interpretation of the word. The use of the casserole as a labor-saving device, since 
both cooking and serving can be done in the same dish, is spoken of at length. 
Several commendable features of casseroles and their uses are mentioned, such as: 
the low cost of the utensil; an entire absence of all metallic contamination; the non- 
necessity for re-dishing the food as the casserole is ornamental enough to grace any 
table; the readiness with which it may be cleaned and its sanitarj- qualities, for no 
taste or odor of former cooking adheres; the retention of all flavors by the process 
of long, slow cooking; the ability to keep foods waiting for the delayed family without 
harm to the food. A few instructions as to care of casserole before its first use, care 
in the oven and on top of the range, are given. The remainder of the book is given 
over to recipes of dishes "en casserole." These include soups, fish, meat, vege- 
tables, salads, puddings, cakes, and even pickles and preserves, and average about 
twenty for each division. 

The One Maid Book of Cookery. By Mistress A. E. Congreve. New York: 
E. P. Button and Company, 1913, pp. 217. Sr. By mail of the Journal, S1.08. 
The value of this book lies in its fund of practical information on domestic arts 
principally dealing with food and its use and preparation. In cookery common 
sense can not be wholly relied upon. Some knowledge of the principles of food 
chemistry and food nutrition are necessary, together with practice and experience. 
Catering deals with the daily provision of food for the household. The author 
gives several happy combinations and substitutes of food as a help to the house- 
keeper. In shopping or selecting the raw materials, good quality always pro\'es to 

IDEPARTWfiKT 



hOLSLhOLD SCIENCfij 



300 The Jaurnal of Home Economics [June 

be the economical. The book also gives excellent advice for the arrangement and 
care of kitchen, scullerj' and larder. A most interesting chapter on cookery methods 
and their principles precedes the many recipes of which the book is largely composed. 

The Efficient Kitchen. By Georgia Boynton Child. New York: McBride Nast 

and Company. $1.25. By mail of the Journal, Si.35- 

Occasionally a real contribution is made to the rapidly increasing literature on 
the subject of household efificiency. Such a one is "The Efficient Kitchen." It 
is a reliable, scientifically practical statement of how conditions may be trans- 
formed in any home, on any income, to make efficient work a possibility instead 
of the much-talked-of ideal. 

One of the first genuine efforts to solve some of the problems pressed upon our 
attention by the increasing cost of fixing was that of the Housekeeping Experi- 
ment Station begun at Darien, Connecticut, some years ago by Mr. and Mrs. 
Barnard, and now being carried on at Stamford, Connecticut, by Mr. and Mrs. 
Alfred T. Child. It is from the results gathered from several years of experimental 
work, both practical and scientific, that this book has been prepared. The cordial 
credit that is given in the book to the pioneer work of Mr. and Mrs. Barnard is 
one of its most attractive features. 

After much search for help in solving the problems of their early housekeeping 
Mrs. Child says, "Finally we came to the Housekeeping Experiment Station at 
Darien, Connecticut. Here at last we found what we had been seeking: an inex- 
pensive b'lt charming home which had been so transformed by engineering skill 
that it could be cared for with the minimum expense, and so eqiupped that it could 
be operated with the smallest possible amoimt of effort. Here we learned of two 
wonderful resources for preparing food, adapted to the income of the average home. 
Here we heard of Taylor's book on 'Scientific Management,' which has been revo- 
lutionizing the business world, and here we saw two old people living happily an 
ideal life in which labor and culture each had its rightful place. At last science and 
high ideals had transformed 'villian kitchen vassalage' into the noble profession of 
home-making." After a year spent with Mr. and Mrs. Barnard in a study of equip- 
ment, fuels and the best appfiances for each, Mr. and Mrs. Child took over the 
Housekeeping Experiment Station. 

The significant fact should be noted by every reader of "The Efficient Kitchen," 
that Mr. and Mrs. Child made no attempt to write a book until they had had years 
of work in this field, also that Mr. Child brought to the experiments the trained, 
educated mind of a chemist and a physicist, and Mrs. Child that of a woman of 
practical home, as well as business, experience. It is easy to write and talk glibly 
on the fascinating topic of household efficiency, without giving one word of real 
help to the housekeeper who knows it is absurd to talk of running a household on a 
railroad schedule, and who is perfectly aware that to follow the suggestions given 
would mean creating a new heaven and a new earth in the minds and hearts, habits 
and behavior, not alone of her own family, but of the stranger within her gates. It 
is not so easy to give advice and make proved statements which may aid every 
woman who heeds, yet Mrs. Child has succeeded m doing this. 

In chapter III is fully explained the grouping of materials and utensils accord- 
ing to the uses they serve rather than in the old way according to kind (the agate 
ware utensils in one closet, groceries in another, cooked food in another, etc.). 



igi4] Books and Literature 301 

Merely to read this is to convince a housekeeper of the older type that she has 
been on the wrong track all her life. 

Chapter VI on hotwater heating systems is an excellent rdsum6 of the various 
means in use for obtaining in the house the temperature necessary for comfort. 

The chapter on the Business Side of the Kitchen will be found very encourag- 
ing to the woman who is striving to bring her finances into order but has little time 
to give to the task. 

From the first definition, "Efficiency has meant in the past the power to produce 
results. It now properly means much more. It means power to produce the 
best results at the lowest cost of time, labor and materials," through to the end the 
book is definitely helpful and very readable. 

Syllabus of Home Economics. (Corrected, January, 1914). Baltimore: Ameri- 
can Home Economics Association, 1913, pp. 69. Paper, $0.50; Cloth, $1.00. 
(See Review in Journal 6, 1914, No. i, p. 87.) Publication No. i for the Ellen 
H. Richards Memorial Fund. 

To meet the demand for the Syllabus, a reprint was necessary. Advantage was 
taken of this to introduce a few textual corrections and to amplify the last section 
of the Syllabus, "Household and Institution Management — Aims and Results," 
(p. 69) in accordance with suggestions which had been made since the Syllabus was 
published. The principal subdivisions of "Aims and Results" now reads: "Theo- 
retical Considerations," "Physical Well-being," "Mental Discipline and Develop- 
ment," "Development of Normal Affections and Interests," "Inspiration," "Social, 
Moral and Spiritual Advancement." 

The data grouped under "Theoretical Considerations" now reads: "Historical, 
general, and theoretical data; the ultimate purpose of the study of aU home prob- 
lems is the fullest and best development of the individual, the family, and the 
larger group; the home as the place in which one's affections center and where one 
finds refuge, rest, or satisfaction;" etc., the remainder of this paragraph bemg 
unchanged. 

The changes in this Section are described in full in order that those who already 
possess copies of the Syllabus may, if they so desire, add to page 69 the few words 
needed to make it accord with the revised edition. 

Childs' Recipes for Cooking and Preparing— Serving and Portion List. 
New York: Child's Company, 1913, pp. 90. Privately printed. 

Recipes and directions are given for the preparation of a large number of dishes, 
particularly those adapted to restaurant service. 

A portion and serving list shows the amount required for one service and gives 
brief directions as to the proper dishes and methods of service. In an appendix, 
niles for testing milk and the trade names of crockery and utensils are given, as well 
as a large amount of data regarding the number of fruits, vegetables, or other food 
materials in a barrel or box and the number of individual portions of cereals in a 
package, and information regarding the standards to be followed in selecting meats, 
fruits, and vegetables. This collection of data, evidently designed for private use, 
contains as a whole much of interest regarding the preparation of food in quanti- 
ties and regarding restaurant service. 

The pages are bound together in a loose leaf volume and for the use of the 
firm only. 



302 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

The Grocer's Encyclopedia. Compiled by A. Ward. New York: 50 Union 
Square, 191 1, pp. 748, pis. 80, figs. 373. Price, .lio.oo. 

This \'olume contains a large amount of data concerning foods, both animal and 
vegetable, their origin, preparation, and marketing, care of foods in market and in 
the home, as well as data regarding their use, and much general information. The 
volume was prepared as a reference handbook for grocers and general storekeepers. 

The material is arranged alphabetically in encyclopedic form. A dictionary 
of food names in five languages is included, together with tables of weights and 
measures. 

The colored plates and other illustrations supplement the text and add to the 
usefulness of the volume. 

Report of the Commonwealth and States of Australia, Second Conference 
on Uniform Standards for Foods and Drugs. Melbourne: Govt., 1913, pp. 47. 

General and specific standards and regiilations are proposed with respect to foods, 
condiments, beverages, and drug products. 

Especially noteworthy is the attention paid to the question of protection of food 
from contamination. Some of the suggestions along this line have to do with per- 
sonal cleanliness, spitting and the use of tobacco, infectious disease, protection of 
food in vehicles, the return of food after it has been sold, wrapping the foods, pro- 
tection from flies and dust and from rats and -ermin, clean premises, sleeping rooms, 
and animals with reference to possible contamination, vehicles and appliances, 
drinking vessels and tableware, and table napkins in public eating places (a regula- 
tion designed to prevent the use of the napkin imder such conditions until it has been 
thoroughly washed and cleansed). 

New Ways and Old — A Manual of Cookery Especially Adapted to the Gas 
Range. By Elsie G. Caring. Rochester, N. Y., 1913, pp. 19. 

A number of recipes are included, also tables indicating the amount of heat to be 
used and the time required for cooking the different articles. 

Bakers' Bread. By P. Richards. Chicago, 1913, 3 ed., pp. 121, pi. i. 

This book is designed for the use of bakers. It contains numerous recipes for 
making a great variety of plain and fancy breads and rolls, together with short dis- 
cussions of different kinds of flour and their use and of the preparation and use of 
bakery yeasts. 

Feed, and Flavor and Texture of Cheese. By T. A. Ubbelohde. Dairy, 25, 

1913, no. 291, pp. 74. 

From experience and observation the author summarizes data on the effect of 
feed upon the quality of cheese. 

Some feeds affect the texture and others the flavor of cheese. In handling the 
curd the affect of feeds on the texture can not be entirely overcome to produce a 
good waxy cheese, although a fairly good cheese may be made. The most trouble- 
some feeds are those containing a large amount of oily or fatty matter. The cheese 
made from the milk of cows that had eaten acorns was found to develop a sharp acid 
flavor when about 4 weeks old, although its texture was good. 



1914] Books and Literature 303 

Technical Education Bulletins. New York: Schools of Technical and Industrial 
Arts and Household Arts, Teachers College. Price, 10 cents each. 

This is a series of bulletins each of which may be considered authoritative on 
its subject. They are models of concise and simple statements. The series includes 
Girl of Tomorrow, Household Management, Feeding of Young Children, Hints on 
Clothing, Determination of Cotton and Linen (25 cents). Dietary Study in Chil- 
dren's Hospital, Canned Foods: Fruits and Vegetables, Physical and Chemical 
Tests for the Housewife, and New List of Supplies and Equipment for Household 
Arts. 

Housekeepers' Manual. Department of Home Economics of Rhode Island State 

Federation of Women's Clubs, 1913, pp. 65. 

The Home Economics committee prepared this pamphlet for distribution, by the 
clubs of Rhode Island, to housekeepers of the state. It is not intended for women 
of experience in well-planned housekeeping, but for those who have had little op- 
portunity to learn the way to better living. 

Helpful suggestions are given on sewing, cleaning, laundering, labor-saving de- 
vices, and methods of preparing and serving meals, together with a number of re- 
cipes. General directions for the care of the sick, the care and feeding of babies and 
children, the making and use of a fireless cooker, and living on the budget plan com- 
plete the informational part of the pamphlet. A list of books and government pub- 
lications is added. 

Outline Lessons in Housekeeping including Cooking, Laundering, Dairy- 
ing, and Nursing: For use in Indian Schools. Washington: Government 
Printing Office, 191 1, pp. 23. Price, 5 cents. 

Although prepared for use in Indian schools, this publication may serve as an aid 
to teachers in other schools. It contains lists of reference books, text books, teach- 
ing and laboratory equipment, brief outlines for thirty-four lessons, and a tentative 
program for a week's work in a boarding school. 

Training the Little Home Maker by Kitchengarden Methods. By Mabel 
L. Keech. Philadelphia and London: J. B. Lippincott Company, 1912, pp. 81, 
pis. 5, fig. I. $1. By mail of the Journal, $1.08. 

An outline of a two years course in housekeeping, one lesson a week, for girls be- 
tween eight and eleven j'ears of age. The book contains a list of articles needed in 
the course with their prices and the music and words of many kitchengarden songs. 

A List of Books for Women in the Home and in Business. Seattle: Seattle 

Public Library, 1913, pp. 45. A limited nimiber free. 

The compiler of this list states in a short introduction that " women are studying 
their problems as never before, and it is because of this very keen interest of women 
in women that we hope this list may prove especially useful at the present time. " 

Under such headings as Domestic Economy, Home Building, Cooking, Dietetics, 
Sanitation, Clothing and Textiles, Care of Children, and Economic and Social Re- 
lations, selected lists are given of books by authorities on each subject. A list of 
magazines for women is found on the last page. 



304 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

Choosing an Occupation: A List of Books and References on Vocational 
Choice, Guidance and Training, in the Brooklyn Public Library. Brook- 
l>Ti: Brooklyn Public Library, 1913, pp. 63. Single copies free. 

In this publication one finds selected lists of books and periodicals on the related 
subjects of vocational choice, vocational guidance, and vocational training. In the 
first di\-ision, vocational choice, the lists are arranged under specific occupations. 
There is also a list of other bibliographies on vocational subjects. 

BOOKS RECEIVED 

Practical Homemaking. By Mabel Hyde Kittridge. New York: The Century 
Company. $0.60. By mail of the Journal, $0.65. 

The Craft of Hand-Made Rugs. By Amy Hicks. New York: McBride, Nast 
and Company. $2. Bymailof the Journal, S2. 10. 

How to Buy Furniture for the Home. By Forrest Oiler. Indianapolis: Oilar 
Brothers. Postage prepaid, $1.50. 

The Fundamental Basis of Nutrition. By Graham Lusk. New Haven and 
New York : Yale University Press. $0.50. By mail of the Journal, $0.55. 

The Oriental Cook Book. By Ardashes Keoleian. New York: Sully and Klein- 
teich. $2. By mail of the Journal, $2.10. 

The Care of the Child in Health. By Nathan Oppenheim. New York: The 
Macmillan Company. $1.25. By mail of the Journal, $1.3 2. 

The Development of the Child. By Nathan Oppenheim. New York : The Mac- 
millan Company. $1.25. By mail of the Journal, Si. 35. 

The Mother and Child. By Norman Bamesby. New York: Mitchell Kennerly 
Si. 25. By mail of the Journal, S 1.3 2. 

First Book of Health. By Carl Hartman and Lewis Bibb, M.D. New York: 
World Book Company. $0.35. By mail of the Journal, $0.40. 

The Human Body and its Enemies. By Carl Hartman and Lewis Bibb, M.D. 
New York: World Book Company. $0.65. By mail of the Journal, $0.75. 

Industrial Education. By Albert Leake. Boston: Houghton Mifflm Company. 
$1.25. By mail of the Journal, $1.35. 

Teaching Sex Hygiene in Public Schools. By Edith Lowr>-, M.D. Chicago: 
Forbes and Company. $0.50. By mail of the Journal. $0.55. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 

Pacific Conference of Home Economics. The lasl annual meeting of the 
Pacific Conference of Home Economics was held November 13, 1913, at Los Ange- 
les. An address on Household Management was followed by a business meeting 
in which the officers for the year were elected. Much interest has been mani- 
fested in the work of the Conference during the year, and twenty-five mem- 
bers have joined since the fall meeting. 

The fonnation of the two sections — Domestic Art and Domestic Science — has 
been an excellent idea as shown by the interest and good attendance at the monthly 
meetings of each section. 

The Domestic Art Section has been making a special study of Textiles and Voca- 
tional Training for Girls. Members have visited stores, examined materials, and 
gained much information and help. They also secured men and women of practical 
experience in handling such materials to address their meetings on the subjects of 
millinery, dressmaking, linens, silks, laces and household furnishings. 

The Domestic Science Section carried out their program in a similar way, taking 
up the subjects of food (meat, milk, etc.), markets, the Underwood tariff bill in its 
relation to economics, and methods of teaching domestic science. 

The Home Economics Association of Greater New York. The regular 

meeting of the Association was held March 26, 19 14, at Teachers College. Miss 
\'an Rensselaer spoke on the subject, Home Economics and Rural Progress. 

The demand for teachers in the rural sections, Miss Van Rensselaer said, is 
greater than in the cities at the present time and the requirements are high. The 
teacher must have had practical experience in order to speak profitably to a farm 
community. !Miss \'an Rensselaer believes that two of the great needs that the 
women in rural sections feel at present are, first, how to dress and furnish the home 
tastefully; second, how can woman's work be financially profitable. The first will 
satisfy her artistic cravings and the second enable the girl to stay on the farm and 
not feel the necessity for going into the cities to enter factories. 

The meeting was well attended and Miss Van Rensselaer's address was appre- 
ciated. 

The Association was invited to attend, on March 19, two food conferences ar- 
ranged by the Bureau of Public Health and Hygiene and held at The Academy 
of Medicine. The meetings were very profitable. 

Miss Hazen, in charge of the Gas Appliance Display Rooms entertained the 
Association in the Model Apartment on March 4. The new gas appliances were 
very well demonstrated. 

The Omicron Nu Society, The Beta Chapter of Albany, N. Y., has thirteen 
active members, two of whom are faculty members. Meetings are held about 
every six weeks during the school year. At these meetings certain topics in Home 
Economics are considered. Thus far this year, the topics have been Pure Food 

30s 



3o6 The Journal of Home Economics [June 

and Its Adulteration, Current Events in Home Economics, and the Consumer's 
League. 

The exercises on Home Economics Day were planned by the Society, Miss Anna 
Cooley of Teachers College being the principal speaker. 

New England Home Economics Association. The third regular meeting of 
the New England Home Economics Association was held at the Twentieth Century 
Club, Boston, on Thursday, March 5. The subject was Woman as a Purchasing 
Agent. The speakers were Mrs. Forrester Macdonald Lowell, How I Planned and 
Furnished my House; Miss Lillie C. Smith, The Cost of Food in Relation to its 
Nutritive Value (illustrated by a chart prepared by the pupils); Miss Frances Stern, 
Purchasing Food for the Immigrant Family; and Miss Annette Crocker, The Pro- 
fessional Purchasing Agent and Accountant. 

The armual meeting was held at Simmons College in May. 

Home Economics Day in Pennsylvania. For the first time. Home Eco- 
nomics Day was brought to the attention of thousands of women in Pennsylvania 
through The Messenger, the organ of the State Federation of Women. The day 
was observed in many places by a short review of the life and writings of Ellen H. 
Richards, which gave every one a new sense of obligation to our pioneer in Home 
Economics. The importance of the work to which she devoted her life is also 
being impressed upon the women throughout the state. 

Seattle Home Economics Association. The topics for discussion at the 
meetings held during the year were: Market Regulations and Their Enforcement, 
Vocational Guidance, A European Trip, Hanging of Pictures in the Home, Vio- 
lations of the State Food Laws, Illustrative Material for Textiles and Clothing, 
The Educational Value of Home Economics, The Work of the Industrial Centers. 

In addition to the regular program, work has been carried on in investigating 
local market and factory conditions, and in preparing an exhibit for the Child Wel- 
fare Exhibit held in May. 

The Home Economics Association of Philadelphia. The most important 
work of the current events committee has been the preparation and publication of a 
four page bibliography for Home Economics literature in current magazines and 
reports. The references are arranged under three headings: articles of general in- 
terest, articles for the school dietitian, and articles on foods. 

The household science committee arranged for two meetings in April, as foUows: 
April 6, at the William Penn High School, Bill of Fare Making, Miss Caroline Hunt; 
April 22, at Temple University, Budget Making, Miss Ethel Lamping. 

The Graduate School of Home Economics. The Graduate School of Home 
Economics which was announced to be held at the University of Missouri during the 
summer of 19 14, will not be held. The annual meeting of the American Home Eco- 
nomics Association which will be held in Cleveland early in July affords opportuni- 
ties for reports, conferences and lectures which othenvise would be given at the 
Graduate School. It is hoped that the omission of the Graduate School will result 
in a larger attendance at the Annual meeting. Amy L. Daniels, Chairman of Com- 
mittee on Graduate School. 



1914I News from the Field 307 

Missouri Home Makers Conference. The State Homemakers Conference 
of Missouri is an organization of women which holds its annual meeting in Colum- 
bia in connection with the Home Economics Department of the University. The 
work of this Conference is divided into several departments, one of which is that 
of Child Welfare. 

In this department only three lines of interest were selected this year. One ses- 
sion was given to art and music in the home. Another meeting was devoted to 
papers and discussions of moral and ethical training in the home. The third meet- 
ing was one on games and amusements for children and with it was held a baby 
health contest. The children from the elementary school of the State University 
gave an exhibition of games such as ten pins, bean bags, three deep ring toss, and 
basket ball. Some Mother Goose rh>'mes were dramatized, and a number of folk 
dances were given. 

The baby health contest was instituted in order that the babies of our state 
might receive more attention. It was conducted without prizes of any kind, and 
the babies were protected from publicity in every way. The score card used was 
furnished by the Physiology Department of the State University and is an attempt 
at measuring the child's physical and mental development. The anthropometric 
measurements were made by persons of experience and skill. The medical exam- 
ination was given by the Dean of our State Medical School, who is a specialist in eye, 
ear, nose and throat disease. 

The score cards, when completely filled out were mailed to the parents of the 
babies. The front of the card contained the eugenical history of the child, and a 
set of rules for preservation of the health of the baby. 

This whole movement has been characterized by the absence of any comparison 
of children, of any commercialism, or any of the spectacular, or sensational element. 
No attempt was made to give medical advice, though an attempt was made to give 
intelligent answers to questions. Where the need of a doctor's care was indicated 
the attention of the parents was called to this fact. 

Sixty babies were entered, and they included all strata of society. These babies 
averaged higher than Holt's standards and a little lower than the Colorado babies 
as reported in the newspapers. 

This contest impressed one strongly with the fact that parents, while ignorant on 
what modem science says about the care and culture of babies, are most anxious to 
learn all that they can on this subject and that until we find some means of bringing 
this information within the reach of all parents we must not hope to materially lessen 
our infant mortality. 

Household Arts Alumni Conference at Teachers College. Seven hundred 
alumni of Teachers College, Columbia University, celebrated the twenty-fifth anni- 
versar>' of that institution, February 20-21, with an educational conference in 
which one section was devoted to household arts. About one hundred and fifty 
persons interested in household arts teaching gathered for the following program: 

What the Society for the Promotion of Industrial Education is Doing at the 
Present Time, with Particular Emphasis upon the Work for Girls, by Miss Cleo 
Murtland, .Assistant Secretary, National Society for the Promotion of Industrial 
Education; The Women's Educational and Industrial Union and Simmons College, 
by Prof. Mary Schenck Woolman; Household Arts in a Children's Home, by Mr. 



3o8 The Journal of Home Economics [Jvme 

R. R. Reeder, Superintendent, OrjAanage, Haslings-on-Hudson; A Bit of Historic 
Costume, (illustrated with stereopticon slides), by Miss Jane Fales, Assistant Pro- 
fessor of Household Arts, Teachers College. 

In addition to the educational conference, a meeting of the graduates in House- 
hold Administration was held, bringing together about forty former students. Re- 
ports were given by young women engaged in conducting a laundry, a tea room, 
women's clubs, visiting housekeeping work, factory welfare work, the work of man- 
ager of a university, and other new fields which are opening in administration. 

Massachusetts Agriculture College, Extension Service. Home Economics 
extension work has for I'.e first time been organized on regular lines during the past 
year. The first activity undertaken was the summer school in July. The courses 
offered were of two types — one adapted to those generally interested or actively en- 
gaged in home making, the other designed to help teachers of schools in small vil- 
lages where meager facilities only are available for teaching the subject. For three 
days immediately following the close of the summer school the Conference for 
Rural Community Leaders was held and a woman's section was a part of each 
morning's program. 

Ten Extension Schools were held, each one lasting from Monday until Friday. 
The expressions of appreciation recei%-ed at the close of each school, the regularity 
of attendance, and the increasing membership as each day passed were conclusive 
evidence of the value of the work. 

Of a different nature are the "Commimity Schools," of which two have been 
held. Here the problems of the group were emphasized rather than those of the 
individual as in the regular extension schools. In each, two periods were devoted 
to the women's work in the community and in the home. 

During the aimual Farmers' Week in March, the woman's section registered 460 
with an average attendance at the section meetings of 195. Prominent among the 
speakers were Dr. Benjamin Andrews, of Teachers College, who spoke on The 
Economic Phase of Household Management; Dr. Evangeline W. Young, of Boston, 
who talked on Sex Hygiene; Miss Bertha M. Shapleigh, of Teachers College, who 
demonstrated cookery. The New England Home Economics Association had 
charge of one afternoon's program. 

The State Grange, the Home Economics Department of the Massachusetts Feder- 
ation of Women's Clubs, and the New England Home Economics Association have 
cooperated, and this coming year a carefully prepared program is to be given so that 
true constructive work may be accomplished. Girls' Home Economics Clubs have 
been organized under the joint supervision of this department and that of Agri- 
cultural Education. It has not been possible to accept all invitations to speak be- 
fore granges, clubs and alliances, but a number of such addresses have been given. 

New Hampshire College. New Hampshire State College began the organiza- 
tion of a department of Home Economics in May, 1913. The work was placed under 
the direction of Miss Helen B. Thompson and classes were opened in September. A 
splendid equipment was installed during the summer. In response to the announce- 
ment of the course the enrollment of women increased to double the number for 
the preceding year. Sixty-three women have been registered, most of them taking 
work in the department and many of them entering the full course. 



1914I News from the Field 309 

The course in Home Economics is one of three courses in the arts and science 
division and is so arranged as to be technical for students wishing a professional 
training, or elective for arts and science students who desire a more general course. 

The women's dormitory has been filled to the limit of its capacity and plans are 
under way for an addition to the building for next year. 

It is evident that New Hampshire is thoroughly interested in this phase of edu- 
cation. The high schools and academics are rapidly putting Home Economics into 
their courses; there are frequent calls from women's clubs, granges, and farmers' 
and teachers' institutes for lectures on the subject, and at the Annual Farmers' 
Week, held at the college, January 26-30, there was an enthusiastic attendance, at 
the woman's section, of both men and women from all parts of the state. 

Illinois Woman's College. The department of Home Economics is growing 
very rapidly. In 191 1 Miss I ucy H. Gillett became director and completely revised 
the work, putting it upon a thoroughly scientific basis. She established the four-year 
course leading to the degree of Bachelor of Science, and there is a steady increase in 
the number of students entering for this course. 

Miss Florence H. Churton succeeded Miss Gillett in September last, as the latter 
resigned to spend the year in study at Columbia University. Miss Bettina Leicht, 
of the Albany Normal College, has charge of the work in household arts. 

The Woman's College Guild of Jacksonville has recently given the money with 
which to purchase a large number of books for the Home Economics library. On 
March 8, the members of the guild with the entire college faculty visited the depart- 
ment, to see the regular classes in session and an exhibit of work done in sewing and 
handwork. 

Johns Hopkins Summer School. Among the courses to be given at this uni- 
versity during the summer are the following: 

Elementarj- Cookery, Miss Harris. The aim of this course is to give a working 
knowledge of the elementary principles of cookery. 

Methods of Teaching Domestic Science, Miss Harris. In the class work the fol- 
lowing topics are treated: educational value, the place in the curriculum, equipment 
for teaching courses of study, planning lessons, and methods of presenting work by 
demonstrations. Opportunity will be given for practical work in teaching a class in 
domestic science. 

Household Chemistr>', Professor Gilpin. This course is intended for those who 
have taken courses in elementary chemistry and domestic science. It wiU include 
a study of fuels, combustion, oxidation, air, water (its analysis and purification), food 
principles, preparation and testing of food, and preservatives. 

The Parents' League. It will be good news to many a puzzled father and 
mother that there is a movement on foot to form societies whose aim shall be 'to 
unite parents in an effort to promote the moral, mental and physical well-being of 
their children by establishing wholesome standards in matters affecting their 
education, amusements and home life." 

The Parent's League of New York City was organized last December and was the 
outgrowth of a meeting of parents and teachers to consider "how to solve the theater 
problem and the late hours indulged in by young boys and girls. " 



3IO The Journal of Home Economics [June 

" By means of the cooperation of parents the league hopes to make it easier for 
the individual parent to establish somewhat more rational and simple occupations 
and amusements for children during the hours when they are not in school, and dur- 
ing the holidays. Its purpose is not to reorganize the home, but to influence con- 
ditions outside the home. " 

To quote from the literature sent out by the Boston League of the same name 
"it is an effort to anticipate the need of reform; to counteract the tendency of the 
social impulse, which, like a dancing dervish, excited by its own motion, increases 
its velocity with every turn. 

"As a matter of fact, many of us feel very diffident as to our ability to decide in 
each new instance for our children, the question of their relation to the ever-chang- 
ing suggestions and opportunities of the day. Each of us is confronted almost daily 
with a new problem, inseparable from the growth of our particular child, and differ- 
ing from all questions which have preceded it; and it seems to us well that we should 
make for ourselves an opportunity to discuss these things, and to come to some con- 
clusions founded on our own combined best judgment, as to the ways of meeting the 
questions of the hour, and of placing the future of our children, mentally, morally, 
physically and socially, that is to say in all human relations, upon the best possible 
basis. " 

At a late meeting of the New York League the following recommendations were 
adopted: 

"That boys and girls of school age refuse all invitations to parties, theaters, etc., 
during the school term, except occasionally, on Fridays and Saturdays, and that 
parties and theater going be limited during the holidays. 

"That parents arrange simple and appropriate forms of recreation for the chil- 
dren; for instance, attendance at young people's concerts, visits to the country, 
museums and places of interest; and that they reser\-e time during the holidays to 
join their children during such recreations. 

"That parents advocate reasonable hours for beginning and ending dances for 
young people, that they state them in aU invitations, and that they carefully super- 
vise the maimer of dancing. 

"That a theater committee send bulletins at regular inters-als to all the active 
members of the league, suggesting the most suitable plays for young people. That 
parents in sending invitations to the theater state the name of the play. 

"That parents confer frequently with the teachers of their children regarding 
questions affecting their education and general welfare, and that they cooperate 
with the teachers in upholding the rules and standards of the school. 

"That articles bearing on vital questions relating to the up-bringing and educa- 
tion of children be circulated among the active members of the league, and that the 
members hold informal meetings for the discussion of these questions. 

"That cooperation be sought of such organizations as the Junior League and the 
alumnae associations of the schools, in order that sons and daughters may work in 
sympathy with their parents toward a common end. " 

These leagues have started among wealthy people in cooperation with the private 
schools but their usefulness would seem to be apparent all along the line. Parents, 
no matter how independent, often find great difficulty in enforcing standards that 
do not prevail among their children's friends. 



1 9 14] News from the Field 311 

Relief Society Grocery. The change from the corner grocery to their own gro- 
cery, resulted, during ten weeks, in a net saving of 22.8 per cent of the amount 
ordinarily spent for food by the New York Relief Society. Besides this saving, the 
new method makes it possible for the dietitian to arrange a wholesome, varied, and 
nutritious diet for the needy families. 

The visitor, after finding out the needs of a family, goes to the central ofTice and 
by referring to the dietitian's guides gives an order for her particular family for a 
day's or a week's supplies. All orders are sent from the ofTices to the store and the 
goods delivered to some sections every day, to others, twice a week. 

National Organization of Nurses. The annual convention of the National 
Organization of Nurses of the United States met in St. Louis, April 23-29. At this 
convention were assembled the three branches of the national organization — The 
American Nurses' Association, the National League of Nursing Education, and the 
National Organization for Public Health Nursing. 

The Red Cross joined with the other associations in St. Louis in preparing an 
exhibit of charts, laboratory equipment, and materials representing teaching and 
hospital work, public health nursing and medical social service. 

Methods of teaching, approved schools of nursing and their entrance require- 
ments, standardization of nursing, public health nursing, private nursing, and 
other topics of interest in the nursing field were discussed. 

International Congress on Home Education. The International Congress on 
Home Education was organized in 1905 under the patronage of the Belgian govern- 
ment. After three European Conferences, the fourth is announced to meet in 
Philadelphia, September 22-29, under the auspices of the International Com- 
mission. The members of this commission appointed by the United States Govern- 
ment are: Mrs. Charles Henrotin, Honorary President of the General Federation 
of Women's Clubs; Professor M. V. O'Shea, University of Wisconsin, and Pro- 
fessor WiU S. Monroe, State Normal School, New Jersey. 

The program of this congress will be in charge of the chairmen of sections, as 
follows: Child Study, Dr. G. Stanley Hall; Family Education, Mrs. Frederick 
Schoff, President National Congress of Mothers and Parent Teachers' Associations; 
Subjects Relating to the Child Before School Age, Miss Lucy Wheelock, Kinder- 
garten Training School, Boston, Mass.; Subjects Relating to the Child During 
School Age; Subjects Relating to the Child and Youth After School Age, Dr. David 
B. Snedden; Subjects Relating to the Abnormal and the Physically Handicapped 
Child, Dr. Walter S. Cornell, Chief Medical Inspector, Board of Education, Phila- 
delphia; Various Organizations Relating to the Welfare of Childhood and Youth, 
Children's Courts, Associations to Fight Tuberculosis, etc., Dr. Harlan UpdegrafiF, 
University of Pennsylvania; Literature and Documentation; The Home and the 
School in Cooperation for the Education of the Child, Dr. P. P. Claxton, United 
States Commissioner of Education. 

Prominent men and women who will participate in the program are: Miss 
Julia C. Lathrop, Judge Ben Lindsey, Dr. Graham Bell, Dr. Charles De Garmo, 
and others. Besides these educators from the United States there will be repre- 
sentatives from every country of North and South America and Europe. 

This promises to be the greatest congress on the welfare of childhood and youth 
that has ever been held in any country. 



^12 The Journal oj Home Economics [June 

Congress on Child Welfare. Men and women of international importance who 
are interested in child welfare were brought together by the Third International 
Congress on the Welfare of the Child. This Congress met in Washington, April 
22-27, under the auspices of the National Congress of Mothers and Parent Teachers 
Associations. 

Representatives from China, Japan, Bulgaria and other foreign countries as well 
as noted men and women from all parts of the United States took part in the dis- 
cussions on vital subjects connected with child welfare. Some of these topics, which 
were divided into sub-topics, were: The Relation of the School, the Church, and the 
Home to Child Welfare; Education for Home Making; Opportunities for parents 
to Obtain Instruction in Child Nurture and Home Making; and The Nation's 
Protection of Home and Family. 

The Florida Canning School. The organization of Canning Clubs is a definite 
part of the Home Economics work of the Florida State College for Women. A net- 
\vork of influence has been efTected by the formation of clubs in twenty-si.x counties 
each with its county agent who reports directly to the department of Home Eco- 
nomics. Under their supervision there are 1600 girls, planting, canning and doing 
other things at home. 

Once a year the agents meet at the college for a week's instruction in canning, 
marketing, etc. This year's canning school was held March 9-1 1 with a program 
that included reports from the county agents, canning demonstrations, and dis- 
cussion and lectures on Agriculture in the Northern part of Florida, Tomato Culture 
in Florida, the Development of Canning Club Work in the Southern States, Stand- 
ardization of Club Products, and Reports, Exhibits, and INIethods of Organization. 

The Alexandra Trust. The Alexandra Trust is an Institution in London 
founded by Sir Thomas Lipton who gave a sum of over £70,000. The management 
plan to cover their expenses but have a fund available so that should the markets 
at any time be against them they could still supply food at the usual prices; but 
there has been no occasion so far. The food served is of excellent quality and every 
care is taken in its preparation. 

They have had a contract for years past to supply breakfasts and dinners to 
needy children provided by the London County Council. They supply a two course 
dinner to poor children belonging to the Iloxton Mission, at i|d per head, daily. 
They use about 5 cwt. of haricots, \\ cwt. of butter beans and 6 cwt. of peas a day, 
and bake 7000 big loaves of bread a week. 

Their card of prices shows the following: tea, coffee, cocoa, per small mug, ^d; 
slice of bread and pure butter, ^d; roll and butter (pure), id; toasted tea cake, ijd; 
half toasted tea cake, id; poached egg on toast, 2d; 2 poached eggs on toast, 3d; 
rashers of bacon, ijd and 2d; rasher and 3 eggs, 4d; porridge and milk, id; salmon 
and sardines, id; cakes and pastries, ^d; kippers, each id, per pair, i^d; haddocks, 
id, lid, and 2d. 

Their vans delivering the food for London County Council service are many and 
go to all districts of London, as far as six or eight miles out. The food is packed in 
boxes specially constructed to retain the heat, so that hot food is served to the 
children. 



1 914] News from the Field 313 

Social Service Congress. The accredited delegates to the National Social 
Service Congress, held at Ottawa, March 3-5, numbered about eight hundred. 
Great interest was manifested, and the interest has spread throughout the Dominion. 

His Royal Highness The Governor General, the Right Honorable R. L. Borden, 
Prime Minister, and the Right Honorable Sir Wilfred Laurier, ex-Prime Minister, 
addressed the congress. Four other members of the Government were on the pro- 
gram. Two distinguished American speakers of world-wide repute contributed 
very highly to the inspiration of this remarkable gathering — Professor Graham 
Taylor, of Chicago, and the Rev. Chas. Stelzle, of New York. Each gave three ad- 
dresses, one by each speaker being given at a luncheon in the palatial hotel, the 
Chateau Laurier. The dining-room which seats four hundred and fifty guests could 
not accommodate all who wished to hear the addresses. 

Canada is keeping pace, at least, with the rest of the world in the great social 
awakening, and the congress at Ottawa has given social service in all its aspects a 
new and much higher standing alike with the people and with the Parliament of 
Canada. This congress was held under the auspices of the Social Service Council 
of Canada which comprises eleven different religious and philanthropic bodies. 

Art in the Home. Many cities are realizing that their libraries and museums 
ought to bear a more definite relation to the home. To this end they have ar- 
ranged exhibits of textiles, tapestries, vases, etc. Referring to such an exhibit 
the Outlook for February 7, says: 

"Many teachers have visited the exhibit, taking away valuable suggestions for 
class work. For instance, linoleum as an art fabric is practically imknown in this 
country. In this direction the exhibit suggests possibilities of brmging floors into 
harmony with walls and ceilings, not always attained with rugs, carpets, and wood; 
furthermore, the fabric is economical and hygienic. There is no reason why art in 
a home should be confined to one room, any more than that one day of the week 
should be set apart for being good. Every object and phase of life, through 
adaptability to the use for which it is intended, may be made harmonious, and so 
artistic. This movement of industrial art, rightly applied to daily routine, may 
do something towards making the living of life itself the greatest of all arts." 

Mr. Dana, Director of the Newark Public Library has organized a circulating 
museum. It is his idea to loan articles to homes and thus develop a love of the 
beautiful. He also has free exhibits in which is shown the value of the usefulness 
of art objects. He believes that oil paintings do not have so close a relationship 
to the development of good taste and refinement among people as do the genius 
and skill that have gone into the perfecting of household objects. 

Life Extension Institute. "The Life Extension Institute" has been organ- 
ized by a group of active men who feel that unapplied theories are of little 
value. Ex-President Taft will be chairman of the Board of Trustees, and Colonel 
Gorgas will be Chief Consultant in Sanitation on the Hygienic Reference Board. 

Of the work of the Institute Professor Fisher says: "The purpose of this Board 
is to help determine the truth on hygienic questions referred to it. The method 
to be used to prolong life is very simple and the same as applied to ordinary 
machinery — mspection and repair. After the human machine has been inspected 
the individual will be advised to see his family physician, who will furnish a full 
statement of the results of the examination. 



THE BIENNIAL, GENERAL FEDERATION OF WOMEN'S 

CLUBS 

Home Economics Day at the Biennial occurs on June 15 in connection with that 
of the closely allied department of Public Health. In the morning session the re- 
ports of both the Public Health and Home Economics chairmen will be given, and 
each department will present a speaker. Dr. Philander P. Claxton, the United 
States Commissioner of Education, will speak for the Home Economics Depart- 
ment on The Educational and Cultural Value of Home Economics. 

In the afternoon of the same day the two departments hold separate conferences. 
The topics to be presented for discussion are as follows: The Greatest Need of the 
Home Today; DiSculties Encountered in Interesting Clubs in Home Economics; 
and the subject of Clean Food. 

AJl three topics are for open discussion in which those who are not club members, 
but whose work is well known, have been invited to participate. We will have with 
us Dr. Carl L. Alsberg, Chief of the Bureau of Chemistry, and Dr. C. F. Lang- 
worthy, Chief of the Division of Nutrition, Washington, D. C; Miss A. B. Wimple, 
State Bakery Inspector, Olympia, Washington; Dr. John H. Long, Medical College, 
Northwestern University, Chicago, Illinois; Dr. Herbert D. Pease, of the Lederle 
Laboratories, New York City; Dr. Benjamin R. Andrews of Teachers College, 
Columbia University, New York City; Mr. W. Scott Matthews, Food Commissioner 
of Illinois; Dr. Harry Barnard, Food Commissioner of Indiana; Mr. Harry Snyder, 
author of "Human Foods; " and others. 

Some of those who will be present, and who have particular interest in the Home 
Economics world, are Mrs. Mary H. Abel, Editor of The Journal of Home Eco- 
nomics; Miss Isabel Bevier, Professor of Household Science, University of Illinois; 
Miss Abby L. Marlatt, Professor of Home Economics, University of Wisconsin; 
Dr. Amy L. Daniels, University of Missouri; Prof. Marion Talbot, University of 
Chicago; Mrs. H. M. Dunlap, Ex-President of the Household Science Department, 
Illinois Farmers' Institute; and others. 

The discussion of clean food will be opened by Mrs. O. G. Ellis, Vice-Chairman 
of the Public Health Department. This work of food sanitation was under the di- 
rection of the Public Health Department until within the past six months. It was 
transferred to the Home Economics Department by action of the Board of the Gen- 
eral Federation at the request of Mrs. Crockett last December. Its most able sub- 
chairman, Mrs. McKibben of Grant's Pass, Oregon, was continued in ofiSce with her 
committee and Mrs. McKibben will be present to teU of her work. 

The discussion of The Need of Greater Uniformity in State Food Laws will be 
opened by Dr. Alsberg, and the subject of Clean Food by Miss Wimple. 

On Wednesday afternoon, the seventeenth, there will be a meeting of the State 
Chairmen of Home Economics. Seven of this number and the chairman of the 
General Federation are trained Home Economics teachers, four more have had years 
of experience in many phases of this work, and two others both practical and club 
experience of many years. It is a strong, responsive and representative committee. 

This committee urges the readers of the Journal who are members of clubs or 
teachers of Home Economics, who can or will be in Chicago at this time, to join in 
the conferences and aid in the discussions. Helen Louise Johnson, Chairman. 

314 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Home, Institution, School 

EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR 

Mrs. Mary H. Abel Klturah E. Haldwin 

EDITORIAL BOARD 
Benj. R. Andrews C. F. Langworthy 

Isabel Ely Lord Anna Barrows 

COLLABORATORS 
The Officers and Members of the Council 

Vol. VI OCTOP.KR, 1914 Xo. 4 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Latin as a vocational study 315 

The Smith-Lever bill • 318 

Content of Home Economics courses 320 

The laundry, L. Ray Balderston 321 

Buying lunch room supplies, Edna M. Klaer 3 28 

Food and the law, Helen Louise Johnson iTy2 

Household progress of one hundred years, B. R. Andrews 340 

Count Rumford, Arthui Gordon Webster 344 

Formal methods for preparing and serving food : 352 

Editorials 354 

Housekeepers' department 359 

Bibliography for Home Economics literature 377 

Books and hterature 3S1 

Books received 388 

News from the field 389 

Report of the Cleveland meeting 397 

Report of the Lake Placid meeting 415 

Report of the Chicago Biennial 417 



The Journal of Home Economics is pubh'shed five times during the year. February, April, 
June, October, December, by the American Home Economics Association. 

$2.00 A YEAR. FOREIGN $2.25. SINGLE COPIES 50 CENTS. 

HOW TO REMIT. Remittances should be sent by Draft on New York, Express Order, or 
Postal Money Order, payable to the .•\merican Home Economics Association. Currency, unless 
mailed in a registered letter, is at the sender's risk. 

CHANGE IN .\DDRESS. Notice of change in address should be sent Two Weeks before 
the date of issue on which the change is to take effect. The change cannot be made unless the 
subscriber's Old Address is clearly indicated in addition to the New Address. 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 
Roland Park Branch, Balttmoee. Md 

Entered as second class matter at the Baltimore Post Office. 




Portrait of Count Rumford when sent to England as Ambassador from 
Bavaria. 1798. Aged 45. (See page 344.) 



Courtesy of American Academy of Arta and Sciences, Boston, Mass. 



THE 

Journal^/Home Economics 

Vol. VT OCTOBER, 1914 No. 4 

LATIN AS A VOCATIONAL STUDY 

Under the above title Mr. Albert D. Perkins, head of the Department 
of Ancient Languages in the High School of Dorchester, Massachusetts, 
presented a paper last April before the New England Classical Associa- 
tion. It will appear in full in the Classical Journal for October. Mean- 
while, with Mr. Perkins' consent, we quote for our readers from a 
partial report which appeared in the Boston Teachers^ News Letter of 
June, since the paper records a most interesting experiment. 

Mr. Perkins has appUed very practical tests to a question that has suf- 
fered much from the theorizers, as witness certain recent discussions of 
the value of classical studies, in which too often the memories of along 
past youth are made to do duty for argument, and the words ''classical" 
and ' 'vocational' ' are set up against each other as natural enemies. Mr. 
Perkins' attack was direct, his method admirable. He set himself one 
task, to decide whether two years of the required modem language 
study in the curriculum could be advantageously exchanged for the 
Latin to be taught with the special end in view of improving the stu- 
dent's grasp of English, and thus his chances of success in a chosen 
career. It seems that business men are complaining more and more 
that the graduates of high schools cannot spell and have only the most 
limited knowledge of the meaning of words. 

Miss Blanchard, the teacher of salesmanship in the Dorchester High School, who 
also has an evening class in Business Administration composed of employees in 
Filene's store, goes even further. She states that it is found in the work down town, 
that the chief obstacle to promotion is ignorance of English; that is, lack of knowl- 
edge of the meaning and use of words derived from the Latin. To quote Miss 
Blanchard: "The success of a salesman or business man is found in actual practice 
to be directly proportioned on the one hand, to ability to understand what the other 
man has to say, and on the other hand, the ability to convince him of the superiority 
of the goods ofifered for sale, or the advantage connected with the business proposi- 

315 



oi5 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

tion in hand." In short, other things being equal, it is vocabulary which holds the 
key to success. This fact is recognized by the educational department at Filene's 
and as a result every night the members of the evening classes bring in for explana- 
tion and study, lists of words tliey have heard during the day, but have not under- 
stood. These words, sometimes amounting to as many as forty are almost entirely 
of Latin origin. Thus, you see, we are confronted not with a theory, but with a con- 
dition, as it actually exists in the fierce competition of ihe business world of today. 

To quote another teacher, Miss Ripley, "A broad, flexible, discrimi- 
nating vocabulary is a prime business asset. In my opinion, the time 
is coming to an end when the crude, uneducated tradeswoman can 
succeed." 

In the spring of 191 2 the experiment was begun in the commercial 
department of the Dorchester High School, with one section of the 
pupils, 40 in ntmiber. The second year the teaching was given to four 
sections, numbering about 165. Mr. Perkins took the class himself 
and he says that apart from the usual routine of mastering forms and 
syntax (for he was determined that the course should be a serious study 
of the Latin language) he tried to emphasize two things. 

First, very many written translations in which much stress is laid upon correct 
English; and second, a study of the meaning and use of words derived from Latin, 
taking the Latin words of the vocabularies — and the authors read — as a basis. 
The English words are classified as to parts of speech, and speUed (over and over 
again, if necessary), their meanings are traced from the Latin; and finally, English 
sentences are written containing the words correctly used. A careful record is kept 
in notebooks provided for the purpose. They get most of the derivatives from their 
English dictionaries. I try to give them as few words as possible, myself, in order 
that the spirit of investigation and discovery may help to keep up the interest. As 
a matter of fact, the interest aroused by these discoveries has been unequaled by 
anything else I have observed in the classroom in recent years. The words must be 
recorded correctly, and reviewed, both orally and in written exercises, until fixed. 
Even then, of course, it will be impossible for every pupil to know all the words, 
however much one may try to hammer them in. 

The English department in the Dorchester High School is naturally interested in 
the experiment. I was not a little pleased the other day when an English teacher 
remarked that the new course seemed to have justified itself already, since the 
pupils were forever consulting their English dictionaries. 

Mr. Perkins goes on to say that a year ago Latin was also introduced 
into the department of dressmaking and millinery by Miss Ripley, the 
teacher in charge. -^ 

As to the method Mr. Perkins continues: 

Syntax is studied only to the extent of making clear the meaning of what is read, 
and lists of English derivatives are made from every available Latin word met in the 



1914I Latin as a Vocational Study 317 

course. These derivatives are classified as to parts of speech, defined, and later 
embodied in sentences composed by the pupils. The number of derivatives in most 
cases is surprisingly large. Few Latin words yield less than half a dozen, some as 
many as 60 or 70, while facto gave the astonishing number of 156. 

The pupils begin with the root or base of the Latin word, and then run through 
with the prefi.xes. For example, in scribo, scriptus, scribere, scrips!, they find what 
they can in the English dictionarj' from the two stems scrib and script, and then 
hunt up other words, taking the prefixes in alphabetical order. We thus lay much 
stress upon prefixes, and as a matter of fact, after a few months have a typewritten 
list of them pasted on the inside of the cover of the note-book for easy reference in 
looking up derivatives. Just here is a point. Since in the study of stenography, 
many of the Latin prefixes and suffixes, and not a few Latin words, are represented 
by definite phonographic signs, the commercial pupils who have studied Latin, when 
they come to phonography in the third and fourth years, have a distinct advantage. 
In fact, this year five or six fourth-year commercial pupils, who had not had my 
training, entered the Latin class, primarily that they might master these phono- 
graphic signs with greater facility. 

The last two years of the class are to be devoted to a modem language, and I am 
not without hope that the language power developed by the two years' study of 
Latin may enable the pupils to read nearly as much French or German as if they had 
taken the modem language from the start. 

Finally it was found possible to make an actual test of the value of the Latin 
training by selecting two sets of pupils of equal ability, one set in the second year of 
Latin, and the other in the second year of a modem language. Accordingly, we 
chose pupils such that each group had virtually the same average mark in Latin, 
on the one hand, and modem language, on the other, and also in English, with the 
result in actual figures that the non-Latin group in the two studies averaged 0.5 of 
1 per cent the higher. To make doubly sure that the Latin pupils were not 
favored, the non-Latin group were taken from the section of Mr. Murdock, a classi- 
cal scholar, who in his English teaching emphasizes the Latin element in the language. 
There were 21 pupils in each set, all in the second-year-class of the school.^ 

The results of the six measurements were as follows: 

Januar>- and February 1914. 

Latin Non Latin 

Spelling 82.5 72.6 

Use of words in sentences 57.5 40 . 6 

Definitions and parts of speech 69 . 5 33-3 

Meaning of words and spelling 57.0 27.5 

Excellence in vocabulary 36.0 6.8 

June 1913 

Meaning of words and spelling 65 . 3 12.3 

6 ) 367 -8 6 ) 193 ■ I 

General average 61.3 32.18 

61.3 — 32.18 = 29. 12 in favor of the Latin trained. 

' For the details of the text the original paper must be consulted. The utmost pre- 
cautions were taken to insure that those of the Latin course should not be favored. 



2i8 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

In these six tests, the blundering and groping in the dark on the part of the non- 
Latin students would be ludicrous but for the tragedy of it all. For example, one 
pupil said of concussion: "An accident; leaves some people with a disease of the 
brain." A second gave this meaning of resonant: "To be firmly fixed in a certain 
resolution." Again potent was explained as "something which hangs overhead; 
hence, a warning." By another militant was defined as "a woman who destroys 
everything within her reach; a suffragette." Still another defined intervention as 
"an invention of something invented before;" and, finally, a youngster capped the 
climax by explaining pendant as "a Harvard- Yale game." 

This experiment makes a definite contribution to our show list of 
proved and tested methods. It has aroused great interest, and many 
believe that it points out the way in which the ancient languages are to 
be reinstated, 

THE SMITH-LEVER BILL 

From the Experiment Station Record of May, 1914, we abstract the 
important points concerning this bill, which has so much of interest 
for students and teachers of Extension Work in Home Economics. 

This new measure is the sixth act which recognizes agriculture as an appropriate 
subject for promotion by the Federal Government, and the fifth to provide perma- 
nent grants from the public Treasury to be used through the system of state institu- 
tions established by the Morrill land-grant of 1862. 

Former acts have so educated the public that this one has been 
passed in response to a widespread demand. Farmers, speaking 
through their various organizations have been especially eager for it, 
and there is a general recognition that this bill will make for the 
improvement of the country's greatest industry and conserve our 
national resources for posterity. 

The growth of the bill may be traced back to 1906 when the com- 
mittee on extension work of the Association of Agricultural Colleges 
and Experiment Stations made its recommendation that each Agri- 
cultural College should organize such a department. In 1910 a bill 
was passed which enabled federal state forces to cooperate and as the 
work progressed, the conviction grew "That agriculture was not 
keeping pace with modern progress and that added means were indis- 
pensable for reaching and influencing the mass of fanners on the land." 

The present bill which was passed by Congress last winter and 
signed by the President in May, is the fiscal expression of several 
different bills that have been under discussion for over two years. 



1 9 14] The Smith-Lever Bill 319 

The Act provides that" in order to aid in diflfusing among the people of the United 
States useful and practical information on subjects relating to agriculture and home 
econom'cs and to encourage the application of the same," there may be inaugurated 
in connection with the colleges receiving federal aid under the Morrill acts, agricul- 
tural extension work to be carried on in cooperation with this department. This 
work is to consist of "the giving of instruction and practical demonstrations in 
agriculture and home economics to persons not attending or resident in said college 
in the several communities, and imparting to such persons information on said sub- 
jects through field demonstrations, publications, and otherwise." 

For the maintenance of the work there is permanently appropriated $480,000 per 
annum, or $10,000 for each State which accepts the provisions of the Act. In addi- 
tion, there is appropriated $600,000 for the second fiscal year of its operation, and 
for each year thereafter for seven years $500,000 additional, until a total of $4,100,- 
000 is reached, which with the $480,000 makes a total of $4,580,000, and continues as 
a permanent annual appropriation. Unlike the initial appropriation of $480,000, 
these additional appropriations are to be allotted annually to each state by the 
Secretary of Agriculture in the proportion which its rural population bears to the 
total rural population. They are also conditional upon the provision by the States 
of an equal sum for maintenance of the work, supplied either by direct appropria- 
tion or contributions from the county, college, or local authorities, or from 
individuals within the State. 

The Act further provides that the extension work authorized is to be carried on 
in such manner as may be mutually agreed upon by the Secretary of Agriculture 
and the colleges. 

It is specified that in States where there are two or more colleges receiving the 
benefits of the Morrill acts, the legislatures shall designate the institutions to re- 
ceive the appropriations. No part of the appropriation can be used in the purchase, 
erection, or repair of buildings, the purchase or rental of land, college course 
teaching, promoting agricultural trains, or other purposes not specifically author- 
ized, and not more than 5 per cent for the printing and distribution of publications. 

In one respect, the measure is unusually broad; it recognizes the 
home and the home maker and the general conditions of country living, 
the term "Home Economics" formally appearing in federal legislation 
for probably the first time. It is, therefore, a recognition of the Ameri- 
can home maker and of the worth and dignity of the vocation which 
she represents, as well as an acknowledgment of the great importance 
of farming. 

The question has already arisen, "What proportion of this money is 
to be available for extension teachers of Home Economics?" In one 
department of the work, the Canning Clubs of the South, the need 
seems to be pressing, for the funds from the General Education Board 
which have financed them up to the passage of the Smith-Lever Bill, 
are no longer at their disposal. 



320 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

But there is every reason to think that no injustice will be done. 
The great fact is that in thus seeking to promote the general welfare 
by a comprehensive and permanent system of extension work on the 
farm and in the home, the Federal Government becomes an active 
cooperator in the campaign for rural development and progress which 
has made such remarkable headway within recent years. Plan^ for 
the expenditure of this money are not wholly in the hands of the Agri- 
cultural Colleges. They are to act in cooperation with the Depart- 
ment of Agriculture. As fast as the leaders in Extension Work in 
Home Economics can mature their plans and train their teachers, they 
will undoubtedly receive their share of this fund. It should be remem- 
bered that the first appropriation of $10,000 per State will not go very 
far. Much of it will be spent in creating or perfecting the organization 
for extension work. The tendency will be to put a considerable share 
into enterprises already begun. The demand for county agents is so 
great that this will absorb the fund until the counties generally have 
such agents. Meanwhile the friends of Home Economics should study 
the situation, formulate reasonable plans for extension work among 
farm women, get into sympathetic touch with the officers in charge of 
extension work at the colleges, exert steady pressure for Home Eco- 
nomics work and prepare the way for its spread. 

CONTENT OF HOME ECONOMICS COURSES 

Those who attended the Cleveland Meeting had the pleasure of 
listening to brief addresses from Dr. P. P. Claxton, United States 
Commissioner of Education and Dr. Da\dd Snedden, Superintendent 
of Education of the State of IMassachusetts. Extracts from Dr. Sned- 
den's address will appear in the December Journal. 

Dr. Claxton expressed his interest not only in his official capacity, 
but his personal interest, as a citizen, in Home Economics as a 
branch that meets the most foundational requirement of true educa- 
tion, in that it is intimately connected with the daily life. He held 
that the raw material of education must be the past and present experi- 
ence of those who are taught; that its results must be to interpret this 
experience or, in the words of Pestalozzi, to " make the people intelligent 
about the life they live." Thus, what is close to life and in continued 
use becomes most valuable as educational material. He quoted 
Bernard Shaw as saying that "women are interested primarily in life 
while men are interested in the activities and trappings of life." 



1914] The Laundry 321 

Women are interested in the right use of things produced, while men are 
interested in producing. He held that women exercising their function 
of choice would yet dictate how houses for homes would be built and 
what should be the output in food and clothing, and this being the case 
the best knowledge regarding all these subjects should be put into their 
hands. 

Dr. Claxton recommended that attention be turned to making the 
subject content of Home Economics courses more definite and that 
ways be devised for introducing these courses not only into the 14,000 
high schools of the country but into the 300,000 schools below the high 
schools, since the welfare of our people depends, for some part of their 
lives, primarily on the way a home is run; and the time will never 
come when we shall not need to know more about how to make the home 
a fit place for children to grow to manhood and womanhood. 

In conclusion Dr. Claxton spoke of the recent increase in the govern- 
ment appropriation for the work of the Bureau of Educat'on and said 
that it was his purpose to employ one or more specialists in the teach- 
ing of Home Economics in order to make the Bureau as nearly as pos- 
sible a clearing house for information, advice, and mature opinion on 
this important branch of education. 

THE LAUNDRY: EQUIPMENT, PLANS, AND FORMULAS^ 
Miss L. Ray Balderston 

Teachers College, Columbia University 

Report of the Laundry Committee. The chairman of the Laundry 
Committee was appointed in November. She asked five other mem- 
bers to act on the committee. The subject was divided into five sec- 
tions — educational, institutional, commercial, municipal and cooper- 
ative. 

The plan was to ask those who were working in these fields to investi- 
gate and bring in reports that might be linked together. These reports 
it was hoped would show the relation and interrelation of those who 
were specializing and were, perhaps, anxious to know of the other fields 
or who did not have time to learn all the other vie\vpoints. For 
example, one person answered, when asked to send in any material she 

1 Presented at the Fifth Annual Meeting of the Institution Economics Section of 
the American Home Economics Association, Lake Placid, N.Y., June, 1914. 



222 The Jotirnal of Home Economics [October 

might have that would be of help to the conference, " We have nothing 
to send because we are just doing laundry work in connection with our 
dormitory." Another answered, "I am not sending any formulas as 
they are no different from others, but I shall be glad to see what has 
been sent in when they are published. May I have a copy?" This 
letter was answered and in reply some very valuable formulas came. 

The chairman had cordial response from all, but all except one 
declined to work as leaders for the five groups. The time was fast 
passing, and so the report had to be made up by the chairman from 
the letters sent m, and the special work of the students of Institutional 
Laundry at Teachers College. This latter is presented in our exhibit 
with the idea that it means more to see it than to hear it read. 

From the educational side, fifty letters were sent to colleges, agri- 
cultural and industrial schools. These letters asked to have outlines 
of courses of laundry work for either domestic or institutional train- 
ing sent in. A second question inquired where this work is given in the 
curriculum. The following are giving courses in laundry work: 
University of Washington; State College of W^ashington ; Lewis Insti- 
tute, Chicago; College of Hawaii (optional); Agricultural College, 
Iowa; University of Maine, Orono; Temple College, Philadelphia; 
Agricultural College, Alfred, N. Y.; Pratt Institute, Brooklyn; Drexel 
Institute, Philadelphia, Teachers College, New York; and Battle 
Creek Sanatorium. 

In most cases the work is in connection with the textile course. 
Only one answer (Battle Creek) came that they had institutional work. 
Many are giving a little training to their students, more are asking 
about equipment and teaching outlines. Miss Raitt who was asked 
to lead a section on the educational work of the laundry sends this 
report: 

I wrote to the Universities, colleges and normal schools in Washington, Idaho, 
Montana and Oregon and find it encouraging to see how many small schools realize 
the loss they suffer in not having the course. In Idaho they train laundry mana- 
gers for cooperative laundries in connection with the farmers cooperative creamer- 
ies in their short course. 

Miss Raitt's question for discussion is the relation between the 
course in textiles and laundering. She says: "We have included dye- 
ing with laundry work but find it hard not to overlap with the textile 
work." 



1914] ^^^ Laundry 323 

From the field comes most often the request for equipment. From 
the demands for trained women sent to Teachers College it is a positive 
need for us to have women trained in laundry from its broad view- 
point — chemistry, textiles, laundry methods and machinery and plans 
as well as devices. 

A letter just received reads: "We want a woman trained to do her 
work as a profession rather than as a job." Another writes: " Will you 
help us furnish our laundry and when we are ready we will call on you 
for a trained woman to run it and teach laundry." A club wants a 
trained woman — hospitals are always asking, and so far the answer is: 
"No one to send." 

This work requires as much special training as any other if the work 
is to be scientific and economical. The short course given in a textile 
or domestic course is not enough to make a woman capable and ready 
for the big problem. 

There is, perhaps, no field so devoid of valuable reference books; 
no work which has gone by such a hit-and-miss method as ours ; and 
no field where so much scientific research and friendly exchange 
should exist. 

The institutional problem is a definite one needing cooperation, uni- 
fying, and standardizing. 

The matter of waste can never be met until the formulas are stand- 
ardized. This standardization will come only through exchange of the 
best, the working out of formulas, and then no longer considering 
these formulas as stock in trade to the worker, but as a matter of 
educational and institutional value and necessity. 

The problems of machinery are best met by the commercial man who 
is always doing the most work with least cost and least expenditure of 
time. It behooves the institutional worker to follow the commercial 
worker with efiiciency in mind. Could there not be the individual 
working out of problems during the year, and then as a free will offering 
could they not be sent in as early as March to your laundry chairman? 

Some problems sent in for discussion are those we have heard before 
but they remain unsolved — such problems as the following: 

What is the relative wear and tear of machine vs. handwork? Is 
twenty-five times a good number of washings for a shirt waist before it 
breaks? The expense problem — bags and boxes vs. paper and string. 
Sorting and marking. Standards of marking. Is it economy to do 
blankets in the institutions? How much bleach is required? Is it 
always required? 



524 ^^'^ Journal of Home Economics [October 

The commercial viewpoint is with us and still not of us. It is from 
it we are to learn. Some suggestions from the commercial side may be 
passed on to us : 

The use of aniline blue in all institutional laundries is recom- 
mended, realizing that balls and block blues are wasteful in them- 
selves and in the carelessness and ignorance of the worker. 

The use of neutral soap as the best economy and with it a high grade 
soda; and the accepted fact that it is not economy, at least to most 
institutions, to make their own soap. 

The more extensive use of body ironer for aprons, skirts and under- 
wear in general. 

That the heated tumbler is a substantial help and one here to stay. 

That bleach may be eliminated through the use of cold water, to- 
gether with soap, for the soak and for the wash water. Bellevue 
Hospital proves this when we find in their report that with the 
thousands and thousands of pieces daily, scarcely a gallon of bleach a 
month is used. 

A type of commercial laundry work which means much today be- 
cause of its two-fold interest is the so-called charity laundry or settle- 
ment laundry. It is commercial in that it is self-supporting, and is 
municipal in that it is a benefit to the many women who are insuffi- 
ciently trained for the work. These laundries can be a success to the 
patron, to the worker and to the institution, but there is no place where 
the trained head can be and is of such great need. The risk of wear 
and tear, the economy, and more than all the fact that these places 
are training schools for women who may later take up this work 
as a trade or a profession, is reason enough why the trained worker 
should be created and placed over such a venture. 

Another tx'pe of commercial worker appearing on the horizon is 
the head of a community laundry — we may call it cooperative. A 
few weeks ago a woman of means representing 25 families — all wealthy 
— wanted a person who would help plan the making over, into a 
laundry, of a large house on the master's estate. The plan was for 
these 25 families to ship their laundry, four hours' journey, to this 
community laundry with the full assurance that work would be 
perfectly done. This work requires a trained woman. 

A special field opening as the interest increases is a so-called laundry 
architect or efficiency woman. This person must be versed in machin- 
ery, its construction, relative value, initial cost, operative cost and the 
general arrangement of plant from working view point. Three calls 



1914] The Laundry 325 

in two weeks for that work, to say nothing of the correspondence, 
show this need of a trained woman. 

From the municipal view point, we hunt earnestly for cities where 
the poor have been considered as to health and decency. Compared 
with foreign countries our country, which is said to have the largest 
soap bill, and it is said the cleanliness of a nation is known by its soap 
bill, has made the least headway in this great matter of public health. 
Dr. Donald B. Armstrong says: "PubUc health is purcliasable, so, 
indeed is public cleanliness." Many communities provide the means 
for the cleansing of human bodies. "It is just as essential," says Dr. 
Armstrong, "to health and decency that public facilities where private 
ones are lacking, should be provided for cleansing of the garment, the 
condition of which must, otherwise lower the tone of decency of the 
people of the community." We are all teaching bacteriology, biology, 
public health, sanitation, but at our door we allow 30 to 45 per cent of 
the families in large cities to be without washing facilities in their 
homes and even a much greater percentage are without hot water 
unless heated on the kitchen stove. 

No more need be said as to the reason for these places. To some 
extent the wet wash has met the need, but then comes the dr}dng 
stage and its steam and the inconvenience of wet clothes in the li\ing 
quarters, to say nothing of the odor, the dampness for the family who 
many times must eat, sleep, and work in the same quarters. 

There are 15 public wash houses in all America against 35 in London 
alone, and 16 in Glasgow. The public wash houses can be combined 
with the public bath houses. There are two kinds of public laundries to 
be considered — the wash house and the laundry. The cost of the wash 
house is small because equipment is simple and inexpensive. Set 
tubs are placed — two to a stall — and here the woman may take her 
clothes, wash them in the privacy of the compartment allotted her and 
may dry them in a drier. 

The public laundry is a machine laundry where the washing ma- 
chines have 4-5 sections for as many different washes at a time. 
A man is hired to superintend and run the machines, together with the 
extractor and drier. A bag or locker is allowed each owner, who may 
leave a wash and call for it sweet and clean later in the day. The cost 
for this being about 20 cents. The woman has done none of the work, 

A letter from Dr. Armstrong, June 12, brings the splendid news 
from New York City that two laundries are at last to be established by 
October i for the poor, one to be a wash house and one a laundry. 



326 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

This letter also invites the cooperation of the students in laundry work 
at Teachers College, and was received with rejoicing. 

Every worker in sanitation, economic or efi&ciency problems should 
give individual consideration to the municipal or public wash houses in 
her city, and in the rural districts to the cooperative laundries. Many 
of our riu-al teachers are teaching better home methods, excellent in 
themselves, but for the woman already overworked, let the teacher urge 
the creamer}^ machinery' doing double duty, churning butter in one side 
or end of the building, and washing clothes in the other. 

Our fifth section, cooperative laundries, has not been discussed, as 
no special growth has been reported this year, except ISIiss EflBe Raitt 
reports that in Idaho they are training teachers for cooperative laun- 
dries in their creamery short courses. 

WTiat is the very gist of the committee's report? 

First, much keener interest is evident today than ever before that 
the laundry in the home, in the institution, and in the community be 
no longer work with a hit-and-miss method, but with scientific reasons 
for everything. 

Second, that laundering of soiled clothes is not a job but must be a 
profession, where knowledge of textiles, chemistry, and mechanics is 
not only recognized but used. 

Third, that a trained worker must be demanded to conduct this work 
and this worker must no longer be considered the laundress but, as an 
official, a recognized member whose work is just as essential to the 
welfare of humanity as that of a dietitian or general housekeeper. 

Fourth, That training schools must consider this matter as a positive, 
definite demand for education, and that school boards incorporate it 
into their school curriculum. The younger children should have it as a 
home training problem with the \iew to better sanitation ; the women in 
household arts training must have a fuller course that they may be 
able to supervise in the school and in the home, and tend towards bet- 
ter economy; the training schools must take it up to prepare women for 
the work which is more and more to be sent out of the home, or, if in an 
institution, must be cared for as a sanitation and economic problem. 

Fifth, there must be cooperation among the commercial, institution, 
and teacher worker. 

Subjects for discussion and for reports for next year's work of the Committee 

1. Determining effect of laundry wear — bleach vs. none. 

2. Disinfection of clothes in the laundry. 



1914] The Laundry 327 

3. Handling laundry work in general. Household science course. Amount of 

practical work. 

4. Method by which dormitory originally planned to house and feed 30 or 40 

people can be changed to an institution for several hundred. Question: 
What apparatus and changes in organization? 

5. Cooperative laundries, organization of same. 

6. Can laundry be done without sunshine and bleach? 

7. How much bleach required for washing clean a wash for 1 50 women and 1 2 men? 

8. Is 25 times a good number of washings for a waist without breaking? 

9. Prices — maximum and minimum for flat work. 

10. The question of buttoning the ironed garment and its annoyance. 

11. Comparative expense in paper vs. bo.x packages for delivery of laundried goods. 

12. Training required for women. 

13. Prices paid to heads of laundries. 

14. Position of head of laundry. 

15. Relation of laundry course with textiles. 

16. Shall dyeing be taught with the textiles. 

Felting of mangles 

1. Requirements: 

Material coarsely woven; of good absorbent quality; evaporates moisture 
rapidly; sufficiently elastic to withstand great heat; staj's soft; prevents the 
breaking of buttons. 

2. Kinds — classified according to above requirements: 

Woven wool felt; "Atlas" white felt; Brown laimdry hair felt; "Atlas" knitted 
padding. 

3. Relative values — width and cost: 

a. Woven wool felt: 42 inch wide — 2\ lbs. to running yard; $1.00 per lb. — 20 
yd. bolt; $1.25 per lb. — less than bolt. 

b. "Atlas" white felt: 9 widths from 26 inches — 120 inches; 55 cents per lb. 
in 50 yd. bolts; 60c per lb. in shorter lengths. 

c. Brown laundry hair felt: \ inch thick per sq. ft. 6\ cents; \ inch thick per sq. 
ft. 7 cents; | inch thick per sq. ft. 10 cents; i inch thick per sq. foot 13 cents. 

One cent per sq. ft. additional for cutting. 

d. "Atlas" knitted padding: 

50 yds. less than 50 yds. 
I inch thick, 51 inches wide, per yd. S1.05 $1.25 

I inch thick, 74 inches wide, per yd. 1.60 1.85 

f inch thick, 90 inches wide, per yd. 1.90 2.25 

Outside covering of mangles 

1. Requirements: 

a. Material of smooth equal surface to prevent marking of article mangled. 

b. ^Material with very little sizing to prevent burning when in contact with 
ironing surface. 

2. Kinds — Classified according to above requirements: 

Unbleached muslin; duck; enamel cloth; Atlas cloth. 



728 The Journal of Home Economks [October 

3. Relative values width and cost: 

a. Unbleached muslin: 6 widths from 36 inches to 108 inches, 9 to 365 cents 
per yd. in 50-yd. bolts. 

b. Duck: 

Width in Price per yard 

inches No. 8 No. 10 No. 12 

50 $0.69 $0.58 $0.48 

72 1.04 0.87 0.72 

90 1.35 1. 12 0.94 

T04 1.60 1.33 I 10 

c. Enamel Cloth: 46 inches wide, per yd. 29 cents; 56 inches wide, per yd. 
30 cents; 72 inches wide, per yd. 33 cents. 

BUYING LUNCH ROOM SUPPLIES^ 
Edna M. Klaer 

Supervisor, Elementary School Lunches, New York City 

The buying of lunch room supplies differs very much according to 
the type of school, or type of lunch room, and the quality of food 
served. In a small lunch room or in a large one without storing facili- 
ties it is necessar>' to buy in retail quantities. During the summer 
the New York schools are closed, except two, one cripple school and 
one truant school. Rather than have food delivered for these in large 
quantities from the food supply store we decided to buy in the corner 
grocery near there, getting the best prices possible. For example, we 
tried to get cocoa in bulk or large amounts, but they had nothing except 
half pound cans, at 20 cents. We had been paying 14 cents a pound for 
bulk cocoa and getting the best quality. After the same experience 
with many other supplies we decided it was cheaper to have the food 
delivered from the food supply store and pay for the distribution. 
That will be the experience very often in the small schools, or the small 
lunch rooms with no storage space. 

In the larger lunch rooms with storage space it is more economical to 
buy in large quantities. The car lot is of course the best, but this is 
almost always impossible for there are very few institutions that are 
able to handle that quantity of food without there being enough waste 
to overcome the profit. By going directly to the wholesale grocer and 
buying in the original packages, such things as macaroni, prunes, 
dried apples, etc., in 50-pound lots, good value may be obtained. 

' Presented at the Fifth .\nnual Meetmg of the Institution Economics Section of 
the American Home Economics Association, Lake Placid, N. Y., June, 1914. 



1914I Buying Lunch Room Supplies 329 

Deliveries are made daily but very often you have to pay for the deliv^ery. 
In New York we have five central kitchens which are supplying food for 
1 7 schools. Some of our food, when we want small quantities, comes 
from the food supply store; otherwise it comes from the wholesale 
grocery direct, and by that method we have saved about 25 per cent 
on the original cost. 

In dealing with salesmen, the difficulty is to get the same quality 
in delivered goods as was shown in samples. It is necessary-, especially 
after two or three deliveries, to check up the food directly with the 
samples in order to hold the salesman up to the standard which he has 
set himself. This has been found to be much more difTicult than de- 
tecting errors in prices, and it is a task that cannot be turned over to 
untrained assistants. Another matter that must be checked is the 
weight. This we have arranged for by pro\'iding scales in our five 
central kitchens where everything is to be weighed and checked up. 
The law should protect from scant weights but it is not often enforced. 

In buying we have to consider first the psycholog}^ of selling food. 
If food is not attractive it is very hard to persuade people to buy it. 
The attractiveness depends partly upon the preparation, especially in 
crackers, prepared and dried fruits, etc. For example, very small prunes, 
even if cooked well, are not as attractive as large ones. It is a question 
whether it is economy to buy the smaller prunes at a cheaper price, not 
only on account of the appearance, but also on account of the propor- 
tion of pit to pulp. At present we are experimenting with different 
grades of prunes to see whether we really do save money by buying the 
smaller ones. We have very little standardization of foods in any 
state, at least it is not very apparent and this is especially true in 
regard to canned goods. Canned goods should be bought in case 
lots, the samples should be opened, and the proportion of liquid 
to solid food measured so that we may see, in buying a more expensive 
brand whether we are really getting a cheaper or a more expensive 
article. If we are paying for a large amount of water we are certainly 
in the end not getting as much value as if we bought a more expensive 
brand and added the water ourselves. This is to be considered in 
buying tomatoes, corn, and almost all of the canned vegetables and 
fruits. Another point in buying canned goods is to notice the flavor 
very carefully. That differs very much according to the quality of 
food used and the method of preparation. We have watched these 
points in buying the dried fruits and vegetables that constitute the 
greater part of the food used in the New York schools. 



o^o The Journal of Home Economics [October 

Another question arises as to the use of the sulphur bleached foods. 
We have not been able to prove, as definitely as we should like, 
whether or not the sulphur bleached fruits are injurious, but in Ger- 
many it is acknowledged that they are. It would at least seem best 
to avoid the sulphur bleached fruits and vegetables. In the question 
of flour some consider it a better plan to buy two or three grades of 
flour and mix them; this plan would, no doubt, be advisable in institu- 
tions or lunch rooms where a large quantity, is bought. One brand of 
flour may have a high percentage of gluten and, by mixing two or three 
brands, a result may be obtained similar to that where the milk from 
a number of cows is mixed in order to approximate a standard article. 

The use of bleached flour in macaroni was brought to our attention 
recently when we found that we were buying bleached macaroni with- 
out knowing it. It may also be dyed to hide adulteration. With 
sugar there is very little danger of adulteration, for that is very well 
standardized, and by buying a good quality of sugar we have no diffi- 
culty. The milk differs. It is a good plan to have the milk examined ; 
find out the bacterial count, percentage of fat, etc. , and have some stand- 
ard which the milk should meet. We have been helped very much in 
our work this year by being able to cooperate with the Russell Sage 
Pathological Department which, through the Cornell Laboratories, is 
testing almost all of our foods. Not only did we find bleached maca- 
roni but upon examination we found that jam contained tartaric acid 
and benzoate of soda. With this discovery we began to test all the foods 
that we could. In some cases we changed the place of purchase; in 
others we found that we were already buying food of good quality. 
We are almost always able to visit the plant from which the food is 
sent. That gives us an opportunity to examine the sanitary condi- 
tion of the plant, and to get some idea of how the work is done. It 
also gives us a chance to get some definite idea of the condition of 
the workers, and that should give us a chance to take a stand for the 
advance of social conditions in this work. We should be particular to 
buy from firms who are paying living wages, furnishing good work- 
ing conditions for their girls or men, and obeying the pure food laws. 
If there were a greater demand, on the part of the buyer, for the ful- 
fillment of the laws they would be carried out much better; and that 
is one of the directions that the social movement is taking today. 

It has been possible to get from certain biscuit and chocolate factories 
the caloric value of the food they are selling. They have furnished that 
data largely on request. If they have not had it, and they usually have 



1 9 14] Buying Lunch Room Supplies 331 

not, they have been willing to get it; and they are becoming more and 
more impressed with the principle of standardizing their goods. That 
is what we want them to do because in that way we are making the 
subject of lunch rooms a scientific question. There must be business 
but there must also be the educational side which must be promoted by 
helping to educate the manufacturers first. 

The care of food in the schools has had much attention. In our 
central kitchens we have required a daily accounting for the quantity 
of food used for the different places. We know the number of children 
fed; we know the amoimt of food which should be used, and by having 
that daily account we are able to know how much of that food is 
actually used, and how much is wasted. We have found that there 
has been noticeable difference since the amounts were noted daily. 
The workers have become more accurate, and that alone is quite 
worth while, even though little is saved. We have a kind of inventory 
which gives us the opportunity of checking up the accuracy of the 
report which also gives us a chance to finish up the accounts for the 
month, taking into account all the food which is left in the kitchen 
and knowing the actual running expenses and cost of food for that 
month. 

W^e have tried to emphasize the educational side in the New York 
school lunches. The students help to distribute the food, and we 
are trying to be very particular that they are as clean as school boys and 
girls can be, and that the food is handled only when they wear white 
aprons and gloves. We are not able to control the choice of the food 
to any great extent, but a supervasor who is interested can very often 
change by suggestion the choice of food that the child is making. We 
have the hot soup which the child must buy first. He can have noth- 
ing from the penny table until he has bought that and it is interesting 
to see how many children, if sent back for bread, will go back without 
protest. On that account we try to train the children who are serving 
the bread to insist upon the others taking it. Very often the teacher 
will station herself at the bread basket and refuse to let anyone go by 
who does not have bread. It is probable that at least four-fifths of 
the New York children take bread with their soup, partly because of 
what we are trying to do, and partly because they like to break the 
bread into the soup. 

In certain sections it has been very hard to introduce food which vre 
consider healthful. For example, ver>' many children do not like 
primes, but by getting one or two to try these and other foods we have 



232 The Journal oj Home Economics [October 

educated a great many children to eat foods which are good for them, 
and which without that efifort would not have been touched. The same 
thing is true of some of our vegetables, and in certain schools, with 
some children, it is true of milk. We have, besides our 17 hot school 
lunches a milk service in 8 schools at ten o'clock. At the close of the 
year there were only 2 or 3 of the children out of 10 kindergartens and 
first grades who were not taking milk every day. Then there is the 
question of the regularity of a hot noon meal which will be carried over 
to a certain extent into the summer. Having had hot lunch at noon 
for nine months out of the year the child is very likely to go home and 
ask for a hot lunch. There is a possibility in that way of educating the 
child and the parents. 

Another way of educating the parents is through our mothers' meet- 
ings and exhibits. We have had exhibits in six schools this year, and 
mothers' meetings in eight, and it is interesting to see the number of 
mothers who have returned to the school and asked how certain foods 
are prepared. Very many have visited the lunch rooms after the 
meeting. The attendance at the lunch has increased after we have had 
a mothers' meeting, and all those results show us that there is some 
value in the educational work; that while we are busy actually serving 
lunches, it is also important to pay some attention to this other side 
which in the end will bear much fruit. 



FOOD AND THE LAW: THE NEED OF UNIFORM 
FOOD LAWS 

Helen Louise Johnson 

No one can deny the beneficence of the object of the body of food 
laws and regulations. The federal food and drug law has a two- 
fold purpose in the preser\'ation of the health of a people, and the pro- 
tection of their pocket-books against deception and fraud. Yet there 
are circumstances, for which the consumers are in part responsible, 
that have compelled an additional increase in the burden of the cost of 
living as a result of food legislation. 

We all know that cleanliness costs. We ought to know that inspec- 
tion of place and employees, sanitation, purity and soundness of ma- 
terial, carefubiess m all details, all cost as well, and we should be ready 
to pay for these things if we demand them. What we forget to count 
in the cost is the expense of enforcing a statute after it is written into our 



1 9 14] Food and the Law 333 

laws. And when, in place of one regulation, or standard, several are 
established to which producers must conform if they are to sell their 
goods throughout the country, then the cost rises to the point of rousing 
vociferous protest, often from the very ones who have been foremost in 
agitating for a supposed reform. 

In 191 2 a well-known la\\yer, James Westervelt by name, published 
a much needed compilation of the American food and dnig laws. This 
comprised both the statutes of the United States and of the several 
states regarding the manufacture, sale and distribution of foods and 
drugs. These were given in as condensed a form as possible, with the 
administrative rules and regulations of the federal and state depart- 
ments. Only the editorial comment required to explain discrepancies 
and make involved points clear was added, yet the material makes a 
closely printed book of 1535 pages, nine by six inches in size. 

In other words, the comparatively brief but comprehensive federal 
pure food and drug law passed in 1906, which applies to articles 
entering into interstate commerce and its products sold in the District 
of Coliunbia and territories of the United States, has, in the different 
states for their own use, been added to, and interpreted differently; 
various standards of so-called purity have been established, and dif- 
ferences in labelling, marking, etc., framed, until, in place of a imiform 
law which might be vigorously enforced throughout the country, we 
have a burden of laws varjdng almost from state to state. To the casual 
observer it would seem that the forty-seven different varieties of food 
regulations had been largely planned for the benefit of the lawyers, who 
might be reduced either in number or income were it not that our Consti- 
tution permits such latitude in state autonomy. It has now become 
necessary for every large manufacturer to have in his employ one law- 
yer or a firm of la\\yers, not to help him evade, but to enable him to 
keep the law. For this of course the consumer pays, as it is one of the 
"overhead charges" of manufacture. 

This lack of uniformity in standards and regulations costs in several 
different ways. It costs the manufacturer unnecessarily to prepare a 
certain article under three or four different labels, and to keep and dis- 
tribute the goods so that a package labelled with letters of certain type 
may not be sold in the state which requires another size or kind. It 
costs the manufacturer in both reputation and money when, by the 
carelessness of some clerk, or packer, or the jobber to whom the goods 
have been assigned, packages prepared according to the laws of one 
state are sent to and sold in another, and he is fined for illegal procedure. 



334 The Journal oj Home Economics [October 

The article may be of exactly the same grade and wholesomeness in 
each case, but it does not comply with the law of the particular state 
into which it was sent by mistake, while it does comply with the law of 
the one in which it was manufactured or for which it was intended. 
Of course this is absurd, but these absurdities exist all over the states, 
unduly adding to our cost of living, and to the complexities of pro- 
duction and distribution. 

To a xtry considerable extent the consuming public knows little 
about the food laws of their own, or any other state. They are wholly 
unaware that 'purity" is not an absolute term, absolute chemical and 
bacteriological purity, if it were possible, being in such cases a very 
different thing from "purity" under the law; and that the "purity" 
of any article in its trade relations depends upon the definition or 
standard established by the law of that particular state, and this may 
or may not conform to the federal standard, or that of neighboring 
states. They do not know that the federal statute, known as the 
food and drugs act of June 30, 1906, has to do only with foods and 
drugs (a) in inter-state commerce; (b) imported or offered for import; 
(c) exported or offered for export; and (d) to their manufacture and 
sale in the District of Colvmibia or any of the territories. 

This distinctly means that whether it be meat, milk, vegetables, 
candy or other food products, any single state can slaughter diseased 
animals, produce dirty, unsafe milk, misbrand cans, poison candy and 
sell all these within its own borders so long as that state permits; and 
the national goverment cannot interfere because its pure food and 
drug law, as stated above, appHes to articles of interstate commerce. 
It can and does interfere with, arrest and fine the producer, prohibit the 
goods, and better still lead and educate him into safer, cleaner, and 
more honest ways when the goods cross the border Une into another 
state. 

The lack of knowledge as to the scope and the Umitations of the 
federal pure food and drug law hav^ led to gross misunderstanding, 
and much unjustified criticism and suspicion of the federal government 
by those who have not taken the time, or the pains, to gain a complete 
understanding of the situation. In some cases open comment has been 
made quite at variance with the actual facts. Sometimes pure gossip 
is indulged in, and "gossip," we know, is idle talk, usually lacking any 
basis of fact. 

Then lack of uniformity in the pure food and drug laws in the 
different states costs in safety for some at the expense of risk for many. 



1 9 14] Food and the Law 335 

Suppose in a certain city there is a good sanitary law regarding the 
milk supply, which is rigidly enforced. The milk comes from sound 
animals, inspected dairies, and is required to be shipped and cared for 
in sanitary ways. This means a satisfactory and probably safe milk 
supply for that place. But all about are dairies which are not per- 
mitted to ship or sell their milk to that city. These laws obtain in this 
one city but not in the neighboring towns nor the whole state. Where 
does milk go which is excluded from sale in this city? The other towns 
and places nearby, not so protected, naturally become the market for 
this poor and possibly unsafe supply. This is always, and will be 
always the case until for the national government and for every state 
uniform state and municipal laws are enacted and enforced; and the 
federal government can do no more about it than it now does, any 
more than you can control the private family life of your neighbor 
across the way. 

Perhaps no other one thing has been more grossly misunderstood 
and misinterpreted than the limitations of the federal meat inspection. 
There is a strong and rigidly enforced national law compelling sanitary 
conditions in the slaughter and packing houses; a careful inspection 
before and after slaughter, and a clean and careful handling of the meat. 
But this only applies to the federally inspected establishments, where 
the product enters into inter-state commerce, and practically few states 
or cities have any corresponding state or municipal regulations. The 
result here is similar to what we have seen in the case of milk. The 
men who have animals which they know will not pass inspection can, 
and, as a matter of fact, do sell them to the uninspected establishments, 
and the local supply of meat in small cities and towns is not up to the 
grade of the larger place where the inspected product is sold. Prob- 
ably no other parts of the country suffer more from unsafe food than 
the little towns which are forced to depend upon a local supply, and are 
wholly improtected by inspection, and without the facilities for pro- 
curing a better supply of meat and milk. 

The lack of uniformity which adds unduly to the cost of food, how- 
ever, is the unnecessary variations in state laws — particularly in regard 
to the label or the branding of goods. To take an instance of another 
sort which shows the confusion under present conditions: In Massa- 
chusetts, baking powder must have securely affixed to the outside of 
every box, can or package containing baking powder or like mixture or 
compound, a label distinctly printed in brevier Gothic capital letters, 



236 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

in the English language, containing the name and residence of the 
manufacturer and the ingredients of the baking powder. 

Illinois requires that the label on any package of food shall be printed 
plainly and legibly in English, and the size of the t>'pe, if not otherwise 
described, shall not be smaller than eight point (brevier) caps, provided 
that in case the size of the package will not permit the use of eight point 
cap type, the size of the type may be reduced. In the case of baking 
powders the common names of all ingredients must be printed on the 
label. 

Kansas asks that the percentages of ingredients should be stated in 
conspicuous letters on the label, and in Kentucky ever>' can and pack- 
age of baking powder must be labeled so as to show clearly the name 
of the acid salt employed, this statement plainly made on the face of 
the label. 

In Wisconsin the can or package of baking powder must have secure- 
ly fixed in a conspicuous place on the side of the package, separate from 
other reading matter, a light colored label printed in black ink in type 
not smaller than eight point bold-faced caps, stating the name and 
address of the manufacturer and the words "This baking powder is 
composed of the following ingredients and none other," immediately 
followed by the common name of each ingredient. 

The Mississippi statute requires that the leavening power of gas 
shall not at any time be less than 8 per cent, which is a law certainly 
extremely difficult, if not almost incapable, of enforcement, and so is 
worse than no attempt at a standard. 

The Louisiana law reads, 

Baking powder must bear a label printed with black ink, Roman letters not less 
than eight point caps on a light background, showing manufacturer's name, place of 
manufacture, and the name of the acid ingredients together with a list of all the 
ingredients. Baking powders must yield at least 8 per cent available carbon dioxide 
and the use of argolite, terra alba and aU other mineral fillers, and any substance 
deemed poisonous or injurious is prohibited. 

And this is not all the variation of demand. 

It should be evident why a firm manufacturing different food prod- 
ucts finds it expensive to have cans and packages properly marked for 
the requirements in each state. If they attempted to put all the re- 
quirements on one label, it would require a can or box of such large 
size that it would be of necessity quite out of proportion to its con- 
tents. It follows therefore, there must be someone employed who 



1914] Food and the Law 337 

knows the legal requirements of the different states and keeps track of 
them, for the public which can induce the passage of the bills not infre- 
quently changes its mind at each legislative session. 

There is no apparent good reason for this variation in label. It 
only makes confusion and expense, as to the varying food standards. 
Standards are facts, not laws. They are the facts upon which the law 
operates, for before a food can be proved to be adulterated or sophis- 
ticated, its deviation from an established standard must be shown. 

The difficulties in this should be plain to every housekeeper. Whose 
bread, pastr}^, preserves, jams, jellies or pickles shall be taken as the 
standard? Yours or Mrs. Smith's? There has been as great a differ- 
ence in defining standards of products in the different states as there 
would be in any community if it were left for the decision of forty -eight 
housekeepers. 

When the standards for purity for food products were proclaimed 
by the Secretary of Agriculture in June, 1906, the principles upon which 
they were based were given. The standards were expressed in the form 
of definitions so framed as to exclude substances not included in the 
definitions. The definitions included, where possible, those qualities 
which make the articles described wholesome for food. 

This has necessitated definitions of food products such for instance 
as meat, sausage, milk, cream, butter, ice-cream, grains, flour, rice, 
pickles, vinegar, catsup, candy and many, many other things. 

Do you know what ice-cream is? Can you define mince-meat? 
What is your idea of a standard sausage? And what do you know about 
condensed milk? Yet you are the buyer of these foods, and no doubt 
you know whether the above mentioned articles, judged by the stand- 
ard you commonly apply — appearance, taste, odor, freedom from visi- 
ble dirt, etc. — are good or not when you purchase or make them. 

The Department of Agriculture says that ice-cream is a frozen prod- 
uct made from cream and sugar, \\\\h. or ^^^thout a natural flavoring, 
and containing not less than 14 per cent of milk fat. This then 
is a standard, a deviation from which means adulteration. Because 
the law is interpreted so as to exclude all substances not men- 
tioned, the federal statute permits only, cream, sugar and a natural 
flavoring. 

You make ice-cream which your family may like, and for which 
recipes have appeared in cook books for two or three generations, with 
milk, corn-starch and 5 per cent of milk fat or cream, but you are 



338 T}ie Journal of Home Economics [October 

serving food to your family and friends which would be adulterated, 
according to the federal law, if sold under conditions where this law 
applies. You are within the law in some states for there are many 
standards for ice-cream under existing laws. 

In Indiana, under the state law, you may use 8 per cent of milk fat, 
provided you have 18 per cent of milk solids, sweeten the cream with 
glucose, and thicken it with gelatin not to exceed the amount of seven- 
tenths of I per cent. If you wish to have your home-made products, 
made for your own use conform to the requirements of the law as you 
are rightly demanding of the producer, it is to be hoped that you are 
good at percentages and fully understand just how much milk and 
cream and of what quality you must use, in order to come within the 
established standard. 

In Iowa I per cent, by weight, of harmless thickener may be added 
to ice-cream, and so in this state the time honored corn-starch is per- 
missible. But the acidity must not exceed 0.3 per cent, and the ice- 
cream must contain 12 per cent, by weight, of milk fat. New 
Hampshire permits not over i per cent of "filler," and requires 14 per 
cent of milk fat. The statute also reads that "no substance other than 
milk, cream, eggs, sugar and some natural flavoring can be used." 
Here one can make Neapolitan as well as Philadelphia ice-cream, and 
it is evidently of a stricter standard than Pennsylvania which requires 
but 8 per cent of milk fat, and permits one half of i per cent of pure 
gelatine, gimi tragacanth, or other vegetable gum. 

Mississippi permits not over three ounces of gelatine to a gallon of 
cream, while Maryland states that 

ice-cream is a frozen product made from cream and other milk substances and sugar, 
with or without natural flavoring, and containing not less than 4 per cent of milk fat, 
to which may be added fresh eggs, and not exceeding i per cent of pure gelatine , gum 
tragacanth or vegetable gum, without statement of such fact, and such goods may be 
called ice-cream provided the required percentage of fat is maintained. 

And Maryland has been noted for its cooks and its foods! 

Remember that these are all standards, or definitions, made in these 
separate states, and legal throughout that special state, but illegal in 
another requiring a different standard; and that not one of them is in 
conformity with the federal statute, nor would the products be permis- 
sible in inter-state commerce. Ice-cream is shipped from state to state 
to a considerable degree. Under date of August 16, the Department of 
Agriculture gives notice of the fining of two shippers of ice-cream, one 



1914I Food and the Law 339 

in West Virginia and another in Ohio, for adulteration, and the govern- 
ment could not have seized the goods if they had not crossed the border 
to another state. 

AH these variations have made so much trouble for the producer and 
added so enormously to the cost for all concerned, that there is now a 
somewhat general movement toward securing a greater uniformity in 
regulation. The Committee on the Purity of Commercial Products 
appointed from the Governor's Commission on Uniform Laws, are 
holding hearings, sifting evidence, gathering facts and compiling data 
on the discrepancies between state laws and their result, which will be 
presented in due time. The National Food Trades Conference formed 
for the purpose of gathering and crystallizing the opinions of the food 
trade have met with and urged upon the Department of Agriculture 
the need for more uniform food laws, offering their cooperation along 
the lines the government may suggest. A third committee for this 
same purpose representing the entire food and drug industry of the 
nation has been created by the Chamber of Commerce of the United 
States. 

In all this it seems fair to say there is evidenced no desire to weaken 
or annul any beneficent or proper legislation. On the contrary there is 
a definite expression of a wish to unify and strengthen existing laws 
and make their enforcement more possible. It may be necessary for 
some one state to sacrifice a less essential point (a question of technical 
detail, for instance) for the sake of the whole. It may be that such a 
step will seem to some a backward one but it is not necessarily so. 
Nevertheless it ought to be plain to anyone who can and will endeavor 
to ascertain how many kinds of things are lawful in one state and not in 
another, that the greatest progress will be made when the states mean 
what they say when they quote, "united we stand, divided we fall." 

Because the women of the country are the buyers of the household 
supplies; because upon their shoulders there continues to be placed 
more and more responsibility as to the larger civic housekeeping; 
because they are the natural conservators and fundamentally concerned 
in the preservation of the health and wealth of the family, it has become 
necessary for them to know many things they have left to the men here- 
tofore. Laws are one of these things, particularly those laws which 
relate to the safeguarding of the food supply. 

The scope of the law and the method of enforcing it are the definite 
points upon which the teachers of Home Economics, and the house- 
keepers of any community should be fully informed. 



340 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

Such questions as the following should be answered before criticism is 
indulged in, or any campaigns of agitation undertaken. 

First, what is your state law regarding these foods? 

Second, is it in conformity \n\h or does it differ from the federal 
statute, or from the statutes of neighboring states? 

Third, are the municipal regulations in your city or town at variance 
or in conformity with state laws, and how does this affect the food 
supply of your particular town or city? 

Fourth, are the laws enforced? 

Fifth, is there money enough appropriated to enforce them? Are 
a sufficient number of inspectors employed to make proper inspection 
possible? How and by whom are these inspectors appointed? Who 
is responsible for their work? 

Those who should be in a position to know, and whose opinion is 
worthy of credence, state that the food laws are being complied with 
very generally throughout the country, and where failure occurs that it 
more frequently arises from ignorance, than from willfulness or a desire 
to evade, or deceive. This is not always true, but it is sufficiently so to 
induce sane, intelligent people to refuse to be misled by the claims of the 
food agitator, who usually has some reason, aside from the good of the 
community, for attack on any special article. 



HOUSEHOLD PROGRESS OF ONE HUNDRED YEARS 

Program for Home Economics Day, 1914-1915 

Benjamin R. Andrews 

Nineteen hundred fourteen, the one-hundredth anniversary of the 
death of Benjamin Thompson, Count Rumford, 1 753-1 814, the first 
modern scientist to study the problems of the household, makes appro- 
priate a review of progress from the Colonial household of Rumford's 
time to the modern household. Rumford's own contribution to prog- 
ress was, first, the application of the method of scientific study to 
household problems which has issued today in Home Economics edu- 
cation, and second, a study of particular household problems, as the 
application of heat to food materials, the improvement of ranges and 
utensils for baking, broiling, and roasting, the principles of nutrition 
and economy of food, methods of heating, lighting and ventilating 
dwellings, the hygiene and aesthetics of clothing, and the organization 



1 9 14] Household Progress 341 

and administration of public institutions, such as school lunches and 
institutions for the poor. 

Progress in the household, beginning with Rumford, and promoted 
by Catherine Beecher, Edward L. Youmans, W. O. Atwater, Ellen H. 
Richards, and present day scientific workers, may be represented by a 
suitable program in schools, colleges, and clubs, upon December 3, 1914, 
the birthday of Ellen Richards or upon some other convenient occasion 
later in the year to be chosen and designated as "Home Economics 
Day." In such a program some of the following suggestions may be 
followed: 

A. Founders of Home Economics, A single talk or a series by dif- 
ferent persons; life sketches ofXenophon, Rumford, Catherine E. 
Beecher, and Ellen H. Richards maybe had, suitable for a program (ten 
cents for four), and a special biographical sketch of Count Rumford (five 
cents) ; address, American Home Economics Association, Roland Park, 
Baltimore, Md. The Association will also furnish portraits of Rum- 
ford, Catherine Beecher, and Ellen Richards, suitable for wall decora- 
tion and framing, at ten cents each, and the "Life of Ellen H. Rich- 
ards" by C. L. Hunt at $1.62 post paid. 

B. Progress of the Household, illustrated by tableaux, with or with- 
out dialogues, costumes, simple scener\', etc., or by essay, referring to 
changes in various fields since Rumford's time. Of the following sug- 
gested topics, the first only is outlined in detail, but treatment of other 
topics can readily be devised. 

(i) "The Household Budget of the Colonial Home and the Alodern 
Home." Let four girls present the Colonial Budget. Enter No. I, 
dressed in IMartha Washington costume, and bearing a placard 
or legend, "The Budget of the Colonial Household;" she beckons in 
after her the three others, successively, dressed in calico and 
each one as she enters reads to the audience the legend she carries; 
No. 2, with a legend, "The Colonial House," and carr^'ing a picture of a 
log cabin, or a model on a tray, with the legend, "The Forest gave Logs 
for Our Houses — No Rent Bills;" No. 3 — "Food of the Colonial Home," 
with a tray containing bacon or salt pork, corn meal, potatoes, bread, 
and the legend, "The Homestead Produced the Food — No Food 
Bills;" No. 4. — Colonial Clothing," with a picture of a spinning wheel 
or loom or both, models, or possibly samples of homespun cloth, or 
skins for clothing, with legend, "Clothing from Nature's Materials — 
No Dressmakers' Bills." The four representing "Colonial Budget" 
now take a position at one side of the platform and watch the 
"Modern Budget" group come on. 



2^2 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

For the Modern Budget— six girls: No. I, as leader with legend, 
"Modern Family Budget of Ellen Richards," introducing the others- 
No. 2, "Shelter" with a picture of a modern house or a toy house on 
tray, with legend, "For rent — 20 per cent of family income;" No. 3, 
girl with sign "Food," with a tray with modern package foods, with 
legend, "For food — 25 per cent of family income;" No. 4, "Clothing," 
leading in a dressform on wheels, with a dress upon it and the picture 
of a head and hat added, with a legend, " For clothing— 15 per c -nt of 
family income;" No. 5, "Operating Expenses," dressed as a house- 
worker with apron and cap, and fastened to her apron, dish-mop, 
egg-beater, baking dish, etc. to indicate different kinds of housework, 
and bearing a legend, " For Household Operation — 15 per cent of in- 
come;" No. 6, with legend, " For Higher Life Expenditures — 25 per cent 
of income," with symbols, fastened to her dress or carried — magazines, 
sheet music, book, pictures of steamship or camp life, tennis racket, a 
large book plainly marked, " Savings Bank Book," pictures of a church, 
etc. Each of the six representatives of the Modern Budget repeat their 
placards to the audience as they come in and form opposite the repre- 
sentatives of the Colonial Budget; then both groups unite in singing 
the following : 

A SONG OF THE OLD HOME AND THE NEW 

(Tune, "Auld Lang Syne") 

1 Should old-time homes be clean forgot 

And never brought to mind? 
The early days, the simple lot 
And hearths of auld lang syne? 

Refrain: Of mother's mother's days we sing 

And future days to be, 
Till homes like theirs, of joy and love, 
Stand forth from sea to sea. 

2 They felled the trees in forest glades 

Their simple homes to rear. 
From guarded flocks and soil well-tilled 
Came food their board to cheer. 



Refrain: 



Refrain: 



We sing this day the hundred years 

Of progress for the home- 
As toils grow less, may joys grow more 
As future changes come ! 



1 9 14] Household Progress 343 

(2) Other historical comparisons may be worked out, as for example: 
The Colonial Kitchen and the Modern Kitchen — the fire place vs. 
the modern range, utensils, etc. ; Colonial costume and that of today 
(see Earle's "Two Centuries of American Costume"); The Colonial 
girl and the girl of today, her school, sports, dress, books, amusements; 
the Colonial woman and the woman of today, home duties, social life, 
ci\nc responsibilities. 

C. Plays and "playlets" bearing on the home betterment idea 
would furnish an appropriate celebration of Home Economics Da}\ 
A play emphasizing the pure-food idea, written at the Warrensburg, 
Mo. State Normal School and elaborated somewhat at Teachers 
College, N. Y. and entitled "Prince Caloric and Princess Pieta," 
and laid in the Kingdom of Purefooda, with such familiar characters as 
King Diet, Dr. Nutrition, the Court Digestor and other worthies, may 
be secured from the American Home Economic Association, Roland 
Park, Baltimore, Md., at 25 cents, ten copies for $1; it will be avail- 
able about November i , for use in schools, colleges and clubs. The 
use of the play may be found an effective way of making contributions 
to the Richards Home Economics Memorial Fund. 

Contributions to the Richards Home Economics Memorial Fund. 
Schools and clubs are invited to make contributions to the Ellen 
Richards Memorial Fund in connection with Home Economics Day. 
Contributions of indi\"iduals may be combined or a sum may be 
raised through an admission fee to the entertainment or obser\'ance, or 
a candy sale or other money-making enterprises may be carried out in 
connection with the obser^-ance. The Richards fund is the endowment 
fund of the American Home Economics Association; it is invested in 
charge of a board of trustees and the income alone is used; this has 
already made possible the publication of two important studies the 
"Syllabus of Home Economics" and the "Report of the Household Aid 
Committee." It is also helping to support a field secretary of the 
Association who will visit colleges, schools, and clubs in the interest of 
the Home Economics movement. Address of Richards ^Memorial 
Committee: American Home Economics Association, Roland Park, 
Baltimore, Md. 



344 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

COUNT RUMFORD. SCIENTIST AND PHILANTHROPIST 

Arthur Gordon Webster 

Professor of Physics at Clark University, Secretary of the Rumford Committee, 
American Academy of Arts and Sciences 

Rare indeed are those men fortunate enough to have left monu- 
ments in three countries sufficient to keep their memory green for 
a century. At first sight it would seem that such a description could 
apply only to the great Franklin, who, like the subject of our sketch, 
achieved fame in America, England, and France as statesman, philos- 
opher, and common sense philanthropist. And yet in the little \'illage 
of Woburn, twelve miles from Boston, was born on March 23, 1753, 
a man whose death just one hundred years ago has, within two months, 
been celebrated in the city of Munich by representatives of the mu- 
nicipaUty, of royalty, and of science. As a bitter sequel to this sol- 
emn anniversary comes the news that after the declaration of war 
by England it was necessary, in order to prevent the mob from de- 
stroying the fine bronze statue erected to Rumford in the Maximilian- 
strasse, to attach to it a notice that he was not an Englishman, but 
was born in Massachusetts. 

Benjamin Thompson was born of a good old New England family 
in the comfortable farm-house belonging to his grandfather, Capt. 
Ebenezer Thompson. The house is still standing and maintained by 
a society formed for that purpose. When Thompson was twenty 
months old, his father died, lea\-ing him dependent upon his grand- 
father until his mother married a second time, after which the resi- 
dence in Woburn was continued. Young Thompson received the 
usual grammar-school education, that is, reading, writing, and arith- 
metic, but he early showed a Hking for mathematics and an ingenu- 
ity with regard to mechanical matters and the workings of nature 
that gave promise of his later scientific distinction. It is not surpris- 
ing that these tastes were not appreciated in the village, and that he 
had the name of being idle and listless. At any rate his guardians 
ga\-e up attempting to make him a farmer, and apprenticed him, at 
the age of eleven, to a store-keeper in Salem, where he attracted atten- 
tion as a bright, well-mannered young person. From a minister with 
whom he there came in contact, he learned algebra, geometry, and 
astronomy. At the same time he began a correspondence on scientific 
subjects with his school friend, subsequently Col. Loammi Baldwin, 



1 914] Count Rumford 345 

with whom he maintained a life-long friendship never broken by the 
fact that they were on opposite sides in the war. While still an ap- 
prentice, Thompson attended lectures given by Professor Winthrop 
at Harvard College, walking with his friend Baldwin the eight miles 
between Woburn and Cambridge. It was in remembrance of the 
interest in natural philosophy thus acquired that he afterwards 
founded the Rumford professorship at Harvard. 

At the age of nineteen Thompson went as a teacher to Concord, 
New Hampshire. He was then described by his friend Baldwin as of 
a fine manly make and figure, nearly six feet in height, of handsome 
features, bright blue eyes, and dark auburn hair. He had the man- 
ners and polish of a gentleman, with fascinating ways, and an abihty 
to make himself agreeable. These personal advantages had a great 
influence on his future, beginning by procuring him a wife in Concord, 
a rich widow, fourteen years his senior, who first provided him with 
worldly advantages, while perhaps at the same time contributing to 
his expatriation. For it was through her that he was presented to 
Governor Went\vorth, who attracted by Thompson's evident promise, 
appointed him Major in the Second Provincial Regiment of New 
Hampshire. This advancement, when he was not yet of legal age, 
cost Thompson much jealousy on the part of the other officers, and 
combined with the intimacy which he soon enjoyed with the British 
governing officials, occasioned the suspicion in which he was held by 
the patriotic enthusiasts in the cause of American liberty. 

Although there is no evidence that Thompson was not in sympathy 
with the patriot cause, he suffered much humiliation and eventually 
demanded a pubHc trial, which resulted in an acquittal of a rather 
inconclusive nature. Finally his house was surrounded by a mob, to 
avoid which Major Thompson thought it prudent to escape secretly 
to Boston, leaving his wife and infant daughter to be taken care of 
by their relatives. It must be added with regret that he never made 
any effort to see his wife again, and that he did not see his daughter 
for more than twenty years. 

Let us now pass over hastily the most disagreeable things that are 
to be said about Thompson. When the British were compelled to 
evacuate Boston, Thompson went aboard one of their ships, and was 
the official bearer of the news of the disaster to London. This flight 
caused his estate in America to be confiscated, and him to be looked 
upon as a traitor. Arrived in London, he attracted the favorable 
attention of Lord George Germaine, and was made an under secretary 



346 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

of state, where he had the oversight of recruiting, equipping, transport- 
ing, and victualing the British forces. While in London he showed 
much kindness to American loyalist refugees. Tired of the misman- 
agement which he saw in London, Thompson concluded to seek active 
ser\nce, and went out to America to command a regiment of cavalry 
which he had raised among the loyalists. On the voyage over he 
made a number of experiments on gunnery which were the forerunners 
of his subsequent experiments on the subject of heat. Thompson 
was efficient in his short military career in America, but the war 
came to an end without permitting of much active service. He passed 
the winter on Long Island, with his regiment of dragoons, and re- 
ceived official compliments from his superiors. Returning to England 
in 1783, Thompson retired upon half pay with the rank of colonel. 

And now begins the interesting portion of Thompson's life, for, in 
the possession of leisure and means, he determined to travel upon the 
continent, and received the permission of the King, 

At Munich Thompson rose to the height of his powers, and attained 
world-wide celebrity as the right-hand man of the Elector of Bavaria. 
After returning to London to secure the King's permission to take 
service in Bavaria, he received the honor of knighthood on February 
27,, 1784. During eleven years he now devoted himself assiduously 
to the service of the Elector of Bavaria. Beginning as colonel of a 
cavalry regiment, and general aide-de-camp, Sir Benjamin became 
major-general and minister of war, minister of police, and chamber- 
lain of the Elector. It was in these several capacities that he was 
able to reform the army, and at the same time, by means of that 
great common sense and genius for order which were his leading char- 
acteristics, to institute those social reforms that constituted him a 
pioneer in scientific philanthropy. Bavaria was then cursed with a 
standing army, recruited by continual conscription, which demoral- 
ized the rural population, and made thriftlessness, laziness, and crime 
the great evils of the country. Beggary was rampant, and agriculture 
was at a low ebb. To this Thompson determined to put an end. 
As he himself says, he determined "to make soldiers citizens and citi- 
zens soldiers." The situation of the soldier was to be made as agree- 
able as possible, his pay increased, and his clothing made comfortable 
and convenient. His quarters and barracks were to be made clean 
and attractive. Schools were to be established in all the regiments, 
in which the soldiers and their children were to be taught reading, 
writing and arithmetic. With an economy worthy of Franklin, 



1914] Count Rumford 347 

Thompson adds that the paper that had served one use might serve 
afterwards for making cartridges. But even more important, Thomp- 
son established houses of industry, in which the soldiers, furnished with 
raw materials, might by their own industry make all sorts of manu- 
factured articles. They were also put to work as laborers in all sorts 
of public works, making roads, draining marshes, and repairing river 
banks. Many of the soldiers were given leave of absence that they 
might mingle with the peasants near their homes, and by their example 
encourage agriculture and manufacturing. 

Thompson's endeavors to abolish beggary were carried out in the 
most careful manner, after long preparation. Cavalry patrols were 
sent throughout the country, forbidden to ask for victuals or forage, 
and ordered to stop the thieving and begging. General subscriptions 
were taken up, and so great was the confidence in Thompson's charac- 
ter and methods that large sums were forthcoming and all classes 
preferred to subscribe rather than pay the prevalent ta.x to the beg- 
gars. Thompson converted a disused manufactory into a workhouse, 
with kitchen, refectory and bakehouse, with workshops for carpenters, 
blacksmiths, turners and other mechanics, besides halls for spinners, 
weavers, and all sorts of textile artisans. Here the former beggars 
were set to work, and the workhouse furnished clothing for the troops 
at a considerable profit to the state. At Mannheim a similar estab- 
lishment was carried on. Thompson related his experience in poor 
relief in a number of essays, in which the subject was treated in all 
its aspects. 

Besides the creation of industry where it had not previously existed, 
Thompson devoted much attention to the economical preparation of 
food, and the study of its nutritive values. The utilization of heat 
was, from first to last, one of his most absorbing interests, and the 
results of this study are of importance both to the physicist and to 
the domestic scientist. He elaborates the method of the production 
of nourishing soup at a low cost, and urges the adoption of the potato 
as food, then unknown in that part of the world. In one of his 
essays we find a treatment of the preparation of the coffee berry for 
drinking purposes. The construction of kitchens was minutely gone 
into, and many forms of range, stove, and cooking vessels invented. 
These were described in a series of essays and papers contributed to 
the London Royal Society, of which Thompson was early elected a 
member. 

All these activities could not fail to bring Thompson much notice 



2^8 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

and procure him many honors and friends. By request of the Elector 
the King of Poland conferred upon him the order of St. Stanislaus. 
In a journey to Berlin in 1787 he was made a member of the Academy 
of Sciences of Berlin, later also of those of JSIunich and IMannheim. In 
1 791 the Elector raised him to the rank of a Count of the Holy Roman 
Empire, with the order of the WTiite Eagle. As a title he took the 
name of the New England village of Rimiford, now Concord, New 
Hampshire, where his good fortune may be said to have begun. We 
shall now speak of him by the title of Count Rumford, by which he 
is generally known. 

One of Rumford's chief creations, which remains to this day, is the 
great park in Munich known as the English Garden. This had been 
a neglected forest region, which Rumford surrounded with a road six 
miles in circuit, on which were erected cottages and farm-houses for 
laborers, while walks, promenades, a small lake, and all sorts of at- 
tractions made it a favorable place of amusement for the upper classes 
and the people as well. All his life Rumford thought very highly 
of the aristocracy, but was continually solicitous in improving the 
conditions of the lower classes. The appreciation with which his 
work was received may be inferred from the marble monument placed 
in the English Garden during his hfetime, bearing his bust and this 
inscription: 

Pause, stroller. Gratitude strengthens enjovTnent. A creative hint of Charles 
Theodore, seized upon with genius, feeling and love by Rumford the friend of man- 
kind, has ennobled this once waste spot into what thou now seest. 

At a later date a fine bronze statue was erected to Rumford in one 
of the principal streets of Mimich. 

His exacting labors at Munich finally undermined his health, and 
he was obliged to \'isit Italy for recuperation. He then took the 
opportunity of caxrying out his ideas in various Italian cities. As a 
further mark of the esteem in which he was held, we are told that 
during his illness thousands of the poor of Munich passed his door in 
order to offer prayers in the cathedral for his return to health. This 
in spite of Rumford's being a devout Protestant. 

After eleven years of arduous life at Munich, Rimaford returned to 
London, largely for the purpose of publishing his essays. Besides 
this he had in view another object, namely, the foundation of an 
institution for the extension of science among the people, especially 
the advancement of the application of science to daily life. In this 



1 9 14] Count Rumford 349 

undertaking we see the peculiar combination of traits in Rumford 
which amount to a sort of snobbishness in his treatment of the great, 
together with his sincere desire to serve the poor. Thus after address- 
ing an elaborate prospectus to the aristocratic public he proceeds to 
establish a class of founders at fifty guineas each, with annual sub- 
scribers at two guineas, and upon the committees and boards of man- 
agers he obtains the names of a number of dukes, earls, and other 
persons of title. 

Rumford had been sent by the Elector as English ambassador to 
London, but he could not be received in that capacity since he was 
an English subject. This was to him a great disappointment, which 
was however mitigated by the success which attended him in his 
foundation of what was entitled the Royal Institution of Great Bri- 
tain. The charter of the Institution was granted in January, 1800, 
and it was organized in March of the same year. It has had during 
more than a century a most honorable career, and is still one of the 
most interesting establishments in London. The prospectus, as 
written by Rumford, was exceedingly original and broad in scope. 
He urges that it has been by the aid of machinery in procuring the 
necessaries, the comforts, and the elegances of hfe, that all improve- 
ments in the condition of mankind from the state of barbarism to 
cultivation and civiHzation have been produced. It was in the elab- 
oration of this text that the Institution was to find its work. Lectiu-es 
and researches in chemistry and natural philosophy were to be insti- 
tuted, always with a practical result in view, and museums of all sorts 
of inventions were to be maintained. All the arts were to be fostered 
and improved by scientific means. Above all the phenomena of light 
and heat, and their practical applications in cooking, illumination, 
and all domestic arts were to be made prominent. Rumford was 
asked to be the superintendent of the work of the Institution and 
took up his residence in the dignified building which still houses it 
in Albemarle Street. 

For several years Rumford was the chief inspiration of the Royal 
Institution, but differences began to multiply between him and his 
fellow managers, resulting finally in his returning to Bavaria. As a 
matter of fact Rumford's projects were too elaborate to be carried out 
by an establishment with the resources of the Institution, and much of 
its character in popularizing science was given up. Still what it lost 
in practical utility it gained in the advancement of pure science. 
The professorships of the Royal Institution have been held by some 



350 The Jotirnal oj Home Economics [October 

of the very leading lights of British science. Sir Humphrey Davy was 
engaged by Rumford himself, and there made some of the most im- 
portant discoveries in the new science of chemistry, while Dr. Thomas 
Young was one of the leading physicists of his time, and one of the 
two most important contributors to the wave theory of light. But 
the crowning glory of the Royal Institution was the incumbency of 
Michael Faraday, the prince of experimental physicists, whose dis- 
coveries in electricity and magnetism made at the Royal Institution 
are among the chief scientific events of the nineteenth century'. If 
Rumford could have lived to see these magnificent discoveries he would 
have felt reconciled to the disappointment of the moment. 

Rumford's chief work was completed at an unusually early age, 
and unfortunately his last years were not his happiest. From London 
and Munich he went to Paris, where he fell in love with a remark- 
able woman, the widow of the great chemist Lavoisier, whose head 
had fallen in the Revolution. After an acquaintance of several 
years, these two distinguished persons determined upon marriage, 
and after a brief but brilliant career together realized their mis- 
take and separated. Rumford retired to a house at Auteuil 
where he passed his last days in bitterness, with only the company 
of his daughter Sally, whom he had summoned for a second time from 
America. He died August 21, 1814, and was buried at Auteuil. 

Before describing Rumford's other benefactions to science, which 
must ever keep his name remembered, let us take a very brief glance 
at his own scientific investigations. In connection with light we may 
mention his invention of a simple and effective photometer, for com- 
paring the intensities of two sources of illumination by the process 
of matching two shadows cast by them. He also invented an im- 
proved lamp, but most of his work was devoted to heat. We find 
long essays on the construction of improved chimneys and fire-places 
to avoid smoking, and economize fuel. Several hundred chimneys 
were built over on his plan in London alone, and he gives names of 
many of the nobility who had adopted them. There is also much 
space devoted to improved culinary utensils, such as roasters, stew- 
pans of metal and porcelain, including the now familiar porcelain- 
lined kettles. But the most important of his investigations to the 
physicist is his examination into the nature of heat, and his sugges- 
tion that heat is not a material substance, but is due to motion. He 
thus ranks as one of the very earliest founders of the modem mechani- 
cal theory of heat. Observang the amount of heat generated in bor- 



1 91 4] Count Rumford 351 

ing a cannon in the Arsenal in Munich, he made the first quantitative 
measurements by allowing water to take up the heat produced by a 
blunt boring-tool rotated by horse-power, and measuring the rise of 
temperature. If we examine the apparatus developed as a conse- 
quence of this experiment we are struck, with its similarity to that 
af tenvard used by Joule in his determination of the mechanical equiva- 
lent of heat, and in fact from Rumford's figures we obtain a value of 
this quantity not very different from what we now consider the true 
value. When we consider the state of science in his time we may 
certainly award Rumford a high place among physicists of his day, 
not in the least inferior to our celebrated American philosopher 
Franklin. In fact the genius of these two has many and marked sim- 
ilarities, though Franklin was as great a democrat as Riunford was 
an aristocrat. Strangely enough the two men seem never to have 
mentioned each other. 

In conclusion we will speak of Rumford's gifts to the Royal Society 
of London and to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, of 
both of which he was a member. In each case this was the gift of 
five thousand dollars in the funds of the respective countries, for the 
foundation of a 

premium to the author of the most important discovery, or useful improvement 
which shall be made or published by printing, or in any way made known to the 
public, in any part of Europe (or America respectively) during the preceding two 
years, on heat or on light; the preference always being given to such discoveries 
as shall in the opinion of the President and Council, tend most to promote the good 
of mankind. 

In both countries the award of the Rumford Premium, in the form of 
two identical medals of gold and silver in each case, has become a 
much appreciated honor. The Royal Society paid Rumford the deli- 
cate compHment of making the first award to him, and it has been 
successively awarded to some of the greatest physicists in all the 
countries of Europe, including Fresnel, Faraday, Regnault and Clerk- 
Maxwell. In America it proved impossible to carry out Rumford's 
wishes literally, as not sufficient discoveries were made to use up the 
income, so that the fimd increased by a large amount. The courts 
were finally appealed to, and after a special act of the Massachusetts' 
Legislature the Supreme Court of the state was authorized to settle 
the matter. This was done by allowing the Academy to use the in- 
come in grants for the promotion of research as well as for the award 



or2 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

of the medals. This plan now works ^vith great satisfaction. The 
fund has now grown to more than fifty thousand dollars, and some- 
thing like two thousand dollars is annually appropriated to aid re- 
searches in light and heat/ with very satisfactory results. The medal 
is awarded for scientific results, as well as for practical applications 
such as Rumford had in mind. Among the well-known names of the 
latter sort who have received the award are those of Edison, Brush, 
and Elihu Thomson, while the scientific work of such physicists as 
Michelson, Hale, and R. W. Wood may give an idea of the quality 
attached to this award. 

Finally, at his death Rumford left an annuity and the reversion of 
his whole estate to Harvard University, for the foundation of a pro- 
fessorship for teaching "the utility of the physical and mathematical 
sciences for the improvement of the useful arts, and for the extension 
of the industry, prosperity, happiness and well-being of Society." 

This professorship has been held by many distinguished incum- 
bents, its last holder being Prof. John Trowbridge, at present holder 
of the dignified oflace of President of the American Academy of Arts 
and Sciences in Boston. 

It is evident that the works of such a man as Rumford are his best 
epitaph. 

FORMAL METHODS FOR PREPARING AND SERVING 

FOOD^ 

The author of the book from which the following data are taken 
was chef to King William and Queen Augusta of Prussia, and this 
work contains a large amount of information regarding the prepa- 
ration and ser\'ing of food in formal style. In the introduction to 
volume I is found a comparison of the French and Russian systems 
of dinner service. These two make the basis of all formal service, in- 
cluding that commonly known as the English. Dinners a la franjaise 
are really composed of three ser\dces or courses, the first two being 
served from the kitchen, the third from the pantry or "office. " The 

iln 1890, Mrs. Richards was granted $300 from the Rumford Fund for the 
study of the "Application of Heat to Food Materials." Mrs. Richards and 
Mrs. Abel used this grant in early experiments in the New England Kitchen, 
Boston. 

* A treatise by Bernard Dubois, entitled "La Cuisine Classique," published in 
Paris in 1874. 



1 914] Preparing and Serving Food 353 

first course or service includes all the dishes from the soups to the 
roasts. The second begins with the roasts and includes everything 
through the sweet entre-mets. The third is the desert and includes 
ices, cakes, fruits, cheese, etc. All the dishes for each course or serv- 
ice are set on the table at one time, those for the first service being put 
in place before the guests take their seats. When all the dishes of 
one service or course have been passed and removed, all those of the 
second are brought in and set upon the table and then passed one by 
one to the guests. The great difficulty with this service is, of course, 
that of keeping all the dishes of one course hot until they are required, 
and to avoid this it was, at the time of the writing of this book, con- 
sidered allowable to pass certain ones direct from the kitchen, such 
being called plats volants. 

In the Russian service, everything is passed from the kitchen or pantry , 
or, in the case of meats which must be carved, from a side table. The 
distinct advantage, of course, is that all dishes thus reach the guests 
hot. The disadvantage was supposed to be that the table looked bare 
and the guests did not know what dishes each course would provide. 
The former disadvantage is obviated by putting a few hors d'oeuvres 
and possibly some cold dishes from the dessert course on the table. 
The second disadvantage is obviated by providing menus for the 
guests. 

In comparing this description of formal European usage with that 
with which we are familiar in the United States, we find that the Rus- 
sian form is followed for both formal and semi-formal dinners, and 
that symmetrical balancing of different parts of the menu is rarely at- 
tempted. Methods of serving home dinners have been influenced 
more by practical convenience than by rigid form.ality, nevertheless it 
is interesting to see that they represent a cross between the French and 
Russian systems, the French idea of placing the food on the table before 
serving predominating when the family does most of the waiting on 
table, and the Russian practice of serving from the kitchen coming to 
the fore when a waitress is employed. 



EDITORIALS 

The Cleveland Meeting. This number of the Journ.\l contains 
the secretaty's report of the Cleveland meeting and in succeeding num- 
bers we shall give our readers some of the excellent papers there pre- 
sented. 

To bring out the most important points of the meeting we have asked 
expression of opinion from its presiding ofl&cer, from an earlier president 
of the Association who helped in its very formation, and from one of 
our newest members who foimd the meeting ver}^ inspiring after years 
of life on the other side of the world. 

All who attended the meeting at Cleveland came away, not only 
with memories of the most cordial hospitality and a delightful week, 
but also -w-ith new inspiration for their work. Nothing could have sur- 
passed the untiring devotion of the Cleveland hosts to all their guests. 
The addresses were thoughtful and suggestive, the Round Tables 
full of vigorous debate, and the personal conferences stimulating and 
refreshing. The attendance was the largest in our history and the 
company remained until the end of the session. We extended grateful 
thanks to our hosts and to all who had labored to make the meeting 
a success. The president of the past two terms remembers with appre- 
ciation the kindly and efl&cient cooperation of her associates. The new 
president is just the one for the place and is sure to carry our banners 
forward to the "best meeting yet." Ever}- one cordially welcomes Miss 
Van Rensselaer to her natural leadership in the Association. 

Probably the event of the meeting was the unanimous adoption of 
the new constitution. While it does not differ very much from the 
early constitution, it is more explicit, and it definitely places upon the 
shoulders of the Council two large responsibihties. One is the keeping 
in trust of moneys and other property acquired by the Association — 
thus giving a permanent organization, capable of receiving and caring 
for fimds; the other is the responsibility of choosing from its own body a 
president of the Association. Both of these changes were seen to be 
steps in oiu: healthy development. If the Association is to be perma- 
nent, if it is eventually to have a center where its property and records 

354 



1 9 14] Editorials 355 

may be housed, if it is to employ a paid secretary, if it is to continue to 
publish a representative magazine, these changes were essential. 
The meetings owe much of their importance to the very fact that they 
are occasional and peripatetic; they stir up enthusiasm, now in Ithaca, 
now in Cleveland, now in Seattle and San Francisco; they give oppor- 
tunity for the conference of workers and the acquiring of a common 
vmderstanding; they may be one color today and another tomorrow, 
according to the place where the meeting is held. But the steady, 
permanent work of the Association, expressed in the Journal and in 
continuing propaganda, must be carried on by a comparatively stable 
body. This responsibility rests now with the Council, which will 
always represent the experts in Home Economics who have been en- 
trusted with this responsibility and elected by the general group. 

All who have followed the fortunes of the Association feel that this 
places it upon a very soUd foundation and that the Cleveland meeting 
marks a mile-stone in our forward movement. 

Another marked feature of the meeting was the readiness with which 
five hundred dollars was raised toward the salary of the paid secretary, 
and the generous response of the entire body to the appeals made by 
Dr. Andrews. 

The wTiter hopes that each succeeding year will carry the Associa- 
tion forward, and she counts upon the cordial cooperation of the entire 
Association with the new president in her work. 

Saraii Louise Arnold. 

If I were to say what seemed to me to be the most important thing 
about the Cleveland meeting it would be that for the first time the 
American Home Economics Association has achieved an organized 
working basis, a plan of procedure that may be expected to really bring 
results. This may not sound well in print, but everyone ought to 
know that a constitution which is good enough to set up housekeeping 
with, needs in the course of years a thorough overhauling to make it 
one that can be really lived with. That work has been done and well 
done and the new constitution is a great credit to those who labored 
over it. 

The personnel of the Conference proved that the cause attracts strong 
men and women who are seeking sane and feasible methods of improving 
the home, the institution and the school and so helping in the world's 
work along very important lines. 

Isabel Bevier. 



356 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

The full value of an Association meeting is not always recognized by 
those closest to it — the ones who always attend and frequently parti- 
cipate. Perhaps those who gain the most from it, are those who have 
been struggling against either geographic isolation or the equally bind- 
ing limitations of highly speciaUzed tasks. The individual problem 
finds an easier solution where we are in touch with others and we gain 
a gUmpse of the larger vision and feel that we are together strength- 
ening the supports of existing homes a:i J la}dng surer foundations for 
homes that are to be. 

If this getting together from east and west, north and south of our 
own countr}^ is good, since it helps to obliterate not only personal 
provincialism but also that of "our section" and "your section," will 
not an international congress be better yet? 

We of the United States ma}^ easily underestimate the progress 
being made in both Europe and the Orient. In Australia, in China, 
Japan and our own Philippines, the study of Home Economics is being 
advanced by church or state, so that valuable contributions from these 
portions of the world may be anticipated. Domestic science and sew- 
ing classes, model homes, day nurseries, sanitary towns and villages are 
circling the entire globe. WTiy not hear such reports at San Francisco? 

Anna Merritt East. 

The Journal a Cooperative Magazine. Do our readers reaUze that 
our Journal is in reality a cooperative enterprise? 

It is owned, edited and published by its readers through the Ameri- 
can Home Economics Association. As soon as it can reach the point 
where the income from subscriptions will pay not only the mechanics of 
printing but the cost of maintaining the editorial office, that moment 
begins the accumulation of a fimd to be used in promoting Home Eco- 
nomics education and interests along the lines that may be indicated 
by the Council. That vnl\ be a proud and happy moment for the 
editors. 

Who should subscribe for the Journal? First, every teacher of 
Home Economics in this countr\^ and Canada. There are easily five 
times as many teachers in those branches as when the Association was 
started six years ago. The number will be still further increased by the 
requirements for extension teaching made possible by the Smith-Lever 
Bill. These teachers all need a professional journal. They cannot do 
without it and keep up to the times. W^ill ever>' teacher now a sub- 
scriber resolve to bring this perhaps unrecognized need to every 



1 9 14] Editorials 357 

teacher of her acquaintance? And if you have an ambitious student 
who should be put already in touch with the whole field of Home Eco- 
nomics, claim for her the offer to students which follows: 

To students of any regular course in Home Economics we make 
the offer of the Journal at half price for one year. This is an intro- 
ductory cost price and is not renewable. 

Second. Every progressive housewife should take the Journal and 
thus respond to the attempt to solve her practical daily problems 
according to the latest proved knowledge, to give her the information 
that will help her preserve the health of her family and to make the 
utmost of her time and money. 

Those who are already subscribers can help us to find others if they 
will. Within a year we ought to have 10,000 readers. And teachers, 
students and housewives can help us by sending notes of their work 
and reading, by suggesting needed articles and by forwarding the 
names of those who can contribute them. 

Extension of the Work of the Nutrition Investigations of the Unit- 
ed States Department of Agriculture. No department of the general 
government is so familiar to our readers as is this division of the Office 
of Experiment Stations, the work of which has been for years under the 
direction of Dr. C. F. Langworthy. Teachers and housekeepers have 
availed themselves of the large number of free Farmers' Bulletins on 
foods, nutrition and other household topics, which this division has 
issued and they have always received from it full and courteous answers 
to their questions on a variety of subjects. 

It is therefore with great satisfaction that they will learn of the sub- 
stantial increase in the appropriation voted to this division at the last 
session of Congress, in order to extend the work and broaden its scope 
to include the study of clothing and household equipment as well as 
food. In the words of the agricultural bill it is now made possible to 
" investigate the relative utility and economy of agricultural products 
for food, clothing and other uses in the home, with special suggestions 
or plans and methods for the more effective utilization of such products 
for these purposes." 

We understand that it is proposed by the Office of Experiment Sta- 
tions to continue and extend the studies of foods with reference to 
their nutritive value and their economical use in the home, studying 
both popular and more technical problems. In addition to this, it is 
proposed to make similar studies of the use of textiles for clothing and 



^jS The Journal of Home Economics [October 

other purposes in the home, of household equipment, and of the labor 
involved in various household tasks. In the case of clothing and 
household equipment such questions will be studied as the relative 
durability, economy and suitability of different materials for clothing, 
the protective power of different kinds of fabrics, the relative value and 
efficiency of household equipment and other materials for household 
purposes, and the relative ease and efficiency of different methods of 
performing household labor. 

Popular summaries of the same general character as those that have 
proved so useful in the case of food are to be issued on the subjects of 
clothing, and household equipment, labor and management. Teachers 
and students may also expect more technical publications which will 
give experimental details and results. This is good news. The house- 
keeper on the farm and in the town will be provided with valuable 
information based on the results of experiments, observations and 
experience which will help her to more effectively solve the problems 
arising in her home and will assist her in her efforts toward rational, 
efficient and economical living. 

We heartily congratulate Dr. Langworthy on his added opportunity 
for useful service in this important field. 

Public Health Service Publications. The attention of housekeep- 
ers and teachers is again directed to the popular publications on health, 
sanitation and hygiene, issued by the U. S. Public Health Service. 
These publications, like the Farmers' Bulletins of the Department of 
Agriculture, are distributed gratuitously to all who ask for them. 
Teachers, institute workers and others interested should take advan- 
tage of this opportunity to secure reliable information. 

We should all of us be glad that the general government through its 
Public Health Service has recognized another of the housekeeper's 
needs and has met it so admirably. The Pubhc Health Service is in 
charge of Surgeon-General Rupert Blue, whose address is "U.S. Public 
Health Service, Washington, D. C. 



HOUSEKEEPERS' DEPARTMENT 

The editors of the Journal earnestly request assistance from the readers of this 
new department. They especially desire suggestions for timely topics on which 
information should be gathered; data either given directly or by reference to books 
and articles; and records of personal observation. 

LINES OVER MY FIRE PLACE 

Friend who dost tarry here, 
Share all we have of cheer; 
Hearth with aspiring flame, 
Bread brok'n in friendship's name, 
Hills beyond the pasture bars, 
Silent skies with steadfast stars. 

Sarah Louise Arnold. 

A FEW REASONS FOR COOPERATIVE BUYING 

Summer is not the season for starting new ventures, but on account 
of the rapid spread of the cooperative idea as offering a method of 
meeting the increased cost of living, we may be sure that the autumn 
will see concerted effort in many localities to apply the principle, 
especially to the distribution of food and other daily necessaries. 
The American Society of Thrift says in reply to inquiries: 

In regard to the cooperative buying, it is so evident that it will be successful upon 
truly cooperative lines, that this Society will probably establish a bureau of home- 
makers supplies. President Straus is not only convinced that this is practical, but 
that it will go far to improve general conditions in business over the present com- 
petitive system. 

What are the advantages in cooperative buying? Not, in general, 
in the more efl&cient running of a business, as such — that has been 
already carefully worked out. The whole advantage arises from the 
principle that consumer and distributor have but one interest; neither 
is trying to get ahead of the other, for they are one. To illustrate: 
The head of a large suburban pro\asion store, in order to explain the 
necessity for his high charges, said: "For instance, I had to get a good 

359 



,6o The Journal of Home Economics [October 

man and his team off early this morning to the wharf five miles away to 
buy fish; when ordered for lunch by my customers it must be fresh. 
The time of that man and his team have to be added to the price of 
the fish and also the loss of what is left on my hands." Compare 
this with the method of cooperation reported in the June Journal 
by the Club of Greensburg, Pa. They took orders in advance for fish 
to be delivered on a certain day of the week when it could be most 
advantageously bought. There was in this case no loss whatever. 
Half of Greenburg ate fish that day, if that may be considered an objec- 
tion, but it was of fine quality and cost half the usual rate. 

Or, take that item in the system of the cooperative store of Mont- 
clair, N. J., by which the purchaser who wishes delivery of goods must 
pay for it, and the requirement of cash down which eliminates bad 
debts and reduces the cost of bookkeeping; both of which swell the 
annual dividend to the cooperator who is thrifty enough to have ready 
money in hand and is willing, by forethought, to reduce the num- 
ber of deliveries. He is not paying for the other man's deliveries 
or bad debts. 

Most important advantage of all though less dwelt on, since the 
average housewife has not yet come to a proper valuation of her 
time, is the let up in that eternal vigilance required by the competitive 
system to insure high quality of goods, just weight and measure. 
No one is profiting by her loss, for she is part owner of the store, 
and she loses no time in running after bargains or trying different 
dealers. She knows that her steady custom and that of others to 
whom she recommends the store help form the basis for the whole- 
sale orders and prevents loss in a business whose dividends she shares. 
All these manifest advantages should give to would-be cooperators the 
greatest patience while the store is working out its methods, and also 
the understanding that a competent buyer and manager must be 
paid a good salary. 

The principles on which the cooperative store is run have been thor- 
oughly worked out in Great Britain where such stores have been in 
successful operation for over a half century, therefore it ought to be an 
easy matter to adopt their methods to this country, but other forms of 
cooperation have less to go on and some experimentation will be needed. 
"From farm to family" is a war cry that has aroused country- producer 
and city consumer; and the recent efforts of the express companies 
and the parcels post would seem to offer the needed assistance in 
bringing them together. A country dweller sends in fine cherries to 



1 9 14] Housekeepers' Department 361 

the commission merchant and receives for his share 3 cents a quart, 
when poorer cherries are selling in the provision stores at 15 cents a 
quart; but the next year, in trying to reach the consumer direct the 
time expended gives him a sorry deficit. He must unite with others 
by methods yet to be evolved. The cooperative city market will be 
the next step. 

In the December number will be found reports of the progress 
of the Cooperative Buying Clubs already reported in the Journal 
and also reports of cooperative stores in large cities. The causes 
of failure of former ventures of this kind will also be pointed out. 

THE PROTEIN STANDARD AND THE HOUSEKEEPER 

Ai««E L. Wing 

The method outlined here requires more technical knowledge than 
is usual among even well educated women. It is practical only for the 
woman who knows or is wnlling to learn something of nutrition and food 
and who keeps herself informed, or is willing to keep informed on 
what modern science is doing to solve her problems for her. 

It is especially useful in study classes for housekeepers, because it 
gives natural, definite, concrete work for each member of the class, 
work which she can see for herself has a direct application to her 
own problem. 

The question of how much protein the himian body needs, no longer 
occupies unduly the attention of the student of nutrition. Other 
phases of the food question are coming to the fore, and protein is falling 
back to its proper place as one only of our vital needs. 

To the educated, conscientious housekeeper, however, it still re- 
mains one of her greatest difficulties. She feels that she cannot wait 
for the physiological chemists to leam all the facts about protein which 
are needed before the whole vexed question can be made clear, and the 
apparent contradictions explained; and so while waiting hopefully for 
this blessed time to come she will probably for the present prefer to 
follow the middle course and be moderate in protein as in all things. 
She certainly has the backing of experience in such a decision for it is 
what most of the human race does when there is any opportimity for 
selection. Furthermore, she must realize that people actually do live 
in good health on amounts of protein all the way between the usual 
extremes and so she will probably feel that there must be less danger 
involved in large or small amounts than either the parsimonious or the 



362 The Journal oj Home Economics [October 

over-generous would have her believe. She may be content if she is 
furnishing between 2 and 4 ounces of protein daily per person. 

To the housekeeper who wishes to economize, the subject is made 
more important by being a question of money as well as of health. 
Except in such cases as carbohydrates suppHed by expensive out of 
season fruits and vegetables, or fat by fancy butter at a fancy price, 
protein is the most expensive of the nutrients, so that its waste involves 
a greater loss of money than the waste of other foods. For the sake of 
both health and economy its use must conform to proper "balance" 
in the diet, at least as nearly so as the habits and demands of the family 
mil permit, but this busy housewife has no time for weighing out the 
food, even if it were desirable. 

There is no royal road — there never is a royal road to a goal worth 
reaching — but an accurate enough estimate of the protein provided for 
the family as a whole, may be made with comparative ease by estima- 
ting, at the time oj buying, the amount of protein in all of the food. 
In keeping a classified account of the amounts and cost of foods used, 
which we will assume this modern housewife does, and which, if she 
wnshes to economize, she certainly should do, headings may be chosen 
which will group many of the articles in such a way that a sufficiently 
accurate average protein percentage may be found for the whole group; 
which saves, of course, much reckoning. 

To illustrate, let one column on the food page of such a book of 
classified accounts be headed "grain foods," and let space be provided 
for record of amount as well as price. This column will include flour, 
meals and breakfast foods, macaroni, and all the bread, crackers, and 
cake that are bought ready made. The total for the colimm will 
show the weight and cost of all the grain products bought. How 
much of this is protein? 

Protein in certain "grain foods''^ Percentage 

Kind 0/ food of protein 

Bread 9-10 

Macaroni 1 1-14 

Oat breakfast foods 16 

Wheat breakfast foods 12 

Other grains less than 10 

In stud>'ing these figures to get a fair average for the whole group, it 
should be remembered: First, where bread is baked in the house, floiir 
forms the great bulk of the "grain food" eaten; so much so, in fact, that 

' U. S. Dept. of Agr. Farmers' Bui. 142. 



1 914] . Housekeepers' Department 363 

it would be not far out of the way to assume the protein percentage of 
flour to be the average for all grain products. 

Second, the grains having less than 10 per cent protein are those 
least used in our diet, and probably their lack would be more than made 
up by the richness of the oats eaten. 

Third, when much of the bread is bought ready made, the assumed 
average for the group would have to be somewhat lower than flour, as 
part of what we pay for in bread, as in some other things, is water. 

After careful consideration of all the facts, 10 per cent seems not too 
high to assume as the average of the protein content of these bread- 
stuffs. Therefore, of course, the total of the weights in our "grain 
food" columns divided by 10 will give the amount of protein supplied 
by this type of food. 

Eggs and milk should each have a column, for each has a distinct 
value and importance of its own. 

Meat and fish are sufficiently alike to be grouped together, and 
studied for their average percentage as bought. The different kinds 
and cuts vary more in value than do the grains but in making calcula- 
tions, it will be enough for all practical purposes to assume that meats 
such as beef, as purchased, that is, raw meat as it comes from the 
butcher, contains 15 per cent protein; fat meat, such as pork chops, 17 
per cent; fat salt pork and bacon 8 per cent; fish 10 per cent; and 
cheese 25 per cent protein per pound. 

In the case of milk the protein content is 3.5 per cent per pound (that 
is per pint), and with eggs it is 12 per cent, 8 eggs being equivalent to a 
pound. 

In the case of dry legumes (beans, peas, lentils, cowpeas, etc.), the 
protein content is 22 per cent per pound. 

These foods, with the cereal food and breadstuffs mentioned above, 
represent the principal groups which are sources of protein in the diet. 

For the protein foods bought occasionally and in small quantities, 
and for the so-called non-protein foods, still less painstaking methods 
can be employed. 

Practically all our foods except sugar, refined starches, olive and 
other oils and some of the culinary fats, furnish more or less pro- 
tein. The amounts are often very small, but they should be counted, 
for "many a Uttle makes a muckle," and a surprisingly large "muckle" 
in this case. To write down these many small items day by day in 
any formal way would take more time than any housekeeper could or 
should give. But with a table giving the protein value of foods as 



364 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

purchased and her own classified account giving the kinds and amounts 
of these articles bought, it is easy enough to find their approximate ad- 
dition of protein to the family diet. From the total of the protein from 
all these sources must be deducted a proper amount for unavoidable 
waste after buying and for losses during digestion. 

If such a record is kept for but one month, it will be a revelation to 
the housewife. She will never again be so ignorant of her raw material. 
In fact, there should be no need of keeping up this recording regularly. 
It can be done at intervals for perhaps a month at a time, as the family 
conditions change, and there seems need of it. The housekeeper will 
gradually learn to ''sense" the value of her food, as the Western cow- 
boy did the weight of his cattle. I knew one underwitted boy of twelve 
who could "guess," well enough for selling purposes, the weight of a 
bimch of cattle across the field. Constant practice and a lively inter- 
est had made him an expert in this one thing. 

A group of six women kept an account for one month of the amounts 
used in their households of three of the least variable important articles 
of diet — eggs, milk, and grain foods. 

It was found that on an average 8 ounces of '' grain foods,"' 2 ounces 
of eggs and 10 oimces of milk, were consumed per person per day, 
which would supply respectively 0.8, 0.24 and 0.53 ounces of protein, or 
a total of 1.57 oimces. 

Besides this, an estimate was made of what was considered a fairly 
typical amount and variety of fruits, vegetables, butter, cocoa, and 
small simdries, which amoimted to another | oz. protein, making in all 
about 2 oz. per day per man. This did not take into account the meat 
and fish served in these families two or three times a day (and pre- 
viously looked upon by these women as the main sources of protein) ; 
nor did it include the legumes, cheese, and nuts eaten freely. Was not 
this something of an eye-opener? 

The housewife needs knowledge so that she can know whether her 
table is reasonably right or not. If it is, she can feel satisfaction; if 
it is not, she will want to make it what it should be. 



1914I ' Housekeepers' Department 365 

SERVING A FOUR-COURSE CHURCH LUNCHEON 

Mrs. John F. Woodhull 

The Union Missionary Society of our city wanted to have a luncheon 
but the problem was what church would undertake to feed three hun- 
dred and seventy-five people? Ours was the only one that had the 
equipment to accommodate the large number and so we began to organ- 
ize for the task. A decorating committee, a serving committee, and a 
kitchen committee were appointed and their work assigned. The 
kitchen committee was to buy the food and prepare it at a maximum 
cost of thirty cents per capita. We were all inexperienced in catering 
for the public but as most of us do our own work we did know how to 
cook but that was all. The chairman of the kitchen committee planned 
a menu which she thought might do and invited the committee of six- 
teen \Nith the pastor and his wife to come and lunch with her and criti- 
cise it. 

Menu — Pea soup, imperial sticks; chicken, rice, peas, watercress, olives, rolls 
and butter; ice cream, cake; coffee, with cream and sugar. 

The chairman made a note of everything that was done in preparing 
this luncheon for eighteen. She had a pad fastened to the wall where 
she noted the exact quantity by weight or measure, the exact price of 
each thing, the time required for cooking, also for preparing the 
various dishes. The committee having approved of this luncheon for 
eighteen, the rest was comparatively simple, just multiplication and 
division. 

We planned to take three days for preparing the final luncheon 
which was to be served on a Wednesday at one o'clock. We found out 
just when each member of the committee could help and then planned 
the work accordingly. The tasks for each day were t>TDe written and 
tacked up on the wall so that when each one came in she could see at 
once what was to be done. The first day there were fifty-nine fowls to 
be boiled whole. There were ten good workers to prepare them and 
nobody felt overtaxed. We used three wash boilers to cook them 
in, filling each one three times, using the same stock. In that way 
rich stock was made for the gravy and for the soup. While the fowls 
were cooking we washed the rice, and prepared the watercress. We 
wanted to make ever\' thing as simple as possible for the final ser\ing 
and also be sure that the proper amount was placed on each plate. 
We washed the watercress and divided each bunch into eighteen parts 



366 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

and laid the parts in rows on pieces of cheese cloth then rolled them 
up and laid them on ice. To the surprise of some, they were crisp 
and green three days later, and were easily served, each Uttle bunch 
being by itself as we unrolled the cheese cloth. Most of the com- 
mittee were through with their work on Monday before noon, only 
three or four remaining while the fowls were boiling. Tuesday we cut 
up the fowls and laid them in dripping pans, having greased the pans 
first with salt pork fat. We laid a piece of white meat and dark meat 
together, one on top of the other, enough for one portion and eighteen 
portions in each dripping pan ; then brushed them over with the salt 
pork fat and dredged them with flour, pepper, and salt, all ready for 
baking the next day. We opened the peas that day, also the cases 
of Kjiorr's soup, which comes in powder form. We removed the fat 
from the stock and mixed the powder with cold water ready to stir 
into the boiling water the next day. We also cut the butter, each 
pound into forty pieces, and put it into bowls of cold water. Dishes 
were counted and placed in order on a side table. 

The next morning all the committee arrived early. We boiled the 
rice in wash boilers twenty-five minutes with eight times the quantity 
of water, then drained it and put it into smaller kettles to dry off and 
later it was put into a very ingenious warmer which will be described 
later. The gravy was made in a wash boiler. Five quarts of flour for 
thickening had to be mixed carefully and strained into pitchers. Four 
of us mixed it in small quantities in separate bowls. The chicken was 
baked in hot ovens about fifteen minutes and the gravy, seasoned with 
salt, pepper and onion salt, was poured over it in the dripping pans and 
the twenty-five pans of chicken were packed away with the rice to be 
kept hot in the wonderful warmer until the luncheon hour should 
arrive. The rice and the chicken were thus out of the way early and 
the stoves were clear for the soup, coffee and peas. The soup took two 
wash boilers, the coffee two wash boilers and the peas were warmed in 
two five-quart double boilers. The powdered soup mixed with cold 
water was stirred into the boihng stock and allowed to boil twenty-five 
minutes. Eight pounds of coffee soaked one hour in sixteen quarts of 
cold water were added to forty -eight quarts of boiling water just before 
limcheon was served. 

Ever}'thing was ready and the committee had time to sit down and 
chat for an hour before the guests arrived. Thanks to the precious 
warmer we were not frettmg lest the luncheon should be spoiled. 



1914] Housekeepers^ Department 367 

We each had our particular post for serving and each one understood 
that she was not to leave her post for anything. 

The arrangement of the food supplies and the relative positions for 
waitresses, passers, dish washers, and other helpers made possible the 
result that three hundred and seventy-five people were served to the 
four course luncheon inside of one hour. 

The following is a list of the quantities used and the cost of the same: 

Knorr's Pea Soup, 2 doz. cases 2.20 

Fowl, 242 J lbs 51-85 

Pork, 3 J lbs .60 

Rice, 20 lbs i . 50 

Peas, 20 cans 2.25 

Watercress, 20 bunches .75 

Ice Cream, 12 j gal 16.50 

CofiFee, 81bs 2.16 

Flour, 8 lbs .25 

Cream, 11 pts i.oo 

Sugar, 10 lbs .85 

Stuffed Olives, 2 gal 3 • 3° 

Butter, 9 lbs 2 . 79 

Salt .09 

Cake, 23 lbs 517 

Rolls, 400 3 . 00 

$94- 26 

S94.26 divided by 375 makes the cost per capita just about twenty-five 
cents. The only thing contributed was the imperial sticks. 

In the dining room there were twenty -five tables and fifty waitresses, 
two for each table. This large number of waitresses found their work 
facilitated by serving by way of the side aisles and returning by way of 
the center aisle, so that no one passed another wdth her tray. Water, 
rolls, butter, etc., were kept in an adjoining room and two extra wait- 
resses kept all tables replenished with these things. There were also 
two head waitresses to supervise the whole. 

Mr. Woodhull gives this account of how the improvised warming 
cabinet was made: 

Sixteenmembersof the "Ladies' Aid"had cooked 240 pounds of fowland2opounds 
of boiled rice to serve to 375 persons in a church, and the pastor and I were expected 
to devise some way of keeping all this steaming hot for five hours without burning it 
or drying it up. The clergyman and I were suffering from brain fag and needed the 
refreshment of manual labor. 

Having calculated the volume of 375 stomachs, or at least the volume of this 



^68 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

feast, to be 1 6 cubic feet, we built a closet of wood (which cost $3-37) 42 feet high, 
3 feet wide and 1 1 feet deep. This was divided by shelves into four sections and the 
whole was closed by four doors in front. A heating flue entered at the bottom and 
passed up through all the four sections. It remained to determine what source of 
heat and how much would be required to keep this mass of food hot without burning 
it or the cabinet itself. When inquiry was made as to what the temperature of 
"hot" food should be, there were none to answer, and so we experimented, visiting 
many dinner tables and unceremoniously plunging the bulb of a thermometer into 
all sorts of meats, vegetables and drinks which were declared to be suitably hot. 
Before the results of these experiments were known, no one would venture an opin- 
ion as to whether it would be desirable to serve food at the body temperature (98°), 
at the temperature of a hot bath (105°), at the temperature of boiling water (212°), 
or at the temperature of a baking oven (400°) . The experiments, however, showed 
that there is a remarkable agreement as to when foods are suitably hot. This 
temperature was found to be close to 150° for all kinds of food and drink. This 
fact contained a surprise for it had been predicted that persons generally would 
require that tea and coffee should be somewhat hotter than solid foods. 

The entire cabinet was covered with two layers of building paper and one layer 
of white oil cloth to conserve the heat. By an extended process of reasoning and 
calculating we finally arrived at the conclusion that gas would sen.^e our purpose 
better than steam or electricity, and that a gas burner which would consume 10 
cubic teet of gas per hour would be required to keep the whole mass of food and 
cabinet at about 180°, thus allowing a fall of 30° while the food was being trans- 
ported from the warming cabinet to the mouths of the consumers. A flue made of 
wire screen 5 by 15 inches in cross section entered through the bottom of the cabinet 
and extended to the top, but was not open at the top. For a short distance below 
the cabinet the flue was made of sheet iron and the gas burner was introduced 
into the bottom of this. The burner was made of a piece of gas pipe closed at the 
end and having very small holes bored along its side. These holes passed 10 cubic 
feet of gas per hour to the numerous little flames and the hot products of combustion 
were required to circulate through the cabinet and finally pass out at the bottom of 
the flue. Thermometers were placed in various parts of the cabinet and the tem- 
perature was found to var>' between 165 and 185 . 

Thus we kept 24 dripping pans of cut-up chicken and half a dozen kettles of rice 
at about 175° for five hours, burning 50 cubic feet of gas at a cost of five cents. 

ONE-PRICE SELLING FROM A HOUSEKEEPER'S POINT 

OF VIEW 

Annie L. Wing 

In a city suburb is a clean, bright, businesslike, little store, where one 
man and a boy sell a limited nimiber of articles of food, among them 
certain canned goods. The prices are decidedly lower for the same 
grade of goods than in the nearby grocery stores. There are no cus- 
tomers except those who really want to economize. Each person must 
pay cash and carry home his purchase. There is no bookkeeping, no 
cashier, no ofl&ce expenses, no waiting for money due, no bad debts, no 



1914] Housekeepers' Department 369 

expense of men and teams for order taking and deliveries. And the 
housekeepers get the benefit of all these savings. Why shouldn't 
they? Isn't paying cash and carrying home packages a perfectly legit- 
imate way of cutting down the cost of living? 

This little store has the further advantage of being one of a chain 
forming a concern large enough to purchase in quantities from the best 
sources, and to employ really expert buyers and supervisors. The 
efficient management shows itself in a general air of prosperity, as 
well as in good quality and low prices. 

There are also in the village numbers of ordinary grocery stores for 
those who do not need, or choose, or who are not able, to save their 
money at the expense of their time and convenience. Such a store 
sends out daily a man and team to take one's order, and later sends 
them again to dehver — perhaps a yeast cake. The customer must 
pay of course for this very expensive service. 

These stores open accounts with everyone, and they must unques- 
tionably put their prices high enough to cover all losses. The cus- 
tomer who pays his bill must pay the bill also of the man who does not. 
He who pays his bill promptly must pay a share of the interest on the 
money due from the man who lets his bill run on unpaid for months. 
Each must pay the price not alone of the food he buys, but also of the 
service and accommodation rendered. 

It would not be just to force this grocer to sell for a price on which 
the httle cash store makes a fair profit. If it were required of him he 
would have to close his doors, and the community would be deprived 
of a needed convenience. 

Neither would it be just or expedient to make the cash store raise its 
price to suit the requirements of the charging, delivering, accommodat- 
ing grocer. To do so would not only add to the burden of those least 
able to bear it, but it would also tend to discourage that efficient busi- 
ness management about which the world is at present a little mad. 

Lea\H[ng this suburb, let us take two typical city department stores. 
The first is a handsome, spacious, modern building on the most desirable 
corner of the most desirable street in town. The land on which it stands 
is in itself a fortune. There are plate glass windows, broad aisles and 
stairways, mirrors, expensive decorations, coimnodious rest rooms 
with easy chairs and writing tables with stationery and the daily papers, 
there are unlimited delivery with much tissue paper and many boxes; 
easy credit; goods sent on approval; and, in short, all of the luxuries 
demanded by the well-to-do and for which they are willing to pay. 



370 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

The second, in a far less expensive section of the city, is made up of 
two or three old buildings throwTi together and cheaply remodeled, 
with a step up here and two or three steps down there; and it is used to 
its utmost capacity. It is as large, let us say, and as efficiently man- 
aged as the handsome store, but it is for the accommodation of people 
who must make every penny count, and who are not able to pay for 
extras. 

Does anyone doubt that the second store could make a fair profit 
selling articles, for instance, of kitchen furnishing at a price which 
would bankrupt the first store if it were persisted in? The " one-price" 
set by the manufacturer can not suit the circumstances in both cases, 
and it may not suit in either. 

In Europe the poor are allowed to go into the fields after the har- 
vesters and glean whatever is left. In American cities there are im- 
mense gleanings which should somehow be used to the best advantage. 
Goods unavoidably left over at the end of the season, the excess of 
injudiciously bought stock, damaged (often only superficially) goods, 
bankrupts' effects, stock in the hands of executors, goods selling out on 
removal or on going out of business, all of which are often made the 
excuse for dishonest practices. Cannot the government find a way to 
stop these frauds without refusing to allow us to buy such goods at 
other than the original " one-price?" Can it if it tries make us pay that 
price for these gleanings? Should we not instead go to the luxurious 
store and demand fresh goods? 

Perhaps these are superficial objections. There may be weightier 
arguments on the other side, but they are honest objections based on 
actual conditions, and should be given due consideration. 

THE "UNOCCUPIED" HOUSEKEEPER 

It seems that our English sisters also chafe under the slighting classi- 
fication given to the married woman in the census, where the ofl&cial 
returns put her among the "unoccupied." These are presumably the 
wives of the six million married men who are wage earners and as the 
Illustrated London News points out, "except in the very limited class 
of society where abundant service is supplied out of a large income, the 
wives responsible for the household tasks often toil harder and longer 
than most wage earners." 

The reason for this anomaly in census returns in all countries would 
seem to be a lack of any standards by which the value of the housewives' 



1 914] Housekeepers^ Department 371 

labor can be appraised, and the fact that it does not come to her in a 
pay envelope. Are these difficulties too great to be overcome? The 
matter would seem to be now in the state that the allowance of the 
unmarried daughter was a generation ago. The father said, " Come to 
me for what you need." This unsatisfactory and wasteful method has 
been upset by the determination of the young woman in question to 
have a definite sum set at her disposal if she is worth keeping at home. 
Otherwise she will go out and earn it for herself. 

Will our readers suggest a plan by which the housewife who cannot 
so easily substitute outside earning shall receive a definite fair sum for 
her labor? WTiat stands in the way? 

TEACHING GIRLS TO DRESS TASTEFULLY 

Teaching Girls to Dress Tastefully is the title of a suggestive article 
in the June number of Home Progress, by Mary A. Laselle. She tells of 
a school of practical arts where the principal obtained the cooperation 
of drawing, sewing and millinery teachers in the study of the shape 
and trimming of a hat that should bring out the best points in the face 
of the wearer; the cut and adornment of the blouse suitable for daily 
wear; the material, cut and color of the skirt that should not empha- 
size the trunk but should hang gracefully from the hips. Fashion 
plates, silhouettes, drawing outhnes, and other illustrations were used 
in the study, and the result was a chart drawn up by the girls them- 
selves which was as follows: 

A schoolgirl should have — First, a neat, simple hat in which the trimming follows 
the contour of the hat, and the shape and color are becoming to the wearer; second, 
her hair neatly and simply arranged in a manner that is best suited to the outline of 
her face; third, a clean laundered blouse, or a blouse of good cut forming part of a 
one-piece dress; fourth, a modest well-cut skirt that does not distort or caricature 
the form, of a color and a material suitable for much wear; fifth, clean, whole stock- 
ings and underwear; sixth, well-fitting shoes with low heels. 

The article says that a great improvement was observable in the 
dress of the girls throughout the building, that the good example spread 
to the clerks in a department store and led to the offer of a prize by the 
editor of a local daily for the best essay by a high school girl on the dress 
of the yoimg woman in business. 

Two Clothing Budgets prepared by the class above mentioned. 
The motto — "No beauty without fitness of purpose." 



372 



The Journal of Home Economics 



[October 



A girl's outfit for one year; age 14 to 17; 

cost ?7J 

(Some of the underclothing was made at 

home) 

4 summer vests $0.12 J $0.50 

2 winter combinations 0.7s 1.50 

3 pr. white drawers 0.25 0.7s 

2 corsets i.oo 2.00 

4 chemises 0.50 2.00 

2 flannelette petticoats 0.25 0.50 

2 petticoats 0.60 1.2a 

4 nightgowns 0.50 2.00 

6 pr. stockings 0.2s i-So 

2 middy blouses i . so 3 ■ 00 

2 shirt waists i.87i 3 -75 

2 skirts 3 -SO 7 00 

3 dresses 4.00 12.00 

I winter coat 5 -So 5So 

1 spring coat 3 -75 3-75 

3 hats 2.00 6.00 

4 pr. gloves 0.7S 3 00 

4 pr. shoes 2.50 10.00 

2 pr. rubbers 0.50 i.oo 

10 ribbons 0.30 3.00 

handkerchiefs 1 . 50 

accessories 3 • SS 

Total $75 00 



A girl's outfit for one year; age 14 to 17; 

cost $35.97 

(Most of this clothing was made at home) 

2 summer vests $0. 12 J $0.25 

2 winter combinations 0.75 i.SO 

3 pr. white drawers 0.25 0.7s 

2 corset waists o. 50 i . 00 

3 corset covers 0.25 0.7s 

2 flannelette petticoats 0.25 o.so 

I white petticoat 0.85 0.85 

1 black petticoat 0.75 0.75 

2 nightgowns 0.59 1.18 

4 shirt waists i.oo 4. 00 

X dress skirt 2.70 2 . 70 

I cotton dress 2.50 2.50 

I wool dress 3.50 3-SO 

I coat for two seasons 6.50 3-25 

I summer hat i.oo i.oo 

I winter hat i . 24 i . 24 

I pr. wool gloves 0.2s 0.25 

I pr. kid gloves i.oo i.oo 

4 ties o.io 0.40 

6 ribbons 0.15 0.90 

6 handkerchiefs o . 25 

6 pr stockings 0.12J 0-7S 

3 pr. shoes 2. 00 6. 00 

I pr. overshoes 0.70 o . 70 

Total $35.97 



POWDERED SUGAR OF COMMERCEi 

Those sugars upon which most work has been done in the process of 
manufacturing sell for high price, but the cost to the consumer of such 
grades as cube sugar and powdered sugar is entirely out of proportion 
to the increased cost of manufacture. 

Both cube sugar and powdered sugar are usually made from the same 
grade of stock as granulated sugar. The cube sugar has, however, been 
cr^'stallized in lumps or "sugar loaves," and is then sawed into slices 
and finally into cubes. Powdered sugar has been ground in a mill 
similar to that used in making flour, and then sifted through bolting 
cloth so as to be of uniform fineness. It is also very important that 
powdered sugar should be thoroughly dried so as to prevent its caking 
upon storage. These sugars are sometimes colored blue with ultra- 
marine so as to cover up the slightly yellow tint which is due to the 
retention of a small quantity of molasses. This process is of the same 
character as the bluing of clothes in the laundry, and is practiced for 
the same purpose. 



* On the Powdered Sugar of Commerce. 
Trans. Kans. Acad. Sci., 26, 191 2, pp. 27, 28. 



E. H. S. Bailey and H. L. Jackson, 



1914] Housekeepers^ Department 373 

Something over twenty samples of the finest grade of powdered sugar, 
namely, the XXXX, have been collected by Kansas state inspectors and 
examined in the laboratory. As one requirement for powdered sugar 
is that it should be fine and free from lumps, some of the manufacturers 
have been putting a little starch into the sugar during the process of 
grinding. This can hardly be called adulteration, however, as it is not 
put in with the object of cheapening the product, but to improve its 
quality for a particular purpose. Starch is, furthermore, a food prod- 
uct, although less expensive than sugar. A mineral substance, if 
added to the sugar, would be considered an adulteration, as mineral 
substances are especially forbidden for use in sugar or confectionery. 

Of the twenty samples analyzed five contained starch, and the maxi- 
mum quantity found in any sample was 4 per cent. In one package, 
in which the label stated 2 per cent of starch was present, no starch was 
found. It is not uncommon, however, to find that the label does not 
truthfully describe the contents of the package. There was no indi- 
cation of the presence of sugars other than pure cane sugar in the sam- 
ples examined. 

Although the pure food and drugs laws are fairly well enforced, there 
is always the tendency in the trade to encroach upon them as far as 
possible. By ingenious labels, written by well-trained counsel, prod- 
ucts are kept on the market almost in spite of the efforts of the 
authorities. Although the glaring frauds are eliminated, there is just 
as much need as ever for vigilance on the part of those who are working 
to protect the consumers from misrepresentation in foodstuffs. 

WHIPPING CREAM 

When cream is beaten rapidly, air is entrapped in it with the forma- 
tion of a great number of small bubbles which are held together by the 
gelatinous consistency of the cream and the whole mass is trans- 
formed into a firm white foam not unhke the beaten white of egg. If 
the beating is continued too far, a complete separation of the butter 
fat from the other components of the cream takes place and butter is 
formed. 

Considerable study has been made of the factors aflfecting the whip- 
ping property of cream. Experiments in which samples of cream were 
whipped 'uith an egg beater under different conditions showed that the 
fat content, temperature, and acidity of the cream exerted the greatest 
effects upon its whipping quaUties. These experiments showed that to 
obtain the best results: 



xy^ The Journal of Home Economics [October 

1. Cream for whipping purposes should contain from 25 to 40 per 
cent of butter fat and not less than 20 per cent. 

2. The cream should be kept at 35° to 45° F. for two hours or more 
before whipping. This is the temperature of a good icebox. 

3. The presence in the cream of a small amoimt of lactic acid (the 
acid formed when milk sours) improves its whipping quality, and 
cream for whipping should be from twelve to twenty-four hours old to 
allow time for the formation of some of this acid. 

WTien these three conditions, especially the last, are wanting, success 
is obtained by adding one-tenth to three-tenths per cent (or one-fourth 
a teaspoonful to a pint) of commercial lactic acid which can be pur- 
chased at any drug store 

Pasteurised cream has the appearance of being less rich than raw 
cream, and owing to its thinness and the fact that it is less viscous it is 
more difficult to w^hip. In this case also experiment has shown a 
remedy. To 150 parts of the cream is added one part of a solution 
prepared by dissolving quicklime in a solution of granulated sugar, an 
amount of lime which has no harmful physiological effect. This solu- 
tion which is called " viscogen" or sucrate of lime may be purchased or 
it may be prepared in the home as follows : 

Dissolve 2^ pounds of granulated sugar in 5 pints of water. Pour 
upon I pound of quicklime 3 pints of water, strain and add to the sugar 
solution. Shake frequently and allow to stand about three hours to 
settle. Siphon off the clear liquid which should then be kept in tightly 
stoppered bottles, as the air reduces the strength of the solution some- 
what. About three-fourths of a teaspoonful of this solution should be 
added to a pint of cream which it is desired to thicken. The cream 
should be cooled to about 6o°F. and the "viscogen" thoroughly stirred 
in to insure a homogeneous mixture. This is for home use alone, as 
the food laws of most states forbid the sale of milk to which anything 
has been added. 

Powdered sugar, cornstarch, caramel, gelatin, or jvmket, which are 
sometimes added to cream which is to be whipped increase the whipping 
property to a shght extent. The addition of egg white is also effective. 
Vanilla has no effect. 



1914] Housekeepers^ DeparLment 375 

RULES FOR THE MILK BOTTLE 

1. Does your milk man come before you are up? Then provide in 
the coolest place possible on your porch or back steps a wall cupboard or 
a box with hinged cover, or put up a shelf above reach of the passing 
dog or cat whose delight it is to lick off what may ooze out around the 
cap of the bottle. Saliva, dirt and possibly disease germs are left. 
In the same box place the empty bottles with order for next day. A 
spring clip will hold the latter in place. 

2. Put the milk in the ice box as early as possible. By order of the 
health board it came to you iced, and the temperature should not be 
allowed to rise. 

3. Before opening the bottle hold it under the hot water spigot for a 
moment, and wipe dry with a clean cloth. This removes what may 
have been left by flies, dust of the street and dirty hands of the milk 
man. 

4. To open. If your milk company does not use the cap with an ear 
for hfting out or one which fastens over the bottle, then buy one of the 
metal tops with sharp screw in lower side with which to take out the 
cap. The top is then used on the bottle in the ice box, for it is easier 
and better to keep in this way what is left than to pour into a pitcher 
or other open receptacle. A nutpick is also good for lifting the cap. 
Never push the cap into the milk. 

5. Refuse to buy milk that is not delivered in bottles, and do not 
forget that tickets and money are always dirty, and should not be put 
in bottles or cans. 

HOW TO KEEP BREAD FRESH 

Recent experiments, both in this country and in Holland, to answer 
the questions, "What is fresh bread?" and "Why does bread grow 
stale?," have disclosed some very interesting facts regarding the effects 
of wrapping bread for purposes of keeping it fresh. The quality of 
bread which is known as "staleness," according to some investigators 
is ascribable to a change in distribution of moisture from crumb to 
crust, and not to a loss of moisture, as is commonly said. According 
to this new work, the important factor in staleness is unfavorable 
temperature. These experiments have shown that to insure freshness, 
bread must be kept at a rather high temperature or at a very low tem- 
perature. If kept at an average temperature, bread becomes stale. 
If bread is ^Tapped while still warm in a comparatively nonconducting 



276 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

material, it will keep fresh for a relatively long time, if not subjected to 
a ver>- low temperature after wrapping. 

The experiments have shown also that the loss of weight for unwrap- 
ped bread was twice as great as for wrapped bread, and that wrapping 
prolongs very much the saleability of the bread. The experiments 
seemed to indicate that if bread is wrapped when just warm, it does not 
get mouldy and its flavor is unimpaired, while the crust becomes soft 
but not tough, and that this method of procedure should make it 
possible for bakers to avoid night work in order to dehver fresh bread 
the following morning. About the only objection that can be raised to 
this is in the case of bread where a very crisp crust is desirable, like 
French bread, rye, etc. The temperature at which bread keeps fresh 
ranges between 122° and 194° F. and below 3 2°F. The temperature at 
which it becomes stale is about 68° F., or normal room temperature. 

HELP FROM YOUR STATE 

If the women of your town want a course in cooking or sewing or 
household sanitation, write to the Extension Department of your State 
University or Agricultural College and ask for it! It may turn out to 
be just as simple as that. You may receive notice that if your group of 
women are wilUng to pay $1 apiece as a nominal fee for expenses in- 
curred by the college, and provide a lecture room with stove suitable 
for demonstration they will be furnished a teacher and outfit free for 
a week's demonstration course. At least this is what is offered in 
extension schools by Cornell University to the women of New York 
State. And such a course is pretty sure to help in solving home 
problems. 

And the same state sends out through its Health Department a 
letter to the mother of each child whose birth is reported to the De- 
partment. It reads in part: 

Dear Madam: Through the report made by your physician to the local health 
authorities, I learn that you have recently given birth to a child. I know how 
important this is to you and I want you to feel that it is also an important event in 
the great State of New York. I wish you to feel that the State Department of 
Health was created and is supported by the taxpayers to give yourlittlebaby every 
chance to grow up to be a strong, healthy citizen. 

Enclosed are pamphlets giving directions for keeping the baby well and advice 
is given about consulting the physician. 

Are all states doing as well for their babies? 



BIBLIOGRAPHY FOR HOME ECONOMICS 
LITERATURE 

Food 

The Quantitative Estimation of the Salt-Soluble Proteins in Wheat Flour. Geo. 
A. Olson, Jour. Indus, and Eng. Chem., vi, 1914, no. 3, pp. 211-214. 

The Comparative Values of Some Essential Oils as Preservatives of Cane Sugar 
Solutions. C. B. Cochran and J. H. Perkins, Jour. Indus, and Eng. Chem., vi, 1914, 
no. 4, pp. 304-306. 

Experiments with Udo, the New Japanese Vegetable. David Fairchild, Bui. 
U. S. Dept. Agr., no. 84, pp. 15, figs. 12, Bur. Plant. Indus., 1914. 

Analyses Showing the Composition of the Different Grades of Commercial Pack 
Peas. John C. Diggs, Jour. Indus, and Eng. Chem., vi, 1914, no. 4, pp. 310-313. 

The Estimation of Glycyrrhizic Acid in Candies and Liquorice. E. Durier, Ann. 
fals., vi, pp. 252-255 (cf. Chem. Abs., viii, 1914, no. 4, p. 765). 

Philippine Fruits: Composition and Characteristics. D. S. Pratt and Del 
Rosario, Philipp. Jour. Sci., viii (a), 1914, pp. 59-80. 

Promis-ng New Fruits. Wm. A. Taylor and H. P. Gould, U. S. Dept. Agr., 
Separate 621, Yearbook 1913, pp. 109-124, pis. 8. 

Supplementing Our Meat Supply with Fish. M. E. Pennington, U. S. Dept. 
Agr., Separate 623, Yearbook 1913, pp. 191-206. 

Flavor of Roquefort Cheese. J. N. Currie, Jour. Agr. Research, ii, 1914, no. i, 
pp. 1-14. 

Adam's Second Eden. Eliza R. Scidmore, Nat. Geogr. Mag., xxiii, 191 2, no. 2, 
pp. 105-173. (Ceylon and Tea.) 

A North Holland Cheese Market. Hugh M. Smith, Nat. Geogr. Mag., xxi, 1910, 
no. 12, pp. 1051-1066. 

The Atemoya, a New Fruit for the Tropics. P. J. Wester, Philipp. Agr. Rev., 
vii, 1914, no. 2, pp. 70-72, pi. I. 

Sugar Manufacture. The Modem Method vs. the Old. C. W. Hines, Philip. 
Agr. Rev., vii, 1914, no. 2, pp. 73-76, pis. 2). 

Banana Culture. O. W. Barrett, Philipp. Agr. Rev., vii, 1914, no. 2, pp. 58-64, 
pi. I ; Philipp. Bur. Agr. Circ. 27. (Includes also data on uses of bananas and plan- 
tains, or "cooking bananas.") 

Mineral and Organic Analyses of Foods. E. B. Forbes, F. M. Beegle and J. E. 
Mensching, Ohio Agr. Expt. Sta. {Wooster) Bid., no. 255, 1913. 

Food Analyses and Other Pure Food and Drug Topics. E. F. Ladd and Alma K. 
Johnson, North Dakota Sta. Spec. Bui., ii, 1913, no. 18, pp. 298-304, 311-324, figs. 3. 



377 



278 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

Nutrition 

Glyoxalase III. Distribution of the Enzyme and its Relation to the Pancreas. 
H. D. Dakin and H. W. Dudley, Jour. Biol. Chem., xv, 1913, pp. 463-474. 

Enz>Tnes as Synthetic Agents in Protein Metabolism. J. H. Priestley, Science 
Progress, viii, 1914, no. 31, pp. 482-496. 

Hydrolysis of Yeast Nucleic Acid. W. Jones and A. E. Richards, Jour. Biol. 
Client., xA'ii, 1914, no. i, pp. 71-80. 

The Induction of Gastric Secretion. Editorial, Jour. Am. Med. Assn., Ixii, 
1914, no. 12, p. 934. 

Intravenous Nutrition. Editorial, Jour. Am. Med. Assn., kii, 1914, no. 5, pp. 

365, 386. 

Calcium. Editorial, Jour. Am. Med. Assn., kii, 1914, nos. 3, pp. 206-207; 4, 
pp. 298-299. 

Studies in Carbohydrate ]Metabolism. III. The Influence of Hydrazine upon 
Glycogin Storage and Blood Composition. IV. Do Hydrazine Derivatives Show 
the Tjpical Hydrazine Efifect upon Blood Sugar Content? V. Role of Muscle in 
Hydrazine Hypoglycemia. F. P. Underbill, Jour. Biol. Ckem., xvii, no. 2, pp. 

293-304- 

Protein Metabolism During Starv^ation and after Administration of Milk Pro- 
teins. G. Mann, Lancet, 1914, i, no. 4717. 

Muscular Work: A Metabolic Study with Special Reference to the Efficiency of 
the Human Body as a IMachine. Benedict and Cathcart, Pub. Carnegie Inst., 
Washington, no. 187. (For abstract see Chem. Ahs., viii, 1914, no. i, pp. 155, 156.) 

The Home Hospital Experiment. Pub. N. Y. Assoc, for Improving the Condition 
of the Poor, 1914, no. 78. (An e.xperiment in the Treatment of Tuberculosis.) 

Chronic Diarrhea and Constipation. A. Schjnidt, Med. Rec, bcxxv, 1914, no. 7, 
p. 277. 

Studies on Growth: Influence of Diet on Growth, Normal and Malignant. 
C. Funk, Lancet, clxxxvi, 1914, no. 2, pp. 98-100. 

Unpolished Rice and Prevention of Beri-beri. H. Eraser and A. T. Stanton, 
Lancet, clxxxvi, 1914, no. 2, pp. 96-98. 

Polyneuritis Gallinarum Caused by Different Foodstufi's, with Special Refer- 
ence to the Effect of Commercial Rice Coating on Neuritis Production. C. WeU- 
man and C. C. Bass, Amer. Jour. Trap. Diseases and Prev. Med., i, 1913, no. 2, pp. 
129-139, pis. 3. (.\ study of coated rice with reference to its wholesomeness as an 
article of diet.) 

On the Several Factors of Acid Excretion. L. J. Henderson and W. W. Palmer, 
Jour. Biol. Chem., xvii, 19 14, no. 3, pp. 305-316. 

On Soy Bean Urease. E. K. Marshall, Jr., Jour. Biol. Chem., xvii, 1914, no. 3, 
PP- 351-362. 

Dietetic Treatment of Gangrene in Diabetes MeUitus. A. V. S. Lambert and N. 
B. Foster, Ann. of Surg., lix, 1914, no. 2, pp. 176-185. 

The Influence of Inulin on the Output of Glucose in Phlorrhizin Diabetes. H. 
B. Lewis and E. M. Frankel, Jour. Biol. Chem., xvii, 1914, no. 3, pp. 365-36S. 

Studies in Diabetes, I. Theor>- of Diabetes, with Consideration of the Probable 
Mechanism of Antiketogenesis and the Cause of Acidosis. A. I. Ringer, Jour. Biol. 
Chem., xvii, 1914, no. 2, pp. 107-120. 

The Chemistry of Glucogenesis, VII. Concerning the Fate of Pyruvic Acid in 
Metabolism. A. I. Ringer, Jour. Biol. Chem., xvii, 1914, no. 3, pp. 281-286. 



1914] Bibliography of Current Literature 379 

Hygiene and Sanitation 

The Cytology and Bacteriology of Condensed Milks. F. W. Andrews, Jour. 
Pathol, and Bacleriol., xviii, 1913, p. 169. 

Ozone in Ventilation. J. C. Olsen and Wm. H. Ulrich, Jour. Indus, and Eng. 
Chem., vi, 1914. no. 8, pp. 619-623. 

Economic and Racial Waste Through Insanitary Homes and Workshops. T. M. 
Mo'loy, Pub. Health Jour., Toronto, 1914, no. 6, p. 2. 

Bacterio ogic Methods for Meat Analysis. J. Weinzirl and E. B. Newton, Am. 
Jour. Pub. Health, iv, 1914, no. 5. 

Bacteriologic Analysis of Hamburger Steak with Reference to Sanitary Standards. 
J. Weinzirl and E. B. Newton, Am. Jour. Pub. Health, iv, 1914, no. 5. 

Methods of Fighting House Fly. E. C. Levy, Am. Jour. Pub. Health, iv, 1914, 
no. 5. 

A New Method for Determining the Value of Disinfectants. C. A. Duyser and 
W. K. Lewis, Jour. Indus, and Eng. Chem., vi, 1914, no. 3, pp. 198-200. 

The Determination of Hardness in Natural Waters. Clarence Bahlmann, 
Jour. Indus, and Eng. Chem., vi, 1914, no. 3, pp. 209-211. 

Physiological Problems of Ventilation. Frederic S. Lee, Jour. Indus, and Eng. 
Chem., vi, 1914, no. 3, pp. 245-248. 

Mechanical Problems of Ventilation. D. D. Kimball, Jour. Indus, and Eng. 
Chem., vi, 1914, no. 3, pp. 248-250. 

Investigation of School Air in New York City. Charles Baskerville, Jour. 
Indus, and Eng. Chem., vi, 1914, no. 3, pp. 250-255. 

The New York State Commission on Ventilation and Its Problems. C. E. A. 
Winslow, Jour. Indus, and Eng. Chem., vi, 1914, no. 3, pp. 255-259. 

The Use of Ozone in Ventilation. Ludwig von Kupfer, Jour. Indus, and Eng. 
Chem., vi, 1914, no. 4, pp. 353-356- 

Health Laws. F. G. Caffey, U. S. Dept. Agr.. Separate 619, Yearbook, pp. 
125-134. 

Fresh' Air. Fred. S. Lee, Pop. Sci. Monthly, Ixxxiv, 1914, no. 4, pp. 313-329- 

Overcrowded Street Cars. Pub. Health Rpts. [U. S.], xxviii, 1913, no. 47, p. 
2463. Reprinted in Bull. Dept. Health, Louisville, Ky., 1913, November 15. 

Sleeping Cars and Microbes. E. Hungerford, Harper's Weekly, February 7, 1914 
pp. 20-22. (A discussion of sleeping car sanitation.) 

Experiments in School Room Ventilation with Reduced Air Supply Through 
Individual Ducts. F. Bass, Heat, aiul Vent. Mag., x, 1913, no. 8, pp. 16-24, fig. 6, 
diag. 5. 

A Study of the Hygienic Condition of the Air in Textile Mills, with Reference 
to the Influence of Artificial Humidification. Mo. Bui. State Bd. Health Mass., viii, 
1913, no. 7, pp. 269-301. 

The Citizens and the Public Health. A. M. Stimson, Pub. Health Rpts. [U. S.), 
1913, sup. 4, pp. 12. 

The Citizen and the Public Health: The Individual's relation to the Health of 
the Community. J. W. Trask, Pub. Health Rpts. [U. S.], xxviii, 1913, no, 45, pp. 

2339-2345- 

Use of Finger Bowls: An Objectionable Custom as Sometimes Practiced. C. H. 

Lavinder, Pub. Health Rpts. [U. S.], xxviii, 1813, no. i, p. 7. 



■580 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

Water and Ice Supplied by Interstate Carriers. Piih. Health Rpts. [U. S.], xxviii, 

1913, no. 20, pp. 941, 942. 

Chicago's Struggle for Scientific Garbage Collection and Disposal. Survey, xxxi, 

1914, no. 25, pp. 776-777- 

Unearthing Cellar Bakeries in the Capitals of Europe. Geo. M. Price, Survey, 
i.txi, 1914, no. 20, p. 615. 

Education and Social Work 

Hom&-Project Agricultural Instruction. U. S. Bureau of Education Bui., no. 

8, 19x4- 

Sociological Work of the New Jersey Zinc Company. Florence Hughes, Jour. 
Indus, and Eng. Chem., vi, 1914, no. 4, pp. 2>2>?>-3Z^- 

Rural Social Development; being the third annual report of the Wisconsin county 
life conference, 1913, January. Edited by C. J. Galpin, University of Wisconsin 
Bui. Gen. Series, no. 413, (whole no. 591), pp. 130. 

What the Department of Agriculture is Doing for the Housekeeper. C. F. 
Langworthy, U. S. Dept. Agr.', Separate 621, Yearbook 1913, pp. 143-162. 

The Indiana Mother's Baby Book. Editorial, Jour. Am. Med. Assn., Ixii, 1914, 
no. 15, pp. 1171, 1172. 

The Influence of Nutrition and the Influence of Education in Mental Develof>- 
ment. III. F. W. Mott, Sci. Prog., viii, 1914, no. 31, pp. 460-481, figs. 3. 

Rural School Conditions in the United States. Editorial, Jotir. Am. Med. Assn., 
Ixii, 1914, pp. 1255-1257. 

Miscellaneous 

Good Housekeeping — What Is It? Anne L. Wing, Home Progress, iii, 1913-14, 
no. 6, pp. 282-287, figs. 6. 

What the Department of Agriculture is Doing for the House Wife. A. D. Holmes, 
Alumni Bui. Univ. Virginia, ser. 3, x\, 1913, no. 4, pp. 546-554. 

Outline Lessons in Housekeeping, Including Cooking, Laundering, Dairying 
and Nursing. For use in Indian Schools. U . S. Dept. Int., Of. Indian AJfairs, 
1911, pp. 23, fig. I. 

Demonstration Lectures m Domestic Science (Foods and Cooking), Sewing and 
Home Nursing. Ontario Dept. Agr. Bui. 215, 1913, pp. 19, figs. 5. (Outline of the 
courses are given, with a statement of some of the benefits derived from such work.) 

Household Conveniences. Farmer's Guide, xxvi, 1914, no. 3, p. 69, figs. 4. (A 
brief description is given of photographs of household conveniences in farm homes 
which "any farmer's wife might have at comparatively small expense.") 

How a Gasoline Engine was Made to Help with Housework. X. W. Putnam, 
Farmer's Guide, 26, 1914, no. 3, pp. 67, 68, figs. 4. 

Labor Saving Devices: Modernizing an Old House. Mrs. F. F. Showers, Farmer, 
xxxii, 1914, no. 3, pp. 79, 86, figs. 2. 

An Ideal Fuel Manufactured out of Waste Products. G. E. Mitchell, Nat. Geogr. 
ifag., xxi, 1910, no. 12, pp. 1067-1074. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 

.\ny book or periodical mentioned in this department may be obtained through 
the Journal of Home EcoNOincs at the price listed. 

The People's Health. By Walter Moore Coleman. New York: The Macmillan 
Company, 1913, pp. 307. $0.70. By mail of the Journal $0.82. 

This is a text book in hygiene and sanitation, intended for use in the public schools 
— suitable, we should judge, for eighth grade or high school pupils who have already 
had a course in human physiology. 

The chapters cover a considerable range of topics — ventilation, water supply, 
milk supply, food adulterations and preservatives, food values, hygiene of eating and 
of the teeth, nature of germ diseases and the body's resistance, human and insect 
carriers of infection, hygiene of exercise, posture and mental attitude (together 
with various other details of personal hygiene), house construction and management, 
school sanitation and medical inspection of school children, work of public health 
departments, urban, rural and industrial hygiene. Many of the chapters include 
suggested experiments, observational work, or supplementary readings. 

The material presented is abundant, vital, interesting, and up-to-date. For 
example the second chapter. Fresh Air and the Prevention of Disease, is an especi- 
ally happy treatment of a most important subject, which is usually inadequately 
treated with antiquated stock remarks on the chemical impurities of expired air, 
the number of cubic feet of fresh air per hour required for each person, etc. 

Verbal illustrations are apt, numerous, and such as are not to be found in texts, 
but could come only from extensive acquaintance with the subject of public health. 

The general aim of the book as stated in the preface — " the author believes in the 
buildmg of character by the school, and that the study and the practice of public 
health will contribute to that end"— is noble in conception, pedagogically sound, 
and ably fulfilled throughout the book. 

The illustrations are widely gathered from various sources, and many of them are 
invaluable. Occasionally, however, one feels inclined to suggest redundancy, or 
even lack of clearness; as in the case of the drawings of the white blood cell (pp. 9 
and 11) the problem, for the uninitiated, would doubtless be, which is the devourer 
and which is the devoured? 

Inaccuracies are exceedingly diiTicult to avoid, in a book of this scope and charac- 
ter; it is perhaps ungracious quibbling to pomt out that not bacteria but yeasts are 
usually the cause of the rising of dough (p. 13); that the method of feeding typhoid 
patients described on page 51 is fast becoming antiquated. 

Many will regret that the case for pasteurization of city milk supplies was not 
made a stronger one, in view of the change of heart which many prominent sani- 
tarians have had concerning the necessity for the pasteurization of even certified 
milk, since the Deerfoot epidemic of 191 1, and similar experiences. 

381 



i82 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

"People who eat well-flavored food will not often feel depressed" (p. 89) is a 
specimen illustration of such looseness and inaccuracy of statement as should be 
avoided. "The acids in fruits purify the food tube" (p. 89) needs further ampli- 
fication and also some careful qualification, in order to present any definite and 
accurate notion to the child's mind. Some of the statements concerning the dietetic 
value of white flour, bread, and sugar as compared with whole wheat bread and 
brown sugar, are certainly misleading. 

Details which would better have been omitted are the picture of the man expec- 
torating (p. 114), the statement as to the nimiber of pounds of manure daily con- 
sumed in Berlin's milk supply, the picture of the mutilated hand (p. 169). Surely 
the lessons thus enforced can be otherwise brought out; we do not wish to make the 
text he uses an object of loathing or disgust to the sensitive child. 

The Child: Its Care, Diet, and Common Ills. By E. Mather Sill, M.D., New 
York: Henrj' Holt and Company, 1913, pp. 207. $1.00. By mail of the Journal 
$1.10. 

There is use in these days for a great variety of books and articles which explain 
clearly and helpfully the various phases of infant and child care. Dr. Sill's book 
presents in brief form a great many useful facts and suggestions about healthy and 
ailing babies. 

Hov.-ever, to one who has thought much about books of greatest efficiency in this 
field, the work imder discussion presents more defects than excellencies. It pre- 
sents the common weaknesses of a book which has apparently been constructed in 
haste by the busy medical practitioner and which so often sets forth an abundance of 
material out of the physician's knowledge and experience, while it seems to fall short 
in many important particulars of the book best suited to the mother's needs. 

The explanations and suggestions are often couched in terms too technical and 
make the text less easily understood and less readily and practically useful for the 
average reader who needs such instruction most. No clear distinction is made 
between the remedies that the mother may safely give in following her own judg- 
ment and those which should be given only on the immediate advice of the physi- 
cian. 

The author makes the mistake of advising too much specific medical treatment of 
disease in conditions where two or more lines of treatment might be of almost equal 
value. With reference to such situations it seems more advantageous for an 
author to point out clearly the mother's responsibility and the general principles of 
treatment so that the mother's mind may be left unprejudiced with reference to any 
rational procedure which the attending phj'sician may advise. 

It is extremely doubtful whether diluted whiskey or brandy should ever be given 
to a child, except upon the physician's direct orders, and instances are very rare when 
diluted brandy or whiskey for the child represents the best prescription available to 
the doctor. 

In discussing treatment of vomiting, the author advocates the use of the stomach 
tube (which can in general be used only by the doctor or a trained nurse) and omits 
the simple expedient of having the baby drink hot water with perhaps a little soda 
in solution, which will wash the stomach out as it is regurgitated. 



1 9 14] Books and Literature 383 

The advice is in places too general, as when the mother is advised to "not allow 
the baby to over exercise" but no clear indication is given of the line between 
wholesome and excessive exercise. 

In another place the author gives the reasons for the employment of a trained 
nurse, and explains why the mother is not a good nurse in illness, but he fails to indi- 
cate what may best be done if the family cannot afford a trained nurse. 

The book is directed too commonly at mothers of wealth to be general, demo- 
cratic or universal enough in its appeal and advice. 

The Mother and the Child. By Norman Bamesby, M.D., New York and Lon- 
don: Mitchell Kenerley, 1913, pp. 186. $1.25. By mail of the Journal, $1.32. 

The use of the pronoun I in the preface gives a promise of a personal touch through- 
out the book which is entirely lacking. The most valuable portions of the book are 
the numerous quotations. "Koplish's sign" is obviously an error. Fifteen pages 
are devoted to Eugenics and ten pages to Medical Inspection of School Children. 
The last chapter is called Common Sense which virtually serves to defend medicine 
and medical men. 

The general scope of the book is so limited that the average mother would secure 
very little information regarding such practical problems as constipation or diarrhea, 
breast-feeding, insomnia, enuresis, disorders of dentition, masturbation, ophthalmia, 
vomiting or convulsions. And all this, despite the fact that the preface states, "My 
professional experience has shown me very plainly that there is great need for a book 
that will give simple but sufficient guidance to parents in all the duties and perplexi- 
ties that concern their parenthood; a book to which they can turn when they are in 
doubt with regard to any ordinary problem affecting their children, in early baby- 
hood or in later life." If this great need existed when the author wrote his book, 
the need still existed when the book was finished. 

The School In the Home : Talks with Parents and Teachers on Intensive 
Child Training. By Adolf A. Berle. New York: Moffat, Yard Company, 1912, 
pp.210. $1.00. By mail of the Journal, $1.12. 

This book has for its basis the inadequacy of the home of the present day to meet 
the intellectual and educational needs of the children. Dr. Berle disclaims all pre- 
tensions as an educator, while he presents in the simplest form the results of educa- 
tional experiments of the greatest importance. He is a scholar, a linguist, a master 
of style, and is on fire with enthusiasm for the possibilities of the home as an educa- 
tional institution and with a consuming indignation at the waste of the most precious 
values in life when those possibilities are not realized. He therefore utters a clarion 
call to all parents to come again or at last into their own, and take over the develop- 
ment and conservation of their children's mental and intellectual capacity as they 
are beginning to conserve their children's physical powers. Dr. Berle describes the 
results of the methods he suggests when employed on considerable numbers of chil- 
dren of varying capacity, not supernormal in any case, from many kinds of homes 
and of varying ages. His suggestion is in essence not radical. It is merely that the 
child's mind should be regarded as seriously as his body, that his speech, the great 
implement of thought, should be trained as his bodily habits are developed and that 



284 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

the food for his mind should be selected as carefully as the food for his digestive 
tract. While not radical in essence, the adoption of these suggestions would revo- 
lutionize most homes among the well-to-do. The author does not mention the place 
which the comic supplement plaj-s in the mental diet of children in innumerable 
homes where a corresponding food would be treated as poison, but rather dwells 
upon the possibility lying before every parent, with the tools now available, of 
supplying his children with the food on which his mind can thrive and his spirit be 
enabled to enter on its rightful heritage. Dr. Berle calls on the home to come into 
its own. 

New Zealand Society for the Health of Women and Children. An example 
of methods of Baby Saving work in small Towns and Rural Districts. U. S. 
Dept. of Labor, Childrens' Bureau, Infant Mortality Series, 1914. No. 2. 

The United States Children's Bureau has recently pointed out what might be 
accomplished in a baby-saving campaign in small towns and rural districts by 
publishing an account of the New Zealand Society for the Health of Women and 
Children. This Society through its local organizations, 70 of which have been 
brought into e.xistence, arranges for nurses' visits in homes, for educational columns 
in the country- papers devoted to questions and answers on the care of babies, and 
other educational work, and has succeeded in reducing the death rate of infants from 
8 per cent in 1900 to 4 per cent in 19 11 and 191 2. What has been done in New Zea- 
land we should do next in America. This bulletin has many suggestions of methods 
for visiting, teaching, and extension work in Home Economics and should be studied 
by aU Home Economics workers in these fields. 

Industrial Education: its Problems, Methods and Dangers. By Albert H. 
Leake. Houghton Mifflin Company, 1913, pp. 205. Si. 25. By mail of the 
Journal, Si.3S- 

This is the Hart, Schaffner and ]Marx prize essay for 191 2. It is a very readable 
and suggestive book. It is divided into three parts as its title suggests. 

In the first part are noted the numerous problems which have grown out of a large 
number of causes operative through the years in our transition from handicraft 
methods to factory methods, from extensive development to intensive development. 
Among the more important elements in the solution of the problems of industrial 
education the following are emphasized: putting the schools on a purely business 
basis; a reorganization of the elementan,' school curriculum giving it a direct indus- 
trial trend and making it correlate more closely with home interests; the provision of 
direct and definite industrial training from fourteen to sixteen for children who must 
become wage earners as soon as possible; the extension and vitalizing of evening 
industrial continuation schools for those in the industries over sixteen: and the 
development of vocational guidance. 

The second part of the book, "Methods," deals largely with an elaboration of the 
problems set forth in the first part. jMuch attention is given to the vitalizing of the 
elementary school curriculum. The shortcomings of manual training are pointed 
out and more practical methods suggested. The aims, purposes, and results of typi- 
cally good schools in this countrj^ and abroad are briefly noted and their vital ele- 
ments emphasized. The revival of apprenticeship and its development in relation- 



1914] Books and Literature 385 

ship and cooperation with industrial continuation schools brings about a most opti- 
mistic solution for the problem of the education of workers in many trades. The 
author advocates the early choice of vocation for the industrial workers and serious 
attention to their proper education and training from an earlier age than is now com- 
mon for the skilled trades. The choice should be made before sixteen in the opinion 
of the author. 

Under " Dangers," two rather common mistakes are discussed. The very expen- 
sive type of building and equipment frequently secured for industrial work may be 
avoided by study of shop needs and conditions in the industries and reproducing the 
best of these as largely as possible for school purposes. The other danger is that 
of attempting too closely to follow or adopt the methods and systems of foreign 
schools. The German schools are especially noted as meeting conditions quite 
unlike those of our own countr>' in many respects. 

The book is a wholesome discussion of the larger problems of industrial education, 
dwelling much more upon underlying principles than upon details of organization 
and development. 

An appendix includes Resolutions adopted by the National Association of Manu- 
facturers of United States of America on May 21, 191 2, declaring themselves in 
favor of a thorough system of industrial education. Following this are a list of 
authors consulted and an index. 

Practical Homemaking: A Text Book for Young Housekeepers. By Mabel 
Hyde Kittredge. New York: The Century Company, 1914, pp. 146. $0.60. 
By mail of the Journal, $0.65. 

This book was written with a definite purpose in mind and it gives promise of ful- 
filling that purpose well. Miss Kittredge has for years been at the head of The 
Association of Practical Housekeeping Centers, and has planned this book to be 
used as a text book in such model homes as those included under her management. 
"This book is designed for girls in their first year of domestic science studies. It 
contains a complete year's course in homemaking, and is to be followed by a more 
advanced second year course." The author divides her subject broadly into hygiene, 
both personal and household, the care of the house and person, food and its prepa- 
ration, with a short space devoted to the lighter touches of life such as table eti- 
quette. The subject matter in all lessons is valuable, and for the most part pre- 
sented clearly and simply. There might be a slight difference of opinion as to the 
advisability of the use of even the simplest technical terms in the lessons on food, 
and it would be wise for a teacher using this book to translate such terms in the 
course of her instruction. 

The opening chapter. Household Hygiene and Furnishing is particularly good, and, 
to one who has spent a great deal of time in the homes of the average working man, 
Miss Kittredge's plea for simplicity in furnishing will be very grateful. The other 
chapters on household furnishing are also valuable, and ought to bring definite 
results in improvement of conditions in the homes of the girls using this book. The 
chapters on personal hygiene are equally important, although for an ordinary school 
course they might well be separated from the other lessons. In this connection, 
however, one must remember the very specialized character of the book. Under 
the conditions prevailing in these model homes it is quite possible to present a sub- 
ject more informally than in the class-room. 



^86 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

The chapters on food and its preparation are more in outline than is necessary. 
The subject is treated with care, but it would seem possible to go more into detail 
in the matter of family dietaries. The chapter on Food Values is very good, and 
the only suggestions to be made are the one already noted about technical terms, and 
the one concerning more detail. 

The preparation of food has to do with cocoa, tea and coffee, toasts, cereals, vege- 
tables and eggs. The lack noted in this list being that of meat. 

The author's intimate knowledge of living conditions in New York stands her in 
good stead, and she gives some valuable hints in the matter of tenement house 
laws, care of garbage, etc. There is also an appendix giving the equipment suitable 
for furnishing a model housekeeping flat or a home for five persons. This list is 
excellent and practical. In conclusion one would say that the book is a valuable 
addition to any library of Home Economics, and would make a good gift for any 
young girl or housekeeper. 

Furnishing the Home of Good Taste. By Lucy Abbot Throop. New York: 
McBride, Nast and Company, 1912, pp. 220, illus. $2.00. By mail of the 
Journal, $2.16. 

In this book the author gives a very brief outline of the development of ?^yle in 
furniture and furnishing from ancient times through the eighteenth century. In 
this r6s'im6 the author dwells longest on the Queen Anne and the Georgian periods, 
which is eminently proper, as those were the days when things were done which are 
closest in accord with our modem American spirit. The illustrations for the book 
are half tones from photographs and as a whole are well chosen. The book is in no 
way a guide to collectors but the author says "is meant to try to help a little about 
the modem side of the question," and so she gives a "general talk" on furnishings, 
then others on Georgian, French and Croftsman furnishings, country houses, the 
nursery, porch curtains and rugs, and concludes with a fairly complete bibliography 
on the subject of period styles and general house furnishings. 

This is a splendid ending to the book, for its contents should arouse enough 
interest in the general reading public for them to demand more detailed information 
such as the books in this list will afford. 

The Twentieth Century Book for the Progressive Baker, Confectioner, 
Ornamenter, and Ice Cream Maker. By Fritz L. Gienandt, Boston, pp. 
200, pis. 57. $6. By mail of Journal, $6.15. 

The author calls it "The most Up-to-Date and Practical Book of its Kind." 
He stated in his preface. "It is written solely for the purpose of elevating the 
Bakery Trade in this country to a higher standard, nothing that would be of use to 
the American Baker has been retained by myself, and a great many things that are 
of no value have been eliminated." 

It gives directions and suggestions for simple or very elaborate fancy cooking, 
including the following: plain and puff paste, pies and pie fillings, tartlets, frosted 
squares, cream puffs and eclairs, butter cake with many variations, sponge and 
angel cake, cookies, macaroons, short cakes, meringues, kisses, waffles, pan cakes, 
sweetened breads, including such things as coffee cakes, tea rings, etc., honey cakes, 
plum puddings, custards, icings, jellies and jams, ice creams and sherbets, and soda 
fountain syrups. 



1914I Books and Literature 387 

The puff paste, fancy ornamented cakes and breads are excellently illustrated and 
there are several full page plates of ornamental frosting with a description for each 
plate. All recipes are in large enough proportion for commercial purposes. 

Recipes and Menus for Fifty as Used in the School of Domestic Science of 

the Boston Young Women's Christian Association. By Frances L. Smith. 

Boston: Whitcomb & Barrows, 1913, pp. x + 246. $1.50. By mail of the 

Journal, $i.6o. 

Although this compilation of recipes was published primarily for the use of the 
author's students, it is designed to be of practical value to others concerned with 
the preparation of food for large numbers of persons. The amounts of food indi- 
cated were intended to suffice for women at light muscular work and, therefore, may 
need modification for persons of other dietary requirements. 

Massachusetts Boys and Girls Home Economics Clubs: Primer of In- 
struction. By Laura Comstock and Ethel Nash. Amherst: Massachusetts 
Agricultural College, 1914, pp. 40. 

The pamphlet contains rules and regulations for clubs, suggestions to parents and 
leaders; a list of helpful United States bulletins; simple recipes and directions for 
cooking; instruction in proper methods for preparing meals, canning, cleaning, 
sewing, and caring for children; and a sample report card to be filled out by each 
child. The totals are transferred to a monthly report card sent to the Agricultural 
College imder whose supervision the clubs are conducted. 

The Conquest of the Tropics. By Frederick Upham Adams. New York: 
Doubleday, Page and Company, 1914, pp. xii + 368, illus. $2. By mail of the 
Journal, $2.30. 

This is a well printed and well illustrated book giving the history of the rise and 
present methods of the United States Fruit Company. It is especially the history 
of the cultivation of the banana in Central America. This fruit, a great curiosity in 
our northern markets even forty years ago, was then a small and uncertain crop in 
the West Indies and Central America, and only through northern enterprise has it 
become a regular crop raised over an extensive territory which has been rescued from 
the jungle by railroads and the enforcement of sanitary measures. If anything re- 
mains of the once current belief that the banana plucked from the tree is superior to 
what is offered in our markets it is demolished by Mr. Adams' statement that this fruit 
must be picked green and ripened artificially even for home consumption. In giving 
deserved credit to the enterprising men who developed this business Mr. Adams 
omits to mention the great names in science whose labors have made possible the 
control of tropical diseases, without which control business enterprise in those 
regions would have been impossible 

The Cost of Living. Philadelphia: American Academy Political and Social 
Science, 1913, pp. vi -f 265. Paper, $1.00; Cloth, $1.50. By mail of the Journal, 
$1.10 or $i.6o. 
A collection of papers delivered before the American Academy of Political and 

Social Science. The four general topics considered were wage standards, family 

standards, public services and control, and concrete measures for reducing the cost 

of living. 



288 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

Among the individual papers may be mentioned the following : Scientific Manage- 
ment in Home Making, by Mrs. F. A. Pattison; Utilization of the Family Income, 
by Mrs. Martha B. Bruere; Municipal Markets in their Relation to the Cost of 
Living, by C. C. Miller; Commimal Benefits from the Public Control of Terminal 
Markets, by Mrs. E. Black; Relation of Cold Storage to the Food Supply and the 
Consumer, by Mary E. Pennington; and The Housekeeper and the Cost of Living, 
by Martha Van Rensselaer. 

Reducing the Cost of Food Distribution. Philadelphia: American Academy 

Political and Social Science, 1913, pp. vi + 272. Paper, $1.00; Cloth, $1.50. By 

mail of the Journal, $1.10 or $1.70. 

A second collection of papers delivered before the American Academy of PoHtical 
and Social Science. These are grouped under six general topics: more efficient 
distribution and conservation of foodstuffs, lower costs through the middlemen, 
lower costs through municipal and direct marketing, lower costs through farm credits, 
lower costs through cooperation, and a constructive program for lower distribution 
costs. 

BOOKS RECEIVED 

Your Child To-day and To-morrow. By Sidonie Gruenberg. Philadelphia and 
London: J. B. Lippincott Company, 1913, pp. 234, pis. 12. $1.25. By mail of 
the Journal, $1.35. 

The Young Mother's Handbook. By Marianna Wheeler. New York: Harper 
Brothers, 1914, pp. 165. $1.00. By mail of the Journal, $1.05. 

The Young Folks Book of Etiquette. By Caroline S. Griffin. Chicago: A. 
Flanigan and Company, 1905, pp. 84. $0.35. By mail of the Journal, $0.40. 

The Vocational Guidance of Youth. By Meyer Bloomfield. New York: 
Houghton, Miflflin Company, 191 1, pp. 123. $0.60. By mail of the Journal, 
$0.65. 

Vocational Training. Philadelphia: Associate Collegiate .\lumnae, 1913, pp. 137. 
Paper, $0.50. By mail of the Journal, $0.55. 

Ten Sex Talks to Girls. By I. D. Steinhardt, M.D. Philadelphia: J. B. Lip- 
pincott, 1914, pp. 193. $1.00. By mail of the Journal, $1.05. 

Ten Sex Talks to Boys. By I. D. Steinhardt, M.D. Philadelphia: J. B. Lippin- 
cott, 1914, pp. 187. $1.00. By mail of the Journal, $1.10. 

Women in Science. ByH. J. Mogans. New York and London: D. Appleton 
and Company, 1913, pp. 452. $2.50. By mail of the Journal, $2 65. 

Hair and Its Preservation. By Richard W. Miiller. New York: William R. 
Jenkins Company, pp. 154. $1.40. By mail of the Journal, $1.50. 

Textiles. By William H. Dooley. Boston: D. C. Heath and Company, pp. 320. 
Si 25. By mail of the Journal $1.36. 

The Lighting Book. By F. Laurent Godinez. New York: McBride, Nast and 
Company, 1913, pp. 109. $1.25. By mail of the Journal, $1.35. 

Making Built-in Furniture. By Abbot McClure. New York: McBride, Nast 
and Company, 1914, pp. 52. 80.50. By mail of the Journal, $0.55. 

Dishes and Beverages of the Old South. By Martha McCulloch-Williams. 
New York: McBride, Nast and Company, 1913, pp. 317. $1.25. By mail of 
the Journal, $1.35. 

Modern Industry. By Florence Kelley. New York: Longmans, Green and Com- 
pany, 1914, pp. 147. $1.00. By mail of the Journal, $1.10. 
Checking the Waste. By Mary Huston Gregorj-. Indianapolis : Bobbs-Merrill 
Company, 191 1, pp. 318. $1.25. By mail of the Journal, $1.35. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 

Home Economics Association of Washington, D. C. On April 7 a meeting 
was held at which time the oflicers were elected for the ensuing year. After a 
short business meeting conducted by the former president, Miss Entmia S. Jacobs, 
the speakers of the afternoon were announced. 

Miss Eliza Lord of the Dolly Madison House, gave a most interesting talk on 
The Relation of the Modem Woman to the Productive World. She compared 
the position of woman and hereconomic value in the home, a few generations back 
and today and spoke also of the tendency of modem woman to lessen her responsi- 
bilities as she is no longer actually forced to assume them. Owing to changing 
conditions her place is not now that of a co-worker to obtain the material com- 
forts of home, but rather the receiver of these things. The ability of women is 
being constantly recognized, however, by the great work done by them, as individ- 
uals, when carrj'ing out scientific, or other lines of work. 

The second speaker was Dr. Cora King, and her subject was What the Higher 
Education of Woman Has Contributed to the Efticiency of the Home. Compari- 
sons were made between past and present methods, and the efficiency of them. 

On June 2 another regular meeting of the Association was held, the subject for 
discussion being reconstmction in the Homes of the Poor. The following speakers 
told of their work in Washington: Miss Ufford of the Associated Charities, Miss 
Strong of the Instructive Visiting Nurse Society, and Miss Wheeler, Superintendent 
of Diet Kitchen. 

The meeting then adjourned imtil October 6, at which meeting Miss Julia C. 
Lalhrop is to speak. 

New England Home Economics Association. The annual meeting was held 
at Simmons College, Saturday, IMay 16. The subjects of the morning were: 
The Needs of the Immigrant Child, Rev. Edward Cummings; What the Schools 
are Doing for the Immigrant Child, Miss Marie G. Lundberg. 

Luncheon was ser\'ed at the College at i p.m. In the aftemoon there was a 
business meeting and an address on What We Can Do and Are Going to Do, by 
Mrs. Eva W. White, President. 

The Home Economics Association of Philadelphia. A year ago the Home 
Economics Association of Philadelphia adopted a new constitution. This seemed 
advisable because of the greater possibilities for work in the various public activities 
relating to the borne. At the annual meeting a sjTiopsis of the year's work was 
given by the president. All felt that the time had been well spent. 

The opening meeting took place at the Sixth Annual Conference of the Home and 
School League when the chairmen of the standing committees began the discussion 
which followed Dr. Abby L. ilarlatt's address on Humanics. Dr. Marlatt's 
address was a wonderful stimulus to all. From the interest displayed by our mem- 
bers in the year's work we feel that it has been instrumental in awakening us to many 
problems of the home. 

389 



^go The Journal of Home Economics [October 

Each standing committee arranged at least one meeting during the year. Train- 
ing in Citizenship. Control of Food Wastes, School Lunch Movement, and Art, the 
Power in our Environment were some of the subjects under discussion. Several 
sectional meetings were held between the regular monthly meetings. 

At each meeting a member of the Current Topics Committee made a report of 
magazine articles, special books and bulletins of interest. They also called our 
attention to important meetings. Copies of the bibliography were printed and 
given to each member. 

This year we plan to make an intensive study of Budget Making. The sugges- 
tion is that the Association as a whole study the budget in its relation to the home, 
the institution, and possibly the municipality, throwing emphasis on the sides most 
in line with our immediate interests. In connection with this plan we expect to 
organize two study classes. One will take up dietetics, with especial reference to 
the economic aspects. The other class will study the literature and work done on 
the family budgets. In this connection they will study expenditures for textiles. 

Washington Home Economics Association. The State of Washington has a 
very flourishing Home Economics Section in connection with the Washington State 
Teachers' Association. Last October at the meeting in Spokane, the enthusiasm 
was so great that the section decided to have in addition to the regular fall meeting 
an annual spring meeting. The first session of the spring meeting was held at Pull- 
man at the State College of Washington on April 17 and 18. The aim of that 
meeting was to discuss and formulate recommendations toward the standardization 
of Home Economics within the State of Washington. Another subject which we 
are working on is the probable introduction of the right kind of art training into 
the public schools of Washington. These subjects will both be discussed at the 
October meeting in Tacoma. 

The officers of the section for the year are: President, Miss Agnes Houston Craig, 
head of the Department of Home Economics at the State College of Washington, 
and Secretary, Miss Bond, head of the Home Economics work at the Lewis and 
Clark High School, Spokane. 

The session at Spokane was of unusual interest for the reason that the second 
vocational conference of the Northwest met at the State College at the same time 
and in cooperation with the Home Economics people emphasized vocational ideas 
along Home Economics lines. 

Michigan Home Economics Association. The fourth annual meeting of this 
association was held in Detroit, May 29 and 30 in the Twentieth Century Club 
Building, where the members of the Detroit Home Economics Association were 
most cordial hostesses. 

The program included addresses on dietetics, house decoration, design, etc., by 
Michigan educators and Home Economics workers from other states. Music also 
added to the pleasure of those in attendance. 

The addresses were most inspiring, aU of them leading toward the idea of greater 
recognition and hence greater fields of usefulness for our subject. The idea that our 
field is bounded only by life, and that it lies with us as workers in the field to widen 
one's own ideas to the greatest possibilities was constant^ brought out. 

The thoughts were summed up by Miss Lord of Pratt Institute who was the 
speaker for Saturday afternoon. She gave many suggestions for openings for help- 



1914] News from the Field 391 

fulness aside from teaching. " Knowledge means responsibility in all life, not alone 
teaching power. We must teach right living in school, home, and in the commercial 
world." 

The election of officers followed. The next meeting will be held at the time of 
the State Teachers' Association Meeting, the latter part of October, at Kalamazoo, 
Michigan. 

Converse College, Spartanburg, S. C. The new department of Home 
Economics will have as its head Miss Catherine Mulligan, formerly Dean of 
Women and Professor of Home Economics at the University of Tenne-^.see. 

A part of the Science Building will be devoted to the Home Economics work. 
The work will be given for the first year under the two divisions of food and 
nutrition; shelter and household management. The domestic arts will be omitted 
for the present. 

The Domestic Arts Course in the Meriden, Conn., High School. This 
course, which was introduced this year under Miss .\lice B. Eoote as supervisor, is 
designed to meet the need of the average adolescent girl who should learn values 
with reference to money, time, energy, health and happiness. 

Sewing is taught for three years because this subject requires so much skiU if it 
is to be accomplished successfully. Millinery is taught in the Sophomore year. 
The renovating of silk, velvet, ribbons, feathers, etc., is taken up in this connection 
as hats are made over for a New York Clothing Bureau. In these courses talks 
are given on the relation of color, line, and spacing, and also on health and morals 
as affected by clothes. The Consiuners' League and the Woman's E.xchange are also 
considered. Mathematics is used wherever possible in the calculation of materials 
needed, spacing for tucks, width of ruffle, plaited skirts, etc. 

Cooking is taught in all four years, but is taken up from different standpoints. 
Simple cooking and serving with reference to the cost of breakfast, dinner, supper 
and lunch box are taken up in the Freshman year. Food principles, care of food, 
hygiene of materials, market conditions and cost problems are given especial atten- 
tion. 

The Sophomore course brings cooking into its relation to the household as a center 
of social living. Service in general is used as an expression of courtesy; household 
service as a form of education. Table manners and etiquette in entertaining and 
in the family circle are considered — the etiquette of those served and of those who 
serve. The girls give entertaiimients to other members of the school. 

The Junior girls have invalid cookery in connection with ordinarj' first aids to 
the injured; also the care of those seriously ill and convalescing. 

The Household Economics course for the Junior girls deals with the income and 
its division into percentages for food, clothing, shelter, operating expenses and higher 
life. The students select furniture for a home, and have lectures on arrangement, 
convenience, color combination, etc. Notes are given on income, rent, social 
problems related to dress, sweat shops, factory work, the close relation between 
industry and household, household and state, vocations, schools, servant problem, 
etc. Budgets are made out after the study of textiles has been taken up, and food is 
studied in relation to market conditions and income. 

In the Senior class the care and feeding of children and the balancing of meals for 
all ages is taken up. In order to teach the economy of food and to help the cooking 



-^Q2 TJte Journal of Home Economics [October 

courses to be self supporting, all the food cooked is transferred to the lunch room 
where it is sold, and the Domestic Science Department is paid for the cost of the 
materials. In this way the cooking courses help the school and the school gives a 
real motive for good results. 

The merchants in town have given lectures on How to Buy, and have added a 
great deal to the success of the course. 

University of Missouri. There has been held this summer, in connection with 
the Agricultural E.xtension Ser\^ice, 48 one-week schools in Home Economics. 
These schools have been organized this year in twelve different counties. About 
fifteen young women are doing teaching, going out for periods var>'ing from one 
to eight weeks in length. In general, they stay for only one week at each place. 
There are general lists of subjects which were sent out and from which the women 
of the local schools selected the topics which they wished to have treated. The 
most popular subjects were: bread-making, canning, cooking meats, cooking of 
vegetables, house sanitation, and feeding children. The attendance at each of 
these schools has averaged from 60 to 80 each day. Since each school lasts five to 
six days one can easily see how many women can be reached in this way. 

This summer is the first that these schools have been held on such an extensive 
scale. Last summer twelve such schools were held in one county. The success of 
these seemed to warrant an extension this year. AU of the teachers came to the 
University for a week of conference and preparation before starting out on their 
work. This work has been done under the direct supervision of Miss May C. 
McDonald, Extension Lecturer of the Department of Home Economics in coopera- 
tion with the Farm Management Department of the University of Missouri. The 
County Farm Advisers in the respective counties were responsible for the organiza- 
tion of the schools in the local commimities. 

School of Household Arts, University of Cincinnati. The School of House- 
hold Arts was established in 1908 under the auspices of the Cincinnati Kindergarten 
Association; on July i, 1914, it became a part of the University of Cincinnati, 
under the direction of Ann Gilchrist Strong. The school aims to give scientific 
instruction in the fundamental principles and practices of activities growing out of 
private and institutional housekeeping, with a view to increasing the eflSciency 
of those desiring to enter a vocation or engage in a business dependent upon a 
knowledge of such subjects as dietetics and food economics, textiles and clothing. 
The courses offered are fundamental to teaching, administration, and the business 
practice of household arts and sciences. 

Students are admitted (a) as candidates for the B.S. degree, (b) as candidates for 
diploma, or (c) as special students. 

Candidates for the B.S. degree in the School of Household Arts must be at least 
sixteen years of age, and will be admitted to the University on certificate from an 
accredited high school or preparatory school, or by examination. Students admitted 
on certificate must have completed satisfactorily an amount of preparator>- study 
represented by sixteen units, including four units in household arts. 

Commencement of the Garland School of Homemaking. That the train- 
ing of girls for homemaking has a secure hold on the interests of a community is 
evidenced by the high character of the speakers on the subject who appear at the 



19 14] News from the Field 393 

commencement season. The girls of the graduating class at the Garland School 
of Homemaking, Boston, were addressed by Dr. Richard C. Cabot and Dr. M. 
J. Rosenau of the Harvard Medical School and Prof. Henr>' C. Metcalf of Tufts 
College. 

Dr. Cabot dwelt on the qualities that fit a woman for comradeship and team work, 
especially on her power as a conservator of all that has been won by civilization and 
which we shall lose without the conserving hand. 

Dr. Rosenau spoke on health as one of the essentials of the successful home; on 
prevention as the watch word of the hour and the responsibility of the home in this 
regard, the ignorance of the woman being the chief factor in infant mortality. He 
held that a grasp of the new responsibilities enobles housework, makes homes better, 
cleaner and happier. 

Professor Metcalf held that the world has so far advanced in its conquest over the 
problems of material wealth that the function of the homemaker in creating the 
right kind of home atmosphere is her most important r61e. He held, however, that 
the homemaker must more and more bear in mind the fact that home and society 
are a vital part each of the other, that she must use her influence in shaping the 
industrial world into which her children will enter. Our unscientific modes of 
consumption of food, clothes, books, tools, utensils, amusements, the speaker felt, 
reacted injuriously on production; that the art of home-spending is today in a back- 
ward state since the sciences most helpful, as physiology and psychology, are unde- 
veloped and cannot aid as physics and chemistr>' do in production. 

Home Economics at Commencement Time. In at least one high school the 
members of the Home Economics classes gave a good account of themselves on 
the commencement stage. At Sparks, Maryland, the members of the cooking 
class presented the Principles of Cooking for Invalids, and had attractive trays 
on exhibition. 

It was thought that the class illustrated its work as effectively, and by the same 
methods as did the veterinary class in applying the tuberculin test to a cow in the 
presence of assembled farmers. 

Thanksgiving Meeting of Home Economics Teachers. A meeting of high 
school Home Economics teachers is to be held in Chicago at Hj'de Park High 
School, November 27 and 28, 1914. The Central Association of Science and Mathe- 
matics Teachers, a well-known organization of college and high school teachers, 
has recently established a section for us. Although detailed statements as to 
program cannot be given at this date, the following annoimcements can be defi- 
nitely made. 

The general subject of the meeting in all sections is Development of Applied 
Science in High School Teaching. Papers are to be presented in chemistr>', physics 
and other subjects which will be of interest to Home Economics teachers. 

A general meeting occurs on Friday morning, Xovember 2 7 ; one of the features 
of this program is an address by Miss Martha Van Rensselaer of Cornell University 
on The Place of Home Economics in Secondary Education. 

Friday afternoon occurs the round table for the Home Economics section. One of 
the subjects to be discussed is Housekeeping Courses; Miss Bemice Allen, of the 
School of Education, University of Chicago, and Miss Agnes Wilson, teacher of 
Chicago Stockyards Housekeeping Center, will lead in this discussion. 



394 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

Saturday morning the subject, Mutual Relations to be Established between Home 
and School Laboratory, is to be presented by Mrs. Wm. S. Hefferan of Chicago, 
speaking for the interested mother; and School Credit for Home Work in Home 
Economics will be discussed by a teacher who has had successful experience in 
securing such work. A talk will be given by Miss Agnes Hanna, School of Educa- 
tion, University of Chicago, on Suggestions for Teaching Drafting of Dress 
Patterns in High School. 

An excellent series of moving picture films to illustrate textile manufacturing 
processes, presented under the auspices of the Marshal Field firm, is promised 
for Saturday afternoon. 

Other features of the section meetings will be: An exhibit of notebooks, to which 
all are cordially invited to contribute; an exhibit of text-books and other literature, 
charts and illustrative material; an exhibition of up-to-date household appliances. 
Also we are to discuss the question of the establishment of a journal for high school 
teachers of Home Economics, or, what is more probable, a department for them in 
cormection with some already established journal. 

Further announcements will appear in November and December numbers of 
School Science, the official organ of the Central Association of Science and Mathe- 
matics Teachers. 

Will you not lend us your presence, your interest, your suggestions, and the 
support of your membership? 

Committee on organization: Minna C. Denton, Ohio State University; Jenny H. 
Snow, Chicago Normal College; Bemice .Allen, University of Chicago; Mildred Weig- 
ley, De Kalb Normal; Julia Tear, Hyde Park High School, Chicago; Mrs. Hubbell, 
Englewood High School, Chicago. 

Household Science in Canada. At the closing exercises of the school year 
at Macdonald College, Miss Fisher, head of the School of Household Science, re- 
ported that the demand for graduates was rapidly increasing, especially in the 
hospitals of Canada. 

Extension work through the formation of clubs among the housewives of 
the rural districts is under the leadership of Miss Campbell. In addition to the 
study of domestic science these clubs number among their activities the estab- 
lishment of rest rooms in the villages and towns for the farmers' wives and 
daughters, and the improvement of rural schools. For the benefit of these clubs 
a traveling library of 140 volumes has been secured, while the school has also 
offered a short course every Februar>' for club members and others. 

Ruralzing the Cities. Under this title the June number of the Journal of 
Agriculture and Horticulture published by the Department of Agriculture of the 
Province of Quebec, reports that Professor Shortt, Chairman of the Dominion Civil 
Ser\'ice Commission, discussed the problem of the increasing urban population in 
Canada. Professor Shortt believes that the remedy lies in the taxation of the 
unearned increment, the money to be spent in surburban development. The im- 
provement in transportation will soon make it possible to use large areas about 
cities of 15, 20 or even 50 miles radius for the homes of city workers, where each 
family woiJd have an acre or two for the growing of garden produce and the pro- 
duction of milk and poultrj'. Under present conditions of living it is impossible 



1 9 14] News from the Field 395 

to grow strong virile people, so different arc these conditions from those under 
which man developed for thousands of years in the open before the advent of cities. 
This is much more true of the densely peopled cities of the United States. The 
movement to establish homes in the more distant suburbs should be encouraged 
by all agencies interested in the improvement of living conditions. But the 
achievement of satisfactory country homes for city people of average means is not 
an easy matter. We have our Garden Cities or the beginning of them in Forest 
Hills on Long Island and in Roland Park, Baltimore but they are for the well-to- 
do. England's garden cities which combine beauty, convenience, and cheapness 
have been built up near manufacturing centers. 

Amherst Conference on Rural Community Planning. The several organ- 
izations and individuals in Massachusetts interested in Community Planning met 
for the Fifth Annual Conference July 28 to August i, 1914. 

Plans for conducting the Conference were much the same as in previous years. 
Section meetings of interest to certain groups were held each forenoon, round 
table discussions of topics of general interest were held each afternoon, and the 
evenings were given over to more formal lectures touching social and economic 
problems. The meetings were held in the open air as far as possible. Methods of 
teaching organized play and recreation were given each afternoon. Special con- 
ferences to take up topics not finished in regular meetings were arranged each 
day on request. 

Teachers, clergymen, village improvement association officers, grange officers, 
boards of health, town officials, librarians and other men and women interested in 
problems of community development attended, took part in the discussions, and 
told what their communities had done. 

The Conference was made possible by the following agencies cooperating in the 
preparation of the program : The Massachusetts Agricultural CoUege, The Exten- 
sion Service, Prof. William D. Hurd, Director, Amherst; The State Board of Educa- 
tion Dr. David Snedden, Commissioner, Boston; The Massachusetts State Grange 
Mrs. George S. Ladd, Lecturer, Sturbridge; The State Board of Health, Dr. Mark W. 
Richardson, Secretary, Boston; The Massachusetts Civic League, Mr. E. T. Hart- 
man, Secretary, Boston; The Massachusetts Federation of Churches, Rev. E. T. 
Root, Secretary', Boston; The Free Public Library Commission, Mr. Charles Belden, 
Chairman, Boston; The New England Home Economics Association, Mrs. Eva W. 
WTiite, President, Boston. 

Graduate Work in Home Economics. A recent inquiry from the Amerika 
Institute at Berlin asks whether there are opportunities for graduate study in 
American institutions in the field of Home Economics. In reply, information 
was sent as to the degree granted by Chicago University in 1906 to Miss Edna 
D. Day for her thesis on Changes in Starch in the Cooking Process, and as to the 
degrees given in related scientific fields of physiological chemistry, food chemistry, 
bacteriology, economics and sociology and other related subjects in many American 
universities, as at Yale, Columbia, Chicago, Illinois, Wisconsin, and elsewhere. 
One may note in this connection the steady progress which graduate work in Home 
Economics is now making. Twenty colleges and universities now grant the degree 
of Master of Arts or Master of Science for special work in Home Economics. While 



xg6 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

the University of Chicago is the only university granting the Doctorate in the 
department of Household Administration, as indicated above, this advanced degree 
may be taken in many institutions in scientific work which has a direct relation to 
the household. As a matter of record a statement may be given as to five 
doctorates conferred in the department of Physiological Chemistry at Yale Univer- 
sity, to persons now university teachers in Home Economics, as follows: 

Mary Davies Swartz Rose (Mrs. A. R. Rose), Ph.D. 1909. Thesis: Nutrition 
investigations on the carbohydrates of lichens, algae, and related substances. 

Alice Frances Blood, Ph.D. 19 10. Thesis: The proteolytic enzymes in certain 
plants. 

Louise Stanley, Ph.D. 1911. Thesis: The occurrence of purine enzymes in the 
tissues of invertebrates and lower vertebrates. 

Amy Louise Daniels, Ph.D. 191 2. Thesis: Fat-transport and metabolism, stud- 
ies with the aid of soluble dye. 

Ruth Wheeler, Ph.D. 1913. Thesis: Feeding experiments with mice. 

Vocational Guidance. To organize a movement to persuade young women 
and school girls, who now enter business, to study for home industries; to establish 
a system of visiting professions or trades; to offer these trades to the homes, and 
to ask the cooperation of those desiring such assistance is the plan offered by Mrs. 
Mary Shailer of New York, for meeting the needs of the young women of today. 

Mrs. Shailer suggests a school where girls will be instructed in such visiting 
vocations as house management, decorating, cleaning, sewing, hair dressing, nursing, 
secretarial work, etc. High schools and other schools should provide similar training. 

Arrangements would also be made for a registration bureau for bringing together 
the girls and the homes needing their assistance. 

The American Association For the Study and Prevention of Infant 
Mortality. The Fifth Annual Meeting of the Association will be held in Boston, 
November 12-14. The program will include sessions arranged by the committees 
on nursing and social work, pediatrics, vital and social statistics, obstetrics, and 
public school education. The subjects to be discussed will include: Prenatal Care, 
The Need for Increased and Improved Maternity Hospital Service, Institutional 
Mortality, Continuation Schools of Home-Making. 

The session on nursing and social work and the joint session on pediatrics and 
vital and social statistics will be held at the Harvard Medical School. All other 
sessions will be held at the Copley Plaza Hotel. 

Special clinics will be held on the opening day of the meeting at the Harvard Medi- 
cal School and elsewhere, the exact time and place to be announced later. 

An exhibit will be held in connection with the meeting. 

The Chairman of the Committee on Local Arrangements is Dr. Hugh Cabot, 87 
Marlboro Street, Boston, Massachusetts. 

Further information or circulars in regard to the work of the Association can be 
secured from the Executive Secretary, 1211 Cathedral Street, Baltimore, Maryland. 

Notice. The Fourth International Congress on Home Education, scheduled to 
convene in the City of Philadelphia, under the auspices of the International Com- 
mission on Congresses on Home Education and Parent-Teacher Unions, September 
22-29, 1914. has been temporarily postponed. Date will be determined by the 



1914] Proceedings of Seventh Annual Meeting 397 

Central Committee, a meeting of which will be called by Dr. Martin G.Brumbaugh, 
President of the Congress, as soon as events warrant the same. 

Mrs. Joseph R. Wilson, Chairman of Committee on the Convention of Safety, 
arranged as a part of the Fourth International Congress on Home Education, 
announces that the Convention of Safety will be held as scheduled although the 
Congress has been temporarily postponed. The Convention of Safety is under 
the auspices of the Home and School League of Philadelphia of which Mrs. Edwin 
C. Grice is President. 

PROCEEDINGS OF THE SEVENTH ANNUAL MEETING 
OF THE AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIA- 
TION. WESTERN RESERVE UNIVERSITY. CLEVE- 
LAND, OHIO. JUNE 30-JULY 3, 1914 

The first session of the annual meeting was called together in the Florence Hark- 
ness Chapel (where all the general sessions were held) at 2 p.m. on Tuesday, June 30, 
by the President, Miss Sarah Louise Arnold. Miss Arnold greeted the members 
of the Association, briefly outlined the broader purposes to be served by the pro- 
gram, and urged all those present to interest themselves not only in those parts of 
the program that directly concerned their specific work, but also in those parts that 
seemed to them unrelated. 

Miss Mary E. Parker, head of the Department of Household Administration, 
then welcomed the Association briefly, outlining the histor>^ of the organization of 
the department, new this year. 

Dr. Charles F. Thwing, president of Western Reserve University, endorsed Miss 
Parker's welcome. 

Dr. Harris R. Cooley, Director of Public Welfare for Cleveland, offered the city's 
welcome. Dr. Cooley gave a spirited and inspiring account of what the " City of 
Good Will" is doing for its poor, its crippled, its sick, physically, mentally and 
morally. 

Miss Arnold then announced the general plan of the meeting, that only two gen- 
eral sessions were arranged each day, and that in the free time of the day special 
conferences on specific interests would be held, at the call of the chairmen. She 
appointed the following chairmen: 

Housekeeper's Conference, Dr. B. R. Andrews; Research Conference, Miss Agnes 
Hunt; Conference of Heads of Departments, Miss Katherine McKay; Domestic 
Art Conference, Mrs. Bessie Birdsall; Conference on Extension Work, Mrs. Mary P. 
VanZile; Elementary Schools Conference on Cookery, Miss Cora Winchell. (Later 
there were organized conferences on Agricultural College Work and one for editors of 
Home Economics departments of farm papers.) 

Committee reports were then presented as follows : 

Committee on Housekeepers' Section: This committee has been in existence so 
short a time that it has been able to accomplish little more than to assist in preparing 
the program for the Housekeepers' Section of this meeting, and, to begin the work of 
bringing the Journal and the homemaker in closer touch. This latter aim it seems 
to us might well be a definite part of the plan for next year's work, since each can be 
most helpful to the other. The housewife can supply criticism and suggestions, 
which develop from her practical knowledge of varied conditions and situations and 



398 The Journal oj Home Economics [October 

can give the results of careful experiments in the many fields of her labor. The 
Journal might concentrate for a time on the needs of the homemaker, and give to 
her the results of scientific experiments in terms with which she is familiar. The 
opportunity for technical training in the household arts is of so recent a date that only 
a small percentage of our home makers are familiar with the scientific terms. This 
committee has worked and might well continue to work for the "EUen H. Richards 
Memorial Fund." Since Mrs. Richards has done so much for the upbuilding of the 
home, special emphasis should be placed on this phase of our work,not only as a token 
of gratitude, but as a tribute to a pioneer whose inspiration is felt in every civilized 
country. In view of the fact that this is the youngest department of the Association, 
we ask the cooperation of all the other departments in order to insure the greatest 
possible success. 

Mrs. Schuyler D. Herron, Chairman. 

Editorial Board of the Journal: With each issue of the Journal we have presented 
the best we have been able to bring together for the help of the teacher of regular 
school courses, who must always be the first care of the Journal, and also for the 
advanced or extension courses for housekeepers to whom we have given additional 
attention this past year. Material of this latter character has appeared in every 
number of the Journal since it started, but in February we began to put it together 
in a separate section, and to treat a larger number of topics popularly and briefly. 
This we have caUed the Housekeepers' Department, an experiment to be discon- 
tinued at any time if it should seem best to do so. 

We do not consider it a success yet and we have earnestly sought, as many 
of you have had reason to know, for criticism that may help us to improve it. 
We have tried to foUow one rule, that is, to group different instances under 
a general principle. We have also tried to give continuous information in each issue 
on some one topic of present interest, as Cooperative Buying. The topic that we 
hope to concentrate on next year is a comparison of the cost of doing work 
in and out of the house. Whether as a result of this department we are to 
get more subscriptions from housekeepers it is too early to state; three issues 
is only a begiiming. But we have been assured by many teachers that they make 
use of this new department in their classes. This is unexpected good news. 

But we are not deceived by any of the good words of encouragement. We know 
that we have entered on the field of constructive journalism, which requires a 
training that your editors have not received. It was on this account that we called 
for a fund of S500 that should enable us to secure such help. This fund was gener- 
ously subscribed in one day at the Cornell meeting last summer as many of you 
remember, thus showing that you wanted the experiment of the Housekeepers' 
Department tried. We have been trying to find in S25 and $50 lots the help that 
will give to this department what one of our correspondents saj^s it most needs — 
"punch." 

As to the general conduct of the Journal we know that the subject is growing too 
big for us. The specialization that is going on in Home Economics is enormous. 
We try in vain to keep track of new courses, of readjustment of values in old ones 
and the needs of localities. We look at the splendid paid staff of certain other jour- 
nals with envy, for specialism is the new note in journalism as elsewhere. We 
have also no money to pay contributors, but we have on the other hand an asset of 
great value in the interest of the Association. I cannot stop to acknowledge our 



19 14] Proceedings of Seventh Annual Meeting 399 

indebtedness to many who have helped us, but I mean to say once a year how much 
we owe to Mrs. Rose for that splendid bibliography which she sends for every issue on 
time to the day. I sometimes think it is the best thing the Journal offers. A month 
ago we began to send out a little circular to teachers and others asking for the prom- 
ise of very definite assistance in reporting news and in suggestion of subjects and 
their treatment. The response has been most encouraging. Wc are going to get 
out calendars with marked dates — an automatic jog of your memory. If you want 
to help us, please apply for one. As a Journal Board we have been stuffmg both 
hands into a leak in the pipe, a devoted but stupid method. Now we are calling 
for the engineer corps. 

Mary Hinman Abel, Chairman. 

Committee on Ellen II. Richards Me?norial Fund (including the report of the Com- 
mittee on Home Economics Day) : The Fund now amounts to $2737.05 in cash with 
publications on hand from the sale of which $400 will be realized (a net value of 
$3137.50). During the past year $366.85 have been subscribed to the Fund and 
$172.50 have been transferred to it from the life memberships of the Association which 
will hereafter be funded as part of the Richards Memorial — an increase of $539.35. 
The Richards Memorial faces a crisis. If the Association membership will unite in 
centering all efforts of the organization upon completing the project, success can 
be won. The commJttee on the Funds recommends that the Council and Executive 
Committee adopt as their leading aim for 1914-1915 the raising of $25,000 for the 
Fund by July i, 1915, and that they assume active leadership in place of the small 
committee now in charge of the canvass. 

Work of the year 1913-1914. During the past year the Fund committee has 
taken the following steps: 

1. Reprinted the statement regarding the purpose of the Fund, and the plea for 
funds from last year's committee report — 1800 copies. 

2. Drew up a program for observing Richards Day, 1913, which was printed as 
the September,i9i3, Bulletin of the Association, 1800 copies of which were reprinted 
and sent on November i (with i above) to colleges, normal schools, high schools 
and women's clubs which have Home Economics departments. 

3. In December persons were asked to serve as state chairmen in all but a few 
states and were furnished a list of high schools in their states which they were asked 
to canvass with a personal letter. 

4. On May 2, a conference was held in New York with members of the Executive 
Committee of the Association regarding methods of raising money. 

5. In May a circular letter was sent to 1345 high schools asking that they raise a 
contribution if possible this spring, and that they plan to have an observance of 
Richards-Rumford Day in 1914-1915, in joint honor of Mrs. Richards and Coimt 
Rumford (1753-1814). 

6. In January, 1914, the second edition of 1000 copies of the "Syllabus of Home 
Economics" was published by the committee and the receipts from the Syllabus have 
helped meet the expenses of the canvass. 

7. As publication No. 2 of the Richards Memorial Fund, the committee expects 
soon to issue an edition of the Report of the Household Aid Company, the experi- 
ment in trained domestic service by the hour, the report of which was written by 
Mrs. Richards. Prof. Lucy Salmon of Vassar College will write the introduction 
to the Mernorial Fund edition. i D E P A RTMEi^ T i 

iCtbLhOLD SCiEWCfi. 



400 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

8. The Fund Committee has projected a plan for raising money for the Fund by 
securing subscriptions from food manufacturers to compile and issue two studies: 
A Sanitary Code for persons who handle foods, in factories, kitchens, dining-rooms, 
etc., and Balanced Menus for various costs and conditions. It is believed that funds 
may be secured for such studies, and that their sale would bring considerable acces- 
sions to the permanent fund of the Richards Memorial. 

9. The annexed financial report is for the canvass from its beginning imder Mrs. 
Barrett in 191 1 to date June 30, 1914. There is a net sum of $2737.05 cash in hand 
plus publications for sale with an mventory value of S400 — a total of $3137-05. 
The expenses have been S419.82 for the preliminary canvass under Mrs. Barrett 
and $359.97 for the present canvass from September 191 2 to date — a total of 
$779.79 expenses. In cash $3516.84 has been received to date at an expense of 
$779-79 — a cost of about 22 per cent for collections; or, including unsold publications, 
a total of S3916.84 has been received at a cost of 19 per cent for collection. 

During the past year contributions of S366.85 came almost entirely from schools 
which in connection with Richards Day observance raised from Sio to $40 
each. Twenty-five such subscriptions were received, an average of nearly $15 
from a school. 

Financial Report of Committee on Canvass for Ellen Richards Home Economics 
Memorial Fund, 1911, to June 30, 1914. 

1. Preliminary canvass 1911 to September 20, 1912, in charge of Mrs. Barrett 

Receipts $728.52 

Expenditures 419.82 



Net Receipts $308 . 70 

Canvass September 20, 1912, to Jime 30, 1914, in charge of B. R. Andrews 

Receipts $2582.88 

Expenses 359 . 97 



Ne: receipts 222.91 



Total Receipts in general fund $253 1 . 61 

3. By Richards Calendars, balance 13-55 

4. By "Syllabus of Home Economics" balance to date 19-39 

5. By life memberships in American Home Economics Association, 

and accrued interest thereon, transferred to Memorial Fund 

by vote of Executive Cormnittee 172.50 



Total amount Richards Memorial Fund, cash $2737 . 05 

Inventor>' value of publications for sale 400 . 00 



$3137-05 



Proposed plans of the canvass for next year. It is recommended that the council 
of the Association assume management of the canvass for the ensuing year as the 
one Association enterprise of highest importance. That the Richards Fund be 
declared the Endowment Fund and the sole depository of permanent interest-bear- 
ing funds of the Association. 



1 914] Proceedings of Seventh Annual Meeting 401 

The purpose of the Fund to be stated explicitly in terms of the Association, 
for example, the support of an executive secretary of the Association; or a fund for 
research and publication. This more definite agreement on aims and purposes is 
essential to the raising of public subscriptions for the Richards Fund. That a 
definite and reasonable, immediate aim be set — for example, the raising of $25,000 
by July I, 1915. That subscriptions from $10 to $100 in form of continuing sub- 
scription of from $2 to $20 a year for five years be made by each of us present at 
this convention and sought from the 1000 Association members. 

That high school and college contributions and women's clubs' subscriptions be 
sought on Richards-Rumford Day, 1914-1915, through a program planned for uni- 
versal observance in all institutions. That general subscriptions from persons of 
means be sought. That subscriptions from food manufacturers be sought for the 
publication of sanitary and food studies. 

That local committees be formed in all branch associations and community con- 
tributions be sought in whatever ways are possible. Finally, that the Association 
secure the services of an executive secretary to devote full time to the raising of this 
Endowment Fund of the Association and such other duties as the Association may 
direct. 

Benjamin R. Andrews, Chairman. 

Committee on the Graduate School of Home Economics: The projected Graduate 
School of Home Economics scheduled for July, 1914, wiU not be held for the follow- 
ing reasons: 

1. The annual meeting of the American Home Economics Association aflfords an 
opportunity for reports, lectures and conferences on the various subjects which are 
of especial interest to teachers and students of Home Economics. Because of this 
meeting there is less need for a Graduate School of Home Economics this year. 

2. Many state normal schools, universities and chautauquas are offering courses 
in the various subjects grouped under Home Economics. These are suited to the 
needs of both elementary and high school teachers. In several institutions advanced 
work is being offered. Therefore, unless the Graduate School could be of distinctly 
graduate grade, which necessitated the services of specialists in the various subjects, 
the Graduate School would not be a success. The financial situation did not admit 
of a program of this character. 

3. The American Home Economics Association has no funds available for the 
support of a Graduate School of Home Economics; the major part of the expenses of 
the School must be defrayed by the institution whose invitation the Graduate 
School accepts. When the program of the Graduate School of Agriculture is of 
interest to students of Home Economics, as has been the case in the past, the sum of 
$500 has enabled us to supplement their expensive program with enough distinctly 
Home Economics work to offer a school of considerable merit. But this year the 
Committee on Arrangements for the Graduate School of Agriculture has planned a 
program which only very remotely interests us, therefore, we would have had to 
arrange for our entire program. A much larger sum was necessary. We did not 
feel justified in asking our host to appropriate this larger sum, since the conditions 
were not known before the invitation was sent; in fact, it was not known that any 
appropriation was expected. 

4. The geographical situation of Columbia, Mo., does not make it a desirable place 
in which to hold a summer school. More money would be necessary in order to 



402 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

persuade lecturers to come to such a warm place in Julj% and their traveling expenses 
would be greater because Columbia is not on the natural route to any summer resort 
they might be seeking. Furthermore, our program would have had to be unusually 
attractive, in order to attract people from the North, West and East, and even those 
in the South would prefer to spend six weeks in the middle of the summer in a cooler 
place. 

Recommendations of the Committee on the Arrangements for the Graduate 
School of Home Economics. It is the opinion of the Committee that under the 
present organization of instruction in the universities there is no special advantage 
in graduate schools of Home Economics as they have been in the past. These 
schools were started when there was being given little or no work for the advanced 
student. The American Home Economics Association was holding its annual 
meeting in December. The Graduate School offered an opportunity for those 
interested in special lines to get together and discuss problems of mutual interest. 
Since the time of the annual meeting of the Association has been changed, such con- 
ferences can very well be held in connection with this meeting. At present a real 
graduate school, in which courses dealing with the more advanced phases of our 
subject could be offered, would attract too few people and continue too short a 
period. The various institutions are filling any other need. 

The affiliation of Home Economics with Agriculture has no fundamental justi- 
fication. There is no more natural affiliation of Home Economics with agriculture 
than with medicine or sanitary engineering or civics, etc. If graduate schools of 
Home Economics are to continue they should be held in those places which will 
attract the larger number, regardless of the place of meeting of the Graduate 
School of Agriculture, for it is only occasionally that the program of the two schools 
can be made to fit together. 

There is no need of offering courses in a graduate school, for academic credit. 
Those desiring courses for credit might better take six weeks of work in one of the 
many institutions offering courses in Home Economics. If one institution would 
undertake to give the sort of work that a graduate school should give, it would 
attract a considerable number of advanced students, too few, however to support a 
graduate school. 

Amy L. Daniels, Chairman. 

Committee on Legislation: The past year has shown decided progress in the kind 
and amount of legislation affecting the home and education in the household arts. 
Most notable is the passage of the federal bill known as the Smith-Lever, but a 
number of the states have passed bills of moment. Several states have passed bills 
making the teaching of the household arts compulsory in the schools of the state. 
An interesting piece of legislation has been brought to a successful issue in Connec- 
ticut in which the Consumers' League of that state was greatly interested. Miss 
Mary Crowell Welles, general secretary of the Consumers' League of Connecticut 
makes the following report: 

"Two educational bills were introduced in which the League was directly interested : 
"One, to permit local boards of education to establish i^oca/iowa/ guidance a.?, a part 
of the educational system of a town, was drawn up by one of the League's repre- 
sentatives on the vocational guidance committee of Hartford. All of the five or- 
ganizaticns of Hartford which are cooperating in prosecuting this work in Hartford 
were represented at the hearing. The League members in the town of Greenwich, 



1 9 14] Proceedings of Seventh Annual Meeting 403 

who have also become interested in this work, sent up a representative to express 
their desire that the bill pass. It was reported favorably and passed without oppo- 
sition. 

' One of the most important measures enacted during the session was called the 
general trade school bill. It provides that either the State Board of Education or 
local school committees may establish vocational schools or continuation school 
courses. If the state establishes such schools or courses, it must pay the running 
expenses, provided the town furnishes building and equipment; if the town estab- 
lishes such school or courses, the state must pay one-half of the running expenses. 
The expenses chargeable to the state are limited, however, to one hundred and 
twenty-five thousand dollars a year. This bill was introduced by the State Board of 
Education. As originally drawn, it contained an excellent provision that was after- 
ward eliminated: namely, that children up to the age of sixteen should be compelled 
to attend such day schools or part-time courses, where organized, if not attending 
school elsewhere. Had this provision not been eliminated, Connecticut would have 
stood in the front rank among the states in educational legislation, and it is to be 
hoped that in 1915 this compulsory feature may be inserted in the statute. 

" Some features in the bill were suggested to the Board by an appeal made to it 
by the Consumers' League that itwouldprovidegreateropportunities for girls in the 
way of vocational training, by ofifering courses in housework for domestic ser\'ants 
and boarding-house keepers and furnishing instruction in the artistic trades and 
salesmanship. The League assisted in securing a favorable report of the bill by 
summoning to the hearings representatives from eight state organizations of women. 
About seventy-five women appeared to advocate the passage of the bill, represent- 
ing over a dozen towns in the state. 

" Never in the history of our General Assembly has such advance been made in 
labor legislation in a single session. The state seems to have become awake to the 
progress around it and likely to take the lead in such work instead of lagging behind, 
as has been its reputation. Mary Cromwell Welles." 

It should be recalled that the Committee of the American Home Economics 
Association on Legislation sent a request to the members of the Association, asking 
them to support the Federal Smith-Lever bill through their senators and represen- 
tatives. This request evoked an interesting correspondence, the chairman and 
members of the committee receiving e.xpressions of strong approval and disapproval 
of the bill. This would probably be the case always with any Federal bill, which 
seems to suggest that the Association would do well to take part with other organi- 
zations in promoting state legislation. The following details are of interest : 

Mrs. Mary H. Abel and Dr. Benjamin Andrews, representing the Association, 
called on members of the Committees on Agriculture in the United States Senate 
and House of Representatives in 1913 in support of the Smith-Lever bill for Fed- 
eral aid for extension teaching in Home Economics and agriculture; and in April, 
1914, before the same committees in support of an increased appropriation for the 
Nutrition Investigations of the United States Department of Agriculture, and the 
widening of its work to include textiles and household management. 

Of the ix)ints urged in last year's report:' 

I. The Joint Resolution No. 5, for an Industrial Education Commission was 
adopted by Congress, the commission was appointed, and its report, it is understood, 

^ See Journal of Home Economics, 5, 19 13, no. 4, pp. 362-363. 



^o4 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

will urge Federal aid for a national system of continuation schools in which house- 
hold arts will have a place. 

2. The Smith-Lever bill, for aid to extension teaching in household education 
and agriculture was passed and signed by President Wilson, May 8, 19 14. Facts 
regarding it are given in the Weekly News Letter of the United States Department 
of Agriculture, May 27, 1914- 

3. The Department of Agriculture Appropriation bill for 191 4 provided for an 
appropriation of approximately $26,000 instead of $16,000 for the Nutrition Investi- 
gations, and widened its scope to include textiles and household management. 

4. No action has been taken on the Smoot bill for aid to research in Home Eco- 
nomics in state agricultural experiment stations. The Association may well urge 
again the fundamental importance of such research. 

In state legislation, the committee again urges that local Home Economics asso- 
ciations study the legislation of their own states, and secure laws providing full 
recognition and support for Home Economics teaching. A forthcoming report of 
the United States Bureau of Education, it is understood, will give a summary of 
legislation in this matter for the various states; when available, it should be studied 
and acted upon. As mentioned in last year's report some of the important issues in 
state legislation are as follows: 

1. State aid for vocational education including household arts. New Jersey, 
Peimsylvania and Indiana have during the past year adopted such aid, and the 
matter is pending in other states. 

2. State supervision of Home Economics in the schools. Wisconsin has this year 
appointed a supervisor on the staff of the state superintendent of public instruction; 
Illinois has had for several years a high school visitor in Home Economics going out 
from the state university; Louisiana has a state supervisor attached to the extension 
staff of the university; Massachusetts has a super\'isor of continuation classes in 
household arts; and several states as New York, Arizona, Pennsylvania, Indiana 
and others are giving state direction in household arts. Every state needs a visiting 
super\'isor in household arts, at least during the formative years. 

3. A requirement that household arts must be taught in the schools; Indiana and 
Iowa, have this year adopted this standard, previously required in Oklahoma and 
one or two other states. 

Respectfully submitted, 
Helen Kinne, Chairman. 

Report of the Committee on State Supervisors: This investigation, as yet incom- 
plete, indicates that much good has resulted wherever state supervision of the 
teaching of Home Economics has been introduced. Massachusetts, Wisconsin, 
Illinois, and Louisana have state supervision to some degree; in Massachusetts for 
state-aided vocational schools, in Wisconsin for all public schools. In lUinois and 
Louisiana the State Universities send inspectors to the accredited high schools to 
pass on their courses in Home Economics for college entrance. It is reported that 
New York State is about to appoint a state supervisor. 

Formerly the chief concern was to get Home Economics into the school curric- 
ulum. Now it is widely introduced, its popularity is assured by the interest of 
school patrons, extension teachers and lecturers in farmers' institutes and women's 
clubs, its support is guaranteed by generous contributions of private, local, state, 
and national funds. Home Economics is being taught, but how? Are we getting 



1914] Proceedings of Seventh Annual Meeting 405 

the best possible return for this investment in si)ecial and expensive equipment 
and for the outlay of time and human energy by pupils and teachers? 

The situation in any state is likely to be similar to that in New York which is 
described by Mr. Arthur Dean: "The rapidly increasing demand for teachers of 
Home Economics so far exceeds the possibility of supplying trained women for such 
{XJsitions that many have been drawn into this line of service who are inadequately 
and hastily prepared. An experienced advisor or counselor within easy reach of the 
young or inexperienced teacher is the least that should be given to strengthen, sup- 
plement, and guide her. The real remedy is in the Normal schools in their selection 
of those suited to this work, in their encouragement of married women who have 
met real responsibilities in life, to enter this field, and in their giving during the 
training period viewpoints beyond mere materials and methods." 

Supervision is considered essential in the larger cities where higher salaries and 
rigid requirements combine to attract the best qualified teachers. Surely it is equally 
essential in smaller cities and rural districts. For this work we want as super- 
visors the strongest women in the Home Economics field. 

To the supervisors in Massachusetts, Wisconsin, Illinois, and Louisiana, were sent 
these questions: 

1. What has been accomplished up to the present time through state supervision 
of the teaching of House Economics? 

2. WTiat may yet be accomplished? 

3. What method of state supervision seems most effective? 

4. What percentage of teachers seem so efficient because of superior technical 
knowledge and skill, method of teaching, and general experience as to need no 
super\'ision? 

5 To what extent have living conditions in the community been improved through 
Home Economics in the school? 

The replies show that wherever introduced, supervision has resulted in improved 
teaching, courses of study raised to a higher standard, and more economic and 
effective use of state money. 

In Massachusetts, Mrs. Eva W. White, who has supervised instruction in the 
state-aided vocational schools for about two years, says: "Supervision should not 
drive communities to adopting particular methods or courses of study, but should 
stimulate the local community to assume full responsibility for initiative in the 
development of their schools, with state supervision to justify it, state subsidy for 
some needy communities is allowable because of the general good to the life of the 
state." Mrs. White keeps in constant touch with communities through personal 
visits, correspondence, and speaking at teachers' meetings. Home project work is 
started and extension courses planned for Massachusetts. 

The State of Wisconsin appointed Miss Emma Conley, Supervisor of Domestic 
Science in 1913. She has standardized the work and it counts toward graduation, as 
the equivalent of other subjects. Miss Conley finds that the majority of teachers 
of our subject are young, inexperienced, and lacking in serious purpose. They wish 
to improve and profit by the advice of the supervisor but remain in the service too 
short a time to become efficient. Probably, only 10 per cent are really efficient. 

The situation is serious in Iowa, Ohio, and other states which are requiring that 
household subjects be taught in every 7th and 8th grade. Funds are lacking for 
special teachers and equipment. As one Ohio superintendent said, they are "hard 
put to know what to do." Generally they decide to have a grade teacher take a six 



4o6 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

weeks' course in a summer school and do the best she can on that brief training under 
conditions which would be difficult for a thoroughly trained and experienced teacher. 
Here is most obvious need of a supervisor's help. The Association should recom- 
mend the appointment of able super\'isors in a resolution which could be sent to 
state superintendents and boards of education. 

If this committee is to continue its investigation I should propose making a survey 
of the whole country, state by state, county by county, in order to get definite infor- 
mation concerning the teachmg of Home Economics. We should know how many 
schools are offering courses, what their equipment is, their course of study, what 
training and experience their teachers have had, and to what extent the teaching of 
the subject is improving life in the community. From this might be deduced what 
improvements are possible in the selection and training of teachers and in improving 
the work of those already in the field. 

Alice L. Thomas, Chairman. 

Committee on Nomenclature: There seems to be an opinion in the minds of some 
people that when the Syllabus was made, the Committee on Nomenclature had ended 
its labors. But, the committee really felt that it had only begun. It had set on 
paper some clear definitions and sent them out to the world hoping to get suggestions 
and criticism. We have had a meeting in Chicago within the last ten days, and have 
a plan under way to revise these definitions so as '.o keep them up with the discover- 
ies that iiave been made, and we want more help. We have one satisfactory report 
to make in the fact that the first thousand copies of the Syllabus were sold, and there- 
fore a little money for the Richards Memorial Fund has been made in that way. I 
do not know how the rest of the teachers feel, but it was a great satisfaction to me to 
be able to say to my senior class: "Please buy the Syllabus so that next September 
when you begin work you will not have to send a special delivery letter to the 
University of Illinois inquiring, 'Where was that pamphlet, that has definitions in it, 
and what was the name of it?' " I said: "Buy it right here and now and take it 
home with j'ou," and I felt justified in doing so because I knew that these questions 
would come, and I think that the definitions are as good as they would find any- 
where. I think Dr. Langworthy reported that there were some definite expressions 
of opinion at Lake Placid as to ways in which the work of the committee could be 
improved. I will ask him to say what was really done at Lake Placid. 

Dr. Langworthy. — There was a definite suggestion made at the Institution Eco- 
nomics Section at Lake Placid, which was that in naming courses of instruction in 
schools and colleges, we foUow the terminology of the Syllabus in so far as possible. 
You may recall the fact that some institutions look askance at courses in cooking, 
in laundry, in sewing, in millinery, and so on, thinking, unjustly of course, that 
these subjects are not worthy of dignified study. They forget that it is the method 
by which you do work and not the subject you study which dignifies it, but be that 
as it may, we believe that courses would have a better standing if these terms were 
avoided, and would also give a clearer idea of the work. For instance, Clothing — 
Care and Renewal — would cover not only the laundry work, but the principles of 
chemistry back of it which dignify it, and raise it from mere drudgery, and would 
give it a better place in many colleges than it has under its present designation. 
The same thing applies to Food — Care and Preparation — which would cover 
cookery, and so it would go through other phases of Home Economics work. The 
Syllabus is very rich in suggestions for terminology. As Miss Bevier has said, the 



1914] Proceedings of Seventh Annual Meeting 407 

first edition of 1000 copies has been sold out, and the second edition with some 
very minor changes, has appeared. It is going very rapidly, and we hope will 
make still more money for the Richards Fund, and that the Committee may have 
help in further revision. Some is promised for the sociological and hj'gienic sec- 
tion and we hope that you will all work on bibliography so that eventually each 
section of the Syllabus may have a selected list of reference books or articles, so 
that we will have a bibliography of Home Economics which surpasses in com- 
pleteness and in accuracy any existing work on the subject. 

Isabel Bevier, Chairman. 

The Committees on Exhibits, on Score Cards in Home Economics and on Textiles 
did not report. 

The Nominating Committee through Miss Anna Barrows presented a tentative 
report, but the final report was not presented until Thursday morning. The 
reports of the Committees on Resolutions and on Audit were presented Friday 
morning, as were also the reports of the Secretary and the Treasurer. There was 
some discussion on the question of state super\'ision. 

Second Session, 8 p.m. Tuesday, June 30 

Miss Sarah Louise Arnold, president, presiding. The session opened with a brief 
but delightful organ recital by Prof. Charles E. Clemens, the University organ- 
ist. Miss Arnold then introduced Dr. Charles F. Thwing, president of Western 
Reserve University, whose address was entitled "Shall the Family be Preserved?" 
At the close of this scholarly address, President Thwing received the members of 
the Association and their friends at an informal reception in Guilford Hall. 

Third Session, 9.30 a.m., Wednesday, July i 

Mrs. Mary Hinman Abel, editor of the Journal of Home Economics, presiding. 
Mrs. Abel made a brief address on the importance of this special session for house- 
keepers, and then introduced Miss Emma A. Winslow, Teachers College, Columbia 
University, who presented a paper on "The Consulting Housekeeper." She was 
followed by Mrs. Henry M. Dunlap, ex-president of the Illinois State Farmers' 
Institutes, who read a paper on "The Visiting Housekeeper in Rural Districts." 
The next topic of "Buying for the Household" was presented by Dr. Benjamin R. 
Andrews, Teachers College, Columbia University. A paper by Miss Helen Louise 
Johnson was to have completed the morning's program, but it was postponed to the 
evening session because the Association had the delightful surprise of an address from 
the Hon. Philander P. Claxton, U. S. Commissioner of Education. Dr. Claxton 
came in response to an urgent telegraphic invitation, to show his personal and 
official interest in the work of the Association. He spoke at some length of its 
importance and of its relations to the whole field of education. He made a strong 
plea for greater definiteness in the teaching of Home Economics and for great 
increase in extension work. The morning session was then adjourned. 

The interval between this and the afternoon sessions of conferences was used by 
most of the visiting members in accepting the cordial invitation of the National 
Lamp Works to visit the cafeteria at their plant at Nela Park, and see their arrange- 
ments for caring for employees. The Company provided automobiles for the trip 
and made the visit a pleasant one in every way. The cafeteria, both in equipment 



4d8 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

and in prices, called forth the admiration of all who attended. At 4 o'clock 
automobiles lent by citizens of Cleveland, were at the University to take all who 
cared to go on a drive around the beautiful lakeside city. 

Fourth Session, 8 p.m., Wednesday, July i 

Dr. J. E. Cutler, Professor of Sociology, Western Reserve University, presiding. 
The subject for the evening was Community Housekeeping, and Dr. Cutler presented 
the subject in a particularly clear and pungently-worded paper. He then intro- 
duced Miss Mildred Chadsey, Chief Inspector, Department of Public Welfare, Divi- 
sion of Health, Cleveland. Miss Chadsey talked rather than read a most interest- 
ing paper on "Municipal Housekeeping." This was to have been followed by a 
paper on "The Tenement Housekeeper" by Miss Frances Stem of Boston, but Miss 
Stem was unable to come, and place was therefore given to Miss Helen Louise 
Johnson's clear and practical paper on "Teaching Children to Spend." 

Fifth Session, 9.30 a.m., Thursday, July 2 

Miss Isabel Ely Lord, Secretary, presiding. Miss Lord introduced Miss Annette 
J. Warner, Cornell University, who read a paper on "Art in the Home," and Miss 
Laura A. Cauble, of the Bureau of Food Supplies, Association for the Improvement 
of the Condition of the Poor, New York City, who read a paper on "Educational 
Effort in Municipal Food Control." There was a brief discussion on Miss Cauble's 
paper, but it was necessary to cut it short in order to proceed to the business session. 
It was also necessary to omit the brief accounts from different institutions teaching 
household science and arts, planned as a part of this program. Miss Lord therefore 
turned the meeting over to Miss Arnold, who caUed for the final report of the Nomi- 
nating Committee, which was as follows : 

For President, ^liss Martha Van Rensselaer, Cornell University. For Vice- 
Presidents, Miss Abby L. ]Marlatt, University of Wisconsin; Miss Marion Talbot, 
University of Chicago; Dr. Benj. R. Andrews, Teachers CoUege, Columbia Universi- 
ty. For Secretary, Miss Anna Barrows, Teachers CoUege, Columbia University. 
For Treasurer, Dr. C. F. Langworthy, U. S. Department of Agriculture. For mem- 
bers of the Council, Miss Sarah Louise Arnold, Simmons CoUege; Miss Isabel Ely 
Lord, Pratt Institute; Miss Josephine T. Berry, University of Minnesota; Miss 
Catherine A. MuUigan, Converse College, Spartanburg, S. C.;Miss Helen Louise 
Johnson, Watertown, N. Y. 

Miss Arnold then caUed for the Report of the Committee on the Revision of the 
Constitution, as finaUy revised by the Council. The Report took the form of a 
Constitution recommended for adoption. Prof. WiUiam Morse Cole, chairman 
of the committee, was unable to be present, and Miss Amold asked Dr. B. R. 
.\ndrews to offer any necessary- explanations. The Report was read paragraph by 
paragraph by the Secretary and was voted as read.^ 

Dr. Benjamin R. Andrews then announced the decision of the Council to raise 
$25,000 of the endowment fund (Richards Memorial) by the next annual meeting, 
and presented the necessity of a paid Executive Secretary, who should for a year give 
full time to the work of the Association, especiaUy to the raising of the endowment 
fund. He called for pledges from members present to give or raise $400 toward 

' The revised constitution is printed in full in the September Bulletin. 



19 14] Proceedings of Seventh Annual Meeting 409 

the $3000 deemed necessary by the Council. (This sum was pledged before the 
dose of the last session.) He also asked for pledges toward raising the endowment 
fund. Meeting adjourned. 

From 1 2 to 2 the ballot bo.x was open, and all the officers whose nominations were 
reported by the Nominating Committee were elected. The change in the Consti- 
tution by which one vice-president is elected each year to serve three years instead of 
three vice-presidents being elected each year to serve one year, made it necessary 
to dififerentiate the terms of ser\'ice of the three elected this year. Miss Talbot 
serves three years, Dr. Andrews two, and Miss Marlatt one. 

.\t 4 the College Club of Cleveland received the members and their friends at 
their Club House. The occasion was most enjoyable. 

Sixth Session, 8 p.m., Thursday, July 2 
Miss Isabel Bevier, University of Illinois, presiding. Miss Bevier called first 
for the report of the election of oflicers (already recorded) by the tellers. She 
next asked Miss Anna M. East to give an account of her work in the Philippines, 
which proved most interesting. (At next morning's sesssion Miss East appeared 
dressed in the picturesque but cumbersome costume worn by the girls who were 
studying under her.) Miss Bevier then called on Dr. Langworthy to present the 
plan for two publications by the Richards fund, one a Sanitary Code for Employ- 
ees dealing with Food and the other a Book of Balanced Menus for families of 
different incomes and difTerent food requirements. He asked all there to help 
make these publications possible, to "give us an endowment fund so that we may 
do all these things not only for the good of the race, but in memor>' of that great 
and good woman, Ellen H. Richards, who foimded this Association of which we 
are so proud." 

Miss Bevier then introduced the president, Miss Sarah Louise Arnold, who made 
the president's address, a brilliant and vital contribution to the wealth of the meet- 
ing. 

The second regular address of the evening was made by Dr. David Snedden, 
Commissioner of Education for Massachusetts, on "Present Problems in Home 
Economics," and was characterized by the clarity and keeness the educational 
world has come to expect from Dr. Snedden. Meeting adjourned. 

Seventh and Last Session, 9.30 a.m., Friday, July 3 
Miss Martha Van Rensselaer, president elect, presiding. The Secretary's Report 
was read by title, because of the lack of time, and ordered printed in the proceedings. 
Secretary's Report igi3-igi4: The work of the Secretary for the year has differed 
in no way from the usual work of that office. The correspondence takes most of the 
time that has to be given, and is heavier than most of the members of the Association 
suspect. Attendance at Executive Committee and Council Meetings, the writing 
of the minutes of these, and editing of the proceedings of the annual meeting and 
the Bulletin make up the work as it is. As it should be, the work would include 
making the Association known more widely, increasing its membership, increasing the 
subscription list of the Journal, and gaining for the work the strength that would 
come from wider cooperation. This means writing more letters, but chiefly it means 
meeting more people personally on the business of the Association and making 
speeches or addresses as occasion arises. Only through such personal work can the 
Association be strengthened and developed. 



4IO The Journal of Home Economics [October 

It is obvious that no person with a professional position can give time enough to 
the Association woriv to do all this adequately, and even more important than this, 
the person who has another main responsibility cannot take the initiative necessary 
to the highest success of the secretaryship. For these reasons I have urged person- 
ally and finally (in May) in a formal report to the Executive Committee, the secur- 
ing of a paid Executive Secretarj' who should give full time to the work of the Asso- 
ciation. If the initial expense can be met, I am sure the position wiU carry itself 
financially through increased memberships. The Council has approved the plan 
and the money for the first year's salary and expenses will be raised as soon as possi- 
ble. The Association will then take its place with the other important national 
professional societies, all of which have such a paid officer. 

The Secretary' in declining to serve for another year wishes to express her appre- 
ciation of the fine spirit of cooperation in the membership and of the cordial help 
that has been given her in the duties of the office. 

Respectfully sumbitted, 

Isabel Ely Lord. 

The Treasurer's Report was presented as follows: 

Report of the Treasurer, June 19, 1914, to June 22, 1914, Inclusive 
statement of receipts and disbursements 

Receipts Expenditures Balance4- Balance— 

Association $957-75 $1029.15 $71.40 

Journal 55^1 -47 464767 $913.80 

Housekeepers' Dept.. ...... 433- 5° 54-75 378-75 

E. H. Richards Mem. 

Fund 382.98 388.07 5.09 

Permanent Association 

Fund 172.50 172.50 

Institution Economics 

Sect 162.76 95 38 67.38 



$7670.96 $6215.02 $1532.43 $76.49 
6215.02 76 -49 



Balance, Cash on hand . $1455.94 $1455.94 

Balance, Interest-bearing ac, Harford Nat. Bk., Bel Air, Md. . 5519.44 

Balance, Check ac, B^rltimore Trust Co., Baltimore, Md 745 . 60 

Balance, Second National Bank, Washington, D. C, 18 . 40 

$1283.44 

Permanent Association Fund, Emigrant Indust. Sav. Bank, 
N.Y.C 172.50 

$1455.94 



1914] Proceedings of Seventh Annual Meeting 411 

ASSETS AND LIABILITIES 

Total Cash on hand $1455 . 94 

Assets: 

Unpaid dues $190 . 00 

Unpaid subscriptions 1262 .00 

Advertising 126.50 1578.50 

Liabilities (Unpaid bills in hand) 5 . 10 1573 40 



Total Assets $3029.34 

ASSOCIATION 

Receipts: 

Balance from 1913 $179.09 

Dues collected 75Q • 2 2 

Interest on $500 account in Harford Bk 19 44 



$957-75 



Expenditures: 

Meetings $301 , 86 

Bulletins 136-44 

Officers' Expenses 1 76 . 60 

Managing Editor's Office 1/5 4^4 25 1029.15 



Balance— $71 .40 

JOURNAL 

Receipts : 

Balance from 1913 $1012 .98 

Reprints 96 . 09 

Subscriptions 3855 - 45 

Single Copies, Back Numbers, and \'olumes 107 . 16 

Advertising 438 • 42 

Bibliography 13-35 

Books Sold, Profit 38 02 



55561 47 



Expenditures: 

Printing (including June Journal) $2840.32 

Editor's Office 1 25 . 84 

Managing Editor's Office, 4/5 1657.00 

Miscellaneous 24.51 4647.67 



Balance $9^3 80 

housekeepers' department . 

Receipts (Cash contribution) $433 - 5° 

Expenditures 54-75 



Balance $378 - 



412 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

Ellen H. Richards Memorl\l Fuxd 
account with association 
Receipts: 

SyUabus S267 . 78 

Pictures 75-75 

Reprints 3-75 

Contributions 34-9° 

Miscellaneous .80 



5382.92 
Expenditures: 

Syllabus $79-37 

Syllabus money sent to B. R. Andrews, Chm., Fund 

Com 165.00 

Pictures 9° 39 

Reprints 13 00 

^Miscellaneous 40. 31 388.07 



Balance— S5 . 09 

PERMANENT ASSOCIATION FUNT) 

Receipts: 

Balance from 1913 $150.00 

Interest to 6/30, for several years 22 . 50 



$172.50 
No expenditures 

Balance $1 72 . 50 

INSTITUTION ECONOMICS SECTION 

Receipts: 

Balance from 1913 $104.76 

Budget allowance 50. 00 

Contribution 8 . 00 



$162.76 
Expenditures $95 . 38 



Balance S67 . 38 

Respectfully submitted, 

C. F. Langworthy, 

Treasurer. 

The Committee on Audit reported as follows: We have examined the books and 
accounts of the Treasurer and find them to be correctly kept and properly vouched. 

Frank H. Whitcomb, 
Alice P. Norton. 
The Secretars' read a letter from Miss Geraldine Gordon of London, bringing 
greetings to the Association in session. 



1914] Proceedings of Seventh Annual Meeting 413 

The Report of the Committee on Resolutions was read by Miss Bevier, as follows, 
and accepted: 
Resolved; 

1. That this Association recognizes that a very great advance in this work has 
been made possible by the passage of the Smith-Lever bill and hereby expresses 
its appreciation of the eflorts of those who have so long worked in this good cause. 

2. That it is the sense of this Association that much benefit for all concerned 
may be derived from State Supervision of all Home Economics teaching. There- 
fore the members of this Association are respectfully urged to use all proper means 
to obtain such supervision in their respective states. 

3. That we express our grateful appreciation of the substantial service rendered 
to the cause of Home Economics by the presence and inspiring addresses of the U. S. 
Commissioner of Education, the Hon. P. P. Claxton, and the Massachusetts Com- 
missioner of Education, Dr. David Snedden. 

4. That thanks are due to the Cleveland friends for the beautiful ride; to the 
College Club and to the Ser\'ice Department of Nela Park for their generous hos- 
pitality. 

5. That we express our appreciation of the courtesy extended to us by the 
press and its representatives. 

6. That our special thanks are due to the President of Western Reserve Uni- 
versity and his associates through whose generosity this meeting at the College for 
Women was made possible. Among those whose time and energy have been ex- 
pended for our comfort, special mention should be made of the effective business 
arrangements of Miss Parker, the hospitality of Miss Annin, the stimulating 
contribution of Dr. Cutler and the scholarly address of President Thwing. 

Respectfully submitted, 

Isabel Bevier, Chairman, 

AG>fES Harris, 

Helen Louise Johnson. 

Dr. Benjamin R. Andrews then, as chairman, presented the report of the special 
committee appointed by the Council to reconsider the question of the 191 5 meeting 
and make recommendations to the Association. The other members of the com- 
mittee were Mrs. Mary P. Van Zile, Aliss Helen Louise Johnson, Dr. C. F. Lang- 
worthy. Dr. Andrews reported for the committee the following recommendations: 

That the annual meeting as arranged be held at the University of Seattle, Wash- 
ington, for four days about August 17 to 20, 1915, followed by an International 
Educational Home Economics Congress, in connection with the National Education 
Association meeting at the Panama Pacific Exposition about August 23 to 25, at 
San Francisco or Oakland. After brief discussion this recommendation was unan- 
imously adopted. 

Miss Van Rensselaer then opened the regular program by speaking briefly on 
extension work. She read Dean Liberty Hyde Bailey's "To Jericho," a new con- 
tribution to the subject of country life. She then introduced Miss Elizabeth Kelly, 
of the University of Louisana, who gave a spirited account of Extension Teaching in 
Louisana. She next introduced Mrs. Jane Q. McKimmon of the Farmers' Cooper- 
ative Demonstration Work, North Carolina, who spoke most interestingly on "Home 
Industries for the Country Giri." The next paper was to have been byMissMildred 
Veitch of North Dakota, on 'The Visiting Teacher in the Farm Home," but Miss 



414 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

Veitcli was unable to come and her place was filled by Miss Ilene Bailey of the 
United States Department of Agriculture who spoke on the "Work of the Office 
of Fann Management." There was time for a brief discussion. Dr. Snedden 
spoke, and I\Iiss Ferguson gave a brief account of the work in Porto Rico. 

Further discussion led to the request that the chair appoint a committee to consider 
what proportion of the money available under the Smith-Lever bill should go to 
Home Economics. 

Miss Arnold and Mrs. Norton made brief reports of the meeting of the Institution 
Economics Section at Lake Placid. 

Miss Arnold then adjourned the Seventh Annual Meeting, with appreciation for 
what had been accomplished, and hopes for future good work. Meeting Adjourned. 

The cordial hospitality of Western Reserve University, expressed especially in 
the never-failing thoughtfulness in planning and executing shown by Miss Mary E. 
Parker and the kindness of the many Cleveland people who helped make the four 
days pleasant, combined with delightfully cool weather to make the meeting the 
best yet. The registration was less than 200, but the attendance ran as high as 
325, and we are sure that there were at least 500 individuals who were at some one 
of the meetings. 

It was interesting to note how quiet and attentive the audiences were. There 
was none of the outer-edge conversation that so distracts those trying to hear papers, 
and most of those who came stayed until the meeting was declared adjourned. A 
good part of this close attention was undoubtedly due to the masterly presiding of 
the president. Miss Arnold. There are few presiding officers who can make even 
the voting on the revision of the constitution an animated occasion, but Miss Arnold 
accomplished it. 

The organization of the special conferences was noted under the first session. 
These met not only in the free afternoons, but before and after meetings. Eight 
in the morning saw some of them in progress, and no record shows how late they 
continued in the evening. Some of the groups were small, some large, and many 
individuals complained about the simultaneous sessions of two or more conferences 
in which they were interested. But even these complaints showed the value of the 
arrangement, and ruany individual reports of enthusiasm have come in to show how 
worth while it is to arrange for such informal discussion of specific problems. 

Exhibits were made in connection with the meeting as follows: 

The Association: Portrait of Mrs. Ellen H. Richards; Series of portraits of the 
Pioneers and Patriots of Home Economics (now 24, to be extended) ; charts illus- 
trating the work of the Association. 

The School Lunch Commttee: Exhibit prepared for the International Congress 
of Hygiene, 1913. 

United States Department of Agriculture: From the Bureau of Nutrition, set of 
revised food charts; popular bulletins on food and nutrition, suggestions for inex- 
pensive pictures for rural schools, extension and home betterment work. From the 
Bureau of Animal Industry, Dairy Division: clean milk exhibit. 

Cleveland Public Library: Selection of books for the housekeeper. 

Houghton. Mifflin Company: "Home Progress:" exhibit showing their extension 
education plans. 



i()i4J Institutional Economics Section 415 

Whitcomb and Barrows: Exhibit of their publications in Home Economics. 

Burrows Bros. : E.xhibit of books in Home Economics, in part the books suggested 
by the Association oflice. 

The presence of representatives from Denmark, Porto Rico and the Philippines 
gave a slight foreign flavor to the meeting, which it is hoped to extend to a real inter- 
national taste next year. 

The final word of the Report of the 1914 meeting is to urge all members to plan 
to attend the 1915 meeting in Seattle, August 17 to 20 (or thereabouts) and a few 
days later in Oakland or San Francisco. 

Isabel Ely Lord, Secretary. 

INSTITUTION ECONOMICS SECTION OF THE AMERI- 
CAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 

The Institution Economics Section of the American-Home Economics Associa- 
tion held its fifth annual meeting at Lake Placid, New York State, June 24-27. 
Lake Placid is in the heart of the Adirondacks. The club is on Mirror Lake within 
a short distance of Lake Placid and surrounded by marvelous mountains peaks. 
The club is an institution started by Mr. and Mrs. Melvil Dewey and promoted by 
them in association with others of unusual ability. It has the charm of simplicity in 
living where expenditure brings satisfaction of the highest and most lasting char- 
acter. 

The program of the 1914 meeting was pronounced a decided success. The 
membership present at the meeting numbered eighty-seven with daily interested 
visitors. 

The program follows : 

Wednesday, June 24 

9:30 a.m. Miss Van Rensselaer, Chairman 

Address of Welcome by Mr. Godfrey Dewey 

Announcements by the secretary, roll call and response by way of intro- 
duction, discussion of equipment and general institution problems 

8:00 p.m. Miss Rose, Chairman 

Cafeteria management Miss Boughton 

Buying lunch room supplies Miss Klaer 

Central kitchen plan Mr. Brown 

Discussion of lunch room exhibits 

Thursday, June 25 

9:30 a.m. Mr. Cole, Chairman 
Annoimcements 

Unit costs in institutions Mr. Cole 

Unit cost of food in institutions Miss Cooper 

8:00 p.m. Mrs. Dewey, Chairman 

Buying, storing and handling food supplies Mr. Meigher 

Grading and standardizing food supplies Mr. Snyder 



4i6 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

Friday, June 26 

9:30 a.m. Miss Gunther, Chairman 

Announcements 

The Laundry; equipment, plans and formulas Miss B alders ton 

11:15 a.m. Waste Miss Watson 

8:00 p.m. Miss Arnold, Chairman 

Dormitory supervision Miss Goodrich 

Administrative work in colleges Miss Hamilton 

Saturday, June 27 

9:30 a.m. Dr. Langworthy, Chairman 
Announcements 

The formation of a sanitary food code Dr. Langworthy 

Courses in institutional economics Miss Arnold 

2 :30 p.m. Election of officers and other business 

Committees were formed for promoting work during the year to be reported at 
the 191 5 meeting. The annual session at Lake Placid is a school rather than a 
convention in which persons who are experienced are invited to present the results of 
their training and observation. There were daily discussions of questions of impor- 
tance to those engaged in institutional work. Thus no one who goes to the confer- 
ence can fail to secure help for his particular problem. 

The appointment of committees is to establish leaders in various subjects impor- 
tant in institutional work at the present time. In order that all may be benefited 
by the year-round investigations, members and others interested in institutional 
work are asked to ally themselves to the activities of one or more committees. 
These committees aie as follows: 

Housekeeping Supplies, Mrs. Annie Dewey, Lake Placid Club, N. Y.; Laundr>', 
Miss L. R. Bladerston, Teachers College, N. Y.; Per Capita Costs, Mr. Wm. Morse 
Cole, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.; Institution Economics Courses, Dean 
Arnold, Simmons College, Boston, Mass.; Dieticians, Miss Flora Rose, Cornell 
Univ., Ithaca, N. Y.; Public School Lunch Room Management, Miss Alice Bough- 
ton, Phila., Pa.; Cafeteria Management, Miss Hunn, Cornell Univ.,Ithaca, N. Y.; 
Dormitory Management, Miss Elizabeth Goodrich, Simmons College, Boston, 
Mass.; Waste, Miss Mary Uri Watson, McDonald Institute, Guelph, Canada; Food 
Sanitation, Dr. Langworthy, Dept. Agr., Washington, D. C. 

The executive committee requests that all persons interested in Institutional 
Economics write to the Secretary, Miss Emma H. Gunther, Teachers College, Co- 
lumbia University, New York City, indicating their preference for the committee 
with which they will cooperate during the year for a definite investigation. 

At the meeting of the American Home Economics Association in Cleveland a 
report of the Lake Placid meeting was called for and responded to as follows : 

Dr. Langworthy: The Lake Placid meeting was one of the most inspiring meetings 
that one could hope to attend. The program was fine; the attendance large; the 
enthusiasm great; and everything was done for our comfort and pleasure. The best 
thing one can say is that the standard of work presented was very high, as was 
shown by both papers and discussions. 

Miss Arnold: I want to say one thing about it. In the first place the Lake Placid 



1914] Report of the Department of Home Economics 417 

meeting is made possible by the hospitality of Mrs. Dewey and the Lake Placid Club. 
She has from the beginning been fostering all institutional science, and in the pro- 
vision for thousands of guests during the year has so tabulated all this material that 
she has placed it at our disposal, and has given us all the fundamental foundation for 
our institution economics work. She made it possible for our institution section to 
be entertained with the utmost comfort. You would naturally suppose that those 
who reported would be those who were engaged in institution work, but very delight- 
ful things happened. One was that Mr. Hinkley who represented the Hotel Statler 
Organization, and has a very responsible position, was at Lake Placid to rest with 
his family, to get away from everything concerning institutions, but when he found 
that our convention was there he attended nearly every session, answered questions 
and talked at some length telling us about hotel organizations and their problems. 
Others of similar interests contributed to the success of the meeting. 

Perhaps the most vital program that we had was that led by Dr. Cole on Unit 
Costs. 

Another paper delivered by Mr. Snyder of the firm of Batchelder and Snyder of 
Boston gave us a very good session, and I should say of the Lake Placid Conference 
that it is moving in the direction of living issues. We had the largest attendance 
we have had, with very attentive audiences, very earnest discussions, and the help 
of men and women who came to us from very real work. 

Mrs. Norton: One thing that impressed me most was the growth of institutional 
work. I think there were eighty-seven registrations at that meeting, most of the 
people in institution work of some kind, dietitians, managers of lunch rooms, or 
similar work. When I think of the first meeting at Lake Placid that I attended in 
1899 when there were nine present, and realize that one phase of this work has 
grown to that extent, it seemed to me that we really had no reason to feel dis- 
couraged. It certainly is a fine start that people are beginning to do and see so 
many of the big problems that are connected with our Home Economics work. 

REPORT OF THE DEPARTMENT OF HOME ECONOMICS 

AT THE TWELFTH BIENNIAL CONVENTION OF THE 

GENERAL FEDERATION OF WOMEN'S CLUBS 

At the Twelfth Biennial held in Chicago, Monday, June 15, was set aside for Home 
Economics Day and the meetings were crowded. The Department of Home Econom- 
ics is one that has grown very rapidly during the past two years; it has greatly 
enlarged the scope of its work and extended its influence. This increased growth 
and interest in all phases of the work has been due to the efiicient leadership of 
Miss Helen Louise Johnson, Chairman of the Home Economics Department. 
To her untiring efforts was due the splendid program provided for the day. 

Miss Johnson in opening the meeting said in part: "Two decades ago there stood 
upon the shores of this great lake a wonderful White City in which was one of the 
first buildings erected in this country to memoralize the work of women. Among 
the many memorable Congresses held in the Women's Building we find one which is 
headed 'Program for the Congress on Household Economics,' the first great public 
Congress ever held relating to the needs, the work and the interests of the home. 
Its Chairman was Mrs. John Wilkinson. Its speakers included of those still at 
work in this field Miss Jane Addams, Professor Marion Talbot, and Mrs. Mary 
Hinman Abel. 



41 8 The Journal of Home Economics [October 

" Here at this Congress the Home Economics Department of the Federation of 
clubs was bom. Under the name National Household Economics Association it had 
a separate existence for a decade. Then ten years ago imder the presidency of Mrs. 
Linda Hull Lamed, a merger was planned, and the National Household Economic 
Association ceased to exist, passing on its work to the General Federation of Women's 
Clubs. 

"The special appeal of that first Congress, then of the Committee of ten years ago 
made in 1904 to a representative body of one thousand two himdred and forty-three 
women was to introduce the teaching of domestic science into every school in the 
land where girls are pupils. The appeal of this Committee is the same; but we 
ask this representative body of 4000 women to aid us in obtaining the third and even 
the fourth dimension in our Home Economics work that we may show its depth of 
meaning and teach the spiritual significance of daily life in the home. 

"We have now reached the point when the determination of values in the material 
things of daily maintenance must be made in terms of human efficiency, but this 
efiiciency must be of mind and soul as well as of body. 

"We are asking for women that education which is required to grasp the facts of 
modem economic conditions, and to cope with them in the proper way to bring the 
resources of physics, chemistrj', biology, and other sciences to bear upon the prob- 
lems of the home and for that education which will give young women such spiritual 
satisfaction in their responsibilities and tasks as will lead them to view the vocations 
of homemaking, wife and motherhood, in the light of the world's needs, to realize 
that for them the highest, not the least and most meagre, education is required." 

^liss Johnson then introduced the Hon. P. P. Claxton, U. S. Commissioner of 
Education, who delivered an address on the Educational and Cultural Value of 
Home Economics. He emphasized the possibilities on the scientific side of the 
study, and said that the application of our now vast fund of scientific knowledge was 
the important thing. In speaking of the cultural value of the subject, he made verj' 
clear that no subject in our schools offers greater opportunities for awakening and 
developing the best in us than the subject of Home Economics. 

Commissioner Claxton was followed by Dr. C. F. Langworthy, Chief of Nutrition 
Investigations, U. S. Department of Agriculture. Dr. Langworthy told of the various 
lines of work and investigation that the Department is carrjong on for the benefit of 
the women of the coimtr>', and assured the members of the Fedeiation of the desire of 
the Department to be of service to homekeepers. A large audience gathered for 
the conference in the afternoon and the meeting was an inspiring one. Three topics 
had been chosen for open discussion: WTiat is the Greatest Need of the Home 
Today? \Miat Difficulties have been Encountered in Interesting Clubs in Home 
Economics; and Food Sanitation. 

Mrs. H. ;M. Dunlap of Illinois introduced the first subject. She pointed out the 
necessity for an understanding of the financial relation between husband and wife, 
and the importance of training boys for husbandhood and fatherhood as well as 
training girls for wifehood and motherhood. 

Some of the solutions oflered for the home problems of to-day were as follows: 
comradeship between husband and wife; the putting of greater responsibility on the 
boys and girls; the establishing in the minds of homekeepers the right attitude of 
mind toward homekeeping; the realization of the fact that homekeeping is "big 
business" and that it needs a well trained mind. 



1914] Report of the Department of Home Economics 419 

Among those who took part in the discussion were Prof. Abby Marlatt, Wisconsin 
University; Dean Talbot, Chicago University; Prof. Isabel Bevier, University of 
Illinois; Mrs. LjTiden Evans, Chicago School of Domestic Arts and Science; Mrs. 
Balish, New York; Mrs. Andrews, Massachusetts; Mrs. Norton, Chiaigo; Mi« 
Caroline Hunt, Washington, D. C; Mrs. McKibbens, Oregon; Miss Wimple, Wash- 
ington; Miss Mary Sweeney, University of Kentucky; Miss Edna Rich, Santa 
Barbara Normal School of Home Economics; and Miss Crooks of the Milwaukee- 
Downer College. 

Dean Talbot of Chicago University said in part: 

"Not many generations ago the home was an almost independent unit. It 
manufactured what it consumed. It found its educational and social resources 
largely within itself. There were many hardships and not always much joy, but 
there were compensations in opportunities for training in efliciency, thrift, self- 
reliance, integrity and other so-called 'sterner' virtues. The home of today is in 
striking contrast. Modern inventions and modem industry, the school, the theatre 
and the playground have taken over many of the former interests of the home. It 
has been said that the young man is now learning to make the 'forward pass' in 
football when his grandfather would have been in command of a ship. I am struck 
by the number of students eighteen, nineteen and twenty years old who come to the 
university accompanied by their mothers who frankly and quite naively speak of 
them as 'little girls' and tell how they have never had to look out for themselves at 
all. I am often tempted to ask 'How old were you when you started a household 
of your own?' and not infrequently the answer comes, 'Oh, I was only seventeen or 
eighteen, but that was different!' 

"To keep all the richness of opportunity and the joy of life of the modem home 
and to restore some of the values of the older home seems to me the greatest need 
of today. 

"With the old fashioned chore gone, many parents seek in vain for means of 
character building and tacitly turn over the whole process to outside agencies. I 
would suggest as a device which is too seldom appreciated and utilized, the conduct 
of the business of the family by the group as a whole. If the wife again had com- 
plete knowledge of the family resources, as in the olden time, if the whole family 
took part in conferences to determine the expenditures and activities, if different 
duties and functions were then distributed among the members of the family by 
mutual agreement, I believe that the family would be more unified and strength- 
ened. Moreover, there would inevitably follow from the smaller conceptions of 
mutual obligation higher standards of honor and much greater efEciency." 

Mrs. Olaf N. Guldlin of Fort W'ajTie, Indiana, former Federation Chairman of 
Home Economics, presented the subject of Compulsory Education in Home Eco- 
nomics, discussing the recently passed Indiana law which provides that instruction 
in practical art subjects (agriculture, the industrial and household arts) must be 
offered as regular courses in the public schools of the State. 

The discussion of the subject of Food Sanitation held the interest of all those 
present. Mr. L. E. Tolman, chief government food and drug inspector for the cen- 
tral district, showed the great necessity for having a uniform pure food law. He 
said there should be a uniform regulation of food supplies for city, state or inter- 
state shipment. For so long as there is no such uniform regulation, the inferior 
food that is refused in a district where there is a high standard is shipped to the dis- 
trict where the standard is lower. 



^2o The Journal of Home Economics [October 

Mr. Kmest Kelly, of the U. S. Bureau of Animal Industry, Department of 
Agriculture, gave a short talk on the sanitation of the milk supp'y, in which a 
more uniform and systematic local inspection of the miik supp'y was urged. 

Milk which does not enter into inter-state commerce is control ed entire'y by 
state and municipal authorities, and the U. S. Department of Agriculture is 
powerless to do any but cooperative educational work with the various local 
authorities. Whenever local authorities request aid in making their inspection 
systems more uniform and efficient, the Department of Agriculture is g'ad to 
help by sending a man to work with them. 

The remarks by Dr. George Ditewig, of the Bureau of Animal Industry, U. 
S. Department of Agriculture, directed attention to the importance of meat in- 
spection and to the great need of action on the part of state and municipal 
authoities to supplement the federal inspection, so that the rights and health 
of all consumers of meats can be properly safeguarded. 

The speaker also directed attention to the fact that, under the Federal Meat 
Inspection law, the Department of Agriculture is without authority to enforce 
its terms except for meats and products intended for inter-state or foreign 
commerce. 

Dr. Harry E. Barnard, State Food Commissioner of Indiana, stated that it is 
impossible to put enough federal, state or municipal food inspectors into the field to 
insure clean food for our people unless they have the constant active support of the 
women of the country. 

Mr. W. Scott Matthews said that women's clubs, as representatives of the great 
number of purchasing housewives, have under their control the principal means of 
opposing impure foods. If women refuse to patronize the careless merchant, he 
wiU soon cease to exist, because no store can be maintained without customers. 

Each speaker emphasized the point that pure food is now practically secured, and 
that the attention of the housekeepers should be focused upon securing a safe and 
sanitary supply of "clean food," inspected manufactories, bakeries, and the inspec- 
tion of those employees who handle food in its making, packing or distribution. 

The rest of the time was taken up with a very profitable discussion of the difficulties 
which the various state chairmen had experienced in their work, and how the many 
difficult problems had been met. 

The most important resolution passed was the following : 

Whereas, The Congress of the United States by the passage of the Smith-Lever 
act has made available federal funds for the education of women in Home Eco- 
nomics. 

Be It Resolved: First, that we express our great appreciation of this action; and 
second, that we offer the service of the Home Economics Department of the General 
Federation of Womens Clubs in furthering the purpose of this law. 

Altogether Home Economics Day was a wonderful success. It was a day full of 
inspiration and every Club woman carried with her from the Biennial the feeling that 
no field of club activity offered greater opportunities for doing the things worth while 
in life. 

It was very evident that a single day's session was all too short to present the great 
movement in progress in Home Economics at the present time. 

Flora Hartley Greene 
Pearl MacDonald 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Home, Institution, School 

EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR 

Mrs. Mary H. Abel Keturah E. Baldwin 

EDITORIAL BOARD 
Benj. R. Andrews C. F. Lamgworthy 

Isabel Ely Lord Anna Barrows 

COLLABORATORS 
The OfTicers and Members of the Council 

Vol. VI DIX'K.MIiKR, 1914 Xo. 5 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Fundamental conceptions of Home Economics, Sarah Louise Arnold 421 

Current problems in Home Economics, David Snedden 430 

School lunches, Mary E. L. Small, Margaret McMillan and Ira S. Wile. . . . 437 

Housework, English and immigants, Emily Greene Balch 447 

Kanahoah, The House of Friends, ZMabel Ward 449 

What federal meat inspection has done for the country, B. T. Galloway. . . . 454 

"-The influence of glucose on the cooking temperatures of candy syrups. Amy 

Daniels and Martha Troxell 457 

'^'Score cards, Tnga ]\r. K. .\llison 460 

Food values of diets in British workhouses, Mar>- G. McCormick 463 

Food value of asparagus 464 

The chemistry of a cup of coffee 466 

Editorials 468 

Housekeepers' department 471 

Bibliography for Home Economics literature 487 

Books and literature 491 

Books received 500 

News from the field ?oi 



The Journal of Home Economics is published five times during the year. February*, April, 
June, October, December, by the American Home Economics Association. 

$2.00 A YEAR. FOREIGN $2.25. SINGLE COPIES 50 CENTS. 

HOW TO REMIT. Remittances should be sent by Draft on New York, Express Order, or 
Post-' '.l..-ie, ''I'der, pajabie to the .American Home Economics Association. Currency, unless 
mailed in a r :', -ered letter, is at the sender's risk. 

CHANGE IN ADDRESS. Notice of change in address should be sent Two Weeks before 
the date of issue on which the change is to take effect. The change cannot be made unless the 
subscriber's Old Address is clearly indicated in addition to the New Address. 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 
Roland Park Branch, Baltimore, Md. 

Entered as second class matter at the Baltimore Post Office. 



THE 

Journal^/^Home Economics 

Vol. VI DECEMBER, 1914 No. 5 

FUNDAMENTAL CONCEPTIONS OF HOME 
ECONOMICS^ 

Sarah Louise Arnold 

Doctor Grenfel, in lecturing to the students of Harvard University, 
chose as his subject "What life means to me." It is probable that 
his lectures, interpreting his conception of life, gave to the students 
the best that he could possibly have given; for the utmost that we 
can do for another is to interpret life as we have seen it. This may be 
done through pictures, through sculpture, through buildings, through 
machinery, through words; but the chief contribution of any indi- 
vidual is to render back in some fashion, for the service of others, 
the picture of life as it seems to him. 

I therefore shall not apologize for using the pronoun "I," or for giv- 
ing as my last message to you a statement of the essentials of Home 
Economics as they appear to me. I shall be more than glad if by 
this means I can contribute something toward perspective, and per- 
haps withdraw our attention from the immediate detail to center it 
upon the goal which we are seeking together. 

Our conception of Home Economics must be both partial and pro- 
gressive. It means various things to the various individuals gathered 
here tonight. It will probably mean something finer and better to 
each and every one of us in the years to come. 

One cannot work very long with hundreds of girls without coming 
to realize that it takes girls, and all of us, a long while to grow up. 
John Fiske, in the Destiny of Man, shows us what gifts have come 
to the human race through the prolongation of infancy; but even 

' President's Address, presented at the Seventh Annual Meeting of the American 
Home Economics Association, Cleveland, 1914. 

421 



422 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

John Fiske assumed that infancy had been outgrown when the child 
emerged from the care of the home. It is true, however, that we are 
never fully grown up. We have the infant's approach to any subject, 
the child's experience of it, and later the mature understanding. It 
is probable that our ideas of Home Economics belong to these three 
stages of experience. Let us follow our notions back to the begin- 
ning and see what the home has meant to us. 

I think I was like most people in first looking at the home as the 
place where I belonged and where it was natural that I should be 
taken care of. This home was as fundamental as the forest or the 
rocks that bordered the sea. It never occurred to me that the home 
had not always been there. It was perfectly reasonable that it should 
shelter me and my family. I was imconscious of the fact that those 
early days of my childhood were shaping my various conceptions of 
life and giving me, through the daily teaching of the home, not only 
language but the fundamental and indispensable ideas which underlie 
the ordinary vocabulary. The facts and relations came as naturally 
to my imderstanding as did the home itself. But childhood receives 
this great gift with complete unconsciousness. It is only in the last 
years of life that we look back with understanding upon this won- 
derful experience. Yet the corner-stone of education is laid in the 
home and perhaps the essential contribution of the home is that it is 
first and foremost a school as well as a shelter. 

Those of us who teach know how widely different are the capacities 
and the understanding of the various children who come to us to be 
taught. We say of one, "She has been well brought up," of another 
that her home is meager and poor. The understanding which the one 
brings is the product of the home environment and is perhaps the 
most important income from the investment which has been made in 
the home. 

Over across the street from the old New England home where I 
lived was a knoll beyond the hollow. The house looked toward the 
sunset, which I saw always behind the pines and oaks upon the knoll. 
This last I called a hill. Beneath the trees were my playgroimds, 
and with my cousins I used to make playhouses. I never thought 
of the meaning of the word; playhouse was a thing by itself, not a 
house which I made in play. It was built of shingles with bricks; 
that was fundamental construction. It was modeled upon the Par- 
thenon, though unconsciously. I remember that the bricks had to 



1914] Fundamental Conceptions of Home Economics 423 

be selected with preat care, for it was a matter of the utmost necessity 
that the shingles should lie flat. 

This house contained my real treasures, the things which I thought 
were essential to life — broken glass, cracked dishes and the nose of 
an abandoned teapot. I have never had any treasures since that were 
much more valuable to me than these were at that time. 

I remember another playhouse, a somewhat dilapidated top of an 
old-fashioned covered wagon of the sort that appeared only in the 
East. In order to get into the back seat, one had to climb over the 
front seat. This wagon had for some reason lost its wheels and was 
set down by the barn. It was a most delightful house — the second 
stage beyond bricks and shingles, partly prepared for me by man and 
not despised therefor. 

Now all of this is meant to recall to you that you and I made what 
we call playhouses. Have you ever seen the bird making her nest 
in the spring? Have you seen her fasten together the mud and the 
twine, the grass and the sticks, and then shape together with her 
breast the material which she has brought? The instinct of making 
her nest is her inheritance. I believe that there is born into every 
himian being the same instinct that shows itself in the robin as she 
carries her mud and sticks to the place which she has chosen in the 
crotch of the apple tree. You and I showed it as we set up our bricks 
and shingles to make our playhouses. This is a primitive, dominant 
instinct, and I believe that it will never depart from the human race. 
One of the functions of Home Economics is to make clear that this 
instinct expresses the law of God, who himself has put into our hearts 
to make homes, to shape them and maintain them. 

One purpose of ours, then, should be to take hold of hands with 
all the agencies which are at work doing this fundamental thing. 
Those who are busy in social service are working for the same purpose, 
to create and maintain the home and to make it as good as a home 
can be. I am comforted when I count the many who have the same 
vision and express the same desire. I hope that as the years go on 
we shall understand clearly this effort in others, shall recognize the 
conomon purpose and shall take hold of hands with all those who are 
helping to bring better homes to all the human race. 

I have a compassionate feeling for the little girl who used to make 
her house of shingles and bricks, satisfied with broken china, with 
moss and acorn-cups. But should I not be just as compassionate 



424 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

and tender in my thoughts of those who are building their playhouses 
all around us? WTiat was the use of a playhouse? Merely to educate 
the child. Most of us would think that it did not matter if the mean- 
dering cow kicked it over. 

Just a little while ago there was a shiver in one of our great cities. 
We saw the headlines in the paper that San Francisco had fallen to 
the ground and that its houses were in ashes. I had recently visited 
San Francisco and had admired the energy, enthusiasm and spirit 
that made the city what it was. The whole country was desolate 
as we thought of the homes that had been lost. Today, when you 
visit San Francisco, you find a fair and wonderful city. Other homes 
have taken the place of the playhouses that were there before. What 
had they been there for? What had they done? Ah! The enduring 
thing that belonged to the little playhouse of mine was the part of it 
that went into me — the thing that I became through the play, which 
was just as much a part of me as the work which I enjoyed no less. 
And the thing which endures in these other houses of ours is, after 
all, that which passes into us. If this is true, it was not San Francisco 
that went up in smoke and was gathered up in ashes. Go there today 
and you will find abiding the thing that was there before, only finer and 
stronger than ever. The real thing, then, that happens in oiu- home- 
making is that the home becomes a part of us, and the thing to be 
coimted essential in the home is the thing that the boy or girl carries 
away. 

In that old gray house fronting the west was an old-fashioned secre- 
tary whose drawers were full of letters. Many of them had come 
from the battlefield and were written by "the boys" who had gone 
to the front. I read the letters over and over and knew, even as a child, 
what it might mean to show heroism on the battlefield. But I also 
read on page after page the assurance that the strength that was 
shown in battle was built upon the teaching of the home. What 
the mother had said and done, what the father had been, came out in 
the boy on the battlefield. I suspect that the spirit which rebuilt 
San Francisco had been nurtured in those earlier homes. It was 
that spirit that had made the home worth while and insured the re- 
building of the city. 

As we grow older, then, we come to understand that the home which 
in childhood we had thought existed for oiur convenience, was not 
for itself alone. It is possible that even in our maturer years we 



igi4l Fundamental Conceptions of Home Economics 425 

have thought of each home as a separate unit existing for itself or for 
a particular family. It is that, but it is also something greater. It 
is a growing-place, by means of which we become prepared to share 
in the great business of life, carrying our load and contributing our 
strength. We must not forget, then, that these growing-places will 
differ. The thing which is suited to one group will be inadequate 
for another. We must remember this when we are discussing values 
and when we are measuring efficiency. It will help us to exercise the 
compassion and tenderness of which I have spoken before. It will 
help us to be reasonable in our requirements. The thing in our 
neighbor's home which seems to us useless may be a link, in the chain 
which is lifting her to a clearer understanding. 

I once read in Good Housekeeping in the column called "Dis- 
coveries," a letter from a woman who described the use which she had 
made of a broken flat-iron. It had lost its handle. She converted 
it into a pin-cushion around which she tied a blue ribbon, thus adding 
to both convenience and beauty. I remember making some laugh- 
ing comment upon the discovery; but I have no doubt that the flat- 
iron pin-cushion had the same use as did the teapot nose and the 
other bits of cracked china in my playhouse. We are all children 
of a larger growth, and the flat-iron, padded and beribboned and turned 
to a use for which neither nature nor grace had designed it, was prob- 
ably performing the same function for its owner as did my acorn-cups 
and bricks and shingles for me. It indicated one of the stages on 
the way; it was one of the implements in her playhouse; and by-and- 
by there may come from her succession of experiences the same ideals 
that have emerged from yours and mine. If this is true, it behooves 
us who are interested in Home Economics to be very generous and 
tolerant and patient in our dealing with people in their various homes. 
I think I should have resented it very much if my big brother had said 
to me that my acorn-cups were good for nothing; it was not true — 
they were good for something, and he would have had no more right 
to interfere with my treasures of that day than with my bank account 
today. It is just possible that one is as important as the other. If 
we go with a ruthless hand and a critical eye into the homes of our 
neighbors, we shall find many things to displace. We would sub- 
stitute a great many things of our own, for we are likely to forget that 
these friends are passing through stages of development which differ 
from ours at the present time, yet which are just as essential to them 



426 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

as our various steps have been to us. We should be very careful in 
dealing with these treasures that belong to others, very gentle in speak- 
ing of them, very cautious not to underrate them. We may be per- 
fectly sure that they will be abandoned as soon as these friends have 
found something better. We should deal uith them as we do with the 
baby, when instead of snatching away the treasure which he has 
seized, we substitute something else which we try to make attractive. 
Let us act in the same way with our neighbors. We cannot make 
humanity leap from one stage to another. 

We build the ladder by which we rise 
From the lowly earth to the vaulted skies, 
And we mount to its svunmit round by round. 

All the way along, we spend our money for the things which seem 
to us worth while. I have often said to college girls that I would 
like to have a panorama which would report faithfully to me in succes- 
sion the things which they have loved from their childhood up. How 
the values would change! I know a small boy, a minister's son, who 
was devoted through his childhood days to the idea of becoming a 
clown. His older sister frankly told him that he was likely to fulfill 
his ambition, but nobody else laughed very much at it, and he lived 
through the period when to be a clown was his highest ambition. He 
has changed his sense of values. I wonder if we are not all paying 
high for the treasure which we substitute for the great essentials. 

A father said to me the other day, "I have just been talking with 
my boy and telling him that every dollar stands for the work of some 
man and before he spends it, he must stop to think what he is spend- 
ing it for." I shall not discuss this evening how women spend the 
money that men have earned. We have heard much on that topic 
and there is room yet for greater wisdom than we now display in such 
spending. But we hear much less of another theme which I wish we 
might discuss in our Home Economics. The thing which we all are 
spending most prodigally is that precious, precious thing which will 
never be returned to us, called time. To the old gray house facing 
westward, used to come, when I was a little girl, two dear old great- 
aunts named Betsy and Dolly. They came in a covered wagon 
from a street just a few miles away called Back Street. They were 
safely convoyed to our home by an old and steadfast sorrel horse. 
By his help they crossed the railroad track and followed the wide. 



1914] Fundamental Conceptions of Home Economics 427 

sandy road until they reached us. Having been welcomed and brought 
in to their rocking chairs by the window they began to "spend the 
day." After a half hour or so, the train would rumble past the field 
behind the house and Betsy would say to Dolly, "We have just es- 
caped the cars." 

The thing they came for was the thing that nobody talks about 
now. Who is there in this audience who ever "spends the day" with 
a friend? I wonder what it would mean for you and me to spend a 
day as wisely as we try to spend that dollar bill? What is all this 
labor that is conserved in dollar bills? What shall we give to this 
poor mother who is struggling to support her children, another dollar 
if she will work all day or an hour to spend in quiet and peace? I 
sometimes wish that we might stop talking for a while about the thing 
called efficiency and try to learn how we are spending the stuff that 
life is made of. 

Not long ago some fellow-passengers on a train told me of a recent 
visit to a great factory where the administration presented the triumph 
of efficiency. "It was a fearful place," said the gentleman. "I saw 
men standing in ranks and doing one thing over and over all day 
long at the topmost speed. If anyone halted for a moment, he stopped 
the whole line. He must keep up his speed so that his neighbor would 
not lose a minute." The gentleman's wife added, "Think of spend- 
ing a day like that and all the days! What have you left at night? 
What will you be at the end of a year? What can you do besides 
the one thing with which you have filled your days?" I wish that we 
might give more thought to the wise spending of time. I wish we 
might revive that conception of the home which in the olden time 
permitted the spending of a day with a friend. We spend our money 
prodigally in that which we call entertainment. Let us be more thrifty 
and spend our hours with our friends in the home which has learned 
how to provide for them the richest treasures of our experience. 

WTien once we have realized what the home is for and what its 
richest gifts may be, we shall make different decisions as to comfort 
and convenience. A young friend of mine married but did not set 
up housekeeping. She and her husband "boarded." Perhaps you 
do not know what that means. I once asked a small boy in school 
where he lived, and he replied, "I don't live; I board." These people 
"boarded" because they wanted to "save." The wife became a sales- 
woman and liked it so well that she would not go to housekeeping. 



428 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

"I like to spend what I earn." "What do you buy," I asked. "Oh, 
clothes, suits, hats, ribbons and gloves." "Let us keep house," said 
the husband. "Oh no," she replied, "We can have so much more 
if I earn, too." So the days were spent for hats and clothes and the 
great and beautiful thing which these two might have had in their 
lives, never came. Should we not try to find out, first of all, why the 
home is worth while and what things are worth while to do in the 
home, instead of multiplying recipes and adding mere conveniences? 
ShaU we not come to understand what it means to "spend" our days 
in the home so that the lives of all who share its shelter shall become 
great and beautiful? What a rare income that would bring us! How 
we should discover the worthlessness of many of the things for which 
we strive and the marvel of many which we now let go! A little niece 
of mine walking by my side at the seashore and handing me one white 
stone after another, said all at once, "It is so queer, so many beautiful 
things you pass right by." The childish words were a stab. She 
was seeing there on the seashore the beautiful things that I had passed 
by, and I had lost the vision and understanding of childhood. In 
Jeannette Lee's delightful book, "Uncle William" tells us that "most 
of us don't pay attention enough to just a-li\dn'." Is there no path 
by which we can return to such understanding? Can we not find in 
our homes the great joy of a simple and wholesome life in which the 
essential things come first? 

If we are justified in thinking of the home at first as our very own, 
the place of shelter where we belong, the place that was made for us 
and where we are first, we must also remember that this is not the 
only light in which the home must be considered. Someone has said, 
"Charity does begin at home, but it should not end there." While 
the home is for ourselves, it is also for others. A friend of mine has 
often said to me that old-fashioned hospitality is dying out. When 
she was a girl Uving in the big city, she often found her mug and 
tooth brush on the attic stairs, which meant that she must give up 
her room for the night to some friend who had come. I recently 
met another friend, an attractive old lady, who said that she had 
"put up" her friends at the club — "So convenient, you have no bother 
of entertaining." It was a far cry from the day of the mug and the 
tooth brush on the attic stairs, with the friends on the inside of the 
house and vmder the roof, to this day of prosperity, when one can care 
for her friends by paying the bill at a club. 



1 9 14] Fwndamental Conceptions of Home Economics 429 

Some of us remember the time when every neighbor called upon 
the home for strength or comfort or help. When a neighbor was 
sick, someone in the family went to nurse or sit up at night. The 
"watcher," when death had visited the house, was the next-door neigh- 
bor. Now, one goes to a big hospital and the rest of the world goes 
on just the same; but we have bartered our birthright for a mess of 
pottage. The home is not for ourselves alone. It is for all who need 
it. Elizabeth Whittier pictures the Bedouin sitting at the door of 
his tent and calling to all who are in need, to come in. She urges 
upon us the same open hospitality. 

Whoever thou art whose need is great, 
In the name of Christ, the compassionate 
And merciful One, for thee we wait. 

Jane Addams tells us of the crowded tenement house into which 
was welcomed a young woman whose husband had deserted her. 
She led one baby by the hand. Another baby was yet to come. The 
father of this tenement family went out and slept in the park for 
two weeks, night after night, that there might be room left in the 
crowded rooms for this deserted woman and her child. Think of the 
beauty of that hospitality and friendliness. Are the virtues of hospi- 
tality restricted to the very poor? 

I have suggested the essential elements of Home Economics as I 
see the work. I hope we shall not change for the thing called effi- 
ciency the real treasures of our home life. I hope that we shall not 
barter our birthright for the mess of pottage. I trust that we shall 
not exchange hospitaUty for convenience and comfort. I trust that 
we shall have such vision as will reveal to us what homes are for and 
that we shall come to understand that no peace can come to any home 
of ours unless we iielp to bring peace and fullness and worth and 
comfort and understanding to all homes in this beloved land of ours. 



430 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

CURRENT PROBLEMS IN HOME ECONOMICS^ 

David Snedden 
Commissioner oj Education in Massachusetts 

Dr. Snedden in his address filled the role of prophet and of critic and thus lays 
us under a double debt. We often ask of the social economist that he foretell for 
us the material surroundings and altered function of the home fifty or even twenty- 
five years hence, so that our curriculum and social plans may be adjusted to the 
inevitable changes, but we ask in vain. We are, therefore, the more glad to give 
space to Dr. Snedden's views of future social conditions. 

Equally suggestive, whether we agree with him or not, are his criticisms of the 
current methods of instruction. The Journal would be very glad to receive from 
its readers discussion of these views. — Editor. 

We may well assume that if present tendencies continue, there will 
be within the boundaries of the United States upwards of one hundred 
and fifty million people in 1964. Probably there will be among these 
relatively fewer very rich people, and also fewer very poor people 
than at present. FamiUes of middle class or rank, in the economic 
sense, will have slightly larger families, and people less well off will 
have smaller families than at present. The great majority of married 
women will give their entire working time to home-making, with em- 
ployed assistance as at present only at critical periods. Nearly all 
young women will enter upon wage-earning careers of from five to 
ten years in length prior to marriage, and after having received a suit- 
able general education. The state will insist that every girl or young 
woman shall at some time learn, in a definite and effective fashion, 
the more essential arts of soimd home-making. 

By that time we shall have learned much more than we now know 
regarding the most effective methods of education in Home Economics, 
as well as in other fields. Parents and, when feasible, girls themselves 
will be carefully and authoritively advised at successive stages as to 
the most desirable educational and vocational careers which daughters 
should follow in the light of their abilities, their economic conditions, 
and their persistent interests. Young women mil be given definite 
preparation for wage -earning callings — many of which callings will 
probably be in homes, as we cease relying upon immigrants for do- 
mestic service. But the requirements of preparation for wage-earning 
vocations will not be allowed seriously to interfere with the far more 

^ Presented at the Seventh Annual Meeting of the American Home Economics 
Association, Cleveland, 1914. Dr. Snedden's address is given in part. 



1 9 14] Current Problems in Home Economics 431 

important social demand for systematic training for home-making. 
It will be accepted as fundamental that in a sound and enduring society 
a large majority, approximating one hundred per cent, of all women 
must be expected eventually to become wives and mothers. It will 
be generally agreed that we cannot permanently depend upon recently 
imported peoples either to perform the so-called menial service of 
the home, or in largest measure to recruit our population. It will 
be widely recognized that a sound citizenship and a people capable 
of establishing and sustaining wholesome standards of living can only 
be developed under conditions favoring the establishment of a maxi- 
mum number of relatively small and well-kept famihes. This condi- 
tion will also require that very few sound men and women suited to 
become fathers and mothers shall forego the fine responsibilities of 
parenthood. 

The proper home in such a society will itself be a work of art, and its 
suitable management will require the skilled service of a well trained 
woman, willingly accepting such a work as a career reaching over many 
years and to be entered upon with much forethought. Obviously, the 
preparation of the young woman for such a career as home-making 
will be no small task. Her education to this end must itself be a 
purposeful and scientific affair, and especially so in an age in which 
custom and tradition as the foimdation of practical activities will 
be still in process of being replaced by definitely scientific procedures. 
Certain prominent features of that education can even now be fore- 
casted, in the Hght of current developments. 

Above everything else, it will be an education based upon practice, 
upon doing, followed by comprehension of the theory back of the ac- 
tion. The girl as learner will first make beginnings in the practice 
of any particular household art, after which she vnW be led to com- 
prehend the technical — that is, the imderlying scientific or artistic — 
principles of the art, as well as her educational development permits. 
The general control and administration of all this education will be 
under schools, because schools are specialized agencies established 
to give education; but, these schools will utilize, as a most valuable 
part of their educational ways and means, the homes in which girls 
live, or work for hire. 

It will then be clearly recognized that there are two distinct forms 
of education in the home-making or household calHngs, according as 
the controlling purpose is to establish right standards of utilization or 
consumption, on the one hand, or on the other hand to establish effec- 



A ^2 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

tive powers of working, doing, executing or performing. The pedagogi- 
cal means and methods of these two forms of education will differ as 
widely as will the aims to be realized. We can, for example, readily 
imagine that by 1964 very httle of the clothing to be worn by children 
will be made in the home; and that under such a condition, each 
woman will receive quite definite training not in the art of making, 
but in the art of selecting. She may not be trained at all in making 
clothing of any sort, any more than she is now trained in spinning and 
weaving. She will be trained to make what the economist calls an 
effective and intelligent demand, as consimier, on people who make a 
business of producing clothing, repairing shoes, etc. On the other 
hand, she may possibly be trained to be an eflScient repairer of clothing 
on her own account. She will be, undoubtedly, trained in the arts 
of nursing a sick child, but in the field of medicine proper she will 
be trained chiefly to choose and to use wisely, properly trained medical 
service. As regards indeed all of the thousand forms of usefulness 
which the home-maker of the future will render, a fairly sharp dis- 
tinction in preliminary education will have to be made according as 
her function is to be, in the first place a producer of utilities or skilled 
technical ser\ice, or in the second place a buyer, chooser and utihzer. 
A system of home-making education which does not make this funda- 
mental distinction will flounder amidst perpetual confusions and 
short-comings. 

It is to be hoped and expected that in the social economy of the 
future, household service on a wage basis will be not less attractive 
than other gainful callings, but rather more so to young unmarried 
women. The bulk of employed household service of 1964 will prob- 
ably be given by fairly well trained young women prior to the age of 
marriage. Society will prize this form of service because it will Hnk 
up with a systematic training for home-making in a way which will 
be more effective for all concerned than wage-earning work in the 
industrial and commercial callings. To help realize this end, ob- 
viously, women will have to become better employers than they are 
at present. Many women today, are, as employers of service, hardly 
more humane or intelligent than the managers of our worst corpora- 
tions so far as making for the better development of their employees is 
concerned. In this respect new ideas and ideals are even now rapidly 
forming, and with the gradual cessation of immigration, necessity 
will add pressure to present tendencies to induce women to make 



1914] Current Problems in Home Economics 433 

wage-earning household service an attractive and upbuilding force in 
society. 

The first tendency which is, perhaps, wrong in much of the current 
teaching of Home Economics Ues in the direction of its bearing on 
current over-refinement or over-elaboration of standards of living. 
We focus our attention so largely upon quality of service, upon stand- 
ards of taste, that we fail to give sufficient attention to the cost of 
what we produce in terms of money, time, and energy. Many of us 
must believe that in middle class society as it is today, an overwhelm- 
ingly disproportionate amount of energy is expended upon refinements 
of personal decoration, household cleanliness, table service and in other 
related directions. We believe that our attainments in these direc- 
tions are purchased at the very serious expense of more children in 
the family, the freedom of development of the children already there, 
the health of the mother, and the development of all the members 
of the family along other more wholesome and enduring Hnes. If 
it can be demonstrated that in these directions there are at present 
many harmful tendencies in society, then surely schools of home- 
making must set their standards in the direction of simplification, of 
correct valuation of the relative advantages of different things which 
painstaking labor and money can procure, and of putting a premium 
upon what is genuinely higher and more wholesome living. Now, 
with of course notable exceptions, schools are not yet doing this in 
any degree adequate to the requirements of the age in which we live. 

A second wrong tendency in much of the Home Economics teaching 
of today, as is found in the prevailing practice of introducing the in- 
struction with the more abstract underlying principles, and in em- 
phasizing these at the expense of the study of their practical applica- 
tion. 

Now the one clear object that the layman can discern as guiding 
in the teaching of Home Economics is the intellectual mastery of cer- 
tain organized knowledge. To a slight extent, also, it is evident that 
certain definite forms of skill in execution are made to serve as objec- 
tives. But if one asks what more ultimate purpose this knowle 'ge 
or that particular form of skill is to serve in the well-being of the in- 
dividual or of the society to which he belongs, the replies received will 
be vague and inconclusive. Some of the larger ends alleged to be 
held in view are really faith ends, rather than scientific ends — that is, 
they represent aspirations rather than clearly defined goals, as to which 



434 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

the stages in the process of reaUzation are capable of definition, attack, 
and gradual mastery. Courses of instruction in Home Economics 
as well as classes at work seem to lack a definite and reasoned con- 
sciousness of final aim or purpose. In this respect Home Economics 
is no worse off than many other subjects, especially in the fields of 
secondar>' and collegiate education. But because there is here a new 
field, unhampered by traditions and ancient customs, one is tempted 
to look for larger manifestations of the scientific constructive spirit 
than are to be found in the teaching of the historic subjects. 

Home Economics will never come into its full heritage until it is 
organized with definite reference to the attainment of ends that are 
demonstrably valid and so clearly formulated and evaluated that the 
efficiency of our procedures — our studies, practices, and methods — can 
be tested against them. This will require, for one thing, that we de- 
cide to what extent vocational aims shall control in our work; that we 
decide for what vocations we are preparing; and that we unsparingly 
test the efficacy of the means which we adopt. It means, for another 
thing, that we decide how far and in what direction Home Economics 
work is useful as a means of general culture and civic capacity — the 
development of powers for wise choice and uhtization as against 
powers of execution; what are the specific forms of this culture and 
civism that are most worth while and how they shall be attained 
in the cases of various groups of young people with whom we may 
deal; and how, again, we shall test the serviceableness of the means 
employed. 

What seems to be another prominent defect in current Home Eco- 
nomics education is its failure to use the Uving home as a part of its 
opportunities for cooperative effort and, indeed, as its chief working 
laboratory. Why should not many phases of Home Economics in 
secondary schools be so taught that the practical phases of the work 
can be carried on in the homes of the girls themselves. If students 
are hving under dormitory conditions, why should not these serve 
as a basis for the practical study and appHcation of such arts as cook- 
ing, sewing, etc., by groups of students hmited in size? 

Reference has already been made to the over-technical and insuffi- 
ciently practical character of much of the education offered. In part, 
this is due to the ease with which so-called technical subjects — pure 
or appUed science, appHed art, etc. — can be taught in accordance with 
the traditions of academic education. The most difficult teaching 



1914] Current Problems in Home Economics 435 

is that which, proceeding through practice on projects based upon 
the practical requirements of life, leads into a mastery of the related 
and needed technical knowledge. But there is abimdant experience 
to show that for most students such an approach, properly made, is 
the most eflfective that can be devised. 

It is probable that in so far as work in Home Economics is to be 
regarded as vocational, programs should be so adjusted as to insure 
a large amount of concentration during the time that the vocational 
aim is held in view. For example, a day school for home-making 
should give from six to eight hours per day to that and related sub- 
jects; at least half of this time should be spent in the home, working 
on definite projects which the school has assigned; this work should 
be supervised by the regvdar home-making teacher, visiting the girls 
at work as far as practicable; the school instruction should be based 
largely upon the practical projects being followed; and general read- 
ing in related fields should be a part of the course. A concentrated 
program of this sort will give more effective results in three months, 
than years spent on the two or three hours per week plan now so widely 
in vogue. Such a program w^ould insure that each teacher will learn 
the requirements, the standards, and the potentialities of the homes 
of her pupils. She will be compelled to make her teaching practical 
because to so large an extent the results will have to speak for them- 
selves. Her work should be organized on a definite project basis. 
This is easy to secure in most phases of the teaching of home-making. 
Let a girl be responsible for the making of definite articles of clothing ; 
or for the preparation of the family breakfasts for two weeks; or for 
doing all the baking required for a similar period; or for taking full 
charge of an infant for a week; or for undertaking a definite assign- 
ment of laundry work; or for doing the revarnishing of the furniture 
of two rooms — these and scores of similar assignments are possible. 
Of course the teacher should have no more pupils than she can handle 
effectively. 

What is here suggested would doubtless involve almost a revolution 
in much of the educational practice of our household arts classes. Few, 
perhaps, will agree with this pedagogical view, but my experience as 
well as my understanding of recent studies of psychology and peda- 
gog>', convince me that it is in this direction we must look for a 
genuinely functioning education, especially in the vocational fields. 
This proposal implies no necessary lessening as to the scope and amotmt 



436 The Journal oj Home Economics [December 

of study which shall ultimately be given to the principles of science 
and of pure art as these apply in practice, but it reverses the order 
of approach and procedure now commonly used. 

A distinction may, of course, within limits be drawn as regards this 
alleged wrong tendency in vocational training, between courses in col- 
leges and technical institutions designed to prepare teachers, admin- 
istrators, and research specialists, and those other far more numerous 
courses designed for prospective home-makers and the rank and file 
of workers. The importance of thorough-going technical training 
for the former class is freely admitted. It is probable that, because 
in the earlier institutions dealing with Home Economics the pressure 
for trained teachers and other leaders was so marked, almost all pro- 
grams became more or less affected by the somewhat peculiar nature 
of these demands. It seems to be characteristic of almost all kinds 
of vocational training to be imduly influenced by the standards appro- 
priate to the exceptional few who will take leading positions. 

We shall have to learn that nearly all vocational education — as, 
indeed, other forms of education also — must be individualized. The 
teacher must be regarded as a supervisor of apprentices. We coddle 
too much in our practical classes at present. Each pupil must have 
his job — a large job, fairly well within his capacity. Much planning 
and prearrangement will be required. Some directions, read or given, 
may convey technical knowledge, but the bulk of the technical knowl- 
edge should grow out of, and not precede experience. The pupil must 
early learn to rely largely upon printed or written directions. 

It is possible to apply these principles also to evening and part 
time instruction in hcme-making, for working girls. Give one eve- 
ning per week to class-room instruction ; and let the teachers give two 
other evenings per week to visiting the girls in their own homes, while 
they are at work on the projects assigned. 

If we ever come to the point where a considerable number of girls 
are working as wage-earners in homes, the problems of instruction 
for these should be simpler still. 

Still another deficiency which seems to characterize much of the 
Home Economics teaching as found in elementary and secondary 
schools at the present time is failure adequately to take accoimt of 
the standards of living to which the average American home is neces- 
sarily limited. Is it clearly reaHzed that in the large majority of 
American families in which the husband and father is a wage- earner 
the total income is less than $1000 a year? Do the programs of Home 



1914] School Lunches 437 

Economics instruction now found, especially in our secondary schools, 
seem to be based upon a clear conception of the necessary limitation 
as to expenditure existing under these conditions? To what extent 
are the teachers of Home Economics themselves cognizant of the 
actual standards of living which must be based upon incomes of this 
magnitude, or in immigrant centers, the national tastes and habits 
regarding special dishes? Can it not be charged that our Home 
Economics teaching today is adjusted too exclusively to standards 
of Hving of our middle class population, a level of population where, 
broadly speaking, the need for this instruction should exist in least 
degree? We have looked in vain in the programs of most of oui sys- 
tematic Home Economics teaching to find clear indications of a 
thorough-going realization of the facts here suggested. 



SCHOOL LUNCHES 

Extracts from reports made by leaders in the school lunch movement in three 
large cities are here given. As will be seen, the social possibilities of the school 
lunch are to be regarded as of no less importance than the proper nourishment of 
the body. 

EDUCATIONAL AND SOCIAL POSSIBILITIES OF SCHOOL 
LUNCHES 

Mary E. L. Small 

To supply the immediate need of food, private philanthropy estab- 
lished in some places the "penny lunch" and while it filled a need, 
there were many criticisms that it led to pauperizing, to relieving 
women of maternal responsibility, to creating wrong values and in 
many instances to promoting wastefulness and disorder. 

To take away the stigma of "pauperizing," the city ordinance of 
Buffalo commands "food to be sold at cost of material" — the fund 
appropriated being available only for maintenance. Under these 
conditions, parents in the very best districts have petitioned for the 
warm lunch for their children, when the distance of the school has 
precluded the possibility of going home at noon. The children of 
the well-to-do parents and the children of the poor have learned to 
sit quietly as one family, to talk pleasantly with each other, to eat 
their food properly, and many acts of courtesy and generosity have 
been encouraged. 



438 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

These lunch rooms reflect the personality of the teacher in charge, 
and sometimes rooms with a north or west exposure appear to be full 
of sunshine in the noon hour; the gentle, smiling teacher (of whom 
the children said, "Oh, we love our cooking teacher!"), the happy chil- 
dren, a flower or two or some growing green things on the white tables, 
a quotation on the blackboard, with perhaps a picture or two on the 
walls. A favorite picture for the lunch room is "Thanksgiving" 
(Jessie Wilcox Smith) and its silent example is much more potent 
than many words on the subject of thankfulness. 

There is much illustrative material ordinarily used in Domestic 
Science laboratories which is readily adapted to the lunch room, and 
which adds interest as well as educational value. 

The Perry Picture Company has many beautiful copies of fruit, 
vegetables, nuts and fish. Dr. Langworthy's Food Charts, for sale 
at the Government Printing Ofl&ce, are invaluable. These pictures 
form the subject of many informal lessons in the nature of talks, the 
children acquiring much valuable information almost unconsciously. 

Habits of neatness are inculcated; running water, liquid soap 
and paper toweling are pro\dded, and the children are required to 
wash their hands before the meal. 

The physiology of digestion is taught in simple talks on what to 
eat, and when, and how, and why. One principal testifies that since 
the "Cocoa Treatment" was instituted in her school, she has ceased 
to doctor children in the afternoon for head and stomach aches. 

The nutritive value of the school lunch is undisputed — the social 
and ethical sides are not so universally recognized except by those 
in close touch with the work. To those actively engaged this is the 
most important part of the movement. Perhaps nothing will more 
clearly express what can be accomplished along these lines than 
two personal observations. 

As a nation we are somewhat lacking in manners; in no case more 
strongly marked than in the half growa youth, who is apt to be brusque 
and self-conscious. In one of our schools here, at the end of the lun- 
cheon, one can see daily the fifteen or sixteen year old boys, passing 
through the aisles collecting the trays in an orderly, courteous manner 
with never a question of the girls sharing in this arduous work, and 
never a giggle nor nonsensical remark as the boys perform this volun- 
tary task. 

In one of our poor districts, poor as regards money, but rich in 
school spirit and loyalty to ideals, the pupils, for various reasons, 



1914I School Lunches 439 

brought their luncheon to school. The girls ate their cold meal in a 
class room, but the boys in a miserable basement. Upon the installa- 
tion of equipment to provide hot cocoa to supplement the cold food, 
permission was granted the boys to share the class room, and 
this privilege the boys never lost. In a few months all the "news- 
paper wrapped" lunches had disappeared, and in their places paraffin 
paper and wrapping paper containing appetising lunches. The 
spirit of interest and cooperation between principal, teachers, pupils 
and parents was wonderful. At the end of the first year when 
the teacher in charge, herself a gentle woman, proposed a birthday 
party, every child responded with enthusiasm to the suggestion, and 
boys and girls alike vied with each other in anticipation and effort 
to make it a gala day; they begged that the members of the com- 
mission be invited to share in their party. No brighter, more genial, 
more truly illuminating scene can be imagined than that of those happy 
faces, when the birthday cake with its one candle was cut and shared 
by guests and children. There can be no doubt that more than a 
penny's worth had passed into their hearts. 

In another East Side school where love and generosity reign supreme, 
the serving of soup or cocoa is presided over by the principal herself. 
The lunch room is called the "cooperative cafeteria," for everyone 
delights to help. 

We find in those schools where the proper, warm lunch is presided 
over by a woman of force, ideality and love for her work, children 
running home at the day's end, happy and cheerful, showing many 
little acts of kindness for each other, not so commonly seen in schools 
where this opportunity for personal teaching has not been offered. 



NATIONAL CONSERVATION AND NUTRITION DURING 
CHILDHOOD 

Margaret McMillan 

"Thanks be to God we eat plentifully, and be not gone crokyed 
and hungry as others are!" Old Chancellor of the Exchequer. 

It has often been noted that great reforms are nearly always 
brought about by very small and weak creatures. The little child 
under five years of age has somehow managed to show that the methods 
of schools for much older children are mostly wrong. The defective 
or backward have forced the study of brain function and physio- 



440 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

logical method for the normal. It is now the turn of the poor little 
starveling to enter the arena, and it looks as if it were going to be the 
mover in the greatest reforms of all. 

Dr. Burney, in the last Report of the Deptford Health Center says 
that 90 per cent of all children are very well born, but only ten per cent 
are at all well bred, or rather, well fed. And if the helpless multitude 
of little creatures could speak and knew what to say there is no doubt 
that they would cry out in chorus, "Please give us real milk, mother's 
milk, for nine months if possible, and then go on giving us plenty of 
good milk fat for years." Alas! the good milk is yet far to seek in 
many parts of even the great capitals of the world. Thousands of 
London babies are fed on skimmed milk. Not only rickets, adenoids 
and anaemia, but also backwardness and every kind of mental short- 
coming are associated with this "skimmed," lean, starchy, and faulty 
diet. 

After years of talk, and the appointment of ministers and oflScials 
at high salaries, leaders in all the papers say we get a milk bill that does 
not provide milk. It provides inspection, but no one can live on in- 
spection, except, perhaps the inspector. The inspector regulates, 
prohibits, and often, it may be, keeps poison out of the home. The 
business of providing good milk, and bringing that good, pure milk 
into every home where there is a child or children is not the work of 
the inspector. Even the latest milk bill excludes the problem of 
supply. The rich and well-to-do can have good milk; their milk- 
supply can be made safer; every kind of precaution is taken. Yes, 
but the birth rate is falling in Mayfair. It is not falling in Shoreditch 
or Deptford where guaranteed milk will not come. In legislation 
one has to think of the children of mean streets, because there are the 
roots of the nation. For good or ill these are to carry on the life of 
the race, and everything depends therefore on good milk getting into 
the Deptford or Shoreditch home. It seems reasonable to hope that 
the great county councils and city councils who engage in so many 
business enterprises and who supply milk already to hospitals, infirm- 
aries and workhouses should at last start farms and dairies outside of 
the cities for supplying milk to the children of the people. In any 
case the problems of education can not be solved till the milk question 
is settled. 

Millions are diagnosed as naturally dull, unfit for secondary educa- 
tion. But why should we jiunp to such a conclusion? It would be 
better to try the effect of good feeding in early childhood. 



1 914] School Lunches 441 

To come now to the child of school age. During the past year 
two meals were given daily to over forty children in a very poor 
district of London. These were all anaemic cases, unfit to attend the 
ordinary schools, and excluded by the doctors of the Health Center. 
They slept in an open shed throughout the winter and lived entirely 
out of doors. Breakfast consisted of fine Highland oatmeal porridge 
with milk. (Every child had a pint of milk daily.) For supper 
there was boiled pudding, rich in fats with sweet syrup, or vege- 
table stews with hard proteid biscuits, milk and sometimes hard fruit 
such as apples. 

During the months of October and March the boys put on weight 
rapidly. The average increase was 6 ounces per week. Formerly, 
at home, they were probably gaining i ounce per week. A few boys 
remained stationary. One, who made a notable cure from chorea 
gained nothing in weight. During the summer months the increase 
was less. The boys gained on an average of 4 to 5 ounces per week. 

The girl campers did not stay to supper. They merely slept out 
and had an oatmeal and milk breakfast at their own camp. Within 
two months f per cent of all the girls gained substantially in weight. 
Two girls gained over 3^ pounds in a month. One child gained 2J 
pounds in three weeks. Another gained i pound in three weeks. 
Three out of seventeen lost weight — one very slightly. As a rule, 
there was in the case of boys and girls a great increase in weight dur- 
ing the first week after entrance, as usually happens in all such experi- 
ments. In the Christmas holidays, at home, the boys lost weight 
rapidly — the average loss being 8 ounces per week. 

The children were greatly improved in appearance. Formerly 
sallow and pale, they now became blooming, fair-skinned, rosy-cheeked 
and bright-eyed. The tonic effect of pure air, by day and by night, 
was doubtless one great cause of the change but the breakfast also 
had a great effect. 

One object in allowing the home to provide the dinner is that in 
this way the parents may be drawn in to take part in the experiment. 

The ideal dining hall should be outside, or rather in the pavilion, or 
open building of a camp-school. It is impossible to make the sur- 
roundings too bright and too lovely. The shed walls should be dis- 
tempered in light color, and the floor polished and dustless. The 
smaller tables, with tiny chairs should be put in the middle, and here 
a monitor should sit. The table should be covered with a snowy 
cloth, and gay with flowers. Every day children should be appointed 



442 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

to arrange the flowers, to keep the dishes and dining utensils bright 
and to arranpe the pa\dlion for dinner. Paper table napkins should 
be used, and the standard of cleanliness kept high. Every child will 
take a pride in the cleanliness of his hair, nails, hands, clothes, etc., if 
encouraged to do so by example, and by having the things he needs 
for washing. 

The supper or meal hour should be for children the happiest of the 
day. Joy helps digestion. And yet it takes a good deal of time 
and thought to prepare children of the poorest class for this new hap- 
piness. They are used to bolting food, and have no joy at all in 
eating but the satisfaction of stilling hunger. We have tried at 
Deptford to have guests to supper at least once every week, usually 
on Friday. To that day the children now look forward. Some 
of them sit at the guests' table which is a great privilege. They 
talk a little at times and they listen to conversation, which is a new 
and glad experience for them. Sometimes they will fix their eyes 
wonderingly on the stranger who comes from far off lands. The 
children at the other table talk freely though no shouting is allowed, 
and sometimes, if something very interesting or amusing is said at 
the guest's table they are called on to share it. All troubles and 
hardships and failures of the day are forgotten. 

This eating with the children and making every meal a festival of 
joy and human fellowship must follow the mere selection of foods, 
else were the enterprise not worthy of a true democracy. It is the 
thing that is missed at all mere charitable functions, and it degrades 
these to the level of mere foddering. At the public dining table, 
spread by the public spirited, a new order of civilization may be 
foimded. 

SCHOOL LUNCH PROGRESS IN NEW YORK 
Ira S. Wile, M.D. 

The New York School Limch Committee, in cooperation with the 
Bureau of Welfare of School Children of the Association for Im- 
proving the Condition of the Poor, has maintained a service available 
to 24,087 children in 17 public schools with a minimum registration 
number of 123 and a maximum of 2,352, all of them situated in the 
districts in which the need for such a service is pressing. 

In addition to this noon warm lunch ser\ice, the Committee has 



1 914] School Lunches 443 

operated a special 3-cent warm noon lunch of milk and crackers at 
10 a.m. for anaemic, ungraded and crippled classes. 

The lunch service is operated by virtue of the permission granted 
to the Committee by the Board of Education. Through its various 
committees the Board of Education has cooperated in a most en- 
couraging manner. 

Too much cannot be said of the valuable aid rendered by the prin- 
cipals in the schools where the lunches are served. It is only by dint 
of their personal sacrifice and tireless devotion to the cause repre- 
sented by the Committee that the service has been enabled to take 
such advanced steps during the past year. The teachers also have 
given much of their time to assisting in the maintenance of order by 
children, over which we have no control. 

In each central kitchen a manager is in charge, responsible to the 
supervisor. She is engaged usually for five hours a day, the hours 
being from 9.00 a.m. to 2.00 p.m. or from 10.00 a.m. to 3 p.m. Her 
function is to collect the pennies during the noon hour, make what- 
ever cash emergency expenditures may be necessary, order and store 
surplus food suppUes, make periodic statements of the condition of 
the store-house, submit weighed monthly inventories, be responsible 
for the cleanliness of the kitchen and the help. 

All the food for the 1 7 schools is prepared in 5 such central kitchens, 
with 1 1 associate managers in command, whence the food is distributed 
to the 12 associated schools. In each associate school there is an 
associate manager who is immediately responsible to the central 
kitchen manager for the collection of pennies and the orderly opera- 
tion of the lunch service. 

Through the Food Bureau of the Association we have been enabled 
to inspect various establishments from which we secure food at a sav- 
ing of 25 per cent, and are assured that the supply is pure and free 
from harmful substances. 

The Committee has estabUshed a system of accounting whereby 
it is enabled to keep track of the cost of each process in the operation 
of providing lunches, without laborious examination of the books. 

All the menus are prepared by the supervisor. Foods are chosen 
with special regard to the nutrition contained in them. The variety of 
foods which we are enabled to offer at one penny a portion is impressive. 



444 



The Journal of Home Economics 



[December 



A compilation follows: 

Soups 

cream of tomato 

tripe 

macaroni 

vegetable 

Scotch broth 

split pea 

clam chowder 

rice 

potato 

potato and barley 

cabbage 

lima beans and barley 

rice and lentils 

peas with noodles 

pea beans with rice 

rice with milk 

obergritz with potatoes 

noodles with milk 

macaroni and tomato 

peas and rice 

leniil 

beans and pasta 

menestra 

rice and tomato 

peas and pasta 
Salads 

potato 

tomato 

cabbage 

lentil 



Sandwiches 

jam 

egg and onion 

lettuce 

meat and bologna 

pot cheese 

bologna 

American cheese 

butter 

radish 
Other dishes 

com meal pudding 

bread fritters 

rice pudding 

chocolate pudding 

bread pudding 

apples 

apples on stick 

apple sauce 

baked apples 

apple pie 

prunes 

sliced bananas with milk 

grapes 

cocoa 

crackers of all kinds 

jelly cake 

vanilla cake 

sweet chocolate squares 

ice cream 



The problem of transporting the food from the central kitchen to 
the associated schools is a vexing one, but we hope during the next 
term to install an automobile delivery system which will deliver the 
food to the schools promptly and with despatch. 

At 11.45 in each school a squad of picked pupils set up the tables 
and prepare to serve the children. The children come from their 
class rooms, form lines, and as they pass a given point take up a tray, 
a spoon, and whatever other utensils are necessary. The inflexible 
nile has been to have each child purchase a half-pint bowl of soup 
with the first penny, after which there may be purchased any of the 
items which appear on the table for that day. After receiving the 
soup the child passes along the table on which the other items of food 



1 9 14] School Lunches 445 

are placed. Behind these tables the picked pupils, in white gloves, 
aprons and caps, hand to the children the food which they wish to 
purchase. At the end of the line the associate manager stands to 
receive as many pennies as there are items of food on the tray. 

We have taken every possible precaution to minimize the handling 
of the food by the naked hand. We feel that this is imperative, 
not alone as it affects the child to whom the food is delivered, but also 
as it teaches the child the sanitary handling of food in the home. 

In order to obviate any possibility of disease transmission in the 
preparation and handling of food, the Committee asked the Depart- 
ment of Health to make a thorough medical examination of its em- 
ployees to ascertain whether they were free from disease and the pos- 
sibility of being disease carriers. Each employee submitted to a 
stripped examination, throat cultures also being taken for diphtheria 
bacilli and blood tests being made for typhoid. As an added precau- 
tion, facilities for free vaccination against smallpox were offered to 
each employee who had not been vaccinated within the past three 
years. This is the first movement of its kind in school lunches taken 
in this country or abroad, and it is a distinct forward step in preventing 
school epidemics through food contamination. 

The administrative officers have delivered a niunber of public ad- 
dresses on school lunches, and have represented the Committee at 
numerous conferences. The most important are those delivered 
in the nature of little informal chats with mothers at parents' meetings. 

The appeal which school lunches have made has been manifested in 
more than one instance by mothers who have come to our kitchens 
to inquire how to prepare the foods which their children have eaten 
in school, and this help our employees are always willing to render. 

During the summer our supervisor was at work, in cooperation 
with the Cornell Laboratories, upon the standardization of recipes in 
order to insure uniformity of food value in the portions served. This 
is one of the most important steps, in so far as it will enable us to 
determine in terms of caloric value the benefits which a child might 
reasonably expect to receive from the consumption of our foods. 

There is nothing constant about the number of children who pur- 
chase food. Rain invariably increases the attendance while on a 
beautiful day the attendance is perceptibly reduced. The average 
daily attendance at our tables in 17 schools during the current year 
has been 3,337, compared with 1,721 in 9 schools last year. 

The splendid ground-work laid by the school lunch movement in 



446 



The Journal of Home Economics 



[December 



past years in New York City is commencing to show its fruits through 
an increasing recognition on the part of the children that the lunch 
room provides better food than the street vendor. This is shown 
by the increased receipts this term in the schools operated the year 
previous. 



NUMBER OF 

DAYS OP LUNCH 

SERVICE 



AVERAGE 

RECEIPTS PER 

DAY PER SCHOOL 



I9I3-I4 

I9I2-I3 

Increase, 1913-14 



$7369.07 
6011.37 



1321 
1261 



$5-58 
4-77 



$1357-70 



60 



.81 



A careful analysis of the costs has justified our experiment in the 
central kitchen field. A comparison of the costs this and last term 
in the schools operating during those periods shows a net saving of 
$.0019 per portion on labor costs alone. 

Through enlarging the field of work and concentrating the prepa- 
ration and administration we have been enabled to operate 17 schools, 
serving 1,249,489 portions, at a net deficit of $4624.52 or $303.58 
more than it cost to operate 9 schools the previous year. 

Our aim has been to provide for school children who are unable 
for any reason to procure a warm, nourishing meal at home, a hot 
lunch at the lowest possible cost. Inasmuch as there are numbers 
of children who are suffering from malnutrition, which impairs 
their future mental and physical growth, it is our purpose to 
demonstrate to the city authorities the social, economic and educa- 
tional value of a school lunch scheme. There is need for a wider 
extension of this work than it is possible for our Committee to enter 
upon in the immediate future. It has been our aim to show to the 
school authorities that this is their fimction; that it is being per- 
formed by private agencies merely to approach, at an earlier date 
than is otherwise possible, the transfer of this work to the Board of 
Education as an integral part of its duties. 

It is proposed to organize one additional central kitchen in the 
crowded lower East Side where 6 schools might be served, with a total 
registration of 11,464 children. If approved by the Committee, the 
lunch service will be available to a total of 44,833 school children. 

In order to engage upon this further "widening of the work of the 
Committee, we are asking the Board of Education to include in its 



1914I Housework, English and Immigrants 447 

budgetary request for 191 5 an item of $6339.39 ^o repair and equip 
schools for our existing and proposed services. We have the assur- 
ance already of the Committee on Care of Buildings that this sum of 
money will be included in its budget. 



HOUSEWORK, ENGLISH AND IMMIGRANTS 

Emily Greene Balch 

Member of the Late Massachusetts Commission on Immigration 

Why not apply the vocational school idea to training immigrant girls for house- 
work? Such a plan, if it could be carried out, might help in the Americanization 
of the next generation of foreign families. They need a better knowledge of the 
customs and habits as well as the languages of their adopted country. Miss Balch 
makes some interesting suggestions along these lines. — Editor. 

This brief paper is merely to discuss one of those experiments, more 
or less costly in time and money, that occur to one as very interesting — 
for some one else to try. 

The problem is, on the one hand, the newly arrived immigrant girl, 
knowing no English and sometimes used more to field work than to 
kitchen work and quite ignorant of plumbing and urban customs, 
and, on the other hand, the American household with all its com- 
plexities and perplexities. 

When, as may happen, the young foreigner falls into the hands of 
a good housewife who does most of her own work and who is kindly 
and also skillful in teaching the language and the ways of the new 
country, this is the simplest solution of the question and the best, 
except for the strain on the housekeeper and the lack of companions 
of her own age to learn with, of the one taught. It must be remem- 
bered, too, that to teach one's own language is an extremely difficult 
art— as all know who have suffered at the hands of unskillful foreign 
teachers. The more unconsciously the language is spoken, the greater 
the difficulty of giving helpful explanations and general directions. 
Neither is it easy to teach about household matters sensibly, inter- 
estingly and effectively. The capacity to do both things in one is 
none too easily secured. 

But too often the newcomer who goes into housework finds the 
roughest places and the hardest usage, learning poor English, unde- 
sirable methods and sometimes bad morals. She needs to be taught 
English and helped to a proper situation. 



448 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

Might not a half time system be worked out here, as it has been in 
some types of trade training? Suppose that either the morning or 
afternoon were devoted to learning English and housework, the one 
through the other, in a school under good teachers and according 
to the best methods, and that the other part of the day were spent 
in practising what had been learned, in a paid job of scrubbing, dust- 
ing, washing or preparing vegetables for dinner in a restaurant or 
helping take care of children in a day nursery? 

Alternate days of work and teaching might be found more con- 
venient or even alternate weeks. Again it might be practicable to 
pair the girls, as is often done in vocational training divided between 
school and work-shop. In Fitchburg, Massachusetts, for example, 
one boy is at school while the other is working in the machine shop 
from Monday to the end of the week; Saturday afternoon the boy 
who has been in the shop explains the job, in which he is engaged, 
to the other so that he can continue it without interruption and the 
next Monday they exchange places. 

A better modification might, perhaps, be evening schools, where, 
as has been suggested, English should be taught through the medium 
of household activities, from the care of a stove to the care of a baby, 
from marketing to answering the telephone. This would leave the 
day free for wage earning, though care would have to be taken not to 
make the regime too severe for the health and spirits of the girl. 

Of course we already have evening schools for training in house- 
hold arts, though not so many nor so adequate as we need. Evening 
classes especially designed for teaching English to foreign women and 
girls, we also have though, again, not so many nor so good as we 
should like. And there are, of course, the various training courses 
for domestic service, carried on by Young Women's Christian Associa- 
tions and other groups. 

The question raised here is whether there is not a place for a modifi- 
cation of these, such as has been suggested. Perhaps some girls who, 
on arrival, would be glad to tr>' housework but who are not then avail- 
able for the kind of place which alone could hold them, might find an 
opportimity in this way. Perhaps some classes of irrunigrants, for 
instance Jewish and Italian girls, who now do not consider housework 
an eligible employment would do so if they could enter it through 
the school room and could go to places where their self-respect would 
be guarded and where the vocational school would keep in touch with 
their progress and treatment. 



1914I Kanahoah, the House of Friends 449 

The difficulties are obvious. Would there be girls who would care 
to begin in this way, and if there are, how find them? Would there 
be employers who would find it worth while to use this kind of help? 

Such an experiment as is here discussed could be worked out on a 
small scale by one competent and friendly woman with small expense 
of anything save time and trouble, or it could be tried out by some 
committee or larger organization, or by the school authorities. 

The common impression that immigrants arrive wholly at loose 
ends, without any affiUations whatever, is a mistaken one. The vast 
majority come to relatives or friends and the way to reach newcomers 
is less on the dock or at the depot or in the home for immigrants than 
through "the colony" and those of the group already in town. 

Therefore if a committee is formed either to carry on such an ex- 
periment or to act in an auxiliary or advisory capacity to it, it would 
generally be highly desirable to get a priest or rabbi or other trusted 
representative from each of the nationalities concerned to serve on 
the board. Their knowledge of the situation will be needed, they 
alone can secure the kind of publicity essential to success, and their 
presence will give standing to the enterprise among their own people 
and will induce confidence. 

It is much to be desired that anyone knowing of successful attempts 
in this field should report them, for the benefit of others interested, 
to this Journal. 

KANAHOAH. THE HOUSE OF FRIENDS^ 

Mabel Ward 
Mississippi State College for Women, Columbus, Miss. 

The highly specialized equipment used in our fine public schools 
leaves so little to the imagination and is so unlike that used in any 
cooking process in the student's own home, that there is a tendency 
to regard the lessons as something belonging entirely to the school, 
and having no more connection with the home life than algebra or 
Latin. Unless something is done to give the home lessons in an 
environment or with an equipment somewhat similar to that in her 
own home, the average young student is mentally incapable of making 
the application of the lesson as it should be made. 

' See Frontispiece. 



45° The Journal of Home Economics [December 

For this reason we are advising the Agricultural High Schools and 
other schools in the South to offer their Home Economics work in 
small, separate cottages. These cottages, simply planned and built 
of the material most in use in that particular locality, offer a proper 
setting for the home making courses and an arrangement more 
easily imitated than a set room in a large school house. These cot- 
tages have a school kitchen where the class work is given and some 
have a small kitchen fitted up as a home kitchen should be; a dining 
room; a sewing room; a sitting room which is often combined with 
the dining room or sewing room; a small bed room and bath. The 
furnishing and care of this house is part of the regular class instruc- 
tion, and, although it is of course necessary to teach both cooking 
and sewing in a special class room, the student may easily find sug- 
gestions in this house for improvement in her own home. 

With this end in view, that is, to make our Home Economics courses 
more vital and more easily applied in the home of the students, our 
practice home was planned and realized. 

As we had two large cooking laboratories with dining room, reading 
room and other rooms we decided to make this house a real home 
where a certain number of students could live for a certain length of 
time; do all the work of the house and share all its comforts. 

It was decided from the first that in building the house the students 
themselves should do all the work of construction possible for girls 
to do. After a consultation of the cooperating departments of 
Applied Design and Home Economics, it was decided that an eleven- 
room house accommodating ten girls and an instructor should be 
built. This was to be of brick veneer and was planned to harmonize 
with the prevailing architecture on the campus. 

The problem of drawing plans for this house was submitted to the 
home art classes in the fall of 191 2 and after careful thought and 
study, each student submitted her plan of the house proposed. The 
plan best suited to our needs was then selected and carefully revised 
so that every room in the house should have cross ventilation; that 
there should be no dark corners; that all the bedrooms should have 
closets; and that all the rooms should obtain the sunlight at some time 
during the day. 

The plan was given to a young builder employed by the college 
who undertook to put it up with Our cooperation. Owing to our 
ideal of the work and to a scarcity of funds, we did not attempt to 
put the work into the hands of a regular architect or contractor. 



1Q14] Kanahoah, the House of Friends 451 

During the entire construction the students were constantly present 
and consultations in regard to the size of pillars, porches and other 
details of the house were held. The interior of the house was com- 
pleted entirely under the supervision of the Art and Home Economics 
Departments, assisted by the president. 

Our Practice House which we called Kanahoah or the House of 
Friends, stood complete at the beginning of the session of 1913-14 
but with all interior woodwork and walls to be finished and with the 
furniture to be selected. This decoration of the House became the 
problem of the senior class in Home Economics. The Home Eco- 
nomics work at the Mississippi College is now given as an elective dur- 
ing the junior and senior years with certain pre-requisities required 
before beginning the junior year. The junior classes have work in 
elementary food preparation, household chemistry and home art in 
connection with certain literary branches. 

The senior students have advanced food preparation, elective 
courses in household management, home decoration and dietetics. 
The house belongs to the senior class and it became their problem 
to make the interior finishes in application of their courses in home 
decoration. This same class was to Uve in the house later on and 
put into practical use the cooking and dietetics courses. 

In preparation for the decoration of the house the methods of 
finishing woods, floors and walls was made the subject of class lessons. 
These lessons were then applied in the house during laboratory hours. 
The interior woodwork was finished in as many different ways as was 
consistent with a harmonious whole. We have some rooms finished 
in oil stain, some in alcohol and some in water stain. All the stains, 
with the exception of the alcohol stain, were made by the instructor, 
and students and colors were blended to suit their taste. During 
application, the suitability of the different finishes to pine was dis- 
cussed and it was decided that the best results were obtained from 
the oil stain. Some of the bed rooms, the bath rooms and dining 
room are done in white enamel. Oil stain is used on all the floors 
and these are finished with various types of varnish and then waxed. 
On all the other stained wood work a flat wood finish was applied. 
A summary of this work was made at the end of the year and the 
wearing quality and ease of cleaning of the different finishes discussed 
by girls who had the experience of living in the house. It was inter- 
esting to see how their ideas had changed after they were obliged to 
dean the woods for some time. 



452 The Journal oj Home Economics [December 

The walls offered a big problem and their treatment was not wholly 
a success, owing to the lime in the plaster. These were painted with 
flat tone washable paint and different colors were used with reference 
to the location of the room. For instance, the dining room which 
has a part northern exposure is treated in golden yellow with white 
woodwork and is generally considered to be the most attractive room 
in the house. 

After the interior of the house was complete the furnishing was 
attempted. For the bed rooms, high iron twin beds were pro\dded 
and a very neat little Princess dresser in oak, with straight chair 
and rocker to match, were ordered from the factory in an unfinished 
state. These were then stained and waxed or enameled to match 
the different rooms, the oak, of course, offering a different problem 
from the pine woodwork. The living room, dining room and kitchen 
furniture was ordered from catalogs, the students helping to make 
the selections and keeping a careful account of cost and styles. The 
hangings were then selected, the cost estimated and the work of 
hemming and finishing done by the students. 

During the session of 1914-1915, it is intended that every senior 
electing the Home Economics course, shall live in the Practice House 
for six weeks, and receive one unit of college credit for the work done 
during this time. 

The work of the house is divided into ten duties and these duties 
with their exact requirements are posted on the wall in the pantry 
so that every girl may know exactly what is required of her. The 
planning of meals, ordering, cooking and serving of food, keeping 
accounts, cleaning and managing the house are all done by the girls 
with the advise of the instructors. 

About one-half of the groceries are bought from the college dormi- 
tory and one-half from towTi markets in as large quantities as possible 
for use. When the groceries come to the kitchen the cook looks over 
them and puts her 0. K. on the order before it is filed. 

The housekeeper keeps strict account in the card catalog, and 
at the end of the month the cards are all compared with the grocers* 
checks and bill. If correct, they are then handed to the college 
secretary for settlement. In this way the students get the actual 
practice in buying but do not handle any of the funds. The per capita 
allowance of $2 a week has never been fully spent, as $1.80 has been 
the largest amount so far. 

The college Horticulture Department has cooperated with us, and 



1914] Kanahoah, the House of Friends 453 

last year furnished us with celery, lettuce, parsley and other green 
vegetables throughout the winter. 

This year one of our students who belongs to the girls' canning 
club of the State is putting up large quantities of tomatoes, peas, 
beans, corn and fruit. We have arranged to buy this from her at the 
regular wholesale price. 

Once during each housekeeper's term of office the dinner is served 
without a maid. On this day the housekeeper comes in and care- 
fully plans all the courses, arranges the dishes on the rolling tea table 
which she places at her left. The maid and cook take their places 
with the family and the lady of the house rises to remove the soiled 
plates after each course. 

The kitchen is well arranged so that the dishes are cleaned and 
stacked, washed, dried and put away within a small walking circuit. 

The dish closet opens from the back into the pantry and from the 
front into the dining room so that the dishes are put away and removed 
very easily. 

A small gas stove is used in preparing the breakfast and lunch, but 
a coal range is always used for the dinner so that the students may 
learn the management and regulation of a range. It is planned next 
year to put in a good, small dish washer and in this way lighten the 
labor of the cook and maid. 

A small laundry and dairy were built during the present session 
and will be equipped during the coming year. It is planned to put 
in modern labor sa\dng devises such as any farmer or housewife will 
find it possible to afford. Lessons in laundry and care of milk and 
butter will be given in connection with the work in the Practice House. 

As our name Kanahoah indicates we have made every effort to 
give this house the atmosphere of home. The big living room always 
has a cheerful fire on winter days; we have a victrola and a piano; 
friends are always welcome and on Sunday afternoons we are at 
home and tea is served. The student who is then lady of the house 
acts as hostess on all these occasions and the living room maid acts 
as butler to receive the guests and ser\'e any thing needed. 

The students are most enthusiastic over their life here and look 
forward most eagerly to the time for their residence in Kanahoah. 
In spite of the fact that all lessons continue and that their work is 
almost doubled, there is never any complaint. The good that it will 
do in the future can scarcely be estimated. A simple and artistic 
house; plain softly tinted walls; softly finished woods ; attractive and 



454 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

artistic rugs, hangings and furniture; and flowers which our climate 
always allows, cannot fail to have their effect upon those who enjoy 
them daily. The fact that the girls helped to do this house, that it 
is partly the work of their own hands, and that it all costs so little, 
renders it possible for everyone to someday embody this ideal of 
simpUcity and beauty in her own home. 

This they all expect to do, as is evidenced sometimes by spoken 
word, sometimes by their faces, and always in their thoughts they 
plan to some day see the fulfillment in their own homes, of all that 
they found attractive at Kanahoah. 



WHAT FEDERAL MEAT INSPECTION HAS DONE FOR 
THE COUNTRY 

B. T. Galloway 

Director of the New York State College of Agriculture at Cornell University 

The fundamental object of federal meat inspection is to protect 
the people against the use of diseased or unwholesome meat. Not- 
withstanding the far-reaching nature of the federal law, there are a 
great many misconceptions as to its application. The Federal Gov- 
ernment can take account only of the meat that enters into interstate 
commerce. It cannot control the meat originating within a State and 
sold within the borders of that State. This is a fundamental weak- 
ness that must be corrected either through uniform state laws or 
through cooperation between the federal authorities and the state 
authorities. A great deal of meat that is wholly unfit for food is sold 
within the State simply because the State cannot or will not enforce 
the law. Public conscience, however, is being aroused, and reforms 
are taking place as rapidly as the people will support them . Much har m 
has been and is being done to the cause of wholesome meat and pure 
foods by the almost fanatical demands of a comparatively few persons 
who know or care Httle about the real situation so long as they can 
place themselves in the center of the limelight. True reform can 
come only as a result of patient work, and in strict conformity with 
scientific and economic truth. 

During the past eight years, since the food inspection law has been 
in active operation, something over three hundred and seventy-eight 
million animals have been inspected. During that time one and 



1914] Federal Meat Inspection 455 

one-half million whole carcasses have been condemned. There have 
also been condemned nearly five and one-half million parts of car- 
casses, and in addition one hundred and eighty million pounds of meat 
and meat food products have been condemned on reinspection. 
This enormous quantity of meat unfit for food was thus removed 
from consiunption. It is safe to say that without inspection most 
of it would have been sold and eaten. 

I. Some of the dangers from which inspection affords protection 
are as follows: 

(c) Diseases transmissible from animals to man, or as to which 
there is reason for apprehension that they may possibly be so trans- 
mitted, such as anthrax, tuberculosis and cancer. Anthrax is highly 
dangerous and is easily transmitted to man. Tuberculosis is not so 
readily contracted from meat as from milk, but is very prevalent and 
is a source of some danger. Less is known about cancer, but there is 
some reason to suspect that it may be contracted from eating cancerous 
meat. 

{b) Parasites transmissible from animals to man, such as tape- 
worms and trichinae. Even with careful inspection it is impossible 
to afford absolute protection against trichinae in uncooked pork, 
therefore no special inspection is made for these parasites and thorough 
cooking is recommended as the most effective precaution. But in 
the case of tapeworms the inspection as now made, in the light of re- 
cently acquired knowledge, is believed to be an adequate safeguard. 

(c) Diseases, parasites and conditions which, while not directly 
transmissible to man, are likely to cause more or less serious illness 
in the nature of ptomaine or toxic poisoning, digestive disturbances, 
dysentery, et cetera. In this class are the septicemias and other con- 
ditions. 

{d) Effects similar to the foregoing that may also be brought 
about by contamination of products as a result of insanitary con- 
ditions and methods of preparation, which are not permitted under 
the inspection system. In this class are the germs of filth and decom- 
position, which generate toxins. 

{e) Preservatives, dyes, et cetera. Some preservatives may be 
directly injurious to health, while some enable an unscrupulous dealer 
to conceal dangerous conditions in meat, as, for instance, to give 
an appearance of soundness to meat that has partly decomposed 
and is impregnated with toxins. All harmful chemicals are strictly 
excluded under inspection. 



456 The Journal oj Home Economics [December 

The inspection performs a service of special importance in pro- 
tecting the consumer against dangers that he cannot detect for him- 
self. Some of the grosser diseased conditions would be apparent to 
the purchaser of meat in the piece, while other dangerous conditions 
would never be noticed except by an expert. But when meat is finely 
cut up, as in sausage, it is a matter of impossibility for the ordinary 
purchaser to detect disease or danger. It is therefore highly impor- 
tant that there should be an efficient inspection of all ingredients enter- 
ing into the composition of sausage, before they are chopped up; 
and this safeguard is provided by the federal meat inspection. 

The meat inspection also has a certain esthetic value in that it 
condemns meat that is merely repulsive or repugnant to the senses 
without being actually dangerous. 

II. The federal meat inspection helps to conserve the country's 
meat supply. The public interest demands, on the one hand, that 
no unwholesome meat shall be passed for food, and on the other hand 
that no safe and wholesome food shall be wasted. While the inspectors 
rigidly condemn everything that is bad, and their instructions are to 
give the consumer the benefit of every doubt, careful discrimination 
is used so as to avoid ruthless waste of good meat. For example, a 
carcass affected with generaUzed tuberculosis is entirely condemned, 
but in certain sUght cases of tuberculosis the meat is passed after the 
affected glands or organs are cut away and condemned. In these 
slight cases the wholesomeness of the meat is in no wise impaired. 
Under the new regulations provision has been made for utilizing 
a class of meat that has heretofore been rendered into lard and 
tallow. 

III. Other economic results of the meat inspection are the preven- 
tion of fraud in labeling, and the tracing and eradication of diseases 
and parasites. The inspection gives no indication of market grades, 
but it does prevent miscellaneous trimmings from masquerading as 
"potted ham," and domestic goods from being given a label indicating 
that they are imported. With the aid of the inspection service it 
is possible to trace the origin of animals found affected with contagious 
diseases or with parasites, so that measures may be taken for eradicat- 
ing the disease or parasites from localities or farms. 

IV. The meat inspection has a certain commercial value; indeed, 
in the beginning the object was commercial rather than sanitary. 
The inspection is necessary in order that our meats may be accepted 
by certain foreign countries. In years past a large volume of export 



1914] Influence of Glucose on Candy Syrups 457 

trade was made possible only by inspection. In recent years, how- 
ever, with the domestic meat shortage and the increased home demand, 
this export trade has declined. 

V. The science of meat inspection has been extended. New light 
has been thrown on certain animal diseases and parasites in their rela- 
tion to human health, so that the inspectors may know where to 
draw the line with safety. 

In general, the inspection has brought about great improvement in 
packing-house construction and methods. Defects and abuses have 
been remedied and abolished. 

THE INFLUENCE OF GLUCOSE ON THE COOKING 
TEMPERATURES OF CANDY SYRUPS^ 

Amy L. Daniels and Martha A. Troxell 

Department of Home Economics, University of Missouri 

The usual ways of determining when candies are sufficiently cooked 
are first, by testing the consistency of the mixture by cooling a few 
drops in cold water; second, by means of the thermometer, the tem- 
perature of the boiling Hquid indicating the degree of concentration. 

In looking over a series of recipes for caramels it was found that the 
cooking tests according to the cold water method of testing are appar- 
ently the same, namely, the formation of the hard ball in cold water, 
but the temperature tests for the different mixtures varied con- 
siderably, the range being from 116° to i32°C. For example, the 
ingredients used in one recipe are as follows: two tablespoonfuls of 
butter, one-half cup of milk, one-half cup of sugar, one cup of mo- 
lasses, four squares of chocolate. Directions are given for cooking this 
mixture to the "brittle" stage when tested in cold water. A table 
of cooking temperatures for candies in the book from which this recipe 
was taken does not state to what temperature sugar syrup should be 
cooked in order to be brittle; hard ball is given as i20°C., small crack 
as i32°C.; presumably brittle should be interpreted as somewhere 
between i2o°C. and i32°C. This mixture, however, when cooked 
to ii6°C. formed the typical caramel. Another recipe for caramels 
calls for two cups of brown sugar, one-half cup of milk, one-eighth 
cup of molasses, one-fourth pound of chocolate. This mixture is to 
be cooked to i23°C. Other mixtures are to be cooked to i2o°C.; 
and several were found which gave directions for cooking to ii6°C. 

' See also page 482. 



458 The Journal oj Home Economics [December 

The consistency of typical caramels is familiar to most of us. These 
candies should be firm enough to hold their shape at room tempera- 
ture and yet should be "chewy." This consistency, if we may draw 
conclusions from the examples cited, is e\adently attained by cooking 
the various mixtures to different temperatures, or else there is a vary- 
ing standard for these candies, a theorem which is untenable. 

A careful examination of the proportions of ingredients given in 
the different recipes suggests that there may be some relationship 
between these and the temperatures to which the mixtures should 
be cooked in order to produce the desired results. One recipe calls 
for much milk and butter in proportion to the amount of sugar, while 
others use more molasses, or glucose, or chocolate. In order to find 
out what factor or factors influence the temperatures to which these 
mixtures should be cooked the following investigation was under- 
taken. 

Two typical recipes for caramels were used. 

Caramel mixture I Caramel mixture II 

2 cups sugar i lb. brown sugar 
I cup glucose \ lb. chocolate 

3 cups cream \ cup mdlk 

\ cup butter 
\ cup molasses 
Cooktoii6°C. Cooktoi23°C. 

Caramel mixture II was cooked as directed to i23°C. The result 
was the typical caramel, firm but "chewy." Caramel mixture I 
cooked to i23°C. At this temperature the syrup was brittle when 
tested in cold water; the resulting candies were much too hard. When 
the mixture (Caramel I) was cooked to ii6°C., the temperature stated 
in the recipe, typical caramels were produced. The difference in these 
two recipes, it will be noted, consists, first, (Caramel I) in a larger pro- 
portion of glucose to sugar as well as in a larger proportion of liquid 
(milk); second, (Caramel II) in less glucose (molasses), and less 
milk, and the addition of chocolate. Caramels were made from 
recipe I by substituting water for milk, the temperature to which 
these were cooked being the same as in the former experiment. The 
flavor and appearance of these candies were somewhat different from 
those which were made with milk, but the consistency was the same. 
Caramels were made from recipe I to which six ounces of chocolate 
were added; these were cooked to the usual temperature, ii6°C. 



I9I4] 



Influence of Glucose on Candy Syrups 



459 



The resulting caramels were typical. Neither chocolate nor a large 
amount of milk had any influence on the cooking temperature of cara- 
mels. 

The large proportion of glucose, in caramel mixture I, suggested 
that this might be the cause of the lower cooking temperature; there- 
fore, candies were made from recipe I in which one-half the amount 
of glucose was used. These were cooked to the same temperature, 
namely, ii6°C. Others were made with no glucose, the proportion 
of sugar to cream being the same as in the previous case. Those in 
which less glucose was used were distinctly softer; those made with 
no glucose were too soft to hold their shape and lacked the character- 
istics of caramels. From these results we may conclude that when 
glucose is used in caramel mixtures a lower cooking temperature is 
necessary to produce the proper consistency. 

In order to test this point further a series of experiments were car- 
ried out to determine the temperatures of glucose syrups of different 
consistencies. A mixture of glucose and water was cooked to the tem- 
peratures given for sugar syrups; trials of the glucose syrup were 
made at these temperatures by means of cold water tests in order to 
compare them with the standard sugar syrups at these same temper- 
atures. Different proportions of glucose and sugar were similarly 
tested. The results are sumjnarized in the following table. 



Boiling Temperatures of Glucose and 


Sugar Syrups of Different Consistencies 


AMT. OF 
GLUCOSE 


AMT. OF 
SUGAR 


SOFT BALL 


HARDBALL 


CRACK 


HARD CRACK 


BARLEY 


CARAMEL 






temp. 'C. 


temp. 'C. 


ump. 'C. 


Ump. °C. 


temp. 'C. 


temp. 'C. 


I cup 




109 


114 


120 


122 


128 


^33 


I cup 


I cup 


III 


116 


122 


125 


138 


142 


I cup 


2 cup 


112 


118 


125 


13s 


141 


145-150 




2 cups 


113 


122 


132 


145 


149 


154 



It will be noted that a syrup made of glucose and water will form 
a hard ball when tested in cold water at ii4°C., whereas the hard 
ball stage of the sugar syrup is reached at i2 2°C. The "crack" in 
the glucose syrup is reached at i2o°C., while the sugar syrup does 
not crack when tested in cold water until the thermometer registers 
i32°C. Equally striking is the difference between the barley tem- 
peratures of the two syrups, one, glucose, forms barley at i28°C., 
the other, sugar, at i49°C. Glucose begins to caramelize at i33°C. 



460 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

while sugar caramelizes at i54°C. The trials made with mixtures of 
sugar and glucose were found to vary directly as the quantity of 
glucose used; syrups made with the larger proportion of glucose in 
each case gave the characteristic tests at the lower temperatures. 

The temperatures for the different consistencies will vary somewhat 
according to the standards of the indi\aduals testing. Yet the per- 
sonal equation cannot explain the wide variations shown in the 
table given above. No two people can differ in judgment to the 
extent of twenty degrees in determining when the caramel stage is 
reached, nor will the opinion of two people vary greatly as to the 
difference between the hard cracked stage of two syrups. Our table 
shows that glucose syrup reaches the hard crack stage at i2 2°C., while 
sugar syrup reaches this stage at i45°C. 

It is obvious from these results that we must revise our tempera- 
tures for candy cookery. The tables of temperatures as usually given 
are intended for candies in which cane sugar is the principal carbo- 
hydrate present. When glucose is used in significant quantity lower 
temperatures give the desired results. By means of the above table 
cooking temperatures for typical candies in which glucose is used can 
be easily determined. 

SCORE CARDS 

Inga M. K. Allison 

In the judging of culinary projects there is great diversity of opinion 
as to what constitutes an excellent loaf of bread, a glass of perfect 
jelly or a good cake, as the case may be. This is explained in the fact 
that we have set up so few definite standards of what to expect. Our 
likes and dislikes often affect ovir decision to the exclusion of judgment 
that should result from thoughtful consideration. 

The score cards to follow have been prepared as a tentative standard 
to vary from and as a means of calling attention to the essential points 
that go to make up quaUty. It should be understood that they are 
not presented as the only acceptable standard. Knowledge and indi- 
vidual theories may lead one to attach different values to the points 
mentioned. These score cards have been formulated by the Depart- 
ment of Home Economics at the Colorado State Agricultural College 
for use in the College classes and in judging at fairs. In each case 
the total score for perfection is 100 points. 



1914] 



Score Cards 



461 



Points 
IS 



40 
40 



Score card for bread 

Points 

General appearance 

Color 5 

Shape 5 

Size 5 

Flavor 

Crumb 

Texture 10 

Lightness 15 

Moisture 10 

Color 5 

Crust 5 

General appearance. In color the loaf should be a uniform golden 
brown; in shape, oblong; in size, about 9 by 4 by 4 inches. 

Flavor. Agreeable to taste, nutty, and with no suggestion of sour- 
ness. 

Crumb. Lightness — well raised, light in weight in proportion to 
size, of small even grain, absence of heavy streaks. Texture — tender 
in crumb, yet not crumbling when compressed. Moisture — slightly 
moist, yet rebounding when compressed. Greater weight is attached 
to flavor and crumb because of their importance in making up the 
perfect loaf. 

Crust. Tender, of medium thickness. 

In rolls it is not to be expected that crumb can have the same consid- 
eration that it does in bread. It is therefore given only twenty points. 
Since rolls are served imcut, more importance is attached to appear- 
ance, giving it twenty-five points. 

Score card for cakes 





SPONGE CAKE 


BUTTEB CAKE 


FBCIT CAKB 


General appearance 


Points 

15 

5 

5 
5 

30 

50 
15 

20 
10 

S 

5 


Points 

15 

40 
40 
10 

IS 
10 

5 

5 


Points 

15 


Color 


Size 




Shape 




Flavor 


40 


Crumb . ... 


40 


Texture 


10 


Lightness 


15 


Moisture 


10 


Color 


5 


Crust 


s 







462 The Jour Jial of Home Economics [December 

In the card for cake it is understood that cakes are not frosted. 
Sponge cake includes angel cake and yellow sponge cake — in both of 
which egg white, not baking power, is intended to be the leavening 
agent. The terms butter cake and fruit cake are generally understood. 

If cakes are iced or frosted 10 points are given to icing (texture 5, 
appearance, 5), and in the cake score card color and crust are omitted. 

General appearance. In color sponge cakes should be light brown; 
butter cakes golden brown; fruit cake dark brown; but all should be 
of uniform color. Sponge cakes should be thick, and roimd or oblong 
and should round up slightly on top. Fruit cakes should be level. 
No cake should be too thick to cut to advantage for serving. Cakes of 
medium size are most acceptable. 

Crumb. Texture — tender in grain, break easily and show no sign 
of doughiness. Lightness — to be graded as excellent, butter cakes 
must be hght in weight in proportion to ingredients used; the grain in 
a rich cake must be small, even and uniform. Sponge cake must be 
tender, loose in texture and velvety. Fruit cake necessarily cannot be 
light but, on the other hand, must not be almost all fruit. Moisture — 
slightly moist, yet so that it will rebound when pressed with the finger; 
it is expected that fruit cakes must be more moist than the other types 
of cakes scored. Color — uniform; fruit cakes should show a decided 
brown color. 

Crusi. The crust of the sponge cake should be rough and slightly 
sugary, of medium thickness; of butter cakes, tender, smooth and not 
over thick ; of fruit cake, rough and not very thick as is often the case. 

In appearance icing should be smooth and glossy; in texture, spongy 
and not brittle so as to cnmib when cut, nor so soft as to be sticky. 

Score card for pastry and pies 

Crust 

Points Points 

General appearance 15 

Color — degree and evenness of brown 5 

Thickness 10 



Flavor. . 
Texture . 



35 
5° 



Filling 
General appearance i r 



Finish . 



5 



Thickness of finish 10 

Flavor eo 

Consistency ,e 



19 14] Food Values of Diets in British Workhouses 463 

To be of satisfactory texture pastry should be friable or flaky, this 
depending upon whether it is plain or flaky pastry. It should be 
free from toughness and be well baked. 

FOOD VALUES OF DIETS IN BRITISH WORKHOUSES 
Mary G. McCormick 

Instructor, Department of Nutrition. Teachers College, New York City 

A recent English report* contains rules for the management of 
workhouses in all departments. Only the regulations for dietaries 
are here considered. The explicitness characteristic of the phrase- 
ology in all British laws and regulations is well illustrated. 

For the purposes of dietary administration, inmates are divided 
into four classes: adults (men and women), not infirm; infirm adults; 
children under the age of eight years; children above the age of eight 
years. 

Lists of menus for breakfast, supper and dinner are made for each 
class of inmates. About twenty different breakfast and supper menus, 
and thirty-nine different dinner menus are given. The regulations 
specify that supper must consist of foods different from those served 
for breakfast, and there must be a weekly rotation of meals. An 
inmate who is doing heavy manual labor shall, with the approval of the 
medical officer, receive an additional meal every day. 

The amount of each serving is expressed in ounces, and any inmate 
may demand that his allowance be weighed. Children are fed accord- 
ing to appetite and may have more or less than the prescribed ration. 
A stewed fruit is allowed once a week. 

The regulations offer no information, however, about the food 
value of the rations served, and the purpose of this article is to present 
the number of calories and the amounts of protein, calcium, phos- 
phorus and iron in the average day's food. As the amounts of food 
materials allowed for each recipe are specified in the report it is possi- 
ble to calculate these values with accuracy. In this calculation the 
food of only one class of inmates was considered — that of adult men, 
not infirm. The foods may appear to be meager, but calculation of 
their dietary values indicates that they are sufficient in variety and 

1 The First Report of the Departmental Committee appointed by the President 
of the Local Government Board with respect to the Poor Law Orders. Presented 
to both Houses of Parliament by Command of His Majesty. 1913, pp. 1-89. 



464 



The Journal of Home Economics 



[December 



quantity to offer the elements essential for nutrition, and to furnish 
energy enough to carry on moderately hard labor. 

Several menus for each meal were selected for study. The following 
tables show the food values of typical menus and the totals differ 
only slightly from those obtained from the entire study. 

Composition of food materials 



NAME OF FOOD 


ENERGY 


PROTEIN 


CaO 


P»Oj 


Fe 


Breakfast 

Bread 4 oz 


calories 

293.6 

679.2 

56.0 

42.2 


grams 

10.51 
27.36 

2.02 


grams 

0.04s 
0.221 

0.103 


grams 

0.45 
1.48 

0.13 


grams 
0.00170 


Porridge i^ pt 


f Sugar 




T-JMilk 


0.00014 




Total 


1071.0 

306.0 
644.4 


39 89 

31.8 
4-4 


0.369 

0.020 
0.238 


2.06 

0.619 
I -578 


0.00794 

0.00404 
0.00953 


Dinner 

Mutton boiled 4.5 oz 

Pease Pudding 12 oz 


Total 


9SO-4 

587.2 
162.0 


36.2 

21.04 
13.61 


0.258 

0.091 
0.732 


2.197 

0.91 
1.07 


001357 
0.00340 


Supper 

Bread 8 oz 


Butter Milk 






Total 


749.2 


34-65 


0.823 


1.98 


0.00340 




Total per day 

Extra meal for hard labor. . . 


2770.6 
478 


110.74 
22.8 


I -450 
0.513 


6.237 
1.07 


0.02491 
0.0017 


Total for hard labor .... 


3248.6 


133 • 54 


1.963 


7-307 


0.02661 



FOOD VALUE OF ASPARAGUS 

Recent analytical work carried on under the auspices of the Lancet, 
London, shows that approximately one-tenth of the raw asparagus 
shoot is solid matter and of this as much as 70 per cent is soluble 
in cold water and 80 per cent in boiling water, the constituents thus 
removed consisting of sugars, gums, proteids, and practically all the 
phosphoric acid salts. The sugar in asparagus amounts, on an 
average, to 3.6 per cent; the proteids to 3.8 per cent; the fiber to 



1914] Food Value of Asparagus 465 

I per cent; the fat to 0.5 per cent; and the mineral matter to 0.8 
per cent. 

The green variety contains much less fiber than the white, and the green also 
yields more soluble matter to boiling water and still more to cold water than the fat 
white stick yields. An important constituent of the tender shoot of asparagus is 
the basic body vitamin. This occurs in the growing tips of all vegetables, but 
particularly so in those of asparagus. 

The botanical relation of asparagus to the onion family is pointed 
out, and it is stated that 

\\Tien the tender shoots of asparagus are left in water for a few days the smell 
of onions quickly develops and after a time becomes very marked. Again, if 
asparagus is extracted with ether an oil is obtained which has a faint smell of the 
raw shoot. This oil, on analysis, proves to contain sulphur. It is probably this 
sulphur constituent which gives the well known peculiar odor to the kidney excre- 
tion after a diet of asparagus [methyl mercaptan], and not the other principle 
peculiar to asparagus, asparagin. 

Asparagus, after boiling for 20 minutes, contains too little nutritive 
material to make it of any special importance as a foodstuff, though 
it is valuable as a pleasant adjunct to the meal, and so an undoubted 
aid in the processes of nutrition. Possibly the nutritive material ex- 
tracted by boiling may be utilized in asparagus soup. 

Vitamin, referred to above as existing in the young and tender shoots 
of asparagus, is a name applied to a substance or substances recently 
discovered and seemingly of great physiological importance. Vita- 
mins are widely distributed in foodstuffs, being found in the branny 
portion of cereals, in beans, and many other foodstuffs. The nature 
and function of vitamins are being studied by many investigators and 
it seems clearly demonstrated that such substances are essential to 
normal nutrition and development, though some differences of opin- 
ion are expressed. 

The whole subject first assumed prominence in connection with stud- 
ies of beri-beri — a serious and often fatal disease wiiich is common in 
the Philippines, Java, and other localities in the Orient among people 
whose diet consists very largely of rice supplemented by a little fruit, 
fish, and so on. It was finally showTi that the disease was attributable 
to the use of polished rice and that the use of the unpolished grain or of 
rice bran — the portion of the grain which contains vitamin — would 
prevent and sometimes cure beri-beri. It was also learned that the 
disease could be prevented by adding to the polished rice diet other 
foods containing vitamin, for instance, beans, instead of rice bran. 



466 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

How far the facts observed with rice apply to other cereals cannot 
be definitely stated at present but it has been claimed that a serious 
physiological disturbance is found among Newfoundland fishermen 
whose winter diet is made up of white flour supplemented by other 
foods of limited amount and variety. Whether or not the observed 
condition is attributable to the flour it is certainly the case that what- 
ever the kind of flour selected such disturbances are not generally ob- 
served where the diet is varied. The fair conclusions therefore seem to 
be that if diet is made up largely of bread, it would be wisest to use 
flour made from the entire grain; that a varied diet is preferable to a 
limited one made up of a very few articles; that either kind of rice is 
wholesome in a mixed diet; and that with a varied diet one can use 
the breadstuff which seems to him most palatable, all sorts being 
wholesome under such conditions. 

THE CHEMISTRY OF A CUP OF COFFEE^ 

While coffee and tea infusions contain practically no materials of 
direct food value, except the small amounts of sugar or cream which 
may be added to them, they produce a stimulating effect upon the 
vital centers of the body and, by decreasing nervous fatigue, make us 
less conscious of the fact that we are tired, and thus enable us to do 
more work. This physiological effect is attributed to the alkaloid 
caffein which they contain and if the use of coffee or tea is forbidden 
by a physician it is for the purpose of avoiding the effects of this sub- 
stance. Therefore, it is of first importance in comparing methods of 
preparing these beverages to know the amounts of this principle 
extracted. 

According to experiments reported in the Lancet,^ while tea contains 
from 3 to 4 per cent of caffein, and coffee seldom more than i per cent, 
yet, owing to the much smaller amount of the former used in ordinary 
household practice, infusions of tea. and coffee contain practically 
equal amounts of caffein in the same volumes of liquid. "The caffein 
in tea is for the most part combined with tannin in the form of caffein 
tannate, which is not very soluble in cold water but is easily soluble 
in hot water," while the caffein in coffee is combined with an acid 
(called caffetannic acid by some writers) which has different chemical 

^ See also page 480. 

* Lancet [London], 1913, II, No. 22, pp. 1563-1565. 



1 9 14] The Chemistry oj a Cup of Coffee 467 

properties from the tannin in tea and is readily soluble in both cold 
and hot water. 

As the caffein tannate of tea is precipitated by weak acids and, 
therefore, probably by the gastric juice also, it is likely that the 
. cafTein in tea is not absorbed until it reaches the alkaline juices of the 
r intestines, while the caffein in coffee, which is soluble in both acids 
and alkahs, is probably dissolved by the acid gastric juice and absorbed 
in the stomach. This fact is in harmony with the more rapid and 
powerful stimulating effect of coffee. While it is claimed that coffee 
removes drowsiness, in many cases it produces drowsiness which 
however is soon followed by marked wakefulness. 

Although the analyses of hot and cold water infusions of coffee 
show that cold water extracts from coffee the same weights of caffein, 
caffetannic acid, and mineral matter as hot water does yet the cold 
water infusion is much less palatable and lacks the flavor and aroma 
which are the essential features in making coffee a pleasing beverage, 
and which the hot water infusion possesses. This is probably due to 
the fact that the oils and aromatic principles which impart these 
properties to the infusion are not extracted from the coffee by cold 
water. The physiological effects of a cold water infusion would prob- 
ably be the same as those of a hot water infusion except for the impor- 
tance of these esthetic properties. 

Roasting of coffee is wholly for the the effect on flavor. An infu- 
sion made with raw coffee has a flat taste and the coffee beans must 
be roasted, as the aromatic bases and oils which give the coffee its 
aroma and flavor are formed during the roasting process. It is evndent 
then that these esthetic qualities of the coffee depend to a very great 
extent upon the care spent in the roasting. During this process there 
also occurs a caramelization, or formation of definite chemical com- 
pounds (brown in color) which are the products of partial oxidation 
of the carbohydrates in the coffee bean and give to the infusion its 
characteristic color. 



EDITORIALS 

Museum Collections and Home Economics. The recent report of 
the United States National Museum at Washington mentions a matter 
which is of interest to Home Economics teachers, that is, the growth 
of its art-textiles collection. The Museum depends for this collection 
upon the generosity of manufacturers, and its development is making 
available materials worth the attention of the textile teacher who visits 
the National Capital. There are other textile collections in the Fine 
Arts Museum of Boston, the MetropoHtan Museum of Art and the 
American Museum of Natural History of New York, the Field Mu- 
seum of Chicago and doubtless in many other museums which merit 
similar attention. Many of these collections also illustrate the his- 
tory of costimie. 

Home Economics teachers in all fields should make use of local 
museums wherever possible; if such museums do not possess collec- 
tions which illustrate food, clothing, and shelter, their directors might 
in many cases be interested to begin such collections. The City 
Museum of Milwaukee, for example, has developed a special service 
for the schools, by providing a lecturer and special exhibits to aid 
teachers who bring groups of pupils to the Museum as part of their 
school work. In New York, loan exhibits in natural history are sent 
to the schools. In St. Louis, the schools themselves have museum 
collections which are kept at a central depository and sent out to the 
schools on requisition; the teacher has a catalog of exhibits, and a 
deUvery service brings the materials requested directly to her building. 
In England, the Victoria and Albert Museum at South Kensington 
sends loan exhibits to schools all over England and has thus become 
an important factor in the development of EngUsh technical educa- 
tion. In the United States the museum has not yet been developed 
as an educational agency and social-betterment institution to the 
extent that the pubUc library has been developed in the last two dec- 
ades. The museum has a great future, however, and Home Econom- 
ics teachers should be interested in its development, should utilize its 
present resources and work for enlarged museum facilities. Briefly, 
a national museiun poUcy, viewed from the standpoint of Home 
Economics, would pro\dde: 
468 



1914] Editorials 469 

1. Local museums in all communities, even in small villages (see 
account of Haslemere Educational Museum, in Vol. 2, Special Reports 
of English Board of Education), with collections not only of local 
geography and natural science, but also of industry and social welfare, 
including matters of food, clothing and shelter. 

2. The circulation of loan exhibits from town to town throughout 
a state, thus utilizing the dynamic power of novelty, as has been done 
in tuberculosis, child welfare and other traveling exhibits; in the cir- 
culating art exhibits of Indiana and Minnesota; and to some extent 
in Home Economics exhibits, as in the railroad car exhibits of the agri- 
cultural colleges. 

3. The use of local museums by school children, in part by visiting 
the museum, in part by sending loan collections from museums into 
the schools. 

4. The loan of material to schools from central state museums or 
bureaus. The lantern sUdes loan of the New York State Education 
Department is a pioneer enterprise of great promise, and the Cornell 
University College of Agric\ilture is regularly circulating exhibits for 
town and county fairs. Every State should copy this service, and 
Home Economics teachers should assist in bringing the matter to the 
attention of the state authorities. 

5. The development of school collections and school museums. 
(See the catalog of the Educational Museum of the St. Louis Public 
Schools, and especially the article on School Museiuns in Monroe's 
"Cyclopedia of Education".) Many Home Economics teachers have 
already started such collections, for example, a teaching collection 
of textile samples mounted on cards, each marked with name, price, 
quality and purpose of the fabric. 

6. Increased appropriations for the National Musevun at Washing- 
ton so that it may furnish leadership in a program of museum expan- 
sion throughout the United States; and that it may enlarge its undus- 
trial collections and those concerned with social welfare as well as its 
science collections; the present exhibit in this museum which illus- 
trates the development of artificial illumination, from the pine knot 
to the latest electric lamp, is typical of what a museum may accom- 
plish in historical collections of interest to Home Economics teachers. 
Congress should authorize the National Museum to prepare loan col- 
lections and to provide, if feasible, a circulating service comparable 
with that of the English museums. The subjects of food, clothing, 
and shelter, with which the Home Economics teacher deals, would 
have an appropriate place in such a program. 



470 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

The Home Economics teachers of the country can aid in realizing 
such a program of museimi development and extension. Discover 
what are the present resources of your own school, community and 
state in the way of objective collections and loan exhibits, available 
for teaching, and utilize them in your own work. Raise the issue of 
more objective materials for teaching in educational meetings and bring 
the matter to the attention of local and state educational authorities. 
Stand for the museum not only as a community educational enter- 
prise but as a recreative institution which under urban conditions 
has possibilities not yet commonly appreciated — the museum as dis- 
tinctly an institution for family recreation. 

The Journal a Monthly. Beginning with January 191 5 the Jour- 
nal OF Home Economics will be issued as a monthly. This decision 
has been made at the unanimous request of the members of the Coun- 
cil who are convinced, from a canvass of the situation, that the 
number of pages now furnished in five installments will be more 
welcome and better read in smaller monthly numbers. We are con- 
fidently assured that the growth in the subscription list will soon 
justify the additional outlay for furnishing the material in this form. 

The Executive Secretary. Miss Anna Barrows of the staff of 
Teachers College has been engaged by the Council as Executive 
Secretary for seven months beginning February next. She will pro- 
mote the interests of the Association in all possible ways. She may 
be addressed at Teachers College by clubs and local branches who 
may desire to make dates for addresses or to obtain help in organization. 
Miss Barrows, services will be given free of charge if her expenses 
are paid. 

Material for Teachers. There is great need of teaching material 
in the form of charts, outlines, drafts, etc., exclusive of reading matter. 
Teachers who know of such material will do a valuable service by 
forwarding to the Journal office sample copies or information as to 
where such material may be procured, mentioning whether the 
material is available for free distribution or for sale; also samples of 
anything of the sort which is valuable though not now available 
but which might be reprinted. 

The Journal will be glad to publish a list of such helps. 



HOUSEKEEPERS' DEPARTMENT 

The editors of the Journal earnestly request assistance from the readers of this 
new department. They especially desire suggestions for timely topics on which 
information should be gathered; data either given directly or by reference to books 
and articles; and records of personal observation. 

"Whoso shall teach me how to eat my meat and take my repose 
and deal with men without any shame following shall restore the life 
of man to splendor and make his own name dear to all history." 

From Emerson's Essay on Domestic Life. 

COOPERATIVE BUYING 

During the past year the editors of the Journal have printed in 
every issue news of the starting and progress of experiments in the 
cooperative buying of food. The information has come to us through 
correspondence and has been verified by personal visits and inter- 
views. There are at present five such enterprises in active operation 
on the eastern seaboard. Their methods are various, from the simple 
marketing club which has been so successful in Greensburg, Penn- 
sylvania, to the perfected Rochedale plan, best seen in the store of 
the Cooperative Society of Montclair, New Jersey. See reports in 
the February and June Journals. 

In the following article will be found statements concerning the 
movement in England by Mr. Straus, the president of the Society 
of Thrift who, during the past summer, made a careful study of co- 
operative stores in that country. There is certainly nothing the 
matter with the cooperative principle nor with its working out in 
other countries, but it must be remembered that the English house- 
wife who buys at a cooperative store is following a custom started 
by her grandmother and made into a family habit by her mother. 
No general success in this line can be expected in our country until 
intelligence as to the principles has resulted in a new attitude of 
mind, a new view point of social and economic relations. This will 
not be brought about in a day. 

For the guidance of those who wish to experiment in cooperative 
buying the following suggestions are made: 

471 



472 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

The first requirement is a group of people enthusiastic and intelli- 
gent as to the principles of cooperation. Their first step would be 
to unite ten or more families for buying at wholesale, the food being 
distributed from some central place. What is offered, in the way of 
low rates for shipping goods, by the parcels post and by the new 
produce department of the express companies should be investigated 
by such groups. 

The financial and social experience thus obtained will furnish the 
only safe basis for a larger venture. The next steps would be learning 
at first hand the methods followed by existing stores and obtaining 
a local list of well-known, representative men and women who 
would stand back of the enterprise and promise to work as unpaid 
members of a board of managers to direct its policy. Then would 
come public meetings addressed by speakers who could set forth 
convincingly the social and economic principles underlying the 
cooperative store and the practical plans proposed. If, then, a can- 
vass of the town results in subscriptions for the necessary amount 
of stock there is fair promise of success. One of the most enthusiastic 
cooperators in the country says, "Do not start a cooperative store 
until you have to," which means that there is little hope of success 
without a strong and intelHgent backing. 

To repeat: There is no educator like the small buying club; it can 
be safely started an3rwbere. Out of it may or may not grow the 
cooperative store. It may be said in passing that good speakers 
and good educational leaflets on this subject are greatly needed. 

In the October Journal a promise was made to report the result 
of cooperative enterprises in large cities, but, up to the time of writing, 
they have not been sufficiently worked out to give satisfactory reports. 

THE ENGLISH WOMAN AND THE COOPERATIVE STORE 
S. W. Straus 

President of the American Society for Thrift 

During the several months I spent among the cooperative societies 
in Europe and from investigations made by our society in England 
and Scotland I found that women's efforts have been the most valuable 
feature in a great business or "movement" which is stupendous. The 
women members of the cooperative retail and wholesale societies have 
done wonders in promoting the sale of honest goods, those in which 



1 9 14] Housekeepers^ Department 473 

deceptions, fraud, substitutions, adulteration, do not take dishonest 
toll. They have made cooperation a vital force in business in Britain. 
The victims of war will be distinctly aided by what the cooperative 
societies and the Women's Guilds have done. 

As to the appUcation of cooperative merchandising in this country, 
there is nothing but ignorance, prejudice and the prodigal spirit of 
the people to prevent its success. It is proven sound in principle. 
WTiether its principles shall be appUed in the United States remains 
to be determined. It is up to the people themselves. Like the cost 
of living it is determined by the thrift of individuals. So long as the 
spirit most in evidence is extravagance, a disregard of the pennies, 
the growth of cooperation will be slow. 

In Europe the gains have been by leaps and bounds in recent years; 
the number of members of the British Cooperative Societies has in- 
creased at the rate of three hundred thousand a year. As for Europe 
in general, the leaven from the Rochdale idea had leavened a lump of 
seven thousand and fifty-three societies in 19 10 with a total member- 
ship of five milUon one hundred and forty-three, representing that 
number of homes and families and probably twenty million consumers. 

Do you remember that Bronson Alcott, Hawthorne, Emerson and 
others started in this country the Brook Farm cooperative scheme, 
which lasted only a few years? Brook Farm may have been founded 
on too much altruism and too little business enterprise. It also lacked 
the spur of dire necessity. In England that spur is never lacking and 
the phenomenal success of the cooperative movement in England is, 
after all, due to that fact. 

One of the meetings out of which the great English Cooperative 
WTiolesale Society arose, actually was held under a railway arch by 
men who had no other leisure to give for this purpose than their Good 
Fridays and Christmas Days. Of course, the wholesale society, as 
its name imphes, was meant to be simply a market for the retail socie- 
ties, in which they could buy without fear of deceit or false dealing 
or boycott and through which the small and the large buyer had equal 
opportunity to obtain pure and honest goods. But the nation-wide 
proprietors of each federation discovered that they could carry their 
unity a stage further by starting factories to supply their own organ- 
ized market. Out of this discovery has grown the present interde- 
pendent chain of sixty productive factories owned by the English 
Cooperative Wholesale Society, emplo>ing twenty-three thousand 
workers in various parts of the country and producing goods to the 



474 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

value of about eight millions sterling yearly — a growing factor in the 
stupendous total of merchandising by the Cooperative Societies. 

The whole of this vast organization remains, however, entirely 
responsive under the democratic system to the two million individual 
working men and women cooperators whose weekly purchases are the 
basis of the whole. And although the women last year had gone only 
so far as to put a number of their sisters upon the management com- 
mittees of retail societies, the number of women is rapidly growing; 
they come into direct relation with the wholesale society through 
buying its products under the society's brands and the annual meeting 
this spring showed that before long the women will hold many seats 
on the board of the wholesale federation. There is nothing in the rules 
to stop them, for this great movement is as entirely free and demo- 
cratic as anything to be found between the Pacific and Atlantic coasts 
of America. 

It is a common saying that the English "C.W.S" will supply any 
article from an elephant to a pin, and certainly on one occasion a 
store member in a dilenoma not only got his fumitiu-e for his new home 
from the central warehouses of the federation, but, at an hour's notice, 
from amongst the clerks a gap in his wedding arrangements was filled 
by a "best man" also. 

THE MATTRESS 

Hakriette T. Richardson 

Two laws protect the purchaser of a mattress in the State of New 
York. The first governs the re-selling of mattresses and prevents 
hucksters from collecting and disposing of those discarded and left 
upon the streets or presenting them for sale in second-hand stores. 
The second law does not allow a shop to send out returned goods and 
has been in effect since January, 19 14. 

The essential difference between the feather bed and the mattress 
is the use of a narrow strip attached to all four sides and called the 
border. The border pro\ddes the mattress with an even height and 
is only 2^ inches and unstitched in the cheaper mattresses, but as 
high as 6 inches in fine grades where as many as five rows of stitching 
hold the filling from bulging at the sides and keep the lines true and 
firm. In the more luxurious makes the edges are finished with the 
imperial roll border which requires from 5 to 10 pounds more filling 
than is the rule. This firm finish sustains the body pressure even to 
the edge of the bed. 



1914] Housekeepers^ Department 475 

Another point of difference between the feather bed and the mattress 
is the symmetrical tufting which creates an even surface and a non- 
breakable filling. In some instances lacing is used in place of tufting, 
allowing the mattress to be loosened or tightened at will. This method 
of obtaining an even distribution of pressure is recommended where 
the mattress is subjected to unusual weight and strain. 

The tick is to be found in three grades. The heavy twill costing 
28 cen's per yard, which requires no lining and wears indefinitely; 
the creton, 25 cents per yard and 18 inches wide which exhibits a wide 
choice of delicate colors, but is of limited wearing quality, and requires 
a lining adding $4 to the expense; the linen, 65 cents per yard, and 
over 50 inches wide which affords daintiness in design and color, but 
requires an interlining at an additional cost of $7. 

FilUng may be seen in nine distinct materials. They are straw, 
excelsior and wood shavings, com cob, African fibre (a grass with 
unbreakable stems), tampico or shredded palm leaves, silk floss, 
cotton felt (to be found in two grades, the dark and the Ught), and 
most important of all, the three grades of hair — gray, black and white. 
Less commonly used in this country is lamb's wool in two qualities, 
the French and the American, which differs sHghtly in price, the 
imported being the more costly. 

The combinations of African fibre with hair, tampico, white hair 
and cotton, the three grades of hair with cotton felt, and hair with 
lamb's wool, would seem to offer a bewildering choice. When, how- 
ever, durability and resiUency are required the choice is easy. 

In the first five grades and in the darker felt neither durabiUty nor 
resihency can be claimed. The Ufe of the felting is short and it soon 
becomes matted. 

The flaked cotton mattress is guaranteed for five years' wear, per- 
haps longer. It has been developed \mder different forms — tufted and 
imtufted, and provides a clean and comfortable bed at a reasonable 
price. The tufted mattress receives the cotton after carding and 
combing and is built layer upon layer in felts which are pressed into 
position ; while the vm tufted mattress is made by shredding the cotton, 
blowing it through a tube into the tick, and pressing with hydrauUc 
pressure. The cost of these mattresses which may be bought with 
or without the imperial roll is from ten to twenty dollars. 

The most important kind of filling is horse hair; and since hair 
has been brought from Argentina and Uraguay the hair mattress has 
come into common use. 



476 The Journal oj Home Economics [December 

The charge has been made that horse hair is unhygienic and a car- 
rier of disease and that it is cut from dead and diseased animals. This 
is a mistake. The Vice Consul of Cordoba certifies that in the last 
thirty years the hair exported has been cut semi-annually from live 
and healthy horses. The fact that all leading hospitals and colleges 
prefer it to any other filling and that the United States Navy uses 
nothing else seems to vouch for its merit. The very processes neces- 
sary for its preparation are sanitary in the highest degree. 

WTien received at the factories it is sterilized by boiling in water 
with chemicals to remove the natural oils, dust and vermin. The 
black, gray and white hairs of both mane and tails are separated, 
spun into ropes and boiled once more to set the curl. These ropes 
are allowed to stand for months, the longer the hair remains in the 
ropes the longer it will keep its spring. It is imported in ropes. The 
white hair is bleached and handled quite by itself. 

When the tick is ready for filling the ropes are opened, handfuls of 
the springy masses are thrown into it and the mattress sewed and 
tufted. In renovation the process is nearly the same as in the original 
fiUing. 

The cost of a pure hair mattress varies from $23 to $100. The 
weight is more variable than the price but averages within the 1 imits 
of 25 and 40 pounds for a single bed and 35 and 50 pounds for a double 
bed. Many combinations of hair with other fillings are offered but 
sound judgment recommends the purchase of pure hair if only of the 
medium grade. In making a final decision it will be remembered 
however that for comfort the cotton mattress ranks with the medium 
grade of hair while its cost is hardly one-half. In durability no prod- 
uct out-ranks horse hair, as is shown by the fact that some hair mat- 
tresses have been known to keep their resiliency for over fifty years. 
If we give this fact due weight the hair mattress would be the cheapest. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSINGi 

From studies of mayonnaise dressing in regard to the process of emvd- 
sification of an oil and egg yolk, or substitute, together with flavorings; 
the variations of the substitutes and of the oils, and the resulting 

^ Extracts from A Study of Mayonnaise made by Margery Johnstone, University 
of Washington, Seattle, Washington. 



1 9 14] Housekeepers' Department /^'j'j 

variations in texture, color, flavor, the keeping qualities and the 
nutritive values and prices, the following conclusions are drawn: 

As a base for the mayonnaise dressing, for the yolk of egg, there 
can be substituted successfully the white of egg, condensed milk, 
gelatin, beef extract and gum arable. The emulsion will be as com- 
plete as the one made with the yolk, but the nutritive value will be 
decreased. At the usual prices the cost of a dressing made with 
gelatin or condensed milk will be one and one-half to two cents less 
than one made with egg yolk but the nutritive value will be less; 
with beef extract, or gum arable the cost will be one and one-half to two 
cents more than one made with egg yolk, while the nutritive value 
will be negligible as compared to that of the egg yolk in the standard 
dressing. 

For the standard dressing the following proportions were used: 
\ cup oil, I egg yolk, 2 tablespoonfuls acid (vinegar or lemon juice), 
J teaspoonful salt, with paprika, mustard, cayenne, and sugar to taste. 

In the other dressings the proportions were the same, but for one 
egg yolk there was substituted — i egg white; i tablespoonful of con- 
densed milk; \ teaspoonful gelatin in i tablespoonful water, heated 
to dissolve and then cooled to 7o°F.; i teaspoonful beef extract with 
I teaspoonful cold water; | teaspoonful powdered gum arable in 
4 teaspoonfuls water. 

The oils can be interchanged with no difference in the texture of the 
emulsion and in nutritive value, but the cost will vary — cotton-seed 
oil being the least expensive tested, peanut next, and olive oil the most 
expensive. With most people no difference can be detected between 
olive oil and a good brand of cotton-seed oil when served on a salad. 
Some grades of peanut oil are not pleasing to the taste. Fine grades 
of peanut oil are of good flavor. 

In quantity, the dressing may be increased to double its bulk without 
diminishing the flavor by adding a seasoned corn-starch of a consist- 
ency similar to the mayonnaise, or the white of egg beaten stiff may 
be used as a diluent. 

The experiments show that a mayonnaise dressing made with vine- 
gar instead of lemon jmce is less Hable to mold. Even if bacterial 
decomposition and growth of mould do not occur, the emulsion by 
its nature is not permanent. The dressing should be kept in an air- 
tight jar in a cool place. 



478 The Joiirnal of Home Economics [December 

FACTORS OF BREADMAKiNGi 

How frequently the hostess who does her own cooking has to apologize because 
her bread is too dr>', too light, too coarse or perhaps is even sour. Why not know 
the cause and effect in regard to each factor and be sure of satisfactory results? 
The waste of time and material in experimenting has been saved for you by Miss 
Williams whose conclusions are here given. 

Dough. Moderately stifif dough gives a loaf that is more rounded on 
top, more compact, of finer texture, whiter, dr>^er crumb, and richer 
color of crust, than does soft dough. 

Liquid. Water gives a whiter bread, of finer texture, sweeter 
flavor, but less elasticity and greater tendency to dry out than does 
any other hquid. Milk makes a somewhat more elastic loaf with a 
deeper colored crust. Potato water hastens the time of rising, makes 
an especially spongy loaf, and markedly increases the keeping qualities. 

Kind and amount of yeast. The use of compressed yeast allows the 
wheat grain to retain its sweet nutty flavor. Potato Hquid yeast 
gives the most elastic bread with the best keeping qualities. Starters 
made from the dough or sponge are very Ukely to produce sour bread, 
and for that reason are not to be recommended. 

Good compressed yeast can be used to as high an amovmt as 4 cakes 
to the loaf without tasting. The bread, however, becomes somewhat 
tasteless, lacking the deUcate flavor of the wheat grain . For this reason 
the use of a large amount of yeast is more satisfactory in rolls where fla- 
voring materials, such as butter and sugar, are added. The loaf is much 
more likely to rise high and burst open during baking, but the texture 
is made finer by increase of yeast. When a good quaUty of yeast is 
used an increase up to 2 cakes of compressed yeast to the loaf could 
be recommended for shortening time and producing better bread. 

Rising. Repeated risings, even without kneading, give increase 
in fineness of texture, whiteness of crumb, and silkiness. Each time 
the dough is fight it may be cut back, thus allowing the gas to escape. 
If bread must stand for some length of time before baking, and there 
is danger of souring, cutring back will enable the dough to stand an 
even longer time than usual without deterioration of flavor. 

The cause of much coarseness in bread is overfightness, and this 
may easily be remedied by putdng the bread into the oven sooner. 
The degree of fightness in the second rising determines the fineness of 
texture. This fineness is not lessened by overiightness in the first 

1 For further details see "Results of a Study of the Factors of Breadmaking," 
by .\nna W. Williams. Journal of Home Economics, 19 14, February, pp. 21-28. 



1 9 14] Housekeepers' Department 479 

rising, and the bread is more elastic and silky for having reached its 
maximum expansion once during the process. 

Kneading. Improvement in texture due to kneading after the 
dough has become smooth and satiny is not in proportion to the in- 
crease in labor. There is, undoubtedly, a marked difference in tex- 
ture due to manner of kneading. The most effective stroke is long, 
firm and even, covering all portions of the dough alike, and yet quick 
so that the dough may be kept constantly in motion. 

Loaves, which are lightly molded, without kneading, are superior 
in all points except in fineness and evenness of texture. 

Temperature. Overheating of the dough gives a loaf of small 
volume, coarse texture, dark crumb, and dull, unattractive crust. 
Chilling the dough tends to lessen its volume and to produce com- 
pactness, coarseness, and toughness of crumb. The later in the proc- 
ess the chilling occurs the less influence it has upon the bread. There 
is very Httle difference in the short process bread raised at the tem- 
peratures of 26° and 40°C. (about 79° and i04°F.). Such difference 
is not enough to justify the additional length of time demanded by 
the lower temperature. 

Baking. Too high a temperature for the first fifteen minutes 
produces a hard, tough crust, and loss of brightness, while a tender, 
crisp, bright colored crust, and a loaf of fine texture, tenderness and 
silkiness are obtained by putting a loaf doubled in bulk into a moder- 
ate oven (i8o°C., or 356°F.) for the first ten minutes, at the end of 
which the bread is crusted over and beginning to brown in patches; 
for the next fifteen minutes gradually increasing the temperature 
to 235°C., or 455°F. when the rich brown color of the crust is obtained; 
and then finishing the baking in a moderately hot oven, so that the 
crust does not darken any further. In such an oven forty-five min- 
utes is sufficient for the single loaf. 

Keeping. Stickiness or sliminess in the center of the loaf is due to 
a bacillus which is usually found in the floiu". Thorough baking does 
not kill the organism, although it does somewhat retard its growth. 
The remedy lies first in the removal of the source of the organism. 
This can be done only by discarding the flour and sunning, airing, 
and scouring all bins, boards, and utensils for days, after which 
a fresh supply of flour may be obtained. The organism may be pre- 
vented from developing in the bread by keeping the loaf in a dry and 
especially in a cool place. In a sample made from badly infected 
flour the bacillus failed to develop in the ice box. Bread made with 
buttermilk as the liquid also fails to develop ropiness. 



480 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

THE BEST METHOD FOR MAKING COFFEEi 

A series of experiments were recently carried out by Wilcox and 
Aborn^ to determine the best method for making coffee. Seven table- 
spoonfuls of coffee were used with six cups of water which was regarded 
as the usual household allowance. The infusions were prepared by 
four different methods, as follows: boiUng, in which medium ground 
coffee was placed in cold water, heated to the boiling point and then 
boiled for five minutes, after which the grounds were settled by the 
addition of a little cold water and the infusion poured off; steeping, 
in which the grounds were settled and the infusion poured off as soon 
as the boiling point was reached; percolation, in which the finely 
ground coffee was used and the directions furnished by the manufactur- 
ers of the percolators followed; and filtration, in which the required 
amount of actively boiling water was poured once through the pulver- 
ized coffee contained in a fine muslin bag. 

These experiments showed that the strength of the infusion depends 
upon the fineness to which the coffee is ground rather than upon the 
time of cooking. It is essential to grind the coffee just before using, 
as ground coffee loses its flavor very rapidly on standing, even when 
kept in tin cans and for as short a time as four days. This would 
seem to demonstrate the advantage of the method adopted by some 
housekeepers of buying unground coffee and grinding the required 
amount each morning. 

A long period of cooking extracts a greater proportion of the tannin, 
which imparts a bitter taste to the infusion, than of the aromatic 
substances which produce the flavor and aroma. Thus, in percola- 
tion where the water is forced up and flows down through the coffee 
several times and is in contact with the coffee for a long period, more 
tannin is extracted; and the water which is considerably below the 
bo Ung point when it reaches the coffee does not extract so large a pro- 
portion of the flavor-giving ingredients. On the other hand, in the 
method of filtration, which is recommended as best bringing out the 
distinctive qualities of different coffees and producing the most agree- 
able flavors in the infusions, actively boiUng water and pulverized 
coffee are used. The water is then at the most efficient temperature 
for extracting the aromatic bodies and the coffee is in the most efficient 
state for the extraction of these flavor-giving qualities. 

^ See also page 466. 

^ Pure Products, 9, 1913, no. 12, pp. 611-615; Tea and Cofee Trade Jotir., 25, 
1913, no. 6, pp. 568-574. 



1914] Housekeepers' Department 481 

Accurate measurement of coffee, water, and time of cooking were 
found to be necessary for the production of an infusion of high quaHty 
and uniformity. 

Clearing the coffee by straining is recommended rather than by the 
addition of an egg, as the former method introduces no foreign 
substances into the infusion. 

From these experiments the following recipe has been prepared which 
will enable the housekeeper to make a clear coffee of pleasing color, 
taste, aroma, and flavor, mth utensils found in any kitchen. This 
is essentially the method used in preparing the so-called "drip coffee." 

On a piece of fine muslin securely fastened over the top of an ordi- 
nary coffee pot or pitcher, place seven tablespoonfuls of finely ground 
or pulverized coffee. Pour through this, just once, a small portion at 
a time, si.\ cups of actively boiling water. The muslin should be rinsed 
out and kept in cold water (which must be changed every day) until 
used again. The cloth will then keep sweet much better than if al- 
lowed to dry. The actively boiUng water and finely ground coffee 
are absolutely necessary. 

HEATING TESTS OF HARD AND SOFT COAL AND BRIQUETTES 
FOR HOUSEHOLD USE 

As a part of the fuel briquetting investigations carried out by the 
United States Bureau of Mines and reported by C. L. Wright, fifty- 
eight tests were made with a sectional boiler and were run for about 
eight hours at a steam pressure of 2 to 3 pounds — conditions com- 
parable to those of the average house heating boilers. 

The results of these tests show that in such a boiler the heating 
value of the different fuels depends upon the number of heat units 
which they contain; that the harder coals, those which contain the 
higher percentages of fixed carbon, are more eflScient and give less 
trouble from smoke but under some conditions where the difference 
in price of hard, or anthracite coal, and soft, or bituminous coal, is 
very great, the use of the latter for house heating purposes is more 
economical than the former. For example, in a given locality where 
hard coal costs $8 per ton and soft coal $4 per ton, according to the 
results of these experiments it would cost 52 cents to convert a given 
weight of water into steam using hard coal as a fuel and only about 
24 cents if soft coal were used. It must be remembered, however, 
that soft coal is much dirtier to handle, gives off much more soot and 
smoke, and the fire requires more attention than is the case with hard 
coal. 



482 The Journal oj Home Economics [December 

Briquettes are made by mixing coal dust with a pitch binder and 
subjecting the mass to great pressure. It is then cut into pieces of 
the shape of a brick and pierced with holes to allow the passage of air 
through it. 

Although briquettes are much more common in Europe, their use 
in this country is gradually increasing each >ear. In many parts of 
the country where good hard or soft coals are very expensive there 
are large supplies of low grade coals which could be briquetted suc- 
cessfully and a much cheaper fuel produced for household heating. 

A comparison of large and small briquettes showed the former to 
be more efi&cient than the latter. The briquettes kindled readily 
from a wood fire and biirned well, but there was considerable difficulty 
in obtaining a complete combustion, which reduced the average effi- 
ciency. 

By use of proper methods and less volatile binders than those now in 
common use, cheaper fuels, such as finely broken coal which is apt to be 
wasted at the mine and low grade coals, Uke lignite, both of which are 
not suitable for general use as fuel may be utilized by briquetting. 
The advantages possessed by properly prepared briquettes over these 
low grade fuels are principally as follows: A more thorough com- 
bustion is obtained without the formation of clinkers; the fuel does 
not cake and cut off the draft of the fire; there is less soot and smoke 
produced; thefuelhasahigher heating value; and less care is required 
in running the fire. 

THE INFLUENCE OF GLUCOSE ON THE COOKING 
TEMPERATURES OF CANDY SYRUPSi 

Amy Daniels 

There are two ways of determining when candy syrups are suffi- 
ciently cooked, first the method used by most amateurs which con- 
sists in testing the consistency of a boiUng syrup by dropping a small 
amount of it into cold water; second the more exact method employed 
by professional candy makers which consists in determining the boil- 
ing temperature of syrups of different consistencies. For example, 
the housekeeper cooks candy syrups to the soft or hard ball stage, the 
crack, hard crack or caramel stage. These she is able to determine 
fairly accurately by the means described. The professional candy 
maker who must produce candies of uniform quality must have a more 

^ See also page 457. 



I9I4] 



Housekeepers^ Depanment 



483 



accurate method, therefore he uses the thermometer in order to deter- 
mine just when the various stages are reached. 

When sucrose (cane sugar) is the principal sugar used in the candy 
mixture the following temperatures are given by syrups of different 
consistencies: 



SoftBaU 113 C.2 

Hard Ball 122° C. 

Crack 132 C. 



Hard Crack 145 C. 

Barley 149 C. 

Caramel 1 54 C. 



But when a considerable amount of glucose is used in the candy 
these consistencies are reached at lower temperatures. For example, 
when two parts of cane sugar are used to one part of glucose the typical 
consistencies are reached at the following temperatures: 



SoftBaU 112° C. 

HardBaU 118° C. 

Crack 125° C. 



Hard Crack 135 C. 

Barley 141 C. 

Caramel 144-150 C. 



When equal quantities of glucose and cane sugar are used the syrups 



register as follows: 



SoftBaU Ill C. 

HardBaU 116° C. 

Crack 122 C. 



Hard Crack 125 C. 

Barley 138° C. 

Caramel 142 C. 



When glucose alone is used the typical consistencies are 
reached at even lower temperatures: 



SoftBaU no C. 

Hard BaU 114 C. 

Crack 120 C. 



Hard Crack 122 C. 

Barley 128° C. 

Caramel 133 C. 



The amateur candy maker who wishes to perfect her prod- 
ucts will find that more uniform results will be obtained if 
she follows the example of the professional worker and uses 
a thermometer in order to determine when candy syrups 
are sufficiently cooked. A elass stemmed thermometer regis- 
tering as high as 200° centigrade can be purchased through 
any druggist for about $1.25. In using these, care should 
be taken that the bulb is completely submerged in the boil- 
ing liquid, otherwise the mercury will register too low; but 



2 Some cookery books give cooking temperatures for candies according to the 
Fahrenheit scale. To change the above to Fahrenheit multiply by | and add 32. 



484 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

this bulb should at no time rest on the bottom of the kettle, for there 
the temperature will be higher than that of the boiling liquid. Candy 
thermometers which are so constructed that the registering stem is 
encased in a copper frame are on the market, but these are much 
more expensive and no more satisfactory. 

A thermometer which sells at $2.50 is shown in the accompanying 
cut on page 483. 

STREAKINESS OF CHOCOLATE ON CANDIESi 

"WTien covering chocolate is poured into a bright tin mould, allowed 
to cool and then taken out, the surface of the chocolate w'hich has 
cooled out of contact with air is bright and glossy. If chocolate of 
the same temperature is used for covering pieces of glace fruits or any 
substance used as a center, and cooled in contact with the atmos- 
phere, the surface is sometimes streaky and mottled. What causes 
this streakiness? (I am quite aware of the fact that the temperature 
of the covering chocolate is important and that if used too warm it 
will streak and be dull.)" 

Covering chocolate appears to be essentially ground cocoa bean 
mixed with sugar. The cocoa-fat in one sample examined was 36 
per cent. On heating, the cocoa butter melts and the insoluble sub- 
stances are suspended. 

Experiments show that if kept at a temperature much higher than 
the melting point of cocoa butter (30° to 34°C.) the suspended matter 
tends to separate imequally. This is seen well if microscopic slides 
are prepared with the well-mixed melted material. 

Some chocolate covering was melted in watch glasses and kept at 
temperatures from 80° to i3o'*C. for some time without stirring, and 
then allowed to cool. The higher the temperature the worse the 
surface became and streaks of lighter material were observed separat- 
ing from the brown cocoa particles. The rusty or streaky appear- 
ance on chocolates appears therefore to be caused by unequal distribu- 
tion of the brown cocoa particles and the colorless cocoa starch in 
the fatty medium. So long as the covering chocolate remains liquid 
or soft, the particles tend to aggregate, and so unequal coloring is 
produced. If the fat is too Uquid there is time for it to fall away 
sUghtly from the surface and leave it roughened with the powdered 
cocoa. This obviously will not happen when the surface of the choco- 

* From The Epicure, 21, 1914, no. 248, p. 124. 



I9I4] 



Housekeepers^ Department 



485 



late cools quickly in contact with a metallic surface (metals being 
relatively good conductors of heat), and especially if the metalhc 
surface be smooth. 



THE USE OF GELATINES! 

It is well known to the cook that commercial brands of gelatine 
dififer in their gelatinizing power; how widely they differ will be 
seen by the following table which resulted from a student's study 
of the subject after carefully calculating the cost of the amouit of 
each brand required to make a pint of clear, firm jelly. 

Comparison of costs of diferent brands 



MATERIAL 


AMOUNT OP GELATINE USED 


COST 0» GELATINE 


Brand A 


tables poon/uls 

I 
2i 


cents 

2-5 

2.0 
75 
30 
3-3 




Brand B 




Brand C 




Brand D 




Brand E 









To the above cost per pint must be added from 3^ to 4^ cents for 
sugar and flavoring used. The total cost for a pint of jelly made by 
using various preparations containing sugar and flavoring is about 
10 cents. 

In making jelly from gelatine it was foimd that the addition of very 
acid fruit juice tends to lessen the gelatinizing process. 

The effect of boiling on gelatinization was found to be negligible 
unless continued for more than fifteen minutes. Boiling for thirty 
minutes produced a less firm jelly and for forty-five minutes, a de- 
cidedly soft jelly. Adding boiling water to the gelatine after soaking 
in cold water does not always dissolve every particle of it but boiling 
for a few minutes will thoroughly dissolve the gelatine and produce a 
clear jelly. 

Although gelatine is a nitrogenous substance it does not equal some 
other proteins in value, nor does it take their place in building or 
repairing the tissues of the body and therefore should not be depended 
upon as a substitute for such proteins. 

1 Compiled from Gelatine as Food, a thesis by Ruth Klein. Senior Normal 
Work, 1913, School of Household Science and Arts, Pratt Institute. 



^86 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

TWO EXTREMES IN NUTRITION 

Two studies recently made by European scientists^ illustrate the 
wide range in nutritive conditions to which the human being can 
adapt himself. 

In one case an Eskimo on the Island of Disco in Western Greenland 
consumed in one day 1804 grams (nearly four pounds) of boiled meat 
corresponding to 85 grams of nitrogen and 218 grams of fat. This is 
said to be far below the record figure among these people who eat 
very large meals at irregular and somewhat infrequent intervals. 
Nutritive disorders are rare among them and their physical endurance 
and resistance to cold is very high. The utiUzation of the above meal 
was found to be very satisfactory. 

The other study was of a man in Copenhagen "who was able to main- 
tain himself in excellent nutritive equilibrium and muscular efiiciency 
through long periods of months, not merely days, on a diet essentially 
composed of potatoes and margarin." Four pounds of potatoes were 
eaten daily, yielding 3.62 grams of digestible nitrogen which with the 
margarin amounted to 3900 calories. When hard work had to be 
performed this man ate 8 pounds of potatoes with liberal additions 
of fat so that the entire energy content was brought up to 5000 calories 
with 10 grams of digestible nitrogen. "No dilatation of the stomach 
resulted from these monster meals." 

Such curiosities of the literature of nutrition simply show the great 
adaptability of the human organism which has enabled man to live 
in every region of the earth. This subject is still further illustrated 
by Dr. Meltzer's interesting paper.^ It is needless to say that 
neither the maximum nor the minimum of any nutritive element is 
desirable. The normal individual lives in the safe medium. 

1 A Study of the Diet and Metabolism of Eskimos. A. and M. Krough, Copen- 
hagen, Bianco Luno, 1Q13. 

Studies of Protein Minimum, M. Hindhede, Skmid. Arch. Physiol., 30, 1913, 
no. 1-3, pp. 97-182, 228, figs. 5. 

* The Factor of Safety in the Human Body. S. J. Meltzer, Jour. Amer. Med. 
Assn., 48, 1907, no. 8, pp. 655-664; and Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., 25, 1907, no. 639, 
pp. 481-498. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY FOR HOME ECONOMICS 
LITERATURE 

Food 

Composition of Roquefort Cheese Fat. J. N. Currie, Jour. Agr. Research, ii, 
1914, no. 6, pp. 429-434- 

Bacteria Concerned in the Production of the Characteristic Flavor in Cheese 
of the Cheddar Type. Alice C. Evans, E. G. Hastings, and E. B. Hart, Jour. Agr. 
Research, ii, 1914, no. 3, pp. 167-192. 

Relation of the Action of Certain Bacteria to the Ripening of Cheese of the 
Cheddar Type. E. B. Hart, E. G. Hastings, E. M. Flint, and Alice C. Evans, 
Jour. Agr. Research, ii, 1914, no. 3, pp. 193-216. 

The Effect of Bread Wrapping Upon the Chemical Composition of the Loaf. 
H. E. Barnard and H. E. Bishop, Jour. Indus, and Eng. Chem., vi, 1914, no. 9, pp. 
736-746. 

Some Data on Peanut Butter. C. A. A. Utt, Jour. Itidus. and Eng. Chem., 
vi, 1914, no. 9, pp. 746, 747. 

The Composition of Carabao Milk. E. R. Dovey, Philipp. Jour. Sci., viii 
(a), 1914, pp. 151-157- 

Decomposition and Preservation of Eggs. A. Kossowics, Wiesbaden, 1913, 
pp. 74; abs. Exper. Sta. Rec, xxix, 1914, p. 765. 

The Viscocity of Cream. F. K. M. Dumaresq, Proc. Roy. Soc. Victoria, n. ser., 
XXV, 1913, no. 2, pp. 307-322; abs. Exper. Sta. Rec, xxx, 1914, p. 179. 

Sanatogen: A Scientific Investigation of Its Alleged Action on the Recuperating 
Powers of the Blood. Report of the Coimcil of Pharmacy and Chemistry, Jour. 
Am. Med. Assn., Ixiii, 1914, no. 13, pp. 1127-1129. 

Note on the Quantity of Benzoic Acid Contained in Prunes and Cranberries. 
M. J. Radin, Jour. Indus, and Eng. Chem., vi, 1914, no. 6, p. 518. 

Modem [Artificial] Fruit Ethers. E. Walter, Pure Products, ix, 1913, no. ir, 

PP- 543-549- 

A Report of a Chemical and Bacteriological Study of Wrapped Bread. B. R. 
Jacobs, J. A. LeCIerc and Maud L. Mason, Am. Jour. Pub. Health, iv, 1914, no. 9, 
pp. 721-732- 

Notes on Some Dutch Cheeses. Pure Products, x, 1914, no. 7, pp. 349-351. 

Food Analyses and Other Pure Food and Drug Topics. E. F. Ladd and Alma K. 
Johnson, North Dakota Sta. Spec. Bui., iii, 1914, no. i, pp. 1-8, 12-32. 

The Enzymic Action of Fresh Foods and Condiments. T. Tadokoro, Jour. 
Col. Agr. Tohoku Imp. Univ., v, 1913, no. 2, pp. 57-72. 

Sugar-Palm Sap. C. W. Hines, Philipp. Agr. Rev., vii, 1914, no. 5, pp. 222-228. 

Alum in Foods. Contribution from the Referee Board of Consulting Scientific 
Experts. U. S. Dept. Agr. Bui., 103, 1914, pp. 7. 

487 



488 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

Eremocitrus, A New Genus of Hardy, Drouth-Resistant Citrous Fruits from 
Australia. W. T. Swingle, Jaur. Agr. Research, ii, 1914, no. 2, pp. 85-100. 

Food Analyses and Other Pure Food and Drug Topics. E. F. Ladd and Alma 
K. Johnson, North Dakota Sta. Spec. Bui. ii, 1913, no. 22, pp. 373-392. 

Nutrition 

Contributions to the Physiology of the Stomach, XIII. The Variations in the 
Htmger Contractions of the Empty Stomach with Age. T. L. Patterson, Am. 
Jour. Physiol., xxxiii, 1914, no. 3, pp. 423-429. 

Discussion on Diseases Due to Deficiencies in Diet. F. G. Hopkins, Proc. Roy. 
Soc, Section in Med. Therap. and Pharmacol., vii, 1913, p. i. (See also Lancet 
[London], 1913, xi, no. 19, pp. 1309, 1310). 

Diseases Due to Dietary Deficiencies. Editorial, Jour. Am. Med. Assn., Lxii, 
1914, no. 15, pp. 1170, 1171. 

Recent Work on the Physiologic Pathology of Glycosuria. J. J. R. Macleod, 
Jour. Am. Med. Assn., lxii, 1914, no. 16, pp. 1 222-1 230. 

Studies on Enzyme Action. X. The Lipolytic Properties of Human Duodenal 
Contents. K. G. Falk, Jour. Am. Chem. Soc, xxxvi, 1914, no. 5, pp. 1047-1057. 

Practical Study of Goat's Milk in Infant Feeding As Compared to Cow's Milk. 
D. H. Sherman and H. R. Lohnes, Jour. An. Med. Assn., lxii, 1914, no. 23, pp. 
1806, 1807. 

The Chemistry of Gluconeogenesis, VIII. The Velocity of Formation and 
EUmination of Glucose by Diabetic Animals. A. J. Ringer and E. M. Frankel, 
Jour. Biol. Chem., xviii, 1914, no. i, pp. 81-86. 

The Suppression of Growth and the Capacity to Grow. T. B. Osborne and 
L. B. Mendel, Jour. Biol. Chem., xviii, 1914, no. i, pp. 95-103. 

Studies on Water Drinking, XVIII. On the Relation Between Water Ingestion 
and the Ammonia, Phosphate, Chlorid and Acid Excretion. D. W. Wilson and 
P. B. Hawk, Joiir. Am. Chem. Soc, xxxvi, 1914, no. 8, pp. 1774-1779. 

Studies on Water Drinking, XIX. Intestinal Putrefaction as Influenced By 
the Ingestion of Softened and Distilled Waters. C. P. Sherwin and P. B. Hawk, 
Jour. Am. Chem. Soc, xxxvi, 1914, no. 8, pp. 1779-1785. 

Metabolism and Vitality. J. B. Nichols, Med. Rec [N. Y.], Ixxxv, 1914, no. 7, 
pp. 289-291. 

Food Value Required By Growing Girls, Aged Four to Fifteen. J. G. Sharp, 
Brit. Jour. Child. Dis., xi, 1914, nos. 125, p. 200; 126, p. 241. 

Nutrition Properties of the Proteins of the Maize Kernel. T. B. Osborne and 
L. B. Mendel, Jour. Biol. Chem., xviii, 1914, no. i, pp. 1-16. 

The Importance of the Liver in Urea Formation From Amino Acids. C. H. 
Fiske and J. B. Sumner, Jour. Biol. Chem., xviii, 1914, no. 2, pp. 285-295. 

The Metabolic Relationships of the Acetone Substances. W. McK. Marriott, 
Jour. Biol. Chem., xviii, 1914, no. 2, pp. 241-262. 

The Actual Acidity of Human Gastric Juice. Editorial, Jour. Am. Med. Assn., 
bciii, 1914, no. 7, pp. 580, 581. 

The Nutrient Value of Inorganic Salts of Lime and Phosphoric Acid. Editorial, 
Jour. Am. Med. Assn., Lxiii, 1914, no. 7, pp. 581, 582. 



19 14] Bibliography of Current Literature 489 

The Basal Gaseous Metabolism of Normal Men and Women. F. G. Benedict, 
L. E. Emmes, P. Roth and H. M. Smith, Jour. Biol. Chem., xviii, 1914, no. 2, 

pp. 139-157- 

Studies in Creatin and Creatinin Metabolism. I. The Preparation of Creatin 
and Creatinin from Urine; II. The Estimation of Creatin; III. On the Origin 
of Urinary Creatin. S. R. Benedict, Jour. Biol. Chem., xviii, 1914, no. 2, pp. 
183-190; 191-194; 195-214. 

The Effects of Food on Metabolism in Typhoid Fever. W. Coleman, Jour. 
Am. Med. Assn., Ixiii, 1914, no. 11, pp. 932-936. 

Studies Concerning Diabetes. F. M. Allen, Jour. Am. Med. Assn., Ixiii, 1914, 
no. II, pp. 939-943- 

The Purins and AUmentary Bacteria. Editorial, Jour. Am. Med. Assn., Ixiii, 
1914, no. 10, pp. 871, 872. 

The Total Energy Requirement in Disease As Determined By Calorimetric 
Observations. E. F. DuBois, Jour. Am. Med. Assn., Ixiii, 1914, no. 10, pp. 827-832. 

The Specific Dynamic Action of the Foodstuffs. G. Lusk, Jour. Am. Med. 
Assn., Ixiii, 1914, no. 10, pp. 824-827. 

Observations on the Excretion of Creatinin by Women. Mary Hull, Jour. 
Am. Chem. Soc, xxxvi, 1914, no. 10, pp. 2146-2151. 

Utilization of the Proteins of Cottonseed by Man. J. B. Rather, Jour. Am. 
Chem. Soc, xxx\'i. 1914, no. 3, pp. 584-586. 

The Chemistry of Gluconeogenesis, IX. The Formation of Glucose From 
Dioxyacetone in the Diabetic Organism. A. J. Ringer and E. M. Frankel, Jour. 
Biol. Chem., xviii, 1914, no. 2, pp. 233-236. 

Newer Points of View Regarding the Part Played By Different Food Substances 
YD Nutrition. L. B. Mendel, Jour. Am. Med. Assn., Ixiii, 1914, no. 10, pp. 819- 
823. 

Intermrdiary Protein Metabolism. O. Folin, Jour. Am. Med. Assn., Ixiii, 1914, 
no. 10, pp. 823, 824. 

The Fate of /-Alanine in the Glycosuria Organism. H. D. Dakin and H. W. 
Dudley, Jour. Biol. Chem., xvii, 1914, no. 4, pp. 451-454. 

Hygiene and Sanitation 

Bacteriology of the Hen Egg. I. F. Rettger, Conn. Storrs Sta. Bui. 76, 1914, PP- 
191-213. 

Copper Balance in Seven Experimental Subjects to Determine the Effect of 
Eating Coppered Vegetables. C. L. A. Schmidt, Jour. Am. Chem. Soc., xxxvi, 
1914, no. I, pp. 132-136. 

The Summer Care of Infants. W. C. Rucker and C. C. Pierce, Pub. Health 
Rpts. [U. S.], 1914, sup. 16, pp. 15. 

A Further Study of Dental Caries. A. P. Lothrop and W. J. Gies, Jour. Allied 
Denial Socs., viii, 1914, pp. 283-328; abs. Biocliem. Bui. iii, 1914, no. 10, p. 312. 

The Intestinal Flora of Infants and Young Children. W. R. Logan, Jour. 
Pathol, and Bacteriol., xviii, 1914, no. 4, p. 527. 

Meat Hygiene in the United States — Its Value and Scope. W. H. Lipman, 
Modern Hosp., iii, 1914, no. 3, p. 141. 



490 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

Gaseous Impurities in the Air of Railway Tunnels. A. Seidell and P. W. Meserve, 
Pub. Health Service, U. S. Hyg. Lab. Bui. 92, 1914, pp. 47. 

Ability of Streptococci to Survive Pasteurization. S. H. Ayres and W. T. 
Johnson, Jr., Jour. Agr. Research, ii, 1914, no. 4, pp. 321-330. 

Sanitary Survey of Indiana Industries Employing Woman Labor. M. J. White, 
Pub. Health Rpts. [U. S.], 1914, sup. 17, pp. 44. 

Indoor Tropics. The Injurious Efifect of Overheated Dwellings, Schools, Etc. 
J. M. Eager, Pub. Health Rpts. [U. S.], 1913, sup. 2, pp. 8. 

Chemical Notes on Ventilation. P. N. Evans, Proc. Ind. Acad. Sci., 1911, 
pp. 55-60; Gendhts. Ingen., xxxvi, 1913, no. 36, pp. 669-671; abs. Expt. Sta. Rec, 
XXX, 1914, no. 6, p. 563. 

Typhoid Bacillus Carriers. S. L. Gabby, Inst. Quart., iv, 1913, no. 4, pp. 31-35, 
table I. (A paper with discussion tracing an epidemic of typhoid to a domestic 
servant as carrier.) 

Rat Proofing. Its Practical Application in the Construction or Repair of 
Dwellings or Other Buildings. F. Simpson, Pub. Health Rpts. [U. S.], xxviii, 1913, 
no. 15, pp. 679-687, figs. 20. 

Miscellaneous 

Natural and Artificial Silk. Beucke and £. Collin, Ann. Falsi/., vi, 1913, no. 
54, pp. 187-200. (Origin, physical and chemical properties, and other questions 
are considered in this summary and digest of data.) 

Hemp. L. H. Dewey, U. S. Dept. Agr., Separate 628, Yearbook 1913, pp. 283- 
346. 

Prairie Style of Art on the Farm. W. Miller, Breeder's Gaz., Ixv, 1914, no. 25, 
pp. 1247, 1248. 

Chemistry of the Bleaching of Cotton Cloth. J. C. Hebden, Jour. Indus, and 
Eng. Ghent., vi, 1914, no. 9, pp. 714-720. 

Shoddy and Carbonized Waste. L. J. Matos, Jour. Indus, artd Eng. Ghent., 
vi, 1914, no. 9, pp. 765-767- 

The Farm Kitchen as a Workshop. Anna Barrows, U. S. Dept. Agr., Farmers' 
Bui. 607, 1914, pp. 20. 

Tests of the Waste, Tensile Strength, and Bleaching Qualities of the Different 
Grades of Cotton as Standardized by the United States Government. N. A. Cobb, 
V . S. Dept. Agr. Bui. 62, 1914, pp. 8. 

An Investigation into the Chemistry of Laundering. W. F. Faragher, Jour. 
Indus, and Eng. Ghent., vi, 1914, no. 8, pp. 640-648. 

Dietary Department of Johns Hopkins Hospital. A. P. Atwood, Mod. Hosp., 
ii, 1914, no. 5. 

Manufacture of Unfermented Grape Juice in California. W. V. Cruess and C. J. 
Hintze, Jour. Indus, and Eng. Ghent., vi, 1914, no. 4, pp. 302-304. 

Enzymes as Synthetic Agents. II. In Protein Metabolism [In Plants]. J. H. 
Priestley, Sci. Prog., viii, 1914, no. 31, pp. 482-496. 

Differences in Plant and Animal Life. F. Carrel, Sci. Prog., viii, 1914, no. 31, 
pp. 511-518. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 

Any book or periodical mentioned in this department may be obtained through 
the Journal of Home Economics at the price listed. 

The Care of the Child. By Nathan Oppenheim. New York: The Macmillan 
Company, pp. 308. $1.25. By mail of the Journal, $1.32. 

This book gives simple and straightforward directions for the care of the child. 
The aim is to impress the mother with her responsibility in the physical develop- 
ment of her child. "The cry, 'Give us labor,' is right," he says, "for no one can 
live without work and enough work. But let us beware lest we look far off for this 
opportunity to expend our energy and develop our character, while we are unmind- 
ful of the opportunities which lie immediately before us — 'Give us labor' is a good 
enough cry, but 'Let us do better the labor that is within our hands,' is a better." 

Following this introduction are chapters on the various phases of the physical 
development of the child, one chapter on the education of the child, and a chapter 
on the relation of parents to children. In all these chapters the subject is treated 
in such a way as to give the unthinking woman a realization of the importance of her 
work, and at the same time to give much useful information to the mother seeking it. 
This information is not given in the dogmatic way so often employed in such 
books, but the reasons are given in a simple and interesting manner. 

This is a book which can be recommended to the young mother on account of the 
simple, straightforward treatment of the subject, and the breadth of interest it gives 
to the discussions. Since this edition was published in 1910 some of the latest 
theories along the different lines are not incorporated. Especially is this notice- 
able in the chapter on feeding. On page 86 there is an evident misprint in the state- 
ment, "An alkaline milk will change blue litmus paper red." Since the whole 
subject of infant feeding is so important and there have been so many recent ad- 
vances along this line, it is hoped that at least this portion of the book will be revised 
and brought up to date. 

The Development of the Child. By Nathan Oppenheim. New York: The Mac- 
millan Company, 1913, pp. 296. $1.25. By mail of the Journal, $1.35. 

This is a companion book to the above. It takes up the discussion of the mental 
development of the child. Starting out with a biological discussion of the com- 
parative development of the child, and a discussion of the comparative importance 
of heredity and environment, the author follows these by a discussion of the different 
factors of importance in the child's environment and the effect they have upon the 
mental, moral and social development of the child. The whole book tends to em- 
phasize the importance of training and the right of every child not only to the best 
physical care but also to the development of his better self which can come only 
through the different social agencies, the school, the church, institutional life, society 
at large, and, most important of all, the home. 

491 



492 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

The real point of the whole book might be considered the discussion of the right 
of every child to a normal home life, and the value of such life in the training and 
development of the child. 

The last chapter discusses the responsibilities of women as mothers and makes a 
plea for their training for this important duty. It contains an interesting compari- 
son of the education planned to decorate a woman, with that planned to fit her for 
the profession which the majority of women pursue. 

The Human Body and its Enemies. By Cari Hartman and Lewis Bibb, M.D. 
Yonkers-on-Hudson, N. Y.: Worid Book Company, pp. 350. $0.65. By mail 
of the Journal, $0.75. 

First Book of Health. By Carl Hartman and Lewis Bibb, M.D. Yonkers-on- 
Hudson, N. Y.: World Book Company. $0.35. By mail of the Journal, $0.40. 

"The Human Body and its Enemies" is a book treating of physiology, hygiene 
and sanitation for "pupils in the lower grades." It is written by a professor of 
zoology and a physician in Texas, and contains many local references; yet most 
of what is said would apply anywhere, particularly in rural sections. It is an inter- 
esting and for the most part successful attempt to popularize a great body of applied 
science. It is ambitious in scope; it treats, among many other things, of the struc- 
ture of cereal grains, and of home-made ice boxes; of diphtheria carriers, and of the 
tsetse fly; of peristalsis, and of sanitary milk production; of the manufacture of 
vaccines and antitoxins, and of the formation of the retinal image; of meningitis 
and pellegra, of soap leaves, and adjustable school seats; of the cuts of beef, and of 
the reactions of a frog without a cerebellum; of the causes of swell-heads in canned 
vegetables, and of the structure of uriniferous tubules. All this constitutes rather 
a large contract for the dispensing of information, yet the book seems for the most 
part accurate and up-to-date in its statements, particularly so when dealing with 
the subject matter of bacteriology, microbiology, and personal hygiene. Treat- 
ment of physiological material is not always quite so fortunate in this respect, and 
there are a few unhappy misstatements, from the twentieth century point of view; 
for example, the time-honored but now antiquated explanations for the necessity 
of ventilation, the description of methods said to result in sufficient humidity of 
indoor air, the incomplete tabulation of the various digestive enz>Tnes and their 
action. But the great value of the book, as the present writer sees it, is in its illum- 
inating and exceedingly practical and concrete treatment of the many and various 
subjects presented. Many apparently involved details are so clearly explained 
and shown to be so exceedingly important in their bearing upon everyday conduct, 
that it would seem the book cannot fail to do much good. Moreover, the glittering 
generality so commonly found in books on hygiene has been replaced very largely 
by precise scientific data, actual statistics, and practical formulae; for example, 
under disinfectants, we have, besides the usual naterial (value of sunlight, soap 
and water, boiling temperature, etc.), also a table showing how long it takes given 
strengths of solutions of boric a^^id, carbolic acid, and corrosive sublirrate, to de- 
stroy pus germs, typhoid baciUi, and anthrax spores; also explicit directions for the 
permanganate-and-forma'dehyde method of disinfecting a room. 

The iUustrations are nurr.erous and original; rrany of them are excellent, both 
fiom the scientific and from the practical teaching point of view; a few seem some- 



1914] Books and Literature 493 

what superfluous. The domestic science teacher will perhaps wonder why the milk 
bottles in the open refrigerator shown, could not have been placed on the bottom 
shelf! 

In the opinion of the reviewer, who has had a considerable teaching experience 
in public schools, the book might be used as a supplementary text or reader in the 
upper grammar grades, although pedagogically the arrangement of subject matter 
is unfortunate in some respects, as all the physiology is placed in the latter half of 
the book; for example, it is a little difficult to explain intestinal infections if pupils 
have no clear idea as to what and where the intestines may be. A further objection 
not difficult to forsee is, that much of the subject matter would be unfamiliar to 
teachers, for not even among high school teachers of physiology can we assume a 
knowledge of bacteriology. However, let us hope that this is an objection which 
will in time be removed, and that the thorough training in microbiology 
required of domestic science teachers will open the way toward more general 
requirements for other science teachers. 

"The First Book of Health" contains some of the same subject matter in still 
simpler form, for younger children — those perhaps of the fourth grammar grade. 

Training the Girl. By William A. McKeever. New York: The Macmillan 

Company, 1914, pp. 432. $1.50. By mail of the Journal, $1.62. 

This is a companion volume to the recently published Training the Boy by the 
same author. It is equally readable and suggestive. Clothes for the girl. When 
is a girl ready to marry, Marks of a worthy young man. Motherhood, The attain- 
ment of peace and poise, are topics whose discussion may easily drop from the good 
to the "goody-good." But the author has kept his discussion on a plane of common- 
sense, and his remarks and conclusions are wholesome and stimulating. 

The book is divided into four parts: Industrial Training; Social Training, 
Vocational Training, and Serv^ice Training. As stated in the preface, the author 
attempts to offer a plan for "whole life" girl training. 

Industrial Training, as treated, gives to the term "industrial' a meaning quite 
different fiom that which has come to be attached to the word as used in recent 
discussions of industrial education. It covers the home opportunities and duties 
for educative work, and the school training from kindergarten to college. A very 
helpful chapter is devoted to "Home and school cooperations." Throughout this 
part of the book, emphasis is laid upon the forms of participation, in which the girl 
may engage at various stages of her development, which tend to make her efficient 
as a member of society and as a home maker. It is worth while to have it 
repeated again and again in some form that character is a product of one's own 
efforts and that it can be developed in neither girls nor boys without a reason- 
able amount of real work. 

Social Training includes chapters on Play, The psychology of the girl's clothes, 
Vacations, the Camp Fire girls, Social activities, and The girl and the sex problem. 
Parties, going with the boys, teaching the girl about herself, and other equally 
troublesome problems to many parents are discusssed with a conservative liberality 
which will help many and offend none. 

Vocational Training contains six chapters in which are discussed the double 
vocational problem for many women — that of home making considered as funda- 
mental for all, and that of independent, self-support confronting so many and a 
contingency which circumstances may enforce upon any. 



494 ^^ Journal of Home Economics [December 

Id the final part of the book under Service Training, six chapters treat of the girl's 
education and training in serving others — in the home, through opportunities of 
religious organizations, through participation in other organizations for civic and 
social betterment, and through the everyday activities of the common life. 

Throughout the book there breathes the spirit of democracy. Secret societies 
in the high school are condemned as endangering the girl's attitude through a period 
when the cultivation of sympathies and ideals should be broad and inclusive. The 
dangers of narrowness and snobbishness in college sororities lead the author to advise 
against them also. 

Thirty-seven well chosen illustrations add to the attractiveness of the book, 
and a well organized table of contents and an index make possible quick and accurate 
reference to any topic discussed. 

The book is suggestive and wholesome. It should be helpful to parents and 
teachers or any others engaged in the direction and leadership of girls and young 
women. 

Vocations for Girls. By E.W. Weaver. NewYork:A.S. Barnes Company, 1913, 

pp. 200. $0.75. By mail of the Journal, $0.80. 

The first chapter of this book contains an exhaustive list of vocations open to 
the girl with limited education, covering commercial, industrial, artistic and pro- 
fessional fields. Accompanying the list is the wholesome advice that the girl who 
reads should consider first of all those occupations open to her in her own town. 

The book is simply written, rather in the form of a textbook, each chapter being 
followed by practical exercises, questions for debate, topics for study and research, 
and an index of vocational literature. At the end is given, alphabetically, a list 
of possible occupations, and a cross reference list of schools in New York offering 
special training for women. While the book as a whole advances no essentially 
new ideas, it deals with an interesting subject in a very logical and readable way. 

Vocations for Girls. By Mary A. Laselle and Katherine E. Wiley. Boston: 
Houghton, Mifflin Company, 1913, pp. 139. $0.85. By mail of the Journal, 
$0.92. 

This book, written by two teachers in a large high school, contains much advisory 
material both for the girl choosing a vocation and for those concerned in helping 
her to make the choice. 

Many possibilities, from domestic service and factory work to teaching and the 
library, are discussed, the advantages and disadvantages of each being impartially 
reviewed. 

Although the book is primarily written for the girl who cannot afford a long and 
expensive education, the importance of a soimd educational basis for any vocation 
is emphasized. A plea is made that the school curriculum should provide a truer 
adjustment to contemporary life, should offer to each individual girl opportunity 
to develop her natural bent. 

Young Working Girls. By Robert A. Woods and Albert I. Kennedy. Boston: 
Houghton, Mifflin Company, 1913, pp. 185. $1.00. By mail of the Jour- 
nal, $1.08. 

This most interesting little book deals with the many sided problem of the ado- 
lescent girl of the tenement house, factory and department store. 



1 9 14] Books and Literature 495 

It is a composite statement of facts gleaned by two thousand social workers in 
twenty different cities, and represents the first cooperative work of the National 
Federation of Settlements, formed in 191 1. 

The first five chapters deal with the girl as she is, handicapped by her environ- 
ment and her inadequate home life, lacking in ideals, constantly drawn by her 
natural love of pleasure and display into paths of temptation and moral danger. 

The remaining nine chapters, while they do not attempt an actual solution of 
the problem presented, lay down principles for a possible course of procedure and 
point to the settlement as the logical source of assistance. 

The book will appeal not alone to those actively engaged in philanthropic work, 
but to every one whose social conscience has been awakened to a sense of responsi- 
bility. 

A Model Housing Law. By Lawrence Veiller. New York : Survey Associates, 
1914, pp. 343. $2.00 postpaid. 

To the worker for better social conditions in whatever field, there must come, 
sooner or later, the realization that he is struggling with a problem of wide ramifi- 
cations and of definite relation to organic laws, and that his problem will always 
remain unsolved and the difiiculties remain insurmountable vmtil he has the assist- 
ance of the law and, what is more, the sympathetic interpretation of the law. 

It has been said that in the United States more than half the public offices, nearly 
sixty per cent, in fact, are filled by lawyers or men of legal training, and that the 
reason Germany has better social and economic laws is because of the much smaller 
percentage of offices filled by men of legal training. 

Laws to be effective must serve specific needs and should therefore be the work 
of specialists, not of the advocate, for the law is not the end but merely the means 
to an end. 

Such a book as is presented in "A Model Housing Law" must be of inestimable 
value and service to those seeking for improved conditions for commvmity living, 
than which there can be no more vital question. The value of this work lies not 
in the fact that it is perfect in all its deductions, or that it presents a ready-to-hand 
law that will fit every or any case, but that in concise form it gives us at once the 
ideas and conceptions of a trained man and an expert, and his faithful collaboration 
of the things worth while in existing laws. It should save many hours of study 
for the individual, committee or commission engaged in the work of improved 
housing. 

Good housing for the poor can never be practically accomplished save by ade- 
quate housing laws, for, while the building of a few model houses, subsidized possibly 
in part, here and there throughout a community may help to make possible the wiping 
out of a slxmi, and to inspire a few with the desire for better living, yet it is the 
plain duty of any city or town to prevent the occupation of buildings unfit as well 
as to prevent the erection of those that may become imfit, and to so plan the city 
block as to encourage and make possible the types of houses serving best the needs 
of its own people. 

Housing and city planning can never be disassociated, nor can either be sure 
of accomplishment save by intelligent laws dealing directly with the ends sought. 
Mr. Veiller points the way most authoritively. 



496 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

A Survey of the Woman Problem. By Rosa Mayreder. New York: George H. 

Doran Company, pp. 275. $1.50. By mail of the Journal, $1.62. 

An essential for interest in further literature on this subject is well met in the new 
form of treatment which this book presents. Not wholly in agreement with the 
Woman's Movement the author regards it, nevertheless, "as one of the phenomena 
which honorably distinguish the present epoch from all previous periods of history; 
nay, more, it seems to be one of the finest manifestations of an epoch which other- 
wise, in its poverty of ideals, of noble feelmgs, and of passionate beliefs, betrays 
evidence of degeneration." 

As the most widely diverse assertions are quoted one after the other, one is 
forced to accept the author's statement that "from whatever point of view we may 
consider the problems that relate to women we are certain to encounter something 
hopelessly contradictory. Nowhere else do such extreme antitheses lie so closely 
parallel to one another." 

The treatment of the subject is far from a superficial or simple one. The vigorous 
style and logical reasoning as well as intimate knowledge of a large number of author- 
ities reveals the characteristics of the German student. The nature of the argu- 
ments are from the ethical-psychological standpoint rather than the political, the 
economic or the social. While recognition is given the fact that the movement 
has become a practical one through the economic revolution, emphasis is placed 
upon its idealistic rather than materialistic origin and that "whatever vantage 
ground woman may gain through economic betterment will avail little toward her 
freedom unless quite other influences begin to operate in her favor." While de- 
ploring the present limitations of sex, both male and female, there is no note of pes- 
simism in the work, but, rather, the assertion that, "If we trace the lines of the past 
which lead forward into the future, we find in immistakable outlines the ideal of a 
himianity in which sex has a better and happier significance than it has hitherto 
possessed." 

The nature of the best and most suggestive portions of the book may be realized 
from such striking sentences as the following, which, together with its admirable, 
if lengthy, historical survey of the subject, make a book well worth careful reading. 

"We shall be able to know what women are only when we no longer dictate to 
them what they should be." 

"The bicycle has done moie for the emancipation of woman than all the strivings 
of the entire Woman's Movement taken together." 

Practical Dietetics. By Alida Frances Pattee. Mt. Vernon, N. Y.: A. F. 

Pattee, 8th edition, pp. 475. $1.50. With Handbag Diet Book, $1.75. 

This book is excellently planned for the nurse's use by one who understands the 
nurse's needs. It contains up-to-date theory and well tried recipes. It is not too 
technical for a beginner, and puts in clear words the theories necessary for the imder- 
standing of the food problem. Altogether it seems to be a very comprehensive vol- 
ume but small enough for the trained nurse to slip into her bag in going to a "case." 
A great variety of foods are represented which are suitable for all kinds of invalid diet 
and the total energy value of most, if not all, have been given. This wiU be useful 
in computing the total values of food combinations and in calculating amoimts of 
protein, fat and carbohydrate in any dietary whenever required, without the tedious 
mathematical process usually involved. Part III is also of interest to the trained 



1914] Books and Literature 497 

nurse as it gives both general and special diets used in many hospitals. Quota- 
tions from well known writers are to be found under the titles of various diseases 
which give the dietetic treatment. The chapter on Infant Feeding Is somewhat 
antequated. The book continues with the diet of young children, the diet during 
adolesence and old age. The state board examination questions are useful for 
the nurse studying for her examination. 

Food as Body Fuel. By H. P. Armsby. Pennsylvania Sla. Bui. 126, 1913, Pp- 

59-68. 

The animal as a prime motor, energy, transformations in the body, and the origin 
of animal heat, are discussed and a brief summary is given of the author's investi- 
tions and the work of others which has to do with these questions. 

The results presented, he concludes, may be taken "as demonstrating that the 
animal heat arises exclusively from the combustions in the body, but they have a 
much broader significance. They show that the transformations of chemical 
energy into heat and work in the animal body take place according to the same 
general laws and with the same equivalencies as in our artificial motors and in life- 
less matter generally. The great law of the conserx^ation of energy rules in the 
animal mechanism, whether in man, camivora or heribvora, just as in the engine. 
The body neither manufactures nor destroys energy. All that it gives out it gets 
from its food and all that is supplied in its food is sooner or later recovered in some 
form. We are fully justified, therefore, in speaking of the food as body fuel, and in 
our studies of its utilization we may be confident that any food energy which does 
not reappear in the form of heat or work has not been lost but has been stored up 
in the body as the chemical energy of meat, fat, etc., which may later serve to supply 
food energy to the human body when consumed as food by man." 

Candies and Bon Bons and How to Make Them. By Marion H. Neil. Phila- 
delphia: David McKay, 1913, pp. 287. $1. By mail of the Journal, $1.10. 
The aim of this book as stated by the author is, "To satisfy the increasing demand 
for a practical book on making candy and bon bons." She follows this by the state- 
ment, "Experience has proved the reliability of all the recipes and in every case I 
have striven to put the matter in as plain a form as possible." 

The book contains chapters on utensils for candy making; materials used; tables, 
weights and measures; preparation hints; and numerous recipes. Only a very 
small proportion of the space is devoted to any theoretical discussion. The follow- 
ing quotations may be taken as indicative of the character of such discussions. 
"Parents do their children a great injury by denying good, pure candy. The child 
requires a large amount of sugar, for sugar assists in the processes of growth as no 
other food element can possibly do. Children of an older growth, too, require a 
proper amount of good, pure sugar candy. For these white crystals feed the ever 
burning flame of the body supplying animal heat which is life and arousing the 
nervous energies, in some cases even better than phosphates." (Page 20). "Glu- 
cose or starch sugar is made from com starch, which is as natural a product 
as cane sugar. It is prepared by the action of a dilute solution upon com starch." 
(Page 21). 

The statement, "Cream of tartar or taitaric acid may take the place of glucose 
in some recipes, as they also tend to prevent granulation," on page 21 is followed by 



498 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

further explanation. On page 79 we find the statement, "WTien the syrup first 
boils add the glucose or the cream of tartar; this cuts the grain, somewhat reduces 
the stiength of the sugar, and helps to keep it creamy and soft." There seems to 
be no very good reason for her dogmatic statement on page 81 that glucose should 
be added after the sugar is dissolved. 

The recipes are not very well organized. This means more elaboration of detail 
and repetition than would otherwise be necessary. We find the same brittle candy 
repeated six times under six different names. The only change being in two cases 
peanuts were used instead of almonds, in one case confectioner's sugar was used 
which is more expensive but does not give any different results from the granulated 
sugar, and in another case lump sugar was used which certainly would be more 
difficidt to handle and more expensive, and is only a survival of the time when 
loaf sugar was less likely to be adulterated than other kinds. These recipes are: 
chocolate nugatine, page 71; nougat paste, page loi; caramel nougat, page 95; 
peanut taffy, page 160; French candy, page 180; peanut cracker, page 255. Other 
similar forms of repetition coidd be noted. 

The details of the experiment are not always accurately stated. On page 71 
honey alone is put in a saucepan and stirred until dissolved. On page 26 the author 
speaks of melting sugar in water. Cream of tartar is frequently added in pinches 
rather than being measured. 

We would question the necessity for some of the details given in the recipes. 
Page 197, lemon juice and soda are dissolved in boiling water and then added. 
Page 198, tartaric acid is used but is not added until after the candy is done. Unless 
used for flavor what function does this acid perform here? In several recipes a 
teaspoonful of glucose is called for, in many cases being used in connection with 
some other kind of syrup. Page 255, sugar is called for twice. Page 143, the butter 
is divided into three portions and added at three different temperatures. Lump 
sugar is frequently called for. Is there any advantage in this? 

This book is suggestive in offering different ways and combinations for mak- 
ing candy. The reader may judge of its value and accuracy from the above 
quotations. 

Around-the-World Cook Book. By Mary Louise Barroll. New York: The 
Century Company, pp. 360. $1.50. By mail of the Journal, $1.62. 
The housewife of today will find in this book a valuable addition to her culinary 
library. The casual observer is much disappointed in looking through the book 
to find an entire absence of illustrations so commonly used in similar publications. 
Its pages are replete with compilations of recipes which cover a wide range of cookery 
and are suggestive and stimulating. As no standard measurements are maintained 
throughout the work it is a more helpful guide to the experienced than to the inex- 
perienced. 

The American Cook Book. By Janet McKenzie Hill. Boston: Boston Cooking 
School Magazine Company, 1914, pp. 8 -f- 255, pis. 16. $1. By mail of the 
Journal, $1.10. 

A large number of recipes are brought together for preparing meat, fish, fruits, 
vegetables, and other foods for the table. The author points out that in the case 
of recipes "it is well to note the essentials and the nonessentials that make up its 



1 914] Books and Literature 499 

content. Nonessentials are usually added for variety in flavor or appearance, 
and if not agreeable may be eliminated without detriment to the dish; at the same 
time let no one forget that flavor in food is a prime requisite and it must be brought 
out or retained in the viand as the case may demand." 

Cooking Notes for Voluntary Aid Cooks. By Miss B. H. Davy. Exeter: M. A. 

Rudd and Son, 1913, pp.90, i shilling. Reviewed in Brit. Med. Joum., 1913, 

no. 2739, pp. 1372-1373- 

Cooking for large numbers with limited equipment, British Army requirements 
for training of cooks, cooking problems, and related questions are discussed and 
recipes are given. The reviewer states that the book is useful for yachtsmen, 
campers, etc., as well as for the special purpose for which it is designed. 

Simple Garments for Children (from 4 to 14). By M. B. Lynge. London and 

New York: Longmans, Green and Company, 1913, pp. xvi -|- 47, patterns 10, pis. 

6. $1.25. By mail of the Journal, $1.30. 

This is a book written with the purp)ose of teaching methods of making hygienic 
clothing for children. Its plea is against the number of weighty garments worn by 
children. The book is not intended for the use of beginners, but rather for those who 
have a knowledge of sewing. It contains a set of patterns for use in cutting the 
garments suggested in its pages, and also directions for knitting undergarments, 
jerseys, stockings, etc. 

As a practical guide to workers in this country, the book has little value. Ma- 
chine-made, knitted underwear, inexpensive, of good shape, and bearing the Con- 
simiers' League label would be urged upon the busy mothers rather than additional 
hours of labor spent in knitting. 

The making of other garments has its strong appeal, but the patterns furnished 
are not fully explained, and the methods of making are incomplete. 

A Study of the Foot and Foot Wear. ByF. W. Weed. Military Surg., 30, 1912, 

No 2, pp. 170-211, figs. 23. 

Though written with special reference to military requirements, this article pre- 
sents a large amount of information of general interest with reference to the struc- 
ture of the foot, determining the requirements for foot wear, and similar topics. 

According to the author's deductions and conclusions, the strength of a foot varies 
in proportion to the potentiality of the supinator group of muscles. Weakness in a 
foot may be prevented by proper exercises and foot wear, while incipient foot weak- 
ness may be accurately determined by means of proper apparatus such as is de- 
scribed in the article. A poorly fitting stocking, that is, one which is too tight, 
is almost as productive of bad effects as is a small shoe. "The most common di- 
rect results are ingrown nail and hallux valgus, though crumpled toes may be due 
in large part to too short a stocking and it may contribute to the more serious 
effects of a narrow shoe. . . 

"A foot measuring lof inches in length and 3I inches in width can not wear a 
stocking under size 11 without there being a constant tendency to the production of 
ingrown nail, hallux valgus, cnmipled toes, etc The thicker the stock- 
ing, the greater the degree of compression on the foot, naturally, so this remark 
applies particularly to the thicker stockings used in marching." 

i DEPARTWE^T| 
hCLbLhOLD SCiEWCl!; 



500 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

"The style or contour of a shoe should be so designed that its effects on the foot 
for which it is intended will be least harmful. The contour of a shoe which is rec- 
ommended for army wear should conform to basic principles, summed up as follows: 

"The inside line of the forward part of the shoe should form a straight line, or 
one approximately so. The inward twist at the shank should not be too great, how- 
ever, else corns are apt to develop on the smaller toes. There should be an abund- 
ance of room across the ball of the foot. 

"The sole should be flat across, to preserve a secure foundation for the foot, but 
may have a slight upward curve at its forward end to prevent the toe catching in 
imevenly raised places on the walking surface. 

"The heel, when it is indispensable, as in the military service, should be low, 
broad, long and flat. 

"The fit of a shoe is correlative to its contour. Pressure on the forefoot results 
in a pathological weakening of the mechanism, varying in proportion to inter- 
mittency and amount, more especially when there are other contributing influences. 
The best efforts of a foot can not be put forth when its intrinsic muscles are inactive 
from pressure atrophy. At the same time, a shoe to be of any service or comfort, 
must be so fitted, that when in motion, there will be a minimum of friction between 
the foot and shoe. 

" Stability may be attained by a dose fit back of the mid-tarsus, where lateral pres- 
sure at the heel, and from the heel, forward and upward to the front of the ankle 
joint, and around the ankle, will have no undue influence on the integrity of the 
foot. " 

A bibliography is appended to the article. 

BOOKS RECEIVED 

Household Physics. By Alfred M. Butler. Boston: WTiitcomb & Barrows* 
1914. Pp. 382. $1.30. By mail of the Journal, $1.42. 

Physics of the Household. By Carlton Lynde. New York: The Macmillan 
Company. 1914. Pp. 313. $1.25. By mail of the Journal, $1.40. 

Elementary Household Chemistry. By J. F. Snell. New York: The Mac- 
millan Company. 1914. Pp. 307. $1.25. By mail of the Journal, $1.40. 

General Chemistry. By Lyman C. Newell. New York: D. C. Heath & Com- 
pany. 1914. Pp. 584. $1.20. By mail of the Journal, $1.30. 

Source Chemistry and Use of Food Products. By E. H. Bailey. Philadel- 
phia: P. Blakiston's Sons and Company. 1914. Pp. 517. $1.60. By mail 
of the Journal, $1.80. 

Experimental Domestic Science. By R. H. Jones. Philadelphia: J. P. Lip- 
pincott Company. Pp. 235. $0.80. By mail of the Journal, $0.88. 

Domestic Science Principles and Application. By Pearl Bailey. St. Paul: 
Webb Publishing Company. 1914. Pp. 343. $1. By mail of the Journal, 
$1.12. 

Principles of Cooking. By Emma Conley. New York: American Book Com- 
pany. 1914. Pp. 206. $0.52. By mail of the Journal $0.60. 

The Work-a-day Girl. By Clara E.Laughlin. New York: Fleming H. Revel! 
Company. 1913. Pp. 320. $1.50. By mail of the Journal, $1.65. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 

The Michigan Home Economics Association. The Association met Friday, 
October 30, in Kalamazoo, Michigan. 

Miss Blackman, of the State Ngrmal College, Ypsilanti, sf)oke on "Practical 
Household Management in the Elementary and High Schools." 

Dean Georgia L. White of Michigan Agricultural College spoke on "The Modem 
Home." 

Miss Martha Van Rensselaer, President of the National Home Economics Asso- 
ciation, gave the address of the afternoon. 

After this program the armual business meeting was held. 

Washington, D.C., Home Economics Association. The regular meeting of 
the Association was held on Tuesday, October 6, at the Public Library. Miss 
Julia Lathrop was scheduled to speak at the meeting, but was unable to do so. 

The meeting opened with the leading of the minutes, and the reports. Follow- 
ing this was a discussion regarding the work to be undertaken during the year, 
and the subjects which would be of most general interest. The opinions of the 
individual members are to be ascertained before definite plans are made. 

Miss Emma S. Jacobs was appointed chairman of a committee, whose duty is to 
assist, in such ways as may be desired, one of the district nurses in the city. 

The Home Economics Association of Greater New York. In response to a 
request from Mr. Routzhan, who represents the Russell Sage Foundation, an effort 
is being made to assemble illustrative material for teaching household arts subjects, 
this to be available as a permanent exhibit. It is Mr. Routzhan's purpose that this 
material be so arranged that it could be easily sent from place to place for the use 
of schools, colleges, and other institutions. The President appointed the follow- 
ing committees representing the various phases of household arts work: Miss 
Anna Barrows, Chairman; Miss Helen L. Johnson and Miss Emma Gunther, 
Administration; Miss Margaret McGowin and Miss Laura I. Baldt, Domestic 
Art; Miss Elizabeth Condit and Miss Fannie Perkins, Domestic Science. 

Mr. John Purroy Mitchel, Mayor of New York, has appointed a committee 
now known as the "Mayor's Food Committee." The members of this group have 
been very active in their efforts to lower the cost of living, first, by establishing sev- 
eral municipal markets; second, by educating the public through printed leaflets; 
third, by securing the cooperation of the schools. 

The Home Economics Association of Greater New York asked the Mayor for a 
speaker for October 29 in order that the teachers may cooperate most wisely in 
this work. 

The Home Economics Association of Philadelphia. The first meeting in the 
fall was held at the William Penn High School, and took the form of a social meeting. 
Mr. Frazee, the superintendent of vocational education in the Philadelphia public 
schook, gave the address. 



502 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

The executive committee laid before the society the plans for the study classes 
for the winter. Miss Winslow, of Columbia University, will lead these classes, 
one on the Budget, the other on Nutrition. They will meet every other week for 
a course of ten lectures and discussions. A class in dietetics with laboratory work 
will be formed, if there is suf&cient call for it. It will be taught by Miss Hannah 
Hill, instructor at Drexel Institute. 

An effort is being made to extend the work and sphere of influence of the associa- 
tion, that all who are interested in the development of the home and the city may 
share in this unequalled opportunity which the association has opened for us by its 
winter plans. 

South Carolina Home Economics Association. This association which was 
organized last March has outlined for its first year's work the plarming of Home Eco- 
nomics courses for the schools of the state, and then trying to get the state board of 
education to accept these courses. It is hoped in this way to unify the work. 

The need of a state supervisor in Home Economics is felt and it is possible that 
one may be sectu-ed through the efforts of this association. 

Miss Mary B. McGowan, the Secretary, has just been promoted to the position 
of Head of the Domestic Science Department of Winthrop College, Rock Hill, S. C. 

Teachers College, Columbia University. Mrs. Grace Hitchings Buckner, 
instructor in costume design in the department of household arts, Teachers College, 
spent the month of June in the famous dressmaking establishment of Worth in 
Paris, securing special practice in design. A year or two ago Mr. Jacques Worth 
visited the School of Practical Arts, Teachers CoUege, addressed the students and 
became interested in Mrs. Buckner's work in costume design. As a result he 
opened the way for Mrs. Buckner to enjoy the unique opportunity of working 
in the famous Paris establishment. 

Extension Schools in Home Economics. Among its other interests, the 
Department of Home Economics at the New York State College of Agriculture has 
provided about thirty extension schools in Home Economics dxiring the college 
year 1913-1914. 

Miss Miriam Birdseye has been employed by the college to present the work in 
Home Economics continuously from December i to April i. In addition, regular 
members of the staff have visited these schools when there was an unusual demand 
for lectures in any one week. The value of the schools is in the presentation of 
definite instruction for a continuous time, which is better than the occasional lecture. 

Continuation Classes of Montclair, N. J. Perhaps the most striking instance 
of continuation classes in household arts for home women is the group of short courses 
instituted by the public schools of Montclair, New Jersey, organized in 1913-1914, 
which were attended by upwards of 200 women. They were held in the public 
school laboratories and were taught by the regular teachers of household arts who 
received extra compensation for this service (one-half of which under the provi- 
sions of the New Jersey Industrial Education Law was returned to the commimity 
by a state grant). The courses were given at 3.30 or 4.15 o'clock in the afternoon 
and one evening course was arranged at 7.30. The members of the classes limited 
to 20 except in one lecture course, paid fees covering only the cost of materials used. 
Ten lessons were given in each of the following : Marketing, with work in cooking; 



1 914] News from the Field 503 

chemistry of food with practical menus; salads and desserts; theory of marketing 
and fireless cooking; bread and rolls; and household routine. The classes are to 
be continued this year and, on the request of the local Housewives League, a class 
for domestic help is to be started, the employers arranging to give their employees 
free time ofT to attend the class. In describing this successful series of courses 
one will note especially their practical character; their organization in "short 
units," each relating to a limited subject; the variety offered to meet various needs; 
the afternoon hour at which they were given as especially favorable for housewives. 

School Credit for Home Work.^ Oklahoma City has recently been added to the 
many cities and towns whose schools give credit for home work. The credits under 
their plan are as follows: Cultural and social credits include reading magazines, 
books, etc., practicing on the piano or organ, glee club work, girls' club work, and 
Boy Scouts' work. A girl may earn forty credits a month for club work and a 
boy fifty credits as a Boy Scout. 

The labor group may win ten points an hour for not more than three hours in 
one day. Here the boys are brought into contact with business and professional 
pursuits. 

The credits for department in school run as high as 200 in a month, and are 
awarded by the high school faculty. The credits for deportment at home may 
reach 100 a month if recommended by the parents. 

Under health, credits are given for sleep, amounting to not less than eight hours 
a day in a well-ventilated room; baths, at least two a week; care of teeth, hands, 
nails, face, hair and clothing. 

Under this plan it is possible for a student to earn 1500 to 1800 credits a month 
outside the regular credits. For every 500 of these outside credits 5 per cent is 
added to the branch of study in which the student has the lowest grades. 

Household and Social Science. ^ Under the name of "Home Science and Eco- 
nomics" a Department of King's College for Women (University of London) has for 
the last six years been venturing a new course in education of University standard. 

From the generosity of private donors £75,000 has already been received, and 
£10,000 has been contributed by a City company. Financial recognition has also 
been given by the Treasury and the London County Council. In the Report of 
the Royal Commission on University Education in London the value of an educa- 
tional opportunity of this kind was fully recognized, and it was recommended that 
as a "Department of Household and Social Science" (a somewhat happier term 
than Home Science and Economics) this course should have a place in the Univer- 
sity. The Departmental Committee having incidentally approved the recommen- 
dation, the Senate has undertaken to accept the whole educational and financial 
responsibility for the department, so soon as a further endowment of £30,000 can 
be collected and the course thereby ensured financial stability. 

A site on Campden Hill having been secured by the University, buildings are 
already in course of erection. Laboratories have been provided by Lord Anglesey, 
while Sir Richard Carton has given a hostel for students, which, by permission of 
the Queen, is to be called Queen Mary's Hostel, and which will be opened by Prin- 

1 For fuller accounts of home credits see Joxtrnal ov HoiiE Economics, 6, 
1914, no. 2, pp. 141-146. 

* From the Morning Post, June 3, 1914. 



504 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

cess Christian on the nth inst. Class-rooms, administrative oflaces, a refectory, 
and so on, will be built directly money is found. 

A course of this kind has infinite possibilities. The household is the unit on 
which are built up many of those problems so easily classed as social and the con- 
sideration of which is occupying all shades of reforming zeal. 

The numerous problems of the day that are roughly classed as "Infant and Child 
Welfare" must eventually form a definite course of study for the student of "House- 
hold and Social Science." 

The first consideration must be to provide an education liberal, inspiring, and 
practically useful, and in making the housewife to make the whole woman capable 
in her immediate surrounding and resourceful as a citizen. 

The whole scheme has so far had to be tentative, if only for economic reasons. 
The sum already subscribed will seem large only to those who know little of the 
amounts necessary to endow teaching and erect suitable accommodation in London. 

The Two-Dish League. ' The Paris gourmets assert that the influx of Americans 
and English who demand five or six courses at a meal is changing the character of 
the restaurants that were famous for one or two special dishes. In the old days 
the boulevardier went to the Cafe Anglais, the Tour d' Argent or the Maison Doree 
for the one dish that was the speciality of each cafe. One excelled in fish, another 
in roast, a third in fowl. 

When M. Joseph Gal tier suggested in the Temps that an association be formed 
of those who would devote themselves to two dishes at a meal, the "Two-Dish 
League" was bom. 

The motto of the league is: "Two dishes, two wines, eight friends." 

"The two dishes served at our dinners will be chef d'oeuvre, wonders of the art of 
cooking known only to our country and worthy of true disciples of Lucullus and of 
Brillat Savarin; our two wines will be the right wines in the right place and handled 
in the proper manner. We hope thereby to bring about the renaissance of this 
great national art." 

Mme. Daniel Leseur, the French writer, says if she had her way every banquet 
or plain dinner, official or private, would be a two-dish afi^air. Henri Duvemois, 
a well-known critic, notes two illustrious authors in support of the two-dish 
scheme, Montaigne and Theophile Gautier. Maurice Rostand, son of the au- 
thor of "Cyrano de Bergerac," submits a menu of his own and would like to 
see the dinner extended to three dishes and a few more friends. 

Windows Open by Law. Paddington, England, somewhat more than a year ago 
obtained the approval of the Local Government Board on the following by-law: 

Except as inhereafter provided for, every lodger in a tenement house shall cause 
every window of every room that has been let to him and is used as a sleeping room 
to be opened and to be kept fully open for at least one hour in each morning and 
afternoon. Provided that the lodger shall not be required to cause any such 
window to be opened or kept open at any time when the state of the weather is such 
as to render it necessary that the window shall be closed, or when any bed in any 
such room is occupied by a sick person to whom such opening of the window would 
prove harmful. 

The penalty of a fine is £5. 

^ From the Baltimore Sun, April 10, 1914. 



1914] News from the Field 505 

Training Vocational Counsellors. In view of the growing interest in the voca- 
tional guidance of boys and girls in the public schools and the consequent need of 
competent trained advisers for this work, the Women's Educational and Industrial 
Union is offering this year a course for vocational counsellors. It is a full-time 
course covering an academic year and will be of a distinctly practical nature. Miss 
Florence M. Jackson, director of the Union's Appointment Bureau and vocational 
counsellor for Smith and Wellcsley Colleges, will have general supervision of the 
course, and Dr. Susan M. Kingsbury professor of economics at Simmons College 
and director of the Department of Research at the Women's Educational and 
Industrial Union, will be in charge of the investigations. Candidates will be chosen 
according to their fitness for the work. Tuition scholarships will be awarded to 
a limited number for the first year, which opened October i. 

The purpose of the course is to provide a knowledge of industry, of methods of 
industrial investigation and use of statistics which form the proper foundation for 
vocational guidance; to supply other training valuable for vocational advisers; 
and to afford a means for the practical application of principles and methods studied. 

The curriculum includes general instruction and also instruction in psychology, 
education, economics, statistical methods, and laws relating to child labor. A study 
will be made of vocational guidance methods in use in the United States and Europe , 
and opportunity will be afforded for observation and practice in the various com- 
mercial and charitable employment agencies in Boston, as well as in the Union's 
vocational bureau. This work will be supplemented by lectures and discussions 
upon the theories of vocational guidance. An important part of the training is 
the direction in industrial and social investigation and in methods of handling and 
interpreting data. 

The course should be of particular value to teachers and social workers. The vo- 
cational activities conducted by the Union, through its department of vocational 
advice and placement, its normal courses in vocational training, its research library, 
and social work departments, give a practical background for such training. The 
Union occupies a foremost place among organizations engaged in vocational work 
for women. And this new undertaking is in line with its other endeavors to broaden 
their educational and industrial opportunities. 

Massachusetts Federation for Rural Progress. The second annual meeting 
of the Massachusetts Federation for Rural Progress was held at the Massachusetts 
Agricultural College, Amherst, Masssachusetts, September 18, 1914. Representa- 
tives from all boards of trade and other organizations interested in seeing county 
agents in every county of the Commonwealth had been invited to be present, aside 
from every organization afhliated with the Federation. 

The general subject for the afternoon was "The Value of the Work of the County 
Agricultural Agents in Developing the Agriculture of the State." President Ken- 
yon L. Butterfield, also President of the Federation, presided. The first to speak 
was Mr. Howard Gross, President of the National Soil Fertility League, Chicago, on 
"The Value of County Agent Work to the Agriculture of the Nation." Following 
him came Mr. W. A. Lloyd, Agriculturist in Charge of the North Central Section, 
on "The Value of County Agent Work to the North Central Section." Both these 
talks were practical and suggestive of the work that had been done in the sections 
indicated. Following came a report by Mr. J. A. Scheuerle and Mr. C. J. Grant 
of the work being done in Hampden County, Massachusetts. The Hampden Coun- 



5o6 The Journal oj Home Economics [December 

ty Improvement League having been organized but one year, the work is being or- 
ganized as rapidly as possible. Their report showed what might be done in one 
year's time which was most gratifying to those specially interested in the endeavor. 
President Butterfield then gave his address and outlined a rural policy in Massa- 
chusetts. He emphasized the point of getting together all the societies interested 
and getting a conscious aim expressed. There must certainly be in any organized 
movement a knowledge of conditions existing, and in the second place a program of 
improvement, and there must be a correlation of effoit. It was recommended by 
the President that a special committee be appointed to study the questions which 
had been aroused in that afternoon's meeting and to bring back to the Federation 
for discussion a very full report upon these particular points. Such a committee 
was appointed, and after a brief report from the Secretary and Treasurer and the 
Commission Chairman the meeting was adjourned. 

International Council of Women. The Quinquennial Council Meeting of the 
International Council of Women was held at Rome, Italy, May 5-14, iqi4. 

Growth in membership and geographical extension was indicated in the reports 
from Councils in nearly every coimtry of the world. 

Among the many resolutions adopted by this great body of women, some of the 
most significant were those urging the enactment of laws to protect deserted wives 
and children, and the encouragement of measures to procure for emigrants proper 
emplojTnent bureaus, bureaus of information and instruction, and supervision for 
young girls on emigrant ships. 

League for the Protection of the Family. This organization formed nearly 
thirty years ago vmder the leadership of the late Rev. Samuel W. Dyke of Auburn- 
dale, Mass., has concerned itself largely with the divorce problem, with the develop- 
ment of legislation on this subject and the education of public opinion. It publishes 
annual refx)rts which would be of interest to Home Economics workers especially 
those dealing with social and economic matters. The address of the new Corre- 
sponding Secretary is Rev. John L. Sea well, 11 Foster Street, Worcester, Mass. 

Women's National Agricultural and Horticultural Association. A National 
association of women interested in horticulture and agriculture was formed by the 
expressed wish of more than a himdred persons who were present at the Horticul- 
tural Conference, May 1913. 

One year later they held their annual conference at Ambler, Pa., where the pioneer 
and extremely practical horticultural school for women was established. There 
was gathered together a goodly assemblage of women who have made good in a 
number of lines belonging to the outndoor profession. When one sees the list of 
over 800 women who have made good at floriculture alone, it is proof positive that 
in agriculture and its kindred branches there is a big field full of attractions for 
women who love the out-door life. The program was particularly interesting and 
varied, making strong appeal to all sorts and kinds of men, as well as women, as 
this list and partial program show : 

Mrs. Francis King, Alma, Mich., President, The True Role of the Horticultural 
Society; Mr. David Fairchild, Bureau of Plant Industry, Washington, D. C, 
Foreign Food Plants; Mr. George T. Powell, President Agricultural Experts 
Association, Small Fruit Culture for Women; Miss Martha Van Rensselaer, Direc- 
tor School of Home Economics, Cornell University, Farm Housekeeping; Mr. 



1 914] News from the Field 507 

W. P. Hartman, Medford, Chief of the Bureau of Markets and Information, 
Pomona Grange of Suffolk County, New York, The Grangers' Market Bureau; 
Mr. Walter P. Stokes, President Garden Club of America, The Cooperation of the 
Women's National Agricultural and Horticultural Association, and the Garden 
Club of America; Prof. David F. Warner, Professor Poultry Husbandry, State 
College, Pennsylvania, Broilers for Profit; Miss Elsie McFate, Owner Hillside 
Hardy Flower Gardens, Hardy Flower Culture; Mr. Bertrand H. Farr, Iris expert, 
Wyomissing, Pa., Raising Rainbows. 

The objects of this Association are to promote interest and success in horticul- 
ture and agriculture by the exchange of information among its members; to bring 
together supply and demand of produce among its labor, and to increase the 
knowledge and use of existing institutions. 

Child Welfare Exhibition. More than a million and a half has been the attend- 
ance at ten large Child Welfare Exhibitions held in the United States during the 
past four years. The attendance at the large number of smaller exhibitions cannot 
be calculated. 

These exhibitions, the first of which was held at New York three years ago last 
January, have aimed to show: What we are doing for the children, what we are 
not doing for the children, what we ought to do for the children. 

The exhibitions have been very effective in arousing the public conscience, and in 
securing needed reforms in the way of legislation and community action. They 
have been equally effective in educating, not only the mothers, but fathers, and 
brothers, and sisters, concerning the needs of the child. 

The results of legislation have been of many kinds — A new bathing beach in 
Chicago; an infant welfare division in the municipal board of health in the 
same city; a factory inspection ordinance in Kansas city; housing inspection in 
LouisviQe; better regulations concerning child labor and the work of women; 
improved systems of public recreation; and the establishing of courses for mothers 
in the public schools in various cities. 

Where, as has usually been the case, the Child Welfare Exhibits have been held 
independently, they have aimed to cover a very wide field, including: Health, 
housing, schools, recreation, the working child, the dependent and delinquent child, 
various children's charities, law and the child, and standards of living. The Child 
Welfare Exhibit held at Dublin, July 15-August 31, under the Women's National 
Health Association of Ireland directed its attention chiefly to the questions of 
Child Health and Play, since the other questions above mentioned are being repre- 
sented by other societies, with whose exhibits we are working in dose cooperation. 

The exhibit occupied thirteen rooms, forming a continuous corridor. These 
rooms were decorated in a uniform color scheme, and all charts and photographs 
were mounted on wall screens of a imiform size, a device which was at once novel 
and effective. 

Electric Household Appliances. In connection with a study of the possibil- 
ities of electricity for household purposes. Miss Anna M. East, who is now study- 
ing at Teachers' College, Columbia University, has compiled a list of American 
manufacturers of electric household appliances which should prove interesting to 
many teachers of Home Economics. 



5o8 The Journal of Home Economics [December 

Miss East will be glad to hear from teachers and others who have met problems 
in the use of electric household appliances. 

Teachers of Home Economics visiting in New York City will find electrical 
appliances on display at the New York Edison Building, Irving Place and Fifteenth 
Street, and at their other display rooms. Similar exhibits are found in other cities. 

National Education Association. Miss Sarah Louise Arnold, who was to 
preside at the Household Economics section of the National Education Asso- 
ciation Meeting in St. Paul on July 9th, was unable to be present, and at her 
request, Mrs. Alice P. Norton, represented the American Home Economics 
Association. The meeting was opened with Miss Grace Shepherd, treasurer of 
the National Education Association presiding, and was later put in charge of 
Mrs. Norton. Mrs. Norton read a paper on the Renovation of the Home by 
Home Economics, and was followed by Miss Rausch of the extension department 
of the University of Washington; Dr. Snedden, commissioner of education for 
Massachusetts; and Miss Anna East, who gave an interesting account of the 
work in Porto Rico. A discussion followed, in which a great many took part, 
including representatives from California, from Kansas, and from many differ- 
ent sections of the country. Miss Louise McDanell, assistant professor in the 
University of Minnesota, acted as secretary of the meeting, and also gave an 
account of the courses offered at Minnesota. 

The meeting was unusually well attended. 

Brief Notes. The Housing of Homeless Girl Workers is being met in Chicago by 
the seven Eleanor Clubs, which accommodate 60 to 100 girls each. They pay $3 
to $5 a week for board and room, are given the free use of sewing machines and pay 
five cents for the use of the laundry. Evening classes offer instruction in various 
branches, and recreation is amply provided. The Clubs own a summer camp which 
offers an outing to 100 girls at a time at a charge of $3.75 to $4.75 a week. These 
prices pay all running expenses for club and camp, the expert business management 
being in the hand of an unpaid board. 

Mt. Holyoke College has abolished the compulsory housework on the part of 
the students which for 75 years has distinguished its management. The system 
which fitted so well to rural New England conditions two generations ago, is felt to 
be now out of date. The general tuition fee will be raised, but opportunities to 
earn money in the new cooperative houses in library, laboratory and secretarial 
work will be greatly increased for those who need it. 

The Home Economics Department of the General Federation of Women's Clubs 
reports through its chairman, Miss Helen Louise Johnson, that a Home Economics 
Department has been formed in the Alabama Federation. Nevada alone is yet to 
be brought into the fold. 

The College of Agriculture of the University of Wisconsin singles out each year 
for honorary recognition three or four men who have contributed eminent services 
to agriculture. This year Arthur Broughton, one of the foremost flock-masters 
of the Middle West, John M. True, for several years Secretary of the Wisconsin 
State Board of Agriculture, and J. H. Hale, of Connecticut, the "peach king of 
America," will be honored for the work they have done in agricultural lines. 

When will the good housekeeper receive an honorary degree? 



INDEX TO VOLUME VI 
1914 



A comparison of methods of cooking, 

131 

A distinguished worker in the chemistry 
of food and nutrition, 266 

A pioneer cooking school, 28 

A study of textiles as part of the related 
subject matter in courses of sew- 
ing. ^35 

Abel, Mary Hinman. Duty of the 
home and school clubs in helping 
Home Economics courses in the 
high schools, 114 

Administration of school lunches, 213 

Agencies at work in New York State 
for the betterment of food condi- 
tions, 109 

AxusoN, Inga M. K. Score cards, 
460 

American Home Economics Association: 
Aimouncement of annual meeting, 
206; Editorial, 268, 354; Proceed- 
ings of seventh annual meeting, 

397 
An experiment in teaching economics, 

44 

Andrews, Benjamin R. Home Eco- 
nomics Day and the Richards Fund 
5 2 ; Household progress of one hun- 
dred years, 340 

Arnold, Sarah Louise. Fundamental 
conceptions of Home Economics, 
421; Lines over my fire place, 359 

Art: Basic work in, 35; Household, 
teaching, 233 

Asparagus, Food value of, 464 

Balch, Emily Greene. Housework, 
English and immigrants, 447 

Balderston, L. Ray. The laundry, 
321 



Ball, Mildred. Business management 

in the home, 274 
Basic work: In pure science, 30; In art, 

35 

Beadenkoff, Thomas. Public baths 
in large cities, 249 

Bevier, Isabel. The woman's build- 
ing, University of Illinois, 39 

Bibliography for Home Economics Lit- 
erature, 76, 185, 291, 377, 487 

Books and Literature, 81, 189, 295, 381, 
491: American Cook Book, The, 
498; Around-the- World Cook Book, 
498; Atmospheric Conditions of 
Working Men's Houses, 298; Bak- 
er's Bread, 302; Book of Distinc- 
tive Interiors, 84; Book of House 
Plans, 83; Book of Recipes, 192; 
Candies and Bon Bons and How 
to Make Them, 497; Care of the 
Child, The, 491; Chemical Com- 
position of Florida Oranges, 81; 
Child: Its Care, Diet, and Com- 
mon Ills, The, 382; Childs' Recipes, 
301; Choosing an Occupation, 304; 
Concerning Heat Conductivity of 
Floors of Different Kinds, 193; 
Conquest of the Tropics, 387; 
Cooking by G. A. S., 191; Cooking 
Notes for Voluntary Aid Cooks, 
499; Cost of Living, 387; Country 
Life, Conveniences and Enjoyment, 
19s; Delinquent Child and the 
Home, 296; Development of the 
Child, The, 491; Efficient Kitchen, 
The, 300; Exhibiting and Classifying 
Horticultural Products, 193; Feed, 
Flavor and Texture of Cheese, 302; 
Fifty Years in a Mar>'land Kitchen, 
83; First Book of Health, 492; 
Food as Body Fuel, 497; Fumish- 



509 



5IO 



The Journal of Home Economics 



[December 



ing the Home of Good Taste, 386; 
Grocer's Encyclopedia, 302; Health 
of the School Child, 195; Historical 
Costumes, 86; Housekeeper's Man- 
ual, 303; How I Kept my Baby 
Well, IQ4; How to Cook in Casser- 
ole Dishes, 299; Human Body and 
Its Enemies, The, 492; Industrial 
Education, 384; Influence of Vege- 
tables Greened with Copper Salts 
on the Nutrition and Health of 
Man, 194; Injurious Insects, 299; 
List of Books for Women in the 
Home and in Business, 303; List 
of References on Home Economics, 
87; Massachusetts Boys and Girls 
Home Economics Clubs, 387; 
Model Housing Law, A, 495; 
Mother and the Child, 383; Nature 
of Tea Infusions, 192; Nerve Waste, 
19s; New Cookery, 191; New Ways 
and Old, 302; New Zealand Society 
for Health of Women and Children, 
384; Nutrition and Diet, 81; Nu- 
tritional Physiology, 298; Old Ital- 
ian Lace, 190; One Maid Book of 
Cookery, 299; Opportunities in the 
Field of Nursing, 84; Outline Les- 
sons in Housekeeping, 303; Peo- 
ple's Health, 381; Pop Com for 
the Home, 87; Practical Dietetics, 
496; Practical Homemaking, 385; 
Price of Meats in Paris, 83; Rai- 
sins, Figs, and Other Dried Fruits 
and Their Use, 192; Rearing an 
Imperial Race, 295; Recipes and 
Menus for Fifty, 387; Reducing 
the Cost of Food Distribution, 388; 
Report of the Commonwealth and 
States of AustraUa, 302; School 
Hygiene, 85; School in the Home, 
383; Shelter and Clothing, 189; 
Silk Manufacturing and its Prob- 
lems, 86; Simple Garments for 
Children, 499; Some Results Ob- 
tained in Studying Ripening Bana- 
nas with a Respiration Calorimeter, 
82; Study of the Foot and Foot- 



wear, A, 499; Sugar and Acid in 
Oranges and Grapefruit, 81; Sugar 
and Its Value as Food, 82; Sug- 
gestions for Diet Kitchen Equip- 
ment, 193; Sur\'ey of the Woman 
Problem, A, 496; Syllabus of Home 
Economics, 87, 301 ; Technical Edu- 
cation Bulletins, 303; Textiles, 190; 
Training the Boy, 85; Training 
the Girl, 493; Training the Little 
Housekeeper by Kitchen Garden 
Methods, 303; Twentieth Century 
Book for the Progressive Baker, 
386; Vocations for Girls, 494; Web- 
ster's International Dictionary, 87; 
Young Working Girls, 494 

Books Received, 88, 196, 304, 388, 500 

BouGHTON, Alice. The administra- 
tion of school limches in cities, 213 

Bread making, Some results of a study 
of, 21 

BacHANAN, Florence. A study of 
textiles as a part of the related 
subject matter in courses of sewing, 

135 
Business management in the home, 274 
Buying lunch room supplies, 328 

Caldwell, Otis W. Home Economics 

and rural extension, 99 
Candy syrups. The influence of glucose 

on the cooking temperatures of, 

457 

Canning, Home, 261 

Chemistry of a cup of coffee, 466 

Child, Georgie Boyniox. Equipment 
and its relation to home making, 
166 

Childhood, National conservation and 
nutrition during, 439 

Civil Service Cooperators of Washing- 
ton, D. C, 161 

Class work. Teaching the preparations 
of meals in, 12 

Club work: Home and school clubs, 
114; Home Economics in General 
Federation of Women's Clubs, 153; 
in Home Economics, 46 



I9I4] 



Index to Volume VI 



5" 



Cofifee, Chemistry of a cup of, 466 
College extension in domestic science, 

41 
Consen'ation, National, and nutrition 

during childhood, 439 
Content of Home Economics courses, 

320 
Cooking, A comparison of methods of, 

131 

Cooking school, A pioneer, 28 

Count Rumford, scientist and philan- 
thropist, 344 

Current problems in Home Economics, 
430 

Daniels, Amy. The influence of glu- 
cose on the cooking temperatures 
of candy syrups, 457, 482 
Dewey, L. H. Pure textiles, 222 
Diet of high school pupils, 138 
Dietitian, Training the school, 207 
Diets in British workhouses, Food val- 
ues of, 463 
Distribution of household labor, 120 
Domestic science, College extension in, 

41 

DuBDAN, Margaret L. Teaching the 
preparation of meals in regular 
class work, 12 

Duty of home and school clubs in help- 
ing Home Economics courses in 
high schools, 114 

Economics, An experiment in teaching, 

44 
Editorials, 54, 156, 268, 354, 468: Affil- 
iated associations, 158; Back num- 
bers, 56; Bibhographies, 158; Bul- 
letins of the U. S. Public Health 
Service, 270; Cleveland Meeting, 
354; Come to Cleveland, 268; Ex- 
ecutive secretary. The, 470; Exten- 
sion of the work of Nutrition In- 
vestigations of the United States 
Department of Agriculture, 357; 
Journal, The, a cooperative mag- 
azine, 356; Journal, The, a month- 
ly, 470; June meeting of the Ad- 



ministration Section, 269; Material 
for teachers, 470; Museum col- 
lections and Home Economics, 468; 
New Department, The, 54; Public 
Health Service publications, 358; 
Richards Memorial Fund, 160; 
Score cards, 56; Syllabus of Home 
Economics, 270; Twenty years of 
Home Economics, 156 

Education, the need of Home Econom- 
ics in, 241 

Educational and social possibilities of 
school lunches, 437 

Equipment and its relation to home- 
making, 166 

Equipment of Washington Irving High 
School, 245 

Experiment: in teaching economics, 44; 
in teaching foods and sanitation, 

23 s 
Extension: College, in domestic sci- 
ence, 41; Rural, and Home Eco- 
nomics, 99 

Flax retting, 50 

Food: Agencies for betterment of, 109; 
Federal and state control of, 46; 
and the law, 332; Food value of 
asparagus, 464; in British work- 
houses, 463; Teaching, and sani- 
tation, 23s 

Food and the law, 332 

Food values of diets in British work- 
houses, 463 

Formal methods of preparing food, 352 

Frederick, Christine. Points in ef- 
ficiency, 278 

French, Cornelia. A comparison of 
methods of cooking, 131 

Fundamental conceptions of Home Eco- 
nomics, 421 

Galloway, B. T. WTiat federal meat 
inspection has done for the coun- 
try, 454 

Glucose, The influence of, on the cook- 
ing temperatures of candy syrups, 
457 



512 



The Journal of Home Economics 



[December 



Health hints for summer, 252 

Hill, H. W. Health hints for summer, 
252 

Home and school clubs, 114 

Home canning, 261 

Home Economics: Basic work in art in 
preparing teachers for, 35; Basic 
work in science in preparing teachers 
for, 30; Club work in, 46; Content 
of, courses, 320; Current problems 
in, 430; Day and Richards Fimd, 
52; Fundamental conceptions of, 
421 ; Home and school clubs helping, 
114; and rural extension, 99; Home 
work in, 141; House plaiming and, 
229; Program for. Day, 340; The 
need of, in education, 241 ; Work of, 
in General Federation of Women's 
Clubs, 153 

Home Economics Day and the Rich- 
ards Fxmd, 52 

Home, Trained assistants in the, 258 

Home work in Home Economics, 141 

House planning and Home Economics, 
229 

Household arts teaching, 233 

Household labor. Distribution of, 1 20 

Household progress of one hundred 
years, 340 

Household science in secondary schools, 
218 

Housekeeper's Department, 57, 161, 
27i> 3S9i 471: Boiled milk, 288; 
Business management in the home, 
274; Buying canned fruits and vege- 
tables, 175; Civil Service Coop- 
erators of Washington, D. C, 161; 
Clean hands, 71; Cooperative Buy- 
ing, 64, 471; Cost of hving, 73; 
Creeds for 1914, 74; Disease car- 
riers, 69; Do modem conveniences 
pay? 167; Effect of cold storage, 
290; Efficiency of methods of 
cleaning, 172; Exercise for the 
housewife, 72; Factors of bread- 
making, 478; Family budget, 276; 



Feeding young children, 179, 286; 
Fireless cooker, 184; Heating tests 
for coal and briquettes, 481; Help 
from your state, 376; How to keep 
bread fresh, 375; Influence of glu- 
cose on cooking temperatures, 482; 
Inter-relation of railway and home 
sanitation, 169; Jelly making, 284; 
Lines over my fireplace, 359; 
Luncheon for twelve, 63; Making 
liquid fats solid, 183; Market in- 
vestigation, 67; Mayonnaise dress- 
ing, 476; Menu making. 57; Mont- 
clair Cooperative Society, 274; 
New England Cooperative Society, 
273; One-price selhng from a 
housekeeper's point of view, 369; 
Oven temperatures, 283; Points of 
efficiency, 278; Powdered sugar of 
commerce, 372; Preservation of 
eggs, 290; Protein standard and 
the housekeeper, 361; Quick meth- 
ods of mixing dough, 179; Reasons 
for cooperative buying, 359; Rules 
for the milk bottle, 375; Serving a 
four-course church luncheon, 365; 
Social need, 290; Some observa- 
tions on the feeding of children, 181 ; 
Streakiness of chocolate, 484; Sug- 
gestions to relieve the monotony of 
housework, 74; Teaching girls to 
dress tastefully, 371; Testing 
weights and measures, 177; The 
best method for making coEfee, 
480; The English woman and the 
cooperative store, 472; The mat- 
tress, 474; The use of gelatines, 
485; Treatment of household waste, 
281; Two extremes in nutrition, 
486; "Unoccupied" Housekeeper, 
370; Waste in preparing food, 73; 
What materials are best and cheap- 
est, 176; Whipping cream, 373; 
Woman's Market Club of Greens- 
burg, Pa., 271 
Housemaids, the School for, 151 
Housework, English and immigrants, 
447 



I9I4] 



Ittdex to Volume VI 



S13 



Housing conditions of high school pu- 
pils, 138 

HxjNT, Caroline L. The training of 
the school dietitian, 207 

Immigrants, Housework, English and, 
447 

Jacobs, Emma S. Menu making and 
the nutritive value of meals, 57; 
The daily meals and how to plan 
them, 15 

Johnson, Helen Louise. Club work 
in Home Economics: federal and 
state control of food, 46; Food and 
the law, 332; The work of the Home 
Economics Department, General 
Federation Women's Clubs, 153 

Kanahoah, the House of Friends, 449 

KiNNE, Helen. Present tendencies in 
household arts teaching, 233 

Klaer, Edna M. Buying lunch room 
supplies, 328 

Knight, Howard and Cora. The 
Civil Service Cooperators of Wash- 
ington, D. C, 161 

KoNiG, Joseph, 266 

Langworthy, C. F. a distinguished 
worker in the chemistry of food 
and nutrition, 266; Distribution of 
household labor, 120 

Latin as a vocational study, 315 

Laimdry, The, 321 

Lunches: Administration of school, 213; 
Lunch room supplies, 328; School 
lunches, 437 

McCoRMiCK, Mary G. Food values 
of diets in British workhouses, 463 

McGowAN, Ellen Beers. Studies on 
flax retting: a summary, 50 

McLeod, Sarah J. An experiment in 
teaching economics, 44 

McMillan, Margaret. National con- 
servation and nutrition during 
childhood, 439 



Marlatt, Abby L. Home Economics 
and higher education, 241 

Meals: Menu making and the nutri- 
tive value of meals, 57; Teaching 
the preparation of, 12; The daily, 
and how to plan them, 15 

Meat inspection, What federal, has done 
for the country, 454 

Menu making and the nutritive value 
of meals, 57 

Methods of cooking, a comparison of, 

131 
Municipal visiting housekeepers, i 

Nasmyth, James, and his economical 
device for slow cooking, 127 

National conservation and nutrition 
during childhood, 459 

News from the field, 89, 197, 305, 389, 
501: Alexandra Trust, 312; Ameri- 
can Home Economics Association, 
397; Amherst Conference on Rural 
Community Planning, 395; Art in 
the home, 313; Biermial General 
Federation Women's Clubs, 314, 
417; Brief notes, 508; Child Wel- 
fare Exhibition, 507; Commence- 
mentoftheGarlandSchoolof Home- 
making, 392; Congress on Child 
Welfare, 312; Connecticut Home 
Economics Association, 200; Con- 
tinuation Classes of Montclair, 502; 
Converse College, 391; Dry-Farm- 
ing Congress, 92; Domestic Arts 
Course, Meriden, Connecticut, 391 ; 
Editorial in Survey, 95; Electric 
Household Appliances, 507; Ellen 
H. Richards' Research Prize, 96; 
Extension Schools in Home Eco- 
nomics, 502; Farm Woman Ex- 
pert, 205; Farmers' Institute Work- 
ers, 93; First International Expo- 
sition of Safety and Sanitation, 91; 
Florida Canning School, 312; Fraud 
in commodities, 202; Graduate 
School of Home Economics, 306; 
Graduate Work in Home Eco- 
nomics, 395; Grand Rapids, Home 



514 



The Journal oj Home Economics 



[December 



Economics Club, 199; Greater New 
York Home Economics Associa- 
tion, 197, 305, 501; Home Econom- 
ics at commencement time, 393; 
Home Economics in Turkey, 206; 
Home Economics Week, 200; Home 
Economics Day, 306; Homemak- 
ers' Conference, 200, 201, 307; 
Home Science Institute, 201; 
Household and Social Science, 503; 
Household Arts Alumni Confer- 
ence at Teachers College, 307; 
Household Science Department of 
University of Illinois, 95; House- 
hold Science in Canada, 394; Illi- 
nois Woman's College, 309; Indi- 
ana Home Economics Association, 
199; Infant Mortality Conference, 
90, 396; Institution Economics Sec- 
tion, 415; International Congress 
on Home Education, 311, 396; In- 
ternational Council of Women, 506; 
Iowa Home Economics Associa- 
tion, 198; Johns Hopkins Summer 
School, 309; League for the Pro- 
tection of the Family, 506; Life 
Extension Institute, 313; London 
County Coimcil Technical Cook- 
ery School for Boys, 98; London 
Exposition of Rubber and Tropi- 
cal Products, 97; Massachusetts 
Agriculture College, Extension Ser- 
vice, 308; Massachusetts Federation 
for Rural Progress, 505; Michigan 
Home Economics Association, 198, 
390, 501; Missouri Association of 
Household Arts and Sciences, 90; 
National Conference on Race Bet- 
terment, 202; National Conserva- 
tion Exposition, 93; National Edu- 
cation Association, 508; National 
Organization of Nurses, 311; New 
England Home Economics Asso- 
ciation, 89, 197, 306, 389; New 
Hampshire College, 308; Ohio 
Home Economics Association, 199; 
Omicron Nu Society, 305; Oread 
School, 205; Pacific Conference of 



Home Economics, 305; Parents' 
League, 309; Philadelphia Home 
Economics Association, 89, 306, 389 
501; Pratt Institute, 95; Progress 
in Japan, 206; Pure Food Society, 
97; Purity Congress, 205; Relief 
Society Grocery, 311; Richards 
Day, 94, 201, 202; Rurahzing the 
cities, 394; School credit for home 
work, 503 ; School for housekeepers, 
94; School lunch exhibit, 96; School 
of Household Arts, University of 
Cincinnati, 392; Seattle Home Eco- 
nomics Association, 89, 306; Social 
Service Congress, 313; South Caro- 
lina Home Economics Association, 
502; Teachers College, 202, 502; 
Teaching positions in the Philip- 
pines, 97; Texas Home Economics 
Association, 89; Thanksgiving 
meeting of Home Economics 
teachers, 393; Training vocational 
coimsellors, 505; Two-Dish League 
The, 504; University of Missouri, 
392; University of Nebraska House- 
hold Arts Club, 200; Vocational 
Conference, 204; Vocational Guid- 
ance, 396; Washington, D. C, 
Home Economics Association, 389; 
501 ; Washington State Home Eco- 
nomics Association, 390; Windows 
open by law, 504; Wisconsin House- 
hold Economics Committee, 94; 
Women's National Agriculture and 
Horticulture Association, 506 

One-price selling from a housekeeper's 
point of view, 368 

Plan, How to, the daily meals, 15 
Planning, House, and Home Economics, 

229 
Points in efficiency, 278 
PowNALL, Edythe. The equipment of 

the Washington Irving High 

School, 245 
Present tendencies in household arts 

teaching, 233 



I9I4] 



Index to Volume VI 



515 



Proceedings of the seventh annual 
meeting of the American Home 
Economics Association, 397 

Public baths in large cities, 249 

Pure textiles, 222 

Qui>fN, Mary J. The basic work in 
art in preparing teachers of Home 
Economics, 35 

Report on housing conditions and diet 
of high school pupils at Vevay, Indi- 
ana, 138 

Results of a study of bread making, 21 

Richardson, Harriette T. The mat- 
tress, 474 

Roth WELL, Mrs. Bessie B. Visiting 
housekeeping in Detroit, 6 

Rural extension, 99 

Sanitation, Teaching foods and, 235 

Savtlle, FAN>fY Eugenie. A pioneer 
cooking school, 28 

ScHERMERHORN, Grace. School Credit 
for home work in Home Economics, 
141 

School: A pioneer cooking, 28; credit 
for home work, 141; for house- 
maids, 151 ; Home and school dubs, 
114; Household science in, 218; 
Housing conditions and diet of 
high school pupils, 138; lunches, 
213, 437; Training the, dietitian, 
207; Washington Irving High 
School, 245 

School credit for home work in Home 
Economics, 141 

School lunch progress in New York, 442 

Science: Basic work in, 30; Household, 
in secondary schools, 218 

Score cards, 146, 460 

Serving a four-course church luncheon, 

365 
Sewing, courses of, 135, 
Shaxler, Mary V. The need of 

trained assistants in the home, 258 
Small, Mary E. L. Educational and 

Social possibilities of school lunches, 

437 



Snedden, David. Current problems 
in Home Economics, 430 

Snell, J. F. Basic work in pure sci- 
ence in preparing teachers of Home 
Economics, 30 

Some possibilities in the work of mu- 
nicipal visiting housekeepers, i 

Some recent experiments in the teach- 
ing of foods and sanitation, 235 

Some results of a study of the factors 
of bread making, 21 

Stannard, Margaret. The Home 
Maker's School, 244 

Steckel, Martha. The Woman's 
Market Club of Greensburg, Pa., 
271 

Stevens, Grace. Home canning, 261 

Straus, S. W. The English woman 
and the cooperative store, 472 

Studies on flax retting: a siunmary, 50 

Subject matter in courses of sewing, 135 

Teaching: An experiment in teaching 
economics, 44; Basic work in art 
in preparing teachers, 35; Basic 
work in science in preparing teach- 
ers, 30; foods and sanitation, 235; 
Household arts, 233; preparation 
of meals in class work, 12 

Teaching the preparation of meals in 
regular class work, 12 

Textiles: A study of, 135; Pure, 222 

The administration of school lunches in 
cities, 213 

The basic work in art in preparing 
teachers of Home Economics, 35 

The basic work in pure science in pre- 
paring teachers of Home Econom- 
ics, 30 

The daily meals and how to plan them, 

IS 

The English woman and the coopera- 
tive store, 472 

The equipment of the Washington Irv- 
ing High School, 245 

The influence of glucose on the cooking 
temperatures of candy s>Tups, 457, 
482 



5i6 



The Journal oj Home Economics 



[December 



The laundry, 321 

The mattress, 474 

The need of Home Economics in edu- 
cation, 241 

The need of trained assistants in the 
home, 258 

The protein standard and the house- 
keeper, 361 

The relation of house planning to Home 
Economics, 229 

The school for housemaids in Deimiark, 

151 

The Smith-Lever Bill, 318 

The training of the school dietitian, 
207 

The Woman's Building, University of 
Illinois, 39 

The work of the Home Economics De- 
partment, General Federation of 
Women's Clubs, 153 

Training: the school dietitian, 207; 
trained assistants in the home, 
258 

Treatment of household waste, 281 

TsiocHE, George N. The school for 
housemaids in Denmark, 151 

Troxell, Martha. The influence of 
glucose on the cooking tempera- 
tures of candy syrups, 457 

Usher, Susannah. Agencies at work 
in New York State for betterment 
of food conditions, 109 

Visiting housekeeper: Some possibili- 
ties in the work of municipal, i; 
Work in Detroit, 6 

Visiting housekeeping work in Detroit, 
6 

Vocational study, Latin as a, 315 

VuLTfe, H. T. Treatment of household 
waste, 281 



Ward, Mabel. Kanahoah, the House 
of Friends, 449 

Washington Irving High School, The 
equipment of, 245 

Webster, Arthur Gordon. Count 
Rumford, scientist and philanthro- 
pist, 344 

Wesbrook, F. F. Household ad- 
ministration. Home Economics and 
domestic science, 243 

What federal meat inspection has done 
for the country, 454 

Wile, Ira S. School lunch progress 
in New York, 442 

WiLLARD, Florence and Meriel. 
Household science in secondary 
schools, 218 

Williams, Anna W. Some results of a 
study of the factors of bread mak- 
ing, 21 

WiNCHELL, Cora M. Some recent ex- 
periments in the teaching of foods 
and sanitation, 235 

Wing, Annie L. One-price selling 
from a housekeeper's point of view, 
368; The protein standard and the 
housekeeper, 361 

WiNSLOW, Emma A. Some possibili- 
ties in the work of municipal vis- 
iting housekeepers, i 

Woman's Market Club, The, of Greens- 
burg, Pa., 271 

WooDHULL, Mrs. John F. Serving a 
four-course church supper, 365 

Woods, Robert. College extension in 
domestic science, 41 

Workhouses, Food values of diets in 
British, 463 

YoiTNG, Helen B. The relation of 
house planning to Home Econom- 
ics, 229 



TX Journal of home economics 

1 

J7 

V.6 

Food 
Sciences 



PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE 
CARDS OR SLIPS FROM THIS POCKET 

UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO LIBRARY 



