i!' iiiiiiii::'" 



'ili'i '111 
mill! iiiiiii 



iii'ii'ii 



v;(i;!'i,;"i!iiHiiiiiinii^ 



•'illi! 



IIimHi 



ii!!m!)'iiiiiiiiiiii|i|rii 



lilllli lllill ill 






Illllil 



nil I '^ 



:|!!i|!il|!liiPliii!i|;. 



I'l illiil 



li iiiiiiiiiil 



!llH!ll!lili!l! 



i!j|{ i||ni{ I ii{l{{{ 



IPP i 



IP 

'■''llillii 



Cornell University Library 
SB 455.E32 



Pot-pourri mixed by two / 




3 1924 000 526 123 




Cornell University 
Library 



The original of tliis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924000526123 



POT-POURRI 

MIXED BY TWO 




Jl'^ G.IO.GarU at lOcrnlUuvcL 



POT-POURRI 

MIXED BY TWO 



BY 

MRS. C. W. EARLE 

AUIHOB OF ' POT-FOUimi rBOU A SUBBEZ OABDEN ' ETC., ETC. 

AND 

MISS ETHEL CASE 



WITH ILLUSTRATIONS 



LONDON 

SMITH, ELDER & CO., 15 WATERLOO PLACE 

1914 

Idll rights reaervedi 



ALL THAT IS MINE IN THIS BOOK 

I DEDICATE TO MY SON 

LIONEL EAELE 



PREFACE 

It seems only natural to explain how Ethel Case and 
I became such friends that we could write a book 
together and yet apart. Our intimacy at first, many 
years ago now, was principally due to her kind apprecia- 
tion of the first ' Pot-pourri ' and the interest we both 
had in gardening. After reading the second ' Pot-pourri ' 
she determined to give a non-meat diet a trial in 
the hope of improving her health, which had been 
exceptionally bad for several years, in spite of the 
usual orthodox remedies. Ten years ago the treatment 
of illness by diet was looked upon very differently 
from what it is to-day, and doctors themselves are 
beginning to see that Nature is better helped by right 
feeding than hindered from doing her work by drugs. 
After some time she came to me for help, and told 
me what she had done ; this naturally roused my 
interest, as I had derived so much benefit from Dr. 
Haig's diet myself, and I found that she had patience, 
perseverance, and a growing faith — all most necessary 
if the benefits to be derived from diet are to be real 
and permanent. The results have been a wonderful 
example of what right food can do both in her case 
and mine, and for some years now her health has 
not only been restored, but she is more completely 
and thoroughly well than anyone I know. So few 



viii PREFACE 

people are really healthy and they take so Uttle notice 
of not being so and always believe some drug or 
other remedy will put them right, till the advance of 
middle age undeceives them. 

Naturally Ethel's confidence in me made a close 
mother-and-daughter tie. I was very proud of my 
best patient and she was evidently grateful to me. 
My only fear was that, directly or indirectly, I should 
in any way spoil the independence of her life ; in short, 
that she should become in any sense what is now called 
' a caged daughter ' — a thing of which I should have had 
the greatest horror if I had had daughters of my own. 
I think no parents have any right to trammel the 
lives of grown-up daughters. Is not liberty in indi- 
viduals and nations the surest road to development ? 
Why should women be more or less slaves because they 
do not happen to marry ? In these days this is happily 
little more than a truism. So, when circumstances 
enabled my friend to be independent, I greatly rejoiced. 

She has made her little home^ in Hampshire 
a complete success. Ami el, in his famous journal, so 
full of wisdom, says ' Mutual respect requires discretion 
and reserve, even in love itself ; it means preserving 
as much liberty as possible to those whose life we 
share.' Letters have of course been frequent between 
us on all sorts of subjects, and it struck me we might 
write a book together, but in separate parts. She was 
to give the account of her work in her garden, with 
all her practical experience, and I was to tell, from 
extracts out of my letters to her, all that seemed 
interesting in my life each month when away from 
her ; I hope the faithful account of the making of a 

' Redhazel, Bishops Waltham Chase. 



PREFACE ix 

newer garden may be of service to many, and I can 
honestly testify that my pupil's garden is, for its size 
and style, quite the most interesting and varied that 
I know. 

And now I hope that my ever-indulgent public 
will find some small pleasure and profit from 
this our unusual joint effort. I offer my grateful 
thanks to those who have kindly given me leave to 
copy their verses, adding to these my gratitude and 
thanks for the anonymous poems taken from news- 
papers and whose authors' leave I could not obtain. 

MARIA THEEESA EARLB. 

Woodlands, Cobham, SnfiKEY. 
March 1914. 



CONTENTS 



JANUARY 



PAGE 



Studies in Bird Migration — Knowledge of the Ancients— Filson 
Young on Lighthouses — ^Mrs. Ross's Memoirs — ^Poem 
on Italian Freedom — A Sailor's Consolation — ^Forcing 
Rhubarb — Description of Redhazel Garden — Bishops 
Waltham Chase — ^The Dumb Creation — ^Protecting Plants 
— ^Vegetable Garden — Cooking Recipes .... 1 

TEBRUARY 

Going to London — ^Visit to Bethlehem Hospital — ^Kangwood — 
' The English Review ' and the Bluebottle — Plants and 
Bulbs under Glass — Flowering Shrubs — ^A Bee Super- 
stition — Unusual Plants — A Wet Day — ^Vegetarian Recipes 32 

MARCH 

The Daffodil for Wales — Books on Napoleon — Slug Traps — ^A 
Poem on a Child — ^Militancy and Reform — ^Alstroemeriaa 
— ^Health through Diet — ^Three Vegetarian Magazines — 
Some Good Chrysanthemums — Curious Words — Arranging 
a Garden — Annuals from Seed — Birth of the Kids — ^The 
Patience of the Cottage People — Vegetable Recipes . 59 

APRIL 

Sonnet on Friendship — ^The Passing of War — Surprise Visit 
from a Badger — Cliff Gardens — Sandgate Castle — ^A Well- 
known Quotation — Our Italian Tour — ^Work in the 
Garden — ^Animal and Bird Life— Bulb Leaves — ^The One- 
legged Blackbird — ^Rampion — Pruning the Peach-trees — 
Violets — ^A Canine Hostess — Roses and Asters — ^The 
English Climate — ^Vegetable Recipes .... 90 



xii CONTENTS 



MAY 

The Compton Gallery— Life of G. F. Watts— The House -Fly— 
An Artist's Garden — A Contrast — Barr's New Nursery — 
Shrubs on Lawns — German Irises — ^Artistic Success — 
Epimediums — ^A Cure for Sleeplessness — Rookeries in 
Autumn — Cuttings — Sending for the Doctor — ^The Swarm- 
ing of the Bees — ^Vegetable Kecipes .... 122 



JUNE 

The Manure Heaj) — ^Nightingales and Cuckoos — ^Nesting -Boxes 
— ^Two Greek Plants — ^A Letter from Touraine — ^An 
Answer — ^Two Indian Letters — Double Daffodils — Wild- 
Flower Shows — The Pigeons, the Kid, and the Dogs — 
Soils — The Angry Duck — Lilies and Chrysanthemums — 
Uncommon Perennials — ^Winchester — Lilies and a Gipsy's 
Funeral — Aubrietias — Planting Koses — Strawberries — 
Vegetable Recipes . ..... 154 



JULY 

Holiday Reading — A Hospital for Gentlewomen — God's 
Garden — ^Flavour and Scent in Vegetables and Flowers — 
Botany for Females — ^Tramping — Charlotte Bronte's 
Romance — Tea at the House of Commons — Gratitude or 
Love — Bulbs — ^The Ruins at Bishops Waltham — Ban- 
quets — Flowers and their Names — Flower Shows — Camels 
in a Country Lane — ^Taste in Scents — ^A Clever Goat — 
Autumn Crocuses — ^Vegetable Recipes . . . 194 



AUGUST 

Oxford Botanical Garden — Stratford-on-Avon — Shakespeare 
and Bacon — ^New Dahhas — ^The Medical Congress — Our 
Teeth — ^Nut and Fruit Trees as Hedgerows — ^A Bicycling 
and Camping Tour — ^First Night in a Tent — A Bed of 
Sawdust — An Alarming Experience — Treves and its 
Roman Refliains — Our Camp by the Wood — A Night in an 
Empty House — ^A Volcanic Region — ^The Rhine — Life in a 
German Castle — A Masefield Poem — ^Vegetable Recipes . 227 



CONTENTS xiii 



SEPTEMBER 

Herbaceous Veronicas — A Volume of Sonnets — Two Motor 
Tours — September in Shetland — Autumn Work in the 
Garden — A Builder's Yard — Perennials from Seed — 
Eremurus — A Bonfire — Vegetable Kecipes . . . 262 

OCTOBER 

A Walking Tour in Germany — Spanish Pictures at the Grafton 
—Co-partnership Tenants' Company — Girls' Education 
and Professions — ^Friendships for Old and Young — 
Prudence and her Dolls — Bull-baiting — A Keal Cure for 
Influenza — The Badger — A Busy Month — Some Flower- 
ing Shrubs — ^The Downs and their History — A Lady or a 
Female — Dreams and Odd Happenings — ^Vegetable Recipes 297 

NOVEMBER 

Crime and Prison Reform — ^The Salvation Army — A Blue 
Book on Lunacy — A Right Understanding of Byron — 
Winter Rhubarb and Winter Flowers — ^The ' Comhill ' — 
The Treatment of Pets — ^Wialey in Autumn — Garden 
Alarms — Pergola of Vines — Scented Fern — Old Ports- 
mouth — Self-Control — Logan Berries — Borders in Colours 
— Vegetable Recipes ....... 344 

DECEMBER 

Reprinted Articles from The Illustrated London News and 

Sketch — Vegetable Recipes ..... 387 

Index .... 437 



ILLUSTRATIONS 



Mbs. C. W. Eaklb at Woodlands . ' Frontispiece 

Mjss Ethel Case at Redhazel , . .To face p. 12 



POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 



JANUARY 

Studies in . Bird Migration — Knowledge of the Ancients — Filson 
Young on Lighthouses — Mrs. Ross's Memoirs — Poem on 
Italian Freedom — ^A Sailor's Consolation — Forcing Rhubarb 
— ^Description of Redhazel Garden — Bishops Waltham Chase — 
The Dumb Creation — ^Protecting Plants — Vegetable Garden 
— Cooking Recipes. 

My Preface explains the object of my letters, and as 
they are to be published, I must leave out all personal 
matters and make them as interesting as I can. My 
life grows naturally more and more solitary and books 
are no small joy to me. So I begin at once by telling 
you of one that has deeply interested me lately and 
which I have seen in no other hands. It was published 
last autunan (1912), and is called ' Studies in Bird 
Migration,' by Eagle Clarke (Gurney & Jackson, 
Edinburgh). I was lucky enough to have it given me 
last Christmas. It is not a book an ordinary amateur 
can sit down and read from end to end, but it is full 
of fascinating modern information and research, and 
one loves to have it near one and constantly to refer 
to it. My first thought when I began it was ' Oh ! 
that I could take it with me to another world and show 



2 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

it to dear Gilbert White, and give him the full answer 
to all his gropings.' He was always more or less right, 
with his keen observations, but humbly allowed himself 
to be put back by that tiresome Barrington, with his 
absurd views as to the winter torpidity of swallows, 
their going under water, &c. Mr. Clarke's first 
chapter is very interesting — on some ancient and anti- 
quated views — and the searchings, from all times, after 
truth. He says the only writer of any distinction in 
the eighteenth century who adhered to sound common- 
sense on the subject was one whom, I am sure, most 
people have never heard of, George Edwards, who 
published a book between 1743 and 1760 called 
' Natural History of Birds and Gleanings of Natural 
History.' Mr. Clarke says his remarks are, to this day, 
well worthy of perusal. Speaking of the immersion 
theory : ' It is enough,' writes this author, ' to raise 
one's indignation, to see so many vouchers from so many 
asserters of this foohsh and erroneous conjecture, 
which is not only repugnant to reason, but to all the 
known laws of Nature.' I do love those patient 
individuals who grope in the dark and who get beyond 
their contemporaries and are often despised. It is a 
bit humUiating for those who believe, as I do, in the 
steady progress of mankind to read the following : 
' In the fifth century b.c. the Greek poet Anacreon 
welcomed, in inimitable verse, the return of the 
swallows in spring ; and it is noteworthy that he 
assigned Egypt as among this bii'd's winter retreats. 
His lines are thus beautifully rendered by Moore : 

' Once in each revolving year, 
Grentle bird ! we find thee here ; 
When Nature wears her Summer vest, 
Thou com' St to weave thy simple nest ; 



JANUARY 3 

But when the chilling Winter lowers. 
Again thou seek'st the genial bowers, 
Of Memphis, or the shores of Nile, 
Where sunny hours for ever smile.' 

A century after Anacreon, the Prophet Jeremiah 
(viii. 7) thus refers to the advent in spring of several 
species of migratory birds : ' Yea, the stork in the 
heaven knoweth her appointed times, and the turtle 
(dove) and the crane and the swallow observe the 
time of their coming.' I make no apology for these 
quotations, because I really only want to interest 
you and others in this book, which thrills me 
with its quantities of information. Books in these 
days come out so fast, and are so quickly forgotten and 
passed over, that my humble appreciation may help 
some who have never heard of this one. The frontis- 
piece is a very clever and poetical illustration of the 
birds in their passage knocking themselves to pieces 
against the flare of Eddystone lantern — poor little 
things, what an example of man's involuntary 
cruelty and interference with Nature. Aristotle was 
the propounder of the theory known as ' hibernation,' 
a theory which survived and held sway for two thousand 
years, and possibly still has a place in the belief of 
certain credulous persons. 

The hibernation theory of Aristotle was revived 
with great energy by Gilbert White's friend, the 
Hon. Daines Barrington, and everyone knows the bane- 
ful influence he exercised over Gilbert White. And 
yet, perhaps, the controversy gave great interest to 
the natural history of Selbome. In 1905 White's 
' Natural History of Selborne ' was repubhshed by 
Charles Mosley, rearranged and classified under subjects, 

b2 



4 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

which may add to its usefubiess to the young student, 
but, I confess, to me it spoils the dehcious casualaess 
of the original letters, which may go from subjects as 
different as worms, "which are hermaphrodites, and 
much addicted to venery, and, consequently, very 
prolific," to Queen Anne " turning off the Portsmouth 
Eoad on her way thither and sitting on a bank to see 
the keeper drive five hundred red deer before her, a 
sight worthy the attention of the greatest sovereign ! " 
Mr. Clarke's second chapter is called ' Some Modern 
Views,' and describes several peculiarities of migration 
and the author's personal observations. He says: 
' We see comparatively Uttle of night migration because 
during clear weather it passes entirely unnoticed even 
at the most favourably situated stations. Now and 
then the weather comes to our aid during a great 
migration, and we get a glimpse of how vast these 
movements are, and we learn something about the 
weather conditions possible.' And these are noticed 
in more detail in the chapter on the author's own 
experiences at the Eddystone lighthouse. He adds: 
' It may be asserted without fear of contradiction that 
no country in the world is more favourably situated 
than our own for witnessing the movements of migratory 
birds, that there is none in which the many phases of 
the phenomenon are of a more varied nature, and none 
in which the subject has received greater attention.' 
Mr. Clarke's remarkable book brings all that is known 
up to date. He describes how sometimes, if the weather 
is cold in May, as it was in 1886, thousands of the 
insect -feeding birds perish — swallows, house-martins, 
sand-martins, and swifts being the greatest sufferers. 
Chapter xvii. is especially interesting. Speaking of 



JANUARY 5 

Eddystone, no other lighthouse in any country or of 
any time has attained to the same degree of celebrity 
as the series of beacons which, since the year 1699, have 
stood upon those lonely Cornish rocks. His other 
great place of observation, described in the second 
volume, is Fair Isle, where he spent a year. I had to 
look out on the map the exact position of Fair Isle. 
It is between the Shetlands and the Orkneys, and it 
was there that a Spanish ship was wrecked in days 
long ago, and the Spanish sailors are said to have 
taught the natives to knit garments in curious patterns 
with bright-coloured wools which they dye themselves 
from herbs grown on the island ; a curious instance 
of the arts of the South reaching to the far North, as 
these unusual patterns were originally designed by the 
Moors, and I am told the industry goes on to this day. 
To come back both to the poetry and prose of 
modern days, I enclose from a Pall Mall Gazette of this 
month a cutting of one of Mr. Filson Young's notes 
under his title of ' The Things that Matter.' He is 
always at his very best when on or near the sea, and 
his imagination takes in and beautifully expresses 
what does not strike everyday people. I often think 
of those at sea on stormy winter nights, and one's 
heart swells with fear and pity. But I confess I had 
never thought of the men Uving in lighthouses, so I 
cut it out and send it you. 

' The Things that Matteb. 

' The isolation of the Needles lighthouse during 
Christmas week served to remind the town-dweller 
of a class of public servants of whom ordinarily he 
never thinks, of whose very existence he is habitually 



6 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

unconscious. Lightkeepers, nevertheless, are of all 
silent, invisible, unobtrusive workers in the public 
service the most deserving of occasional remembrance 
and tribute. Those engaged on shore stations live 
with their families the Ufe of the land ; but those who 
keep watch in lonely sea towers on rock, stations or 
remote islands live Uke no other men. Their house 
is in the air, founded on a rock, with the sea all round 
it ; but they have neither the Uberty of the air, the 
variety of the earth, nor the freedom of the sea. They 
are prisoners of all three elements. In monastic 
groups of three, cut off from all the world for weeks 
at a time, silent, Uverish, irritable, exact, patient, 
conscientious, and responsible, they perform their 
monotonous but glorious duties with a precision and 
efficiency unexcelled in any other service. 

' Every night England sleeps in a glory, ringed with 
a crown of stars of their kindling. From the Wolf to 
Skerryvore, from Stroma to Fair Isle, from the BeU to 
the Eddystone, they saw the New Year come in 
between two flashes of their mirrored lights, between 
two thunderclaps of bursting seas, between two shouts 
of the gale. And every night someone, delivered from 
the weariness of the sea, is coming home to his own 
roof and fire, because of them. When next the wind 
keeps you awake at night, think of them, sitting each 
beside his star, and be grateful.' 

What a comfort it is to be able to get Mrs. Ross's 
olive oil without sending to Florence for it. I 
wonder if I told you the new address is the Central 
Buying Agency, 7 Cormaught Street, London, W. Few 
things vary so much in excellence as olive oil ; in fact, 
I think that much that is sold in England is not made 



JANUARY 7 

from olives at all, and in that case is perhaps injurious 
instead of very beneficial to the health of vegetarians. 

As my letters are to precede your gardening 
articles, I must be true to myself and introduce 
some httle pieces of poetry that I have copied 
into my notebooks. I have been reading Mrs. Boss's 
Memoirs lately, ' The Fourth Generation.' I don't 
suppose you will enjoy them as much as I did, as they 
speak of my time and name many I knew who have 
passed away, but there is much of general interest. 
I think her description of Egypt as it was before the 
English possession, and Italy as it was before Gari- 
baldi and the driving out of the Austrians — which I 
always think was the most wonderful historical event 
of my whole life — ^would interest you. This is John 
Addington Symonds' translation of a Venetian 
patriotic song : it is good, I think, so I enclose it ; it 
expresses the feehng that stirred my very soul in my 
young and enthusiastic days in Italy. In the book 
there are interesting letters from well-known literary 
people. Poor J. A. Symonds killed himself working 
at his life of Michael Angelo. 

Enclosure : — 

Thousands of gondolas swept o'er my waters 

When I gave troth to the sea that was mine : 
Now are they few — sad and lone are my daughters, 
Dark as the gaol where in fetters I pine. 

King, break my chains, give back freedom to me, 
Then, not till then, shall Italia be free. 

Once on my towers in the pride of its bravery 

Waved the great tricotor standard on high : 
Now like the badge of my bondage and slavery 
Floats the loathed yellow and black to the sky. 
King, give me back my banner to me. 
Then, not till then, shall Italia be free. 



8 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

Gnarding the book of my saint in his glory, 

Boared my brave lion through ages of pride : 
Hushed on the waves is that voice, and my story 
Sinks into naught while he dreams by the tide. 
King, from his sleep wake ipy lion for me. 
Then, not till then, shall Italia be free. 

After your lovely description of Portsmouth 
Harbour at sunset in your letter last week, with all 
its calm picturesqueness, you may like to see this, 
I believe, little known poem by Dibdin called ' The 
Sailor's Consolation,' to show what seamen think of 
us poor land folk. 

THE SAILOR'S CONSOLATION 

One night came on a hurricane. 

The sea was mountains rolling, 

When Barney Buntline chewed his quid, 

And said to Billie Bowline : 

'A strong nor'-wester's blowing, Bill, 

Hark ! don't ye hear it roar now ? 

Lord help 'em, how I pities them 

Unhappy folk on shore now. 

' Foolhardy chaps as live in towns. 
What dangers they are all in, 
And now lie quaking in their beds, 
For fear the roof shall fall in ! 
Poor creatures, how they envies us. 
And wishes, I've a notion. 
For our good luck in such a storm 
To be upon the ocean ! 

' And as for them that's out all day 
On business from their houses, 
And late at night returning home. 
To cheer their babes and spouses ; 
While you and I, Bill, on the deck 
Are comfortably lying. 
My eyes ! what tiles and chimney pots 
About their heads are flying ! 



JANUARY 9 

' Both you and I have ofttimes heard 

How men are killed and undone. 

By overturns from carriages. 

By thieves and fires in London. 

We know what risks these landsmen run, 

From noblemen to tailors ; 

Then, Bill, let us thank Providence 

That you and I are sailors ! ' 

Everybody with a greenhouse should do their 
best to force rhubarb. Sutton's ' Champagne ' we find 
very good. We take up big stools with large balls 
of earth in November and expose them to the weather 
and put them under the stage in the greenhouse in 
a box, and by the 12th of January this year we had 
our first dish. The other day I went over to see a 
friend on the borders of Berkshire. There I saw a 
kale that was new to me ; it was hke a little old cabbage- 
tree with green sprouts all over it. It looks several 
years old, and I was told it was called ' Cut and come 
again ' and that it was much grown by cottagers. The 
cuttings I brought home are doing well. I am trying 
to buy some of the excellent soil that we saw in heaps 
at the side of the road when you were with me. At 
one time those turf cuttings, which are left from making 
drains, were the perquisites of the men who did the 
work and could be bought for very Uttle ; but things 
have very much changed since I first lived here, and 
most of the roads are tarred, which quite ruins road- 
scrapings. I am told that the oil from motor cars 
is poisonous to animals, and dogs who get it on their 
paws are made ill if they lick it off. The dropping 
of black oil which so often disfigures one's carriage- 
drive can be prevented by a careful chauffeur. I 
shall be glad to know how you found your garden. 



10 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

I am extremely depressed by the forwardness of 
everything here ; more like the middle of March, and 
the Lent Hellebores, which, as their name implies, 
ought to flower much later, are nearly over, the only 
advantage being that one can move plants all through 
the winter. The increasing of sea-kale is a puzzle 
to some people. Here the big roots are taken up in 
November and put away in a dark shed in sand. 
Early in the year pieces are cut off the bottom of the 
root and each one of these will grow. They look 
quite hopeless, having no eye, and must be planted 
the thicker end uppermost. 

M. T. Eaele, 

Notes from Eedhazel. 

I have been a gardener all my hfe. In my old 
home I began as a tiny child to copy the gardener 
and grow flowers in my own small plot of ground, 
and I have had for years the pleasure of spending 
much time with one of the best and kindest of teachers. 
To absorb knowledge without realising one is doing 
so is a very easy way of learning, and an inquiring 
mind is all that is needed in order to gather up a store 
of useful information from Mrs. Earle in her Surrey 
garden. I cannot speak here of all I owe to her, but 
I wish it to be understood that most of what knowledge 
I possess of gardening and of many other matters I 
have gained directly or indirectly from her. The 
part of Hampshire in which I live was deforested 
only sixty years ago, and for thirty years nothing 
but corn was grown on much of the land. This, of 
course, had a very bad effect on the soil. 

If my account of the work I do in my garden is 



JANUARY II 

to be any help to others, I must begin by explaining 
the garden itself. The plot of ground on which the 
house stands is just under two acres, a little less than 
half is cultivated, and I look after the flowers entirely 
myself, only such things as grass-cutting and weeding 
of paths being done by others, and I have an old 
sailor who digs and plants the vegetable garden. Parts 
of the forest still remain, and my little place is on 
what was once the hunting-ground of the Bishops of 
Winchester. Before the forest was cut down, in about 
1760, a cottage was built and about half an acre of 
land cleared, and thirty years ago this was planted 
with apple-trees, and a small house was built to the 
north-east of the cottage and a lawn made in front. 
A peach house was also put up along the south side 
of the old cottage garden. The cottage still stands, 
and is very picturesque with the red tiles coming half- 
way down the front. Here I lived for three months 
while the house was altered, and I still keep for my 
own use the old oak-beamed kitchen as a garden-room 
in which to keep bulbs, tools, &c. The first thing I 
did to the garden was to cut up the little front lawns 
into long flower-beds, leaving strips of grass between 
to form paths. There is a straight path from the 
front door to the little low gate. This path is sixty- 
two feet long and five feet wide, and is bricked to 
within a foot of the beds, the border being of gravel, 
and at the edge of the beds there are stones over which 
the low-creeping plants love to grow and reach the 
gravel. There is twenty feet of grass at the front 
before you reach the road, and this I have rolled and 
cut. The long, straight road bordered with grass 
running slightly downhill away to the north to 



12 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

Winchester is a great joy to me, and my front view 
to the east gives me winter sunrises ; it is. all open 
country with downs and woods in the distance, and 
the larks come and sing right up to the house, and 
the sky on fine days, with floating clouds, interrupts 
my work with its perpetual changing beauty. The 
old cottage garden I keep very much as I found it, 
a jumble of plants in the big square beds, cut across 
by grass paths and surrounded by brick ones, and 
the part near the road on the south side of the front 
garden, and divided from it by a hedge, I keep for 
fruit and vegetables, planting no trees except four 
espaliers along the centre path and four trees against 
the hedge, and growing oialy bush fruit in a wire 
enclosure on one side, and vegetables on the other. 
The field goes round the garden on three sides, and 
behind the house are barn, cowsheds, and stables. 
The front part of the field at the north side of the 
house with a frontage along the road and most exposed 
to view, I have had railed off and joined to the front 
garden, and had dug what was intended to be a sunk 
path with a cement tank at the end, but ditch, canal, or 
swimming-bath would have described it better the first 
winter. This field being the lowest part of the garden, 
the sunk path successfully drained all the ground, and 
being three feet deep and seventy-three feet long, with a 
drop of two and a half feet, it naturally filled with 
water directly the tank at the bottom was full. This 
must be always taken into consideration in making 
a sunk path. This difi&culty was very puzzling 
at first, but at last I found that a ditch about sixty- 
three yards from the path was slightly lower than the 
top of the tank, and into this we drained the water 




Vera Wheeler, Photographer 

MISS ETHEL CASE AT REDHAZEL 



JANUARY 13 

by means of underground pipes. The sides of the 
path were sloped, and only the centre bricked, gravel 
being put at each side. Large stones in Hampshire 
are scarce, the native chalk flints can be got, but 
anything else costs a lot of money. I went to a local 
builder and found in his yard a lot of old red bricks, 
and with these we made square pocket-like port-holes 
all along both sides of the path and round the tank 
at the end. These pockets were all filled with fine 
sou and planted with things of restrained growth; 
the edge of the top beds have quick-growing things 
planted to fall over and cover the clay sides of the 
path. Two steps made of red brick lead down to the 
path, and on flat squares of brick on either side are 
a pair of big round terracotta vases made at Mrs. 
Watts's pottery at Compton, near GuUdford. The 
path was dug in October 1911, and a few plants 
put at the upper end, but the whole filled with water 
so quickly that it could not be properly planted till 
the water was drained off in the following March. 
Then the weather was so dry it was unsafe to put 
anything in that was at all precious, so it was April 
before any work could be finished, and yet, with all 
the drawbacks, September 1912 found the path 
already quite a success, and very little of the ugly 
clay sides in view. In making a garden toy of this 
sort, or a rock garden, it is very trying that one cannot 
cover the whole thing up with a tarpaulin until it has 
begun to look something like that to which one hopes 
it shall attain. It is very trying to have to repeat 
' Of course, it is all quite unfinished ' to everyone 
who looks at it, and one can so well picture the smile 
with which friends ask each other ' Did she show you 



14 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

what she calls her wall garden ? ' with a look that 
adds ' poor childish visionary.' To avoid the prolonga- 
tion of this trying period when bare earth is the most 
conspicuous thing to be seen, it is best to plant at 
once a piece of everything traiUng and quick growing 
of which you can get hold. Arabis, both single and 
double ; Alyssum saxatile ; all the common Saxifraga, 
such as S. unibrosa (London-pride), iS. mrginiensis, 
S. cerato'phylla; the Sedums S. acre, S. glaucum, 
S. Indium, &c. ; Cerastium, the grey-leaved 'Snow 
in Summer ' that bears white flowers in June and 
onwards; Iberis, or perennial Cand3rtuft; SanioUna 
Lavender- cotton, and Nepeta (Cat-mint). These will 
grow so fast that quite a respectable amount of vegeta- 
tion is soon assured, and they can be cleared away 
later on to make room for better things. The hedge 
that runs along the road the full width of the garden 
was so poor when I bought the place that it had to 
be cut down to two and a half feet, and the fir trees, 
which are my only shelter, having been planted too 
close together, had begun to Mil each other, and every 
other one had to be thinned out. This left me very 
much exposed, and though it is amusing to hear the 
remarks of passers-by, such as 'That's a nice Uttle 
place to have; I should like that and a couple of 
hundred a year,' yet I thought a screen would be an 
improvement, so I planted lilacs and quick-growing 
roses in a bed along the hedge and put groups of tall 
perennial sunflowers in between. This did fairly 
well. The lilacs were only pieces of a big old plant 
which had formed part of another hedge which ran 
between the front garden and the piece of field I 
took in, so they did not make much show last year. 



JANUARY 15 

Still, they were better than nothing. The hedge 
is about seven yards from the bed at the east side 
of the sunk path. This bed contains a few apple- 
trees and small flowering shrubs, and the spaces are 
at present filled in with perennials, which will be moved 
as the shrubs grow. The sunk path has wide borders 
at the top running parallel on either side, and a cemented 
tank three feet square at the bottom in which grows 
a water-lily. The old part of the garden has been so 
long in cultivation that the soil is light, easy to work 
and very fertile, but the new part is heavy, and below 
the surface stiff clay. When I had the long borders 
in the front and lawn round the house and either 
side of the sunk path made, four feet of earth was 
taken out, then brick rubbish and chalk thrown in 
and the turf on the top, grass side down. I have 
dressed them with wood ashes, stable manure, and 
road-scrapings. The peach-house is sixty-five feet long, 
and is buUt like the tomato-houses used by nursery- 
men, a deep path down the middle and beds of soil 
level with one's hands on either side. I have six 
peach-trees planted on the south side, and I keep 
the other for early vegetables and for wintering 
lettuce, cauliflowers, &c., and sowing seeds. I spend 
many wet days gardening under cover, and it is a 
great joy to me. I have no heat laid on, and the 
peaches are ripe at the end of July ; as the beds are so 
high on either side one can work with no fatigue 
of stooping. There is a httle greenhouse next the 
house on the south side which I have just had heated 
with a stove and double pipe twelve feet long, flow 
and return : a perfectly cold greenhouse is never 
satisfactory. The year 1911 was a very anxious, but 



i6 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

in some ways a very interesting one for gardeners. 
All abnormal conditions of climate, though trying 
to the temper, are, or ought to be, enlightening to the 
mind, as one learns so much by the losses the garden 
sustains. The continued drought during the summer 
and autumn was the death of many plants and shrubs, 
then the spell of wet, mild weather for the four following 
months forced plants to make weak, sappy growth, 
whichsuffered cruelly when the long-delayed frost came. 
I share my little home with many friends of what 
are called the dumb creation, but how far from dumb 
are they in reality! A properly trained dog who is 
talked to daily will soon be able to say what he wants, 
not only by eye language, with which knowledge they 
are born, but to whine in the right tone of voice and 
with the right inflection ; low for asking and high for 
expostulation ; long for sorrow and short for aimoyance 
and impatience ; and a whine, accompanied by a yawn 
and a shake of the head, is the cleverest expression of 
boredom I ever saw. All animals talk a little. The 
goat's bleat of disgust at being offered any food already 
sniffed at by another is accompanied by a camel-like 
curl of the lip. The big sow will grunt a greeting when 
too overcome with serving table d'hote to a family of 
twelve to open even one eye. The three dogs are a 
great contrast to one another. ' Jane,' my fox-terrier, 
is the smallest and the most important. I have known 
her family intimately for years, and had her grand- 
mother at the age of one month. ' Arcles,' a sable 
and white Shetland collie, is her constant companion, 
but the big wolf-hound, ' Ehoda,' is too large for the 
house, and spends her time in the barn or the paddock. 
She is white and lemon coloured, and as big as a St. 



JANUARY 17 

Bernard. The three playing together make a funny- 
trio. Four cats are also oddly ill-matched, a large 
brown Persian aged t-wenty, a small dark-grey Chinchilla 
mother with a tiny dark kitten, and an ordinary tabby, 
aU quite jEriendly and at home with the rest of the 
animals ; but one tragedy I must admit. ' Jane ' 
killed a son and daughter of the Nun pigeons ; I 
suppose she thought Nuns had no business to have a 
family. In any case, they were done to death, and 
reminded me of the old story of the keeper of the happy 
family of lion, wolf, bear, goat, &c. On being asked 
if keeping them all in the same cage was a success, 
replied : ' Oh, yes, quite all right ; but occasionally 
we have to renew the goat.' 

This year I have been wise in my generation with 
regard to covering plants which are not quite hardy. 
Last year I left home on January 2, having taken all 
the precautions I could think of, covering roots with 
coal ashes, and branches with bracken, and had erected 
little huts of brick and glass over some outdoor Nea- 
poHtan violets, but, fool that I was, the most tender 
thing of all I left utterly unprotected, Coronilla glauca, 
a charming half -tender shrub with yellow flowers which 
blooms here out-of-doors all the winter. When I left 
it, it was covered with buds, and looked so strong and 
healthy that I forgot its constitution was not hardy. 
On my return home I flew to see what I expected would 
be a corpse to reproach me for my neglect. To my 
surprise, I found the little shrub, which grows on the 
north side of the front porch, quite happy and smiling 
next to the only dead wallflower in the garden. I 
think when the frost came that wallflower took the 
Coronilla's share as well as its own, for all the other 



i8 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

wallflowers were qtdte untouched, and the Coronilla 
is not hardy, even in Surrey. Par from being killed 
as I expected, it soon opened one yellow flower, but I 
shall never risk it again. The other lesson I learnt 
(or rather had driven home, for I cannot plead igno- 
rance, it was downright thoughtlessness that made me 
so careless) was in the greenhouse. Why, oh, why 
was I so utterly idiotic as to leave my precious big 
plants of ' Prince of Orange ' scented Pelargonium on 
a shelf near the ^lass of the greenhouse instead of 
putting them on the shelf next the wall of the house ? 
Of course they died, for this most sweet of all the 
scented Pelargoniums is the most tender of these 
charming plants. The old oak-leaved and ' Pretty 
Polly ' stood the cold perfectly, and even ' Clorinda,' 
growing in a bed with its branches against the glass, 
only lost a few shoots, and had I been at home to put 
paper between the glass and the plant I think this 
would not have happened. ' Oh ! yes, I don't deny 
as women are fools. God Almighty made 'em so to 
match the men.' ^ 

I came home on January 18 after a visit in Surrey 
to find very little change in the garden. There have 
been only a few slight frosts. Everything is growing as 
it did in October. To keep pace with the rest of Nature 
this curious forward season, I have nineteen little 
chicks out. Some plants I ordered from France have 
arrived, and I have been putting them in a new bed in 
the corner of the top paddock, which is to be the half- 
wild piece of garden. I planted all that came in one 
bed as they are young, and after the first year I shall 
see what must come out and be moved elsewhere. 

^ George Eliot. 



JANUARY 19 

Bambusa Metake is the only one that is safe to move in 
winter. I put a purple sycamore {Acer pseudo-Pla- 
tanus), and a sugar-maple {A. saccharmum), at the back. 
They are over five feet already. Some hardy azaleas I 
put by themselves with a good shovelful of peat at the 
root of each. The condition in which these come from 
Holland is a great lesson in firm planting ; the soil is 
Uke a stone round their roots, and none of it falls away 
even in travelling. Two Crataegus — Crus-gaUi (thorn- 
cockspur) and G. Pyracantha, three dog-woods {Cornus 
sibirica, C. sanguinea, C. florida), will all be bright in 
the autumn. The copper-beech Fagus purpurea will 
be at its best in the spring. When it is a httle bigger 
it must be moved, as it is a fairly fast grower. AU 
beeches love chalk, as may be seen on the Downs 
in Surrey near Leatherhead, where they abound 
and grow to great perfection. I risked a Genista 
alba, it is quite small, and may survive, but they are 
bad to transplant, except very young, at any time. 
Gymnocladus canadensis (the Kentucky-tree), Hedy- 
sarum multvjugwm are new to me, and wiU be quite 
an excitement in the summer. Prunus sinensis 
rosea (the double pink plum), is lovely to cut for the 
house when in bud. Ehv^ atropurpurea is the purple 
smoke-tree. Salix japonica is a Japanese willow. 
Sorbus domestica is the true service-tree, and I am 
consumed with curiosity to know the reason for the 
name ; it has, I suppose, to do with the use of the fruit. 
Tamarix gallica will, I hope, know by instinct that the 
sea is only nine miles away. I got also some purple 
filberts to plant in front of the hedge and three Daphne 
Mezereum, but this is very inclined to turn up its nose 
at any but a real cottage garden. AU round this little 

02 



20 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

piece of paddock I have planted primroses, and am 
making a few beds for little colonies of half- wild plants 
such as the common mullein (Verbascum phlomoides), 
evening primrose {Oenothera biennis). The old colum- 
bine {Aquilegia vulgaris), double cuckoo flower {Car- 
damme pratensis fl. pi.) and the early flowering forget- 
me-not {Myosotis dissitifolia) and the water forget-me- 
not and M. palustris for the damper parts. Along the 
hedge and under the trees where the ground sinks a 
ditch is being dug ; it will have water in all the winter, 
but probably run dry in the summer : this does not 
matter, as the principal thing is that I shall have two 
banks, one shady and one hot and dry on which to 
plant half-wild things and some brambles, which are 
most useful fruit in the autumn to have so close at 
hand, and the damp root-run will just suit them. 
When I came here I put brick paths almost every- 
where, but left one little-used path with gravel ; it 
has worried me ever since. I found myself constantly 
requiring to take visitors that way, and in wet weather 
it became a swamp, and I was ashamed of it. At last 
I have had it bricked, two one way and two the other, 
with a line of uprights on either side. Eighteen yards 
took 850 bricks (wire-cuts) and it took a man not 
quite two days to lay them. 

20th. — I see there is a traveUing acting company 
in the village, and I am reminded of a play I once 
saw given in a village hall by a company who were on 
tour. They acted a different play every night, and I, 
with a friend, decided to go to one that was intended to 
be serious, as it was sure to be amusing ; we were not 
disappointed. The heroine, dressed in a pink satin dress 
veiled with black lace and ' cut low,' was a bigamist. 



JANUARY 21 

In the first act she pushed her first husband down a 
well, in the second she tried to stab a nephew, in act 
three, scene one, she set fire to a house, and in scene two 
she went mad, which was the least surprising part of 
the play. All this took place on a stage the size of 
a hearth-rug. The rest of the company were dressed 
in the clothes that they happened to have with them, 
and frock-coats and top-hats were worn at a country 
house all day. The town band, perspiring freely, 
played the same tune from different music before and 
after every act ; it was a large band with large in- 
struments, and occupied one-sixth of the hall and used 
all the air, and there was also a wheezy piano which 
apparently had only fourteen notes, and it tried to 
follow the action of the play with appropriate music ; 
high for comedy and bass for tragedy. The moment 
we stopped laughing at the play the piano started us 
off again, and we soon got into the condition when we 
did not want to laugh any more, but nothing could 
stop us. If anyone is depressed I recommend a village 
dramatic entertainment to cheer them up. 

There is not very much gardening that is essential 
to January, but I have been busy every day clearing 
away things left untidy in the autumn, and taking up 
Michaelmas daisies which think the garden was made 
for them. Sweet peas can be sown in pots now for 
planting out later, but if you grow them in any 
quantity they are test sown out-of-doors in February. 
I have made the trench this week — two feet deep 
with a foot of manure and half a foot of soil, and 
the trench left half a foot deep. Lawns should be 
thought of now. We have rolled the grass when- 
ever the weather was dry for two days in succession. 



22 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

and next •week the grass will be top-dressed with 
a mixture of soot, road grit, and well-rotted manure 
and leaf-mould. This must be left on until March, 
when most of it will have been drawn down by 
worms, and the rest can be swept up. I have no 
moss, but grass that is infected in that way must 
be scratched with a small-toothed rake and the 
lawn dressed with wood ashes. I have been work- 
ing in the peach-house on wet days taking cuttings 
of chrysanthemums : I find all cuttings root quicker 
in a mixture of fine soil, road grit, and coconut 
fibre than in anything else. Deep boxes with some 
pieces of glass on top resting on the sides and ends 
are excellent for putting the pots of chrysanthemum 
cuttings in, as the close atmosphere enables them 
to strike quickly, and they need no water at this time 
of the year. I am having a shelf fixed up in the green- 
house under the bench and over the hot pipes. It will 
be dark, and have a bottom heat, and economise space. 
On this I shall put the boxes of half-hardy annual 



21st. — I wrote to-day for seed potatoes, to get 
them in boxes as soon as possible that they may set 
or sprout before sowing. This year I shaU try ' May 
Queen ' and ' Empress ' as the early sort. The hotbed 
was made in December, as I was going away from home ; 
the description is in ' Gardening for the Ignorant.' 
January is not too late, but as the bed takes quite a 
fortnight to prepare, it is well to think of it early. The 
joy of gardening is the constant looking forward, and 
now the hotbed can be sown, it seems like spring. 
Some of the ground that was not manured in the autumn 
has been prepared this week for onions, and the space 



JANUARY 23 

between the currant bushes in the -wire fruit enclosure 
is being got ready for broad beans. I have marked 
the frame to be sown while I am away ; the top half 
of the one side will carry one hne of horn-carrots, 
two lines of spring onions, and one of early-forcing 
turnips ; in the rest of the frame cabbage lettuce will 
be sown broadcast ; in the other frame the top half 
will be sown with round-leaved spinach, and after one 
line of early French radish will come some half-hardy 
annuals, the trailing lobelia, antirrhinums, and Mar- 
guerite carnations. The pea trenches are being dug and 
well manured, but I doubt if I shall risk a sowing this 
month. The dwarf early kinds are sown in pots and 
stood in the greenhouse, one seed in a pot of the smallest 
size so that they can be planted out with no risk 
of disturbing the roots. We are sowing spinach out- 
of-doors, as the loss, if killed by frost, will not be very 
great. Cucumbers and tomatoes are sown in pots in 
the greenhouse. The globe artichokes had some coal 
ashes put round them last month, but a little straw 
litter has been put on the bed as well. The rhubarb 
bed is covered with fresh stable manure, and pots have 
been put over the most forward of the plants. So far, 
parsley has been unhurt in the open, but I have taken 
some up and put it under glass, so we are safe to have 
a supply even if it is killed in the open. 

22nd. — The weather is still most extraordinarily 
mild, and one is constantly reading in the paper 
letters from garden-lovers enclosing boasting lists 
of plants in flower, which I find are curiously irri- 
tating to read, and yet, when yesterday I saw a fine 
spike of blue lupin out in a garden at Welhngton, 
Berks, I wanted to publish the fact. The buds are 



24 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

beginning to get to a tempting size, so the small fruit- 
bushes and gooseberries and currants should be dusted 
with lime on a damp day. The powder that falls on 
the ground will do nothing but good. We are sowing 
onions now in the peach house ; planted out in April 
they will make the best bulbs, and there is no trouble 
with maggots. For those who cannot have any kind 
of frame or hotbed, a few radishes may be sown in a 
sheltered border after January 15. For those who 
like early sea-kale a pit should be prepared by taking 
out two feet of earth the size of a frame, making up 
the soil with leaf mould and well-rolled manure, and 
planting some good roots of sea-kale, then boards must 
be put across the pit, which must be surrounded by 
turf and wood on which the planks can rest, and on 
these place three feet of fresh stable manure, leaving 
it for a month before you examine it. 

23rd. — In the greenhouse I am sowing tomatoes, 
early cauliflower and celery of a smaU old sort. A 
neighbour last week brought my cook a root of his 
enormous celery with great pride. She just tasted 
it, and asked him to taste mine. ' Well,' he said, ' I 
must own Miss Case beats me ; mine has no flavour 
next to that.' I sow mustard and cress every week 
to keep up a supply for the house. Peas are 
qxiite the most satisfactory vegetable crop if well 
grown, as everyone seems to like them, but they 
do need a good deal of trouble and attention, and 
must be thought about before they are sown. The 
trenches should be prepared weU in advance and the 
seeds ordered this month. Few amateurs reaUse the 
many varieties of peas, and that the earliest sorts are 
also the latest ; that is, they are quick growers and do 



JANUARY 25 

best for March and August, saving the better kinds 
of the marrowfat sort ; such as ' Early Giant,' 'Ideal,' 
' Gradus,' &c., do best sown in April. When making your 
list the dwarf sorts will be useful for small gardens. 
' Eight Weeks,' ' Forcing,' ' Dwarf Favourite,' ' Early 
Dwarf,' and ' Seedling Marrowfat ' are all good low- 
growing peas. They need no sticks, which saves 
labour. Even a light soil will repay good culture, 
so get your trenches dug as recommended in ' Gardening 
for the Ignorant.' This year I intend to sow my early 
peas on a patch of new ground that carried potatoes 
last year : it faces east, and is protected from the north 
by a high hedge : it was well manured in the autumn, 
and has had only a few rows of broccoU planted at wide 
distances in September, so will not require very much 
manuring, as my ground is heavy. In taking in any 
fresh land for cultivation, it is well to grow only such 
things as will stand rather rough treatment for the 
first two years, as the weeds that remain in the over- 
turned turves are very hard to kiU, and to grow annuals 
in such soil is hopeless, as the weeds choke the seedlings, 
and to weed is to pull up aU that is growing. Potatoes, 
artichokes (Jerusalem), and aU the big cabbage and 
kale tribe can be grown in rows with plenty of room 
for weeding between. Mere hoeing is useless when 
docks and other long-rooted weeds are in the soil. 

There is always a knack in doing things. I found 
to-day, when putting potatoes on end to sprout in 
boxes, that the irritating habit they have of falling 
about is best frustrated by putting some crinkled 
newspaper at the bottom of the box and drawing up 
a slight ridge between the rows ; also, if you have the 
box tilted shghtly towards you the potatoes rest against 



26 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

each other and do not roll on their sides. Without 
these two precautions one needs ten fingers on each 
hand. 

Mrs. Earle and I thought it hest to put the 
vegetarian recipes at the end of each month, as they 
are intended to be a help in using those vegetables and 
herbs which are in season, and substituting dishes 
made of cereals, pulses, &c., in those months when 
vegetables are difficult to procure. On the subject of 
a non-meat diet, she writes : 

' All the schools of vegetarian cookery that I know 
of. make the same mistake of trying to imitate the 
strong flavour that belongs to meat foods ; most of 
the extracts sold to add to soups are made of mush- 
rooms, and disagree vilely with many people. Onions 
and herbs judiciously used are the correct flavourings 
for vegetarian savouries, but it is no use giving people 
what they do not like, and some people prefer sweet 
fruits and spices, as red-currant jelly and cranberries 
are used by mixed feeders. So many vegetarian 
cookery books give recipes for dishes which are 
to be fried. This I think a great mistake, as unless 
frying is very well done it is an objectionable way of 
preparing food and always expensive, the success 
depending on the skill of the cook and the amount 
of really good butter that is used. All dishes that are 
prepared for frying can be equally well baked, with 
the exception of fritters, which must be fried in deep 
butter, and in a frying basket. The temptation to 
give highly flavoured food and much variety to those 
who are beginning the diet is really a long way round 
for a short cut, as the sooner the health of the patient 
is established by eating plain food the sooner will 



JANUARY 27 

come an appreciation of simple, wholesome food. 
The cooking of plain rice and all the varieties of 
Italian macaroni and pastes, only to be got at a first- 
class grocer who sells Italian goods, such as Forder 
in Motcome Street, S.W., is really the foundation of 
cookery for simple feeders. 

' The fact that all the fireproof dishes that were 
BO long used only on the Continent, and a short time 
ago could be bought only at a few shops in London, are 
now on sale in every town, is a proof that people have 
awakened to the fact that good vegetarian cooking can- 
not be done in iron pots, but it is extraordinary how 
conservative people are and how difficult it is to change 
the habits and food of a nation, and many house- 
wives still furnish their kitchen at the ironmonger's. 
Another advantage of the fireproof crockery is that 
the dishes can come into the dining-room, which saves 
the extra labour of dishing up and the cooling process 
of turning the food from one dish to another, and does 
away with the old plated dishes in which the food 
soon got cold unless it was served in very large 
quantities. It is a sad thing that the cooking of 
vegetables abroad, which at one time was so excellent, 
has degenerated into what is supposed to please the 
British tourist, viz. badly treated tiimed peas. The 
great fault in cooking all vegetables of the cabbage 
tribe is cooking in far too much water and using salt 
and soda ; also, many cooks do not understand that 
vegetables lose their flavour if boiled for too long a 
time, and no vegetable that is so old and tough as 
to require long cooking is fit, to eat except to make 
stock as a foundation for soup. The pulses, which 
consist of peas, beans, lentils (German and Egyptian), 



28 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

Indian Dall, and pea-nuts, are condemned by the strictly 
scientific food reformers, and this should be especially 
noticed by sufferers from rheumatism, gout, neuralgia, 
arthritis, ansBmia, or skin complaints, but for healthy 
and young people who are able to take exercise these 
foods make useful changes and have a high proteid 
value. We therefore include various recipes con- 
taining pulses which can be used at discretion. The 
harmfulness of peas and beans seems to be magnified in 
their dried state, and young peas and French beans 
are comparatively harmless in summer time. When 
salt is mentioned, in all these recipes only a pinch 
is intended.' 

CREAM OF BARLEY 
(From 'Lady Dudley's Cookery Book') 
Place one pint of white vegetarian stock (from 
macaroni, rice, and beans) on the fire to boil. Mix 
up two tablespoonfuls of cream of barley — barley 
soaked— boiled for some hours and pressed through 
a sieve will do, but the dry preparation is the best — 
with a little new irdlk. Add this to the boiling soup, 
stirring it in while it boils for a few minutes, then add 
one gill of cream, and strain. Serve some French 
barley, which has been cooked, with the soup. 

FORCE-MEAT BALLS 

Kub a breakfast-cupful of bread crumbs with a 
dessertspoonful of parsley, thyme, and mint. Mix 
with an egg, form into balls and fry. These can be 
used to drop into brown soups five minutes before 
serving, or they can be served with plain rice. 



JANUARY 29 

ARTICHOKE SOUP 
(From 'Sidney. Beard's Guide Book') 

Take one pound of white artichokes, three pints 
of water, three large onions, a piece of celery, half 
a pint of raw cream, or one pint of milk. Boil to- 
gether for forty-five minutes, strain through a fine 
sieve and serve. If the cream is used, add it just 
before serving. 

BROWN SODP 
(From ' Broadland's Cookery Book ') 

Slice an onion and put in an earthenware stew-pan 
with three ounces of butter. Fry till brown. Add 
half a pint of boiling water. Stir till well mixed. 
Cut up three young carrots, two turnips, and a stick 
of celery. Eub two onions well but do not peel. 
Stick them with cloves and add all the mixture in 
the stew-pot. Add two quarts of water and simmer 
gently, well covered, till reduced by half, strain and 
serve. This soup can be thickened by mixing a little 
flour with some of the liquid and boil all for ten minutes 
after adding to the rest of the soup. 

SAVOURY RICE PUDDING 

One teacupful of rice, three large onions, one 
mealy potato, one white of an egg, four ounces of 
butter and a little chopped celery and sweet herbs, 
one pint of water. Wash the rice and boil it in a 
saucepan with the onions cut up small, the potato 
and celery in a pint of water till the rice is quite swelled 
and has taken up all the water. Take the pan off 
the fire and mix in thoroughly the butter, herbs, well- 



30 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

whipped white of an egg, and turn into a buttered 
basin and steam two hours. Serve with Maitre 
d'h6tel sauce. For those who dislike onion, tomato 
may be used instead, and the sauce may be made of 
chopped pickle or gherkins. 

SAVOURY PIE 

Half-pint each of bread crumbs and mashed potato, 
one hard-boiled egg cut small, chopped parsley and 
thyme, a little piece of butter melted. Bind all to- 
gether with a beaten egg, place in a pie-dish and bake. 

CHESTNUT SOUFFLS 
(From ' Herald of the Golden Age ') 

BoQ one pound of chestnuts tiU tender, remove 
the skins and pass through a net, well moisten with 
quarter-pint of nulk and half ounce of butter (melted), 
the yolks of three eggs and lastly the whites beaten 
to a stiff froth. Pour into a greased souffl6 dish and 
bake quickly. 

BRAISED RICE AND CELERIAO 

Blanch half a cupful of Patna rice and weU drain. 
Chop a medium-sized onion and fry in butter ; add 
rice and half a pint of vegetable stock, cover it down. 
Put in a hot oven for half an hour. Peel three roots 
of celeriac, blanch in boiling water for five minutes. 
Put a piece of butter the size of an egg into a 
stewpan to melt, shce one onion and one apple 
and fry brown ; add two tablespoonfuls of curry 
powder [Army and Navy Stores, Atkinson (Windsor)] 
and celeriac, half a pint of stock, a small bunch of 
herbs, and stew for half an hour. Dish on the braised 
rice. 



JANUARY 31 

cbSme de topinambovbs 

Half a pint of milk boiled and turned to custard with 
four eggs. Boil one pound of artichokes, pass them 
through a sieve, cool the custard and whip in the 
pur^e of artichokes, half -gill of whipped cream, put 
in a plain mould buttered, and steam forty minutes. 
Pour some tomato sauce on the top. 

LENTILS 

Soak lentils twelve hours, then strain, put in hot 
water and boil rapidly. Cook for one hour, drain 
well, put back into boiling water and cook till soft. 
Pass through a sieve and put into a saucepan with two 
ounces of butter, a httle onion juice, and stir for a 
quarter of an hour over the fire. Add two table- 
spoonfuls of cream and serve. 



FEBBUABY 

Going to London — Visit to Bethlehem Hospital — ^Eingwood — ' The 
English Review ' and the Bluebottle — Plants and Bulbs under 
Glass — Flowering Shrubs — ^A Bee Superstition — Unusual Plants 
— A Wet Day — ^Vegetarian Recipes. 

This little anonymous poem, which was in a Pall Mall 
some years ago, puts into words what I feel when I 
first come to London for a monthly visit to my son. 
London is very wonderful and very beautiful when 
one only sees it now and then, but I, luckily, always 
get back to my garden with joy, even in the cold dull 
days of March. I am a real country-lover like you. 

There is a charm in the ring of the pavement. 
And the dull roar and rattle of wheels. 

There is charm in the gloom of the city, 
That the Artist in aU of us feels. 

Southwark Bridge— and our father the River, 

St. Faid's as it looms over aU, 
And the subtle grey tone of the vapour. 

That broods o'er the town like a pall. 

But the charm that they bring is a sad one. 

As sad as the looks of the place ; 
And it's oh ! to be climbing a hillside. 

With the sting of the wind in my face ! 

With the sting of the wind in my face, lad. 

And the calling of sheep on my ear ; 
And the murmurous music of stream, lad. 

Oh ! it's these that I'm longing to hear. 
32 



FEBRUARY 33 

Being in London, I asked a friend, who I knew 
could get an order, to take me to see the Eoyal Hospital, 
Bethlehem, commonly called ' Bedlam.' It is now in 
the Lambeth Eoad. I can hear you saying ' Why 
did you want to go ? ' Well, I will try and tell you. 
First, it is one of the oldest charities in London. 
Henry VIIL, in 1547, gave the old building of the dis- 
solved priory, founded by Simon Fitzmary in 1247 
as a priory for the Sisters and Brethren of the Order of 
the Star of Bethlehem, to the City of London in order 
that it might be converted into a hospital for lunatics ; 
and in 1557 the management was handed over to Bride- 
well Hospital, formerly a palace, in which the whole of 
the third act of Shakespeare's ' Henry VIH.' is supposed 
to take place, close to the Fleet river. Wolsey had a 
residence allowed him in the Bridewell, and it was 
Edward VL who gave it to be a workhouse for the poor 
and a house of correction. The site of the original 
Bethlehem Hospital was known as Old Bethlehem 
(afterwards Liverpool Street) in the seventeenth 
century. Bedlam, as it was familiarly called even in 
the time of Sir Thomas More, had become one of the 
sights of London, and so continued till towards the 
end of the eighteenth century. An Act of Parliament 
was passed in 1810 sanctioning the exchange and re- 
moval of the hospital. The Government granted a 
sum of £72,819 towards the necessary expenses, the 
City Corporation added £5000, the City Companies 
contributed hberally, and £5700 was raised by public 
subscription. The first stone of the new building, 
designed by James Lewis, was laid April 1812, and 
finished in 1815 at a cost of £122,572. It is a very 
handsome building, and was enlarged in 1843 and 1868. 



34 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

It is managed by a Board, and has an income, I am told, 
of over £40,000 a year, and, so far as a casual visitor 
could judge, it has every luxury and comfort. How 
different from the old Bedlam, where for one penny 
the public were allowed to divert themselves with a 
sight of the unfortunate lunatics ! The patients, both 
male and female, were chained to the wall, till 1815, 
when the notorious case of a man named Harris, who 
had lived for twelve years, conversing rationally and 
reading, yet chained to the wall by a ring round his 
neck and with iron bars pinioning his arms and waist, 
led to an inquiry in Parliament. My desire to visit 
Bedlam was not prompted by idle curiosity ; we were 
not shown any really bad cases, but my wish was to 
see and medically understand what was considered the 
most humane and modern treatment of the afflicted 
patients. All whose relations can afford it have some- 
thing paid for them towards their keep; they only 
remain one year, and if not cured are drafted off into 
country asylums. Favourable cases are sent down 
to the convalescent home at Witley, near Godalnaing. 
In this rich hospital six doctors and many nurses had 
under their charge 220 patients. The Pauper Lunatic 
Asylum at Dartford, which I went over a few years ago, 
contained 2400 patients. I am so convinced (and 
this has been confirmed by the opinion of doctors in 
Ireland, where insanity has so increased of late years) 
that it is a disease of the blood due, in many cases, 
to drugs, alcohol and other stimulants, especially 
tea, that I was anxious to know how the patients 
in the richest charity in London were fed. All 
alcohol is stopped at once ; so far this is quite good 
and modem, but they are fed up to the highest pitch 



FEBRUARY 35 

of the medical estimate of nourishment. If they do not 
take it they are forcibly fed. I was assured that they 
do not mind this, and as they do not struggle against 
it at all, the process is comparatively easy ; at least, so 
the doctors say. The bad cases are kept in bed. The 
young doctor who showed us round was very kind ; 
he said they cured about 50 per cent., and what was 
interesting was that a case of appendicitis, in spite of 
the high feeding, is very rare. No doubt the rest, and the 
fact that most of them are given aperients every night, 
partly account for this. I know that you will agree 
with me that, admitting that insanity is a disease 
of the blood, it is most extraordinary that no experi- 
ments with regard to non-meat diet should be tried. 
I heard afterwards that one of the directors had been 
told by a friend that I had been much shocked at what 
I heard of the feeding in the hospital. He immediately 
jumped to the conclusion that I thought the inmates 
were badly or under-fed, and at once gave my friend 
three or four menus to show me. These confirmed my 
worst fears — ^rich soup, fish, kidneys, bacon, beef, besides 
milk and eggs. The rooms for entertainment are very 
handsome and large, plays and balls are frequent in 
the winter, when, I was told, the patients are allowed 
out of bed. The famous statues of Melancholy and 
Madness by Caius Gabriel Gibber which used to stand 
over the gates of old Bedlam have been removed to 
the Guildhall Museum, where are also to be found some 
of the terrible instruments of restraint used in the old 
hospital. Needless to say, the interesting informa- 
tion I have given you I have not invented, but gathered 
from the ' Encyclopsedia Britannica ' and Augustus 
Hare's ' Walks in London.' 

d2 



36 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

You remember the beautiful box in my room that 
was my mother's dressing-box, given her when she 
married in 1834 ; when Asprey in Bond Street did it 
up in 1891 he said it was a very fine bit of ' Kingwood.' 
I said ' What is Kingwood, when it is growing ? ' 
and he did not know and looked at me as if he thought 
such a silly question had never been asked of the trade 
before ? A kind botanical friend did not laugh at me 
when I asked him the same question the other day, 
and gave me the following answer : ' The material 
of your beautiful old box is the wood of a species of 
Dalbergia, probably one of the Leguminosae. It comes 
from Brazil, and its origin is somewhat uncertain, as, 
like so many timbers, we know the wood, but are un- 
certain about the tree from which it comes. It is a 
small tree, and the billets used to be sent over from 
Brazil from two to seven inches in diameter. It is very 
seldom seen now, and the only information we can find 
about the wood comes from a paper written in 1864.' 

I find the ' English Eeview ' one of the most 
interesting of the cheaper magazines ; it is only a 
shilling. I took it in first because it published the 
wonderful Masefield Poems. In the January number 
of this year (1913) I was disappointed at finding 
nothing under Masefield's name, and had to console 
myself with a very different, but thrilling, article under 
the humble name of ' The Bluebottle,' which you 
must read when next you come here. It is written 
by a Frenchman called Henri Fabre, who is a well- 
known naturalist, and the article is translated by 
Alex. Teixeira de Mattos. The article gives a most 
interestiag account of the ways and methods both of 
the common bluebottle, which we know so well 



FEBRUARY 37 

(Calliphora vomitoria), and of the chequered flesh-fly 
(Sarcojpha^a carnaria). I had better quote the first 
few words of his article, which ought to be read by 
every householder : ' Everyone knows the first, the 
big, dark-blue fly, who, after effecting her designs in 
the ill-watched meatsafe, settles on our window-panes, 
and keeps up a solemn buzzing, anxious to be off in 
the sun and upon a fresh emission of germs. How 
does she lay her eggs ? — the origin of the loathsome 
maggot that battens poisonously on our provisions, 
whether of game or butchers' meat ? What are her 
stratagems and how can we foil them ? This is what 
I propose to investigate.' M. Fabre gives us a detailed 
account of all his experiments, learning exactly how 
the fly lays her eggs inside the beak or the eyes or in 
a wound, when she has access to meat or dead birds. 
In a couple of days the eggs are matured and the 
maggots develop inside the bird or in crevices in the 
meat, as they are always laid in the dark. The 
bluebottle only lays her eggs when she has access 
to the meat or bird. The flesh-fly, on the contrary, 
because she lays living grubs, not eggs, is content 
with the smell of the meat, and this fly is able to 
drop its grubs through the wire meshes of the meat- 
covers commonly used, confident in the fact that the 
maggots will find the food for their maintenance 
inside. Having tried several interesting experiments 
with bluebottles and flesh-flies on exposed meat 
and birds, he then wraps some dead hnnets in paper 
parcels, which prevent the flies from having access 
to the birds ; the result astonishes him. He says : 
' The parcels containing the linnets are left for a 
whole year uncovered on the table ; they remain there 



38 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

for a second year or a third. I inspect the contents 
from time to time. The little birds are intact, with 
unruffled feathers, free from smell, dry and light, 
like mummies. They have become, not decomposed, 
but mummified. I expected to see them putrefying, 
running into sanies, like corpses left to rot in the 
open air. On the contrary, the birds have dried and 
hardened without undergoing any change. What 
did they want for their putrefaction ? Simply the 
intervention of the fly. The maggot, therefore, is 
the primary cause of dissolution after death ; it is 
above all the putrefactive chemist.' What lessons 
may be drawn from this as regards the preservation 
of game and meat during the fly season? If the 
game were wrapped in paper directly it is shot (news- 
papers will serve the purpose) and sent to its destination 
and kept in its paper cover, the game would never 
become loathsome with vermin as is so often the case. 
A curious fact, corroborative of M. Fabre's experi- 
ment of keeping the dead linnets wrapped in paper, 
was told me by someone who was present when the 
tomb of Charles I, at Windsor, was opened by order, 
that the body was found absolutely intact, but quickly 
crumbled to dust when exposed to the air. We all 
remember the execution of Charles took place in 
January. 

M. Fabre gives a valuable hint for the preservation 
of our clothes from moths. ' Paper is equally successful 
in our strife against the moths, those plagues of our 
furs and clothes. To keep away these wholesale 
ravagers, people generally use camphor, naphthaline, 
tobacco, bunches of lavender and other strong-scented 
remedies. Without wishing to malign those pre- 



FEBRUARY 39 

servatives, we are bound to admit that the means 
employed are none too effective. The smell does 
very little to prevent the havoc of the moths.' The 
article concludes with the following sentence, which 
does away for ever with the old assertion of the worms 
in the grave : ' In the hope of awakening us to a due 
sense of our insignificance, pulpit orators sometimes 
make an unfair use of the grave and its worms. Let 
us put no faith in their dreary rhetoric. The chemistry 
of man's final dissolution is eloquent of our emptiness : 
there is no need to add imaginary horrors. The worm 
of the sepulchre is an invention of cantankerous minds 
incapable of seeing things as they are. Covered by 
but a few inches of earth, the dead can sleep their 
quiet sleep : no fly will ever come to take advantage 
of them. At the surface of the soil, exposed to the 
air, the hideous invasion is possible ; ay, it is the 
invariable rule. For the melting down and remoulding 
of matter, man is no better, corpse for corpse, than the 
lowest of the brutes. Then the fly exercises her 
rights and deals with us as she does with any ordinary 
animal refuse. Nature treats us with magnificent 
indifference in her great regenerating factory, placed 
in her crucibles, animals and men, beggars and kings, 
are one and all alike. There you have true equality, 
the only equality in this world of ours ; equality in 
the presence of the maggot.' 

What I have never been able to understand is 
how, on the South African plains, the clever mother- 
fly is deceived by the carrion smell of the Stapelia 
hirsuta, and the maggots die from not being able to 
live on smell alone. I find no allusion to this in any 
of my more modern books, but the story is given with 



40 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

a plate and every detail, in ' Picturesque Botany,' by 
Eobert John Thornton, M.D., a book which has been 
so often pulled to pieces in order to sell the beautiful 
plates separately, to frame them for decorating walls. 
The book came out at the time of the great excitement 
overLinnaeus' discovery of sex in plants. 

M. T. Eaele. 

Noie? from Bedhazel. 

If one has any heat in one's greenhouse it is very 
amusing to slightly force some flowering shrubs this 
month. I took up to-day from the open ground a 
Japanese cherry {Prunus pseudo-Cerasus) and dropped 
it into a pot with as much earth as possible on its root, 
and brought it into the warm greenhouse, syringing 
it with a little tepid water and giving very little at 
the roots. The Mexican orange flower {Choisya) is 
a good plant to force, as it is evergreen, and looks well 
in the greenhouse at once. The first year I came 
here I put in some cuttings of flowering currant Bibes 
sanguineum, and one of these is a nice size to force, 
being just two years old. Spiraea prunifolia flore 
fleno, which sounds such an unnecessarily long name, 
but really only describes the flower as being like a 
double plum, is far prettier forced than when it comes 
out rather patchily in the garden. The greenhouse 
at Kew is the place to learn all that can be done in 
the way of having outdoor plants in bloom in the 
greenhouse a month or two earlier than is natural. 
Last year I saw a splendid group of Madonna liUes 
that had been taken up when the flower stems were 
three feet high and the buds forced out in heat. I have 
been bringing in pots and bowls of bulbs to force them 



FEBRUARY 41 

on a little for the house. Tulips need a little extra care 
and managing as a rule ; most bulbs have a tendency 
to grow much too long in the stalk, and the difficulty 
of tying them up to sticks which have no grip of the 
soft coconut fibre is one of the disadvantages of bulb- 
growing in bowls, but tulips have quite another 
disposition, which is to burst into flower with necks 
two inches long, and squeeze themselves out of their 
sheaf of pale green leaves before' they are ready to 
make a graceful show. The way to correct this is to 
be very watchful as to the growth, looking at them 
in the dark every few days and bringing them to the 
hght when they show about four inches of growth ; 
do not put them in a good place at once, but somewhere 
warm and dimly lighted. If your hot pipes run under 
the stage of your house and you can prop up some 
sort of shelf there, it is an ideal place for the tulip 
bowls, or in a warm room just below the window so 
that they have to grow to reach the light, but they 
must be brought into the middle of the room at night, 
as the window is, of course, the coldest place in the 
room, except when the sun shines, and turn the bowls 
round every day or they will not grow on one side. On 
the other hand, narcissi, daffodils and hyacinths 
should be put on a top shelf near the glass so that 
they flower without getting too drawn up. Crocus 
and scillas are only worth doing if you have stove heat, 
as they need forcing out all at once. A few flowering 
at a time with many gaps is not pretty. As there is 
no heat in the peach-house, the things in it are little 
earlier than outside, but the protection from damp is 
the great advantage, and my lettuce and endive sown 
last November look splendid. 



42 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

10th. — The weather remains open, so I am able 
to plant shrubs. This is rather an arduous task in 
this part of the country. If they are planted in the 
grass it means making such a very big hole ; if not, 
the roots become waterlogged. The old man who 
attends to the vegetables helps me with this sort of 
work. He finds me rather too quick and I hear he 
remarked as he sat down to tea, ' Well, Miss Ethel's 
given me hot work and a wet shirt to-day.' It is 
difficult to reahse when one feels active that others 
may not be able to work so fast. When first I came 
to the Chase the people of the village were much 
surprised with the amount of work I get through 
and the heavy digging I undertake. The old idea of 
the sort of work a ' lady ' should do still clings. I was 
talking to a boy this summer, who is at one of the 
up-to-date public schools, about the manual labour 
which they have introduced as part of the school-work. 
I claimed that I did more than he, as my spade-work 
was daily, while his was only one day a week. ' Oh, 
yes,' he said, ' but I know ladies' gardening — pottering 
round with a trowel.' As he is coming to stay with 
me, I only laughed, and have left him to see me work, 
when I think he will admit he was wrong. I am 
trying to have some unusual shrubs, but they are 
always rather more expensive than those which every- 
one grows, so I must be content with rather small 
specimens and have patience to let them grow. I have 
been noticing what I most admire in other gardens 
and taking notes at Kew and Wisley. The sound of 
the name Euonymus, to me, always calls up a vision 
of the yellow and green variegated shrubs grown so 
much in suburban and seaside gardens and to surround 



FEBRUARY 43 

recreation grounds, and which are planted with such 
fatiguing monotony along the front of so many coast 
places, and whose leaves are so often covered in summer 
with a veil full of tiny caterpillars. Augh! hut 
E. eurojpaeu^, the broad-leaved spindle-tree, is a different 
matter altogether. The fruit which it bears in the 
autumn is like a glorious crimson flower. It is a native 
of our hedges, and will grow almost anywhere, but 
is not often planted for effect. They do well in sandy 
soils, and are quite cheap to buy. The E. atropurfureus 
has purple leaves, and the fruits are wine-colour. 
E. leucocarfa is uncommon with fruit a clear ivory- 
white. E. coccinea is one of the best. The earliest 
flowering tree of all will soon be in bloom, Prunus 
Davidiana alba, the Chinese white almond-tree. Every 
year it grows long straight shoots, which, when covered 
with buds, should be cut and brought into the house, and 
they will flower in a warm room. About January, it 
begins to flower in the South, though February is 
the more usual time. In very severe winters the 
flower is killed. Whether it has flowered or not, the 
branches must be cut back in March. The Deutzias 
are a group of hardy shrubs that have been immensely 
improved by cultivation. They flower out-of-doors in 
summer, but are very useful if potted up in December 
and taken into a warm greenhouse in January to be 
forced into bloom for the house, but for the garden 
they are very ornamental. D. corymhiflora has white 
flowers, and it occasionally blooms in the late autumn 
as well as in June. D. discolor has wand-like shoots 
of two or three feet, crowded with clusters of rose- 
flushed flowers. D. gracilis, which flowers in May, is a 
small bushy shrub with white flowers ; it thrives on 



44 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

light sandy soil. D. g. rosea is a form of the other, 
but the flowers are rose and carmine. D. Lemoinei is 
another form raised by Messrs. Lemoine. D. parviftora 
is a handsome shrub of four- to five-feet stems, crowned 
in spring with heavy white clusters of flowers hke 
hawthorn. D. scdbra is a dwarf, and has white flowers 
with an orange centre. They begin to expand in May, 
and last a long while. 

The ways and words of the cottage people, especially 
of the generation passing away, are a never-failing 
source of interest if one keeps open ears. I heard to-day 
a very curious story showing how the old beUefs cling 
in out-of-the-way places. A friend told me that when 
her father died, a large and flourishing stock of bees 
belonging to the family all died in one night. The people 
on the farm all said, of course, it was because the 
bees had not been told. Some years afterwards the 
mistress of the house died, and an old farm-hand, who 
was talking to one of the daughters of the house 
concerning various things to be attended to, added 
confidentially, ' I have told the bees. Miss.' She at 
once asked him what he said. 'Well, I took the 
key,' he began. ' Took the key ? What, the front door 
key ? ' she asked. ' Oh no, miss, always back door 
key for bees — ^yes, I took the key, and I tapped the 
hive and I says to them, " There's been a death in the 
'ouse," I says, " but it won't make no difference to 
you." ' The bees did not die. 

One often hears people recommended to count their 
mercies, and I think the poor are very clever at finding 
bright spots in what, to us, would be a very dark sky. 
A poor man living in a village became deaf and blind, 
and a lady taking part in a concert at the schools was 



FEBRUARY 43 

surprised to see him in the front row. She remarked 
afterwards to the wife that he could surely find very 
little amusement in the entertainment. ' Oh, yes. 
Miss, he Ukes to go out ; you see, the smell is different ! ' 

20th. — We are cutting out and cutting back. The 
old Yew that stands at the corner of the house is very 
mixed up with an old apple-tree. I bore the drips 
and the too dark shade for two seasons, and it has only 
just struck me that a large jutting-out Umb of the 
apple-tree can be cut off with great advantage. Nothing 
is more curious in a garden that one sees every day than 
the way improvements come into one's mind like 
flashes. Things that are so obviously wrong seem 
unalterable, but one day an illuminating thought 
clears away the difficulty, and when the improvement 
is made one's thought is why on earth did I not do 
that sooner ? To return to the Yew, old trees are 
often ruined in appearance by the undergrowth being 
left on, which hides the great beauty of their stems. 
Mine was fuzzled up like a neglected poodle when I 
first came, but the groom prompted me by saying how 
dangerous it was to have Yews growing low where 
animals are about. It is true they do not come in the 
garden, but in slight general clippings the refuse might 
be thrown carelessly on the rubbish heap. We cut off 
all we could reach at once, and burned every scrap ; it 
is deadly poison to horses and cows. If you cut off 
a limb it will poison cattle who gnaw the bark. 

21st. — ^Last year I was shown a good many spring 
gardens, and though being full of bloom they could not 
fail to be beautiful, the monotony was quite extraordi- 
nary, considering they were all owned by garden-lovers. 
None of them had any wallflowers but the single 



46 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

German biennial {Cheiranihus al'pinus), and those 
called Erysimum canescens and E. rwpestre and E. 
Perofshianum, with its lovely orange flowers, all so 
easy to grow, were nowhere to be seen. Chei/ranthus 
(Harpur Crewe), a little double-flowered variety, is so 
uncommon that I was not surprised not to find it. 
It grows easily from cuttings. Even the lovely dark 
purple Honesty seems left to the cottage gardens. 
The white Honesty is very lovely in a shady place ; 
both grow so easily from seed. Anemone apennma 
should be grown everywhere in beds and in the grass, 
it is so cheap and it increases very readily. Pink and 
white double daisies seem out of fashion ; they look 
lovely planted in rough grass. All the shades of 
Aubrietia are easily raised from seed, so there is no 
reason why only the pale mauve should be grown. 
Many plants are seen repeated till one is almost tired 
of them in the village, but the same plant is unknown 
ten miles away. Some plants, from their attractive 
colouring or habit, leap into universal popularity at 
once, and are seen everywhere. This is usually the 
case when the plant is some old-fashioned thing that 
has had a bad fault eradicated by careful selection 
and hybridising ; the plant is taken up and improved 
by a clever grower and then advertised freely. This 
was the case with paeonies ; the old crimson kind was 
So short-lived as to be hardly worth growing ; also, 
it smelt strongly of fox — ^not an ideal scent for a 
flower — but it is now possible by selection to prolong 
the blooming period. The single and double varieties 
of paeonies give an enormous selection from which to 
choose, the scent of some of them is quite delicious ; 
and the leaves turn a beautiful colour in the autumn. 



FEBRUARY 47 

Besides the herbaceous kinds, there are the still more 

beautiful tree or Chinese paeonies, which flower in May. 

Sometimes the plant which comes into favour is a 

' sport ' which is Nature's own improvement, as in the 

case of the ' Dropmore ' variety of Anchusa italica, 

the ItaUan borage, now so constantly seen. But with 

all that seed or plant catalogues do, and with the 

constant mention of new varieties in papers and 

magazines, there still remains a very large number of 

plants which are quite easy to cultivate and are hardly 

ever seen in the generahty of gardens ; they, surely, only 

need to be better known to be widely grown. We have 

all met the selfish gardener who prides himself on 

having what others lack, and never gives away a seed 

or cutting, but the majority of those who love their 

plants hke to give and exchange, so if only a few people 

would take up some of the less well-known plants and 

bulbs it would do much to add to the interest and joy 

of horticulture, and it is the best of all recommendations 

for a plant to be seen in full growth and vigour. The 

attitude of so many amateurs about anything they do 

not grow themselves is one of great distrust ; they 

seem to think, because it does well with you, it is no 

proof that they can grow it, and year after year the 

same people praise the variety in my garden but make 

little or no attempt to step out boldly from the easy 

line of convention themselves. 

A spring flower not seen very often is Primula 
denticulata cashmeriana, quite easy to grow, and which 
increases readily. Its habit is that of a cowslip, and the 
flowers are densely packed on each stem and are 
light and dark purple ; it likes moisture, as does also 
P. japonica, the handsome Japanese crimson-flowered 



48 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

Primula which is now to be had in many shades of 
crimson shading to white. The EwphorUas (spurge 
family) are plants of distinct character not sufficiently 
appreciated, though the caper spurge is known to 
most people. E. Myrsinites is a rock-garden plant of 
great beauty with glaucous (blue-grey) leathery 
leaves particularly brilhant in winter. E. Wulfeni 
is a bold, handsome plant two to three feet high with 
tufts of grey-green leaves on the top of the thick 
purpUsh stems like a Uon's mane and fine yellow 
flowers in sunny seasons, and if you treat it as it likes 
— dry soil suits it best — but if it never flowered it 
would still be a handsome plant well worth cultivating. 
E. Characias has green and black flowers in the winter ; 
it is one and a half feet high. One plant I must 
mention which, with many sobs we own, has so far 
refused to dwell in either of our gardens for any length of 
time ; its culture has, in fact, become a sort of criterion 
of excellency in gardening skill, together with the 
successful growing of Tro'paeolum speciosum, which 
is another puzzler. The plant that conquers us 
is the double sweet rocket Hes'pens matronalis albo- 
-pleno. It seems to be dying out everywhere, which 
is ten thousand pities, as it is a most beautiful, unusual 
plant — ^the flower is hke a stock in shape, but so much 
more dainty, and is of the most delicate mauve, tinted 
white, like the pearl shades of an opal. The difficulty 
of its management Ues in the dividing and transplanting 
after flowering. It should be broken up and each piece 
planted in the shade and moved back into the border 
the following spring. The difficulty we found was that 
there was nothing to move back, as the pieces had 
quietly died, but where it is happy it grows and 



FEBRUARY 



49 



flourishes, and is a joy worth any trouble, and the added 
quality of favouring few people makes it so attractive 
to the happy few. Many people grow the annual 
Linarias, but few realise the existence of the beautiful 
perennial one, L. dalmatica ; it flowers the first year 
from seed, is three feet high, and has beautiful glaucous 
foliage. A charming little shrub-Uke plant which 
attracts one's attention by its silvery leaves, even in 
winter, excites great surprise when the name is asked 
for ; it is called Convolvulus Cneorum (garland), and yet 
the white flower is exactly like a convolvulus, and the 
plant is quite easy to grow, strikes readily, and it 
flowers from May to August. Why should this be so 
rarely seen ? I think it must be the difficulty of the 
name, as no grower would know it was this plant that 
was wanted if the second name was left out ; the 
oddity of its sound makes it rather more easy to 
remember than most names. There is a lovely little 
Daphne which has the same surname and smells 
deliciously. This ' garland flower ' is of prostrate 
growth, likes sandy soil or peat and prefers moisture 
at the roots ; a few weeds left to grow round it protect 
it from being scorched in dry weather. The red 
Delphinium deserves to be more widely known ; it 
sounds ugly, as the beautiful blue colours are the 
feature of this large family, but D. nudicaule (naked- 
stemmed), is of a different habit, grows only one and a 
half feet high, and has an attraction all its own, and 
bright scarlet flowers are not very numerous in early 
summer. Why do people with unsuitable soil often 
struggle to grow Christmas Eoses and seldom attempt 
the Lent Hellebores, which thrive on lighter soil, flower 
early in the spring, and are of such beautiful colours, 



50 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

from pale to deep purple and white shaded with 
green ? Helleborus orienialis are the purple shades, 
and H. viridis have a green hue, and the leaves disappear 
in autumn. There is another Christmas Eose (H. niger 
altifolius), which flowers earlier than the old one. The 
common Saxifraga of sorts grow on all rockeries, 
but S. granulata double, one of the most beautiful, 
is comparatively rare. The name describes the root. 
The plant has sprays of double white, and flowers in 
April and May ; the little bulblets like to be taken up 
and planted in the shade for the summer, and they 
increase readily. The original plant was single, and 
is still found in this form growing wild in many places. 
' Bed-hot Poker ' has a good old English pantomime 
sound, therefore it has a large circle of acquaintances, 
but all the little brothers and sisters of the family are left 
out in the cold and are grown only by those who study 
the varieties. A weU-selected group will give you flowers 
from June to October, and the smaller flowering kinds 
are very dainty. Knifhofia caulescens is the first to 
flower, four feet high, reddish-salmon in colour. 
Roo'peri is only three feet, and has a longer period 
of bloom: it is the same colour as the type K. c 
hylrida. 

25th. — The rain hp,s ceased at last, and a lovely 
drying wind is spreading a welcome dust over the 
fields. My best sweet-peas are in pots, but to-day 
I spread some fine, dry ashes, mixed with peat-moss, 
over a well-manured piece of ground and sowed some 
sweet-peas. Though March has not struck, I also sowed 
candytuft, Virginian stock, and Collinsia. Most of the 
seed is self-saved, and I have plenty of it, so if it fails I 
must sow again, but I think it will do well. There has 



FEBRUARY 51 

been a grand bonfire going for three days, and I had the 
dry soil from round the fire scraped off and mixed with 
wood-ashes to dress the patches where I sowed the 
seed. I have been begging old sweet-boxes from the 
grocer in which to sow the smallest seeds. They are 
so delightfully light to move about even when full 
of son. I put my boxes of seeds on the shelf under the 
greenhouse stage a few inches above the hot pipes and 
protect them from the drip of the pots on the stage by 
large pieces of glass laid on them, till the seeds have 
germinated, then they are brought to the light. The 
boxes have to be looked at every day and watered with 
the finest rose. There is a great temptation to use a 
rake over the herbaceous beds ; the soil looks so dry and 
caked, but it is quite unsafe. One day all looks brown 
and dead, the next, big heads of crown imperials 
appear ; had the place been raked they might have been 
injured. I go all over the beds using my kneeler 
and rake with my fingers only, feeling my way, picking 
off stones and sticks and crumbling the lumps of earth 
in my hands, and the beds look quite fresh and tidy. 
I feel a brute, and as I am a vegetarian I must own 
to an inconsistency, but I do trap field-mice in what are 
called ' breakneck ' traps. I have never found a mouse 
in one with any spark of life, and believe they kill 
instantly. It must be pure imagination, but I think the 
grass paths look better already for the soot I sprinkled 
on them last week. Those that need sowing in bare 
places are dressed with road grit, wood-ashes, and leaf- 
mould. I am almost in despair at the amount of the 
small white Michaelmas daisy there is left in the 
borders. I thought I took it all out in the autumn. 
It is the most fatal weed, as it grows into every 

b2 



52 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

other plant in such a despairing way. I am taking 
cuttings of fuchsias and double white petunias and 
potting up the side shoots of chimney campanulas. 
The house is gay with flowers ; the best hyacinths 
I have in bowls are ' Grandeur,' * A Merveille,' bluish- 
white, very fine trusses and one bulb has two on it, 
and ' Marie ' is a rich dark-blue. Scilla campanulata 
(Blue Queen) makes a good show in a bowl, and the 
green is very handsome. 

27th. — Such a wet day, but, even living in the 
country as I do, wet days are often very welcome. 
I never do half the indoor things I plan and leave 
' for the first wet day,' and I am as bad as a dog for 
loving to look out of the window. I call my sitting- 
room window ' the shooting gallery ' because of the 
way the many creatures cross my view as I look out ; 
and the weather makes no difference to animals — 
cows must be milked and taken back to their pasture, 
pigs and sheep bought and sold, horses ridden to 
the meet in spite of rain or snow, and the country people 
only walk a little faster with heads bent towards the 
wind, and in bad weather one judges their position 
in life by their skirts : the poorest gipsies and tramps 
may have fairly good coats and umbrellas, but the 
skirts are usually long and draggled and the boots down- 
trodden, but the cottage folk wear strong short skirts 
and good boots. There are many tiny ways in which 
one may help the cottage people to avoid some of the 
tiresome little trials that want of money creates. 
They never buy stamps in any quantity, and are often 
obliged to stand in the rain waiting for the postman 
to pass before they can post a letter. To let one's 
near neighbours know that a stamp can be had in 



FEBRUARY 53 

an emergency is a kindness they appreciate ; again, 
their shopping means the carrying home of very 
heavy parcels, and it is often so easy to take the load 
even if one carmot give a lift to the bearer when 
driving in the same direction. Small bundles of 
cabbage plants are much appreciated, and one has 
always so many of these if the sowings are successful. 
So much waste goes on in big kitchen gardens, 
and vegetables are very precious in large towns. 
At the Committee of the National Food Eeform 
Society last year it was suggested that a ' Vegetable 
League ' should be started, and there is now one in 
operation connected with the Ladies' Guild of the West 
End Hospital for Nervous Diseases in Welbeck Street. 
This is of more practical use than sending flowers, 
and in time may spread to other hospitals. 

Flowers for funerals are more thought of than 
kindness to the Hving ; the loan of a carriage to take 
some of the older relatives to a funeral would often 
prevent an absurd waste of money on mourning 
coaches. A friend of mine who Uves near London 
often allows her servants to have their relations 
down for a day in the country, but there are very 
few people who think of these little things. This 
sounds terribly priggish, but all that some kind hearts 
need is a Uttle reminding, and some think of one 
way and some another of making the wheels go more 
smoothly for the less fortunate folk. 

28th. — The ground is very wet and sodden, and 
the only safe way to grow early potatoes planted 
now without a frame is to open up a space on a warm 
border as large as a frame six feet square, throwing out 
the soil in a ridge round the excavation to the depth 



54 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

of ten to twelve inches, filling up the hole with well- 
prepared warm stable manure, treading it down sohd, 
putting back nine inches thickness of the thrown-out 
soil, and when settled planting twelve inches apart each 
way well-prepared sets of ' May Queen ' or ' Empress ' 
potatoes ; boards across, supported by stakes, will 
hold a covering of dried bracken or straw, and this 
will be removed in the day-time when the growth begins 
to show. We have been doing this to-day ; I chose a 
corner of the kitchen garden facing east rather under 
the trees, but this is no disadvantage in the early 
spring while the leaves are off, and in the summer the 
frame will be a shady one in which to sow perennials : 
one can guard against animals and slugs so much 
better in a frame. 

The phrasing employed by my cottage neighbours 
always interests me; I could never think of any- 
thing so expressive as some of their sayings. A woman 
was telling me of her life before her marriage and 
how happy she could have been in one place where 
she was cook, ' only the mistress had a very nasty 
temper belonging to her.' I have been watching the 
birds, and it is wonderful the effect that strong in- 
dividuality has even among such tiny things, and it is 
very noticeable in winter, one tit will keep away 
sparrows, starlings, and even robins from the bird 
table. I missed to-day two strings of monkey-nuts, 
each a yard long, and a lump of suet ; we found out that 
my Shetland cow had verified her description of being 
the most easily pleased of any breed by swallowing the 
lot, cotton and all. 

The work in the kitchen garden depends on the 
weather ; earnest digging and manuring should go on 



FEBRUARY 55 

every day if the soil is in a fit condition, but at present 
it is so wet that I dare not walk on it, as heavy soil is 
soon reduced to the condition of rock-like hardness 
when the dry weather comes unless it has been kept 
open and rough during the wet. Groundsel is coming 
into flower, and all such weeds must be kept under ; 
they are best dug in unless they are going to seed. 
I always sow broad beans the first dry day in February ; 
my land is too heavy to sow any small seeds so early, 
but on light soil parsley, lettuce, parsnip, corn salad, 
radishes, and turnips can all be sown now. I also risk 
a sowing of spinach of the round-seeded variety, and 
the shallots can usually be planted now. It is very 
important to get early vegetables in the country, as 
they cannot be bought, and old potatoes soon get very 
difficult to cook, and are unwholesome as soon as they 
begin to sprout. Last year I was talking of this dififi- 
culty to my cook and deploring the fact that our 
frame-sown carrots had failed ; she put into words 
what I have often felt when she said : ' No, Miss, there 
are no second-hand vegetables to be got, and as for 
the potatoes, the old ones turn black the minute the 
young ones are about,' This is quite true ; it seems 
as though they resented the appearance of the new 
crop and felt themselves not needed. E. C. 

VEGETABLE MULLIGATAWNY 

Half-pound each of cut-up carrots and onions, 
throw them into a stew-pan with quarter-pound of 
butter, a bunch of parsley, and one ounce of celery ; 
fry until the vegetables begin to turn colour, then 
moisten with one quart of cold water, boil and skim. 
Add a little salt, half-pound of peas, French beans. 



56 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

leeks, and young turnips, -with a, sprig of thyme or 
marjoram, simmer for three hours, skim off all the 
grease and strain through a tammy, flavour with 
curry paste and thicken with flour and butter ; finish 
with two yolks of eggs after bringing it to the boil. 

ONION SOUP A LA BOVRGEOISE 

Skin the onions and cut them in half, cut up the 
halves into very thin slices, fry in butter till yellow, 
put into water and boil for twenty minutes, pour 
into a soup tureen containing some thin slices of 
bread ; instead of water, milk can be used, and the 
soup may be thickened with flour or the yolk of an 
egg and cream. 

VEGETABLE SOUP 

Prepare vegetarian stock by boiling any vegetables 
you have for twelve hours. All stock in the winter 
should contain the green part of celery and some 
carrots, turnips and artichokes, also the liquid macaroni 
has been boiled in. Heat up enough of this for the 
quantity of soup you require, add a lump of butter, 
a few spoonfuls of cream, and some chopped parsley. 

SEASONED BICE 

A simple and easily prepared dish is made by 
putting some rice into a pie-dish with enough water 
to cook it ; place it in the oven, and before it is quite 
cooked stir in some herbs, chervil, parsley (chives 
if liked) and a little scraped horse-radish, put some 
lumps of butter on the top and a layer of bread- 
crumbs ; put it back in the oven to finish cooking. 



FEBRUARY 57 

VEOETABLE RAGOUT 

Have carrots, turnips, onions, small new potatoes 
(if you have them), artichokes or any other vegetable 
in season ; fry these in butter for ten minutes, then 
put them into a stew-pan with enough vegetable 
stock to cover them and add about three tablespoon- 
fuls of rice and a little celery salt, simmer until tender, 
and serve in a casserole. 

The advantage of cooking vegetables in this way 
is that they can be used the next day for a vegetarian 
soup if they are put through a sieve and vegetarian 
stock added. 

POTATO SOUFFLS 

Wash quarter-pound of potatoes, bake them and 
scoop out the inside and pass through a sieve, beat 
two eggs, whites and yolks separately, and then mix 
thoroughly with the potatoes, butter a pie-dish and 
pour in the mixture, bake in a moderate oven for 
fifteen to twenty minutes ; serve at once. A little 
chopped parsley mixed in improves the dish. 

VEGETARIAN GRAVY 

Pry an ounce of butter a nice brown, add a little 
flour which has been browned in a quick oven, stir 
well ; add boihng water, stirring all the time, or stock 
from vegetables, simmer for five or six minutes. 

CHESTNUT CUTLETS 

Six ounces of chestnuts and raw pine-kernels mixed, 
four ounces of stale bread-crumbs, two tablespoonfuls 
of cream, one small grated onion or shallot, a little 



58 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

chopped parsley and mixed herbs ; mix the cooked and 
peeled chestnuts with the pine-kernels previously 
put through the nut-mill with the other ingredients 
and either form into cutlets with egg and bread-crumbs 
or bake in small fireproof dishes or scallops. 

PARSNIPS ' AL FORNO' 

Cut six large parsnips in two, put them in a sauce- 
pan with enough boiling water to cover them for one 
hour, then drain, and place them in a hot dish. Mean- 
time, melt two ounces of butter in a frying-pan with 
three tablespoonfuls of flour and stir, add half a pint 
of hot water and boil for five minutes, still stirring. 
Poiur the sauce over the parsnips, sprinkle with bread- 
crumbs and grated cheese and bake for a quarter of 
hotir in a slow oven. 



MABCH 

The Daffodil for Wales — Books on Napoleon — Slug Traps — ^A 
Poem on a Child — Militancy and Keform — ^Alstroemeriaa — 
Health through Diet — ^Three Vegetarian Magazines — Some 
Good Chrysanthemums — Curious Words — ^Arranging a Garden — 
Annuals from Seed — Birth of the Kids — The Patience of the 
Cottage People — ^Vegetable Recipes. 

5th. — Like many people in the country I do not 
think you see the best of all evening papers, the 
Westminster Gazette. Here is a nice httle flower story 
which was in it some time ago : — 

' The Welsh Daffodil. 

' Some of our readers will remember that on the 
occasion of the installation of Prince Edward as Prince 
of Wales at Carnarvon Castle in July 1911 he adopted 
the daffodil as the emblem of Wales. Mr. W. Davis, 
of Doneraile, Exmouth, tells in a little pamphlet just 
issued how the daffodil first got into Wales. The home 
of the flower is in the North of Spain, celebrated for 
its iron ore. The inhabitants were seafaring men, 
and on a voyage were conveyed by the flow of the Gulf 
Stream to Pembrokeshire. There they saw the 
residents digging what is now known as anthracite, 
and making fires with it. They also noted that the 
Welsh people were worshippers of the sun, or Druids. 
The Spaniards procured some of the anthracite, and 

59 



6o POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

used it as ballast. On arriving in Spain they made a 
fire with the " black stones," and by placing lumps of 
iron ore in or aroimd the anthracite, they saw its 
superiority over charcoal for smelting, resulting in 
metallic iron. 

' When the coal which the Spaniards had taken 
became exhausted, an expedition was organised to 
Wales to obtain another supply for smelting iron ore. 
As barter for the " black stones," they carried with them 
roots or bulbs of their beautiful daffodil, because they 
reasoned that the men who worshipped the sun would 
be struck by its beauty, as the flower. unfolded itself 
and displayed its marvels of form and colour ; and that 
in its corona and radiating petals they would see 
reflected in the flower the beauty and glory of the sun. 
Thus used as barter, and then accepted and regarded 
as a sacred symbol, reverently tended and cultivated, 
by the ancient people of Wales, it flourished and became 
estabhshed in their country.' 

I am so glad you have sent to Paris for the little 
book you saw when you were here which my son 
brought me, ' Souvenir d'une petite amie de Napoleon,' 
by Betsy Balcombe, the Uttle girl at whose father's 
house the Emperor lodged before Longwood was ready 
for him. The book was originally written in English 
by Miss Balcombe, afterwards Mrs. Abell, in middle 
hfe ; it reveals a Napoleon that, until lately, has 
been little known — Napoleon in private life. The 
book loses nothing, in my opinion, by having been 
translated into French. The girl was fourteen when 
Napoleon arrived at their house, and was terrified at 
the news of his arrival. It seems incredible in these 
days of rapid communication that at St. Helena they 



MARCH 6i 

were ignorant of the fact that the distinguished 
prisoner was being sent to them until, two days before- 
hand, two officers preceded him to announ/je his advent, 
and nothing was prepared for him : he lodged a few 
days at a miserable little house in James Town. Know- 
ing the way in which Napoleon was spoken of and feared 
in England, one can well picture the terror felt by Betsy 
and her sister at hearing that this ogre was coming 
to live in their house and that they talked of it half 
the night, but this fear was quickly turned into adora- 
tion when she, who spoke French better than her elder 
sister, became his interpreter and companion. Every 
detail of the two months he spent in their house is 
worth reading. It is pubUshed by Ernest Flammarion, 
22 Eue Eacine, Paris, is interestingly illustrated 
from old prints and drawings made at the time, and 
quite cheap. Having read this, I got another little 
book called ' Napoleon Intime,' which shows him in 
a very favourable light with regard to all his relations 
with his family. This Uttle extract from one of his 
letters to his brother Joseph, who was always working 
against him, is, I think, what ought to be the attitude 
between relations who take different views : ' Mon 
frere, je ne reponds pas a votre lettre ou vous paraissiez 
avoir de I'humeur ; c'est un principe que je suis avec 
vous depuis longtemps. Lorsque vous etes con- 
vaincu que Ton ne pouvait mieux faire que ce que Ton 
a fait, je dois vous laisser dans votre croyance et ne 
pas vous affliger, puisque le passe est toujours sans 
remede.' The book ends with Waterloo. 

10th. — How deadly dull are the generality of 
conservatories at this time of year! — one knows so 
well exactly what to expect. I saw in one last week 



62 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

a welcome change in the form of Celsia Arcturus ; 
it is not really uncommon, but is not quite such a 
gardeners' favourite as are Cinerarias, Primulas, 
Spiraea japonica, and Begonia Gloire de Lorraine. The 
more tender kinds of flowering shrubs are not difficult 
to force and make such a welcome variety under 
glass at this time of year. Bhynchosfermum 
jasminoides grows from cuttings; it is a handsome 
plant with bright shiny leaves, very pointed, and 
white flowers borne in clusters like jasmine. It covers 
the walls outside Florence in the late spring ; the scent 
is quite dehcious. Another most precious shrub is 
Bhododendron fragantissimum. The flowers are like a 
very handsome white azalea, and smell so sweet that 
one plant is sufficient to scent a large conservatory ; 
both these need much the same treatment as camelhas. 

12th. — ^How do the Porsythias do with you ? 
I have had great quantities of Forsyfhia siisfensa this 
year ; it lasts a long time in flower if planted in various 
situations and aspects. At one time I almost gave 
up growing it, as it flowered so badly as a bush ; the 
birds used to pick out every bud, but grown against a 
wall or shed — north, south, east, or west — the birds leave 
it alone and it flowers most profusely, and, if cut in 
bud, comes out in water and lasts a long time, as does 
the Bibes sanguineum : both, after flowering, are the 
better for cutting back. 

I moved last autunm some of Sutton's variegated 
kales into the flower-beds, and they look so well and 
so picturesque, and have done better than those that 
were not replanted, as we sank them deep, so they are 
not so leggy ; they will flower soon, and then we shall 
throw them away. 



MARCH 63 

I did not know that orange-peel would trap dugs. 
I have just bought the V. T. H. Patent Slug Trap — 
I hear it is very good — from the Mendip Nurseries, 
Langford, near Bristol, but one of the merits of this 
sandy soil — and we ought to have something with 
all its disadvantages — is that slugs do not, as a rule, 
trouble us much, but so wet a spring is very rare, and 
the slugs like it. 

I heard a piece of news the other day which gave 
me great pleasure. At such moments one's thoughts 
turn to wishes, and this little poem in my notebook 
from an old Westminster Gazette, and unsigned, came 
to my mind. I think you will feel why I like it and 
like it too : 

TBE CHILD 

The little new soul is come to earth. 

He has taken his staff for the pilgrim's way. 
His sandals are girt on his tender feet, 

And he carries his scrip for what gifts he may. 

What will you give to him, iFate Divine ? 

What for his scrip on the winding road ? 
A crown for his head ? Or a laurel wreath ? 

A sword to wield ? Or is gold his load 7 

What will you give him for weal or woe ? 

What for the journey through day and night ! 
Give or withhold from him power and fame. 

But give to him love of the earth's delight. 

Let him be lover of wind and sun. 

And of falling rain ; and the friend of trees ; 

With a singing heart for the pride of noon. 
And a tender heart for what twilight sees. 

Let him be lover of you and yours — 

The Child and Mary ; but also Pan, 
And the sylvan gods of the woods and hills. 

And the god that is hid in his fellow man. 



64 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

Lore and a, song and (be, joy of earth. 
These be the gifts for his scrip to keep 

Till, the journey ended, he stands at last, 
In the gathering dark, at the gate of sleep. 

I am staying in a house where both the master 
and mistress are great behevers in mihtancy with 
regard to suffrage, though not actually prepared to 
break the laws and go to prison themselves. They 
think that militancy is the chief factor in forcing on 
the Cause ; most people I meet, think that the exact 
contrary is the case — the future alone can show. I 
still think the end is a long way off ; many thought 
the same about the first Eeform Bill in 1830-1831. 
Here is an extract from a speech delivered by Macaulay 
during the debate in the House of Commons on the 
Eeform BUI, December 16, 1831 ; it seems to me 
illuminating : ' Is delay no evil ? Is prolonged 
excitement no evil ? Is it no evil that the heart of 
a great people should be made sick by deferred hope ? 
. . . "What then, it is said, would you legislate in 
haste ? Would you legislate in times of great 
excitement concerning matters of such deep concern ? 
Yes, sir, I would : and if any bad consequences should 
follow from the haste and the excitement, let those 
be held answerable who, when there was no need of 
haste, when there existed no excitement, refused to 
listen to any project of Eeform, nay, who made it an 
argument against Eeform that the public mind was 
not excited. . . . Half the logic of misgovernment 
lies in this one sophistical dilemma. If the people 
are turbulent, they are unfit for liberty ; if they are 
quiet, they do not want liberty. . . . But Reformers 
are compelled to legislate fast, because bigots will 



MARCH 65 

not legislate early. Eeformers are compelled to 
legislate in times of excitement because bigots will 
not legislate ia times of tranquillity.' This does 
seem to apply wonderfully to this year (a.d. 1913) ; 
and again, Gladstone, in 1866, said in a speech after 
the defeat of the Eeform Bill : ' You cannot fight 
against the future. Time is on our side. The great 
social forces which move on in their might and majesty 
and which the tumult of our debates does not for 
a moment impede or disturb, those great social forces 
are against you ; they are marshalled on our side, 
and the banner which we now carry, though perhaps 
at this moment it may droop over our sinking heads, 
yet soon again it will be in the eye of Heaven borne 
by the firm hands of the united people of the three 
kingdoms, perhaps not to an easy but to a certain 
and not distant victory.' 

Not distant, indeed ! The Eeform Bill passed in 
1867. As a curious coincidence, the first Eeform Bill 
of 1832 passed a year after Macaulay's speech, and 
as the Bill of 1867 became law the year following the 
speech of Gladstone from which I have just quoted, I 
wonder when history will repeat itself ? But I know 
lots of people who would say we have far too many 
votes already — we don't want to add thousands of 
women. Well, I believe the movement will never die 
down till the women get the vote ; not that I think it will 
do the good many behevers in the women's cause think 
it will, but it is a justice, and it must come, and so it 
seems hard to many Liberals that it should be so long 
delayed, though I admit it is impossible for a statesman 
in Mr. Asquith's position to advocate that which he and 
other members of his Cabinet distinctly believe not to be 



66 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

for the good of the country. No opposition changes the 
opinion of such a man, and that is what the militants 
never seem to understand. In time, perhaps, the 
Government in power will see things from Macanlay's 
point of view ; I am so afraid I shall not live to 
see women go to the poll. It seems to me rulers 
sometimes forget what is well put by Bulwer: 
' Government never has prevented and never can pre- 
vent the propagation of dangerous doctrines by pro- 
hibitions either in the shape of a tax or law ; the only 
effect of persecution is to render the doctrines more 
dangerous and the people more eager to learn them.' 

It is hard to keep ever present in one's mind, 
surrounded as one is by the universal condemnation 
of militant practices, that the militant suffragettes 
believe, with a force that no arguments shake, that their 
sufferings help the granting of the vote, and they also 
believe that the vote, once granted, will make an almost 
miraculous difference in the positions of women and 
save the hves and honour of countless women and 
children. That I consider a very exaggerated view 
of what the Parliamentary vote will do ; but it is 
to a great extent the explanation of the vicarious 
sufferings of these unfortunate women who volun- 
tarily give their health and even their hves for the 
cause. 

Here, where I am staying, the soil is very heavy ; 
in dry weather it cracks, but the ordinary herbaceous 
plants do very well, but' all sorts of smaller things, 
Alpines, &c., which do excellently with me and are 
even almost weeds, here dwindle and look poor and 
miserable. Overcoming soil difficulties is really the 
great art of gardening. I must send you seme tubers 



MARCH 67 

and seeds of my favourite Alstreomerias (Peruvian 
lilies), especially chilensis, which flourishes in the 
dryest weather, and lasts so well in water ; under a 
west wall it grows admirably with me. Have you been 
able to save any I gave you, and does the common 
yellow one, Alstroemeria aurantiaca, do as well with you 
as with me ? I can give you more, as I have many 
large patches of it at home. How much the difference 
in our two soils adds to the interest of our two gardens ; 
your soil was all so freshly made you can hardly tell 
yet how things will do after a year or two. The last- 
named {Alstroemeria) one does occasionally see in 
gardens, but A . chilensis is much the more beautiful, and 
is really quite rare. I have immensely improved mine 
since I had the first plants by saving the seeds of the 
best-coloured flowers ; they vary from almost white 
to the deepest rose colour, and everybody admires them. 
I am sending you Mr. Keimeth 6. Haig's book, 
'Health through Diet' (Methuen & Co., 3s. 6d.). 
I think it most practical and helpful. He is the son, as 
I think you know, of the pioneer of scientific diet, 
Dr. Alexander Haig. I am very anxious you should 
spread the knowledge of the pubHcation of this book 
amongst your friends and followers in Hampshire, who 
are beginning to tread the path which we consider is 
the strait and narrow way. The book is written in 
popular form, and can be understood perfectly by quite 
unmedical minds ; it is much simpler and less technical 
than the father's books, which were written for the 
medical profession. The personal history of Mr. Haig 
from childhood upwards is written by the father, but 
not the least interesting part of the book is the son's 
own account of his hfe and experiences. His education 

f2 



68 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

was the usual one at a public school and Oxford ; 
subsequently he went into the army, which he left in 
order to go through the Medical Schools. How rare it 
is for sons to follow in the footsteps of their fathers, 
especially when those footsteps are on arid, untempting, 
and unworldly ground ! I expect many people who read 
this book will say, ' Oh ! this diet is impossible for 
rich or poor,' and yet you and I know quite well how 
practical and how beneficial it is ; and I am sure that no 
one who is a vegetarian, or has any belief at all that 
what we eat or do not eat has an immense effect on 
general health, will put down the book without its 
having made a considerable impression on their 
intellectual understanding of health through diet. Dr. 
Haig and his son have devoted their Uves to the study 
of the subject, and they distinctly assert in this book 
that daily food should not be considered merely as a 
matter of bulk, but that it is of supreme importance 
that a measured amount of proteid, which is the chief 
essential constituent of food, should be taken day by 
day. They make it plain that nothing but proteid 
is capable of building up the tissues of the body and of 
repairing the waste due to daily wear and tear. I know 
many who are meat-eaters and others are trying 
the Haig diet or are ordinary vegetarians who, 
for various reasons, neglect this rule and are 
deliberately injuring their health, not by missing a 
meal, which is often very beneficial, but by persis- 
tently underfeeding, though they may take four meals 
a day. Of course some, indeed many, dispute the 
accuracy of Dr. Haig's measurements of food, but he 
only adopts what his profession taught him. The 
medical profession, as a rule, think that the uric- 



MARCH 69 

acid-free diet is a low proteid or starvation diet ; this 
Dr. Haig absolutely and emphatically denies, if the diet 
is properly carried out. The physiological rules that 
govern the amount of daily proteid that a person 
requires on mixed diet also give the amount of proteid 
that a person requires on the uric-acid-diet. It is 
most unfair for people to condemn the diet and declare 
that it does not suit them, and that they feel benefit 
when they return to the ordinary meat diet when they 
have neglected the principal rule laid down by this 
remarkable father and son. The book is written in a 
very simple style, and affords sufficient instruction for 
anyone willing to give what he prescribes a fair trial, as 
there are many and various menus of the days worked 
out in meals, with the proper quantities measured, 
according to the net body weight of each individual 
and adjusted to either an active or sedentary life. 
I am afraid most people will at first think the diet 
very trying and uninteresting, but food is so much a 
matter of habit that if the mind and intelligence are 
once convinced of the benefit Ukely to accrue to their 
health, though this benefit may not at first be apparent, 
the giving up of foods that Dr. Haig calls ' poisonous ' 
will not be such a great trial as they imagine. The 
foods that the meat-eater characterises as tasteless 
and uninteresting appear to acquire to the vegetarian 
delightful and dehcate flavours of their own. Mr. 
Haig gives a good many rules for the maintenance of 
health over and above this theory of diet ; the general 
tone which runs through the book is rather preventive 
of disease than its cure. Mr. Haig himself says '• 
' I do not claim diet as a general panacea for all diseases ; 
all I maintain is that a large number of diseases would 



70 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

not exist at all were everybody on the diet.' Mr. 
Kenneth Haig sums up his experience thus : ' I was a 
weakly child with all the symptoms of Bright's disease 
in its early stages ; my heart was dilated, I fainted 
several times, and I was always cursed with minor ail 
ments of one kind or another, yet, in view of all these con- 
stitutional handicaps in early life, that I should be able 
later on to develop such powers of endurance as I now 
have speaks volumes for the good Diet has done me.' 
I am supposed by many who do not know me to 
be a pioneer food reformer, and, in a way, I believe 
I am, though others are always saying, ' Oh, Mrs. Earle 
has given up the diet.' This is not one bit true, 
though it may have arisen from my taking a little very 
weak tea, especially when I am from home, and the 
harmless German ' Life-Belt ' coffee, or Mrs. Wallace's 
equally harmless coffee ; and — as I look on diet as a 
road to health and not as religion — I often take, when 
in other people's houses, a little fish rather than have 
any fuss or give my hostess the disagreeable feeling that 
she has ordered nothing for me to eat ; and when non- 
vegetarian cooks prepare dishes they are spoilt by salt, 
pepper, cayenne, or mushrooms, all of which are far 
worse than if one were allowed to have plain bread 
and cheese. I am just as firm a believer in the 
benefits to be derived from a strict diet as ever, and 
aU those who I know have given it a fair and prolonged 
trial are the same. I think what puts many off is the 
great sensitiveness, to the evils of wrong foods, it brings 
aboat ; this the true believer thinks most useful, as 
with any honest patient the results of back-sliding 
are obvious enough, and the old symptoms of head- 
ache, rheumatism, eczema, &o., quickly recur. 



MARCH 71 

One of the minor proofs of my devotion to the cause 
is that I take in the three principal magazines : the 
Vegetarian Messenger, published at Manchester, one 
penny a month ; this is the original health review of, 
I think, the oldest vegetarian society in England, and 
has a large circulation and is in its sixty-fifth year. 
The principal contents for this March magazine, 1913, 
are ' Vegetarian Exhibition Festival and Carnival,' 
' The Salvation Army and Vegetarian Eecipes,' ' Dutch 
Vegetarian Cookery,' ' Home News,' ' A Vegetarian 
Lunch,' ' The Letter Box,' &c., &c. The Salvation 
Army experiences about diet are always deeply in- 
teresting and, to me, most convincing, and Mr. Filson 
Young wrote in the Pall Mall, at the time of General 
Booth's death, that ' If Tolstoy was the great moral 
teacher of our time, surely Booth was the grv^at moral 
fighter ; it is, I think, with Tolstoy that future genera- 
tions will rank him. The man who wants everything 
for others and nothing for himself is the oddity and 
perhaps the saint of our day.' Another magazine is the 
well-known Hcalihward Ho I edited by Eustace Miles, 
M.A. This magazine is full of new ideas and sug- 
gestions, and in one of his forewords the editor says : 
' I know plenty of people who are young although 
they are over seventy, and I know plenty of people 
who are old although they are under twenty. I 
remember the late Mr. Alfred Lyttelton telling me 
that he did not feel so young as he would like to feel ; 
and when I asked him just what he meant, he said 
that his idea of a young person was someone who would 
easily take in new ideas. People can do this up to 
my age.' So I say at any age take in this magazine 
and new ideas will come to you. 



72 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

The third magazine is the Herald of the Golden 
Age and British Health Beview. I am bound tg 
say it has one great advantage for busy people — ^it 
is published quarterly, threepence each number. I 
think it a very interesting magazine even for those who 
are but weak believers in non-meat diet, but think 
food reform necessary, and several M.D.s contribute 
articles, and the four numbers are a wonderful shillings- 
worth. I think it of great importance that every 
mother of yoimg children should study at least one 
of these magazines. The following, in the last July 
number, is a very good and useful recipe for the delicate 
to take a sufficient amount of proteid ; it is as follows : — 
Take the whites of two or three eggs and whisk 
to a very stiff cream, flavour with lemon-juice, 
orange, pineapple, or vanilla, and sprinkle it with 
sifted sugar ; granose biscuits make an excellent 
accompaniment. ' 

M. T. Eaele. 

Notes from Bedhazel. 

March 3rd. — I always get any new Chrysanthemums 
I want to grow from Lilly, Guernsey, and buy the rooted 
cuttings, which come beautifully packed in moss. 
This year I ordered ' NelHe Pockett,' a good shaggy 
white that grows only two feet high ; ' Mary Eichardson,' 
a lovely single salmon shade of terracotta ; ' Silver 
Queen,' white, shaded with palest yellow and pink; 
' Mrs. J. Lewis,' a clear httle hlac pink ; ' W. H. Selbey,' 
a double yellow ; and ' Aime Farrant,' a large single 
dark red. ' Viviand Morel ' is seldom seen, a beautiful 
deep double mauve pink ; ' Market-red ' was one we 



MARCH 73 

admired in a friend's greenhouse. All the Pompons are 
attractive — ' Snowball,' ' William Selbey,' and ' Model 
of Perfection,' make a good variety ; they grow 
freely with long stalks and are early and most 
useful for cutting. The rooted cuttings are sent out 
in March and should be put at once into 48-size 
pots planted very firmly and labelled ; the first shoot 
should be nipped off — ' stopped,' it is called — ^when 
the plant is about six inches high. I made a list in 
November of some plants I wanted to grow which it 
would be safest to plant in March. I have got them 
now, and must plant them with care ; the soil is heavy 
and damp after the rain of winter, and I am making 
large holes and filling with old leaf-mould and powdery 
loam from a heap under the trees with some wood-ashes 
and road grit — all this will cling to the roots and give 
them something to start on better than the cold sticky 
soil in the beds. All the Adonis are good, but the one 
I have got is A. vemalis, nearly a foot high with 
foliage like fennel and yellow daisy-like flowers. 
Anemone Pulsatilla, with its leaves covered with silky 
hairs and deep purple flowers, has long tempted me, 
but it is one of those precious things that are so easily 
choked with weeds or killed by neglect, and the first 
two years in a garden one feels as if one had suddenly 
been made matron of a large orphanage, and to get to 
know where the different children sleep takes time, 
and while in one part caring for an ailing inmate the 
rest are fighting for their places and giving each other 
infectious diseases. Last year something always 
happened if I turned my back ; alternate floods and 
drought were our portion, and I vowed nothing should 
be added to my labours tUl I had the plants more 



74 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

under control, fixed in my mind, and, above all, had 
mastered some of the worst weeds which years of neglect 
had encouraged into thinking the garden belonged to 
them. The hotbed I made up last year was empty 
in September, so I had it tidied up and sowed some 
lettuce and radish ; I went away for a month, and on 
my return found the whole frame filled with the most 
beautifully evenly grown docks. Their calm assurance 
of a welcome staggered me ; as no dock has been 
allowed to seed since I took possession, I can't think 
where such an abundant supply came from. The other 
plants I am putting in are the round-leaved ' Lady's 
Smock' {Cardamine rotundifolia), sometimes called 
the double cuckoo-flower, and Delphinium nudicaule, 
the small red Delphinium. Clethra arhorea is a lovely 
half-hardy httle tree-shaped plant which can be treated 
like a camellia, but the sweet pepper bush (C alnifolia), 
is hardy, and bears sweet-smelling flowers in summer. 
Viola gracilis has intense violet flowers freely produced 
during the summer. In buying new plants I always 
jump at those which have a long blooming period. I 
shall put all the new things in one bed for the first year 
to remember where they are, but the viola must be 
at the top of the south wall in the sunk path to hang 
over a brick and be on a level with the eye ; the advantage 
of this sort of garden is that one notices the most in- 
conspicuous flowers and plants, as in a way it takes one 
back to the days of childhood when we walked nearer 
the level of the flowers. Thalictrum difterocarfwrn 
is a new form of T. Delavayi ; it grows six feet high, and 
has reddish-violet flowers, but at present the price of 
the plant is 2s. 6d., so I am just making a note of it and 
not buying it this year. How curious it is to notice 



MARCH 75 

how some plants catch on immediately, and are grown 
so extensively that they become cheap at once. The 
Dropmore variety of Anchusa italica is a case in point ; 
it did not originate at Dropmore, but was introduced 
into that garden and distributed from it, and in a 
few years it had reached aU over England. 

Language always interests, and I Uke noticing any 
curious use of words. I saw a woman to-day who wanted 
to get her daughter a good situation, but she said, ' I 
must own she ain't strong ; I don't want to suck anyone 
in. I should not hke to be sucked in myself.' I remember 
being told once about a wedding which did not take 
place at the daughter-in-law's house after all, because 
' at the last " Em " she turned rucky.' What a 
descriptive word to represent the general want of 
smooth acquiescence which is so necessary in a hostess 
of a lent house. When I first came to live in Hampshire 
I was puzzled to hear the weather on hot, still, dripping 
days we often get so near the sea, described as ' rough ' 
till I found it meant ' bad,' and a man who had been ill 
will tell you he has been ' very rough.' I find one Hamp- 
shire expression very useful, ' When will you come ? ' 
' Oh, any when that suits you ' ; and I love the old 
man's expression to describe anunletable house — he said 
it was likely ' to bide addled a goodish while.' Once, 
when being shown over a ruined castle in Worcestershire 
by a shepherd, I had some conversation with him, and 
ohaffad him a little about his admission that when young 
he had run away from a woman. When I said good-bye 
I expressed the pleasure he had given me in his very 
intelhgent description of the castle ; as we shook hands 
he said : ' I hope. Miss, I shall see you again. I do 
Uke someone with a bit of " pick up " about them.' 



76 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

10th. — What magic there is in keeping cuttings 
in a close atmosphere ! I tried to strike some chrysan- 
themum cuttings in the open peach-house as the hand- 
hghts were full, but they all drooped, so I got a high 
box, put all the pots into it, covering the top with pieces 
of glass ; they all recovered and very soon made roots. 
I see Eckford warns people against using chicken 
manure for sweet peas, as a worm that attacks the 
plants is often to be found in soil dressed in this 
way. It is a kind plan to give a few seeds away to 
cottage neighbours ; they like peas and beans, but find 
the large packets too much, and they can't afford 
the expense ; quite a few will give them a nice Sunday 
treat occasionally, and there are usually some 
left when the sowing is finished. The same applies 
to flower-seeds; if half-packets were sown and 
the rest given away what much stronger aimuals we 
should have ! Does anyone ever sow annuals thinly 
enough ? 

Many people who take a house find plenty of plants 
in the garden, but badly arranged. When I came here 
the Michaelmas daisies had to be taken up with a 
pickaxe : the handsome mullein, Verhascum longifoUum, 
was in the borders, Campanula grandis had spread 
everjrwhere, and polyanthus had sown themselves 
out of sight among the tall things ; London-pride was, 
in good places, in patches a yard wide. Certain flowers 
ought never to be in good places as they smother 
everything else, and such things as the common mari- 
gold and evening primrose, which flower and sow them- 
selves every year unaided, are best in a sort of ' out 
land' — ^in the shade they show best. The same with 
Campanula grandis ; it will soon fiU any rough place, 



MARCH Tj 

and mulleins and foxgloves are best on a bank or in 
the high part of the rock garden or at the foot of a 
wall. Foxgloves look lovely grown in the shade among 
shrubs, and will sow themselves in various colours. 
MfAxia moschata alba is a charming thing in the shade, 
and white single arabis can be planted anywhere in 
a rough place. Stachys lanata is handsome anywhere, 
but is also good for covering bare places which one is 
usually told are hopeless. I know no place in a garden 
that is quite hopeless unless it is under the drip of a 
leaking water-pipe or on the north side of a house that 
has another very close so that only a cold draught of 
air sweeps along the bed and no sun comes near it ; 
anywhere else some green will grow if it is left undis- 
turbed — ^if only ground ivy and the common big peri- 
winkle, it is better than bare earth. There are many 
beds under trees where only spring and late autumn 
things will flourish, because only when the leaves 
are off do the poor plants get enough air and sunUght ; 
such spots should be planted with bulbs of snowdrops, 
winter aconites, daffodils and wild hyacinths, Scilla 
nutans with primroses, London-pride, Mimulus, and 
the little creeping wild geranium, woodruff, &c., 
and in July autumn crocus and ColcMcums can be 
planted. Eosemary Ukes a dry place, I nearly killed one 
this year by planting it where it got watered every day : 
they do well under trees which give them protection in 
early spring. North walls are often very bare, but 
Morella cherries do as well facing north as any other 
position, and there are certain things which do best not 
tempted into growth by the early sunshine to which 
those on the south wall are subject. Escallonia and 
Ceanoihus will do on wall or fence facing north ; any of 



78 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

the Ayrshire roses, the common pink China Penzance 
briers, and Reine Olga de Wurtemburg, which is quite 
evergreen. Jasminium nudifiorum, Clematis Flam- 
mula look well, as does also the Guelder rose, though 
it is not often used in this way. In a windy 
situation berberries will thrive ; Phillyrea, lilacs, 
flowering currants, all the thorns (Crataegus) and, of 
course, Tamarisk, so often grown by the sea. Tamarix 
chinensis has a lovely pink flower ; they like a sandy 
soil : Deutzias stand wind well, but all those must be 
planted firmly and staked at first ; also, it is necessary 
to plant them more closely together than would be 
done in an ordinary situation. Old trees that have 
died make a grand natural support for climbing roses, 
honeysuckle, and clematis. I once saw an old orchard 
turned into a rose garden ; every apple-tree had a rose 
climbing up, and the effect was very beautiful and 
uncommon. There is sometimes a very dry sunny 
bank in a garden covered with grass ; this gets spoilt 
with moss in winter and is dried up and scorched during 
the summer. One way to treat such a bank is to plant 
it with roses which can be pegged down, and another 
is to plant it with a mixture of shrubs, such as lavender, 
santolina, broom, sea-holUes, Eryngiums, Lycium, 
brambles. Clematis Vitalba, Cistus and PMomis ; 
the beautiful butterfly-like everlasting-pea looks lovely 
in such a position. Perhaps the most lovely thing to 
plant on a bank of this sort is Sfartium junceum, 
the rush or Spanish broom, a thin-growing shrub which 
remains in flower from July to September ; it grows 
rapidly to the height of ten feet, but it needs clipping 
back after flowering every year, on a bank should be 
pegged down ; the poorer the soil the better it does. I 



MARCH 79 

know a garden which has a rough wall at either side 
of the entrance ; it has been built some five or six 
years, and I have watched to see if any help will be 
given it to clothe it with plant life ; one foxglove 
is there and some creeping toad-flax. How I long 
to scrape out bits of mortar and put in little pockets 
of earth and plant antirrhinums, wallflowers, Alyssum 
saxatile, Arabis, thrift, Arvieria vulgaris, Centranthus 
ruber, Sedums, Corydalis, Aubrietia, rock pinks, 
Cerastium tomen,tosum and other shallow-rooted things ; 
they can all be established by mixing some of 
their seed with soil and putting it in a crevice. This 
is best done in the autumn, but tiny plants can be 
put in now. Sowing seeds is either the most economical, 
delightful, and interesting way of growing plants, or 
it is wasteful, disappointing, and extravagant ; it 
depends on the quality of the seed, but most of all 
the way they are sown and the proper judgment being 
used about the time to sow, which must depend on 
climate, weather, and position. In Surrey, on hght 
warm soil, I always sowed in the first week in March, and 
only one abnormal year was I disappointed, but in 
Hampshire, on heavy, rather cold, soil I find that the 
middle of March is the best time, and then if much 
rain falls it interferes, so I begin on March 1 to think 
about my seeds and get ready to sow on the first fine 
dry day. This year I am going to sow aimuals I have 
not tried before ; I love having something that surprises 
and puzzles other keen gardeners, so the seed-sowing 
day is even more exciting than usual. I called to see 
a friend a little while ago, and found her quite unhappy 
over her seed Hst — the puzzle of what to order in the 
lists which she found most confusing ; as no two 



8o POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

people think the same about flowers, it would be quite 
useless to draw up a seed list for anyone else, but a 
few hints as to the best sorts to grow may be useful. 
Stocks and asters are always made a great deal of in 
the catalogues, but they are not extensively grown by 
amateurs except in towns and suburbs ; big groups of 
each in a mixed border look well, as stiff beds jnay be 
fiUed with them: I think aU one colour looks best, 
but the newer shades of German ten-week stocks all 
blend well together, like French sugared almonds — 
cream, pink, and mauve. Ryder puts his stocks at 
the beginning of the catalogue. I think a charming 
mixture is peach, hght blue, rosy yellow, and orange ; 
this last is not bright enough to clash, it is only a deeper 
yellow than the other yellow : the purple they call 
dark blue is handsome, and bright rose or cerise both 
look well alone — these are dwarf. Bee, of Liverpool, 
has penny packets of the taller kinds in separate 
colours. Intermediate stocks, if sown in March in 
heat, bloom in the early autumn, and Brompton stock 
sown in June flower in spring, so one can have stocks 
in bloom from May till the frost <Jomes. The tall 
single white stock ' Summer Cloud ' bloomed here from 
May till July and began again in September and 
continued till January. If you have a dry, rather hot, 
border where few things do well, sow a box of Petunia 
hybrida alba, the old white petunia which flowers from 
June onwards imtU the frost, and smells so sweet : it 
should be pegged down after being planted out. The 
new-coloured Nicotiana hybrids are almost scentless, 
N. afp,nis is the one to grow if you love the scent that 
steals out at dusk. Marguerite carnations flower six 
months after the seed is sown. All carnations belong 



MARCH 8i 

to the Dianthus family, of which are also ' Sweet 
Williams,' Indian pinks and all the charming little rock 
pinks that do so splendidly on dry, hot soils and some 
of which are very easily grown from seed. Marguerite 
carnations are called perennials, but they do little 
after flowering the second season, so should be renewed 
every other year. 

Cornflowers and Sweet Sultans are both members 
of the Centaurea family. Of late years the former have 
been sold in mixed packets, and these sow themselves 
in a variety of washed-out colours and dirty white, 
whereas the true blue caerulea, bought each year, is so 
much more lovely and cannot be improved upon : on 
the other hand, the colours of the Sweet Sultans are 
very lovely, and the new mauve and yellow are well 
worth growing. Viscaria caerulea and fulgens are useful 
annuals which look best sown rather thickly. Seed- 
growers do not pay enough att ntion to the scent of 
flowers, and some of the sweetest have been so 
hybridised for form and colour as to lose much of 
their fragrance. So far, the night-scented stock hai 
been left to us, dull drab little treasure that looks 
half-dead all day and fills the nigh air with one of 
the most delicious of all scents. Little patches of 
this should be sown among other plants under all 
windows, and those who are wise enough to sleep 
with them wide open will reap a rich reward. 

Care must be taken in ordering mignonette. The 
old Reseda odorata ' Machet ' is very sweet-scented. 
B. aiba is two feet high and has no scent, though the 
bees love it ; this is very curious : they also find no 
attraction in sweet alyssum, though to us it smells 
strongly of honey. Mignonette should be sown very 



82 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

thinly in May where it is to flower, as it will not 
transplant. One of the best small blue flowers is 
Phacelia, but be sure in ordering to add campanulata, 
which name describes its bell-shaped flower ; it is a 
glorious blue, and the leaves are veined with purple : 
it grows only four iaches high. Another little gem is 
Eschscholzia tenuifolia, four inches high, a delicate 
pale primrose with the same grey-green foliage as 
the orange Eschscholzia. Candytuft {Iberis umbellata) 
can now be had in many lovely colours : Eose Cardinal 
is one of the best. Kaulfussia Kermesina is a good 
low border annual that flowers for many weeks, but 
perhaps the most graceful and attractive of all the 
small-blossomed annuals is Linaria, ' white pearl,' 
one foot high. Jacohaeas are uncommon flowers that 
can be had in purple, rose, crimson, and white ; they 
are one and a half feet high. The water forget-me-not, 
which excites so much admiration when found growing 
wild, will do very well in a garden sown under trees 
in rather a damp place and lasts well in water when 
picked — Myosotis 'palustris is its name. The sweet 
rockets, both white and purple, should be sown in 
July ; Hesferis violacea is the best purple, and H. tristis 
is sweet-scented at night. For large borders that 
contain a great variety of plants, and where annuals 
are also grown, the labels are a very unsightly addition, 
and yet how trying it is not to know the names of 
all the plants you grow, and the name that is asked 
for is always the one that is not in the mind at the 
right moment. A good contrivance that saves labelling 
is to make a plan of the border and mark on it the 
position of each group of plants ; this can be referred 
to, and it can be done on a very small scale, and the 



MARCH 83 

fact of drawing it will help to impress the names on 
your memory. When the name of a plant grown 
from seed is given you, it is important to find out from 
where the seed was bought, as the big growers have 
their own specialities and name the new varieties, and 
these often do not get on to the market for some 
years. 

18th. — I have been seed-sowing all day. The 
writing of labels is tiresome work, and I can never 
make up my mind whether writing them in the house 
beforehand or in the garden as they are wanted is 
the more boring ; if they are ready written you can 
never find the right one in the basket or your pocket. 
For vegetable seeds I have always made up my mind 
where they are to be sown, and I put the right label 
with the packet of seed on the ground to be in readiness, 
but with flowers I constantly change my mind and 
have to alter the places, so I usually write labels as 
I go along. To-day was just the right sort of day 
for gardening, damp early and then a dry air and 
sun, though there was little mud, and the surface soon 
lost all stickiness, but the soil remained damp under- 
neath. I had a delightful surprise. I thought all 
the Primula rosea plants were killed, and I found 
one in flower; they disappear so completely in the 
winter. Now is the time to take off shoots of Phlox 
and Delphiniums and stick them in a pot with coconut 
fibre and sand ; they will flower late in the autumn. 
One of the pleasantest garden jobs in the spring is 
going round all the beds slowly with a small fork and 
a tray for the rubbish and stirring the soil very gently 
between the plants, taking off stones and pulhng up 
weeds; the amusing thing about it is that one gets 



84 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

such delicious surprises in seeing plants shooting up 
■which had either been forgotten or given up in despair. 
Oh, the slugs ! Another year I hope to be in time with 
either orange-peel, parsnip slices, or, if I can afford 
them, V. T. H. Patent Slug Traps (see page 63). I 
could weep at my Madonna lilies that looked so well 
and were most promising with their three and four 
flower stems, and now, alas, three clumps have lost a 
shoot, eaten through by slugs, but I caught twenty 
on one half orange-skin, so I feel safer now ; pansies 
and Polyanthus both attract slugs, and they eat the 
buds before they are out, which is so despairing ; soot 
is fairly safe for seedlings, but Ume, even when slaked, 
is very apt to burn young seedlings. My Virginian 
stock, Linaria, &c., are already up ; the rain has brought 
everything on very well. I never saw anything like 
the weatherproof texture of the blooms of Narcissus 
obvallaris ; they have been out for six weeks, and 
rain and snow have done them no harm. 

March 25. — I am planting out seedling pinks and 
cuttings of Alpine wallflowers out of the frame ; 
also viola cuttings that wintered under a bell glass : 
the Christmas roses and Lent hellebores are growing, and 
I am feeding them with liquid manure. I find it quite 
impossible to give my chrysanthemums the amount 
of attention they require in the way of repotting ; 
they should now be potted into five-inch pots, but this 
would mean another move in May or June. I have 
potted some into eight-inch pots, only half filling each 
pot with soil, and I shall gradually fill up the pot as 
the plant grows and feed well after they have filled 
their pot with roots ; this is not a method to advise 
your gardener to try, but if you have more work than 
you can carry out satisfactorily it is worth doing. 



MARCH 85 

Two kids bom yesterday at 5 p.m. have taken up a 
good deal of my time, not that I feed them, but they 
are so fascinating to watch. They are in a crate by the 
stove in the harness room ; they have to be taken from 
their mother the minute they are bom, and fed with 
a bottle, otherwise the mother frets and cries so much 
when the parting takes place. Jane, the fox-terrier, 
is so distressed when they cry, which they do for some 
time before each meal, though there is only an interval 
of two hours between the meals. 

I had a few cannas given me in the autumn, and they 
were put under some bracken in the peach-house ; I 
potted them up to-day and shall put all into a sea-kale 
pot in June. They make handsome pot plants, and 
flower well when slightly pot-bound. A man came to 
the gate yesterday with a barrow of plants ; I bought 
a few things I was short of, spent one-and-sixpenoe ; to- 
day I hear he tried to persuade a neighbour to buy from 
him, by saying I had sent to Winchester for him to come 
and bring me one pound's worth of plants : she guessed 
my name was being used as ground-bait and was not 
convinced. I walked home with a woman last night, 
and we talked of our Uve stock. She told me quite 
patiently that she set a hen on thirteen eggs on New 
Year's Day and had eight chicks hatched — these were 
all eaten by a rat when a week old — she had no more ; 
I felt so ashamed that no rat had interfered with mine. 
Why should my forty be spared and her eight killed ? 
Because I can afford to trap or poison the rats ; the 
poor are handicapped at every turn, it's the extra 
shilling that would stop the loss that is not forth- 
coming. Another neighbour lost sixteen ch^cken3 by 
a fox getting in. Living as I do so much in line with 
my poorer neighbours, I realise their wonderful calm 



86 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

acceptance of their lot ; the men will go to any trouble 
to help each other in an emergency. One day a calf 
got caught in barbed wire, no one was the least surprised 
that the man who saw the accident rushed at once 
to the rescue, got his arm badly scratched and his 
clothes rent and torn ; he would have expected the 
calf owner to do the same by him : the give and 
take is what makes their lives endurable. I was at 
Portsmouth Picture Palace one day, and in the interval 
a young girl dressed in a uniform passed round a plate 
for the local orphanage ; the audience round me were 
mostly soldiers and sailors and their relations : they 
all gave something, the only well-dressed man in sight 
was the one person who refused. 

The chicory in pots under the pipes in the green- 
house is doing very well, but I do not like a salad of 
all chicory, the slight bitterness is very nice in a 
lettuce salad or a little mixed with corn salad or 
rampion leaves ; as a rule I like only one kind of 
leaf in a salad, but I think chicory is an exception. 
The httle lettuce seedlings in the hotbed are ready 
to use ; Webb's Wonder has grown the fastest. How 
difficult it is to sow seeds at the exact right time on 
heavy land ! It so often rains the day before I had 
plaimed to get some special seeds in. Spinach, radishes, 
and carrots, the main crops of long-rooted kiads, should 
have been done to-day. I did plant out cauliflowers 
and leeks, the former wintered under glass. I have 
dusted the soil with soot and lime as slugs abound. 
The rule I have made for myself this year is to sow 
some kind of lettuce every month ; I find so many 
people run short in hot weather. A good cabbage- 
lettuce keeps its heart better than the cos sorts in 
dry weather, so I have sown some more of them. 



MARCH 87 

Winter greens are sown this week ; I sowed celery 
under glass and also celeriac, which is so useful in 
early winter. The turnip-rooted beetroot is the one 
which grows the quickest, and I put in two short rows. 
Thinly as I sowed them, there will be plenty to pull 
up and eat when quite tiny— these surprise people so 
much we serve them whole when they are the size 
of walnuts. The spring onions are ready to plant out 
if I had time to do it ; but early rising is not attractive 
in a cold wind, and there are many things besides 
gardening calling me this week. This year I shall 
put my shallots in a really good place, and I have 
bought some seed bulbs oi the new giant shallot ; they 
are such useful onions and are not usually particularly 
well grown in private gardens. 

30th. — To-day we are sowing the dwarf peas and 
planting the earliest potatoes. There is a warm border 
running along the back of the peach-house ; it faces 
south, and carried a splendid crop of French beans this 
summer : for this it was heavily manured, and I have 
had it only hoed, as we dug in a lot of peat litter from 
the henhouse in December. Early potatoes do best in 
light, warm soil, and this is an ideal place for them. 
The peat-moss would not do on light soils, but here it 
helps to keep the ground open, though some say it 
breeds wire-worms. B. C. 

BROWN ARTICHOKE SOUP 

Scrub and peel 1| lbs. of Jerusalem artichokes, 
take half a head of celery, half an onion and a small 
bunch of herbs, cut them up and fry in butter and a 
quart of vegetarian stock and let it simmer 30 minutes, 
pass through a fine hair sieve, put back into a stew- 
pan to warm up ; add a piece of butter and a little cream. 



88 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

WHITE SOUP MAIGRE 
(From ' Dainty Eishes ') 

Take a large handful of chervil, four heads of celery, 
two onions, three lettuces, a little sorrel, thjone, and 
tarragon, boil these in a quart of water upon the stove 
till quite stewed down. About a quarter of an hour 
before dinner take it off and strain it from the herba 
and let it stand to cool, then add a pint of creana (or 
milk) thickened with the yolks of three eggs, stir 
well in and put it on the fire to heat but not to boil. 

RICE AND CELERY SOUP 

Boil the rice all day with some celery cut up small, 
judge your quantity according to the amount of soup 
you want, only using enough water to keep them from 
burning, add this to the amount of vegetarian stock 
reqaired, boil it up and strain before serving. Serve 
with squares of fried bread. 

BEAN CROQUETTES 

Two cups of well-cooked butter beans flavoured with 
herbs or onion, two cups bread-crumbs, one cup strained 
tomatoes, juice of a lemon. Rub the butter beans, 
which should have been well cooked with the onion and 
herbs, through a wire sieve to remove the outer skin. 
Add the rest of the ingredients, form into croquettes 
and fry or bake in small dishes in a hot oven. A nice 
sauce to eat with these is made by mixing a little tomato 
pur4e with an ordinary apple sauce. 

CHEESE SOUFFLE 

Put a quarter of a pint of milk and two ounces of 
butter on the fire and when it boils thicken with two 
ounces of flour diluted with the rest of the milk, 



MARCH 89 

return to the fire till it boils, then add two ounces of 
grated cheese (half Paimesan and half Gruyere), a 
little mustard, two well-whisked whole eggs and two 
extra whites, stir well, adding the whites last, pour into 
a buttered souffle dish and bake half an hour. 

WOODLANDS CHEESE FRITTERS 

Cut some cheese into thin strips about two inches 
long and one inch wide, put them on a dish and sprinkle 
well with oil and vinegar and let thtm stand half an 
hour. Prepare the following batter : sieve two ounces 
of flour and a pinch of salt into a basin, make a hole 
in the middle and mix smooth into the flour three 
tablespoonfuls of tepid water and a teaspoonful of salad 
oil, beat all into a batter, lastly add the whisked white 
of an egg and stir it lightly in. Have ready a deep 
pan of frying fat, when a bluish smoke rises dip a 
piece of cheese on a skewer into the batter and then 
drop it into the fat and fry a golden brown ; drain well 
on paper before serving. 

NVT SOUFFLS 

Two ounces of ground walnuts (or walnut meal), 
two ounces of bread crumbs soaked in milk, a spoonful 
of grated horse-radish, beat all together, add a well- 
beaten egg and bake quickly, and serve hot. 

Walnut meal is sold at Bilson's, 88 Gray's Inn Eoad 
at Is. M. a pound. 

CELERY AL POMIDOEO 
(From 'Leaves from Our Tuscan Kitchen ') 

Wash 3 heads of celery, boil in an earthen pan for 
20 minutes. Drain and dry and put them on a dish and 
pour over them a half-pint of tomato sauce. Serve hot. 



APBIL 

Sonnet on Friendship — The Passing of War — Surprise Visit^from 
a Badger — difE Gardens — Sandgate Castle — A Well-known 
Quotation — Our Italian Tour — Work in the Garden — ^Animal 
and Bird Life — ^Bulb Leaves — ^The One-legged Blackbird — 
Rampion — Pruning the Peach-trees — Violets — A Canine 
Hostess — ^Eoses and Asters — The English Climate — Vegetable 
Becipes. 

Do you know this sonnet of Christina Eossetti's ? 
I do think it is so pretty, and it belongs to Friendship 
as to all other kinds of Love. 

Bemember me when I am gone away, 
Gone far away into the silent laud, 
When you can no more hold my hand. 
Nor I half turn to go, yet turning stay. 
Eemember me when no more day by day 
You tell me of your future that you planned. 
Only remember ; you understand 
It will be late to counsel then or pray. 
Yet if you should forget me for a while 
And afterwards remember do not grieve. 
For if the darkness and corruption leave 
A vestige of the thoughts that once I had. 
Better by far you should forget and smile 
Than that you should remember and be sad. 

How hard it is to get away from the poetry of one's 
own time — Christina Eossetti, the Brontes, Mrs. 
Browning — ^how I still love those sad nineteenth- 
century women, though no doubt the present phase of 
robust gaiety is healthier and better ; but I feel a 

90 



APRIL 91 

sentimental mood on me to-night which is rare for me 
now. ' Alas ! what is life, what is death, what are 
we ? ' It is a Greek saying, ' The souls of the just are 
in the Hand of God.' If, then, the souls of the just, 
so also the souls of children, for these have done no 
ill. I like that far better than that ' we are born in 
sin,' &o. — ^that is a terrible idea. 

Is death as sad as life ? 

Soon we shall know : 
It does not seem to me 

They find it so 
Who die, and going from us 

Smile as they go. 

Our vicar here in Cobham published last year a 
book that has already gone to a third edition ; it is 
called ' The Passing of War,' a study in things that 
make for peace (Macmillan & Co.). According to 
your ideas and mine it is splendid, and very modern 
that a clergyman should take up such a subject, for 
has not the Church always been on the side of war, 
and have not most of the wars of the world had their 
root and origin in religious controversies ? Canon 
Grane says : ' The world at large to-day is no more 
convinced that war is wrong than that it is futile, 
and the main reason of this is that the power of religion 
to promote peace on earth — ^like so much else of 
essential Christianity — ^remains practically untried 
in any large and serious way.' But I do maintain 
that the whole tone, ia spite of armaments and constant 
press alarms, has, I am sure, changed very much in the 
last few years, and it is not without almost prophetic 
importance that King Edward in his last message to 
Convocation said, ' I am convinced that, as civilisation 



92 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

advances, the influence of Christian teaching will 
tend increasingly to inculcate the love of peace.' 
Strange that it has taken nineteen centuries to believe 
that much ! I must hope that the time wUl come 
when the United States of Europe will be a fact and 
carry out what Sir Edward Grey said the other day : 
' Only one thing will really affect the mihtary and 
naval expenditure of the world on the wholesale 
scale on which it must be affected if there is to be 
a real and sure relief ; you wiU not get it until nations 
do what individuals have done — come to regard and 
appeal to law as the natural course for nations instead 
of an appeal to force ! ' It is not so very long ago 
that good people thought that it was a f?ct that 
the world, and morality with it, would go to rack 
and ruin if duelling was pronounced illegal. People 
no longer cross over to France with the hope of killing 
each other, and yet there seemed more sense in that 
(except that the innocent one generally got killed), 
than that huge bodies of men who have nothing against 
one another, standing almost out of sight of each 
other, should be mown down by what looks hke 
nothing but a puff of smoke. 

A very exciting natural history event happened 
here the other day. My gardener asked me to come 
out and see an animal he had shot in my field ; it 
turned out to be a badger : the under-gardener saw 
its head poking out of the ground and was considerably 
alarmed at so large and strange a beast being there. 
None of us had ever seen a badger before, but its curious 
bark had been heard some nights previously when 
my man-servant went to a neighbour with a note- 
I was very sorry the poor beast had been killed. 



APRIL 93 

The common badger (Males Taxus) is the only 
quadruped of the bear family now found in the British 
Isles, and is one of the few remaining wild animals in 
England, as even foxes are preserved. The flesh 
of the badger used to be eaten and was thought very 
agreeable, especially when cured in the form of hams ; 
it is one of the most perfectly omnivorous feeders 
of all animals in a wild state as well as in confinement. 
Badger-baiting was a popular but cruel sport, and ' to 
badger,' expressive of persevering annoyance, was 
originally employed with reference to the practice 
of badger-baiting. This badger was a fine specimen, 
and weighed twenty-eight pounds, and was an 
unexpected find in a little suburban domain like this. 
The gardener very successfully stuffed it. To reach 
the field where it was found from the woods where it 
had been disturbed it had to cross the tarred and 
much frequented Portsmouth Road. 

The white chalk cliffs in the South of England, 
especially about Dover, Folkestone, &c.,are beautifully 
covered with wild flowers in the spring, and many of 
the types of our garden vegetables are natives of the 
sea-shore, and amongst the earliest wild flowers in 
bloom are the yellow flowers of the wild cabbage 
{Brassica oleracea). The cultivated cabbage was, 
I believe, introduced like so many other plants, by 
the Romans, and the cabbage is remarkable for 
the number of variations it assumes under cultivation. 
Later on, I am told, the cliff is blue with the well-known 
viper's bugloss {Echium vulgare), the blue-bells are 
much variegated because of the buds and stamens 
being pink, and when in a mass a rich purple is the 
result. Old Gerarde supposes the plant to possess 



94 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

sovereign virtues against snake bites, as well as a 
sort of supernatural power over scorpions and other 
venomous reptiles. As the summer advances the 
cliffs are yellow with ragwort and covered with black- 
berries &c. I stayed at Sandgate, which I infinitely 
prefer to Folkestone, and being close down on the 
sea and under the cUff, is always charming, but the 
more Enghsh seaside places I see the more I rejoice that 
in the old days we always went to France for the 
holidays, and though punished by all three sons having 
typhoid at once we persevered and went again. 

The little cliff gardens in seaside places can be 
so pretty with very Uttle expense or work, and 
should not be made formal or even too tidy : terraced, 
if possible, with stone walls and no mortar- or cement, 
and some plants suitable for each month. Permanent 
things that do all the year round, a tamarisk, or even 
a fig-tree, and Euonymus planted just in the right place 
to make shade and protection from wind ; the large 
shrubby Hypericum, Iris, Japanese anemones, Mon- 
bretias — ^these only need dividing every few years — 
Sedums of all kinds planted in the walls and a few 
easily satisfied annuals, carnations, trailing and dwarf 
Nasturtiums, especially a dark-red dwarf one, and the 
sun-loving Eschscholzias — ^aU these things make a 
charming garden. If there is room, one or two plants 
of sea-kale and one plant of the large Globe artichoke, 
bad for eating but very ornamental, which does so 
well by the sea, can be added. The little garden just 
needs someone who loves it who will look to right things 
being planted and sown at the correct time of the year. 
The sea buckthorn is a lovely shrub, but if you want 
it to berry you must be sure to plant the female as 



APRIL 95 

well as the male plant, for it is like the Aucuba, and 
the two plants must be rather near together so that the 
bees or the wind may carry pollen from one to the other. 
The old castle at Sandgate, which seems now to 
have been built on the beach, though, of course, the sea 
has encroached and licked away the walls, was buUt 
by Henry VIII., though it may have had older founda- 
tions — ^he usually built his defences with stones from a 
neighbouring destroyed monastery ; this was the case 
here, supplemented by stones quarried on the shore, 
where there is plenty of stone. This castle was never, 
I beheve, of the shghtest use from a military point of 
view. The cannon &c. were removed in the nineteenth 
century ; it has the attraction that all old unrestored 
buildings have. I wonder how much of the nation's 
money has been wasted in times of panic, urged on 
by military zeal for the protection of our shores. You 
constantly see at Sandgate — ^if you have seeing eyes, 
which so many have not — ^large stone balls on walls 
and gateways as ornaments ; these have been found 
at low water on the beach and are supposed to have 
been thrown out of Eoman ships and other ships when 
attacking our barbaric ancestors. Certainly, when 
in the neighbourhood, Dover Castle is well worth a 
visit ; it carries one through the centuries of England's 
history. It was much improved and fortified by the 
Eomans ; the Normans increased the defences till 
the entire hill was surrounded by Norman walls 
and watch-towers. In spite of many alterations it 
still remains a fine type of a Norman castle : the very 
deep weUs were dug in the chalk by the Eomans, and 
have never run dry, and the tower with the Phare on 
the top still exists where the beacons were burnt 



96 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

nightly through the ages till lighthouses were invented, 
and I think the first Eddystone lighthouse which was 
BO shortly to be washed away was not built till 1696. 
The French have kept to the Latin name of ' Phare,' 
while we have changed it to ' lighthouse,' and I saw 
in an old print the other day what we now call the old 
Eoman beacon tower at Alexandria named ' Pharaoh's 
Tower ' instead of Phare. The underground passages, 
which are very numerous, cut in the chalk, are not 
shown without a special order and I did not see them. 
Here, in Dover Castle, Charles I. received his beautiful 
French bride, and here she took leave of him — never 
to see him again — on her return to the French Couit. 
There is within the castle an old Saxon church which 
was used until the beginning of the eighteenth 
century, when it was dismantled and turned into a 
storehouse and its bells sent to Portsmouth ; we 
don't do quite such barbaric things now. 

I have at last found out the answer to the question 
you put to me not long ago, what was the origin of 
the saying, ' Pouring oil on the troubled waters,' 
which many people think is in the Bible. I met at 
luncheon the other day a distinguished literary man, 
and I said to myself here is one who will be able to 
answer my question. He thought a moment and 
then said, ' I do not remember, but I will look it up.' 
A day or two after, my friend wrote : ' The earliest 
use of an expression analogous to oil on the troubled 
waters is to be found in Plutarch. It is expounded 
by the elder Pliny in one of his letters. In English 
it is first found in the writings of the Venerable Bede.' 
Now are you satisfied ? 

Does April ever come round without your recalling 



APRIIi 97 

our delightful lark in Italy which everyone thought 
was going to be such a failure and we thought such 
a success ; the reason my luxurious relations pro- 
phesied disaster was that it was the putting into effect 
what had been the dream of myhfe — travelling cheaply 
in Italy. As they might be of some use to the readers 
of these letters, I am sending you some notes I made 
after we came home. We started a party of four, and 
the iaterest of what I have to say is perhaps principally 
owing to the fact that we tried to do it as economically 
as possible, and that, out of the four, three were 
vegetarians. We had Cook's circular tickets, second 
class, which everybody thought was very undignified 
and uncomfortable, but it did not prove so at aU. 
The ItaKans we travelled with from time to time were 
always most civil and obUgiag, and if the second class 
is very crowded, well, one can always travel third ! 
The only luxurious way of travelling in these days in 
Italy would be in a large closed motor ; I am told the 
roads are being improved to accommodate such 
travellers. I used to think my mother so wonderfully 
brave in traveUing with us four children in the old days 
of the vetturinos, but I quite beUeve that the continual 
changing from trains into omnibuses with such a party 
in the present day would be much more of a strain and 
far more tiring. The crowds in spring are not so great 
as in the autumn ; we saw few EngUsh, Americans, or 
Germans. Another advantage of travelling in spring 
is that the weather is cool, and there are few mosquitos. 
It is imperatively necessary to be at the stations a 
long time before the train starts, as all luggage, except 
what is taken in the carriages, has to be weighed, 
registered, and paid for. 



98 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

For anyone to whom strict economy is not necessary, 
a small box in the van is a great convenience, as over- 
crowding the carriage with hold-aUs and packages is 
very uncomfortable : the Italian railway companies 
wUl take nothing in the van that is not locked : small 
padlocks fastened to the straps of hold-alls after they 
have been fastened up are sufficient protection to 
allow them to be put in the van. In travelling through 
or on long distances at any time it is most important 
that travellers, especially vegetarians, should take 
their food with them, principally for health reasons, 
as railway restaurants are full of dust and not to be 
depended upon for providing suitable food, and the 
prices are ridiculously high : takiag your own much 
reduces expenses and is much nicer. It is very unwise 
to go without warm wraps, as the temperature changes 
in the spring in Italy quite as suddenly as it does in 
England. Baedeker gives lists of hotels and prices, 
but as regards interest and instruction it cannot be 
compared with the old Murray. A small biographical 
dictionary would be a great help to anyone wishing 
to study chronologically the early Italian painters ; 
all Art is divided between those who copy what has 
gone before them and those who are the creators of 
what comes after them. Churches, of course, are free, 
but there is generally a shrine or some precious picture 
to be seen, for which a special charge is made. It is 
very desirable to arrive at the towns early in the day, 
as it gives one the chance of choosing among the smaller 
hotels those which look the cleanest and seem most 
conveniently situated. The advantage of travelling 
in Italy is that we never saw at any time the shadow 
or the hint of that curse of Switzerland, the table d'hote. 



APRIL 99 

Working on the lines of feeding outside at small 
restaurants, the food of the day need cost no more than 
five to seven francs a day. An india-rubber bath is 
desirable, but it is difficult to get hot water, especially 
in the mornings, and it is grudgingly doled out by the 
chambermaid : at one hotel it had to be fetched from 
the other side of the Place. I think it better to spend 
money in luxurious baths in the hotel, though it costs 
two francs each time ; all the hotels that we saw, except 
one, had bathrooms. To make all this of any use, 
I must give a list of the places we visited. We made a 
night journey through to Lucerne, sitting up all the 
time. I have a horror of wagons-lits, which are full of 
germs, our only discomfort being the heat of the 
carriage, which was so great that the vaseline in my 
hold-all melted all over my clothes : the stains were an 
unpleasant reminder during the rest of the journey. 
We arrived at Lucerne at seven on a lovely spring 
morning, spent the day strolling about, and I did 
remark how very much more beautiful Switzerland 
is in early spring with the leafless brown and purple 
trees against the snow than with the crude green of 
summer. We went on the next morning the lovely 
journey to MUan, but the weather was not favourable, 
and this decided us definitely not to stay at the Lakes ; 
it was too early in the year. At Milan our little cheap 
hotel was rather trying in a very narrow street, and the 
tram-cars looking in at the window, and a man in a shop 
opposite spying on us through opera-glasses. I had 
not been to Milan for years, and I did think the often- 
abused Cathedral very beautiful, especially when the 
afternoon sun shines in at the open doors ; it is solemn 
and impressive to a degree. We did a great deal of 

H 2 



100 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

sight-seeing, the Brera &c., and admired the lovely 
portraits by Van Dyck and Eembrandt, besides the 
pictures of the older school by Bellini, Luiai, &c. 
Of course we visited the Oertosa di Pavia, which none 
of us had ever seen. In the monks' room I was much 
struck by a cupboard- which might be of use in many 
small houses. It opened at the top, had two shelves 
inside, and when the door was pulled down it formed a 
table, the panel forming a strong leg. The beautiful 
church, with fourteen side chapels, has some wonderful 
carving which was completed in eight generations, 
each man teachiug his son or nephew to go on with the 
work. Our next halting-place was Verona. One of our 
party went on ahead to secure rooms in the little hotel 
by the Adige, which was a rushing torrent swelled by 
the melting snows. Of course everyone knows that 
Verona is one of the most beautiful cities in Italy, 
interesting from the splendid Roman remains and the 
materialising of Shakespeare's 'Borneo and Juliet.' 
The view from the top of the arena to which we 
climbed well repays the difficult ascent. I was rather 
painfully struck with the taint of the German occupa- 
tion, which still remains ; but, artistically, I was over- 
whelmed with admiration for the pavements here and 
in other churches in North Italy : they are splendid, 
the marbles are as good as the day they were laid down, 
the patterns vary immensely, the colours are always 
the same — ^red, black, white, and slate. I wonder the 
rich do not import these marbles from Italy and copy 
the Verona patterns. We were also much struck by 
the modern appreciation of the beautiful as shown by 
the careful preservation of all the old pictures, statues, 
churches, &c.; contrasted by the badness of the present 



APRIL loi 

taste as shown in the statues of Victor Emmanuel, 
Cavour, and Garibaldi, everywhere so hideously ugly, 
like the statues, only worse, that are in the famous 
cemetery at Genoa. We went on to Padua and stayed 
there two or three days. The Botanic Medicine Garden 
is the oldest in Europe ; it is very beautiful and fairly 
well kept up : it was full of my favourite tamarisk 
igallica rubra), which I brought back years ago from 
Aix, and which has proved quite hardy here. At Padua 
it was lovely, like one huge pink feather ; the beds 
were surrounded by cut stone. It was interesting 
to think how important this garden must have been 
in the Middle Ages. Italy seems much the same 
externally as it was in my youth, with trains, trams, 
electric Hghting and some drainage added ; the shops, 
too, are better, and more like France. St. Anthony 
pervades the atmosphere of Padua much as St. Francis 
does at Assisi. The equestrian statue of Gattamelata; 
by Donatelloi is really magnificent, and the only one 
he ever made and the first equestrian statue since the 
Eoman time. From Padua we spent a most glorious 
day at Vicenza ; in a way, it fascinated me the most 
of any place I saw this time : it has lovely views and 
hills quite close, which reminded me of Florence and 
the Val d'Arno — ^the Austrian Alps to the north and 
the Euganean hiUs to the south ; rising out of the plain 
they have beautiful slopes, and are curiously suggestive 
in colour and form of the backgrounds of the old 
pictures of this part of Italy. We separated at Padua; 
two of our party leaving us to visit the tiny Eepublic 
of San Marino, and Ij with one companionj went on to 
Venice. Our stay at Venice was a great contrast to the 
rest of the tour, as we were entertained in a beautiful 



102 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

palace by a hospitable friend. We saw something of 
the English colony, a few beautiful gardens, and the 
famous Layard collection of pictures which were left 
to the National Gallery — ^but have not yet arrived. 
Lady Layard showed us round, which made it much 
more interesting, and said how she would like to see 
them in the National Gallery. I am ashamed to say 
I could not resist reminding her that it would only be 
a bird's-eye view, as we both knew they were not to 
come to England till after her death. I was told 
' L'Art ItaUen,' par M. de Eio, 2 vols., was a very good 
book, but I have not read it yet. Not the least in- 
teresting part to us was visiting the gardens, the soil of 
which, at one time covered by the sea, contains no earth- 
worms. The one that made the most impression upon 
us was at Murano ; it had beautiful views of the moun- 
tains across the lagoon, the garden was a mass of blue — 
iris, paullonias, and wistarias were in bloom every- 
where, and masses of evergreens cut in the old Italian 
style, and marble pillars and quantities of the Spirsea 
called ' Italian May.' The roots of the irises were not 
so much on the surface as they are here ; they cover 
them up in winter. A beautiful pergola, made of old 
marble pillars, was ingeniously arranged to appear old 
by planting dead vines with young live ones at their 
roots and using the old brown stems as supports for the 
young growth : no one suspected the deception, as the 
trunk and stem of a live vine of a certain age has just 
the same appearance as a dead one, and when the young 
vines reached maturity the old wood can be cut away. 
One day, looking out on to the Grand Canal, 
we saw a funeral pass, or rather the gondola, that repre- 
sented a hearse, rowed by four men, the barge all black 



APRIL 103 

and silver with a silver angel with outstretched wand and 
the torch turned down ; behind was a silver cross, and 
the coffin was in the middle draped in black. It seemed 
a pretty way of going to one's last resting-place. The 
next day we saw Queen Alexandra hurrying to the 
station with her suite, having heard that King Edward 
was ill. We left Venice in sadness, I, at least, feeling 
sure I should never see it again, and went straight by 
train to Eaveima and were there joined by our other 
two friends. We spent one whole lovely day in what is 
always to me Byron's forest. I found in the Pineta 
rock-roses, honeysuckle, coronUla, lilac orchises, pale 
and long deep-purple ones in a ditch, Italian spurge, 
yellow and red Uke a real flower, Ornithogalum nutans 
growing small in the dry grass, the beautiful blue 
Lithosfermum creeping through the low bushes, 
juniper, Berberis Barwini, and quantities of clematis. 
The lizards were Uke little green crocodiles and plenty of 
them. The memorial of the War of Independence at 
Eavenna is the best we saw, the four hons at the base 
are really fine, and full of expression, intended to repre- 
sent the four phases of the movement which ended so 
triumphantly. Garibaldi's first wife died at a cottage 
near Eaveima. We had seeuj when at Milan, the 
beautiful recumbent statue of Gaston de Foix, erected 
to his memory in 1 551 . At Eavenna there is a memorial 
statue to a dead warrior, Guidarello Guidarelli, who 
died in 1511. I wonder if the connoisseurs think that 
these were done by the same man, or did the sculptor 
of Gaston de Foix, who died before the statue was quite 
completed, copy the one at Eavenna ; they are so much 
aUke, but the one at Eavenna is, I think, in some ways 
the finer of the two, though they have, for some barbaric 



104 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

reason, cut off half the drapery. We went to Eimini, 
which was the only place where we had bad weather, 
and the old town reminded me of the Italy of my 
youth — cold and dark hotel, no baths, no improvement, 
and drains in the middle of the streets emitting un- 
savoury odours. All that is modern at Eimini is 
at the sea front, where a fashionable estabUshment has 
been built on French lines. The feature of Rimini 
is the castle of the ferocious family of the Malatesta, 
who built a church and decorated it largely to their 
own glorification : it is full of the tombs of poets, 
philosophers, and soldiers who thronged to the Malatesta 
Court. The house of the famous Francesca da Eimini 
is unknown. There is a most beautiful Eoman bridge 
and many other Eoman remains. We returned to 
Eavenna for the night, and without any warning read 
in an Italian newspaper of the death of King Edward 
four days after it took place. We stopped one night 
at Bologna, which is on the old road between Venice 
and Florence, and saw the wonderful leaning towers. 
I remember driving through Bologna as a girl and being 
impressed by the beautiful arcades. We hurried on 
to Turin on our way home, made another night journey, 
still second class, travelling by the Mont Cenis railway, 
after spending a day seeing pictures &c. at Turin. 
We arrived at Paris at seven o'clock in the morning, 
drove across to the hotel at the Gare du Nord, break- 
fasted and rested for two hours ; then we drove to the 
Salon, and after this took another carriage, went to the 
Bois, came back to the hotel, dined and went to bed, 
starting for England at seven o'clock next morning. 
In the train I made friends with two young French 
newspaper reporters who were on their way to London 



APRIL 105 

for the funeral of the King. With characteristic 
French openness one of them pointed to a black bag 
and said : ' A good deal of the account is in there ; in 
fact two accounts, one for a fine day and one for a wet.' 
They asked me to put them right as to the position of 
the Prince of Wales and other royalties. They could 
neither of them speak any English. One of them 
afterwards sent me his newspaper with the account of 
the funeral procession in London, winding up with the 
fact that, in spite of the sadness of the occasion, the 
beautiful May sunshine conquered all. The best 
interest to my readers of these very scrappy notes is 
that I took with me my Cook's tourist ticket, which 
cost £1 1 , and £50 in my purse ; we were away six weeks, 
and I returned home triumphantly with £25 change ! 
Needless to say, we were all women. Most men's 
ideas of going abroad is to spend money recklessly. 

M. T. Eaele. 

Notes from Bedhazel. 

April 2nd. — The lessons learned through sad experi- 
ence are the most lasting, but it is humiUating to find 
what mistakes one can make after years of gardening ; 
one needs to do every httle thing oneself to learn its true 
value, and the danger of doing the thing just not quite 
right. My half-hardy annuals in the hotbed were 
being eaten by slugs, and I put soot and lime on them 
to check this, but alas ! I used the lime on two tender 
seedlings and they were burnt up in the most heart- 
rending way. The well-known pink, Mrs. Sinkins, 
has suffered most severely this winter, and the pieces 
I put in, in October, have most of them rotted away. 
I went round the old plants to-day and put a good heap 



io6 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

of road-grit and fresh earth on each plant to give the 
shoots support and nourishment. I was asked to-day 
what I meant by road-scrapings as grit ; this is a thing 
that is getting rare and precious because of the tar on 
the main roads, but there are still many side roads and 
lanes which are free from tar and motor oil and when 
the men cut the grass edges they scrape up the sandy 
deposits which settle at the side of the road and brush 
them into heaps to be carried away, and these can often 
be bought quite cheaply ; people with drives can use 
their own, and even the brushings from a gravel path 
are good mixed with old leaf-mould. 

5th. — The wind to-day was awful. I took hammer 
and nails and fastened up all the loose pieces of the 
creepers on the house and cottage, staked the crown 
imperials and pruned the tea-roses, gave the Lent 
hellebores and Christmas roses some liquid manure ; it 
is now they are in full growth and making their leaves. 
I pricked out snapdragons and ' Marguerite ' carnations 
and weeded some of the beds ; this should be done 
with the greatest care. I am quite sure that what makes 
all the difference between the teeming interest and 
variety of many gardens cared for by their owners and 
the prim sameness of many others is just the rage that 
gardeners have for forking over beds at the most vital 
seasons — autumn, when the precious self-sown seedlings 
are just up, and spring, when many treasures are 
just below the surface, and before they can get to the 
light the cruel prong has nipped them and they die 
in despair, and no one seems to guess why the expected 
plant does not appear. One cannot have great tidiness 
and freshly raked beds in the growing season without 
slaughter and loss of many plants. I have a pair of 



APRIL 107 

steel tweezers bought at the chemist's for picking up 
the slugs which collect under the half oranges and 
cabbage-leaves which I have aU about the garden. 
I put an end to what was going to be such a happy- 
family party to-day. I caught a field mouse under a 
sea-kale pot ; she felt so warm in my hand I was loath 
to have her killed, but letting her go on other people's 
land is not quite fair, and I cannot spare all my peas 
to feed her family. A friend told me to-day of a bird 
that had buUt in the thatch of her cottage ; finding no 
good support for the nest it had wedged a stick through 
the wire used to keep the thatch flat and built its nest 
thus in safety. 

I see a tiresome extra work before me, the garden 
level has been so much raised that many of the bulbs 
are now too deep, and nothing is more fatal to daffodils 
than too deep planting ; I must dig them up and put 
them nearer the surface. A very intelUgent gardening 
friend told me to-day she had only just learned that 
it was fatal to cut all the leaves off the bulbs before 
they turned yellow. There may be other people who 
do not realise the importance of this precaution, so I 
will copy out what Mr. Chittenden of Wisley has 
kindly written for our instruction : 

' All the food plants use for growing, &c., is made 
by them in their green leaves. The substances 
they gain from the soil and air are not actual foods but 
stuffs of which foods are to be made in the green 
leaves during the hours of light. To deprive a plant 
of its green leaves, then, is to cause it to be starved, not 
suffocated. Thus, taking off the leaves of bulbous 
plants before they naturally die lessens the amount of 
food stored up in the bulb for the start of next year's 



io8 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

gro\ftb and for the development of the flower, which, by 
the way, is accomplished the year before the flower 
actually appears. 

' Leaves also breathe in the same way as we do, but 
then so do all parts of the plant so long as they are alive, 
and the reason so many plants die in houses where 
they are given a little water to go on with in the jars 
or saucers in which they are stood is that the roots die 
of suffocation.' 

I am watering the Italian oil jars, my latest pur- 
chase, with liquid manure to make them turn old- 
looking and encourage a mossy growth. The jars came 
in their wicker baskets, so I sent for a chair- and basket- 
mender, who cut the top in order to lift out the jar and 
then bound round the cut edge. They make very 
good baskets for the garden, and hold such things as 
rose-clippings and long sticks much better than a trug 
or a barrow. 

7th. — I saw to-day some fine plants of Sweet Williams 
that were cuttings taken last autumn ; they all look 
ready to throw up early flower-stems. I shall remember 
this next autumn, as old plants invariably die in the 
winter and one is often short of seedlings. Watching 
the birds in the spring is a great interest in the country. 
Years ago we had a cook who knew all the blackbirds 
and thrushes by sight ; one had only one foot and it was 
seen one year with a mate : ' Lame blackbird's going 
to get married, Miss,' I was told one morning. ' Yes, 
he's got as smart a wife as any, peg leg and all. Well, 
there's one thing, some women will marry anything 
in a pair of trousers.' People who encourage the birds 
and keep cats often find it difficult to find a place to 
put a bird-box, as trees are not the least safe. I saw 



APRIL 109 

one to-day hung on a house between two windows 
out of any cat's reach, but whether the tits will build 
there or not remains to be seen. This is the time of 
year to increase your stock of Delphiniums, Phlox, 
Anchusa and other perennials that have shoots from 
which to make cuttings. They strike best in pots, with 
the cuttings put round the edge and the pots stood 
under a bell-glass. I have picked a lot of Eibes for the 
house, and when the flower is faded I put the pieces into 
sand under a bell-glass ; they will very likely all strike, 
and I am going to make a hedge in the autumn of Eibes. 
10th. — The wind has taken all the colour out 
of the flowers and shrivelled up the tender green of 
many plants. After such a wet winter it is very 
difficult to prepare a seed-bed successfully on heavy 
land ; the earth, when it is dug, dries in hard lumps, and 
even if the seed-bed is well prepared a few showers and 
then a dry wind leave it caked and hard once more ; 
the earth must be continually stirred between the 
plants, and the hoe used between rows of seedlings 
directly they appear. How difficult it is to get up 
any sort of water plant ! I was grubbing in a ditch 
to-day after water-mint and meadow-sweet, but one 
carmot see the plants early in the year, and now they 
are so far up that I fear they will not transplant. 
I have potted up the shoots of dahlias that I took from 
the old plant, as I only leave one shoot to each stool. 
I am hesitating about putting the chrysanthemums 
out of doors ; I have planted the early flowering kinds 
in beds, and they have taken no harm. The despair- 
ing thing about gardening is the constant fear of 
forgetting some important work. We all have some 
pet plant or vegetable we like to grow which is not 



no POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

mentioned in ' Garden Diary ' or in the weekly advice of 
the garden papers, and this is just the time of year 
when the variety of the work makes it so easy to forget 
some part of it. Eampion is a plant I cannot do 
without. It is a biemiial, and I am always afraid I shall 
forget to sow it ; it is, of course, very useful as a 
vegetable — ^in fact, I know of no other plant more 
completely eatable — as the leaves can be eaten as a 
salad or as spinach, and the roots cooked with a white 
sauce, but it is for the beautiful flower that I prize it 
so much ; it is the wild campanula that grows so 
luxuriantly in Switzerland. 

12th. — I keep going round the garden, planting 
and replanting, dividing everything that is too big and 
filling up spaces in the herbaceous borders with seeds 
or seedUngs. I have a box of autumn-sown candy- 
tuft that is very useful, and Sweet Alyssum sown 
in a box is big enough to transplant, and is so hardy 
it can go outdoors at once. The alteration I have 
made in the rock-garden has left big spaces to cover, 
so I am planting pieces of cat-mint (Nepeta cataria), 
which can be divided to any extent just now. Every 
year I feel more and more convinced that April is the 
right month to move most small plants ; they begin 
to grow at once, but if transplanted in October they 
lie dormant all winter and the slugs lie at the roots and 
eat the first young shoots. In showery weather now 
so much can be done on heavy land where the soil 
clings to the roots. My bonfire is the greatest help 
in providing a good light soil for seedlings ; the ground 
on which the fire is always lit burns away and mixes 
with the wood-ashes ; this is sifted and put away in 
boxes in the barn, so there is always a supply of dry soil 



APRIL III 

in which to sow seeds. I have had the comfort of an 
enthusiastic young lady gardener for the last week, 
and I gave her a most trying occupation that I had not 
the courage to undertake ; this was thinning the 
spring growth of the peach-trees. I first paid a visit 
to a wonderful little garden where a man and his son 
grow cucumbers, tomatos, peaches, and chrysanthe- 
mums in three long, low houses constructed mostly 
by themselves, and saw how his were thirmed and 
tied in, and this [gave me courage to have mine 
attacked. No book gave me the same feeling of 
knowledge ; I may be extra stupid, but a technical 
description of pruning always produces a sort of 
paralysis of the brain, the very words ' terminals ' 
and ' laterals,' though quite simple and descriptive, 
become ridiculously confusing in a long detailed 
would-be instructive discourse. This, in very plain, 
ungardening language, is what we did : the new shoots 
on the trees, growing under the glass, intended to be 
in a fan shape, were growing all round ; we first took 
off all those growing at the back towards the glass and 
those growing forward, then all the weak shoots at 
the sides were removed, and all shoots thinned till 
they were three inches apart, only retaining those 
needed to make the trees a good shape when they have 
grown. At the base of the trees we kept as much 
growth as possible, the idea being to make a well- 
shaped fan starting as far back as possible and ex- 
tending on both sides, but letting no growth remain 
which would make a tangle of growth and so impoverish 
the ttee. There should be wires from each of the 
horizontal ones to form a network of squares ; the 
trees are now syringed every day, and once a week with 



113 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

an insecticide. The growth of plants varies so much 
that one is very apt to think some plants are dead be- 
cause they make no show when Delphiniums, Lupins, 
and Paeonies are so forward and vigorous. Czar and 
Prince of Wales violets grown in the open require 
rather strong soil, but, above everything, a good clear 
atmosphere. The plants are best divided in April into 
single crowns, each crown having a piece of root, and 
planted out in well-prepared ground in rows fifteen 
inches apart. If you are pressed for room they can 
be planted between fruit-trees ; they hke half-shade, 
and if in too sunny a position are apt to be attacked 
by red spider in summer. All runners must be cut 
off as soon as they appear, copious watering in dry 
weather and occasionally liquid manure should be given, 
and early in September a mulch of leaf-mould or 
rotted manure ; the flowers will appear in September 
and bloom in open weather all the winter. When the 
violets are out I want to give up half the garden 
to them, but in April, when so much else is claiming 
more space, I feel grudgingly about the small patch 
of ground they occupy. This is often the case, and one 
must exercise one's imagination and prepare for the 
duller days; the treasures that light up the sombre 
garden of winter and early spring are worth more to 
us than some of the gay flowers of summer. I have 
just read the following note in Gardening Illustrated, 
and felt thankful that there was yet time to sow violet 
cress {lonopsidium acaule). ' This charming httle Portu- 
guese annual, if sown in the open border in the spring, 
will produce countless seedlings which will flower in a 
short time ; after they have bloomed the plants seed 
freely. The seed will germinate almost at once, and 



APRIL 



"3 



by the end of November the young plants will be in 
bloom and continue through the winter until the 
middle of February. When once this little plant takes 
to the soil it will renew itself from year to year by 
seed ; it is an invaluable plant for the rock-garden as 
its companionship will not injure the rarest Alpine, 
and if it is inclined to crowd is easily thinned out.' 
There are many plants which will look after themselves 
far better than we can provide for them. If a seed of 
almost any plant falls on the gravel path it is wonder- 
ful what a healthy seedhng will grow from it. One of 
the prettiest plant freaks I ever saw was at Woodlands ; 
a fir cone from a Scotch fir had dropped into a crevice 
between the red tiles on the top of the pillar of the 
kitchen-garden wall, and there from it grew a delightful 
dwarf tree, like a Japanese one, but, alas, as it grew 
older the dry position and want of earth starved it to 
death. 

15th. — I am in the garden every day now : the 
work is never ending. My little fox dog, Jane, is 
never with me as there are visitors, and her idea of an 
ideal hostess is one who never leaves a guest. She did 
not learn this from me, but she keeps her opinion, and 
no amount of persuasion will tempt her to leave a 
visitor who is staying in the house for more than a few 
minutes, unless there is someone else to entertain them. 
She receives them at the front gate when they arrive 
and, until they leave, she is their constant companion ; 
after they have left she flies about in the highest spirits 
and sticks close to me till the next one comes. When 
I am away she adores the servants till I am home again ; 
I had her mother and grandmother, but, though both 
were very intelUgent, they neither of them had thig 



114 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

craze for acting hostess. My little Shetland colUe 
is devoted to her, but disagrees with her on this sub- 
ject : privately he thinks she makes a fool of herself. 
He has no conscience, and, when he is bored at home, he 
goes to the town and spends some hours flirting with 
a stout terrier old enough to be his mother. He is 
quite independent as becomes his sex, but Jane hates 
being left at home, and when the trap is out she sits 
in the hedge by the road all the time, waiting for the 
sound of the harness bell, when she runs off to meet 
us. What does she think of, all these long times ? 

20th. — Such a mild, sunny day ; I had luncheon 
in what I call the tea-house. This is a square place 
made of fir poles, four inches apart for the sides and 
roof, with a floor of red brick. It is on the north side 
of the house and quite near a door into the sitting-room. 
I have most of my meals in it during the summer, and 
I move aU the tubs of slightly tender things into it 
in November. There are roses and other creepers 
planted in a bed all round it, and a walnut-tree keeps 
ofE the hot western sun in the afternoon of summer. 

I have been cutting back the roses. As my soil 
is strong, I have cut the trees I planted last autumn 
and this early spring almost to the ground and made 
the soil firm round the roots. Many shrubs and plants 
get very loose in the ground and a Sunday saunter 
round the garden will show you which plants need a 
firm heel pressed at the roots. If we get a dry spring, 
the mulch of rotten manure I have spread round all 
the roses wiQ keep the roots moist. The vegetable 
and flower gardens are usually puUing different waySj 
but sometimes their interests are combined. The 
manure barrel is good for them both and must be 



APRIL 115 

constantly renewed if there is to be a supply of liquid 
manure for all the plants that need it. The stables 
drain into a tank from which the liquid can be baled out 
and put into the barrel, and every year I get a bag of 
hoof-parings from the forge and these are sunk in an 
old piece of sack. The strength of liquid manure must 
be judged by the colour — a light brown, like tea, is the 
proper strength. The tall single asters sown in frames 
or out of doors late in April are useful for cutting in 
August and September ; for those who need flowers to 
decorate an altar the white are especially useful. The 
' Comet ' aster is one foot high and the ' Gilded ' aster 
one and a half feet high. Both can be had in flesh, 
mauve, dark andlight (whatnurserymen call blue), white; 
and the ' Gilded ' has a yellow variety. Most people 
wish to do well with mignonette, but sowing too early 
is to court failure. I think red ' Machet ' the best, but 
others prefer the golden one ; either should be sown in 
May and thinned out to quite a foot apart — further, on 
strong soils, if the seedUngs do well — but they wiU not 
transplant unless you take up so much earth they don't 
know they are being moved, like putting a sleeping 
child into a different bed in the dark. At the edge 
of some beds, a patch of Lobelia sfeciosa, the bright blue 
trailer, always looks well, and the tail Lobelia ramosa, 
blue and pale blue, is very handsome. Again the 
rain has begun : one would think that, considering 
no one is able to acquire, even in a lifetime, a sufficiently 
accurate knowledge of weather lore to be able satis- 
factorily to foretell the weather for forty-eight hours 
in advance, we should have become convinced that 
the English climate is incomprehensible and that 
the unexpected would become the expected and we 

i2 



ii6 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

should cease to talk of the seasons as though any 
particular kind of weather should be demanded of any 
particular time of year, but it still goes on and every 
year we discuss the alteration in the climate, one year 
declaring that the earth is growing colder and the next 
putting down an abnormal rainfall to the increasing 
use of electricity. As Horace Walpole said : ' If the 
angels have any sense of fun, how we must divert them ! ' 
I suppose the only person who spoke with accuracy 
about the unusualness of the weather was Noah. Old 
diaries and letters are good reading and most comforting 
when times are bad and seasons ' contrary.' I talked to 
an old man to-day who Hved here when the forest was 
cut down over fifty years ago, and he spoke cheerfully 
of the time when it rained ' hke what it do now, for 
six months without stopping,' and he ascribed our good 
well-drained roads to the fact that, in consequence 
of the rain, they had to put double the work into 
their construction. 

This month one is often short of greens in the 
kitchen garden. Some of both the red cabbage and the 
beautiful variegated kale I planted last autumn have 
gone to seed, after being an ornament in the garden 
the whole winter, so I am using the young shoots. My 
cook was very anxious to see what they would look like 
when cooked : to her surprise they were the brightest 
green and the flavour was excellent. I often wonder 
what I should do without my old cottage. The big 
fireplace is most useful for three reasons : I throw 
into it all the dry rubbish that accumulates and the 
box of waste paper from the house ; the burning of this 
warms the cottage ; and the ashes are in a dry place and 
always at hand for me to help myself. I mentioned 



APRIL 117 

before that I lived in the cottage for three months. 
I had always longed to know what it was like to endure 
all the inconveniences that no tap or sink of any kind in 
the place and no proper cooking stove entail, and my 
experience, though not unpleasant for a time, taught me 
to have even a greater admiration and sympathy for 
the poor than I had before. How they manage to 
keep an old cottage clean at all is so wonderful to 
me, especially as there are usually menfolk coming in 
from daily work ' treading in the muck ' as they call it. 
An old cottage sheds dust at every turn, it falls in 
flakes from the whitewashed walls and ceiling and comes 
up through the badly-laid tiles sunk into the earthen 
floor, and, if one runs upstairs, the old staircase shakes 
and more white dust is scattered over the furniture. 
The chimney usually smokes unless the front door 
is left open, and if the wind ' sets that way ' the rain is 
blown into the front room ; the chimney is so wide 
the rain comes down it and puts out the fire. I was 
reminded of the words of a dear old Scotchwoman, 
who was asked, on coming south, what she thought of 
London : ' Weel,' she said, ' no much, life in London's 
just a contention wi' filth.' But, after all, country 
dirt is clean dirt as a rule. 

I have been sowing seeds of chicory in drills twelve 
inches apart ; these will have to be carefully thinned 
till each plant is four inches from its neighbour. 
Chicory is one of the best winter salads if properly 
treated, as described in our last book ; ^ the green, too, 
is excellent cooked hke spinach when quite young. 
Potato-planting is now beginning in earnest ; the best 
instrument for drawing out the drills on well-prepared 

' Qardening for the. Ignorant. 



ii8 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

ground, which was dug and manured last November, is 
what is called a Canterbury hoe ; it is shaped like a 
hoe and is four and a half inches wide, seven inches in 
length, and with it drills can be taken out very accurately 
and expeditiously. This is the best of all implements on 
any but a very light soil, where it would not offer a 
suf&cient resistance and would pass through. In light 
soils the quickest way is by means of a blunt-ended 
long-handled dibber having a tread at the side to enable 
it to be easily thrust into the soil ; after the sets are put 
in, the holes can easily be closed by drawing an ordinary 
hoe over them. Dibbling on heavy soils is a hopeless 
job, the earth sticks so tenaciously to the dibber. I 
think the ideal way of planting potatoes is to have 
the ground dug and left in ridges in the autumn ; this 
we did in the big potato patch from which we took 
the mangels and carrots in October. The potatoes 
can now be planted in the furrows and covered with 
soil from the next ridge. The only preparation 
needed now is to level the base of the furrow with 
a hoe ; the earth, owing to the influence of frost 
and rain, is in such excellent condition. This plan is 
a saving of time in the end. I do not sow many early 
turnips as those in the frame will last some time; 
phosphates and salt sprinkled on the bed help them 
to grow fast and outrun the fly which only attacks 
the young plants. I am trying some French beans 
in a frame and shall plant them out at the end of May 
if they succeed. I am getting anxious about the kales 
and cabbages, the slugs are so destructive this year ; so I 
have sown a pinch of all the different kinds in the peach- 
house and shall have some to fall back on if the out-door 
seeds fail. I have plenty of nice little cauliflower plants 
to put out. I have forgotten to plant the Chinese 



APRIL 119 

artichokes, and they are so delicious partly boiled and 
fried. I have a few growing that were overlooked when 
the bed was dug, but must plant some more at once; 
though this should have been done in February. All 
the kales are sown early, turnips and Carrots, Egyptian 
beetroot, four different sorts of onions, leeka, salsify, 
and summer cabbage. The ground, as it falls vacant 
after the winter greens are cleared away, is being used 
for more sowings of peas ; last year a mole made a tunnel 
under my early peas, so this year I sowed two lots in 
different parts of the garden. E. C. 

SUGAR-CORN SOUP 

Take all the white part from a head of celery, and a 
medium-sized onion cut into small dice, put them into a 
stewpan with two pints of milk, cook until perfectly 
tender, then add the contents of a tin of corn, boil up 
again, rub through a sieve, season, and add half a pint 
of boiling milk and stir in gently the beaten yolks of 
two eggs. Boil about one ounce of macaroni in salted 
water till quite tender (twenty minutes) and serve in 
the soup. The macaroni can be omitted. 

CARROT SOUP 

Put eight or ten finely-sliced carrots, one onion, two 
heads of celery sliced, five ounces of fresh white haricot 
beans, and four ounces of butter, in a saucepan ; cook 
over a slow fire for an hour and stir from time to time. 
Then add one and a half quarts of stock, boil one and a 
half hours and rub through a sieve. 

POTAOE SAI80N 

Put a small piece of butter in a saucepan with a 
handful of clean sorrel leaves, stir well, pour in a quart 



I20 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

of water in which one quart of haricot beans has been 
boiled, add a cupful of rice, boil for twenty minutes, 
pour on to a beaten-up egg and a lump of butter in 
the tureen. 

Potatoes are getting difficult to cook satisfactorily ; 
this is an Irish recipe : 

Boil the potatoes and bruise them very smooth on 
the board, add a little salt and gradually knead in 
flour till the dough is dry enough not to stick to the 
hands, roll out till half-an-inch thick, cut in rounds 
and cook on a girdle. 

SAUCE BECHAMEL 

So many vegetables need a white sauce and the 
one usually served is like paste when hot and forms a 
sort of blanket over the vegetable when it is cold. 
The sauce is suitable for all white vegetables or is nice 
with hard-boiled eggs. 

Put a lump of butter the size of an egg into a small 
saucepan with two tablespoonfuls of flour, mix the 
butter and flour well together on a corner of the fire 
with a wooden spoon, add half a pint of nailk ; turn 
this mixture constantly with a spoon on a moderate 
fire for a quarter of an hour ; when it is quite smooth 
and thick like cream add another lump of butter. 

NUT ROAST 

One breakfastcupful of mixed nuts ground in a mill, 
one breakfastcupful of toast crumbs ; pour a Uttle hot 
milk on the crumbs, mix, add dried herbs, press into a 
basin and bake for about an hour. 

The remains of this can be served next day cut in 



APRIL 121 

slices and made into a haricot with vegetarian stock 
thickened with baked flour and any vegetable cut 
up small and slightly fried, putting in onions or not 
according to taste. 

HOMINY CUTLETS 

Soak some hominy over night in vegetarian stock, 
then put in a casserole, with some more stock and a piece 
of butter, let this cook very slowly for about two and a 
half hours or until tender, adding more milk when it 
becomes dry, season with pepper and salt, then turn 
out and let cool ; it should be rather stiff (but soft) ; 
add a httle chopped onion and grated Parmesan cheese 
and make it into cutlets, egg and bread-crumb and fry 
in nut butter a nice golden brown and serve with the 
following sauce : Two ounces of butter and one table- 
spoonful of flour worked together in a stewpan, add a 
gill of stock, a gill of tomato pulp, and a tablespoonful 
of tomato catsup, a tiny piece of finely-chopped onion 
and salt to taste. 

CHEESE PUDDING 

Mix together Jib. grated cheese, one teacup of milk, 
one egg well beaten, a teaspoonful of butter. Bake 
in a buttered pie-dish. 

CHUTNEY 

Three tablespoonfuls of apricot jam, one tea- 
spoonful of salt, one of cayenne, two dessertspoonfuls 
of ginger powder, six sour apples and two large onions. 

Boil the apples and onions. Then mash fine and 
mix the other ingredients. 



MAY 

The Compton Gallery— Life of G. F. Watts— The House-Fly— An 
Artist's Garden — ^A Contrast — Barr's New Nursery — Shrubs on 
Lawns — German Wses — ^Artistic Success — Epimediums — ^A 
Cure for Sleeplessness — ^Rockeries in Autumn — Cuttings — 
Sending for the Doctor — ^The Swarming of the Bees — Vegetable 
Recipes. 

I TOOK a friend over yesterday to see the Watts' 
Gallery at Compton, a village just below the Hog's 
Back, near Guildford. Oh ! what a joy it is to take 
a sympathetic friend to see something one has loved 
and admired for years. My friend, who knew Httle 
of Watts' work, was deeply impressed and full of 
admiration. Many of the pictures at Compton I have 
known all my life in Watts' various old studios. This 
little gallery is an absolute revelation to those who 
have not known the treasures in the little vUlage of 
Compton, and one stands amazed that all this beauty 
and labour is really only the ' crumbs that remain ' 
of Watts' genius, for all his more finished work is in 
galleries, private collections, America, the Colonies, &o. 
A fine sunny day adds immensely to the pleasure and 
reveals hidden beauties in oil pictures. The loving 
hand of Mrs. Watts has collected, outside the gallery 
in a passage, HoUyer's photographs of all the pictures 
he ever painted, most interesting to the student. A 
pious pilgrimage should also be made to the tomb 

122 



MAY 123 

of the great artist at the back of the interesting and 
unusual mortuary chapel, designed and built by Mrs. 
Watts. This chapel is often forgotten by those who go 
to the gallery, and yet it is most original and interesting 
work, leaving much to your imagination, and as the 
spirit moves, giving you tenfold your bargain, which 
to my mind is the test of real art, each one to a certain 
degree making his own interpretation. The chapel 
stands on raised ground, with trees round it ; here 
the dead are laid at peace, and the beautiful memorial 
to Watts himself is in the left-hand corner of the grave- 
yard. A great many people do not understand the 
meaning of the chapel at all. A clear understanding of 
the external work in terracotta is much helped by the 
short account of the same, given by Mrs. Watts, called 
' The Word in the Pattern.' The little book is thus dedi- 
cated to Eglantine Jebb, ' who by the gift of sympathy 
first called about her a little gathering of workers 
from her village to practise the beautiful art of wood- 
carving, and from which beginning sprang the union 
of many workers forming the association of the Home 
Arts and Industries. These few pages, endeavouring 
to explain the spirit in the work done by us at Compton 
for our chapel, are dedicated with love and gratitude.' 
The decorations outside are all in raised terracotta, 
and represent a revival of the oldest symboUsm in the 
world, and; after all, have we got much beyond ' The 
Eiver of Life,' ' The Pathway of the Sun,' and the noble 
figure of Justice, which neither judges nor condemns 
but merely holds the balance ? The village terracotta 
industry is still carried on round the gallery, and is 
called The Potters' Arts Guild, and the designs carried 
out are garden pots, sundials, birds' baths, birds' 



124 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

feeding tables, &c., &c. Last winter (1912) Mrs. 
Watts' life of her husband was published — a quite 
lovely book to my mind. The central figure is so 
noble that anything like partiality or over-flattery 
from the loving wife seems unnecessary, and to me 
who knew him fairly well is not apparent at all. He 
always represented to me all that was noblest and best 
in the arts of my generation. But how soon, as of 
old in Egypt, when ' a king arose who knew not 
Joseph,' a whole generation arises who know not 
what went just before them. To me it is absolutely 
pathetic that a book of this importance comes out, 
and all the papers for a week or a fortnight ring with 
its praises, and then comes the silence, and the young, 
at any rate, think of it no more. Watts, MiUais, 
Eossetti, Bume- Jones, Euskin are all out of fashion, 
but they are all too good to die and will rise phoenix- 
hke at some future time. The first illustration in the 
book is an astonishing portrait of Watts' father, 
painted by him when he was but a boy of eighteen, 
showing indeed the promise that was to come. When 
I put down the first volume I thought. No, I can never 
like the second so well — and I really liked it much better ! 
In this Life the nobility of the man himself comes out so 
finely, and though these two volumes are a paean of 
praise, it does not paU, and to me it does not seem one 
bit more than the man deserves, and it lifts one out of 
the rut of ordinary life on to higher planes, and, as the 
Frenchman said ; ' A la vue de I'Apollon le corps se 
redresse et prend une plus digne attitude ; au souvenir 
d'une belle vie, I'ame doit se sentir de meme relevee et 
ennoblie.' And yet one of the curious experiences 
of being old is facing, as a spectator, new generations. 



MAY 125 

and hearing from them that what you think such 
dehghtful reading they think rather tiresome, and the 
people talked about as queer and odd. I was so delighted 
with the first volume, full of all the people I remembered 
in my youth — ^the little Holland House being everything 
that seemed, in my day, most perfect and artistic that 
could be seen ; beautiful paintings, beautiful women and 
clever men, so different from any other society that I 
knew — and certainly it is no exaggeration to say that 
the mid- Victorian time was an age of ideals. A great deal 
of the story has been told before in the life of Euskin, 
by E. T. Cook. But Mrs. Watts has certainly succeeded 
in proving that Watts was no self-centred recluse, but 
a man of idealistic temperament — a type hard to find 
in the same combination in the present day. The 
third volume is devoted to Watts' writings and thoughts 
about art. No man ever worked with a more sted- 
fast aim or with higher ideals. Art was a very real 
thing to him ; is it not dreadful to think of his aspira- 
tions and then to go to the Grafton and see the Post 
Impressionists and their productions to-day, which 
seem utterly to disregard the past and to produce 
what, to our old eyes, appears the work of children or 
madmen ? Watts said : ' I haunt the footsteps of the 
great dead, those who, while they ennoble their birth- 
land, enrich the world and ennoble humanity itself. 
From my childhood I have had a longing to be of that 
band, but I dare not think it is for me.' He was 
always humble, though very stedfast to his own 
views and theories. It is sad that there is so much 
fashion in art. In aU his lectures to his pupils, Sir 
Joshua Eeynolds never once mentioned Botticelli, and 
in my youth my uncles and aunts thought me mad 



126 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

for my admiration of the pre-Eaphaelites and Euskin ; 
how few admire the former or read, or believe, in the 
latter! The third volume has some reproductions 
of, to my mind, quite exquisite drawings, and is full 
of the wisdom of an artist and a critic, and the two 
aphorisms, on page 55 of the third volume, I say cer- 
tainly take rank beside a proverb described by Lord 
John Eussell as one man's wit and all men's wisdom : 
' Study the past ; Uve in the present ; work for the 
future.' ' Let the heart dictate, the reason govern, and 
sense of proportion be chief counsellor.' The book is 
most beautifully printed and got up, and one longs 
to start at once for the gallery of Watts' work in 
Compton village, where I hope generations unborn will 
bow the knee to one who never even painted a portrait 
without striving that, besides the likeness, the mind 
and character of the man should shine through the 
outer covering in the picture. 

In most biographies, youth is the best ; but in this 
Hfe it is not so. Prom the more personal knowledge 
which Mrs. Watts' position gave her, as his wife and 
companion, she speaks personally of the life she shared. 
This third volume is composed of writings by Watts 
himself on art and life — ^pubhshed and unpubhshed. 
The first sentence in ' The Thoughts of Life ' begins 
thus, which explains a good deal : ' Though I am 
utterly unable to formulate speculations upon the place 
of man in the scheme of creation, I recognise one 
fact ; that we are here placed as it were in a mysterious 
hall, vaulted by the blue heavens, with its magnificent 
hghts and glories, and that, dwelling under this vault 
in the presence of the Creator, it behoves us to be on 
our good behaviour and to accept the position with 



MAY 



127 



some seriousness, with modesty, with kindness, with 
sympathy, and, above all, with sincerity — sincerity — 
sincerity ! not unrejoicing in the beauty around us, 
not unconscious of its wonders.' 

A few days ago a friend kindly sent me a book, 
curiously different from the foregoing, which I confess 
agitated me a great deal : first because of the seriousness 
of its revelations, and, secondly, because of the difficulty 
for gardeners and farmers to carry out the instructions. 
The name of the book is ' The Eeduction of the 
Domestic Flies,' by Edward Halford Eoss, author of 
' Eeduction of Domestic Mosquitoes and the Preven- 
tion of Fever on the Suez Canal.' (John Murray, 
3s. &d.) It is illustrated, and the magnified pictures 
of the domestic fly are terrible and make one realise all 
the harm its little body may perpetrate. The opening 
words of the introduction tell us the objects of the 
author, and I repeat what I said in my remarks on 
the article on the bluebottle ; this book ought to be 
read and studied by all householders, for, as Mr. Eoss 
says, ' When English people are convinced of the 
importance of getting rid of the domestic fly, what has 
been done with the mosquito in Cairo can be done with 
the fly in England.' He further says : ' The ravages 
caused by the common house-flies among children 
seem to be so little known, or are so commonly ignored, 
by the general public that an attempt to describe 
the knowledge which has been gained during the 
past few years, and a method of applying that know- 
ledge, is well justified. It is of the utmost importance 
that this knowledge should be spread, because flies 
can easily be reduced in numbers, and the diseases 
conveyed by them may thus be prevented to some 



128 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

considerable extent. . . It has been known for years 
that the common domestic fly {Musca domestica), 
can convey typhoid fever and infantile enteritis from 
one person to another, but httle organised attempt 
seems to have been made to bring such knowledge 
to public notice or to induce the authorities concerned 
to reduce the number of these insects in localities 
where they do the most harm. This is due to ignorance, 
perhaps, or to that apathy which has been said to exist 
appertaining to all matters concerning the prevention 
of the diseases which destroy human hfe. But it 
seems more probable that this apathy is really due to 
the fact that the general public has not grasped the 
essentials which are known concerning many of these 
diseases. Probably the pubUc does not reaUse that 
several of the maladies which afflict human beings can 
be prevented, and that prevention is better than cure — 
and, indeed, is often cheaper and easier.' He con- 
tinues with a long description of all the evils produced 
by the flies, and recent research has shown that house- 
flies convey several diseases besides typhoid fever, 
cholera, and tuberculosis, namely, anthrax, ophthalmia, 
swine fever, possibly diphtheria and small-pox. But 
there is one other most important disease which there 
can be httle doubt is carried by flies — ^it is infantile 
enteritis. The disease kills thousands of children in 
the world every year ; it is prevalent here in England, 
and is a cause of considerable infantile mortahty, yet 
very little is done by the community generally to 
prevent flies, especially in towns and crowded districts. 
Fhes cannot be exterminated, but their numbers can 
be reduced very materially. ' In addition to the 
danger of house-flies, as carriers of disease from ong 



MAY 129 

person to another, these insects are a loathsome pest. 
On warm summer days, one has only to watch them 
swarming round the dusthin, or to see them attracted 
by any garbage, manure, or filth, and then to observe 
them feeding on our food, and bathing their filthy feet 
in the milk jug, walking about the butter, or sprawling 
in the jam, or look at them crawling on the window- 
pane, or feel them buzzing round our mouth and eyes.' 
I dare say many persons as well as myself have noticed 
the tremendous increase of infant mortality during hot 
weather, but I never knew till I read this book that the 
warmth was only indirectly the cause of the death of 
these children. Warmth is good for babies ; flies and 
dirty surroundings are solely responsible. I write 
you all this that you may spread the knowledge of the 
danger of flies in your neighbourhood and induce 
people to get the book. Now we come to the point 
that really concerns you and me, of how in an ordinary 
well-cared-for house and garden we are to secure the 
greatest reduction in the number of flies. In Mr. 
Boss's book, in the chapter ' How to reduce flies,' 
he makes two suggestions ; first, if the fly larvae are 
already in the manure, the only remedy is to separate 
the manure and pour a little parafSn over the larvse. 
He asserts that doing this means no harm to the 
properties of the manure, but, later, he says that when 
the manure is utihsed for agricultural purposes every 
care must be taken that such manure is not treated 
with petroleum or slaked lime. The larvaa take 
about nine or ten days to mature, therefore he suggests 
that, once a week, the manure should be disposed of 
by putting it on the land or digging it in. ' When this 
is not possible,' as it never would be in gardens and 



130 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

fields in summer, ' covering it up with a thin layer 
of earth or sand would prevent the flies getting to it 
to lay their eggs.' One of my most cherished posses- 
sions is, as you know, my manure heap ; what should 
I do without it in this light, sandy soil ? It has a brick 
waU round three sides, and a sloping concrete bottom 
to keep it moist ; manure from stables, cow-house, 
pig-sty, and poultry house is added to it continually ; 
this increases its value ; if it had earth spread over it 
once a week it would dry it up and it would become 
a mountain. When I mulch my roses in the spring, 
I have noticed the birds leave the manure entirely 
alone for several days ; when it dries on the top they 
then scratch it violently about. Is it possible that 
with the wonderful balance of Nature the birds eat 
the fly grubs that have been hatched in the warm sun ? 
It is, no doubt, especially in towns and villages that 
it is so necessary continually to remove all refuse and 
constantly to remember that flies mean dirt somewhere. 
There is a little pamphlet published by order of the 
Trustees of the British Museum, which tells much the 
same story, ' The House-fly as a Danger to Health,' 
by Ernest E. Austen, price Id., which will meet 
the case of those who do not buy books. TiU this 
year I never really understood that the house-fly 
never lays its eggs in window corners, furniture, &c., 
it must have real filth to lay in. The female house-fly 
lays from 120 to 150 eggs at one time, and may deposit 
five or six such batches of eggs during its life. All 
this shows how important it is to cover up all food with 
paper or fine muslin, especially milk and butter, during 
the months when the flies are about. 

We had a delightful day yesterday — I say ' we ' 



MAY 131 

because you know how I hate long drives alone in the 
car. Though the wind was north-east, it was one of 
those rare Bnghsh spring days with a sUght haze, 
when everything looks its very best. We started at 
11.30 A.M., and went first to see the garden of a real 
artist, where Nature is encouraged in all her forms and 
good wild-flowers are in their right places, though there 
were many of the choicest garden kinds as well. I and 
my companion absolutely gasped at the beauty of the 
whole scene : how I wish you had been with me ! The 
garden is unique, and of its kind perhaps more artistic 
and full of individuality than I have ever seen before. 
In the midst of the wildness there were small patches 
of carefully-tended beds for rarer plants, the only 
reaUy formal design being a very small rose-garden. 
The four small beds, each planted with one kind of rose, 
were edged with old bricks placed sideways, the beds 
were divided by narrow cinder-paths made beautiful 
by being quite covered with moss. In the middle was 
a shallow tank, surrounded by bricks in the form of a 
weU-head ; the bricks were placed roughly to form a 
circle, the spaces between filled with earth and planted 
with tiny rock plants ; in the tank was one small 
growing-water lily in a sunk basket. Wherever the 
uneveimess of the ground admitted of it there were 
rough steps, some of stone and some of old brick, 
with every now and then an informal group of well- 
shaped vases and jugs, reminding me very much of 
the arrangements one sees in the small rough gardens 
which surround the peasants' houses in Italy. Beyond 
was an orchard, which was a dream of beauty from 
the wild cow-parsley ramping through the grass and 
hiding under the old apple-trees the rather unsightly 



132 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

dying leaves of the daffodils. The owner told us that 
he plants his bulbs in groups of one kind, which is 
more according to Nature than when a mixture is 
dotted about, with a sufiSicient variety from early to 
late: the beauty is thus maintained for quite two 
months. The rambling roses of all kinds, planted in 
groups, were allowed to grow, very little pruned, at their 
own wild will. It is the kind of garden that no one 
can expect to have without personal knowledge and 
taste, even the lady gardeners of the present day are 
only trained to the cultivation of plants and formality 
and absence of weeds. Only damp situations can 
produce satisfactorily a garden of this kind. I rather 
rudely remarked this to the owner, who replied cheer- 
fully ' Oh, yes, the house is damp but not the garden,' 
the house being the darlingest possible adaptation of a 
very old Surrey cottage. From this we went on to 
lunch with friends in the neighbourhood of Windsor. A 
greater contrast to what we had left cannot be imagined, 
and yet both were good gardens — ^the house large, hand- 
some, and rich, the garden well laid out, and the gardener 
of the best — every bed absolutely clean and free from 
weeds. This makes any interest from self-sown 
seedling plants, which increase readily, absolutely 
impossible ; the tulips were of the finest, but planted 
in long rows like the show beds of a nurseryman. The 
only thing we saw that was new to me was a Chinese 
plant resembling a Primula japonica ; its name is Primula 
fulverulenta, from China ; it was in a shady damp 
corner by a wood, planted in the kind of soil found in 
the bottom of a pond — a mixture of leaf -mould and clay. 
The colour was more nearly old rose than any Primula 
jafonica and the growth more luxuriant, each plant 



MAY 133 

bearing three or four flower-stems. Early in the 
afternoon, we went on to Mr. Barr's new nursery near 
Taplow station ; you remember that he used to be at 
Surbiton near here and I enormously regretted his 
departure. He taught me many things, and gave me 
many useful hints. The instruction began again 
yesterday : he said he considered one of the most 
important times for weeding was February — this I have 
never realised. We asked him what he did with his 
weeds ; he said some he burned, but that it was quite 
safe to make a heap of them to be left to rot ; if it were 
dressed with naphthaline in the proportion of a pint of 
the crystals or powder to a ton of weeds this would 
destroy both seeds and insects and render the soil 
sterile for six weeks. It is the second year of his 
possession of the fields which formerly grew corn ; it 
is very bare and wind-swept at present, hedges of 
beech have been planted, but for plants in pots there 
are artificial shelters which we much admired; The 
sides are of the canes sold for protecting frames, and 
white canvas was stretched across the top. We had 
the privilege of seeing all the plants being prepared for 
sending to London for the Chelsea Horticultural 
Show on the next Tuesday— rock plants and spring 
herbaceous plants being as much his speciality as his 
bulbs of all kinds. The late tulips covered acres — 
blazing in the sunshine. We asked him to explain 
the different characteristics of the May-flowering 
tulips and be told us that Darwins are always self- 
coloured, Bybloemens are striped, Breeders are the old 
forms of tulips and mostly brown in colour, ' Eoses ' 
are rose striped with white, and Bizarres are striped 
with yeUow. I have seen several other gardens lately — 



134 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

one never goes anywhere without learning something ; 
the eye must be on the look-out to notice any difference 
in the cultivation of plants now perfectly well known, 
and at my age a note made at once in a book. I saw 
a Choisya temata to-day trained up a high wall and 
very much pruned in ; true, the flowers were mostly 
at the top, but it made a good covering for a bare wall 
in a way that I have never seen before. I cannot get 
over a strong prejudice against round and oval beds cut 
ia grass, they belong to a period in gardening that I for 
one would like to see done away with, more entirely 
than it is ; they are usually filled with bulbs and forget- 
me-nots in spring and tender plants in the summer. 
Flowering shrubs, used as specimens, are, I think, a more 
satisfactory way of breaking up a lawn than the old 
conventional beds. A small round bed, filled with one 
kind of iris, looks well if the soil is strong enough to 
make the leaves handsome after the flower is over. At 
the sea-side, at the end of April, all the small gardens 
were filled with the dark-blue early iris, which is almost 
a wild plant in the south of France and at Aix-les-Baina. 
The nurseryman seldom sells this kind, but it is worth 
having, for it flowers early and, as a rule, profusely. 
The next easiest of cultivation is a white one, shghtly 
veined with blue, which will grow crowded up by a 
gravel or stone path in poor hot soil on which few 
other things would hve. The only iris I found when I 
came here was the pale-yellow one, which flowers at the 
end of May, and has increased and flourished here 
without any attention. If you wish to increase irises, 
they are best moved during the summer. The rarer 
kinds of these irises often get diseased ; if this occurs in 
replanting, the part that looks unhealthy should be cut 



MAY 135 

off and dry lime rubbed on it. Backhouse, of York, has a 
very large and varied collection of these German irises. 
I think no one reads FeUcia Heman's poems now, 
but I do think some of her descriptions of Nature 
affect us in the same way as Nature herself, in certain 
moods and at certain times of year. A beautiful 
spring day in beautiful surroundings is very rare, but 
there seems a picture in every line of this little poem : 

Xrom the streams and founts I have loosened the chain; 

Tiey are sweeping on to the silvery main, 

Th»y are flashing down from the mountain-brows, 

Thejr are flinging spray on the forest boughs, 

Thej are bursting fresh from their sparry caves, 

And the earth resounds with the joy of waves. 

Away from the dwellings of careworn men 
The waters are sparkling in wood and glen ; 
Away fiom the chamber and dusky hearth, 
The young leaves are dancing in breezy mirth. 
Then liglt stems thrill to the wild-wood strains 
And youth is abroad in my green domains. 

Come forth, oh ye children of gladness, come ! 

Where the violets open may be your home, 

Ye of the lose-cheek and dew-bright eye. 

And the bounding footstep, to meet me fly. 

With the lyie, and the wreath, and the joyous lay, 

Come forth in the sunshine, I may not stay. 

And thus again : 

I have passed o'er the hills of the stormy North, 

And the larch has flung all his tassels forth. 

The fisher is out on the sunny sea, 

And the reindeer bounds through the pasture free. 

And the pine has a fringe of softer green, 

And the moss looks bright where my step has been. 

Do you see in to-day's papers a young artist, Mr. 
David Cox, not yet twenty years old, has two large 



136 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

landscapes hung on the walls of the Academy ? That 
is very interesting, I shall seek them out. I wonder 
if he is a descendant of David Cox ? A friend of mine 
wrote years ago in the Spectator, speaking of how 
hard it was for the clever young to be recognised,/ 
ending with the following remarks — I think them so 
true I copy them for you : 

' There is, however, one consolation, and that of no 
shght importance, which can be held out to the un- 
popular worker who struggles hardly onward, without 
encouragement from friends and patrons, and tiat is 
that the atmosphere of friends and patrons is a deadly 
one for Art. It does seem to appear an almost universal 
truth in the history of Art that, directly it has* become 
"Laureate" in any particular case, its powers have 
begun to fail ; that you may have grand pictures from 
the cloister and the garret but hardly from the palace, 
from hands weary with care and grief but scarcely from 
tenderly-nurtured bodies and spirits sunk in luxurious 
ease. Art reverses the fable of the Pehcan, and 
requires its children to give their hfe's Wood for its 
sustenance. We do not say this is quite universally 
the case or that it is necessary for the majority of 
pictures we see around us, but only as a general rule, 
that the height of aim is found associated with but 
httle popular or pecuniary success.' 

Barrenworts {Epimedium) are plants not generally 
seen and yet they are well worth growing. They flourish 
best in half -shady damp places, and, though the flowers 
are not very showy, the true value of the plant is its 
foliage, which is attractive both in shape and colouring. 
There are many Epimediums, but the best are E. 
alpinum, E. rubrum, and E. pinnatum. 



MAY 137 

I find a great number of people suffer from sleep- 
lessness. I think this often comes from taking sleeping 
draughts either in illness or in youth, the tremendous 
rebellion there is against any pain, suffering, or 
inconvenience causing people to fly to these dangerous 
remedies. I am sure that those who take narcotics 
for any length of time are hable to fits of insomnia 
for ever afterwards. I enclose the copy of a remedy 
that I was given years ago and have found beneficial 
at those rare times when over-fatigue or worry makes 
going to sleep a difficulty even to a good sleeper like 
myself : 

SLEEP SECRET 

You are aware that you cannot look at, although 
you can see, or seem to see, two objects at one time. 

Try this before you go on. 

It is exactly the same with the eyes of the mind. 
You cannot steadily contemplate more than one 
subject of thought at once. It is impossible to con- 
template two at the same time. 

It is very true that the mind may run backwards 
and forwards so rapidly from one to another, or to a 
third, that you may think you are contemplating two 
or three together, but it is not so, and from the limita- 
tion of our faculties, it is impossible that it should. 

Now, most persons complain that one great, and 
perhaps the greatest, cause of wakefulness, is the 
disturbance of the mind by thinking. Subjects, 
either indifferent, or absolutely trifling and foolish, or 
it may be of deep interest, will force themselves upon 
the attention and fill the mind, and drive sleep, or 
rather keep sleep, away. 



138 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

To meet this difficulty, people have said to them- 
selves the alphabet, or counted the numerals, or 
thought of a running stream of water, or a flock of 
sheep passing one by one through a gap in a hedge. 

Now, the objection to these methods, and that 
which makes them almost invariably fail, is that you 
are obliged to keep the mind awake in order to pursue 
the process. For, if the mind relaxes, the process 
stops, and sleep which might have been coming on, 
is driven away. Is there, then, any similar process 
which will require no effort of mind to keep up, but 
shall, notwithstanding, be even more powerful in its 
operation the nearer you are to sleep ? 

There is — and it is this. To watch your own 
breathing. The breathing is so regular, that nothing can 
exceed it in regularity and not only this, it gets stronger 
and louder as the insensibility of sleep advances. 

If, therefore, you fix your mind on your own breath- 
ing, watching or counting it as it proceeds, you are 
contemplating a single successional subject, which you 
have no necessity to make any effort to keep up, for 
it will keep itself up ; and, by filling the mind, it will 
prevent all other subjects of thought from entering. 
. You must, however, remember not to watch your 
breathing as it rises in the successive heavings of your 
chest, but as it is in proceeding from your mouth, 
keeping your eyes, in imagination, directed down the 
two sides of your nose — for this direction and position 
of the optic axis will themselves help you to sleep. 

If you hke, you may in the beginning breathe a 
little louder than usual, just as sleeping persons do, 
for this will often help the operation. 

The oftener the plan is tried, and the more length- 



MAY 

ened the use of it, the more efficacious it is found to be. 
Eemember that it will require some effort of thought 
in the first instance to fix the mind on the breathing, 
especially if you are rather sleepy ; but that very effort 
win eventually help you to sleep. 

Another simple help is to wear a wet compress 
round one's waist; two yards of wet calico, twelve 
inches wide, covered with two yards of dry flannel 
and kept in place with two safety pins is quite a harm- 
less remedy though many fear to try it who never 
scruple to take poison in small doses ; it comes back 
to the story, old as the world, of the advice, ' Go wash 
in Jordan,' being considered too simple for belief. 

M. T. Barle. 

Notes from Bedhazel. 

May 2nd. — I see in my note-book for September that 
I marked several rock-plants suitable for planting in May 
which were in bloom in September last year at Wisley. 
Eock-gardens and other sunny places among stones at 
the edge of beds &c. are apt to look very dull in the 
autumn unless one plants special things for blooming 
at that time. One gay httle treasure belongs to that 
family of charming plants, the Polygonums, and is 
called vaccmifolium ; it is only half a foot high, with 
pink flowers; and is a quick grower. A very striking 
pink Potentilla showed up well against the rockwork, 
P- ' Miss Willmott ' — ^it flowers throughout the summer 
and on into the autumn. Antirrhinum Asarina is 
pale yellow and creeps about over stones ; the flower 
is as big as a giant snapdragon though the plant is 
of prostrate growth. The Nepeta family are puzzling, 
N. Mussini or ' cat-mint,' with its grey foliage and cloud 



140 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

of lavender flowers, is such a very different plant from 
N. Glechoma variegata, the variegated ground ivy, 
but the latter has its uses and is a good subject for 
using over stones where the long trailers can be allowed 
to hang down. 

I came home on May 10th, to find the garden very 
gay with its yellow flowers. Woad,i go seldom seen, 
planted in groups of four and five seedlings, made a 
handsome show against blue and white lupins and pale 
yellow iris. The wallflowers and forget-me-nots are 
still out, and here and there a stray tulip, but most of 
these are over, and I went round at once cutting off 
the seed-pods, a quiet Sunday sort of job. The yellow 
Alyssum, Aubrietias, and double Arabis are still out. 
All the annuals which sowed themselves in the autumn 
such as Om'phalodes Imifolia, Virginian stock, and 
lAmncmthes Douglasii, are in flower ; the last has yellow 
and white flowers and is very gay planted in big groups 
near the edge of the path. Of course, the first thing to 
do was to plant all the things I had brought home with 
me. I was too late the night I arrived, so only poured 
water on the bundles of plants and left them in the 
greenhouse. The next morning I got them all in, making 
what is called a New Zealand bucket for those which 
had fairly large roots ; this is digging a hole which you 
fill with water, placing the plant in the middle and 
gradually putting in the soil as if you were making 
mortar. For the cuttings I prepared pots with 
crocks over the drain-hole, then a piece of dead turf, 
and a few inches of coconut fibre and sharp sand, 

' The indigenous plant from which the early Britons obtained 
the blue dye with which they dyed their bodies ; still used as a dye 
in China. 



MAY 141 

damped it all well and having cut the slip crossways at 
a joint, I put them down the side of the pot, pressing 
the earth firmly against them and then set them in a 
shady place in the peach-house ; if I had had a spare 
hand-Ught they would have gone under one but these 
were needed for young ridge cucumber plants, I told 
the groom to make a heap of rubbish, weeds, &c,, and 
mix two barrow-loads of fresh stable manure with the 
straw from the rhubarb bed and some old leaf-mould 
from last year's rubbish-heap, and on the top we 
planted two ridge cucumber plants, and put a hand- 
light over each, after giving them plenty of water. 
All the half-hardy seeds, sown in the hotbed and the 
peach-house in March, are quite big and waiting 
to be put out of doors. This is quite safely done in 
Hampshire now, but farther north it would not be safe 
for ten days. Of course, they have had no heat at 
any time, so are very hardy. All the Chrysanthemum 
cuttings must be repotted — such a task; for this it is 
necessary to prepare a large amount of soil. Well-rotted 
manure I took from the frame which was made up last 
July, and as all the cuttings, Pentstemon, Calceolarias, 
Marguerite daisies, and all sorts of cistus, shrubby 
Veronicas, &c., are ready to go out, after planting 
them in fairly sheltered places, I was able to use the old 
soU for potting, mixed with loam and sharp sand. Each 
pot must have plenty of broken pieces at the bottom 
and a piece of old turf on the top and then a little 
fine earth. Before putting the plant into the pot, remove 
the old crocks without tearing the roots, put it quite in 
the middle and fill in all round with the soil already 
mixed and ram it round the edges with a pointed stick. 
Do not quite fill the pot and take off the first shoot to 



142 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

make the plant branch. Only syringe the plants the first 
day and stand them all on a brick path, a bed of clinkers, 
or boards to prevent worms getting into the pots. 

To a vegetarian who makes a success of it and is 
never ill, it seems curious that so many people seem to 
think it only natural that one should be occasionally 
in the doctor's hands. I was often asked when I first 
settled down in my new home who was my doctor ; 
I didn't want a doctor and had never thought about 
one. This has one disadvantage; as the family doctor 
is looked upon as a sort of friend in need and can be 
sent for by anyone in any emergency and usually bears 
this call on his time very patiently: Living alone one 
might feel the need still more, and this was borne in on 
me one day when my devoted cook asked me what 
she should do if some day I came home unconscious. 
Another thing that seems odd to one accustomed to 
Uve in a family is having no one to ask how to spell a 
word when in a difficulty. The idea that one can ever 
be dull while one has eyes to see and ears to hear is 
absurd, but one might be lonely if there was time ; but 
with aU the teeming interest of life around, and the 
papers daily bringing to our doors news of all the world, 
I am more inclined to be bewildered and sympathetic 
with the old man Augustus Hare tells of in one of his 
books, who was asked why he was depressed and replied : 
' Well, what with faith, and gas, and balloons, and 
steam-engines a-booming and a-frizzling through the 
world, and with the earth going round once in twenty- 
four hours, I'm fairly muzzled and stagnated.' 

12th. — To-day I planted out seedlings of stocks 
and Salpiglossis. The soil is very stiff clay, so I took a 
basket of fine soil, and, after digging the patches where 



MAY 143 

there is room between other plants with a fork — I 
sprinkled the fine earth and dug some into each hole in 
which I was going to plant the seedlings and well 
watered them all. A few of the wallflowers are over, 
and these I took up and remade the soil by mixing 
in some fresh earth from the old hotbed, and planted 
hollyhocks, everlastings (Hehchrysums), and snap- 
dragons (Antirrhinums). This sort of attention to fresh 
soil when planting the borders is very necessary and 
seldom thought of by gardeners. Snapdragons I 
planted all over the garden, sometimes in quite poor soil 
to flower early, and again in rows in beds which have 
been manured in the kitchen garden for cutting in the 
autumn. These will grow into big plants, and if left 
rather crowded will probably survive the winter. 
I planted some at the bottom of the sunk path and on 
banks ; in fact, I think you can hardly put them in the 
wrong place. A kind friend living in Cheshire has 
sent me, packed in a box of moss, a clump of Gentiana 
acaulis with plenty of soil on the roots — the only way 
to send a Gentian by post. 

On the 17th I planted some roots of tomatoes in the 
peach-house, and also two plants of frame cucumbers ; 
these will do well if the summer is hot and I give them 
plenty of water and damp the leaves daily with the 
syringe. The other work this week has been cutting 
back the vine to the shoots bearing the last bunch of 
grapes on each branch and taking off all side-shoots. All 
the Pelargonium plants I am going to put in the ground 
are in the tea-house, where there is a piece of felt to 
keep off the late frosts. I am planting out Dianthus 
to-day from seed sown last July ; they will flower this 
year and next year be at their best. At the edge of a 



144 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

path they are perfect and the flowers most useful for 
cutting. The seedling brooms, also sown in July, are just 
in perfect condition for moving — six or seven inches high. 
Everything we plant out has to be protected from slugs 
by putting a counter-attraction in the form of parsnip 
or orange-peel at the side, and the slugs collected next 
morning. It is quite safe to stand half-tender things 
out of doors under trees. 

18th. — It is curious how little effect the fact 
of having travelled has on most soldiers and sailors. 
There are many pensioners in this neighbourhood, but 
one cannot guess it from talking to them ; some men 
who have hardly left their own county are just as 
intelhgent as those who have been round the world. 
I suppose that if we did not read and inquire into the 
history of places we visit, they would make very little 
impression on us, just as passing through a country 
in a train leaves one quite cold and with no feeling of 
intimacy. The picture palaces are altering the attitude 
of mind of the untravelled, as they give a vivid im- 
pression of foreign places in a way no books could do. 
A friend of mine was once trying to describe the sea to 
a class of children who had never been away from their 
inland home, and, as she told them of storms and ship- 
wrecks,- one small boy, racking his brains to offer a 
suitable remark, at last burst out : ' Teacher, my 
brother's got a pair of bathing drawers.' 

Some people deny that dogs have consciences ; I 
would like some sceptic to be here and watch Jane 
just now. When visitors are staying in the house 
she begins before breakfast sitting in the garden 
gazing up at their bedroom, and throughout the day 
she never leaves them. Two nieces are staying with 



MAY 145 

me, and one afternoon I left them at a house at which 
we had tea to finish a game of croquet, calling the dogs, 
who ran joyfully out into the road with me, then 
suddenly Jane remembered her manners ; dropping her 
tail she gave me a despairing look, which said ' We 
can't both leave them,' and slunk back to them, and 
no calling would move her. At seven o'clock she 
brought them home, having followed them all over 
the lawn as they played. The same sort of thing is 
always happening ; to-day I tried to get her to come 
for a run, and she darted out with Archies, and they 
flew down the road, but that wretched consciousness 
of hers gave her no peace, and she began slowly to 
return to the house : I stopped and called, but, as if 
fearful of being unable to resist the temptation, she 
took to a hole in the hedge and fairly bolted back to 
her charge. 

It is such a comfort that the celeriac does not 
require a trench ; a sHght drill is good, as, hke most root 
vegetables, it grows best in moisture. The drills are six 
inches apart, and the plants eighteen inches, so they 
have plenty of room to grow and make good top 
growth so useful for soup in the winter ; it has the celery 
flavour, and saves using the bleached heads. The 
sea-kale beet did so well last year I have sown it again, 
but I am afraid it will not be so good if we have a dry 
summer. The midribs are excellent in a curry or 
boiled with white sauce, and the green cooks well — ^Hke 
spinach. I am always glad when I can put in the 
French beans ; it is such a delicious vegetable, and I 
have awful nightmares of forgetting to sow them in 
time. Those in the frame are up, and I shall put them 
out next week if it keeps warm. 



146 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

20th. — The excitement to-day has been the bees 
swarming. Can anyone, I wonder, watch the wonderful 
flight of joy, the darting backwards and forwards 
in a very abandonment of happiness that precedes 
the act of swarming, without feehng an answering 
thrUl ? The beautiful dance of excitement is sometimes 
repeated for a few days before the queen actually 
leaves the hive,"- as a sudden change in the weather, 
often unnoticed by us but felt by their keener senses, 
will prevent the exodus from taking place ; but when 
the supreme moment comes there is no mistake 
about the one thought in aU their minds — ^no longer 
do the tiny brown bodies swing to and fro in blind 
ecstasy, but with one accord, humming in loud and 
far-reaching melody, in one steady stream, the faithful 
Uttle people follow their queen, singing the low tune 
of contentment and trust. Now must the bee-master 
watch carefully and hope fervently that the swarm will 
ahght near at hand on some low branch of live wood, 
for the old tradition that a swarm taken from a rotten 
post never does well is often curiously verified. Can 
it be that a weak queen has not the right feeling for 
the difference in what is alive and what is dead 
and this lack of feeUng may show a degenerate con- 
stitution and lack of vital force and energy ? After 
the swarm is safely shaken into the straw skip, rubbed 
with honey, there is stiU the anxiety as to whether, 
in transferring the swarm to the permanent hive, the 
queen may not be lost. Waiting until the sun goes 
down, the bee-master must shake out the swarm on to 
a white cloth in front of their future home, which is 
all in order — clean, and furnished with sheets of founda- 
tion comb. Tired out with their day of excitement 



MAY 147 

and still half-intoxicated with the enormous meal of 
honey in which they indulged before quitting their old 
hive, the humble little followers creep in after their 
queen as she crawls on to the alighting board and 
through the low entrance. Thus ends their first and 
only holiday, and work must at once commence in the 
new hive. The moment any warmth of morning sun 
reaches the entrance of the hive they fly out to begin 
their work of storing food, and, above aU, feeding their 
queen. The builders are at work drawing out the 
foimdation wax and making grub cells and honey cells, 
and the queen begins at once her life-work of laying 
eggs, surrounded and tended hourly by her ladies. 
Last year the countryside was almost deserted by the 
little brown host ; they died during the winter of 1911 in 
milUons of the mysterious Isle of Wight disease brought 
on — ^by what ? Who can tell ? Every bee-keeper has his 
own theory, so I give mine, e.g. man's greed and lack 
of understanding. When we interfere with Nature she 
is always apt to round on us and make us suffer in 
some way. Is it not enough that we should take all 
the superfluous honey made by these little workers — so 
few of which live to eat what they have stored, who 
spend the short six weeks of their summer hves working 
till the velvet down on their pretty bodies gets worn 
and shabby and the Hght wings are torn and useless 
— ^without grasping with greedy hands some of the 
precious store stocked away in the living part of 
the hive and substituting sugar syrup, usually adulter- 
ated, for their natural food ? Is it any wonder they 
deteriorate and become too weak to resist disease, 
which may have come from that other artificiality, 
insecticides on fruit trees ? For what is put on to kill 

l2 



148 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

one insect is not likely to prove harmless to another, 
and if the trees are sprayed when the bloom is in bud 
there -will be enough poison left when the flower 
expands to do harm to the honey-gatherer. In 
the old days bees were given a home and then left 
alone. Colonies of them were destroyed every winter, 
and the honey taken from the hives ; all weak stocks 
died or were destroyed, no sick or weak families were 
helped through the winter, so, by the law of the survival 
of the fittest, only the strong came through ; but now the 
fact that money can be made from the honey harvest 
causes people with no love or understanding of Nature 
to rush into bee-keeping, using some of the new appli- 
ances and methods and neglecting others, upsetting 
the old order without substituting correctly the new, 
and the bees are sacrificed through ignorance and 
want of care. People have at last awakened to the 
fact that, apart from their precious honey, the bees 
are a very important factor in the growing of fruit, 
and without them to fertihse the blossom there would 
be httle or no fruit, and so the subject of the bee 
disease is being taken up, and at least the spread of 
infection will cease if it is made a notifiable disease, 
such as foot-and-mouth disease in cattle. To return to 
the hive and its inmates. If all goes well, in a few 
weeks' time the lower part of the hive will be full of 
honey and eggs and five of the grub cells occupied 
by royal grubs. When this is the case, the hive be- 
comes very hot, and the little fanners use their wings 
in vain trying to keep down the temperature, till at 
last the word goes round that a swarm is to take place. 
At first they hang round the alighting board and 
seem crowded out of the hive, and then is the time, if 



MAY 149 

you wish more honey and no increase to their colony, 
to give them more room and put on a crate of sections. 
This instantly relieves the congestion, and, killing the 
young queen grubs, the hive settles down once more to 
work; but should the swarm take place, the young 
queen, before she takes up her rule, must be mated to 
the strongest male or drone in the hive. The beautiful 
book ' The Life of the Bee,' by Maeterlinck, has 
been translated into Enghsh, but the original French 
is so much more telling that I copy his matchless 
description of what he calls the nuptial flight : 

'Autour de la reine virginale, et vivant avec elle 
dans la foule de la ruche, s'agitent des centaines 
de males exuberants, toujours ivres de miel, dont 
la seule raison d'etre est un acte d'amour. Mais 
malgre le contact incessant de deux inquietudes qui 
partout ailleurs renversent tous les obstacles, jamais 
I'union ne s'opere dans la ruche, et Ton n'a jamais 
reussi k rendre feconde une reine captive. Les amants 
qui I'entourent ignorant ce qu'elle est, tant qu'elle 
demeure au miUeu d'eux. Sans se douter qu'Us vierment 
de la quitter, qu'ils dormaient avec elle sur les memes 
rayons, qu'ils I'ont peut-etre bouscul6e dans leur sortie 
impetueuse, ils vont la demander k I'espace, aux creux les 
plus caches de I'horizon. On dirait que leurs yeux 
admirables, qui coiffent toute leur tete d'un casque 
fulgurant, ne la reconnaissent et ne la desirent que 
lorsqu'elle plane dans I'azur. Chaque jour, de onze 
heures a trois heures, quand la lumiere est dans tout 
son eclat, et surtout lorsque midi deploie jusqu'aux 
confins du ciel ses grandes ailes bleues pour attiser 
les flammes du soleil, leur horde empanaohee se 
precipite k la recherche d'epouse plus royale et plus 



150 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

inesperee qu'en aucime legende de princesse inaccessible, 
puisque vingt ou trente tribus renvironnent, accourues 
de toutes les cit6s d'alentour, pour lui faire un cortege 
de plus de dix mille pretendants, et que parmi ces mille, 
un seul sera choisi, pour un baiser unique d'une seule 
minute, qui le mariera k la mort en meme temps qu'au 
bonheur, tandis que tous les autres voleront inutiles 
autour du couple enlace, et periront bient6t sans revoir 
I'apparition prestigieuse et fatale.' 

When the winter draws near, the drones, only one 
of which has been of the sUghtest use to justify their 
existence, are turned out of the hive and left to die of 
cold and starvation. On mild days the little workers 
wake up from their state of half stupor and take Uttle 
flights for exercise and the good of their health. During 
long spells of cold weather these outings are impossible, 
and the poor insects often die in hundreds of an 
intestinal disease rather than soil their hive. How 
thankful they must be to be rid of the lazy drones, who 
have no such scruples, and keep the poor httle house- 
maids busy while they form part of the hive habitation. 

This wet spring the seeds have fared very badly. 
To-day we sowed again all the winter greens, a fresh bed 
of carrots and turnips, and, of course, spinach and lettuce 
of various kinds. The dwarf kidney beans require a 
great deal of room, as they grow into bushy little 
plants and enjoy light and air on every side. I always 
plant our Brussels sprouts as early as possible ; they 
are so welcome in early autumn. I made them dig the 
celery trenches before the weather got too hot, and 
into them we threw every sort of weed and green rubbish 
before putting in the manure. We have again sown 
early peas and also the second early sorts. I keep a 



MAY 151 

heap of rubbish in a dull corner of the kitchen garden, 
throwing on to it every kind of greenery except 
weeds with seeds, and this heap of stuff I had moved 
to a more sunny corner and two vegetable marrows 
are planted on it. I begin at once to collect again for 
next year, and in October the heap on which the 
marrows are growing will be used for potting soil. Sea- 
kale beet has the merit of doing well on heavy soil, and 
is useful in the early spring when green stuff is getting 
scarce ; we sow it in rows, and transplant some of the 
seedlings to get it evenly planted. 

I only sow a few long carrots ; the horn kinds are 
so much more tender and sweet. I topped the broad 
beans to-day, and we had such good soup made by using 
a puree of them added to stock. 

RICH 0RAV7 SOUP 
To three pints of haricot stock add one onion, one 
carrot fried in butter till brown, one stick of celery, two 
turnips. Boil all together for an hour, strain and 
warm again, but do not let it boil, 

WHITE SOUBISE SOUP 
Take two ounces butter, four good-sized onions, one 
pint of cauhflower water and one pint of milk, two large 
slices of crumb of bread. Cut up the onion, put into 
the saucepan with the butter and cook slowly till tender 
— it must not brown. Add the bread, the cauliflower 
water and half the milk, and boil slowly for an hour. 
Take it off the fire, pass it through a sieve, add the rest 
of the milk", heat again, but do not let it boil. 

BRAZIL NUT SOUP 
Pass one pound of Brazil nuts through an Ida nut- 



152 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

mill, stew them for two hours in two quarts of water 
with celery and a few onions that have been fried, then 
add one quart of boiling milk, pass through a strainer, 
season and serve with fried bread dice. 

WALNUT PIE 

Grate four ounces shelled walnuts, lay some mashed 
potatoes in a buttered pie-dish, then spread the walnuts. 
Make half-pint thickened gravy of mushroom ketchup 
and browning, pour this over the walnuts, cover with 
mashed potatoes and bake. 

BICE ALLA ROMAN A 

Boil six ounces of Patnsi. rice with a clove of garlic. 
Pry four peeled tomatoes in one ounce of butter. Add 
this to the rice with the yolk of one egg, one ounce of 
Parmesan cheese. Stir and serve with tomato sauce. 

SIMPLE OMELETTE 
Take two eggs, quarter-pint of mUk, a teaspoonful 
of chopped parsley, a little grated onion juice. Whisk 
all in a basin to mix thoroughly. Heat one ounce of 
butter in a frying-pan until very hot, then pour in 
the mixture and keep putting the knife round the 
outside to prevent the omelette adhering and to make 
the uncooked centre flow towards the rim. When 
nicely set, fold and serve on a hot dish. 

SPINACH IN BRANCH 

Take one pound of good young spring spinach, 
blanch it iu boiling water, strain off the water until it is 
dry. Lay it in a fireproof dish in small bunches, put 
a little fresh butter on the top, and place it on the fire 
until very hot, then serve. 



MAY 153 

SAVOURY YORKSHIRE PUDDING. 

Take three eggs, five tablespoonfuls of flour, one 
pint of milk, one large onion. Beat the whites of the 
eggs to a stiff froth, mix the yolks with the milk and 
flour and a little salt, lightly mix in the whites and pour 
into greased pudding tins which are hot. Bake twenty 
minutes. The pudding should not be more than three- 
eighths of an inch thick. 

RICE MILANAISE 

Boil six ounces of Patna rice in a double sauce-pan 
until tender. Fry a chopped onion brown, then add 
two peeled tomatoes and cook until soft, add this to 
the rice with the yolks of two eggs and one and a half 
ounces of Parmesan cheese. Mix together, place on 
the fire till cooked and serve with brown gravy. 

TO COOK BROCCOLI 

Put some milk on the fire and bring to a boil, melt 
a piece of butter the size of a walnut, a small dessert- 
spoonful of fine flour, stir that into the butter and let 
it cook for a minute, stirring all the time, then add the 
milk, still stirring, till it makes it the right consistency. 
Break up the broccoli or cauliflowers in very small 
pieces and boil them very sUghtly in the usual way, 
drain them, and warm them up in the sauce. 

HARICOT BEANS SAUTSS 

Insert two ounces of fresh butter in a saucepan, add 
half an onion, some parsley chopped up together. 
Add the beans already boiled, cook for ten minutes, 
sprinkle with salt and the juice of a lemon. 



JUNE 

The Manure Heap — Nightingales and Cuckoos — Nesting-Boxes — 
Two Greek Plants — A Letter from Touraine — ^An Answer — 
Two Indian Letters — ^Double Daffodils — ^Wild-Flower Shows — 
The Pigeons, the Kid, and the Dogs — Soils — The Angry Duck — 
Lilies and Chrysanthemums — Uncommon Perennials — Win- 
cheater — ^LiUes and a Gipsy's S^eral — ^Aubrietias — Planting 
Rosea — Strawberries — Vegetable Recipes. 

I AM interested and reKeved to hear your suggestion that 
hens having access to the manure heap is a safety, as 
they eat the grub of the flies and prevent them coming 
to maturity. I have ahready mentioned the behaviour 
of the birds with regard to the mulching round my 
roses ; their untidy way of scratching the manure I once 
found very irritating, now I feel nothing but relief that 
they are ridding me of some of these household pests. 
After being absent for many years, a nightingale 
built in my garden this spring, and the mate sang 
most beautifully, as if we had been far away from 
motor-cars and all other disturbances ; but nightingales 
bmld dangerously near the ground, and, alas ! when the 
birds were hatched a cat made short work of their 
young lives and made one think of the old epitaph 
on an infant, ' Since so very soon I'm done for, I wonder 
what I was begun for.' Last year I had the great 
excitement of a hedge-sparrow building a nest in my 
raspberry bushes, and a cuckoo laid its egg in it with 

1S4 



JUNE 155 

the usual result ; the poor little hedge-sparrows were 
hurried to an early grave and the nest filled with the 
gaping, hungry cuckoo. One wonders how this excep- 
tion in the general order of Nature first began, and why 
the little foster-parents are so devoted to their charge 
and feed it long after it is out of the nest and able to 
stand on a branch. All young people interested in 
natural history should take in a very weU-illustrated 
magazine, Wild Life, edited by Douglas English. 
The May number this year had a very comprehensive 
article on the cuckoo and its ways, with lovely photo- 
graphic illustrations. Mr. Taylor gives an amusing 
account of ' how some small birds harried two cuckoos, 
never giving the pair a moment's peace ; the cuckoos 
never retahated on their small assailants, but moved 
away, and the conclusion he came to was that, even if 
the cuckoo does get out of the great task of nest-building, 
incubation, and the rearing of its young, it has to pay 
dearly for the privilege : what does the cuckoo gain 
by utiUsing the nest of some other bird instead of 
adopting the more natural course of making one for 
itself ? One would think that it is a loser thereby, 
because the procedure means that it is practically 
an outcast amongst birds.' 

Nesting- boxes have been scientifically improved 
of late, and I am told the Berlepsch nesting-boxes are 
the most scientifically made and are certainly the 
most successful. They are to be obtained from the 
Eoyal Society for the Protection of Birds, 23 Queen 
Anne's Gate, S.W. ; they cost about Is. 6d. each, and 
should be put up in October. They are very ingenious 
in their construction. 

I do wish you had been with me to-day. I went to 



156 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

that beautiful garden near Dorking which I think 
you saw last year ; it is so wonderful to go from my 
own cottagey mixed flower borders, where my only 
pride is to grow the greatest variety of plants that I 
can, as long as they are healthy, to a garden planted 
entirely to gain glorious effects with many plants but 
few colours. The feature of this garden was that it 
was without orange, scarlet, or yeUow ; the scheme 
of colour included every variety of blue, grey, purple, 
pink, and crimson, roses being admitted in endless 
variety ; even the seed of Nemesia Strumosa had been 
so selected year after year by the careful gardener 
as to be only carmine or blue. The owner's greatest 
pride was that she had several plants of the finer 
blue convolvulus {Ifomoea rubro-caerulea), flowering 
on the south side of the stone balustrade. This 
flower is usually only in perfection in the morning, 
but there were stiU several blooms out at five o'clock 
to-day. It is such a lovely thing, it is well worth all 
the trouble it requires ; it must be sown in heat early 
in the year and not planted out till all fear of cold 
nights is over ; these plants had little shelters at the 
back of each one to keep away any draught. A great 
many of the paths were paved, in damp places they 
were cemented, but near the house they were put in 
more roughly to allow miniature plants to grow between 
them. Some of the best annuals for this purpose are 
the mixed Leftosifhon, Phacelia camfanularia, some of 
the annual Mesembryanthemums. Among perennials, 
one of the rarest and most beautiful was Nieremhergia 
rivularis, of which there were two fine specimens. 
This plant, like many others, does well if it has what 
it likes, namely, a heavy soil and absolute firmness of 



JUNE 157 

the ground in -which the plant grows. Thymus fur- 
furea and a little Cheddar pink Dianthus caesius also 
looked extremely well. In the borders the blue 
Pentstemon heterofhyllus was looking wonderfully- 
healthy; it has the shot blue and purple look that 
recalled the Lithos'permum purpureo-caeruleum that 
we saw gro-wing to such perfection in the pine forest 
at Eavenna. In a -wild part where the tall grass had 
just been mown, there were large beds of strong-growing, 
old-fashioned roses, a very big clump of the York and 
Lancaster with its rather flat striped red and pink 
flowers ; this is supposed to be white, hence the name. 
This part of the garden was divided from the rest of 
the garden by a hedge ten feet high and five feet thick 
of privet and hornbeam ; this forms splendid protec- 
tion, and the two shrubs grow together satisfactorily. 
Another hedge of yew, also very tall and old, was 
covered -with creeping roses and a beautiful specimen 
of the late Dutch honeysuckle, one mass of bloom, 
by the side of the garden door both kinds of the 
Japanese honeysuckle Lonicera jafonica and L. 
confusa. The only criticism I make to you is that 
a great many white foxgloves were introduced into 
the mixed border ; these, to my mind, are too nearly 
-wild flowers to be gro-wn in company with the rarer 
kinds of hardy perennials. 

How do you like this little poem picked out of 
some newspaper the other day ? Perhaps you will think 
it too sentimental ; this kind of sentiment clings to 
me though I am old. I can think of no spiritual life 
-without an approach to those I have loved and who 
have gone before, though how we are to know each 
other without our bodies I cannot imagine. 



158 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

Dost thou not know that though I seem to chide 
And give to all thy doings little heed, 
My heart cries out to thee in bitter need, 
And feels no gladness only at thy side 
Dost thou not know ? 

Dost thou not know that when thou art away 
The world to me is but a desert place ; 
But Heaven seems opened for a little space. 
When near my path thy passing footsteps stray ? 
Dost thou not know ? 

Dost thou not know that in a realm divine. 
Where angels in triumphant chorus sing 
Their song will hardly be a perfect thing 
Until I hear their voices blend with thine ! 
Dost thou not know ? 

Here is one of Stevenson's little prayers, remarkable 
in its way like everything he writes, but I think he 
has a tendency to exaggerate cheerfulness ; to be 
falsely cheerful when you are really sad seems to me 
as untrue as to be gloomy when all goes well : to me 
truthfulness, even in external demeanour, is desirable : 

At Morning 

The day returns and brings us the petty round 
of irritating concerns and duties. Help us to play the 
man, help us to perform them with laughter and kind 
faces, let cheerfulness abound with industry. Give us 
to go blithely on our business all this day, bring us to 
our resting beds weary and content and undishonoured, 
and grant us in the end the gift of sleep. 

E. L. Stevenson. 

A friend has kiadly brought me from the South of 
Prance two plants which, I fear, will not prove hardy, 
but interesting, as both are named by Dioscorides — one 
Ethium, the old Greek name, and the other Teucrium 



JUNE 159 

fruticosum, also the name used by Dioscorides, probably 
from Teucer, King of Troy, who is said to have first 
raised the plant medicinally. I must take cuttings, and 
trust to a sheltered situation and some protection from 
straw or bracken. The same friend writes : 

' Now I have come to the real object of my letter, 
for I think it will interest you. 

' All this part of Touraine seems to be one vast 
quarry of fine stone, just underlying the soil. 

' With the French sense of thrift, the top soil is left 
undisturbed, and the stone from ages past has been 
quarried out from passages about from ten to twelve 
feet high, about twenty to thirty wide. 

' These are now used for mushroom culture which 
is carried out to perfection. 

' We went over one of the smaller farms, but, at the 
same time, one celebrated for its produce. 

' Like everything else in the way of cultivation, 
it is carried out to perfection, the utmost care and 
cleanliness being observed — four miles of rows. To 
begin with " Le Meulage," the arranging of the ro,ws 
is all done by hand, well-rotted stable manure procured 
from barracks being used. This is placed thus 
y\/ \ ^ -^^L^ according to shape of passage in 
cave, no corner being left untaken advantage of, the 
rows are about two feet high, the space for walking 
being about two feet between each pair of rows. 
When this has been left, for time enough for all heat 
to go out, " Le Lardage," the putting in of spawn, 
takes place ; after this is completed " Le Gobetage," 
or covering the planted rows with a fine compost of 
the stone dust mixed with a Uttle loamy soil, so 
that the appearance of the rows is quite white — sand 



i6o POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

colour. Then comes " Le Tapotage," which is the 
patting into shape of all the rows. After this 
" L'Arrosage," the gentle watering when necessary, 
about every other day or more frequently, depending 
entirely on the temperature. 

• During this spell of hot weather the caves are most 
pleasantly cool, in spite of a furnace kept slowly going 
in one of the corners of an extra large chamber, but 
on a side slope, with a chimney of about twelve feet 
high above ground, the ground being undulating here, 
the chimney from passage to level of ground was about 
thirty feet. In from four to five weeks " La Cueillette " 
takes place, and this goes on till the season is ended, no 
knife is ever used, a man can pick 60 lbs. in an hour 
if a practised hand, after each picking " Le Sabbage " 
replaces the compost which has been shaken off or 
pushed off by the growing crop. 

' Absolute cleanhness is necessary to a most extra- 
ordinary degree ; indeed, he told me that only men were 
employed, as some women had the faculty of spoiling 
the whole crop out at the time of their being there, 
just as, he added, some women are unable to make a 
Mayonnaise sauce. I thought of the greater number of 
so-called English " cooks." 

' Of course it is not the same mushroom as our field 
mushroom, but one which seems to throw out far more 
heads — two varieties, white and brown, the colour, I 
believe, applyiag to the outside. 

' From here they go to Paris in enormous quantities 
to be preserved, the growers doing nothing beyond the 
cultivation. 

' The manure is most carefully prepared, being all 
laid out and packed on enormous prepared places 



JUNE i6i 

like gravel tennis-courts, watered and raked and 
temperature taken till the desired stage is reached. 
There are, in addition to quarry caves, some vast 
passages used by monks from one monastery to another, 
ten miles or more in length ; however, only the ends 
of these particular passages are used, the greater part 
having fallen in. The monasteries are now half in 
dilapidated ruins and used as farms. If only the 
English could understand the gain from taking pains. 

' The caves, however, are so absolutely dry naturally 
that it makes things much easier. 

' Another experience I had which I should never 
have believed, had I not heard, and that was, the song 
of the toads ; " Crapaud " is a toad according to the 
dictionary, and certainly where I went to Usten to them 
was more a toady placie than froggy, for it was in one of 
the corners of the village where the garden walls were 
full of gaps in the stones and the usual wall plants were 
growing strongly. 

' It was just hke a carillon of very sweet and soft 
reed pipes, each toad apparently having a different 
timbre of voice. 

' Were it heard in Ireland it would, I am sure, at 
once be put down to " the Kttle people." 

' It is not in the least to be confused with the croak 
of the frog, and does not sound as if it were produced 
in the same way. 

' Last night as I lay awake with my windows wide 
open I could distinctly hear three or four, but at this 
corner where we went to hear them there must have 
been more than twenty.' 

Here is a little love poem written by my old friend 
Harry Quilter before I knew him, and which was given 



i62 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

me by his sister after his death, and I think it so pretty 
it is a pity it should be qiiite lost : 

AN ANSWER 

You ask how much I love you, 

Ask the waves upon the shore, 
Or the wind that sweeps above you. 

With its hollow ceaseless roar. 

Ask the million birds that twitter, 

Amidst the forest leaves ; 
And question the sunbeams' glitter 

As it sweeps o'er golden sheaves. 

Ask the snowflakes as they quiver 

Above earth's patient breast, 
Or the stream that dashes ever 

Adown the mountain's crest. 

For pure as the snow new driven. 
And bright as the skylark's song. 

And free as the waves when riven 
As the tempest sweeps along. 

Glorious as sunbeams ever 

FaUing from Heaven above. 
And strong as the wind or river 

Is the torrent of my love. 

I send you two letters from my friend Mrs. Hodgkin- 
son, now Mrs. Beck, travelling in India, which are 
remarkably vivid and well-written descriptions of what 
she saw ; please return them. She has given me 
leave to publish them here. I select the parts that 
seem to me of general interest. 

' March 13, 1913. 

' We are in Ceylon — and such an Earthly Paradise 
can never be imagined until one has seen it. But first 
let me say how glad I am to hear you are well. Every 



JUNE 163 

day I am more convinced how much we owe to diet, 
and I follow all Haig's researches with the utmost 
interest, for I think his observations are wonderful, 
and that future generations will be more grateful for 
them than the present one. I hope you are pleased 
with Kenneth Haig's book. I think it very good indeed, 
of its kind — ^and I hope it will be a success. 

' As for the Suffragettes — I think they are beyond 
words. I reaUy believe the leaders must be becoming 
insane. They had done good, and nothing but good, 
up to a certain point, but now — ^really, I don't know 
how to express what I feel about it. It is simply cruel 
to see a cause one cares for so lowered and vulgarised. 
And even if they succeeded — ^what a gate through 
which to enter pubho Ufe ! The end never justifies 
the means — ^it distresses me so. 

' You cannot think what a beautiful time we had in 
Burma. Coming in from the sea — ^the first thing I saw 
was the great golden Shwe Dagon Pagoda — standing 
up like a flame in the haze. I thought of Kipling 

" And see The Shwe Dagon flare easterly 
From Burma to Kamakura." 

But I did not know how marvellous a thing I was 
going to see until we drove up to the great entrance, 
through the flowering " pagoda trees " (Frangipani) 
which are massed with rosy or white flowers like 
crocuses on gnarled grey stems, and fill the air with 
heavy scents. You see two mighty winged monsters 
standing at each side of the gate — ^leogryphs — ^half 
lion, half griffin, — and between them the steps go up 
and up and up, with people selling flowers and candles 
and gold leaf for offerings, and at last between pillars 

m2 



i64 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

you reach the great circular platform from which soars 
the mighty golden pagoda with an umbrella-shaped 
ornament at the top — ^pure gold and set with gorgeous 
jewels. On each side of the platform are crowded 
golden shrines of the wildest rich designs — some of 
them overlaid with glass mosaic, and in each sits a 
passionless Buddha, with folded hands and feet, 
drowned in contemplation; I say " passionless " — ^but 
in many of these strange alabaster images it is what 
Protinus calls " a stiU passion of contact and unison." 
You feel that he is beyond the mysteries, — and I could 
no more have helped laying flowers before the great 
central Buddha than I could have closed my eyes to 
the beauty of the marvellous place. A temple 
attendant caught my hands in his and lit my candles, 
and repeated the invocation that is said aU over Asia, 
and then I laid my candles on the grille all covered 
with dripping wax from the thousands perpetually 
offered. And I laid my flowers — strange things like 
orange blossoms with a sort of halo of golden stamens 
and a poignant aromatic smeU — on the lovely heap, 
and then he marked the back of my hand with gold 
leaf, and it was done. 

' But such a wonderful place ! It is higher than St. 
Paul's, and you see nothing but gold — gold — ^yet 
subdued into beauty, with the lovely green trees 
surrounding the platform, and here and there heavily 
carved brown teak has worn through the gold, and 
there are touches of vermilion on the blue you see 
nowhere but in the East. And on the platform with 
the delicious crowd of Burmese men and women, such 
happy people — so gay and kind and merry — the women 
in their tight sUk petticoats and Uttle loose jackets, 



JUNE 165 

and flowers in their snaooth black hair coiled in a 
smooth crown on the top of the head and nearly each 
one smoking a great white cheroot. And the men 
with long hair too, in a knot at the back, and long gay 
petticoats. And the shorn monks in yellow robes 
with one brown shoulder bare as Buddha commanded. 
I saw one woman against the golden background, 
who wore a tight primrose silk petticoat — it only 
takes a yard and a quarter ! — a short coat of the same, 
golden yellow flowers over one ear, and a golden red 
Chinese umbrella. She blazed in the great sunKght. 
You can't paint things like that. But I must not go 
on describing — you will be tired. 

'Eangoon transacts half its pleasure and nearly 
all its love-making at the Shwe Dagon — which means 
the Golden Victory, and deserves its name ; the gold 
background is hke the Italian primitives. Angehco 
would have loved it. It is hke early Tuscan art 
often. 

' And then we went 700 miles up the Irrawadi 
river to Mandalay — ^ia the comfortable river steamer, 
Uke the Nile boats, but larger. That was a wonderful 
voyage. The river is sometimes three or four miles 
wide, and I shall never forget the flaming sunsets in 
the still reaches. We stopped at fascinating httle 
Burmese villages, the houses, something like Swiss 
chalets, buried in their cocoa palms and bananas, 
and the people seeming almost to hve in the river and 
to be amphibious, swimming and bathing all day. 

' We bought a lovely bit of lacquer at one — a 
Buddha story in golden red — queer little silver 
statuettes of devil dancers at another — and quite 
small places are known for their craftsmen at one art 



i66 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

or another. And Mandalay — Theebaw's palace, and 
the Queen's Monastery — all dark brown teak and gold, 
with rooms like caskets where the children sit cross- 
legged before the monks and repeat the Three Precious 
Things in a most engaging little drone. We stayed with 
friends, too. But really it is all beyond description. 

'We had a beautiful blue and white voyage to 
Colombo, passing through a school of whales spouting 
crystal jets into the sunshine, and flying fish like 
silver swallows skimming the stiU surface. And here 
we are at Kandy. 

' I really thought nothiag could be lovelier than 
Colombo with its tropic sea breaking in surf right 
up to the lawn of our hotel. But Kandy is much more 
beautiful. It is 1600 feet up the blue hiUs, and there 
is a lake, and the Buddhist Temple of the Tooth is 
just opposite, and I can only say I am awe-struck at 
the splendour of the trees and flowers ; you will laugh 
if I say I feel as if hot blood runs in them instead of 
cold virginal sap, but really I feel it. 

'The forest trees are many of them masses of 
blossom, one with flame-coloured tulips crowded all 
over it, another with flowers like branches of rose-red 
coral, another with flowers Hke pencilled pale mauve 
orchids, another, just before this window, crowded 
with rosy pink blooms, and a vaniUa creeping up it. 
And to look up into the blue sky through that almost 
seems to dye my eyes and brain with colour and hght. 

' I have ceased to count the varieties of palms, and 
the nutmeg (Morris would make a frieze of them), 
cinnamon, clove — the little rosy buds of the cloves are 
so pretty. Everything is useful here. But you will 
be weary of me, — though I think I must write again, to 



JUNE 167 

tell such a gardener as you about the world-famous 
Botanical Gardens here. 

' You should see the orchids and begonias growing 
wild.' 

' We are having a wonderful time camping 

in Kashmir. We came up here the begiiming of May 
and hope to stay until November and then to go and 
Christmas in Burma, of which we did not see half 
enough last time. But you cannot think what a 
charming country Kashmir is. There are only two 
hotels in the whole of it, and those are small ones, so 
we have got a beautiful house-boat which has every 
comfort, and she is moved about to all the lovely 
rivers and lakes and then we leave her with an outfit 
of tents and a caravan of ponies and servants, and 
just go and camp where we please, pitching our 
camp in the loveHest places, and then moving on 
again. It is a most delightful way of seeing the country, 
and one cannot see it otherwise, for there are very 
few roads, only the roughest cross-country tracks, 
and everything has to be done by riding. I have taken 
to riding astride, which is much the safest way along 
those perilous paths. At the present moment we 
are camped in a pine-wood in a mountain valley, with 
the Himalayas all round us, and a rushing malachite- 
green mountain river full of snow-trout rushing before 
the tents. The sun is hot in the daytime, and draws 
out all the scents of the pines and aromatic herbs which 
seem to abound here. I am always wishing I were 
a botanist, for the wild flowers are so lovely. Artists 
would, and do, adore this country. The capital, 
Srinagar, is one of the most picturesque things I 



i68 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

have seen in the East. All carved and balconied 
wooden houses tottering to each other across the canals 
and rivers with which it is intersected, and one can 
buy such lovely things in the strange httle shops there. 
But I must not bore you with a long letter, though 
we are having such a wonderful time that it is difficult 
to stop telling you about it. What I really want you to 
know is that you are still an example of all the gifts 
and graces that result from the diet ! You should see 
the way the English people live out here. The absolute 
madness of it in these Eastern climates strikes me 
aghast every moment of the day. Especially I pity 
the poor children, for it robs them of their best chance 
of keeping weU in the heat. If people Hved rightly 
I believe the sun would help, and not hinder, them.' 

How Uttle climate would affect people if they 
lived properly and went back to the natural foods 
of man. A fruit-eating animal as he is — though 
heaps of people still go on believing we have the 
teeth of the carnivora and utterly forget the con- 
vincing fact of our long intestines which are never 
found in any of the Carnivora. I wish your nephew 
had tried a careful vegetarian diet when he had to go 
to a hot and unhealthy climate, but nothing is so hard 
to change as the food of a nation. The letter goes on : 

' I have little time for writing letters just at present, 
for the life of camping, fishing, and riding doesn't 
leave much room for the pen. We almost hve in 
the saddle. You cannot think how wonderful this 
camping Ufe in the Himalayas is — ^the glory and 
beauty of it are quite beyond description. 

' We have been right up in the snows — ^making the 
great pilgrimage to the cave at Amarnath, where the 



JUNE 169 

devout Hindus climb up to worship Shiva — the great 
Himalayan God — under the form of a frozen spring 
which has taken the shape of the Lingam, the emblem 
worshipped throughout India. But it is up in the 
eternal snows, a terrible place to get to, and can 
indeed only be done in the end of July and during 
August. Then the ways are lost again, and the cave 
with them. But the wonder and beauty of the climb 
and our camps on the way, and the glorious mountain 
flowers ! — acres of orange wallflowers, sweet as in 
EngUsh cottage gardens, and masses of forget-me-not 
— ^not the faint, fair English azure, but the deep-glowing 
— almost burning blue, of the Virgin's robe in an old 
Flemish missal. Columbines, ranging from a faint 
misty blue to a deep-glowing purple, — beds of frail 
mauve anemone, — No, it is impossible to do more 
than catalogue them, and that is no use. But I shall 
never forget the rock-gardens in the higher mountains 
— amasses of rosy saxifrage, and a lovely white flower 
with a ruby star in its heart. 

' I have reaUsed how many of our garden flowers 
come from here. One may count hundreds that one 
sees in gardens at home. And the wild roses beggar 
description. There is a double golden one with inside 
petals of terracotta, and these lovely things in white, 
cream, yellow, and rose, throw their fragrant garlands 
over all the hedges, and right up into the tall trees, 
bowering them in beauty — as blossomed as May-trees 
in England. But the wonderfullest thing I have 
seen in that way was the other day when we went 
to see the pink lotos on the Dal lake. There were 
great beds of reeds and bulrushes, in themselves a 
dehghtful sight with their fairy spears, and among 



170 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

them stood in glorious groups the lotos — ^they stand 
high out of the water, not lying on it Uke lilies, and 
the glory of them who can tell ! the flowers are six 
or eight inches across — faint sunset pink, blooming 
into deep rose at the edges of the petals. 

' To see them among the reeds, and with their own 
sculptured leaves — ^huge shields of green standing 
beside them, and the snake-headed buds with that 
slippery half sinister look of river flowers — as if they 
belonged to some strange water-world and not to 
ours — ^was a sight that almost caught one's breath. 

' We are going to it again to-morrow — so frail and 
lovely and yet so carven against the background of 
shining water and reeds. 

'The people here eat the lotos roots. Do you 
remember the lotos-eaters in Homer ? — " But who- 
soever of them ate the honey — sweet fruit of the lotos 
was neither willing to bring me word again nor to 
depart. Nay, their desire was to remain there feeding 
on the lotos with the lotos-eaters themselves, forgetful 
of aU return " — Really that is what I feel about Kashmir. 
I have eaten the lotos, and I scarcely feel that I can 
summon up courage to leave this earthly paradise, 
though we must do it in November, for we are due 
ia Burma for Christmas. 

' Do you know that blue poppies grow here — poppies 
blue as the sky ? They could not have any sleepy 
poisonous juices with that heavenly colour, could 
they ? At least they ought not.'- 

' We are down at Srinagar again in our delightful 
new house-boat, before starting on another camping 
expedition to where the yak caravans come over 

'■ They are not poppies but Meconopsis Wallichi. 



JUNE 171 

the passes from Thibet. And I am buying such 
delightful things — embroideries, papier mach6 in the 
quaint old Persian and Bokhariot patterns, as intri- 
cately lovely as old illuminations. We drove through 
the town yesterday. How you would want to make 
pictures of it ! it is so lovely, its narrow ways begrimed 
with the dirt of ages, and its balconied houses which 
look as if sin had soaked into them, and given them a 
kind of mysterious vicious beauty horrible and yet 
lovely, most unhke anything in the West. 

' And the swarming life of the bazaar — ^the white 
turbans coming and going, and the pale pink and yellow 
Hindu turbans and the caste-marks orange and red on 
the smooth dark brows and the lobes of the ears. The 
women too — ^jingling in silver and with silver disks 
swinging over their little brown ears, and Ughting up 
their lovely faces — for indeed these Kashmir women 
are beautiful, with a stormy "almost tragic" beauty. 

' I saw two " Flowers of Dehght " painted and tired 
like Jezebel, looking out of one window, carved and 
old with the burnished grey doves about it. They 
looked like the old, old wickedness of the world, that 
yet is ever young, with their smooth black hair with gold 
and flowers in it, and pale rose veils, and gold disks 
swinging Hke lamps beside the smooth cheeks, and the 
great eyes artificially lengthened and darkened with 
soorma, and the curves of the full hps emphasised with 
vermilion. They leaned out, looking at us with 
apathy — a dull weariness that seemed as if all the old 
evil of the close city hfe had taken shape in their 
indolent bodies and heavy eyes — indolent, yet swift 
to spring with virulent hfe as a snake wakes with fierce 
darting life when its time comes, — direct inheritrixes 



172 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

from Lilith, in the fittest setting in the world — ^the close 
rich shadows of the worn-out, almost exhausted, vice of 
an Eastern city as old as time. 

' Just below them on one of the great ghauts — ^the 
broken beautiful steps that run down to the river — a 
wild crowd was collected over the body of a man 
murdered for a few rupees, and flung into the river. 
And business was going on gaUy in the stalls of the 
bazaar near by, where jewellers sell the silver bangles 
for wrists and ankles and the disks that light up fair 
foreheads and the rows and rows of coined silver that 
make their necks " like the tower of Damascus builded 
for an armoury, whereon there hang a thousand bucklers 
— the shields of mighty men." I am reminded of the 
Song of Songs here. It is all living and acting itself 
before our eyes. , j tt . 

I and most of my neighbours were very much 
puzzled by the great increase in our gardens of the 
common, rather ugly common, daffodil. I thought 
good soil and manure made them go back to the double. 
I wrote to Mr. Barr about this, and here is his answer : 

' In answer to your remark that daffodils, after a 
few years, become double there must be some mistake, 
as this is not the case, and I should be very much 
interested to see really double flowers of any of the 
hybrid daffodils. The number of double daffodils 
in existence is very few : there is the Narcissus 
Telamonius flenus, or old double daffodil ; the three 
old mconvparabilis varieties, to which we have added 
two or three new hybrid double chalice cups ; the 
double white foeticus, and the two double Jonquils. 
To state that any of the hybrid daffodils could be 



JUNE 173 

transformed into any of the above double existing 
varieties would be an impossibility, and the statement 
might just as well be made that a Primula japonica 
after a few years becomes a Primula acauUs or an 
English cowslip. I feel sure there must be some 
mistake somewhere — either the hybrid varieties have 
been lifted from the garden or dug in, and the old 
clumps of the double daffodils may have been left 
behind in some part of the garden which has not been 
disturbed.' 

This does not really explain why we all have 
quantities of double daffodils — never having bought 
or planted any. 

M. T. Eaklb. 

Notes from Bedhazel. 

June 2nd. — The wild-flower shows are on, and I have 
never seen a better collection of wild exhibits or 
so well arranged. Some of the children's rendering 
of the names is suggestive — Sorrel, a very bad weed in 
these parts, is always written Sorrow, a very appropriate 
title: The table decorations are unusually good, one 
of wild orchis and cotton-grass took a prize, and some 
of the hats were quite pretty enough to wear — a 
river reed used as ribbon with two or three poppy 
filosum to mark the rosettes, was very effective, 
and one hat almost covered with the rose acacia and its 
lovely foliage had the merit of looking fresh when 
others had faded ; Wistaria and copper-beech leaves 
also made a pretty trimming. One boy took a prize for 
a vase of garden flowers — a branch of Prunus Pissardi, 
some Erigeron speciosus, with its mauve flowers with 
orange centres, and one branch of Buddleia glohosa, 
to carry on the orange colour ; the arrangement was 



174 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

quite perfect, the balance was exceUent, almost Japanese 
in the way the straight, tall branch was reheved by a 
slant, to one side only, of the more slender growth. One 
child sent in 92 flowers correctly named — this had 
to be done in the room from memory. The queen 
wasps are rare this year after a wet winter, and only 
one child competed at one show with eight specimens. 
Last year the first prize was given to the collector of 102. 
4th. — To-day I had a sad disappointment. An 
owl got in through the big opening of the bam and 
ate the two first-born of my new pigeons. I had been 
so excited at their hatching, as having had two sister 
pigeons for two years there had been nothing but egg- 
laying, the poor things taking sad turns to stay at 
home and guard the nest of eggs", of which they each 
laid their share. I am determined this owl slaughterer 
shall not have so easy a meal again, and I am having a 
big oU-barrel made into a cot with a wide ledge round 
it for them to alight on and nest-boxes inside ; when 
the pigeons are put inside we shall throw some fish- 
netting over it to keep them indoors till they are used 
to their new home. I spent Sunday afternoon in the 
orchard with the three dogs and the nanny kid ; she 
played with the dogs for a time, then, getting bored and 
naughty, like a child she ran off just not quite out of 
sight. She likes company herself, and began to nibble 
my choice shrubs, though the orchard is full of all the 
things she Hkes, shoots of wild plum and crab-apple 
and hawthorn ; twice I fetched her back, and at last 
she found it great fun to jump on and off my knee, then, 
to my joy, she settled down and lay across my lap hke a 
big cat over half an hour. Suddenly, all the dogs began 
to bark, the big wolf-hound broke through the hedge. 



JUNE 175 

and by the time I got to the gate all the dogs were out 
of sight in a cloud of dust. This curious habit that dogs 
have in the country of chasing passing dogs that are 
strange to them is terribly infectious ; they all do it. 
When Jane first came to Hampshire with me she had 
to run the gauntlet of all the dogs belonging to the place, 
and she still suffers if I take her long runs into strange 
villages, but she pays all this back with vengeance in 
company with Ehoda and Archies, when at home. 

The question of soil is very Uttle understood and is 
yet so important, people engage a gardener and plump 
him down often under utterly different conditions from 
those under which he was trained, and he blindly 
follows his old way, which spells disaster. One way 
to learn what plants hke is to visit other gardens 
constantly with an observant eye and notice when 
plants do better with other people than with you. 
What are their conditions ? Sometimes good soil makes 
things flower, at other times it causes them to go 
entirely to leaf. The big yellow Marguerite daisy is 
hopeless in a border with me ; the only way to grow 
it is in a vase or to let it stay in a pot, and sink it up 
to the rim to prevent evaporation and save watering. 
We watched one of the gardeners watering at Wisley 
last week. Frames full of Uttle pots were watered very 
slowly so that every pot had an inch of water to slowly 
absorb, for the soil was very firmly rammed in and the 
water took some time to penetrate ; those poisonous 
sprinklings on the surface of either pot or border soil 
are more than useless, except for cuttings. Either give 
a plant as much as it can drink or leave it alone. I 
saw a garden yesterday which taught me a very sub- 
stantial lesson about the half-wild bits without which 



176 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

no garden is perfect ; it is this — ^that it is useless to 
attempt such spots in strong soils. I left a long bed 
under the fir-trees very much to itself in the way I 
have often seen done in Surrey, planting only such 
things as can look after themselves, Campanula grandis, 
Stachys lanata, primroses, Heuchera micrantha rosea, 
and bulbs of sorts, but after six months of only occa- 
sional weeding the bed is hke the rest of the field and 
quite impossible to do anything with except dig up and 
replant. I see what I must do when this takes place. 
I shall surround every plant with a thick sprinkling of 
coal-ashes between all the plants, and if this does not 
prevent the weeds it will quieten them down, and the 
ashes wiU soon mix with the soil and get covered with 
plants as they spread. The worst of a strong soil is 
the hold the deep-rooted weeds take, and instead of 
weeding being a hght occupation for feeble folk it 
becomes one of the most heavy, back-breaking toils — 
therefore, in beds that can't be constantly weeded the 
soil must be made poorer, and the wild plants and 
trees which are used can be fed a little if they seem 
to need it. Americans caU wild trees savage trees ; 
this sounds unusual to us, and reminds me of the boy 
who saw ' Canard sauvage aux petits pois ' on a 
menu and translated it ' The duck was angry at the 
few peas,' but the old English meaning of a word is 
retained sometimes by Americans when its meaning has 
been perverted by use in England. ' Cunning ' is used 
by them to mean performed by skill, nothing to do 
with deceitfulness ; in the Bible it is only used in 
connection with art, skill, and knowledge. Mrs. 
Earle saw, in the wine-list at a Paris cafe, liqueur called 
' Goutte de Malte.' It was translated for the benefit 



JUNE 177 

of English visitors as Gout of Malta. The first wish of 
the average amateur is to grow roses and lilies ; they 
make so much show, and seem the largest reward 
in Nature's garden-prize list. The term lily is very 
vague, as it used, even in garden language, to describe 
many flowers that are no more related to the true lily 
tribe than a mushroom, and those who are unlearned 
in garden lore use it quite indiscriminately. The old 
man who was working in my kitchen garden one day 
excused himself for being a long time in clearing the 
ground by saying the garden was so full of lilies ; 
for one moment I gasped, and then realised that he 
meant the big white convolvulus — ^which reminds me 
of another gardener who was told by his gentle old 
mistress to devote his sole attention to getting rid 
of that nasty weed that was choking all her flowers ; 
the next day, when asked what his work had been, he 
rephed, ' Well, mum, I was digging up that convolvulus 
as you were a blaspheming of yesterday.' To return 
to the true lilies, the easiest to grow are what are called 
the Isolirion group — it contains flowers of bright 
colouring. The commonest of this group is L. croceum 
(the Orange Lily) — it does best in partial shade ; L. 
umbellatum, of which the best are erectum and incom- 
farabile ; and the bright scarlet Sappho ; L. Thunber- 
gianum is more dwarf and is sUghtly tender. Other 
lilies in the same class are the pretty apricot-coloured 
Batemanae, the crimson orange-spotted bulhiferum, 
and the yellow Caridon. All these are hardy, but grow 
best with some undergrowth about them. The lovely 
Madonna Lily (L. candidum) belongs to the Eulirion 
group ; for years it has become liable to a fungoid 
attack, and, like the hollyhock, seems to do best and be 



178 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

freest from disease when living undisturbed in a cottage 
garden. We wrote before about the culture of this 
lily and the mistake it is to move it too late when the 
leaves have begun to grow. I bought about two 
dozen bulbs from a neighbour who had a quantity 
in a wild old garden and transplanted them one day 
in August, putting them in the day they were dug up. 
They bloomed fairly well last year, and this year they 
look quite splendid and have made handsome tufts 
of green leaves. The Martagon or Turk's Cap group 
is a large one, and they are all of comparatively easy 
culture : L. Martagon, the white form, is very lovely, 
as are also those deep-coloured L. dalmaticum and 
Catanae ; L. chalcedonicum is brilMant scarlet ; L. 
Hansoni is yellow, and grows like a weed — at Woodlands 
last year it was full of the promise of flower, but a 
late frost came and every one went blind ; in future they 
are to be protected with paper every night till all 
fear of frost is gone — ^the bulbs themselves were un- 
injured. The Panther Lily (L. Pardalinum and L. 
canadense), with crimson and orange flowers, are best 
grown in a damp place by the margin of a stream or 
other moist place. Of the Auratums Platyfhyllum 
is the easiest to grow. Taking the advice of two people 
who grow it really well in Surrey and in Hampshire, 
the following rules will be a guide : (1) Be sure that the 
bulbs you buy are from a reliable nursery, good sound 
bulbs with no disease ; (2) Prepare your bed with 
peat and have a layer of clay in a slanting direction 
behind the bulbs; (3) Dress each bulb with peat and 
cow-dung when they make their upper roots on the 
surface of the soil, and mulch them with grass-cuttings 
in June and July to keep the ground cool. If you 



JUNE 179 

want to move any of them, do it in the spring when 
the stalk is about one foot high. The Tiger Lily (L. 
tigrinum) will grow almost anywhere — ^the best-known 
varieties are Fortunei and splendens ; they flower in 
the autumn, and always remind me of Alice in the 
looking-glass having a conversation with one who 
explained that the ground was kept very hard and that 
accounted for the flowers being awake and able to 
talk. Pelargoniums will strike out of doors now, and 
I am cutting back some of the better sorts for winter 
flowering, putting the cuttings in the open ground 
with a bell-glass over them. The stiff bedding-out 
that we all suffered from years ago — and is now almost 
confined to small villas in the suburbs — almost ruined 
the culture of good pelargoniums, as only the compact 
plants with variegated leaves were tolerated in the 
artificial-looking squares and oblongs that were called 
gardens in the 'eighties. Then came the reaction when 
people turned against the tribe altogether and the 
popular name of geranium was hated; but used as large 
plants in tubs or in groups in the more formal part of 
the garden, but best of all as room plants or to flower 
in the winter in the shghtly warmed greenhouse, they 
are invaluable — ' Pink West Brighton Gem,' a salmon 
pink; 'Double Paul Crampel,' bright crimson; 
' Lucrece,' clear rose-pink ; ' Nara,' blush-white ; ' Ohve 
Carr,' pink; and, best of all, ' Enid,' a clear dark cerise, 
are all most welcome in the winter. I am repotting 
the old plants in good loam and well-rotted manure 
and sand, and shall stand them out, together with a 
few new-rooted cuttings I have bought, in a sunny place, 
removing the flower-buds as they appear ; five-inch 
pots are quite large enough if the plants are fed during 

H 2 



i8o POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

their time of blooming — they should be encouraged to 
grow with a little weak liquid manure and soot water, 
and when taken into the warmth of a cool greenhouse 
in September will soon throw up many flower-stems. 

6th. — As the days go on I try in vain to find 
time for a long, monotonous job of transplanting my 
chrysanthemums into their final pots — ten-inch they 
should be, but I have so httle room to stand them ; the 
sunny brick path that suits them is so narrow that the 
next size smaller has to sufi&ce. Last year my friend 
the market gardener, who comes in sometimes to help 
me with hints, scolded me for not ramming down the 
soil hard enough. I did it when they were transplanted, 
but in top-dressing them later with a little clay and 
manure I put it on too loose ; the plants have broken 
since they were stopped, and I have selected three 
stems, securing the middle one to a stick and taking 
off any others there may be. Pew out-of-the-way 
bulbs are more worth growing than the hardy cycla- 
men. They can be bought from most large bulb- 
growers or from the nurseries ; perhaps the cheapest 
come from Thoolen, Haarlem, Holland. In Mr. 
Eobinson's ' Flora and Sylva,' vol. i., there is an 
article describing them as ' plants of much and distinct 
beauty, mostly natives of Europe or the colder parts of 
Africa and Western Asia, most of them hardy in this 
country. . . . Some are very fragrant and of long 
duration and handsome foliage : the hardy kinds are 
of high value in the rock-garden, for planting under 
trees in the wild garden and in shady spots where few 
things will grow. In their native haunts the cyclamens 
are found on rocks, sloping banks usually under trees 
and in northern aspects ; on chalky, stony, porous 
soil out of reach of stagnant water, . . . the tubers 



JUNE i8i 

always wholly or partially above ground amongst' moss 
or herbs, and often buried in dry leaves, which prevents 
the soil from getting hard and frozen.' Plant the 
tubers when they are at rest, or from June to August 
for autumn-flowering kinds and from July to November 
for spring-flowering ones ; surround the tuber with 
sand, and take care that the top of the tuber is level 
with the ground. If the soil be dry, give a good water- 
ing and apply immediately a thick layer of sand, leaf- 
mould, coconut fibre or moss. They can be grown 
from seeds ; from fresh seed they germinate in a few 
weeks ; the seedhngs must be wintered in a frame the 
first year. G. africanum flowers in November and 
December — ^they are sweet-scented and an inch or more 
in length. C. Coum has deep-purple flowers from 
December to March. C. Ubanoticum has pink flowers 
which appear during February and March — ^it is of easy 
culture and is always effective. C. Neapolitanum 
flowers white-rose or red flowers end of August till 
October — quite hardy. C. hederaefolium is the cheapest , 
with pale pink flowers in autumn, and C. Aikmsi 
rubrum, which flowers in spring, can also be got for 
two shillings a dozen. 

Limnanthes is getting over, and has to be cleared 
away ; I leave always one small patch two feet square 
in an out-of-the-way place, and there the plants seed 
themselves unfailingly, giving enough plants to supply 
the rest of the garden even when thinned out in 
October. I am looking over the outdoor vines, tying 
up the shoots, and thinning out some of the growth 
of such strong growers as F. Coignetiae. Some of 
the plants in the little greenhouse look very leggy 
and hardly worth putting out, but to-day I dug over 
a bed of light poor soil near the, stables and planted 



i82 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

it with all the geranium and Marguerite daisies that 
were shabby ; these I shall move in July to fill up spaces 
in the front borders. 

8th. — I came home yesterday from a visit 
with many cuttings of pinks and some of the single 
sweet-scented Dianthus, and I have been out in the 
road early getting road grit from the drains cut in 
the grass which line the sides of the highway. I mixed 
this with coconut fibre and made little round beds a 
little larger than the size of my bell-glasses, and have 
put the cuttings, after removing the leaves, nearly to 
the top, and cutting them slant ways at a joint into the 
sand and watering them slightly with a fine rose. I 
put a large giant rhubarb-leaf on the top of each bell- 
glass ; these will keep off the sun for the first few days 
and gradually shrivel away as the plants take root 
and need the shade less. The cutting beds are in the 
reserve garden, which is in half-shade, as it should be- 
The cuttings must be watered every few days. We 
have begun to collect manure and leaves for the hot- 
bed in July ; it takes nearly a month to collect and turn 
and to be ready cooled down for the seeds. The 
carnation plants must be examined and all the double 
buds removed ; this disbudding is very important on 
light soUs as the plants sometimes flower themselves 
to death. My vegetable garden is next the road, with 
a low wicket-gate, and as I was sowing radish and 
thinning out lettuce this morning one of my working 
friends stayed to talk to me. One of her girls had 
just gone to service — ' The one, Miss, who was such 
a " nemic." ' Oh, these ' nemics,' they are the despair 
of anyone who is interested in country life, and one feels 
how hopeless it is for town girls to keep well if these 
living in fresh air get ill so readily, but the food in 



JUNE 183 

country and towns is much the same in these days, and 
comes from a shop, often out of a tin ; and tea is the 
universal drink from babyhood. 

14th. — I am staying in Surrey, and made a list at 
Kew to-day of things that are uncommon and easy to 
grow ; by easy, I mean given the soil and position they 
fancy. Senecio Glovarum is a handsome perennial with 
orange flowers three feet high ; Stachys grandiflora 
robusta is quite the handsomest of the little family. 
Erodium Chrysanthemum is one of those grey-leaved 
plants that look so well in a mixed border and serve to 
show up the other plants ; the flower is yellow, and is out 
in July. I am always on the look-out for flowers that are 
a good blue, and Nicamdra 'physaloides is a very attractive 
colour ; the plant is an annual, and grows to the height of 
from two to four feet ; it is the one member of its family. 
Inula grandiflora is well known, but not grown as much 
as it deserves. It is curious that, considering what 
a very sweet and universally loved scent the family 
of Thymus possesses, they should not be more used to 
cover flat places. The wild Thyme is the one that 
grows closest to the ground, but T. aureus (golden), T. 
Fraseri (silver variegated), and T. albus are aU compact, 
low-growing kinds, and the flowers are very attractive. 
Lately, new, very deep purple coloured, kinds have 
been cultivated; these are especially suited to grow 
between paving-stones. 

I suppose everyone who is happy in their home 
thinks that the surroundings are unusually attractive 
and interesting. I, for my part, take special pride and 
pleasure in being within a drive of Winchester 
and Portsmouth. I am always wilhng to visit St. 
Cross any number of times — the beautiful cathedral, 



i84 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

college, &o., the pleasure of my friends to whom it 
is new gives a zest to the expedition. The old brethren, 
who take one round the ancient hospital, vary in the 
amount of information they give one, and the little 
personal touches are interesting. I heard to-day for 
the first time that the silver cross worn on the long 
gown is put on the coffin of the dead brother but taken 
ofE before the coffin is put into the grave, and becomes 
the property of the newly elected brother ; it is laced on 
to the inside of the gown through four holes. One 
particular guide never fails to remark that the coals 
now given as an extra ' are a great deal better for the 
digestion of old men than the pancakes and mince- 
pies for Saints' Days, which were formerly the extra 
allowance.' This is not quite what one would have 
expected. The beautiful West window at the cathedral, 
which was broken to atom? by Cromwell's soldiers, 
always excites my admiration ; the pieces were collected 
and put together in a sort of pattern, but the effect is 
quite lovely. Winchester is very rich in beautiful 
windows, as some of those at St. Cross are very old and 
strikingly beautiful. The haU of the old palace where 
hangs the curious ancient ' Arthur's round table ' 
referred to by Henry VII. as ' La table ronde fabrique 
par Merlin hanging yet at Winchester,' contains also 
the bronze statue of Queen Victoria by Gilbert — ^in 
his youth the most promising genius of the sculptors 
of our time. The statue has not every advantage ; 
it was a bard case, as the work was executed with 
the idea that the statue was to be out of doors : this was 
found impossible, as the weather, after a time, was 
affecting the metal. Parliament frequently met in 
this haU, and in the wall at the east end behind the 



JUNE 185 

arras there is a small hole which allowed the King, 
seated in the room behind, to still hear what his lords 
were discussing though hidden from their sight and 
apparently out of hearing ; we wonder were they taken 
in by this stratagem ? The weather Saint, St. Swithin, 
was Bishop of Winchester from 852 to 862, and was 
originally buried by his desire in the churchyard of the 
cathedral. A chapel was afterwards built to his honour, 
and the tradition that the removal of his body to the 
golden shrine prepared for it was prevented for forty 
days by continuous rain causes the popular belief that 
if St. Swithin's Day, July 15, be wet, ' twice twenty days 
shall clouds their fleeces drain.' Wykeham's College 
had the good fortune to be spared by the army of the 
Commonwealth; it is said that two of Cromwell's 
soldiers were old Wykehamists, and they prayed that 
their beloved school should be spared. The fine tapestry 
which formerly hung in a bad light in the chapel is now 
in the dining-hall and looks far better. The cloisters 
are the most beautiful part of the college ; the barrel 
roof is of the same spider-defying, Spanish chestnut 
wood that was used for the dining-hall at St. Cross. 
On the walls and floor are memorials to late scholars 
one particular one in Latin is very quaint in its English 
version : ' Under this stone is buried Tho. Welsted, 
whom death prostrated by the blow of a stone. In this 
school he was the First, nor as we hope is he the last 
in Heaven, whither he went instead of to Oxford on 
13th day of January in the year of Our Lord 1676 of 
his age 18.' The very civil porter who shows one 
round is justly proud of the interesting relics he has 
in his keeping at the lodge, and is always willing to 
show them to anyone who shows sufficient interest. 



i86 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

A real wet day, very welcome, and I spent it in the 
peach-house tyiag in the shoots that grow so fast, 
and after a few hours' work the trees looked a beautiful 
flat fan-shape. It is perfect weather for planting out, 
but the young slugs are very active and so small they 
are hard to discover. I find the cabbage leaves 
attract them, and I throw the leaves, each with many 
tiny black slugs on them, to the chickens every evening. 
The rick is being thatched, and the poor man who is 
doing it complains that the bees are attracted by the 
smell of the hay and are troubUng him. I think they 
like the moisture on the hay, as it had been drizzhng 
a long time when he complained. Bees often suffer 
for want of water, and it is difficult to know how to 
supply them satisfactorily, as if they have even a 
shallow pan of water they are apt to get drowned. 
Theyhke best drinking from the moisture on leaves 
in showery weather. The big birds, such as missel- 
thrushes, felt the want of meat food so much in the dry 
weather when they could get no worms or slugs that 
they attacked the young of other birds and ate the 
little nestlings when they could get them. Some of 
my hlies went to a funeral to-day, after I had spent 
a most uncomfortable time of self-reproach. The 
gipsies always try me a good deal ; they are so civil and 
friendly, and yet, if once you are kind to them, they are 
never off your doorstep, and always the front door where 
you cannot fail to see them. I am so used to the way 
they beg that when the children I know best came 
to-day to the garden gate and began in the usual 
high-pitched whine, ' Please, lady, will you sell us 
some flowers ; we've a little sister lies at home, lady ; 
give us a flower,' I only laughed and told them they 



JUNE 187 

were dreadful little beggars, not understanding for 
what they wanted the flowers. When they were gone 
I realised the truth — there was a dead baby at the 
caravan, the third dead baby in three years. Of course, 
I should have known no gipsy child alive and well 
would ' lie at home.' I picked the white flowers 
and took them to the caravan, and coming back I met 
a cottage neighbour ; she told me they went to her 
with a penny to buy a bunch of flowers — she, good soul, 
gave them some while I had refused. Such a little 
thing, yet how it worried me till I had put it right — 
as right as one can put a past event. Something that 
happened to me once in London has always haunted 
me — it was in Bond Street, on a wet day — I was 
anxious to get to a friend's house at one o'clock, and 
waited impatiently for a 'bus. Suddenly I heard a 
refined contralto voice singing an uncommon song, 
and I thought at first that it came from an open 
window, then I saw to whom it belonged. A woman, 
standing a little way down Brook Street, was 
singing as if she had made herself do it and half hoped 
no one would notice her. She had a handsome face 
marred by drink or drugs, and was very, very shabby, 
but the veil and gloves were mended long past the 
stage when it is anything but a waste of time to attempt 
such a task. Two men stopped to hsten, and she 
ceased singing quite abruptly and hurried away, and 
I caught my 'bus, and all day I saw nothing else but 
the back view of that shabby figure, and hated myself 
for doing nothing, though God knows what anyone 
can do for such an one. 

23rd. — I have made up my mind to go to Ger- 
many in August to camp, and shall have to take my 



i88 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

tent and other necessaries on my bicycle. As the time 
draws near I begin to wonder how I shall get on, and 
when a chilly night comes on I say to myself, ' How 
would you like to be sleeping out of doors to-night ? ' 
I have let the house to a friend for August ; it is the 
safest month to leave the garden if there is anyone at 
home to do the watering. There is always some 
dif&oulty to overcome in gardening ; now the dryness 
has become past coping with by watering, mulching 
has to be resorted to. In planting out seedlings a big 
wet cabbage-leaf put on the soil after watering keeps 
the ground from getting baked till the httle roots have 
taken a hold. All the Aubrietias have had to be cut 
down to the roots, but I left one that was very full of 
seed to scatter it on the path ; seedlings do so well 
self-sown on gravel. 

Eampion looks so beautiful next to the real old- 
fashioned pink of the monthly rose. Some sea-kale 
I planted at the edge of the waU of the sunk path 
flowered well and was much admired ; hardly anyone 
guessed what it was. In poor soil the leaves come 
smaU and very metallic in colour. A cheap lot of 
roses I bought in April looked quite dead for some 
weeks, but they are now showing a few shoots and 
will make nice bushes soon. I think the late spring 
not a bad time to establish roses. They do not, of 
course, do much the first year, but they are well- 
rooted before the winter; but autumn-planted roses 
so often die in the early spring. I have sown wall- 
flowers, stocks, forget-me-nots, Erysimum, and fox- 
gloves. Peas and beans are coming up very badly; 
we have sown the last batch of a late kind, and a few 
rows of early quick-growing kind. Strawberries have 



JUNE 189 

enjoyed the wet winter, but some are attacked by 
slugs ; I have raised the best bunches on sticks to keep 
them from the ground. The broad beans are quite 
delicious, very small ; but this vegetable grows so fast 
and is so easy to cultivate that one need not grudge 
this extravagant way of using them. We are digging 
up new potatoes and leaving them out to dry in the sun. 
Those planted under the wall of the peach-house have 
done extremely well, and the ground is now dug and 
dwarf French beans sown. We can protect these 
from frost by sticks and bracken in the autumn. 
The artichokes are delicious, picked quite young. 
When cooked, they can be eaten hke a pear ; every bit 
but the tip is good, soft, and full of flavour. We cut 
the pereimial spinach down for the pigs ; it has made 
some nice young growth. When the weather is dry 
we have to sow two or three times before we get a crop 
of carrots and turnips. Many things have had to be 
re-sown this month, and planting out broccoU means 
putting every root in water before it is put in the 
ground and watering every night. Kidney beans we 
sowed the middle of the month, and celery is planted 
in deep trenches. Lettuce we sow every month, also 
spinach, and onions for the sake of the tiny ones 
for salad and flavouring. A sprinkling of artificial 
manure on the ground on which turnip seed is sown 
helps to keep the fly in check. E. C. 

CUCUMBER CREAM SOUP 

Prepare the cucumbers by peeling and cutting them 
up an inch long, take out the pulp and cook in salted 
water and vinegar for three minutes, drain in a strainer 
and put in a casserole with four ounces of butter. 



IQO POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

Place again on the fire and moisten with about two 
pints of white stock, add the crumbs of two rolls 
after steeping in milk. Put in two onions and season 
with salt and a pinch of sugar. Boil and stir and 
allow to simmer and skim every half-hour. Pass 
the liquor through a colander and put back on the 
fire, and when ready to serve add a teacupful or so 
of cream. 

GREEN PEA SOUP 

Boil the pods of two pints of green peas all day 
on a slow fire in vegetarian stock ; strain. Then add 
the peas, an onion and two ounces of butter, boil till 
they are soft with a bunch of mint. Pass through a 
sieve and put in a teaspoonful of spinach-juice to 
improve the colour and a half-gill of cream if liked. 

SPRING SOUP 

Cut two lettuces into small pieces and shce a 
cucumber, a few mint and tarragon leaves with chervil 
and parsley. Dissolve an ounce of butter in a saucepan, 
put in the vegetables and stir a few minutes, then add 
a pint and a half of vegetarian stock and simmer till 
tender. Remove it from the fire, add the beaten 
yolks of two eggs mixed with a gill of milk, season with 
salt and stir till it thickens. It must not boil or it 
will curdle. 

VERMICELLI CROQUETTES 

Quarter of a pound of vermicelli, quarter of a 
pound of grated cheese, three ounces of brown bread- 
crumbs, half-tablespoonful of curry powder, little 
salt, two ounces of bread-crumbs, two pints of boiling 



JUNE 191 

water. Sprinkle vermicelli into the quickly boiling 
water, stir till thick, add cheese, and brown bread- 
crumbs, cook three or four minutes ; spread on a 
flat plate to cool, shape into croquettes, brush them 
over with the white of an egg and crumb them and 
fry till a golden brown. The mixture should be 
made seven or eight hours before it is used. 

RISI PI8ELL1 
^(From The Herald of the Oolden Age) 

Pry some chopped parsley and onion till the latter 
is a light-brown colour. Have ready equal quantities 
of cooked rice and young green peas boiled separately 
(let the rice be dry and well cooked). Add these 
to the onions and parsley and stir well together in 
the pan. 

MELTED CHEESE 

Use the best EngUsh Cheddar and a tablespoonful 
of white sauce after the cheese is melted, add the 
white sauce made of one ounce of butter, one ounce 
of flour and half a gill of milk. 

PURSLANE PVME 

Wash the leaves and put in an earthenware pot on 
the fire with a very Uttle salt and no water, add a httle 
butter and mix carefully a well-beaten egg and bind 
with a httle flour. 

GELATINE CHEESE 

Put three ounces of gelatine and one pint of 
milk with a little chopped parsley and salt into a 
double saucepan with four ounces of grated cheese, 



192 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

heat until dissolved, stirring sometimes, then strain 
through a sieve, pour into egg-cups or small moulds, 
when cold turn out on to a bed of salad and serve 
with cold salad sauce. It is best made the day before 
it is wanted. 



GREEN PEA SOVFFLS 
(From The Herald of the Golden Age) 

Pass some cooked green peas through a sieve, 
add salt, a teaspoonful of sugar, very Uttle milk, the 
yolks of two or three eggs according to the quantity 
of peas. Beat the whites to a stiff froth, add to the 
mixture, and bake quickly in a souffle dish. 

BBOAD BEANS AU JUS 

Take a sufficient quantity of young beans ready 
shelled, put them on to boil in salted water; when 
nearly done drain them and put them in a stewpan 
with a bit of butter, some minced parsley. Toss 
them well in butter, add three spoonfuls of espagnole 
sauce ; let them simmer, skim off the fat, dish 
and serve. 

SAUCE ESPAONOLE 

Put one pint of stock in a stewpan with a glass 
of white wine, a bunch of parsley, a few small onions, 
a clove of garlic, two cloves, a bay leaf, an onion, a 
carrot and a parsnip cut in slices, add two dessert- 
spoonfuls of oil. Boil for two hours over a very 
gentle fire, remove the grease, and pass through a 
sieve, season with whole pepper before straining. 



JUNE 193 

SAVOURY PANCAKES 

Make some small pancakes in the usual way and 
pour over them a good cheese sauce made with half 
Parmesan and half Gruyere cheese. 

APRICOT JAM 

Wash one pound of good dried apricots, put them 
into a basin, pour three pints of cold water over them, 
let them soak aU night. Put this into a preserving pan 
and boil till tender but not in a mash, then add 
one pound of sugar and boU twenty minutes longer or 
till it sets. 

GOOSEBERRY JAM 

Take seven pounds of gooseberries, not hard but 
nearly ripe. Top and tail and cut in halves, scoop 
out the seeds with the handle of a silver spoon. Cover 
with one and a half pints of cold water and boil for 
half an hour. Strain through a sieve or cheese-cloth. 
Weigh the cut gooseberries, allow one pound of sugar 
to each pound of fruit, weigh the juice also and allow 
weight for weight in sugar. It will take three quarters 
of an hour to boil them together to a nice red colour. 
This is an old Scotch recipe and gooseberries are not 
ripe in the north till August, but in the south the 
middle of July would be the time. 



JULY 

Holiday Beading — A Hospital for Gentlewomen — God's Garden — 
Flavour and Scent in Vegetables and Flowers — Botsmy for 
Females — ^Tramping — Charlotte Bronte's Romance — ^Tea at 
the House of Commons — Gratitude or Love — Bulbs — ^The 
Ruins at Bishops Waltham — ^Banquets — Flowers and their 
Names — Flower Shows — Camels in a Country Lane — ^Taste in 
Scents — A Clever Goat — Autumn Crocuses — Vegetable 
Recipes. 

At this time of the year the papers discuss what is 
the best holiday reading. To my mind nothing is so 
good for the money as the Times ; the articles are 
first-rate and make one think, whether one agrees with 
them or not. It is full of most interesting and useful 
information, especially when there are no Parliamentary 
reports, and the page one has not time to read in the 
morning can be cut out and kept for the evening if 
one is touring. It is an example of journalism which 
stands alone, and no other country produces quite the 
same, I beheve. It must be only those who do not read it 
who caU it dull. I cannot understand how anyone can do 
without it : its faults are shared or even doubled by 
other papers ; its merits are unique. Those who have 
not time to read it daily should, at least, take in the 
Thursday number for the sake of the literary supplement. 
That is my taste ; many, of course, would prefer the other 
supplements — education, commerce, or engineering. 
The difficulty is that, except at railway stations and 



JULY 195 

early in the morning, it is impossible to buy it. I 
often tried to get it in country towns, but never 
succeeded ; it is well worth while to have it forwarded 
from home. I was interested to see the High Com- 
missioner of Australia's praise of the Press, with which 
I entirely sympathise. He said he thought • the British 
Press deserved its place in the centre of the world's 
journalism. It was often criticised for its supposed 
defects, but, taking it all in aU, there were three sincere 
convictions in regard to it at which he had arrived. 
First, the Press must live ; secondly, the more it 
thrived the better for its readers ; thirdly, the better 
for the country and for the world at large. Amazing 
advances had recently been made in popular education, 
but he felt that the best and wisest education was 
the world's Press. Was it not remarkable that there 
was not at any of the great Universities a single Chair, 
fellowship, scholarship, or prize for one of the 
greatest studies in the world — ^the study of the mind 
of man as a machine that did amazing work ? In 
this twentieth century there was going to be an 
astonishing uphfting of the people, thanks mainly to 
the Press. Some people actually dreaded the spread 
of education and knowledge ; they pointed to the out- 
bursts of industrial umest and said " a little learning 
was a dangerous thing " : so it was, but was it not 
also a most cogent reason for the more thorough 
and rapid development of the public intelligence ? 
How can much learning ever be got except through 
small begiimings ? ' I see in to-day's papers that 
Sir William Osier, in his presidential address at the 
Annual Conference of British Hospital Associations at 
Oxford, takes up a subject which I have long had at 

o2 



196 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

heart. Everything is done for the poor and nothing for 
the lower middle class, who as a rule caimot afford the 
expensive nursing home and the large fees demanded 
for private operations. A paying side to all hospitals 
would, I think, be of very great benefit to many. In 
Canada and America this seems to be common enough, 
and the Duchess of Connaught was taken to a general 
hospital in Canada during her recent illness. If 
every general hospital had a pavilion or paying ward, 
I should think they could be made to pay very well, 
but I hear doctors and surgeons object to this as de- 
priving them of their dues, but some arrangement 
might be arrived at to meet the difficulty, giving a 
chance to the younger men who would be full of zeal, 
havingto make their reputation and gain their experience. 
Medical and surgical knowledge changes so rapidly 
now, that I would rather be served by younger men 
who have done good work, but have not reached the 
top of the tree, than by the heads of the profession. 
I am glad to see that there is a large Hospital for 
Gentlewomen, 19 Lisson Grove, N.W., founded in 1850 
by Lady Canning, with the help of Miss Florence 
Nightingale, for the partially gratuitous medical and 
surgical treatment of ladies of limited means — ^the 
wives, daughters, and relatives of clergymen, naval, 
military, and professional men, governesses, artists, 
and others. It meets a very great need, felt by 
hundreds of ladies who, in serious illness, cannot afford 
the expense of a nursing home and shrink from making 
use of the wards of a free hospital. The charges, 
which include medical attendance, medicine, and 
nursing, vary from £1 5s. to £2 10s. per week. 

I have lately had given me a little volume of verse, 
' Poems ' by Dorothy Prances Gurney, published 



JULY 197 

at the offices of Country Life. I like them very much, 
my heart still beats a little quicker for poems that 
I enjoy. 

GOD'S GARDEN 

The Lord God planted a garden 

In the first white days of the world ; 

And he set there an angol warden 
In a garment of Light unfurled. 

So near to the Peace of Heaven 
The hawk might rest with the wren. 

For there in the cool of the even 
God walked with the first of men. 

And I dream that these garden closes 
With their glades and their sun-flecked sod. 

And their KKes and bowers of rosea 
Were laid by the hand of God. 

The kiss of the sun for pardon, 

The song of the birds for mirth. 
One is nearer God's Heart in a garden 

Than anywhere else on earth. 

I am much amused to hear that you have sent our 
little book, ' Gardening for the Ignorant,' into such 
high ecclesiastical circles, and, by request, which is 
more flatteriug. Many objected to the title, but, of 
course, we intended not to rub up people's susceptibihtiea 
but to arrest attention, and we hoped to help those who 
came out of large towns into what are caUed ' Garden 
Cities ' and who have small plots of ground that, with a 
little knowledge, can be made both pretty and useful. 
It is said ' Ignorance is the curse of God, knowledge 
the wiags with which we fly to Heaven,' and the more 
we know, especially with regard to anything connected 
with Nature, the more we feel our ignorance. Those born 
and bred in cities really know nothing of the growth of 
plants and hardly know an acorn from a bulb. Old as 



igS POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

I am, I go on learning every year ; it is true of gardening 
as of everything else, where progress ends decline 
invariably begins. I suppose nearly everyone knows 
now that potatoes, tobacco, Indian corn, and turkeys 
all came from America, that wonderful new world 
which gave us so much, but I only learned the other 
day that the large and useful tribe of plants called 
kidney beans, scarlet runners, white haricots, and their 
countless varieties all come from a plant growing in 
South America. The broad beans, the seeds of various 
lupins, and the Egyptian bean were the only ones known 
to Eomans and were alluded to, I believe, in Latin 
classics. I, as you know, always grow the small white 
haricot beans so much used in Prance, and when we have 
used what we want to eat fresh, before the frost comes, 
we cut the plants and tie them in bundles and hang 
them up in a shed — in this way they can be used all 
the winter. This month I always rather dread the 
inevitable flower shows, though, of course, we all believe 
they have done much good and taught many what 
excellent vegetables can be grown either on allotments 
or in small plots round cottages ; but, in my opinion, 
these yearly shows have two defects, one is that they are 
always held just at the same time of year, or nearly so, 
all over England, and the impression left is that there 
is nothing that can be grown or eaten at other times, 
and the other fault is that, as a rule, all the prizes are 
given for size ; the public and the nurserymen have 
worked together to make size the test of merit. This 
seems to me a mistake, and Nature's revenge is that 
over-cultivation destroys the scent of flowers and the 
flavour and dehcacy of vegetables. Sweet peas, in 
my youth, had smaller flowers and shorter stalks, but 
oh ! how much sweeter they were : the same is the 



JULY 199 

case with the greenhouse cyclamens, they used to have 
small flowers but their scent was delicious ; now they 
are fine effective pot plants,but as sweet-smelling flowers 
they are useless. It was thrilling to hear that you 
have come across a pot of the old kind. I hope your 
friend, who you say has the old kind, will try and save 
the seed. I quite agree that it is well to get vegetable 
seeds from the best nurserymen, but avoid those 
described in the catalogues as ' mammoth,' ' giant,' 
&c. ; this particularly appKes to Brussels sprouts and 
celery, the very small old kinds being infinitely more 
delicious to eat than the large kind now almost 
universally seen in the market or greengrocers' shops. 
It is almost impossible in small country towns to buy 
sweet and pot herbs ; they are so seldom grown in 
small gardens, which is a great mistake I think ; they 
take up very little room and are so useful. Have you 
tried the handful of hay for improving vegetarian 
stock ? This is good for people who have no garden ; 
it adds, too, very much to its nutritive properties. 
This may surprise many people, and yet it ought not to 
be so when you think that large strong animals like 
the horse, the ox, and the ass all can live healthily 
on grass — either fresh or dried. In old farm days 
the hams used to be cooked with a handful of hay in 
the pot to prevent the water being what cooks call 
hungry, which extracts the goodness from the meat. 

Some gardening books speak of the handsome 
plant with a doubtful colour, Incarvillea Delavayi, 
as being perfectly hardy; this may be the case in a 
deep, strong soil, it is not my experience here and I 
never see it in any gardens in this neighbourhood. 
About two years ago I lost all my plants, because 
covering them with a leafy mulching had been omitted 



200 . POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

in the ■winter. The summer before they flowered well 
and I saved the seed, sowing it ia a box as soon as 
ripe, and this year again nearly every seedling has 
flowered. There seems to be a stiU handsomer variety, 
I. grandiflora ; this I have never seen. Solanum 
crisfum made so much growth last year, with the wet 
summer, that I cut it back very hard in the autumn 
and it has flowered better than ever this year. I con- 
sider it an excellent wall plant, but it takes a good 
deal of room. I have lately seen a plant out of doors 
at Horsham of Physianthus aliens, sometimes called 
Arauja aliens. It is a native of Brazil and generally 
grown in greenhouses; but it is fairly safe out of doors 
south of London, in a warm corner and with a httle 
protection ia the coldest weather. It is a pretty and 
refined creeper with a medium-sized white flower. 

Solanum jasmimoides flourishes best if allowed 
to grow through jasmin or even ivy or Ampelopsis. It 
does not then get killed back as it does if unprotected. 
When planting out half-tender things is over, many 
people think one may rest and enjoy the garden, but 
there is a great deal to be done besides weeding and 
watering. Pruning all flowering shrubs is very essential 
if they are to be kept in proportion and flower well 
next year ; taking up suckers and cutting off the 
blooms of lilacs, and reducing spraying branches is 
very necessary in smaU gardens. Old, neglected plants, 
which are a thick mass of suckers and very tall, should 
be taken up — cutting them back is no use. All the 
primulas must be taken up and divided or they present 
but a poor appearance next spring. I have a good 
many plants now of that useful Cheiranthus, ' Harpur 
Crewe,' which begins to flower in February and goes 
on tiU the end of May ; it wants careful pruning back 



JULY 201 

early in June and the cuttings stuck into light soil 
under a hand-glass. 

To-day I was calling on a neighbour and saw a 
small annual which I did not know — indeed, I beUeve 
it is best grown as a biennial — called Gilia coronofifolia. 
It is a very pretty crimson. Where space is Umited, 
it is a good plan, I think, to change the annuals and 
bieimials year by year, to get variety, though, of course, 
some of them one must always have ; but in very 
light soU it is only the autumn-flowering ones that 
really do well. I do wonder more people do not grow 
yuccas where there is room ; they are beautiful 
picturesque plants, and now and then, when we have 
a fine summer, they throw up their glorious flower- 
spikes. I see that Thompson and Morgan, of Ipswich, 
catalogue the seeds of a great many varieties. Y. 
angustifolia glai^ca, he says, is very hardy and will 
thrive in the dryest and bleakest places, they are 
just the kind of plants for the sea-side. Y. 
filamentosa and Y. gloriosa are both good. I 
should think, brought on in heat, they would not 
take very long to grow into handsome plants. Of 
course, buying small plants iu pots saves time, but 
they do sometimes die, and should not be planted 
out before June. I know no more picturesque plant 
than yuccas, old and boldly planted in a group. I 
came home to-day, and just fancy how I want you or 
some other flower-loving friend ; five of the gorgeous 
white-flowering Cereus are out to-night and in full 
flower before me, with no one to admire them with 
me, but they might have chosen to come out last 
night and then even I should not have seen them. 
It is quite pathetic to know they will all be dead by 
the morning, and now, at 10.30 p.m., they are too 



202 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

splendid for words. Pruning the long creepLng 
branches of the plant, and a little weak liquid manure 
when the buds began to form, has evidently answered ; 
but I feel I really must never leave home till the 
flowering time is over, the joy of seeing the blooms 
is so shortlived. I tried picking one of the large 
buds before I went away, hoping it might flower in 
water ; not a bit of it, it opens just when it chooses, 
not a day earlier or later. I am sending three or 
four cuttings away to people who have asked for 
them. You remember this night-flowering Cactus 
is illustrated in that old book ' Picturesque Botanical 
Plates,' by Eobert John Thornton, M.D., which has 
been so often broken up to sell the coloured prints 
separately. When the plant is old and has room to 
grow, thirty or forty blooms may be espied on one 
evening. This flower is personified in Dr. Darwin's 
curious poem ' The Loves of the Plants,' and, giving 
no real description of the rare beauty of the flower, 
he winds up with the following lines : 

Sweet maid of night ! to Cynthia's sober beams 
Glows thy warm cheek, thy polish'd bosom gleams. 
In crowds around thee gaze the admiring swains 
And guard in silence the enchanted plains ; 
Drop the stiU tear, or breathe the impassion'd sigh. 
And drink inebriate rapture from thine eye. 

Perhaps it was seeing this book of Dr. Darwin's 
that made Mrs. Loudon write, in her Preface to her 
book on wild flowers that she much desired botany 
should be taught in girls' schools, but she adds the 
Linnaean system was unfit for females. Can one 
imagine anything more prudish and ridiculous ? as 
botany and on to animal life is far the best way of 
teaching children the facts of Nature. 



JULY 203 

Margarita Eadclyffe-Hall has brought out another 
little volume of very pretty poems. As you are just 
starting on your tour, I copy this one for you now. 
I wish bicycles had been invented when I was young, 
I am sure I should have loved them so. 

TRAMPING 

Oh ! it's good to be alive, man. 
Good to take the road and tramp, 

When the morning smells of meadows. 
And the lanes are cool and damp, 

And the little furry creatures 

Think the world is theirs for play. 

Sitting still to watch you coming. 
Half afraid to run away. 

There's just light enough to see by. 

Growing stronger as you go ; 
And the air is sort n' hushed-like. 

Breathing very long and low ; 

And the mountains near by Monmouth 

Seem to melt into the sky ; 
And the banks along of Ross' way 

Seem to melt into the Wye ; 

And there's not a human stirring 

To disturb the field or fen. 
Oh ! you'll never find your God, man. 

If you do not find Him then ! 

I do hope your bicycling tour in Germany will be a 
success. I can't get all the discomforts you will have 
out of my head. Write quite truthfully, making neither 
too much nor too little of everything. I found in a 
newspaper the other day the following face-wash 
which I can conscientiously recommend you to take 
with you ; it is excellent for sunburn or wind, chapping 
of hands and face, and is so simple. Take two ounces 
of rose-water, one drachm tincture of benzoin, and 
two ounces flowers of oxzoin. You can get them at 
any chemist's or store and mix them yourself. The 



204 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

ingredients are rather expensive, but a very little need 
be used at the time, and it is best put on with a piece 
of cotton-wool. I am all alone to-day, and have been 
thriUed by the letters in to-day's Times (July 29th), 
the long-lost letters of Charlotte Bronte to her master 
in Brussels. The secret was one of the most acutely- 
felt of all the literary romances of my youth, but I 
never quite believed how cruelly well M. Heger be- 
haved. I will keep the Times of to-day and to- 
morrow for you, though I know the devotion of 
women to men causes rather irritation than admiration 
with you ; with me it means all that is most beautiful 
in woman's nature to give and to ask for no return. 
The innocent sentimental friendship, which is a young 
woman's dream of happiness, is impossible to a man, 
and the good man stands aside and feels it is too sacred 
to touch, and the girl pines and does not understand, 
' so would her soul already in Heaven seem then to 
climb by tears.' Poor Charlotte's marriage and death, 
through the hope of becoming a mother, is to my 
mind quite as romantically sad as Byron's death 
at Missolonghi for an impersonal cause. It certainly 
more perfectly recalls the saying of Shelley that the 
poets ' learn in suffering what they teach in song,' 
and this is as true of the genius of Charlotte Bronte 
as it was of any author that ever Hved. The reason 
her books affected me so strongly in youth was that 
this passionate nature should have been so entirely 
restrained and controlled by her strong sense of duty. 

I had tea this afternoon at the House of Commons. 
It was too bitterly cold this 30th of July to go outside 
on the Terrace, but the place itself is always interesting 
— the buzz of this great hive where so much goes on 



JULY 205 

that we know nothing about. I brought up, of course, 
the subject of votes for women which interests us all 
so much just now, questioning rather than giving my 
views, but I got no encouragement from my four 
young M.P.s — three Liberal and one Conservative. 
They all agreed that militancy had killed all hope for 
a time. One said his constituency had been interested 
in the past in the fact that he was in favour of votes for 
women, but now they are so furious it will probably 
jeopardise his re-election — a strong temptation to a 
young and ambitious man to bury his opinions about 
women. Another admitted that there was no real 
argument against giving the vote to women except 
that men don't want it, and that, in his opinion, was a 
sufficient reason. So decided was this distinguished 
young M.P.'s opinion — ^he had one of the finest 
brows I ever saw, and bore a distinguished historical 
name. If we are to wait till every woman is for the 
vote before men will yield, it will take a very long time 
to train a sufficient number of men into giving what 
is just and taking the consequences, whether they 
like it or not. I fear we are a great distance away 
from this end. They all four utterly repudiated the 
idea that either Government would yield to force or 
bullying. It is not in the nature of EngUshmen to 
yield merely because things are unpleasant. I wonder 
if the suffragettes ever read Mazziiu. I should like 
them to read his essay on the ' Duties of Man,' in 
which that great apostle of Uberty enforces the lesson 
that duties come before rights. The consciousness 
of rights win never suffice to produce an important 
and durable progress, such rights can only exist as a 
consequence of duties fulfilled, and we must begin with 
fulfilling the last in order to achieve the first. 



2o6 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

As regards the Masefield poem you liked so much, 
pray put it into your chapter if you hke, but I think 
the love of children to their mother ought to come 
spontaneously. I never feel sure that any gratitude 
is due from children to their mother for bringing them 
into the vsrorld, and certainly I never could teach it. 
I put no value on the sentiment called gratitude, 
love is quite a different thing. I agree more poetical 
sentiment can be showered on a dead mother than on 
one who lives on and grows old. 

This pathetic letter was given me the other day. 
I knew nothing about the writer : 

The Last Will and Testament of Chaeles 

LOUNSBUEY, WHO DiBD IN BUNNING InSANE 

Asylum, in Illinois, U.S. 

' My right to live being but a life estate, is not 
at my disposal, but, these things excepted, all else in 
the world I now proceed to devise and bequeath. I 
give to good fathers and mothers in trust for their 
children all little words of praise and encouragement, 
and all endearments, and I charge the said parents 
to use them generously as the needs of the children 
require. I leave the children for the term of their 
childhood the flowers, fields, blossoms, and woods, with 
the right to play among them freely, warning them at 
the same time against thistles and thorns. I devise 
to the children the banks, the brooks, and the golden 
sands beneath the waters thereof, and the white clouds 
that float high over the giant trees, and I leave to 
the children long long days to be merry in, and the 
night and the moon and the trail of the Milky Way to 
wonder at. 

' I devise to the boys aU the idle fields, and the 



JULY 207 

pleasant waters, and the streams where one may fish, to 
have and hold the same for the period of their boyhood. 
The meadows, with the clover, blossoms, and butterflies 
thereof, the woods and their appurtenances, squirrels, 
birds, echoes, and strange noises, all the distant places 
which may be visited, together with the adventures 
there found. I give to the said boys each his own place 
by the fireside at night, with all the pictures that 
may be seen in the burning wood, to enjoy without let 
or hindrance and without any encumbrance or care. . 

' To lovers I devise their imaginary world, with 
whatever they may need, as stars, sky, red roseg by 
the waU, the bloom of the hawthorn, the sweet strains 
of music, and aught else they may desire. To young 
men I give disdain of weakness, and undaunted 
confidence in their own strength. I give them power 
to make lasting friendships, possessing companions, 
and to them exclusively I give all merry song and 
brave choruses. 

' And to those who are no longer children or youths 
or lovers I leave memory, and bequeath them the 
volumes of the poems of Burns, Shakespeare, and 
other poets, and to live over their old days again 
without tithe. 

' To the loved ones with snowy crowns I bequeath 
happiness, old age, the love and gratitude of their 
children until they fall asleep.' 

M. T. Eaelb. 

Notes from Bedhazel. 

July 3rd. — The only way to help seeds which must 

be sown in summer is to thoroughly soak the drill 

before you sow the seeds, unless there are showers, and 

cover the bed with some slight shading such as thin 



2o8 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

matting or put a few large rhubarb leaves over the wire 
protectors. I always put pea protectors over seeds 
as it keeps cats and dogs off the ground ; nothiag, of 
course, keeps off puppies or kittens, both of which are 
cruel bad gardeners but very fascinating. Who could 
be depressed with a pup in the house ? The way they 
rush up to one each morniag, with such a welcome, as 
if so reheved to find you have not died in the night and 
the happy back view and the cock of the tail as they 
walk off with one's knitting, the baU trailing behind 
and getting more hopelessly tangled every miuute. 
How hard it is to speak sternly and not laugh ! 

A friend of miae was walking along a country road 
with her dog when she met a savage-looking sheep-dog, 
and a small boy who was in charge called out, ' Is 
yours a mother dog ? because my dog never fights 
mother dogs.* 

In August the bulb catalogues arrive, but it is as 
well to think about your spring garden in July and 
have some idea in your mind what to order when the 
time comes. I have not put down a copy of my bulb 
list, as we put one in the other book and I cannot im- 
prove on it, but I have made a few additions this year. 
I have no stiff beds that need special treatment, but I 
know their needs and quite see the necessity in some 
gardens for a rather stiff-bedded arrangement in some 
formal part of the garden, near the entrance perhaps. 
All this sort of gardening is best done first of all on 
paper, and this can be done away from home, which 
is an advantage. Plans of the beds should be made, 
and if you have the measurements you can soon 
calculate the number of bulbs each will require. Such 
a plan on paper will also save unsightly labels, as you 
will have the inventory of each bed by you after they 



JULY 209 

are planted, and these can be referred to. The usual 
number of stiff beds to fill on a piece of grass is five, 
one in the middle and four round it. The centre bed 
is usually filled with wallflowers, but I think the dark 
purple Honesty and May-flowering tulips, in a light 
colour, such as ' Margaret,' a Darwin or ' Isabella,' or 
the ' Fawn,' all rose-tiated, or Vitellina, the palest 
primrose-yellow, would be more uncommon. The 
four beds can be planted with any low spring plants 
such as forget-me-nots, Silene, mauve aubrietia, and 
yellow polyanthus, double white arabis, violas, Alyssum 
saxatile (Gold Dust), or double red or white daisies. 
I think, as a rule, the bulbs to be used should be a 
lighter or darker shade of the same colour as the 
carpet; for iastance, nothing is more lovely than 
hyaciath ' Johan,' with a carpet of purple arabis or 
Silene and tulips. ' William Pitt,' and ' Bronze Queen,' 
also a breeder tulip, would show to perfection with 
a carpet of the palest lemon-yellow violas ; forget- 
me-nots must have a contrast; as the blue is dif- 
ferent from any other, I think a dark-purple hyacinth 
looks best, either ' MeneUk ' or ' L'Esperance.' White 
carpets look best with ' Emperor Narcissus ' or purple 
' Snake's-head fritillaries ' ; a carpet of double white 
daisies and Grape hyacinths, Muscari conicum, heavenly 
blue, is very effective, especially in shade. For a 
rougher part of the garden, below trees, nothing is more 
lovely in spring than blue Scilla cam-panulaia, growing 
among ferns and carpeted with the common white 
arabis. Wallflowers should be grown in masses near 
the house, all colours mixed look very beautiful. 
The flatness of the usual spring bedding is a, great dis- 
advantage, the use of such evergreen things as Iberis, 
the perennial candytuft, and the low-growing silver 



210 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

euonymus, with bulbs growing through them, wiU take 
away the stiff effect. Snowdrops grow best through a 
thick carpet, the stalks are longer and they are more 
graceful. The way I like early tulips grown is in a 
mass of every colour ; they blend so beautifully if you 
keep out the one ugly one, ' Keizer Kroon,' scarlet 
broadly edged with bright yellow. The gaudy thing is 
only surpassed by the stiU greater horror, ' Tournesol,' 
a double form of the same impossible mixture like the 
uniform of a pantomime flunkey. The crocus is one 
of the most useful of bulbs for grass banks and the 
edges of lawns, and a deep belt of them, planted as a 
border in stiff gardens, is very effective in the spring, 
but for planting in the rock-garden or in beds near a 
house only the choicer kinds should be used and those 
that flower very early in the year are naturally the 
most precious. Pulling crocus buds to bits for break- 
fast, or worst still, just for fun, is a trick of town and 
suburban sparrows ; in the country, poor little souls, 
they are often too busy searching for more stomach- 
filling food to play about with airy trifles, but twining 
cottons across sticks is not at all unsightly if done in 
moderation, and that scares them away after the first 
day. There are many kinds of crocus that are worth 
a good place, and the leaves which come after the 
flower are so small and grass-Mke that they are quite an 
inconsiderable disfigurement even when they have 
turned brown. Crocus, Tauri melanfhoriis, is a form of 
C. reticulatti^ and can be bought under that name. 
C. Fleischeri has a piu:ple colouring only a little above 
the throat ; it is very dwarf and very expensive. C. 
hifloms, white and hlac, is one of the most beautiful. 
C. chrysanthus has some yellow varieties, the cheapest 
kinds are C. aureus, yellow; C. stellaris, striped; C. 



JULY 211 

Tommasmianus, lavender ; and C. biflorus fusillus 
is white with an orange throat. Loam is the best soil 
for crocus, but they like something gritty round the 
bulbs, and like all bulbs are safer with a layer of 
coarse silver sand under them. They are best lifted 
and dried in the sun every summer, so must be dis- 
tinctly labelled. ' Glories of the Snow,' Chionodoxas, 
are seen in most gardens now, but not always under 
the best advantage. C. Luciliae is the commonest, its 
starry blue and white flowers appear in February, 
and the reddish stalks show them up to perfection. 
They are sometimes six inches long and a bunch is 
quite worth picking for the house. C. L. var. gigantea 
is quite a different colour, a pure porcelain blue, and 
should never be planted near its smaller relation. 
The flowers, as the name describes, are much larger 
but fewer in quantity. C. L. var. sardensis has deep- 
blue flowers with a white eye, is very graceful and has 
bronze foHage ; it is quite hardy and the first to 
flower. G. L. var. Tmoli is the latest to flower and 
likes a damper situation ; they may be freely used 
in grass and will sow themselves, the seedlings 
flowering the second year. 

7th. — The ruins of the Bishop's Palace, at 
Waltham, are not a show place, but to-day, having got 
permission from the owner, I took a friend to see them. 
They are the remains of an episcopal palace erected 
by Henry de Blois, the founder of the Hospital of 
St. Cross, brother to King Stephen, but it was almost 
rebuilt by William of Wykeham, who died here in 1404. 
It was a convenient halting-place for royalties and 
ecclesiastics between Winchester and the coast. It was 
one of the fifteen palaces belonging to the See of Win- 
chester. Henry II. held a great council here in 1182, 

p2 



212 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

and Eichard Cceur de Lion, returned from his German 
captivity, was entertained here after his coronation at 
Winchester. One wonders where they got the provisions, 
but, of course, they had quantities of game of all sorts 
from the surrounding forests ; fish, and probably wild 
swans from the Abbot's pond near the palace, and in 
those days the grandeur of banquets was judged more 
by the enormous quantities provided than by the 
variety of the dishes. The tastelessness of their soup 
must have been extraordinary, as very few vegetables 
were used and spices were an enormous price ; even the 
homely cabbage was not known as a vegetable in 
England till 1500 and m Scotland tiU 1650. Oliver 
Cromwell introduced turnips. Onions were known 
in very early days, but much distrusted and supposed 
' to cause fearful dreams ' and to snarre the memory 
and ' trouble the understanding ' ; carrots began to be 
used in the reign of EHzabeth. Herbs were used 
more than they are now. Peas are mentioned in the 
reign of Elizabeth as being brought from Holland, 
' fit dainties for ladies, they came so far and cost so 
dear.' Ehubarb, except as a medicine, was imknown 
till comparatively modern times. The potato, though 
brought to England by Sir Walter Ealeigh, was not 
largely grown for some years later. Sugar was 6s. 
a pound (in our money value) in 1468, but honey was 
in general use. The palace was demolished and the 
manor sold during the civil war ; restored to the Church 
after the Reformation, but for some years it has ceased 
to be Church property. The palace was, no doubt, 
partially ruined by Cromwell's soldiers, but, as usual, 
the inhabitants continued the work of destruction by 
helping themselves to anything that they needed for 
the building or decoration of their own houses. If all 
the ruins supposed to have been demohshed by the 



JULY 213 

soldiers of the Commonwealth were really their work, 
they would have had very little time or strength left 
for fighting. 

William of Wickham or ' Wykeham,' as it used to 
be spelled, was born ia 1324 at Wickham, a village in 
the Meon valley. His parents were so poor that he owed 
his good education to the liberality of the governor 
of Winchester Castle, Nicholas Uvedale, to whom he 
afterwards became secretary. In 1336 Edward III. 
appointed him. to superintend the rebuilding of 
Windsor Castle. He had the audacity to put an 
inscription on one of the towers, ' This made Wykeham.' 
His ingenious reply, when taxed by the King with taking 
the credit of the building to himself, was that the King's 
favour in giving him the work had raised him from his 
low estate. He took orders, was given a living in 
Norfolk, and rapidly rose till, in 1366, he became 
Bishop of Winchester and, in 1367, Chancellor of 
England. 

He dedicated a large portion of his income to 
improving his cathedral, in the founding of the grammar- 
school at Winchester, and of New College, Oxford, which 
he completed in 1386 — a wonderful career from a 
very humble beginning. 

9th. — The early-flowering iris are so little known 
that, when one wants to order some, the catalogues 
are most confusing as the families are large and many 
named. The Persian iris, Heldreichii, is a beautiful 
thing; it is most suitable for rockwork and flowers 
in early spring — ^lavender and blackish blue, van 
Tubergen, of Haarlem, describes it. I. persica Tauri, 
dark violet with yellow markings, is very hardy and very 
early. The better-known I. fumila has many forms, 
and varies in colour and also price ; a dry place between 
stones at the edge of a path is the sort of place they 



214 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

like. Three of my auratum lilies in pots looked so 
unwell that I turned them out to-day and found what 
I expected, woodlice among the crocks at the bottom 
of two and a slug at the root of another. I did not put 
them back but dropped them into empty spaces in the 
flower border, planting them deep and leaving the soil 
in a cup round the root to hold the water. 

10th. — I brought home some old carnation roots from 
a friend. They had flowered and it was not, of course, 
the time to move them, but I planted them carefully 
in road grit and fine soil and sht the underpart of the 
stems, covering them with more road grit; I think 
they will all do well kept moist. I have been planting 
out stock, ' Summer Cloud,' and some seedlings of 
Platycodon, which have come up very well. As all 
through the spring and summer the mixed borders 
need constant attention almost daily ; some plant goes 
out of bloom and can be cut down or taken up or 
thrown away and there should always be something 
to take its place. Apart from the annual removal 
of Chrysanthemums, Michaelmas daisies. Phloxes and 
Sedum spedabile, many things can be made use of. 
The mallows have done so well in the kitchen garden 
that I have moved a good many, even when in bud, and 
fuchsias and heliotrope in pots are useful to drop into 
empty spaces. How difficult it is to tie things up at 
the right time ! Of course every plant which grows high 
should be supplied with either a ring or thick wire, 
a foot and a half from the ground, or a circle of wire- 
netting the same height, but it is only in very favoured 
gardens that work of that sort is never neglected and 
I have been going round stalking many things that a 
week ago looked fit to resist an earthquake. Many of 
the violas have not flowered this year ; I gave some 
of them some water to-day, they looked healthy but 



JULY 215 

I think the dryness is what they dislike, as they do so 
splendidly in the Lake district, and in Scotland flower 
all through August and September. The Trofaeolum 
sfedosum is still flowering. I water it daily even after 
rain, as, being on a north wall, the rain coming so often 
from south and west never touches the roots. 

Many people are so irritated at flowers having not 
only Latin names, but a second and even third and 
fourth one added. Do these people realise, I wonder, 
that a very little knowledge of elementary Latin 
would enable them to recognise in those additional 
names a description of the flower itself which would 
often prove very useful ? Second names, which begin 
with a capital letter, are either the name of the discoverer 
of the plant or the place where it is found. It is quite 
worth while to give a little attention to this subject, 
as plants ia one family vary so much — one being of 
comparatively no value while another is a treasure — 
and to find oneself possessed of Linaria vulgaris, the 
wild toadflax, when one has tried to get L. macedonica 
spedosa is tiresome and could be avoided by realising 
that vulgaris means the wild species. Sweet-scented 
kinds of any plant are always precious and fragrans must 
never be confused with foetidissima. The following is 
a short list of some of the most usual Latin names, with 
their English translation ; the spelling often varies,especi- 
aUy the endings, as the Latin is not by any means pure : 

Albus, white. Bicolor, two-coloured. 

Arbor eus, tree-like. Coccineus, scarlet. 

Arenarius, sand-loving. Caespitosus, tufted. 

Argenteus, silvery. Calcarius, chalk-loving. 

Aeaulis, stemless. Candidus, white. 

Auratus, golden-flowered. Capensis, from the Cape. 

Baccatus, berried. Citriodorus, lemon-soenteA. 



2l6 



POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 



Caeruleus, blue. 

Cordatus, heart-shaped. 

Cordifolius, cordate-leaved. 

Crispus, curled. 

Cuspidatus, pointed-leaved. 

Delicatissimus, very- 
delicate. 

Dentatus, toothed. 

Denticulatus, small- 
toothed. 

Elegans, elegant. 

Erectus, erect. 

Fimbriatus, fringed. 

Fruticosus,, shrubby. 

Fulgens, brilliant. 

Gracilis, slender. 

Grandiflorus, large- 
flowered. 

GrandifoUus, large-leaved. 

Grandi^, great. 

Incarnatus, flesh-coloured. 

Indicus, Indian. 

Jafonicus, Japanese. 

Ladeus, milky. 

Lucidus, shining. 

Macrocarpus, large- 
fruited. 

Maculatus, spotted. 

Minor, small. 

Monanthus, one-flowered. 

Montanus, mountain- 
loving. 

Multifidus, much cut. 

Muscosus, mossy. 



Nitidus, shining. 
Nutans, nodding. 
Patens, spreading. 
Pendulus, hanging. 
Pictus, painted. 
Plumosus, feathery. 
Pratensis, meadow-loving. 
Praecox, early. 
Pseudo, false. 
Pulcher, beautiful. 
Pumilus, dwarf. 
Purpureus, purple. 
Pyramidalis, pyramid- 
shaped. 

^ ^. J- creepmg. 
Beptans J 

Bigidus, rigid. 
Bobustus, stout. 
Boseus, pink. 
Botundifolius, round- 
leaved. 
Bupestris, rock-loving. 
Saccharinus, sugar. 
Sanguineus, blood-red. 
Saxatilis, rock-loving. 
Scandens, climbing. 
Sempervirens, evergreen. 
Sinensis, Chinese. 
Speciosus, showy. 
Spectabilis, remarkable. 
Splendens, splendid. 
Stellatus, starlike. 
Variegatu^, variegated. 
Vittatus, striped. 



JULY 217 

In finding out from a long list -which species of 
a plant one needs, the description is a great help. 
Speciosa, blanda, grandiflora, spectabilis, pulchra, all 
point to rather specially good kinds, and for a plant 
to be named after a man usually means it was worth 
finding. Hybrida shows the plant has been artificially 
treated by florists and altered in character, usually 
improved but not always. 

18th. — Our local show is to-morrow and I have been 
cutting the flowers I want to send. It looks so like 
rain, and I am afraid they wfll get spoiled. I cannot 
compete with large gardens in the size of my flowers, 
but it amuses me to have things that are uncommon, 
and the more people exhibit the more interesting is the 
show, but it is a great temptation when the day comes 
not to take the trouble it involves carting up the flowers, 
and they get so blown about in an open trap. Pour 
flowers I am sending are not generally grown, Aconitum 
fyrenaicum majv^, a yellow-flowering monkshood, the 
shrubby Veronica, ' Autumn Glory,' a Salvia I have 
grown for the first time — S. bracteata rosea is very 
handsome and unusual in appearance — and my much 
prized biennial Engeron, a tall white-flowered form of 
E. mucronatus, always excites interest ; this plant is 
BO long in germinating that I thought after it was first 
given to me that I had lost it for ever as there was no 
sign of it in the garden, but the second year I found a 
great many strong seedlings. I have never seen it in 
any garden, but was given it by friends who found it 
growing in their beds. We think it must have been a 
natural sport. 

On the subject of flower-shows, I heard, when last 
at Woodlands, of a good plan for getting together a 
little money for any local charity by having a stall at 



2i8 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

the village flower-show on which are displayed various 
articles made by people in the neighbourhood. Any 
sort of contribution is included — ^from a child's pen- 
wiper to an iron plate-stand made by the village black- 
smith. This is a way of enabling those who cannot 
give money to contribute to the charity, and there is 
no expense incurred, as it is all included in the show. 
The cottage people are very generous as a rule and 
like to be asked to take their share in helping the 
hospital, orphanage, or home for cripples, whichever 
happens to be in the neighbourhood. A little advice 
as to the things most likely to sell would be necessary ; 
things made by boys and men in their spare time are 
a great addition. 

16th. — To-day I went over to see a friend who 
gave me seedlings of the tiny oxalises, 0. corniculata 
and 0. floribunda ; they grow in a gravel path or between 
the chinks of bricks and seed themselves freely when 
once established. I have been planting out Verbascums ; 
they are not much grown and yet how pretty they are ! 
I find it most convenient to plant out pereimial seedlings 
in any vacant ground near the water tubs. Candytuft 
is over, and after leaving a few of the best plants to 
go to seed I took it up and dug in some old hotbed 
stuff, making a free root run for the young plants or 
marigold and single asters, which wiU have to be 
watered with a rose daily. I also cleared the herb 
bed ; Mercury or ' Good King' Henry ' came up badly, 
so I left it, in spite of weeds, as I was afraid of destroying 
the few plants which did appear and now they have 
grown tall I am able to distinguish them and shall 
resow the empty patches. The plant is good eaten in the 
spring, and the young shoots are cut and cooked like 
asparagus. As I worked, a circus passed. Is there 



JULY 219 

anything more weird and dreamlike than a camel 
walking along a comitry road in England ? his look of 
sneering superiority is so appropriate. As the wild- 
beast cages passed I was reminded of the Punch joke 
of the showman asking a would-be assistant, ' Now, 
my lad, if a lion got loose, what steps would you 
take ? ' ' Good long ones, sir.' There was a very 
odd sound from one of the vans and my cook came to 
tell me it was the Higenia, as she just saw its hump 
over the edge of the car. I was sorry not to have seen 
this beast with its flowerlike name. 

20th. — I am still digging up annuals and filling 
their places with phloxes and other plants from the 
reserve garden. I also moved to-day some of the 
geraniums and yellow Marguerite daisies that I put in 
an out-of-the-way border in June, they have grown 
into nice plants and moved quite happily. Ants are 
the greatest nuisance and many people do not realise 
the harm they do in a garden. I was at a friend's 
house where all the pink larkspurs were dying, I 
examined the soil and found it ahve with ants ; my 
borders, which have stones at the edge, are their favourite 
haunt, and when I see a low-growing plant look sickly 
I move the stones and invariably find a nest : pouring 
boiling water on it is the only sure manner of 
destruction. These insects do not eat the plants, 
but they tunnel under the roots and pulverise the 
earth so that it falls away from the roots and the plant 
is starved. Woodlice actually eat young seedlings ; 
how curious it is that on red sandstone these insects 
are red, and if there is brick rubbish at the bottom 
of a pot they become red. The leaf-cutting bee has 
been at work on many shrubs ; the cure of planting 
yellow feverfew in^front of roses that are usually affected 



220 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

is to my mind worse than the disfigurement of the cut 
leaves, but it is curious that bees should dislike the 
smell and so avoid the bed. The subject of taste in 
scents was illustrated to-day. I asked a friend what 
use she made of the herb coriander. She said the leaves 
were delicious in salad. I was very much surprised, and 
said I hated the smell, which seemed to rather shock 
her. When I got home I looked up the use of the 
herb in Vilmorin's vegetable book, and to my joy and 
amusement this is what I found : ' Some writers say 
the leaves are used for seasoning, but this statement 
seems odd, as all the green parts of the plant exhale 
a very strong odour of the wood bug, whence the Greek 
name of the plant.' In a cottage window last spring 
I saw a plant of Freesia. The owner asked me the 
name, and, when I spoke of its beautiful scent, she 
said doubtfully, ' Well, I hke it, but when it blowed 
out last time my brother said, " Whatever have you 
got in here stinking ? " ' 

So many people like ' Pot-Pourri,' but cannot give 
the time required to make an elaborate mixture, this 
is quite a simple recipe : Equal parts of fine table salt 
and powdered borax and one tenth part of powdered 
cinnamon, mix well, and to every quart of rose leaves 
give one dessertspoonful of the mixture and mix well 
once or twice a day, adding dried scented geranium 
leaves, lemon-scented verbena, lavender, sweet-scented 
herbs, thyme, &c., adding a little more of the mixture. 

25th. — Sweet rocket has come up well and I have 
planted it in out-of-the-way places between shrubs. 
Wallflowers are best planted in poor soil and must 
be put in very firmly, about eight inches apart each 
way, just leaving room to hoe between the lines ; in 
small gardens they can be put in the flower-beds at 



JULY 221 

once, planted where the annuals have been taken up, 
watered in dry weather. The Chrysanthemums and 
all plants in pots must have a daily soaking even when 
it rains ; they are often quite dry at the roots. Chrys- 
anthemums must have weak liquid all the time they 
are growing from their last shift, that is the final potting : 
sheep or goat droppings make an excellent liquid 
manure for them. I have a friend staying with me who 
has spent a day drawing the house. She had to sit on 
the other side of the high road and a cold wind was 
blowing : Jane hates a wind but her own feelings never 
stand in the way of her maimers, so all day long she 
sat by the camp-stool getting what shelter she could, 
and though I passed with another friend, and called 
her most persuasively, she continued to do ' Casablanca ' 
on the dusty wind-swept road ; but her expression 
showed what she felt, and duty and pleasure were not 
one with her to-day. If one goes away in August 
it is very difficult to realise the growth that will take 
place before one returns. Shrubs and creepers grow 
very little in hot dry weather up to the end of July, but 
the heavy dews of August and September cause the 
growth to be rapid and vigorous and everything should 
be secured before this begins : creepers nailed up and 
all tall plants given a strong support higher than 
themselves. Nasturtiums must be ruthlessly pulled up 
when they threaten to smother more precious plants. 
27th. — Fetching the goats home from the field 
this afternoon, I was letting them graze as usual by 
the road-side when a big van came along and two were 
left behind, frightened at the noise. They began to run 
the wrong way, back towards the field, when the goat 
that had followed me, the mother of one of the 
frightened pair, saw what had happened and she at once 



222 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

ran back bleating, and they, reassured by her voice, 
braved the alarming van and joined where I waited. 
We always take the goats to their pasture by the longer 
route along the road as the hard gritty walk twice a 
day is so good for their feet, besides which they like 
best the food they find in the hedges and they can pick 
up enough to last a long time in half an hour, as they 
chew the cud hke cows. ' SaUie,' the youngest, has 
never to be led to pasture, as she is devoted to the one 
who always takes them, but if he is away she will run 
back crying and has to be led away. It is astonishing 
how few people realise the great advantage of goats 
on a smaU place — one cow and three goats is ideal. 
My cow calves about August and the goats kid in 
March and April. All autumn and wiater I have 
butter, milk, and cream from my Shetland, ' Ossa.' 
As she goes off in milk, the goats come on, and all the 
spring and summer I have all I require until July and 
then for a short time I have to^buy butter, and, if the 
house is full, a little milk, and the sovereign I get for 
the calf goes towards that bill. The goats each have 
a little hay and a handful of oats when they come in at 
night, each to a clean little stall, and their coats are 
kept groomed and shine like satin. I only keep 
narmies, so there is no smell whatever. I can sell the 
kids from the pure bred Anglo-Nubians, as they are from 
pedigree stock and even the plebeian English nannies' 
pair were sought after this year, the bilhe as a child's 
pet, but I kept the naimie myself. A man writing in 
praise of goats checked himself by saying ' Why do I 
continue to advocate goat-keeping when there are 
not enough good milkers to go round ? ' My advice 
is, if you get a good milker stick to her nanny kids, but 
if you wish to be saved heart-rending cries from mother 



JULY 223 

and child when the inevitable parting takes place, 
separate them the minute the kids are born and never 
let the mother see her children, which must be brought 
up by hand and bottle-fed, then all goes well and she 
never murmurs. 

A good sowing was made to-day of several sorts of 
spring cabbage, watering the drills before sowing. 
We also planted out broad-leaved endive and more 
leeks. Cutting the side shoots and surplus leaves off 
tomato plants is almost a daily task, they grow so 
quickly and, if left on, there will be very little fruit. 
The ground has been dug and manured to-day for the 
last sowing of onions. The sea-kale beet is now at its 
best and cooked like sea-kale it is excellent ; the mid- 
ribs are very white and the leaves must be pulled, not 
cut, and the green taken off and this can be used like 
spinach. The difficulty about vegetarian stock is 
that it soon turns sour in mUd damp weather and 
on very wet days getting up vegetables on heavy land 
is sometimes a difficult task. Here is a recipe for 
soup with no vegetables but onions and parsley, which 
are usually ready to hand in most houses : 



E.G. 



MACARONI SOUP 



Two ounces of macaroni, one pint and a quarter 
of milk, half-ounce of bread-crumbs, one onion and one 
pint of water. Put the milk and the water on to boil, 
add salt to taste. Directly they reach boiling-point, 
throw in the onion and the macaroni. Simmer half 
an hour, then add the bread-crumbs and cook for a 
quarter of an hour longer. Pass all through a wire 
sieve, return to the pan, add chopped parsley to flavour ; 
serve with grated Parmesan cheese. 



224 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

Tomatoes are beginning to be plentiful and the 
small or badly-shaped ones can be used for soup. 

TOMATO SOUP 
Boil one pound of tomatoes till tender, pulp them 
through a sieve, add to them one teaspoonful of bi- 
carbonate of soda. Boil a pint of milk a quarter of an 
hour (to which you may add one ounce of Edwards' 
desiccated soup, which should be soaked in cold water 
a quarter of an hour if liked). Melt one ounce of butter 
in a stewpan, when it boils stir in one dessertspoonful 
of flour, add the milk and seasoning and when boiling 
add the tomato puree, heat again, but do not allow it 
to boil. 

Perpetual spinach is getting very coarse and turns 
a bad colour when cooked, and the round-leaved has 
mostly gone to seed ; one can use what one has in 
soup making a puree, adding it to good stock or use it 
for spinach souffle, which is always hked. 

SPINACH SOUFFLE 

Put a quarter of a pint of milk and two ounces of 
butter on the fire and when boiling thicken with two 
ounces of flour which has been diluted with a quarter 
of a pint of milk. Eetum to the fire till it boils. Then 
add two tablespoonfuls of spinach puree, prepared as 
usual only rather stiff, the yolks of two eggs, stir well 
together and add the whites of four eggs whipped 
stiffly. Pour into a pie-dish and bake half an hour. 

Cauhflowers are nice fried when very young after 
partly boiling, or if they grow rather open they can be 
cut up, partly boiled, rolled in batter as for fritters, and 
fried or baked in scallop-shells. 



JULY 225 

Vegetable marrows are rather a dull vegetable. 
This way of cooking them makes a change : 

VEGETABLE MARROW CAKES 

Two large vegetable marrows or four small 
ones, cut in small squares and put on to boil. 
One large onion and two small ones ; cut these 
up and also put on to boil. When both marrows 
and onions are soft, strain thoroughly and pass 
through a sieve, put this puree into a basin with 
a good-sized slice of bread soaked in water and 
squeezed dry, mix also a cupful of grated Parmesan 
cheese and two eggs. Mix all thoroughly together in 
the basin with a wooden spoon. Make small cakes of 
this mixture, roll them in white of egg and fry in butter 
or oil. 

BROWN ROUX SAUCE 
(From ' Dainty Dishes ') 

Lay a quantity of fine flour in a moderate oven till 
it is a fine even brown — ^not too dark. Melt some butter 
very slowly and mix with the flour enough to form the 
thickness of paste, stirring well with a wooden spoon 
for fifteen to twenty minutes till it is of a yellowish- 
brown colour. This must be done slowly with care 
and patience ; if the fire is too hot it will turn bitter. 
When cold it will cut with a knife. It wiU keep for a 
fortnight. 

STEWED FRENCH BEANS 

Cut them up after removing the fibres, unless very 
young, when they can be cooked whole, wash them in 
salt and water, put them on to boil in a good deal of 



226 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

salted water. When they are about half-done, drain 
them and put them in a stewpan with three spoonfuls 
of vegetarian stock, some cream, a piece of butter rolled 
in flour. Stir gently tiU quite tender and serve hot. 

Scarlet runners can be treated in the same way. 
These should be picked when quite young and supple ; 
directly they are stiff they are not nearly so deUcious. 

Ehubarb that was not too much picked in the spring 
is very good now if you use the thin sticks ; or added 
to other fruit it makes a change. 

In going round a small kitchen garden there are 
often a few berries left on many of the trees — ^red and 
black currants, raspberries, &c. — ^not enough to cook 
alone, but all together they will make a good dish, and 
if put through a wire sieve and a Uttle arrowroot and 
water added are weU worth using. 

A good way to use very sour fruit, such as certain 
kinds of plums or late gooseberries, is to stew them, 
pass them through a sieve, and after lining a pie-dish 
with sponge cake or Madeira cake, pour some of the 
fruit on, put another layer of cake and then fruit as 
with summer pudding, leaving all to soak for a day and 
adding a rather sweet custard on the top. The sweetness 
of the cake is relieved by the acid fruit. 



AUGUST 

Oxford Botanical Garden — Stratford-on-Avon — Shakespeare and 
Bacon — ^New Dahlias — The Medical Congress — Our Teeth — 
Nut and Fruit Trees as Hedgerows — A BicyoHng and Camping 
Tour — First Night in a Tent — ^A Bed of Sawdust — ^An 
Alarming Experience — ^Treves and its Roman Remains — Our 
Camp by the Wood — ^A Night in an Empty House — ^A 
Volcanic Region — The Rhine — Life in a German Castle — ^A 
Masefield Poem — ^Vegetable Recipes. 

I HAVE had a delightful expedition the last few days. 
A friend came to fetch me in her car to take me to 
her home near Stratford-on-Avon, where I had never 
been. We lunched at Oxford on the way, and I just 
had time to visit the Botanic Garden, the oldest 
medicine garden in England, founded in 1458. It 
is lovely and picturesque and was planted on the 
site of the old Jewish cemetery ; it is surrounded 
by very high old brick walls. I thought it was not 
kept up at all as a botanic garden in a place like 
Oxford ought to be. The plants are more or less 
massed together in botanical groups, but many of 
the names of the plants on the labels are effaced and 
unreadable. Surely this should not be in a garden 
preserved for instruction ? The beautiful old wall 
close to the entrance, which would favour a half-hardy 
creeper, is disfigured by an ugly, shabby greenhouse, 
which could easily be removed to a less conspicuous 
place. I suppose it's all the old question of no money 
anywhere ; and medicine gardens, at one time of supreme 
importance, are now of no interest to anyone; but 

227 q2 



228 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

botany, and the various families plants belong to, is 
as interesting now as it ever was to each generation. 
I believe the younger Tradescant was gardener here 
for some time. He left his father's and his own 
treasures, collected over the world, to his friend 
Ashmole ; he in his turn gave them to Oxford, where 
they form the principal part of the Ashmolean Museum. 
The herbaceous border was no better than can be seen 
round nearly every country house to-day ; but at the 
back of the border on the high wall I saw what I had 
only seen at Miss Jekyll's — the handsome Spiraea Lind- 
leyana (plume meadow-sweet), grown as a wall plant, 
and looked exceedingly well and unusual. It had been 
well pruned, and its great white plumes were, of course, 
just in their full beauty ; they do not last very long, 
though the foUage is always good. We reached 
Stratford-on-Avon towards five o'clock, and the first 
sight of the recently-erected memorial theatre gave me 
a shock — I thought it so ugly. Why, oh why, with all 
the beauty of the centuries behind us, are modern things 
so ugly ? The whole place is old-worldy and charming ; 
and though so little is" really known of Shakespeare's 
life, his presence pervades everywhere, from the font of 
his infancy to his grave inside the altar rail with the 
slab beside it cursing anyone who ' should dig the dust ' 
of his grave. Some think this was to prevent his wife, 
whom he hated and who survived him, being buried 
beside him ; several of his family are buried around him. 
All restoration and preserving seems to have been done 
of late years in the right spirit, but in 1707 the verses 
inscribed on a slab to the poet's daughter Susannah 
were erased in order to make room for someone else. 
The monument of Shakespeare on the north wall is so 



AUGUST 229 

often engraved, it strikes one as most familiar. I was 
surprised to find they know by proof that it was erected 
prior to 1623 — Shakespeare died in 1616, his wife, who 
was eight years older than he, died in 1623, so the 
monument is far more interestingly contemporaneous 
than I knew, and the parish register shows the baptism 
and burial of the poet. At Stratford-on-Avon all the 
horrible Bacon stories about Shakespeare's writings 
seem to fly away like evil spirits. AU the cottages 
and the museum part is very well done ; and even if it 
had nothing to do with Shakespeare, it would be deeply 
interesting, showing the manners and customs of life 
in country villages in the time of Elizabeth. I am all 
for early marriages, but that he ia honour married at 
nineteen a girl of twenty-seven may perhaps account 
for much that was probably a tragic life. How often 
a clever youth's first love is for a woman much older 
than himself ! One little thing arrested my attention ; 
the rushes used at the time to burn were not covered 
with grease till long after, but were merely the dried 
tall rushes from the riverside, held by a kind of candle- 
stick that pinched the dried rush ; an impatient soul 
who wanted more light doubled up his rush — ^thus the 
origin of the saying, ' burning the candle at both ends,' 
which had never seemed to me very easy to explain. 
It was not till much later that what were called rush 
hghts came in, first rushes dipped in grease and then 
cotton dipped in tallow — though they were still called 
rush-lights and used as night-lights in nurseries. I can 
just remember in my childhood these rush-lights that 
were stuck into Japan pails perforated all over with 
round holes, and these made strange patterns on the 
walls and ceUings — agitating to a feverish child. The 



230 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

memory of Shakespeare so overshadows everything at 
Stratford-on-Avon, it is difficult to think anything else 
really matters. The stone bridge is fine, and was built 
in Henry VII.'s time, so Shakespeare must often have 
crossed it. ' Plant Lore and Garden Craft of Shake- 
speare,' by Canon EUacombe, as well as a little book by 
Sidney Beisly called ' Shakespeare's Garden,' are rather 
fascinating for gardeners ; all the plants and flowers 
named in Shakespeare's works described and defined, 
all the quotations, with the plants named, are given, 
even the old oak of Heme the Hunter, which Mrs. Page 
speaks of in the ' Merry Wives of Windsor,' and which 
George III. inadvertently caused to be cut down — ^it was 
a large old tree in the time of Shakespeare, 250 years ago, 
in 1664. I think the number of plants mentioned very 
interesting. I have had to make up with books the two or 
three hours we spent in Stratford ; the book that seems 
to me the most interesting is ' The Man Shakespeare and 
his Tragic Life Story,' by Frank Harris, pubhshed in 
1909. Out of the chronology of the plays he endeavours 
with great abihty to weave the character of the man. 
Mr. Harris says just what I feel about biography : 
' Paint him for us as he lived, and we will take it you 
know something about him.' Later he says : ' The 
wonderful age in which we live — this twentieth century 
with its X-rays that enables us to see through the skin 
and flesh of men, and to study the working of their 
organs and muscles and nerves, has brought a new spirit 
into the world — a spirit of fidelity to fact, and with it 
a new and higher ideal of hfe and of art which must of 
necessity change and transform all the conditions of 
existence, and in time modify the almost inmautable 
nature of man. For this new spirit, this love of the 



AUGUST 231 

fact of truth, this passion for reality will do away with 
the foohsh fears and futile hopes which have fretted 
the childhood of our race, and will slowly but surely 
estabUsh on broad foundations the kingdom of man 
upon earth — for that is the meaning and purpose of the 
change which is now coming over the world. The faiths 
and convictions of twenty centuries are passing away, 
and the forms and institutions of a hundred generations 
of men are dissolving before us like the baseless fabric 
of a dream.' The preface is too long for me to go on 
quoting, but it is all in favour of what I most admire 
— striving after the truth. His method is ' first of all 
to prove that Shakespeare has painted himself twenty 
times from youth to age at full length,' and he adds : 
' Let me come nearer to my purpose by means of a 
simile. Talking with Sir David GiU one evening on 
shipboard about the fixed stars, he pointed out one to 
me which is so distant that we cannot measure how 
far it is away from us and can form no idea of its 
magnitude. "But surely," I exclaimed, "the great 
modern telescopes must bring the star nearer and 
magnify it ? " " No," he replied, " no, the best instru- 
ments make the star clearer to us, but certainly not 
larger." This is what I wish to do in regard to 
Shakespeare, make him clearer to men, even if I do 
not make him larger.' This is all in the introduction, 
and much more, and then all through the book, by 
quotations from the plays and the sonnets and the 
poems, he tries to make his pictur&of the man visible to 
his readers ; it is all very clever, and to me very interest- 
ing. It is the fashion just now amongst a certain set 
to say that Shakespeare is a very overrated man ; he 
essentially belongs to his time, but that is the case, and 



232 POT-POURRI MIXED|BY TWO 

must be, ■with all the great authors of the world from 
the Bible downwards. I wish I could have seen more 
of Shakespeare's country and the houses and castles 
that existed in his time. I did see Warwick Castle, and 
that gem of an old house called Compton Wynyates. 
There seems some doubt about the origin of the name, 
but in old documents it is called Vinegates, or Vineyard, 
a pretty origin for a spot so hkely to be tried for vine- 
growing. The garden was so suitably planted — full of 
perennial plants, strong-growing and easy to manage, 
and a few annuals and biennials, and the woods hung 
all around in their summer clothing — unusually thick 
everywhere this year. 

My articles in the Illustrated London News have 
brought me several letters. This one is, no doubt, true ; 
the kind writer says : ' You refer to Digitalis 
purpurea, and you say Digitalis means finger of 
a glove ; how it got turned into foxglove I know not. 
Did it ever occur to you that foxglove is a corruption 
of " folks' glove," the wee folks' glove, or fairies' glove ? ' 
I humbly think that is the explanation. 

So many people do not see the late August horti- 
cultural shows in London that I think you may care 
to have this extract from the Times' account of the 
dahlias shown on August 26 : ' The development of 
the season was most noticed in the large number of 
exhibits of dahhas, now shown well for the first time 
this year, and the awards for novelties had the authority 
of the National DahUa Society as weU as the Royal 
Horticultural Society. " Lily Eeed " from Mr. Shoe- 
smith is a refined lemon-yellow cactus, the best of 
its colour. " Aphrodite " is a pure white giant paeony- 
flowered variety from Mr. Turner. Messrs. Cheal won an 



AUGUST 233 

award with " Eegulus," a very neat small pompon, and 
Messrs. Dobbie won certificates with the collarettes 
" Tusca " and " Prince of Orange." To these last 
a show never really does credit, as their value lies in 
the freedom with which they bloom and the fine way 
they have of holding the flowers boldly above the 
foliage. 

' Messrs. Kelway's gladioli were very much admired, 
three new seedUngs securing awards. " Mrs. Bromet " 
especially was a fine flower, a pale sulphur yellow in a 
vigorous spike of 23 blooms, but only one spike of it 
was shown, and the award loses in weight just as the 
flowers lose in effect from this niggardhness. What 
the gladiolus gives in pinks and reds the montbretia 
gives in orange and brown, and a very fine collection 
of recent hybrids was shown by Messrs. Wallace. Mr. 
Sidney Morris won an award with a new seedling named 
' ' Queen Adelaide." It is much larger than the favourite 
" Germania," but it has the same rich deep orange 
flowers and purple shaded buds. Dobbies' annual 
chrysanthemum " Improved Northern Star" attracted 
much attention and won an award. It is a form of 
carinatum, with silvery purple disc and white rays 
separated from the disc by a narrow band of yellowi 
The long stems make it invaluable for cutting, and in 
water the flowers will keep fresh for a fortnight.' 

I have spent hours reading the Times' very 
full report of the Medical Congress ; I have cut it 
out and will keep it for you as you are abroad. So 
far as an ignorant lay person can understand the 
various reports, I find them especially interesting, as 
they confirm more and more my persuasion that pre- 
serving health rests entirely with the public. All these 



234 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

clever men seem to pass over the matter as of no 
importance, either for school children or ourselves. 
One dentist has been making researches amongst 
the teeth of the mummies of Egypt, trying to find 
out how far their teeth were as decayed as our own. 
He declares they are infinitely better than the teeth 
of to-day ; that certainly would not be difficult — the 
teeth of to-day are a disgrace to civilisation, and the 
teeth of the poor make my heart ache. Well, he 
only of all these wonderful microscopic discoverers, 
tells us that food may be an important factor in health, 
and suggests that the better teeth of the Egyptians 
those thousands of years ago can possibly be attributed 
to the fact that their corn was coarse ground, and all 
that we eat is so finely ground, especially the rolled 
ground flour, that it becomes a sticky paste in the 
mouth. This is most markedly the case with the cheap 
biscuits the children of the poor eat so much, and 
especially before going to bed ; and even many nurses 
only clean children's teeth in the morning instead of at 
night as well, which is really the most important time. 
It never seems to have struck this dentist that the whole 
food of the ancient Egyptians was absolutely different 
from ours, and is so to this day. I could see no word 
about a really healthy body being the best preventive 
of all kinds of disease. There was no instruction 
about food or warning against alcohol, nothing to 
help anyone to preserve his health ; all the intellect, 
all the thought, all the discussions were centred 
round disease in aU its forms and how to cure it by 
the knife or by drugs. Doctors leave nearly all that 
concerns diet to the public, guided by quacks ; and 
the terrible advertisements that appear day by day 



AUGUST 235 

of tonic wines, containing dangerous drugs as well 
as alcohol, often really point the road to the lunatic 
asylum and premature death, especially among women ; 
but many of these advertised poisons are recommended 
even by doctors to please their patients. I was told 
by a friend, head of a large inebriate home for women, 
that many of the cases that come under her control 
of late, admit, when questioned, that they took to drink 
through the habit of taking certain tonic wines con- 
taining drugs, and that they were driven to stronger 
stimulants through the reaction that took place when 
they were left off. It is a sorrow to me to remember 
that such a good man as Mr. Gladstone made the 
terrible mistake of granting grocers' licenses, which 
I think have also been responsible for the beginning 
of much drunkenness among women. The conference, 
I own, was a very great disappointment to me, though 
no doubt it was silly to hope that a profession should 
be expected to cut its own throat. I am afraid that 
any young doctor who takes up the line of trying to 
prevent disease through attention to food is looked 
upon with mingled hate and fear or cast aside as a 
' crank,' and the old old reason remains that ' men 
like darkness rather than light,' and when this same 
blindness seems carried into the highest realms of 
modern scientific research — well, it fills me with 
despair. No keeper of animals is so indifferent about 
the food he gives them. I know a case of a young 
horse that was overworked and underfed in its youth ; 
if given dry food its serious intestinal trouble returns, 
if put out to grass it becomes quite healthy again and 
does its work better than when in the stable. 

A friend of mine is proposing to start a society 



236 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

to plant our roads and commons, embankments and 
waste lands witli food trees, such as sweet chestnuts, 
hazel-nuts, cobnuts, hardy apples, pears, plums, 
damsons, &c., according to the suitability of the soil. 
I can't imagine a better plan. One is told. Oh ! they 
would be stolen. Well, if they were, it would give the 
children wholesome food ; anything that helps the 
poor to feed their families on a natural nourishing 
diet is to be desired. I shall never be really happy 
till we have municipal bread and municipal water 
in every village, so that no one need actually starve. 
This planting would solve several problems, and is 
universal in Germany, where, from long custom, the 
fruit is not stolen, and it immensely increases the 
beauty of spring. The only planting done in England 
seems non-food- bearing trees, and masses of ' May,' 
thorn hedges and bushes ; these make excellent food 
for birds, and Nature provides that from slight variety 
of the time of blossoming, some fruit one year and 
some another. One side of my garden runs a straight 
bit of road, supposed to have been part of an old 
Eoman packhorse track from Guildford to London ; it 
is bordered with magnificent old sweet chestnut-trees ; 
there are none other in the immediate neighbourhood. 
I wonder if they are descendants of those brought by 
Eomans from their own favoured land ? It is touching 
to see generation after generation of boys and girls 
come up in October, and for weeks turn over the 
fallen leaves to find the chestnuts ; some years they 
are very good and cook admirably, other years they 
almost fail altogether. Nut-trees do well here, and 
certain not over-cultivated apple-trees. 

M. T. Eable. 



AUGUST 237 

Notes from Bedhazel. 

25th. — My camping tour is over, and I am going 
to write an account of it instead of my garden notes 
for this month. I left home on July 26, and stayed 
for the week-end at Woodlands, and spent Monday, 28th, 
in London, leaving Liverpool Street by the 6.30 
train. I felt rather as if I were dressed for theatricals 
as I got out of the train in my very short grey tweed 
skirt ; fortunately for me, the pilgrims from the long 
suffrage walk had arrived in London, and were to be 
seen everywhere dressed for the road, so I was not 
conspicuous. I crossed from Harwich with my three 
friends and their bicycles — ^a mother and her boy and 
girl. At Antwerp, the fact that we had each a passport 
turned the stern and overbearing air of the very 
officious customs men into one of respect; a httle 
conversation and account of ourselves developed this 
into friendship. We had six hours in which to see 
Antwerp, but personally I was too full of excitement 
and apprehension to fully enjoy any of it. I made 
one rather happy discovery. Some years ago I saw 
in the smoking-room of a cousin of mine a French 
sonnet called ' Le Bonheur,' framed and hung on a 
wall, and tried to get it for myself ; this I failed to do 
until this summer, when I saw the framed poem at 
a little sale at the house of a friend : it is by Plantin, 
and at the bottom of the page it said that it was printed 
by him as well. This puzzled me — a printer poet is 
unusual, but I could find out nothing about him. When 
wandering about Antwerp I visited the Musee Plantin, 
and after exploring the lovely old house, admiring the 
furniture and pictures, I came to a room fitted with a 



238 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

printing press, and saw on one of the old machines a 
copy of my favourite sonnet ; it seemed so familiar, and 
when I came home I looked at once in the guide-book 
and found all about my poet-printer. Christophe 
Plantin was born in 1514 at St. Avertin de Tours. 
He made great progress in the art of printing, and 
PhUippe II. named him his printer- in-chief, and ordered 
him to print the Polyglot Bible in Alcala, which he 
did in eight volumes ; he was a highly educated man, 
and died at Antwerp in 1589. This is his sonnet : — 

Le Bonheur de ce monde 

Avoir une maison commode, propre et belle, 

Un jaidin tapiss6 d'espaliers odorans, 

Des fruits, d'excellent vin, peu de train, peu d'enfans, 

Poss6der seul sans bruit une femme fidMe. 

N'avoir dettes, amour, ni proces, ni querelle, 
Ni de partage k faire avecque ses parens, 
Se contenter de peu, n'esperer rien des Grands, 
Begler tous ses desseins sur un juste modele. 

Vivre aveoque franchise et sans ambition, 
S'adonner sans scrupule k la devotion, 
Domter ses passions, les rendre obdissautes, 
Conserver I'esprit libre et le jugement fort. 
Dire son Chapelet en cultivant ses entes, 
C'est attendre chez soi bien doucement la mort. 

Copie d'un sonnet compose par Plantin au XVIo siecle imprim^ 
en caraot^res de I'dpoque h I'lmprimerie plantinienne. 

As I led my overladen bicycle from the boat to 
the station, from which we were to take the train for 
Namur, I began to wonder if the tour would, after all, 
be possible. My bicycle was almost unmanageable; 
I did not dare to mount it, on the slightest provocation 
It reared up on its back wheel and went where it liked; 
I soon realised that something must be done to make 



AUGUST 239 

the burden less (whenever we travelled by train we 
had to unload our bicycles) — so directly we got into the 
train at Namur I began to unpack the basket which 
was strapped on to the back carrier and contained my 
clothes. Taking out the things I should want every 
day, I packed it up again and sent it off, when we 
changed at Brussels, to Eohternach, a place we hoped 
to reach in a week's time ; for some occult reason the 
basket, when sent off from the railway station, arrived 
at the post-of&ce. The things I had left were quite 
enough ; on the back carrier was packed my folding 
water-bucket and basin, both made of canvas, a water- 
proof cape and apron and a pair of brown canvas 
shoes for wearing in camp, and my bathing suit. In 
the canvas saddle-bags which hung over the back wheel 
were my eider-down qmlt, my bed bag, the tent, and 
with its aluminium pegs, a tiny down pillow, folding 
candlestick, towel, and dish-cloth. In the basket on 
the handle-bar were my pyjamas, brush and comb 
and sponge, soap, tooth-brush, and one clean collar 
and handkerchief and one sixpenny paper book and 
my writing things. On the top of this I strapped a 
big Japanese basket that was round, but soft like a 
fish-bag, and this held an aluminium pot for honey, 
some packets of dried vegetarian soup, spoon, knife, 
and two mugs — one for the butter and one to drink 
out of, and as I went I kept the basket supplied with 
cheese, bread, and a cucumber, cakes, macaroon biscuits, 
raisins, and preserved apples. Everything was strapped 
very securely, and the bamboo tent-poles were fastened 
down the side of the bicycle from the saddle to the 
hub of the back wheel. I had never camped before, 
and when we arrived at the town of Namur at 6.30 



240 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

o'clock it was getting dusk and chilly, and the rough 
roads, paved with cobble-stones, added a burden to 
tired bodies that had been on the strain since the early 
morning of the previous day. Of course, camping 
near a town is always hopeless, and this town, though 
small in itself, seemed to have no end to its outer parts ; 
endless roads of those tall doll's-house-looking villas 
beloved by foreigners, with stiff flower-beds, high iron 
gates and steps leading to the front door, a pedestal 
and vase in the exact middle of the garden or a china 
hfe-sized parrot was the usual ornament. Most of the 
inmates were taking the air after an evening meal. 
Nothing could have looked less promising — the road 
was level, running at the side of the river. There were 
a few open spaces ; small patches of ground here and 
there were cultivated and planted with mangels or 
vegetables, but one cannot camp on the top of vege- 
tables. At last we saw in the dim light a small field 
behind a house, and, joy of joys, there were haycocks. 
Two women in the front garden seemed quite de- 
lighted to see us, and entered into the joke of it all with 
re^l un-English gaiety. In half an hour we had our 
tents up, had filled our bed bags (which were made of 
cashmere, lined with sateen) with hay, and were drink- 
ing soup made on our stove. Our friends came out to 
watch us ; the husband was a miller, and very interested 
in the home-made bread we had with us. That first 
night I learned how not to make a bed. I had fiUed 
the bag tightly with hay, ramming it in hard, and it 
was fullest in the middle ; of course, the result was a 
lump like a mole-heap, on which my hip balanced 
while the rest of my body, head and legs, slipped off at 
the sides, top and comers. Yes, it was a most un- 



AUGUST 241 

pleasant night, and the damp mist from the river 
made the early morning strangely unwelcome. I had 
not learned that a tent with no flysheet is apt to leak 
where the side flaps join, and all clothes laid at the 
side must be wrapped ia macintosh if they are to be 
kept dry. In spite of all I was very happy and felt 
quite able to cope with all difficulties. We left our 
camp, after much handshaking and good-byes all round, 
about 8.30, and I felt far more hopeful as to the future 
than I had done before leaving home. The next few 
days were fine and gradually grew hotter and hotter. 
We had no difficulty in finding nice places to camp. 
At the second camp there being no hay or straw avail- 
able we begged or rather offered to buy sawdust, but a 
charming young carpenter at the top of the village 
filled our beds for us and refused any payment. He 
lent us a wheelbarrow and all the people came out of 
their cottages to see us pass. We were so weak with 
laughing that wheeling a flimsy barrow heaped up 
with a heavy load of sawdust was no easy matter, and 
when it came to carrying the bed across the brook to 
our camp, still laughing, I missed my footing and 
splashed in up to my knee, only just saving the bed 
from a drenching. But the sawdust was not a success ; 
it was harder than wood and its only advantage over 
the ground was that one could scratch little holes in it 
in which to arrange hip and shoulder. We were always 
most comfortable near a big farm, as straw made an 
ideal bed if properly arranged, keeping the shape of 
the truss in the bag but putting some straw sideways 
at the top to form a firm pillow. The bed should always 
slant from the head ; in fact, the tent is best pitched 
on a sUght slope. Sometimes there was a river and a 



242 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

bathe before supper. This was ideal. There was 
nearly always a stream in which we washed our clothes 
every few days. At other times we passed a river at 
midday, and in out-of-the-way places it was quite easy 
to change into our bathing things; nothing rested us so 
much. The roads were excellent while we were in the 
valley, but soon we began to climb the Ardennes — ^long 
straight roads and such hills ! The weather got hotter 
and hotter. Celes was a charming village, but so 
much in a valley that the sun did not reach the camp 
until seven or eight o'clock. Rochefort was quaint 
and delightful ; we passed through it and camped 
farther on at On. There the guard from the castle 
came down and asked what we were doing. However, 
the farmer's wife sent him away. We had a day of 
climbing and found a resting-place at Anderman where 
we shared a field with many hens and eight hives of 
bees. A village friendly monthly nurse came up to chat, 
and took the children to pick whortleberries in a wood ; 
they were so big and ripe that we enjoyed them raw. 
Our supper, as a rule, consisted of hot soup, made 
from the dry vegetarian packets prepared by Maggi, 
potatoes, if we had time to cook them or could get them 
cooked at the farm, bread, butter, honey, and cakes. 
Luncheon was the same, with cheese instead of soup, 
and lettuce and cucumber when we could get them. 
The bread was sometimes called black and rather sour, 
but rolls could be got at most places. Wiltz looks 
most unprepossessing from the distance as the lower 
town by the river has some sort of quarry works. We 
camped in the midst of an old factory worked by a 
mill and bathed in the delicious clear trout stream. 
A tailor, home for his holiday and staying in a cottage 



AUGUST 243 

by the railway -with his mother and sister, took com- 
plete charge of us, settled with the miller, brought us 
hot water and goat's milk and thick quilts at bed-time. 
Next morning we were invited to take our breakfast 
in the warm kitchen, while the family put on their 
best to go to early mass ; they refused any payment 
and we left them on Sunday morning with promises 
to send picture post cards of London, the possession of 
which seemed to be his idea of bliss. The little town 
on the hill is most attractive. My bicycle requiring 
some repair, it was put in order by the jeweller, and 
his answer to my inquiry how much to pay was : ' Oh, 
cela n'en vaut pas la peine.' The narrow streets were 
decorated with flower-dressed shrines, and branches of 
fir standing sentry along the sides like Christmas trees 
showed that something unusual was to take place. We 
found the decorations were for a young priest about 
to be ordained ; his native village was en fSte in his 
honour. We hurried back to Eck for eleven o'clock 
mass and heard a pathetic sermon from the village 
priest who had been through a libel action. He 
scolded his congregation for not standing up for him 
better and finished by saying : ' I have won the action 
but it leaves my bones cold.' Our next camp was after 
a day of perpetual climbing in hot sun, and we had to 
keep a sharp look-out for a camp, as we knew we were 
nearing Ettelbach. We had the good fortune to find a 
farm with two beautiful ponds in which we bathed 
at once. We pitched in a sloping field some distance 
behind the farm out of sight of the village. I shall 
always remember this camp because it was the only 
place during the tour where I felt really frightened — 
that horrible sickening feeling of physical fear that 

s2 



244 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

creeps over one before the reasoning faculties have time 
to crush it out. The farmer and his wife came and 
talked to us, and as it grew dusk a strange-looking man 
came into the field and sat down so near my tent that 
whenever I looked out I saw his curious, almost mad- 
looking, eyes fixed on me; he lay back on the grass 
silently watching. The farmer told my friend that 
he was a ' queer customer,' a notorious poacher, and, 
though not likely to attack us, he bore a bad reputa- 
tion, and the farmer added we must call him if we were 
alarmed in the night. As the farm was quite a distance 
from our camp this advice was not consoling. After 
the farmer left, my friend spoke to the poacher, who 
answered very gruffly, and at last moved off up the field. 
I at first felt great relief, but this turned quickly to a 
shudder of apprehension when, on looking up the field, I 
saw his head over the hedge and realised he was stiU 
watching us. It soon grew too dark to see if he was still 
there or not. That night I did not enjoy, and the effort 
of fighting down my fears made sleep very difficult. 
However, when it began to get light I felt certain there 
was no further likelihood of our being disturbed, and I 
had some peaceful sleep. The next day we took the train 
to Vianden, as it was a climb all the way and we needed 
rest badly. The view from the carriage windows 
was beautiful all the way. We found the castle at 
Vianden quite worth a steep climb to visit, and the 
little town itself is interesting and picturesque. We 
reached Echternach next day and camped at Dilling 
by the side of the Sauer, going into Echternach by tram 
to fetch my basket of clothes, which I mentioned was 
sent off from Brussels station (and which arrived for 
no sort of reason, and quite contrary to the foretelling 



AUGUST 245 

of the railway people, at the post-ofi&ce at Echternach). 
I travelled with a handsome girl who was carrying an 
enormous basket filled with trout, none of which were 
less than two and a half pounds in weight ; all caught 
in the river. We spent a few hours in the middle of 
the next day at Treves, and found it wonderfully fas- 
cinating, the Eoman remains are in a wonderful state 
of preservation. At the time of the war of Succession 
and the French Eevolution, it suffered much; before 
that it could boast more ecclesiastical buildings than 
any other city of the same size. The cathedral, built 
entirely in the Eomanesque style, was begun by the 
Empress Helena, mother of Constantine, and it was 
completed in the twelfth century. It is in the most 
wonderful state of preservation, only spoUed inside 
by decoration, plaster, and paint. The Basilica or 
Imperial Hall, originally part of the palace of the electors 
and bishops, is now used as a Lutheran church, and has 
Suffered in the same way. The Porta Nigra is of un- 
certain age, but it is supposed to have been built in the 
days of Constantine the Great. It was built onto in the 
eleventh century and used as a church, Simeon of 
Syracuse, who lived an ascetic and eccentric life for some 
years at the top of the building, having endowed it 
with a holy character. Napoleon used part of the lead 
roof for ammunition and the Prussian Government 
have completed the restoration to its original character 
by clearing away all that remained of the eleventh 
century addition. At Egel, a village near to Treves, 
we suddenly came upon one of thfe most beautiful 
columns I ever saw. It is a four-sided obelisk of sand- 
stone, bearing carvings, inscriptions, and bas-reliefs. 
The origin of it is unknown, but the most likely 



246 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

explanation seems to be that it was set up by two 
brothers named Secundus, partly to celebrate their 
sister's marriage, partly as a funeral memorial to a 
deceased relative ; a curious connection of ideas 
and an amusing instance of old-world methods of 
economy. Our camp near Treves was at the end of 
a narrow valley which we arrived at by turning up a 
narrow village street ; houses on either side and nothing 
but a narrow track down the middle of it. We camped 
on a tiny patch of pigs' pasture in the middle of their 
allotments. The forest-covered hills beyond made 
the spot very picturesque, and after school the 
children came trooping up with baskets fastened to 
their backs to collect leaves in the wood ; we also 
filled our beds with them, and they made fairly com- 
fortable bedding. The people were, as always, ex- 
traordinarily kind, and any trouble we gave them was 
amply paid for by the surprising pleasure they 
took in watching us pitch our tent and in finding out 
every detail of our ages, condition, family, and cir- 
cumstances in general. The number of servants I 
kept was a very usual question ; the fact that I was 
' rich enough not to marry ' impressed them enormously, 
and one old man asked, if that was the case, was I paying 
the expenses of the whole party. Our next camp was 
almost ideal, it only lacked a river in which to bathe, 
but the situation enabled us to light a fire and there 
was abundance of water, so we almost had hot baths. 
There was no actual vUlage, only a mill and a school. 
We settled behind the school on a piece of land backed 
by a wood where there were rocks for tables and short, 
soft, thyme-spangled turf on which to pitch our tent. 
The schoolmaster lodged at the mill, and he and the 



AUGUST 247 

miller's pretty daughter came up after supper and 
brought us red currants sprinkled with sugar. I was 
just ready for bed and so clean after a splendid wash 
in the open, but on my way to the fire, walking in the 
dark, one clean foot went into a large mud-pat and had 
to be washed all over again, and when, after sitting by 
the fire for some time talking to my friend, I turned to 
leave her I put the other foot into a pan of boiling 
water — ^not a lucky evening. The next morning early 
the children came up to school and one small boy had 
a mouth organ. I do not know if his playing of ' God 
Save the King ' was meant as a compliment to our 
nationaUty or if it was an accident, but we took it to 
ourselves and clapped him vigorously. At this point 
we began to chmb up into the Eifel Gebirge, the 
volcanic region, and our first day we had a taste 
of what such climbing meant. The road wound round 
and round for miles up-hill, and then the moment we 
had climbed to the top an equally steep descent had 
to be ' got over,' one could not call it anything else, 
the process by which we did eventually get to the 
bottom — jumping and jolting from one side of the road 
to the other with both brakes jammed on hard and 
an occasional jump off when the road was too rough 
to be borne. Eoads worn into holes by ox-wagons 
and mended with lava from the extinct volcanoes 
are not ideal. At the end of a long day we had to take 
the best camp we could get — much too near a town 
and infested with children who stoned my tent while 
I ate my supper. It grew very cold and I began to 
dread the night. At last I settled to go to the hotel, 
and that being full I was given a room in a large 
newly-buUt empty house ; apparently the only room 



248 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

furnished was the one I was in on the ground floor 
with a large window onto the street. It was so nice to 
get plenty of hot water that I at once began washing 
garments and the room soon looked like the drying 
room of a steam laundry. At 8.80 the servant from 
the hotel came with a large key and asked me to lock 
the front door ' after the other lady had gone to bed,' 
pointing to my horror to the empty bed in the corner 
of the room. I stared in amazement, but repeating the 
request, she put the key into my hand and clattered out 
of the house. Her footstep on the hall was echoed 
through the empty house and I was left alone in my 
pyjamas, unable to go out and make a fuss with the 
manager. I realised I was alone in the house and a 
strange foreign, possibly repulsive, woman might come 
in at any hour of the night and sleep in my room ; also 
I must leave the front door open tiU she did come. 
Not knowing what else to do, I began to laugh and then 
got into bed and went to sleep. I woke at six and was 
reheved to find the lady had never arrived, so I got up , 
and locked the front door, a Mttle late in the day, or 
rather early. After more climbing next day we had a 
charming camp by the tiny monastery at Manderschied, 
which is occupied by monks, who, being of the Francis- 
can Order, are allowed to remain in Germany and nurse 
the sick. We spent one very happy warm day there and 
one unhappy wet one. In fact, the second evening was 
so unpromising we all went down to the town to get 
rooms ; we found the hviag room at the inn full of very 
quiet refined-looking German students, singing quite 
charmingly and drinking endless quantities of beer. 
I sat in the kitchen with the old grandmother and the 
babies, dryiag my things and watching the cooking. 



AUGUST 249 

The inn was very old and primitive, my hot water was 
brought up in a big bucket — great joy — and I slid 
downstairs to breakfast on my back ; the old polished 
oak staircase that began just outside my bedroom door 
was so worn there were hardly any steps to hold one's 
feet. The bed was, of course, of the mattress and 
quilt order, but everything was very clean. The little 
maid who waited on us had never heard Enghsh 
spoken or seen it written and she looked over my 
shoulder as I wrote a letter and laughed like a child 
when I spoke English to amuse her. The next day we 
rode through Lutzerath, the most out-of-the-way 
village we were in, very picturesque, and the people so 
unused to strangers that it was with great difficulty 
we got through the crowds who followed us every- 
where and surrounded the shops we entered. The 
country is all wonderfully interesting, the traces of 
volcanic agency can be seen everywhere, the numerous 
craters now filled with lakes and tarns often concealed 
and surrounded by higher ground. The guide-book of 
1868 speaks of the district as being the ' haunt of 
wolves and wild bears,' and speaks of some of the roads 
as 'almost impassable.' They are still remarkable for 
their wonderful windings and contortions. We were 
rewarded for our many stiff climbs by thirteen 
miles of gentle free-wheeling — seven miles before Alf 
and the rest the next day on our road to Coblentz. 
We passed through Bad Bertrich, a charming stuffy 
little place in the valley, which manages to be popular 
without being vulgar. On our way to Alf, where we 
joined the Mosel and rode along the banks for two 
days, we found a delightful camp, five miles from 
Coblentz. Most of the villages are picturesque and we 



250 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

crossed the river in a ferry when the road was bad. The 
absence of tramps and beggars gives one a safe feeling 
on the roads, and the bands of boys and young men 
on walking to\irs, dressed rather like the Pied Piper of 
HameHn with their peaked hats, feather-trimmed, 
carrying guitars and mandolins and singing as they go, 
are a pleasure to meet. Euined castles abound all 
along the route. We reached Coblentz at midday. I 
was charmed with the grandeur of its buildings and the 
beauty of the modern houses. The name comes from 
the Eoman ' Confluentes,' from the confluence of the 
two rivers. The Church of St. Castor dates from 1208, 
and was the place where the grandsons of Charlemagne 
met to divide his vast Empire into Germany, Prance, 
and Italy by the Treaty of Verdun. We took the 
steamer to Eiidesheim in order to see the beautiful 
scenery between Coblentz and Bingen. It seems the 
fashion in these days to decry the beauties of the Ehine, 
but we were quite charmed with the grandeur and were 
fortunate to have the clear atmosphere that is produced 
by thundery weather, and the cloud effects gave us 
great pleasure. We stayed the night in the cleanest 
inn in Germany. Eiidesheim looked very picturesque 
and weird as we groped our way along the narrow 
cobbled streets in search of a night's lodging. The 
Castle of Bromserberg was the home of the man who, 
when languishing ia captivity in the Holy Land, made 
the generous offer to the Virgin of his only daughter. 
On his return he found, rather naturally, that his 
daughter had made other arrangements and was 
betrothed to a knight from a neighbouring castle ; 
her father threatened her with a curse if she disobeyed 
him ; so, being a maid of character, she threw herself 



AUGUST 251 

into a river during a storm. My friends left me 
alone at Eiidesheim, and I spent the next day in 
Mainz and saw the Emperor ia a primrose-coloured 
motor, and was again treated to ' God Save the King,' 
this time played by one of the regimental bands as it 
passed where I was standing. I suppose most people 
know the tune is used in Germany. The words and 
music are supposed to have been composed by Dr. 
Henry Carey for a birthday dinner of George II. and 
played then for the first time, 1740. The air was 
probably taken from a composition played before 
Louis XIV. when he went to see one of Eacine's plays 
acted by the pupils of Mme. de Maintenon. 

I left Eiidesheim early next morning by steamer 
and at three o'clock I arrived at Cologne. I liked 
the town. As early as the twelfth century there was 
a flourishing trade between Cologne and England, 
and the town, then capital of Lower Germany, had 
its own warehouses at the Guildhall in London. The 
bridge of boats that crosses the Ehine at this point 
gives a curiously primitive look to the river, and it 
was amusing to watch the bridge come to pieces to 
let a steamer pass, and then hurry together again to 
accommodate the traffic. I, of course, visited the 
cathedral, but was just almost too late for the picture 
gallery ; however, I saw a few pictures, mostly modern. 
One I admired immensely is called Charity, it is by Oscar 
Begas ; another was a portrait of Queen Elizabeth, 
not my idea of the Virgin Queen, far too gracious and 
soft, but a very beautiful picture and full of life and 
character. When I went back to fetch my bicycle 
from the cloak-room and arrived at the starting-place 
of the Eotterdam steamer, I found the quay surrounded 



252 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

by an impenetrable mass of top-hatted men seeing off 
some guild-member or other aproned beribboned idiot 
belongiDg to a club ; they were aU singing most 
charmingly, but I was too anxious as to whether I 
should ever reach my steamer to enjoy their songs. 
When I did get on board I secured a deck-chair and on 
this, wrapped in my eider-down, I spent a very com- 
fortable night. I found Rotterdam a most harassing 
place in which to spend four hours for anyone not 
knowing enough Dutch to keep body and soul together. 
I was absolutely lost at 4.30. I had arrived at a canal 
in a tram, and did not know the name of the canal from 
which I started. I might have been there stiU, but 
mercifully the name ' central station ' seen on a tram 
fixed itself in my mind and I asked pathetically for the 
central station. I shall never forget leaving Rotterdam 
in the red glare of the setting sun ; it ht up the gables 
and roofs of the old houses like fire, and, as the train 
ran along the flat country to the Hook, the yellow 
afterglow shone through the mist that crept over the 
lowlands to the sea ; the beauty suited my mood. 
I had had a splendid tour, I was feeling superlatively 
well, and I was going home, which to me is the best 
part of every tramp abroad. On my return home I 
received the following very interesting letter from my 
friend with whom I had travelled. We had made 
inquiries at all the places where we camped about the 
habits, wages, and general condition of the peasants. 
At one village the monthly nurse, a most superior 
intelligent woman, told us ' Here we have little ilkiess, 
I hardly ever need a doctor to help me in my work, 
the people Hve simply, no meat except bacon on Sun- 
days ; they work hard and are healthy and contented. 



AUGUST 253 

My dear Ethel, — 

Since we left you we are having a most 
interesting time — not camping, but staying with 
German cousins in a Schloss in the middle of the 
Eichsfeld, an agricultural district sixty miles south 
of Hanover. The land is entirely arable, with the usual 
forests (do you know that one-fourth of Germany is 
forest ?). My cousin tells me that forestry pays 
better than corn-land and that every year he clears £300 
from the sale of the wood. In England it only pays its 
expenses. Near the castle there are numbers of cherry 
trees, and I am told that in a good year a tree will make 
£1 to £1 5s. (the fruit of the tree is sold as it stands). 
The Baron is going to plant another two thousand. 
The birds hardly touch the fruit ; is it because there 
are so few birds or because there are so many trees ? 
I was interested to see that the gardeners are all women 
and they get 9s. per week; one woman has worked 
there for twenty years and is quite happy and satisfied 
with her wages, on which she keeps herself. My host 
told me that a female servant's wages are £15, and if 
you want a very good cook you must pay £25. He also 
told me that he could send any of his indoor servants to 
work in the fields — to hoe turnips or to help in the 
harvest and that they would not think of refusing — 
indeed, that they would enjoy it. All the household 
washing is done by the servants — ^not that there is a 
laundry-maid but the housemaids and cook all lend a 
hand. The figure which perhaps interests me most is 
that of the manservant, Weber. He waits at table in 
white gloves and looks immaculate; he joins in the 
conversation at meals and gives his advice, which is 
always followed. He points out very politely when 



254 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

the ' Herrschaft ' are in the wrong. When any honoured 
guest arrives it is Weber -who goes to the station to meet 
them, looking every inch a smart coachman. When the 
larder is empty, it is Weber who shoots the wild roe ; 
he is a first-rate shot. It is he who is the working 
bailiff on the home farm, and when one watches him 
throwing manure into a cart or stooks into a barn 
(for the corn is always put in a barn) one would think 
he had done nothing else all his life. But this is not 
all. I met him once on an open space near the castle, 
drilling about thirty men, all old soldiers in the village, 
who assemble from time to time. On this occasion 
they met to fire shots over the grave of a dead comrade. 
Weber is the captain of this little band and does it 
to perfection and with soldier-like precision. He was 
more than kind and attentive to me and my children, 
and thanked me most gratefully when I pressed 2s. 
into his hand on my departure. I must not forget 
to tell you that the cart-horses and the carriage-horses, 
all equally well groomed, are kept in the same stables and 
in busy times the carriage-horses take their share of 
farm-work. My cousin tells me that all the people in 
the village are freeholders and that a man and his 
family can live on ten acres and have every necessity. 
Of course their tastes are of the simplest — grey bread 
(so superior to our horrible white bakers' bread), 
potatoes, schmalz or lard from their own pig, and small 
round strong cheeses, flavoured with caraway seeds, 
and sold for Is. 2d. each, form their nourishment. The 
people in the villages all look prosperous, and my cousin 
tells me he does not know of one case of poverty in the 
district, over which he is magistrate, comprising some 
thirty villages. There is in every case a sufficiency. 



AUGUST 255 

The children attend school from 7 a.m. to 1 p.m. and 
are free the rest of the day to help on the land (this holds 
good only in summer) ; and one repeatedly saw whole 
families, including the mother and the baby, going into 
the fields in the little roughly-made cart drawn by the 
family cow, who, when she is not being milked, is earning 
her living ploughing or carting. This part of Eichsfeld 
is Eoman Catholic and the people are most devout. My 
cousin told me that on one occasion he was sent for 
by a dying man who said : ' Before I die, I should like 
to confess a great wrong which I did you — I took two 
badgers from your woods as I wanted the fat to cure 
my cough.' The people have the greatest faith in 
the fat of badgers — much as the people in the midlands 
prize goose-grease. On another occasion, when he was 
sitting on the terrace, an old woman came to him and 
said : ' Do you remember, Herr Major, that twenty years 
ago die Frau Baronin lost £20 on the road ? I found it 
and we have used it, but it has never brought me or my 
husband any luck, so, though it has gone long ago, I 
have saved up the same sum — ^with the interest due — 
and here it is.' My cousin took his money but re- 
turned her the interest, at which she exclaimed : ' Do you 
mean it ? Am I really to keep it for my own ? ' Nor 
could she have been more delighted had he presented 
her with £100. I think one reason why there is no 
poverty is because the people work harder — ^the women 
as well as the men — also because their tastes are 
simpler, they do not require butcher's meat twice a 
day (consequently their health is better), and last, but 
not least, they own the land, and to quote Arthur 
Young in his interesting account of Prance before the 
Eevolution : ' If a man owns a piece of bare rock, 



256 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

he will induce something to grow on it.' There are 
some big properties in the eastern part of Germany, 
but, speaking generally, each peasant has his own 
piece of land and house on which he can live 
comfortably. This is very interesting in these days 
when we hear so much of those who want work. 

This all sounds very superior to the condition of 
our country, but there is, no doubt, another side to the 
picture. With regard to the small holders owning 
their land, one difficulty in England is that so many 
families have members abroad, sons in Australia 
and Canada, and when the father dies there is no one 
to carry on the little farm, and selling it is expensive 
and complicated, and yet money is wanted to divide 
among the children. In countries where the people 
still live all their lives in one place, and are content to 
do so, owning land is naturally their idea of happiness, 
but we do not want in England the type of peasant- 
proprietor they have in France. 

This is the wonderfully- feehng little poem of 
Masefield's that was the subject of much discussion 
last time I was at Woodlands. I seize on everything 
that preaches what I admire so much — the love, the 
reverence children owe to their mother, and I think 
that gratitude, not to the mother directly but because 
of the mother's endurance and tender care, to all 
women, should be put before boys as a high ideal. 

E. C. 

In the dark womb where I began 
My mother's life made me a man. 
Through all the mouths of human birth 
Her beauty fed my common earth. 
I cannot see, nor breathe, nor stir. 
But through the death of some of her. 



AUGUST 257 

Down in the darkness of the grave 
She cannot see the life she gave, 
For all her love she cannot tell 
Whether I use it ill or well. 
Nor knock at dusty doors to find 
Her beauty dusty in the mind. 

If the grave's gates could be undone, 
She would not know her little son, 
I am so grown. If we should meet 
She would pass by me in the street, 
Unless my soul's face let her see 
My sense of what she did for me. 

What have I done to keep in mind 
My debt to her and womankind 7 
What woman's happier life repays 
Her for those months of wretched days ? 
For aU my worthless body leeched 
Fre Birth's releasing hell was reached ? 

What have I done, or tried, or said. 
In thanks to that dear woman dead ? 
Men triumph over women still. 
Men trample woman's rights at wUl, 
And man's lust roves the world untamed ; 
grave ! keep shut, lest I be shamed. 

CUCUMBER SOUP 

Take a medium-sized cucumber, cut in dice, and 
boil nearly all in some vegetarian stock, boil the 
remainder in salted water till tender, and strain. 
Pass the soup through a hair sieve, then thicken with 
a little flour, a piece of butter the size of a walnut, a 
httle cream, and bring to a boil; simmer for a short 
time and add the strained cucumber to the soup and 
serve. 

BEETROOT SOUP 

Put three medium-sized beets in an earthenware 
baking- dish with a little water to cover them over 



258 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

closely and bake slowly for three hours, add more 
boiling water as it is absorbed. When cooked, peel 
the beetroot and cut up small with a head of- celery, 
put it into a stewpan with a pint of milk and a pint of 
water, simmer gently till tender, rub through a fine 
sieve, add a Uttle butter or cream, thicken if necessary ; 
heat up and serve. 

VEGETARIAN SOUP 

Pull to pieces four cabbage lettuces and one cos 
lettuce, a handful of sorrel, put them in a stewpan 
with tarragon and chervil and two shced cucumbers 
and two ounces of butter. Place over a hot fire, stir 
occasionally till very httle hquid remains, add two 
ounces of flour and stir weU in, add three quarts of 
milk and a quart of shelled peas and boil gently for 
half an hour. 

pvbSe of vegetables 

Peel and cut up finely three onions, three young 
turnips, one carrot and four potatoes, put all into a 
fireproof earthenware pot with a bunch of parsley and a 
half pound of butter. Shake all over a hot fire for 
ten minutes, stir in one ounce of whole-meal flour, add 
five pints of mUk, stir aU until boiling, then simmer 
slowly till cooked, rub through a sieve. 

SPINACH AS PREPARED IN ITALY 

Throw the leaves into boiling water well salted, 
let them boil five minutes, drain them on a sieve, put 
them under a cold tap and wash away the salt, rub 
them through a fine sieve and put them back in a stew- 
pan with some milk, a small pinch of flour, a piece of 



AUGUST 259 

butter, and stir continually with a wooden spoon to 
prevent burning ; it should be quite soft, not at all dry. 

FRENCH BEANS 
(French recipe) 

Wash and string the beans without cutting them, 
shake them in butter for ten minutes, add a little salt 
and parsley and cook well covered up till tender ; 
just before serving mix apart an egg beaten up in a 
little cream, pour on the beans and serve. 

STEWED CUCUMBER 

Take a large cucumber and peel it. Cut it into 
rings half an inch thick. Take out the seeds. Parboil 
it in a Uttle salt water and very Uttle carbonate of 
soda. Strain when tender and add two tablespoonfuls 
of thick cream, the juice of half a lemon, salt to taste, 
serve either as a garnish or a vegetable. 

pubSe of green peas 

Shell a pint of rather old peas, boil them in a Httle 
water with a pinch of bicarbonate of soda and a Uttle 
green mint. Strain and pass through a iine sieve. 
Place in a stewpan with one ounce of butter and a 
tablespoonful of thick cream. Make very hot and 
serve. Broad beans or carrots can be cooked in the 
same way. 

VEGETABLE MARROW A L'ESPAGNOLE 

One vegetable marrow, two large tomatoes, one 
ounce of butter, one onion, half a piat of water. Slice 
the onion and two large tomatoes, fry them in a little 
butter. When they are cooked put in the marrow cut 

s2 



26o POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

into nice square pieces. Moisten mth a little hot 
water, add salt, let the whole stew gently till the 
marrow is cooked. Serve hot. Milk makes the dish 
nicer, but care must be taken that it does not burn. 



STEWED LETTUCE 

Boil two old lettuces with salt till quite tender, then 
put them iu cold water. Cut them up not very small 
and put them in a stewpan with two tablespoonfuls 
of cream and a bit of butter. Serve round a wall of 
mashed potatoes. 

TOMATO MACARONI 

Boil some macaroni very soft, drain, and then make 
the following sauce : Take half a dozen ripe tomatoes, 
slice them, squeeze out the seeds and put them, with a 
minute piece of mace, into a stewpan without any water 
and let them simmer slowly till quite dissolved, then 
pass them through a hair sieve, beat them with a piece 
of butter, add the macaroni well drained, and cook 
together for a few minutes. 

PETIT POIS A L'ALLEMANDE 

Take a quart of smaU fresh green peas. Put them 
in a saucepan with two lettuces chopped very fine, a 
piece of fresh butter the size of an egg, a little salt, nut- 
meg, a piece of sugar the size of a nut, a whole onion 
and a httle very good stock. Boil all these ingredients 
together for one hour, then take out the onion, and at 
the moment of serving the dish mix in a teaspoonful of 
flour and a little fresh butter. Serve very hot. 



AUGUST 261 

POTATOES A LA LY0NNAI8E 

Use the most waxy potatoes you can get. Boil 
them, and when cold cut them into slices with a 
cutter and saute them in clarified butter to which 
you have added a little oil. Then cut up fine an onion 
previously blanched in boiling water and fry it in 
butter to a golden brown. Immediately before 
serving mix the onion with the potatoes, add a little 
chopped parsley ; serve scalding hot. 

EOG OUTLETS 

Melt one ounce of butter in a saucepan and stir in 
two tablespoonfuls of flour, add gradually one cup of 
milk, stir till it thickens, season with onion juice, 
add three hard-boiled eggs coarsely chopped, two 
tablespoonfuls of cooked spaghetti and chopped parsley. 
Set it to cool. When very cold and set, form into 
cutlets and fry. 

RISOTTO ALLA MILANESE 

Cut up an onion and cook it with one and a half 
ounces of butter ; when browned put in one pound 
of unpolished rice and add enough stock to cook the 
rice. Before taking it from the fire add one and a half 
ounces of butter and some grated Parmesan cheese. 



SEPTEMBEB 

Herbaceous Veronicas — ^A Volume of Sonnets — ^Two Motor Tours 
— September in Shetland — ^Autumn Work in the Garden — A 
Builder's Yard — Perennials from Seed — Eremurus — A Bonfire — 
Vegetable Recipes. 

I AM staying at my favourite east -coast garden where 
I have learnt so much from a first-rate gardener ; but 
the high winds prevent their growing many things 
which dq well at home. 

I was so dehghted to get you safe home and to see 
how you enjoyed your first night in an English bed, and 
that it was in my home. Do you know I have fussed 
a good deal more about you than I intended, and it is 
so useless fussing over what is other people's pleasure, 
especially in these days when it seems to the old they 
do such very strange things, leaving a comfortable 
home to sleep on the ground in a tiny tent, wet or dry, 
for three weeks. I hope I shan't live to see you in an 
aeroplane, but one never knows ! Don't laugh and think 
me more of a quack than ever, but I do want to 
recommend to you a mysterious black grease which I 
have found quite especially useful for all those trouble- 
some little minor ailments which more or less affect 
gouty people, chilblains, colds, pains, &c. Now I 
am going on like the famous advertisement which 
professed to cure everything from ' Bunions to Bald- 
ness.' The chemists Steele & Marsh, at Bath, sell the 
' I/^ukion No. 2 (Evans),' as it is called, in pots at Is. 

262 



SEPTEMBER 263 

or 2s. It professes to be made from Wintergreen (Oleum 
Gaultheriae), distilled from the leaves of Gauliheria 
frocumbens. It contains at least 90 per cent., often 
more, of methyl salicylate. What makes it so black I 
do not know, but I can certainly say it is worthy of a 
trial in spite of its dirty colour. 

The herbaceous veronicas are far too little grown, 
but they have great qualities. Curiously enough, Sutton, 
in his seed list, only catalogues the common blue early 
Speedwell V. sficata. Kobinson's 'EngUsh Flower 
Garden,' on the contrary, has a fine list of them — ^there 
are blue, white, and pink varieties. F. gentianoides is 
the earliest to flower that I know, flowering in May, with 
grey or white flowers, and one variety has variegated 
leaves ; all are worth growing. V. prostrata and V. 
repens are both useful for edging and to grow down a 
moist wall. F. sficata flowers in June, is over a 
foot and a half high, white and pink varieties all travel 
well and'last long in water, which is a rare quaUty in 
summer flowers. V. vwginica flowers in July, grows 
three to four feet high ; they are deficient in colour, so 
the white one is the most satisfactory to grow. 

A volume of sonnets has just come out, by my 
niece Judith Lytton ; I hke them immensely but I 
am not sure that you will. They seem rather to belong 
to my day than to these later Georgian days with 
their rejection, as it seems to me, of Love's power, the 
real love that can and will ever exist between men 
and women. She is, as you know, Byron's grand- 
daughter and Wilfrid Blunt's daughter ; this in itself 
makes these sonnets very interesting to me ; there is a 
slight echo of her father's ' Love Sonnets of Proteus,' 
a httle book much loved by me in the days long ago. 



264 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

The book is called ' Love in a Mist ' — a pretty title. 
It is dedicated to her husband, Neville Lytton, and the 
initial letters are designed by him. It is charmingly 
got up and rather a work of imagination and sympathy 
than autobiographical : published by Herbert & Daniel, 
Bond Street, at 7s. 6d. It seems a shame where aU is 
good to quote one, especially as there are two sonnets 
under one name. 

THE WASTE OF LOVE 

Why have you sought my love 7 

It cannot be ! 
Your way is not my way, nor may I yield 
Aught to a tenderness which cannot shield 
Its soul from destiny, nor set me free. 
Your life and mine are linked unequally 
As fire and cloud, my heart of hearts is filled 
With aU another's soul, and I have sealed 
The bond of Love's remorseless usury. 

And yet you love ! How shall I atone ? 
Calm as the sea upon a windless night, 
I know your love. Ah ! leave the words unsaid. 
We both must weep in silence and alone. 
For how shall I your generous faith requite 
Or give this stone to one who asks for bread ? 

Last year I went a motor tour along the east 
coast of Suffolk and on into Norfolk ; this year I went 
with the same friends through south-west Suffolk to the 
borders of Essex. I will speak of last year first. We 
spent about a week in the car, sleeping at hotels at 
night, but having our vegetarian luncheons by the side 
of the roads out of a basket. Vegetarian food is so 
clean and easy to eat, and to have got rid for ever of 
that unwholesome food, the meat sandwich, is such a 
comfort, and this plan gave us all the day before us. 



SEPTEMBER 265 

How interesting is this return to the roads that 
motoring has given us and how differently one sees the 
country from going by rail, which has been all the travel- 
ling of my lifetime ! We had not good weather — dull, 
cold and sunless — but the car was a large closed one and 
it did not actually rain ; but we had no sunsets or fine 
effects. Very soon after leaving Felixstowe, we passed 
through a village and I noticed a public house with the 
old sign the ' Elephant and Castle.' I murmured, 
half to myself, ' I wonder what was the origin of that 
sign ! ' Our travelling companion quickly answered, 
' Don't you know ? It comes from " the Infanta of 
Castile," the ill-fated Katherine, the first wife of 
Henry VIIL' This is as curious a change as ' Goat 
and Compasses ' for ' God encompasses us.' I saw in 
a garden close to the coast some fine specimens of the 
Japanese wineberry {Bubus phoenicolasius). I have 
bought one, for in that situation it was a charming 
plant, the pure air and the sun by the sea are so 
favourable to plant life, at least for everything that 
can withstand wind — ^that is the gardener's trial by 
the sea. To go on with our last year's tour of Suffolk, — 
we saw a great deal but not one quarter of what there is 
to be seen ; the consciences of the rich people of the 
middle ages must have pricked them very much to have 
caused them to build so many and such splendid 
churches, mostly erected in the sixteenth century, 
though many were on older foundations. Blytheburgh 
is now quite a small poor village but with a most 
beautiful and large church — supposed not to be earlier 
than the fifteenth century. Part of the floor had 
retained its old bricks, placed two one way and two the 
other, which was very pretty and unusual as it seemed 



266 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

to me. One night we slept at Norwich, arriving 
after dark. The next morning was damp and gloomy ; 
we spent two hours in the cathedral. Part of it 
appeared to me the finest Norman I had ever seen ! 
but oh ! how dif&cult it is to carry architecture in one's 
memory, one beautiful thing squeezes out another, 
even if the recollection is stiU there. They say Durham 
is finer, but that I have never seen since I was quite a 
child. AU the old glass as usual was knocked out by 
Cromwell's soldiers, noisy in the doing, easy of execu- 
tion, pleasing to the conscience as a destruction of 
images, which is what they hated most. The inside 
of the Cathedral is spoilt, as much as it can be, by a 
huge gilt organ stretched right across the transept 
over the rood screen. I have never seen it so placed 
in any church and it appeared to me to be cruelly 
ugly. The cloisters were very beautiful, but it was 
dark and damp and one wondered how they had ever 
been built in a chmate hke ours. The Bishop was away, 
but his chaplain showed us all over the Palace ; the 
garden was full of large trees and damp and gloomy. 
Just outside the gate is the famous Grammar School 
and, in memory of Nelson having been educated there, 
in front of the school is placed a statue of the little 
great man ; it is but an indifferent statue though better 
than nothing. In that interesting book, ' Lady Shelley's 
Memoirs,' there is a terrible show-up of the change that 
came over Nelson's moral nature after he came home 
from Naples and was under the infatuation of Lady 
Hamilton. Before he went away he was a most attentive 
and lover-like husband ; on his return everything was 
changed. Lady Shelley says : ' He treated his wife, for 
whom at parting he had professed such deep affection. 



SEPTEMBER 267 

with every mark of dislike, and even of contempt.' 
He evidently had a simple boyhke nature and 
could not play the game of pretend, and so behaved 
more unkindly than many a less good man of the 
world would have done ; this was naturally no con- 
solation to the poor wife, and he put ' love ' so much 
above duty that he thought it no sacrilege to take 
the Sacrament with his lady-love in proof to the world 
of the innocence of their relations. I have known 
others to do the same, though such conduct is not 
sanctioned by the Cathohc Church. 

We got tired and did not really half see Norwich ; 
we did not go to the Castle nor did we see the site, 
which probably was only sentimentally worth seeing, 
of the house where Sir Thomas Browne lived and wrote 
his famous ' Eeligio Medici.' What we ought to have 
seen is the statue erected to his memory and unveiled 
in 1905. We took to our car and went on to Cromer, 
which, as a fashionable sea resort, rather disappointed 
me, but all those places are nothing without the Sun 
God ; the open sea is fine and I did what I used often to 
do when younger and seldom do now, jumped out of my 
bed to see the sunrise, which was beautiful — straight 
out of the sea. The sumise, which seems to me an 
answer to the cry ' Light, more light,' is, I think, so 
wonderfully impressive and invigorating. Eonsard 
felt it when he wrote these lines that have always 
appealed to me : 

Soleil, source de feu, haute merveille roude ! 
Soleil, rame, I'eaprit, I'oeil, la beauty du monde, 
Tu as beau te lever de grand matin, et choir 
Bien tard dedans la mer, tu ne saurais rien voir 
Plus beau que notre France. 

The sky soon clouded over and settled into the 



268 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

usual dull grey. On our way from Norwich we stopped 
at Blickling, which I had seen before but which was well 
worth seeing again — a beautiful house and a lovely 
garden and the home of Anne Bolejni's youth, and it 
is supposed on good grounds the place of her birth. 
It was sad to see the ravages made by the floods this 
year (1912) when there was in these Eastern counties 
a storm, and six inches of rain fell in an hour. The 
garden slopes towards the house, and the water rose 
in the lower rooms to two feet, to the destruction of 
books and furniture and the misery of the housekeeper. 
The only thing that struck me particularly in the 
garden this time, for the whole arrangement of the 
garden is lovely, was a most magnificent bed of 
Hydrangea paniculata ; the flowers were beginning 
to turn pink and the foliage to bronze, and the effect 
on the slope of the hill was very effective. They were 
evidently cut back to the stool every spring, which 
strengthens them for flowering though it is not so 
graceful as when the plant is allowed to grow into a 
bush, which it does well in a moist situation in half 
shade, and a fine specimen is to be seen at the Horti- 
cultural Gardens at Wisley. In the new ' Life ' of the 
painter Watts, by his wife, there is a charming allusion 
to his staying at BUckling in 1862. She says : ' Signer 
[Watts] was deeply interested in the subject of the 
portrait he was painting of Lord Lothian ; impressed as 
he was by the beauty of his character, rare intelligence, 
and the rich promise of a young life never to be fulfilled ; 
for he knew he was painting a doomed man. All that 
medical skiU, and all that absolute devotion could do, 
was to be of no avail ; and the tragedy of it seemed 
heightened by its passing in this poetically beautiful 



SEPTEMBER 269 

home. Life truly in flower at its best and loveliest ; 
and so it was that the sight of " Death inexorable 
and love impotent " came before his eyes.' Later, in 
the church hard by, we saw the beautiful monument, 
executed by Watts, to this young Lord Lothian, a 
recumbent figure in a long straight cloak, slightly 
recalling monuments of ecclesiastics in the churches 
of Italy. On our way to Hunstanton, a charming 
little sea resort with an excellent inn, we saw several 
other churches and two country houses but nothing 
that was very remarkable ; one old church had a 
belfry at one end and a tower at the other to hold a 
beacon, for the guidance of seafarers, at the top. 
Hunstanton seems modern ; it faces west, the Wash in 
front and the long low line of the Lincolnshire coast in 
the distance. The Northern summer sunsets here must 
be lovely. I should Uke to find myself here again in 
July. After tea we drove on to King's Lynn, which in 
the twilight seemed an unpromising old place with an 
inn so unattractive that we turned round again and went 
back to Hunstanton to the charming inn close to the 
sea. In the morning, though still cold and grey, we 
found King's Lynn most extremely interesting, one 
of those places which circumstances cause gently but 
surely to die, and so remain for years unaltered with 
only the pathetic memory of its former greatness. 
It was ruined by the railways ; before that they say 
it was the largest port in England after London ; by 
waterways and roadways it distributed its goods all 
over the Midlands and the Northern counties. Its 
decay has preserved its old character ; it is like a Dutch 
town. The old house still stands which belonged to 
the Hanse Towns league — all indicate the days when 



270 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

ships from Flanders and , the Baltic found their way 
to Lynn. In old days the town was so rich they did 
not care what they spent in churches, and we saw two 
magnificent ones — one built by the same man, Herbert 
de Lozinga, who built Norwich Cathedral. Here, 
also, are the two largest brasses in England ; they 
came from Holland in 1346. In our tour nothing 
was so interesting to me as King's Lynn. In the Town 
Hall is preserved a most beautiful rare sUver gilt 
enamelled goblet, the workmanship of which is almost 
unique. The cup is so beautiful it might have come 
from the hand of Benvenuto Cellini ; it and the sword 
were, tradition says, given by King John, after granting 
many charters and privileges to Lynn, just before he 
crossed the Wash, where he lost all his baggage and 
nearly his life. The experts say the cup cannot be older 
than the time of Edward III. Here, also, is the Eed 
Book of Lynn, containing 150 leaves with entries — ^the 
earliest in date being 1309. This is said to be the oldest 
paper book in existence. Lynn was a favourite town 
with the Kings ; it was so rich it gave lots of money for 
wars &c. It was not tiU the changes in the episcopal 
property that it was called Lynn Begis (King's Lyim). 
In this same Town Hall there are some interesting 
portraits, especially one given by Charles II., after his 
restoration, of his father Charles I. ; it looks older than 
most of his portraits and has a distinct look of JamesIL, 
who was of course aHve, and to show it was a posthumous 
portrait the crown rolls on the ground. A portrait, 
too, of George III., different from the usual ones, and 
younger ; it must have been good for painters when 
Kings gave away oil portraits of themselves instead 
of the signed photographs they give to-day. I got 



SEPTEMBER 271 

glimpses of the river and barges — very like Holland — 
which I longed to sketch ; the whole place eminently 
picturesque and unspoilt. Will the turn of Fortune's 
wheel ever restore its former wealth ? — the unexpected 
so often happens. We went on -through the grounds of 
Sandringham, which are lovely, miles of wood and wild 
common gorse and heather, &c. 

The tour this year was quite the other way, working 
south and west to the very borders of Essex. It 
lasted five days, from Monday till Saturday, and was 
in some ways more interesting and in others less so. 
We were the same party of three, but my hostess 
had arranged we should stay with kind acquaintances 
of hers, who without exception received us most 
cordially, but we were not able to get to bed quite so 
early as we did when lodging in hotels. The churches 
were innumerable and very fine on the whole, perhaps 
less restored than last year, all built during the richest 
time, when the Catholic Flemish weavers and cloth- 
workers came over. We went through Ipswich, 
but did no sight-seeing there, as I have often been 
there before. It is well situated on the Orwell ; it 
was apparently but a small settlement in the Eoman 
tinie and its most interesting historical association 
is that Cardinal Wolsey was born there in 1471. His 
enemies used to say he was the son of a butcher. This, 
apparently, was not true, as his father was a rich 
burgess. How much has his fame rested on the 
building of Hampton Court and the wonderful speech 
Shakespeare puts into his mouth, a most interesting 
type of the passing away of Eoman Catholic medieval 
Christianity ! I never drive from here to Hampton 



272 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

Court without thinking how he rode the narrow lane 
from his Palace, leaving all his worldly grandeur, 
to take refuge in the monastery by the river Mole at 
Esher. The first time we stopped was at Heigham 
Church, which is not especially remarkable or beauti- 
ful. I am sure no two old ladies ever jumped in 
and out of a car so often in five days as we did. The 
weather was dull and chilly and it soon began actually 
to rain. After visiting two beautiful old private 
houses, we came to Sudbury, which has two splendid 
old churches and was the birthplace of the painter 
Gainsborough, and no one can fail to recognise the 
Gainsborough country from the pastoral landscapes 
which surround the town and reaches of the river Stour. 
Lately a handsome statue has been erected to his 
memory. I like to see memorials to those who deserve 
them, out in the open of their native town, not buried 
away in a churchyard or even in a church. After 
that we went on to Long Melford Hall, full of the most 
interesting curios of all kinds. The great-great-grand- 
father of the present owner was a distinguished Admiral, 
and, cruising in the Pacific, he caught a Spanish galleon 
which was taking home Chiaese treasures ordered 
for the churches and monasteries of Spain. He brought 
home the galleon and its contents, amongst other 
things a number of lovely ivory ' Bambiaos ' in various 
attitudes and two or three Virgins about two feet 
high, carved out of the fine ivory tusks. An immense 
quantity of old Chinese china, in every room, must 
be of priceless value. It is so interesting that the 
exact date is known of everything. Later, the 
poor Admiral was lost at sea, possibly murdered 
by savages and nothing was known of his end. No 



SEPTEMBER 273 

wonder that CathoKc countries called the English 
pirates and robbers. The Protestant English cared 
nothing for the Pope's Bull, intended to settle quarrels 
between Spain and Portugal, which said that all 
that was east of the imaginary line down the Atlantic 
was to belong to Portugal, and all that was west was 
to belong to Spain. In the morning we visited the 
' Gainsborough Silk Weaving Company,' lovely hand- 
weaving in a comparatively poor and humble shed 
of a building, no machinery. Here was woven the 
velvet for the King's Coronation Cloak and the beautiful 
white satin worn by the Queen ; they have difficulty 
in getting girls and men to do the work though they 
give good wages. It must be tiring and monotonous 
work, requiring great attention without interest — a 
curious remnant of old-world industry carried on 
from the middle ages. Lavenham Church is, I think, 
the finest we visited. It is well placed and an unusually 
grand and noble church ; a simple and massive tower, 
the finest in the country ; curious carvings inside. The 
de Veres were Lords of the Manor from the Conquest ; 
the church was erected between 1480 and 1530. 
Lavenham was a place of former importance and 
was famous during the fifteenth and sixteenth cen- 
turies for its blue and woollen cloths. All or nearly 
all the churches we have seen are disfigured by hideous 
tile pavings, especially round the altar — badly designed 
yellow and brown tiles : oh for the marble of Italy ! 
but plain bricks weU laid are far prettier than tiles. 
Everywhere, of course, the old glass had been destroyed 
by the Puritans, their kind of useless destruction 
was so like the modern methods of the suffragettes 
to-day. The town retains a lovely old small Guildhall, 



274 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

which is being just preserved by its owner but 
which wUl be a ruin soon if not restored. In theory 
I admit restoration is wrong, but I think we are bound 
to maintain, for those that come after, all that is left ; 
and so restoration becomes a matter of degree. We 
lunched at Clare and there I began to feel a little 
more at home as it is not far from Stoke College, 
a place my brother-ia-law. Lord Loch, bought some 
years ago ; it is let now. We lunched in a lovely 
old house, built amongst the ruins of a beautiful old 
Priory, and we came in for a meeting of the Archaeo- 
logical Society of Sussex and heard a lecture which, 
I am sorry to say, has gone out of my memory. 
The church is not very remarkable, chiefly Per- 
pendicular and containing good woodwork. We went 
especially to see a modern coloured-glass window 
by Powell, which is much above the average of 
such memorials. I remarked that in many of 
these Suffolk churches, with handsome tombs, there 
were very often two wives ; so frequently the women 
seemed to die young, probably in childbirth. It 
is the contrary now; as a rule it is quite to be 
noticed in families how women outlive their husbands. 
We drove by the palings of Stoke Col;lege, now my 
nephew's place. It became the property of Sir Gervase 
Elwes in 1660 and remained in the family till my 
brother-in-law bought it ; before that it was a Priory 
or College. A beautiful river passes through the 
grounds, and old walls and ruins add much to its 
picturesqueness. We stayed at one more old house, 
lovely to a degree, but what made the most impression 
on me was a drawing in chalks by Vandyke, a portrait 
of himself, and given by him to King Charles I. It 



SEPTEMBER 275 

waa, I think, the most perfectly beautiful drawing 
of the kind I have ever seen, not life-size, but most 
living. On our way back, going to Bury St. Edmunds, 
we stopped at Kiddington and saw the most untouched 
and unrestored church we have seen this tour. The 
old brick pavements were there and some fine 
Bamardiston tombs. The Jacobean pulpit was there 
and a real example of what was called the three-decker 
— the clerk, the reading desk, and the pulpit ; few of these 
are left in England now. The day was wet and dull 
and the village small, and the cottages seemed quite unfit 
for human habitation — hardly any windows, and what 
there were looked as if they did not open. The children 
were pale and underfed and what wonder ! the wages, 
I was told, were thirteen shillings a week. We lunched 
in the car that day and reached Bury St. Edmunds 
about three o'clock and put up at the Angel Hotel, 
just opposite the old Abbey Gate : a very handsome 
specimen of decorative work finished about 1377. 
It was the chief entrance to the monastery, one of 
the largest and richest in England. Only fragments 
of ruins remain of the famous Abbey Church, but a 
Norman tower and two other large churches which are 
close together ; in one, St. Mary's, are buried the remains 
of Mary, sister of Henry VIII., who for political reasons 
was made by Henry to marry the old King of France, 
Louis XII. She was little more than a child, and, 
fortunately for her, Louis shortly died and she came 
back and married her early love, Brandon, Duke 
of Suffolk. At the destruction of the Abbey Church 
her remains were brought to St. Mary's, and King 
Edward VII., seeing the place marked by only a flat 
stone within the altar rails, had a low white marble 

T 2 



276 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

edge put round it. We found there was considerable 
agitation which church was to be given to a new 
Bishop, who is to be made and to live at Ipswich and 
have his church here and so reduce the diocese of 
Norwich, which is supposed to be more work than 
one man can do efficiently. We had tea at a house 
two miles out of Bury St. Edmunds ; again found a 
rich museum of wonderful things. I was taken into 
a room to see an old and heavy tester over a French 
bed. I remarked, I do not know why, ' that it must 
have been just the sort of bed that the Due de Praslin 
brought down to suffocate his wife.' Our host turned 
on me in surprise and said : ' How very odd you should 
have made that remark, as the grandson of the 
unfortunate lady, the present Due de Choiseul Praslin, 
is staying here ; he will be in to tea.' It was fortunate 
indeed that he was not in the room, as I should have 
made the same remark. There was an excellent portrait 
of an Old Lady by AngeUca Kauffmann : it was beauti- 
fully painted, as her pictures always are ; I think 
she deserves more honour as the only woman ever 
elected a member of the Royal Academy. We tried 
to go into the gardens and to see the beautiful avenue 
of trees, but it was so wet we gave it up. The next 
day we saw two more old houses, one inhabited and 
magnificently furnished and richly restored, the 
other old and poor, but so beautifully situated on 
a high bit of ground with open views all round it. 
All the other places we visited were shut in with 
trees and shrubs and in very flat country. I begin 
to think the overwoodiness of England is spoiling 
the country ; forestry is not well managed, timber 
does not pay to cut down ; formerly it was used for fire- 



SEPTEMBER 277 

wood before railways brought the coal. This house 
was still surrounded by the moat, filled with water 
fed from the roof, the area of which measured two 
acres. In this house the caretaker was a dear old 
man. He showed us a box with clothes in it said to 
have belonged to Charles I. — the owner in the time of 
the Great Eebellion having been a prominent Eoyalist. 
This was our last visit and that Saturday afternoon 
we returned to Felixstowe. 

M. T. Earle. 

Notes from Redhazel. 

Sept. 1st. — ^Last year I spent part of September in 
Shetland. I was told I should find neither trees nor gar- 
dens, but I found both, though all vegetatiions, like the 
animals, exceedingly dwarf. The trees planted to afford 
protection to the gardens were put very close together, 
and, though only seven feet high, they were better than 
nothing — growing shelters break the wind more satis- 
factorily than walls. The wUd heather is very low 
and close-growing ; the yellow flag was over, but I saw 
the thick growth of leaves, and wild thrift flourishes 
in all the sheltered places. The kale that the crofters 
use is a special kind which turns the most beautiful 
grey and purple. It makes a lovely patch of colour 
in front of the crofters' dwellings. One garden I saw 
at Hilswick was a revelation as to what can be done 
with care, even in such a wind-swept place that the 
plants are literally blown out of the ground in ex- 
posed situations. This garden was walled, and, being 
on a level with the sea, was rather naturally favoured ; 
low hedges of elder were planted the full length, and 
vegetables and flowers were mixed all together, many 



278 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

different sorts of annuals were in full bloom and had 
been out since July, eating peas were still being picked, 
mignonette and sweet scabious were very good, and 
candytuft grew to a great size, red double daisies were 
still blooming. The natives are, of course, of Norse 
origin and many of the words still in use are of that 
language. They had a wonderful physique, but a diet 
of salt fish and stewed tea has fast undermined their 
health, and their mode of living in tiny houses, with 
httle or no ventilation, together with the intermarrying 
which has gone on for many generations, is more than 
enough to account for consumption, insanity, and 
cancer, which three diseases are very prevalent in the 
islands. The hospital at Lerwick is full in the herring 
season of sailors of many nationalities who have met 
with accidents, and the matron has taught herself 
enough of the various languages spoken by the patients 
to be able to communicate with them. I had a little 
talk with the matron, and I was astonished at the 
amount of work she undertook. There are often 
twenty-one patients in the wards, and she gets little 
sleep, as she is obliged to be in the ward at night ; and 
sometimes for a week at a time in the busy fishing 
season she is not able to get one complete night in bed. 
Living as she does in such a wind-swept isolated place, 
I pictmied her spending her hohday at Glasgow or 
London, but to my surprise she told me she was going 
to have a real holiday, to which she was much looking 
forward, on a lighthouse at Fair Isle. The people are, 
to a certain extent, self-supporting, as they make their 
clothes from the wool of their own sheep, which is 
pulled in the autumn, not shorn, and they weave and 
spin in their own homes. They grow their Httle patches 



SEPTEMBER 279 

of oats, potatoes, and kale, and the fish is caught in 
summer and salted, stacked in cocks on the sea shore, 
smelHng too terribly in the warmth of the autumn 
sun. The colours of the people's clothes, the animals, 
and the vegetation is all much the same colour and very- 
beautiful in a subdued way, from tan to black, through 
many shades of brown, with an occasional vivid patch 
of purple in the clothes, and in the heather from which 
they get the dye. The people are extremely agreeable 
to talk to, but are very easily knocked up and have 
little pluck in iUness. The kitchen-maid at the house 
where I was staying was taken ill with a bihous attack, 
from the unaccustomed good food. She insisted on 
going home at once, and her sister remarked that 
she would do no more work that season. The coast 
is so much broken that no part of the island is farther 
than three miles from the coast, and on one road, 
motoring north, we were close to the Atlantic on one side 
and the North' Sea on the other ; this same broken 
outline makes the coast very grand, and the roads 
are on the high lands and follow the windings and 
enable one to realise the shape of the island almost 
as if one were in a balloon. The one fearful dis- 
advantage to the pleasure of any outdoor life is the 
almost incessant tearing wind. Conversation while 
walking or driviag is almost impossible and keeping on 
one's clothes is sometimes a difficulty. The journey of 
eighteen or more hours of more or less rough sea makes 
the island seem a long way off, but once there the 
pecuhar fascination of the place makes up for all dis- 
comforts endured in the getting there ; there can be 
few places in the British Islands where one can feel so 
near to Nature, and there are a largeness and grandeur 



28o POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

in the situation which hft one's thoughts and make all 
small worries and anxieties seem trivial and absurd. 

8rd. — To get back to my garden. On heavy- 
clay soil it is very difficult to plant out seedlings 
in wet weather. I found the soil to-day sticky and 
impossible, and yet there were small plants of corn 
salad crying out to be transplanted. I took a barrow 
to the yard where the different sorts of soil are kept, 
and mixed soot, mortar rubbish, and peat with a little 
dry soil from under a tree and spread this on the sur- 
face to be planted. As I made the holes for the seedlings 
with a small stick a little of the dry soil fell in and ran 
round the roots of each in a way that the wet soil 
would never have done. The wet weather enables 
me to move many things. Aubrietia is a difficult thing 
to move ; August is the best time but I was away. 
Some I saved last year and cut back hard after flower- 
ing is already six or eight inches round. I left it in 
good soil to make rapid growth and have now moved it 
to the sunk path to flower in the spring with its root 
room much restricted. I cut down some hollyhocks 
and cleared away sweet peas to-day ; seed-saving is 
rather risky so late in the year. I put in a dozen pots 
of geranium or rather pelargonium cuttings, scented 
and otherwise ; so few people grow ' Pretty PoUy,' 
the velvet-like filosum and the small round-leaved 
' Lady Scarborough,' and yet aU are so pretty. ' Clor- 
inda ' is a gem and such a strong grower. Large 
pieces of every sort of coarse-growing creeping plant 
can be transplanted this wet weather. I have chopped 
up some maiden pinks still in flower and planted them 
in the sunk path. I put in more cuttings under bell 
glasses : some of the old ones can be taken up and the 



SEPTEMBER 281 

glasses used for fresh cuttings. When cuttings look 
healthy and fresh and begin to grow after two months 
under a glass, it is quite safe to take it off if they are 
from hardy plants ; of course, tender things must be 
left protected for the winter. 

6th. — Still tying up and altering old ties. The 
roses on the house have grown very much, especially 
'Alester Stella Grey,' and have had to be nailed up three 
times this summer. ' Madame Alfred Carriere ' seems 
to get very blighted and dry in a corner by the porch. 
I have done it some good by pouring cold soapy water 
on to it from the landing window: one can do this 
sort of things in the country, going back to the days of 
the old Tuileries when the palace was drained in this 
way. Some creepers, like Ampelopsis, take care of 
themselves, but most creepers must be carefully 
watched as they soon get into a most unruly tangle, 
and if too close together will strangle one another. 
I went round the north side of the house to-day and, 
in spite of all the rain, I found two very dry spots to 
which I gave several buckets of water. All the annuals 
I sowed rather late on poor soil have done extremely 
well and there are big patches of ' Love-in-a-mist,' 
Larkspur, and Mallows. I think one of the most 
dif&cult things to know in the garden is when to water, 
and cuttings are about the most difficult to please 
of all one tries to cultivate. Those in pots can be left 
in the open in showery weather and take what they 
get and deal with it accordingly, but artificial watering 
is a different matter altogether, and withering from 
dryness or damping off from too much moisture are 
their two vices, and to steer between the two evils 
is very difficult. A slight sprinkle with a fine rose 



282 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

whenever the soil is very dry seems the safest course 
•with those in hot beds or under bell-glasses. Chrys- 
anthemums grow very quickly and soon outdistance 
their supports and have to be tied higher up the sticks. 
All the sweet pinks, Hke Mrs. Sinkins, will strike now if 
pulled to pieces and the small shoots stuck in the ground 
where they are wanted to flower, but they must never 
be allowed to get dry. Sand mixed with the soil will 
help them to take root quickly. 

8th. — I have been down in the village looking 
over the heaps of old stone and bricks in a builder's 
yard. There are majiy treasures, but everyone knows 
the value now of such things, and their weight add 
so much to the expense of using them. Nearly 
everything will strike now. I have been layering, 
dragging down pieces of Laurestinus and jasmine, and 
suchlike shrubs ; after making a slight cut I covered 
the branch with earth and a heavy stone. AH peren- 
nials that have gone to seed can be cut down and the 
seed of those you wish to increase sown at once. 
Seed that is just ripe is always the quickest to germinate. 
There is an odd belief in this part that anything will 
grow from seed under an apple-tree, and it was curiously 
verified in the case of the blue primrose. A man I 
knew sowed a potful and not one came up, he threw 
the soil away in disgust under an apple-tree, and in a 
very short time had dozens of tiny plants. To-day 
all the chrysanthemum plants have been looked over 
and disbudding done whenever three buds were 
together, taking off the small outside buds. A large 
clot of well-decayed manure is on each pot to keep the 
moisture and act as a liquid manure, when the pots are 
watered. I am not afraid of gales, as each plant is 



SEPTEMBER 283 

staked and a string attached to a stake in the earth 
at either end is wound round each stick in every pot. 
All the Michaelmas daisies are tied up and every flower 
not needed to go to seed picked from larkspurs, 
pentstemons, dahlias, and all plants that continue to 
bloom into the autumn. Everyone knows that sweet 
peas cease to bloom unless constantly picked, but 
few people connect the idea with other plants. I 
have had a fresh bag of hoof parings put in the liquid 
manure barrel, and the tub fiUed up with rain water 
and the drainage from the stables which goes in a 
cement tank and can be taken out in a bucket. The 
wallflower bed is too thick and every second plant has 
been taken up and planted elsewhere. The Brompton 
stocks are best planted at once where they are to flower 
or left till the spring, as two moves are bad for them. 
10th. — I am dividing and replanting as many things 
as possible. Many people never notice that plants 
put in late in the year do nothing till the following 
spring, and it requires to be a plant of robust 
constitution that can stand slugs, frost and damp 
while merely resting in the earth, so every day in 
September should be taken advantage of, and much 
can be done in the way of planting even as early as this. 
Preesias must be potted this month and sunk in 
coconut fibre ; do not cover the top of the pot 
and keep the pot moist. In buying fibre see that it 
is fibre and not peat-moss, which sticks together 
and is not nearly so nice for planting bulbs, as watering 
is more difficult, the moss resists the water and it runs 
off in a most irritating way. Cuttings of any extra 
good snapdragons, violas, and pentstemons can be put 
into sand out of doors under a bell-glass. Eose cuttings 



284 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

are best left until October, as they shrivel up in dry- 
weather. The beautiful Anchusa O'pal does not come 
true from seed, but cuttings can be taken now of any 
side-shoots. It is best to cut down any violas that 
were not attended to in July ; be quite brave and go 
right home to where the plant springs from the root, 
it will be green and bushy in October. I am thinning 
out Eampion to six inches apart and planting some 
in borders and the rockery ; it lasts so long in bloom 
it is well worth a good place. 

15th. — The weather now is making up for all the 
dull cold we had in June and July in Hampshire. 
There was some sun on most days, but nearer London 
the north-east wind veiled the land in a dull haze ; 
but anything is better than rain, as one can garden 
and play games in the dullest weather. I was much 
amused in the autumn of 1909, after a cold dripping 
season, to see in the paper that the defence made by 
a man in a breach of promise case, in which it was 
stated that he had promised to marry a girl in the 
summer, was that we had no summer. There is no 
doubt that the most economical way to grow perennials 
is from seed, provided you have a good seed ground, fine, 
fairly light soil, facilities for watering in dry weather, 
and an absence of the worst weeds. I have none of 
these advantages, but I am making a note of a few 
perennials that grow freely from seed ; few, of course, 
will make much show for the first few years, but ex- 
changing plants is always a joy, and the more variety 
one has to give away the more anxious wiU other 
people be to exchange. Adenophora lilifoUa is two 
feet high and has pale-blue bell flowers ; it Hkes good 
Ught soil. The herbaceous clematis, G. Davidiana, 



SEPTEMBER 285 

becomes a fine plant in two years. Geranium Traversi 
has silvery leaves and pink flowers, the growth is 
prostrate ; it is a fine plant for the rock-garden. Thalic- 
trum di/pterocarpum has mauve flowers and grows 
sometimes to the height of six feet ; most of the 
Thalidrums grow easily from seed. 

The Oriental Asphodels often excite great interest 
at flower shows, but very few gardens have any to show. 
They thrive admirably in deep rich soil, sandy loam is 
what they like with the addition of some cow manure ; 
once planted they should not often be disturbed, as the 
roots are very brittle. Autumn — late summer or early 
August or September — ^is the best time for planting ; 
they very much dislike stagnant moisture. The most 
tender parts are the very young flower buds, which 
should be protected with bracken in the spring. 
The leaves are very handsome, they lean over from 
their base and form a mighty plume. In their native 
home the flower season is followed by a long hot dry 
scorching summer and they should not be watered 
when they want to rest. Eremurus must not be choked 
or encroached upon ; they require light and space. 
The giants of the species are E. himalaicus, E. rohus- 
tus, and E. Elwesianus. The first throws up its first 
flower-stem eight to ten feet high in May. E. Olgae 
does not flower until July. 

20th. — Coming home late this evening, while nearly 
half a nule from home, I saw a glare in the sky in 
the direction of my house. I began wondering if 
my fire insurance really did cover everything and 
how long the fire-engine would take to come from 
Bishops Waltham. To my great relief, on getting 
nearer, I found it was a most splendid bonfire that was 



286 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

causing the glare and how I did enjoy it. I sat in the 
house at one of the front windows in the dark and 
watched the red and yellow flames darting into the air 
and the sparks dancing up and going out. I always 
feel, when I watch a hungry, eager fire, that there is in it 
a spirit of excitement and destruction so infectious 
that it is no wonder it has played so prominent a part 
in all riots and upheavals of civU life. The fierce joy 
of the light and the crackling, roaring sound inspires one 
with a feeling of irresponsibility and a wild longing to 
feed the flames with anythiag rather than let the passion 
of the monster die down, though many people, on the 
other hand, feel nothing but an intense fear and horror 
of the dangerous power of this destructive element. 

25. — The garden is very dry but the early 
morning heavy dews make planting quite easy. Of 
the six long beds the two on the outside are to 
be planted entirely with roses as they are full of 
herbaceous stuff, this means room must be found 
for a good deal elsewhere. It is a great mistake to 
take up all the plants in a bed at the same time, many 
treasures are lost in this way. I shall never forget 
visiting a garden once on a hot day in early October 
and seeing the contents of a large herbaceous border 
aU lying half withered on the ground ; they looked 
so worthless that the spirit to replant was nearly 
killed. I was reminded of furniture standing in the 
road the day of a move, how very shabby even the 
best looks under these circumstances. The way I 
am doing my borders is to take up all the plants that 
are out of bloom, Galegas, lupins, Delphiniums, &c., 
and finding places for them at once ; then I remake 
the square yard of ground from which I took them, 



SEPTEMBER 287 

and plant one or two roses according to the size of 
the space. A well-known rose-grower recommends 
a broth of clay and water and oowdung in a bucket, 
and dipping each root in it before planting ; the broth 
must be just thick enough to cling to the roots. Firm 
planting is a thing to be learnt, the thumb for seedlings 
and the foot for big plants and shrubs — always wear 
strong heavy boots to garden in for many reasons : 
first, to keep the feet warm and dry ; secondly, to 
protect the feet from stones and the dig of a fork, 
bad accidents have often happened from a fork coming 
down heavily on an unprotected foot. It is also im- 
possible to dig without a heavy foot pressure on the 
spade, and in thin boots one hesitates to step on to 
wet ground and ram down the soil in planting trees. 
We gave a list of plants in the other book for planting 
in October, but there are very many which are equally 
easy to grow if a little judgment is used in selecting 
those most suitable to your soil. Senedo pulcher is 
of the family of Groundsel, the colour is purpUsh 
crimson and the height about three feet. It has the 
merit of flowering from August to October and not 
being yellow, as are so many of the autumn flowers ; 
it likes a deep rich soil. A piece of glass should be put 
on the top of the crown in the winter as it dislikes 
damp at its heart ; in spring it throws up a quantity 
of small growths which can be taken off to make new 
plants to flower the following year. Dodeoatheon 
Meadia, commonly called the American cowslip, is 
very seldom seen, though it was introduced into English 
gardens 150 years ago from America ; the flowers 
are like those of a cyclamen but much smaller; the 
colour is purpUsh-lilac. It flowers from April to June. 



288 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

It likes a sheltered position in a moist place, and some 
flat stones on the roots would be appreciated as they 
retain the moisture and prevent the roots being 
dried up. Onosma tauricum was first grown in England 
in 1801 ; the flower is yeUow and the plant grows 
about one foot high and the leaves are grayish in 
colour. It loves to be in full sun and has a delicious 
perfume. It can be increased from cuttings taken 
during the summer under a beU glass in the shade. 
Poterium officindle is very uncommon; it flowers in 
the autumn and has a dark-crimson blossom. The 
plant is five feet high and very erect. It is increased 
by division ; any good soil wiU satisfy it. Oenothera 
s'peciosa is one of the most satisfactory of the evening 
primrose tribe, eighteen inches high with herblike 
foliage and satiny white flowers. It is a joy from June 
to August, it increases very readily by runners from 
the roots which can be transplanted in early spring 
and wiU flower the same year, the better the soil the 
more quickly it wUl grow. Stohesia cyanea is a blue 
autumn-flowering plant about two feet high ; the 
flowers are rather like those of a China aster. It grows 
freely on warm soils. It was brought to England from 
Carolina in 1766, begins to flower in October and goes 
on until the frost kills it. The best way to treat this 
precious late bloomer is to give it as much sand and 
manure at the roots as possible and plant it against 
a south wall. It is propagated by division of the roots. 
Glabra is easy of culture in good deep soil and can be 
propagated by cuttings. Its growth is rather hke 
that of a pentstemon ; its flowering-time is from July 
to September. Cimicifuga racemosa, a handsome 
plant with long feathery racemes of blossoms. It 



SEPTEMBER 289 

delights in a rich soil and a little shade, the flowers 
are white and it blooms in July and August. I think 
September when fine is one of the most fascinating 
months of the year ; the clear cool bright mornings 
begin sometimes with a lovely sunrise and there is 
every inducement to be out by six o'clock. The 
struggle in one's mind between leaving the borders 
alone because there is so much still in flower and to 
come out, and getting forward with the work of planting 
for next year, is always increased by the fine weather, 
but there are many tasks that are calling our attention ; 
there are always plants that need cutting down, 
weeds grow faster than one can get them cleared 
away, and all the climbing roses must be pruned. 
Apples should never be left on the ground, as the 
moths whose grub attacks the core breed in the earth 
after they have eaten their way out to the surface. 
All the cuttings of pinks under the bell-glasses have 
■struck and I have been planting them down the 
sides of the sunk path. 

27th. — I do love digging potatoes, the mystery 
of the hidden growth so fascinates me ; one never 
knows what quantity or size of tubers there will 
be, never two roots alike. I suppose this is really the 
fascination of fishing, often one sees nothing but a 
dull surface of water or knows not if it be empty 
or alive with fish and then the beautiful shining thing 
is suddenly flicked out and, even if the fish can be 
seen, how different is the swift brown darting shadow 
from the radiant silky creature with the glistening white 
underbody that is thrown up into the light. I was 
collecting seeds to-day ; they have not ripened well 
this year, but the white Linaria, the pearl, has plenty, 



290 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

and when I turned the stalks upside down they ran out 
freely on to a sheet of paper, but GiUa, Antirrhinums, 
and poppies had to be put in a window to dry before 
they were ready to put into envelopes. Cornflowers 
can be left to sow themselves if your plants are true 
blue but they soon turn to mixtures of white and pink 
and are not worth reproducing. Woad is coming 
up well and will need planting out ; it looked handsome 
in the flower-border last year. I mean always to grow 
it, and as it flowers in nine months after sowing, the 
big plants can be rooted up and thrown away at the 
end of June to make a place for annuals or phloxes. 
I moved more chrysanthemums and tied up many 
plants which looked as though they would have with- 
stood any gale, but the wind last week found out all 
the weak spots in this garden. I am glad to see the 
common single perennial sunflower that I boldly moved 
at the end of July has quite recovered and is in flower. 
28th. — I had an interesting visit to-day from a 
very clever gardener who works some acres of fruit 
and glass ; he has the most wonderful amount of 
fruit in a small space that I ever saw. He kindly 
came to see my peach-trees in the house and give 
advice. The soil immediately round had been kept 
damp, but he pointed out at once that the wet patch 
did not extend far enough, as I had not realised how 
far the roots extended. He praised their clean vigorous 
appearance and agreed with me that daily syringing 
was the cause. He advised me to draw down the 
shoots of the Mar6chal Niel rose in the same house, as 
that prevents the sap running to the points as it 
always rises. He gave me a tip for summer pruning 
of wall fruit : to twist the long new shoots and give 



SEPTEMBER 291 

them a turn without snapping them and before nailing 
them in the direction you wish them to go ; it checks 
the run of the sap and prevents too gross a growth ; 
at the same time the strength is not thrown back on 
to the plant as in the case of cutting back. One 
needs a strong growth but not a tangle of side shoots. 
My friend also gave me some Egyptian onions which 
make their seed in the shape of small bulblets after 
the flower is over. They must be planted like shallots 
and need never be dug up, as one uses the flower 
bulblets as they mature. I am sowing Brussels 
sprouts outside and cauliflower in the cold house for 
early spring planting and potting up plants of straw- 
berries to force in the spring. These are strong 
young plants taken up with a good lump of heavy 
soil and planted very firmly in clean thirty-eight pots 
with washed crocks at the bottom and some soot put 
over the crocks to keep out slugs. The pots must 
be stood out on bricks or ashes to prevent worms 
getting into the drainage holes and kept watered 
and syringed in dry weather. The soil from the 
January hot-bed is very useful just now for all potting 
purposes as it is well rotted. Eadish can be sown 
still and lettuce and endive, the seedling already up 
should be planted out. I have been doing this but 
it rained last night and it is hard work with pounds 
of garden soil on each boot. My Scotch clogs are a 
great comfort and they hold the mud less than leather, 
the smooth wooden sole is so easy to clean on a scraper. 
We were picking apples to-day ; some of the codlins 
are quite ripe and we shall bottle them, as the keeping 
apples are scarce. I have been taking round baskets 
of the small ones to the cottages. 

u2 



292 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

My French strawberries would be excellent now if 
there were some sun ; but as fast as they form and 
ripen the heavy dew rots them. I have had a bed 
prepared in which to plant runners of other straw- 
berries. I have planted the bed with two rows of kale, 
as the runners will take up very little room at first. 
The raspberries have been tied up, all the old wood cut 
out and the plants reduced to three canes ; these should 
not be all one height, it is good to have some fruit 
growing low down. People with small gardens are very 
shy about trying experiments and following the 
example, on a small scale, of what is done in rich 
establishments. Potatoes are not difficult to force, and 
this year I am going to try growing them in boxes 
of leaf-mould. Select some sound tubers of a late sort 
and lay them on a shelf in a warm dark place, look at 
them every fortnight and rub off any growth, after 
six weeks lay them in beds or boxes of good rotted 
leaf-mould and the young potatoes will have grown 
in about two months. 

One of my sisters, who was staying in Devonshire, 
told me a story of an old sexton. The Rector of the 
parish, when he first arrived at the village, asked the old 
man to whom the three grass mounds belonged which 
stood rather alone in the churchyard. ' Them, sir, is my 
three wives ' was the reply. Some months later the 
Rector noticed the middle mound had gone and 
inquired the reason. ' Well, sir,' said the old man ; 
' You see my second wife she was a wrong 'un, so I 
took and flattened her out.' E. C. 

JULIENNE SOUP 
Cut some carrots, turnips, onions, celery, and leeks 
into thin strips, using double quantity of carrots and 



SEPTEMBER 293 

turnips. Dry them and fry slowly in two ounces of 
butter till brown. Add two quarts of clear vegetarian 
stock and simmer until tender. Season with a pinch 
of salt and sugar. Chop some chervil or parsley 
fine and add to it. 

BROWN HARICOT SOUP 

Boil half pound beans in two quarts of water. When 
the beans crack add a few tomatoes, one leek sUced, 
and a bunch of herbs. Boil until the vegetables are 
tender, adding a httle more water if necessary. Rub 
all through a sieve and return to a pan, adding seasoning, 
a good lump of butter, and the juice of half a small 
lemon after the soup has boiled. 

RICE SALAD 

Boil a cupful of rice (Carolina) for twenty minutes, 
well rinse in boiling water, then drain and let get quite 
cold, mix ordinary salad dressing, tarragon, chervil, 
and finely-chopped chives. 

CHEESE FRITTERS 

One ounce of macaroni, one large tablespoonful 
of grated cheese, one large tablespoonful of cream, a 
little French mustard. Boil the macaroni till quite soft 
and cut very small, mix with the cream and cheese 
and the mustard if liked. Make some puff paste and 
roll it thin, cut into rounds and fold over the mixture, 
fry or bake a light brown. 

VEGETABLE MARROW 
(From ' Herald of the Golden Age ') 

Peel a medium-sized marrow and remove the seeds 
keeping the marrow whole. Prepare the following 
stuffing: two or three chopped and fried onions 



294 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

six ounces of ground pine-kernels fried with the onions, 
six ounces of bread-crumbs, one chopped hard-boiled 
egg, one raw egg to bind. Fill the marrow with this 
mixture and steam for half an hour to partly cook the 
marrow. Now place in a baking tin, cover with 
bread-crumbs, place some small pieces of butter on 
the top and bake for another half-hour until the marrow 
is quite soft. Serve with brown Eoux sauce. 

POTATOES A LA MAlTRE D'HOTEL 

Slice boiled potatoes (new), put the slices into a 
stewpan with a little white sauce, two ounces of 
butter, chopped parsley, pepper and salt, and a spoonful 
of lemon juice. Toss until well mixed and serve. 

CARROTS A L'ALLEMANDE 

Take a bunch of quite young carrots, parboil 
them with a little salt, drain, put them into a stewpan 
with two ounces of butter, white sugar, and a pint of 
milk. Let them boil very gently and serve in their own 
sauce sprinkled with chopped parsley. 

A GOOD SALAD SAUCE 

Take the yolks of two eggs boiled hard and the yolk 
of one raw and mix them well together, then add three 
tablespoonsful of salad oil, one of tarragon vinegar,one of 
Chili vinegar, one teaspoonf ul of mustard, a little Harvey 
sauce, and a littlp powdered sugar. If not acid enough 
add a little lemin juice. 

4ed cabbage salad 

Take a firm head of red cabbage. Remove the 
loose outer leaVes and cut right through the centre. 



SEPTEMBER 295 

Then take a very sharp knife and cut crossways into 
the thinnest shreds possible. Add a part of a small 
onion chopped very fine and an ordinary salad dressing, 
with a pinch of salt and pepper. It is better to let this 
salad stand a day before using it : it improves it 
materially. It is very good eaten with any kind of 
cold meat or poultry. The chief difficulty of this 
salad lies in the cutting. Here the patent ' Knife of the 
World ' cook's knife does the work admirably, the 
Daily Graphic says, and is an immense time-saver. 



SAVOURY T0MAT08 

Three tomatos, two tablespoonfuls of bread-crumbs, 
one tablespoonful of cheese, one tablespoonful of cream, 
half-teaspoonful of sugar, six rounds of buttered toast. 
Cut the tomatos in halves, take out the iasides and 
mix with the bread-crumbs a little grated cheese, a 
gill of cream and half a teaspoonful of sugar. Eeplace 
in the halves and on the top of each place some buttered 
paper. Put in the oven to cook and when the paper 
is brown the tomatos will be done. Serve each on a 
round of buttered toast. 



SAVOURY BEETROOT 

One slice of onion, half a beetroot, half a teaspoonful 
of Harvey sauce, three tablespoonfuls of cream, three 
tablespoonfuls of milk. Fry the onion in butter, 
mix the sauce with a little salt and a pinch of dry 
mustard, a teaspoonful of flour and the cream and 
milk, pour it on the onion and boil five minutes. Lastly 
slice in the beetroot. This dish is eaten cold. 



296 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

TOMATO AND ONION PIE 

Boil some Spanish onions in a little water, when 
cold cut them in slices with some tomatoes and put 
them in a pie dish with pepper and salt and some 
soaked tapioca. Add sufficient water to make it liquid 
— the water the onions were boiled in is best — cover 
with a crust or with mashed potatoes. 

FRIED POTATOES 

Cut the potatoes in very thin slices, throw them 
into cold water, then dry them on a clean cloth, have 
ready a deep saucepan with plenty of boiling fat, lard 
or vegetarian butter (if it turns a crumb brown it is hot 
enough). Put a certain number of slices at a time into 
a wire basket, dip it into the fat and when they are 
slightly brown put them on to grease paper and serve 
very hot. 

LEMON MARMALADE 

The orange marmalade often runs short ; this is a 
good substitute. Allow three-quarters of a pound of 
sugar to each lemon, cut them up and let them stand 
for twenty-four ho\n:s in water, half pint to each lemon, 
add the sugar and boil ; serve in a flat glass ; it does 
not keep. 



OCTOBER 

A Walking Tour in Germany — Spanish Pictures at the Grafton — 
Co-partnership Tenants' Company — Girls' Education and 
Professions — Friendships for Old and Young — Prudence and 
her Dolls — Bull-baiting — ^A Real Cure for Influenza— The 
Badger — ^A Busy Month — Some Flowering Shrubs — ^The Downs 
and their History — ^A Lady or a Female — Dreams and Odd 
Happenings — ^Vegetable Eecipes. 

Here, as a contrast to your female bicycling tour, 
is a male walking tour in Germany ; it must be a 
very delightful thing to do and is much more fashion- 
able in Germany than bicycling. People are so kind 
writing to me when they are away ; it is nice of them, 
and the affection of the young for the old is so golden 
and gladdens the heart much beyond what I expect 
the young know. My young friend writes : ' I am 
enjoying myself most enormously. The views that 
one gets are so varied and the colour of the distant 
forest quite lovely. The Walking Clubs have marked 
out a series of foot tracks which lead direct through 
the forest from north to south. It is very nice going 
and, if you are careful, you can't go wrong as there 
are plenty of notice boards. We started from Baden- 
Baden on Saturday and all day were climbing upward, 
first by a road which ran by a small stream, and had 
luncheon at a charming little Bathaus by a waterfall. 
That night we stayed at a small place called Hundsech, 

297 



298 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

having done only thirteen or fourteen miles. At 
first I found my rucksack very heavy and uncomfort- 
able but by now I hardly notice it. Yesterday was 
our long walk, nearly twenty miles uphill to begin 
with, along a footpath ; a glorious sunny morning with 
a breeze, and we got up to the Hornisgrinde, which 
is 3820 feet, looking west over the Rhine Valley. 
We could see the Vosges mountains to the south-east, 
then we dropped down a steep path through pines 
and half-way down got a peep at a mountain lake 
called Mummelsee, by which we lunched. Then on 
to a place called Euhstein for tea, then had to climb 
again many weary feet, and, as luck would have it, 
we went bang into a thunderstorm, hail and rain. The 
hail positively hurt ; we were wet through in a few 
minutes and stumbled blindly on over the flat plateau. 
We thought once we had lost the track, but picked 
it up again and found a rocky path through the pine 
trees to Allerheiligen. There are the ruins of a 
monastery there ; it was struck by lightning and 
destroyed 100 years ago, there is a joUy ion there 
and we had two nice rooms, dinner and breakfast, and 
the bill was thirteen marks for the two of us. We 
had dinner in our rooms as we had no clothes to go 
downstairs in. To-day we are rather footsore, as, 
though we have not done more than fourteen miles, 
it was nearly all hard road and that seems to knock 
one's feet about, especially coming downhill. I have 
seen some wild autumn crocuses but not many other 
wild flowers ; I suppose it is too late. The peasants 
seem awfully nice and good-tempered. My friend, 
fortunately, has a good working knowledge of German- 
The only signs of labour here are the timber cut in 



OCTOBER 299 

the forest, and, I suppose, waiting for winter snows 
to bring down. 

' Freiburg. — We are staying here two days, rather 
glad of the rest, though I am looking forward to getting 
on the road to-morrow. We stayed at a place called 
Wolfach, which is a small manufacturing place with a 
good river from which they get their water-power. 
Every place we have been at except one has electric 
light. From there we took the train to a place called 
Triberg, where there is a fine waterfall. At Walden, 
to which we walked from Triberg, the iim was the 
most primitive at which we have yet stayed, but it 
was delightfully clean. What I don't like are the 
enormous sort of quilts, like feather beds, which they 
expect one to sleep under. This is a charming old 
town ; one of the features of the place is the picturesque 
effect of the clear little streams running along the 
streets. I saw a most interesting machine yesterday, 
a motor which had a saw and a wood-splitting instru- 
ment on it. Two men worked it, one cutting up the logs 
and the other splitting them for firewood : people 
buy the logs and then hire this machine to come and 
cut them up before their doors; it made a most hideous 
noise. In the evening I saw a whole battalion of 
troops coming in from manoeuvres looking very 
fit but rather tired and dusty ; someone told us that 
they have to march nine hours a day. To-morrow we 
go up into the hills again to Titisee and the Feldberg, 
which is the highest part of the forest; thence to 
Basel by Belchen and Kandern and so home vid 
Paris and Havre. We have been very lucky in the 
weather, only getting wet through once.' 

Once out of the usual track how fashions cling ! 



300 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

His description of the German bed reminds me of one 
of the most delightful books of my youth, the foreign 
tour of ' Brown, Jones and Eobinson,' illustrated by 
Eichard Doyle. It begins in Germany and a drawing 
represents the tall one of the party, Jones, in bed with 
the huge eiderdown on the top of him and his feet 
sticking out at the end of the bed and underneath 
Jones' night thoughts, ' Man wants but little here 
below — ' but ' wants that little long.' The whole 
book is wonderfully amusing and funny, though it is 
Europe as I knew it, not at all as it is now, where all 
towns have a tendency to be little Parises. I believe 
this is less the case in Spain than anywhere, but, alas, 
I have never been to Spain or seen the wonderful 
Madrid Gallery. How much there is one would like to 
go on learning and seeing ! This alone makes old age 
really interesting and life worth living. I went the other 
day to the Loan Exhibition of Spanish pictures at the 
Grafton Gallery, and, with of course the exception of 
a few of the great names, ending with what has been 
almost a modern fashion, namely ' Goya,' even the 
artists' names were quite unknown to me. Second- 
rate Spanish pictures have always seemed to me black 
and iminteresting. The first impression of what is 
called in the catalogue ' The Catalan School ' shows how 
much more the painters were under the influence of the 
North German and Netherlands artists than they were 
under the ItaUans. The catalogue says of these 
unknown early Masters about 1420 : ' Their primitive 
drawing and treatment betray a second-rate artist, 
but their charm is in the beautifully decorative effect 
of the gold backgrounds and gothic frames, and in the 



OCTOBER 301 

childlike presentment of the story. An early fifteenth- 
century picture of St. Michael and the Dragon was very 
fine in colour. There were, of course, many by Velasquez 
— real and attributed — his dates are 1599 to 1660. 
Several interesting historical portraits by Coello, also an 
entirely new and unknown name to me. I find he was a 
Portuguese painter, and the Biographical Dictionary 
says a pupil of Raphael and Antonio Moro, and 
he was called the Portuguese ' Titian.' He was 
Court Painter to Philip II., who loaded him with 
benefits. The portrait of the Duchess of Alba by 
Goya, 1746 to 1828, is an interesting picture, painted 
with most loving care and I should say under French 
influence at the time ; it was in Louis Philippe's 
collection. As is so common with beautiful portraits 
of ladies, there were scandals about the painter's too 
intimate relations with the Duchess ; a painter is apt 
to be in love with his subject, or at any rate with what 
responds to the type he most admires : it is only so that 
we have the best women's portraits. 

I know you will be interested in the Life, just come 
out, of Uncle Clarendon, by Sir Herbert Maxwell. So 
send for it at once instead of waiting to read it here. 
You will know well by name so many of the people 
mentioned, from having helped me in the sorting of 
the old family letters, to find something of general 
interest to put into my ' Memoirs and Memories.' 
To all of us the book is very exciting, like being given a 
key to a kind of Bluebeard cupboard, and finding 
Cabinet secrets, which in our time were only mentioned 
with bated breath, suddenly revealed not as secrets 
of great importance but as guidance and help for the 



302 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

generations to come. It always greatly comforts 
me to read how often England has been on the very 
brink of ruin, and about to be effaced from the map of 
Europe ! 

I took a friend to-day to Hampton Court. Perhaps 
it all never looks so beautiful as in the early autumn 
days, with yellow sunshine and grey mists. Crowds of 
people were about, and it was a consolation to know the 
Palace was open agaia ; it has been shut for months for 
fear of the militant suffragettes. We did not go into 
the public galleries to-day but walked down the long 
borders which were blazing with autumn flowers. The 
gardens are always interesting to amateurs because 
the flowers are well grown and distiactly labelled, so 
that one can always get the exact name of any plant 
one possesses and take the names of those one admires 
and wishes to possess. But the lesson in gardening 
is one few can imitate as it means a very large reserve ; 
the moment one group of flowers goes out of bloom 
it is replaced by another, and this goes on the season 
round. In the summer the borders were full of green- 
house plants and half-hardy annuals, now these 
are replaced by dahhas, chrysanthemums, salvias, 
Michaelmas daisies, hydrangeas, &c. I took the names 
of a few things that seemed to me new and striking. 
Hydrangea ' MoUere ' is like a very handsome Dr. 
Hogg. Artemisia latifolia, a handsome autumn plant, 
has done badly everjrwhere this year, so it was a comfort 
to me to find it not good even at Hampton Court. 
SoUdago, ' Golden Wings,' is as handsome as its name 
and very effective for a short time in a large garden. 
The tall pale-yellow calceolaria Burbidgei is a satis- 
factory tall plant not often seen. Of course, plants that 



OCTOBER 303 

will not stand moving are singularly absent from this 
garden. I think by way of criticism that there is a 
mistake made in the planting of the beds cut in the 
grass opposite the Palace. These are arranged with low- 
growing things broken with high ones; these rather 
spoil the character of the place and the flat vistas which 
should be only broken by the magnificent yews with 
their red stems. I have a little old print showing 
these when small as they were planted by Mary of 
Orange. The opening out of the moat and the showing 
of the Tudor bridge, which was done two years ago, is 
an immense improvement and one wonders why it was 
not done sooner. Henry VIII. drained and filled the 
moat because Anne Boleyn objected to the smell. 
The ' beastes ' have been correctly reproduced as they 
found the drawings of the old ones. They are still too 
white and I long to have them watered with liquid 
manure as that is the only way to colour stone or plaster 
quickly : Nature does the rest. For those who are 
interested in Henry VIII. and the extraordinary 
revolution he brought about in the country by the 
dissolution of the monasteries, a book called ' A History 
of the Dissolution of the Monasteries ' throws a good 
deal of light on this very interesting period. 

After the ripening sun of two years ago, my hollies 
were very good last year and covered with berries. They 
are slow-growing trees and should be carefully pruned 
in the early spring and not cut too hard in December 
for\the sake of the berries. They should always be 
allowed space to reach their fullest development. 
When they are small, temporary things may be planted 
round them, which can be transplanted later to let the 
holly have its way. When there is not a shrubbery, 



304 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

where specimen trees may be allowed to grow, hollies 
are very effective on large lawns or on enclosed common 
grounds; the hollies then become a feature in the 
prospect from the windows. April or May is the 
best time to plant ; some rotted manure should be 
given ; almost any kind of soil will suit them. Hollies 
can be seen to great advantage at Kew. I believe there 
are about twenty kinds which will flourish in the 
United Kingdom, but some are not evergreens. Where 
anything of a collection can be made, the yellow-berried 
holly should not be omitted, var. fruda lutea : it shows 
up particularly well in dull weather. I don't think your 
pretty little paddock will be complete without some 
mistletoe : it is getting rare in England now. It is not 
necessary to grow it on an apple-tree, though, if you 
have an old one which bears little fruit, it might be 
sacrificed to this pretty but greedy parasite. It 
will thrive on the thorn, the elm, the poplar, and the 
lime. Londoners can see it on the tops of high elms 
outside Hampton Court. The cultivation is not 
difficult, though it requires patience. When the 
berries are ripe in May you make a slit in the bark of the 
tree to be inoculated and rub in a burst berry, the 
seeds of which will stick owing to its glutinous nature. 
Birds often rob the seeds, but given a successful 
inoculation a tiny green thread will be seen in the 
following spring, and twelve months later two small 
green leaves ! I was not wrong in saying patience 
was required. 

I think you know I have always been rather 
prejudiced against the Scout movement, fearing it 
tended for military service in England, but the other 
day Filson Young had a first-rate article in the 



OCTOBER 305 

Pall Mall about Scout work in London slums and 
all that it does for the boys. I am told, by those who 
know, that it improves the boys without tending against 
peaceful employments. This article has finished my 
conversion as regards boys ; as regards girl Scouts 
my conversion still has to come ; at any rate no one 
writes about girls as Filson Young writes about boys. 
I am not sure that the same methods as those used 
for boys will raise girls and fit them for life : perhaps 
I am only old and blind. Filson Young's article 
ends : ' When I came away I was escorted by a small 
atom detailed to guide me to the Elephant Tube 
station : it was an unknown world to me, but I cannot 
describe the sense of safety I had in that flaming 
pandemonium of South London while the small boy 
trotted beside me. We held conversation — instructive 
on both sides ; and when we parted, knowing how he 
must have hated being taken away from the fun of the 
fair, I tendered certain coppers to him so that he 
should return by 'bus or tram-car. " But we don't take 
money. Sir," he said, and, salutiug, departed into the 
night.' A useful lesson when ia these days everything 
is made an excuse for begging. 

I have what is to me a new winter-flowering green- 
house plant, Moschosma rvparium. It is in Veitch's 
catalogue. I saw it in a neighbour's greenhouse in great 
quantities and very well grown, large branching plants ; 
looked at casually, it is rather like a spiraea, but it is 
imHke when examined closely ; its leaves are different, 
rather woolly, and sweet-smelling when pressed. 
Mixed in this greenhouse with Poinsettias, it made a 
charming winter arrangement for those who prefer 
an effect only to be got from a large quantity of one or 



3o6 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

two plants. I confess I greatly prefer a greenhouse 
full of variety of plants and colours all the year 
round. 

To-day I went to hear a lecture on the Co-partner- 
ship Tenants' Company. A year or two ago I went 
to the Letchworth Garden City, where this Company has 
some houses, but I had no idea of how the movement 
for the reUef of crowded areas and the benefit of the 
poor had spread. This Company has already spent 
£190,000 on land and buildings and has erected 2854 
houses. The rent-roll is now £75,000 per annum, and 
the Company has paid five per cent, per annum since the 
first year, dividends on shares, the maximum allowed 
by the rules, any further profit going back to the 
estate. The lecture was illustrated by lantern slides, 
and the figures showing the difference as regards health 
and the lowering of the death-rate — especially in infants 
— took my breath away, they were so startling. No 
house is unlet, and at the end of 1912 the rent in arrears 
was less than £50. The Company own principally 
garden suburbs, which are distinguished from garden 
cities by the absence of any manufactories, the tenants , 
being those who go to their work in the neighbouring 
towns. On its estates an average of thirty to fifty 
people to an acre is a fair estimate as opposed to 270 
per acre representing the congestion of thirteen 
millions of people in England. The little book, given 
to us in the lecture hall, thus explains the idea and 
aims of the Company : — 

' The principle of co-partnership implies that a 
resident obtains, as a member of a community on such 
an estate, advantages which as an individual he might 
not otherwise enjoy — shrubberies, termis courts, bowl- 



OCTOBER 307 

ing greens, croquet lawns, and open spaces ; and being 
financially interested in the estate, he exerts his 
influence to the protection of its property and the main- 
tenance of its ideals. Thus the idea embraces utility. 
Slums, unlike the poets, are made, not born. An 
individual may in time demoralise a street and see that 
street deteriorate to a slum area. 

' A co-partnership is not a disjointed mass of 
individuals with only individual interests ; it is a 
communal whole, and the danger previously mentioned 
is obviated. The individual and the community bene- 
fit, and that great community — ^the Nation — becomes 
possessed of a body of citizens who, because of health- 
ful homes, lead healthful lives, and form in time the 
nation's greatest asset. 

' The contrast was given recently at Derby. The 
borough was divided into four divisions, and the 
health statistics show that in the suburban area, 
without slums, the average expectation of life was 47 
years as covi'pared to 30 years in the central wards, where 
a large profortion of non-through-ventilation houses 
existed. 

' And this is what the idea is and these are its 
aims : Beauty and system in architecture, open spaces 
and fresh air, gardens and natural pleasures, health- 
ful surroundings, social facilities and commimal bene- 
fits — and, as the basis of all, a system which is financially 
sound and deservedly successful. 

' Besides the advantages offered to tenants in 
estate amenities and social opportunities, there is this 
financial benefit. The resident outside the garden 
suburb has either to rent his house or buy it. In 
the former case he has no benefit accruing to him from 

x2 



3o8 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

many years' payment. He still remains a tenant only, 
and the house stiU remains the property of the landlord. 
Should he purchase, he sinks his money in bricks, and 
if compelled to leave the neighbourhood, leaves behind 
him valuable capital which he may not be able to 
reahse. In addition, the neighbourhood itself may 
deteriorate through a variety of causes, and the 
house- owner suffers in the general shrinkage. 

■ On a co-partnership estate, the tenant investor 
obtains interest on his investment. The dividend 
on rent goes to the increase of his capital till that 
capital has reached the value of the house occupied 
by him, or in some cases, ten years' rent. If compelled 
to leave the garden suburb, he may retain his invest- 
ment or dispose of it. Thus his capital is as negotiable 
as his labour. There is no chance of the estate dete- 
riorating through causes outside him, for it is controlled 
as a whole by the Society. The actual house does not 
belong to him — ^in time he may hold invested capital 
representing its value. 

' This is appreciated, else the Co-partnership 
Tenants' Limited could not at present be engaged in 
developing estates to house more than 40,000 people. 

' The Company also have much regard for the 
welfare of their employees. 

' The Co-partnership employees engaged in the 
administration or in the constructional work on 
the estates number about 1200. These men obtain 
the highest wages in their respective trades ; but 
Co-partnership Tenants' Limited felt that there was 
the responsibility of attending to the mental as well as 
to the physical wants of their employees. They 
decided, therefore, to offer unique opportunities for 



OCTOBER 309 

betterment. An employee who cared to attend trade 
classes was offered three-fourths of the fees. The 
Vivian Technical Library, of over 900 technical books, 
offered them free class-books. A sum of £46, through 
the kindness of Mrs. Thornton, was set aside for 
scholarships and prizes. The result of this in 1912 
is shown as under : 

' " One hundred and seventy-nine employees 
attended technical classes at nineteen different Techni- 
cal Institutes and Polytechnics in London. The number 
of classes taken totalled over 500, varying from short- 
hand to plumbing and graphic statics." ' 

You will, I know, spread the knowledge of this 
and tell anyone who is interested, as I think all should 
be, that any further information can be obtained on 
applying to the Secretary, Co-partnership Tenants, 
Limited, 6 Bloomsbury Square, London, W.C. 

I must go back to our talk the other night, when 
you were here, about girls. It is curious that you, whom 
circumstances have enabled to so enjoy your liberty, 
should take the side of the mothers and I the side of 
the daughters. Of course, if love binds the daughter 
to her home and there will be enough to live upon when 
it is given up, that solves all difi&culties and there is 
nothing more to be said. AU I maintain is that daugh- 
ters should not be expected to live at home if they 
want to go out into the world and make their own way. 
To give them a good education and even allow them 
to go to college and then not help them to some 
remunerative employment seems to me ridiculous. 
Why, after a certain age, should girls not be treated 
as boys and given an allowance and allowed to be 
independent ? 



310 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

In the Daily Mail, which I only read occasionally 
by the kindness of my butler who brings it me as a 
consolation when I am dining alone, I saw the following 
letter :— 

' SiE, — My father had no son, and I was his eldest 
daughter. I was delicate and no good at games, 
but he loved to treat me as though I were a boy, so 
he sent me to college. I did not want to go, but I 
think he hoped to see over again in me some of the 
hope and glamour of his own undergraduate days, 
so I went. The thought of it was a dream and a 
delight to him. 

' Then, when I had been up a term or so he came 
to see me, and I showed him the best I had to show — 
the library and the fine buildings and my friends. 
He was interested enough, but he had not much to say, 
and at last, after a silence, " How artificial it all is ! " 
he cried. And though it meant the breaking of an 
ideal for us both, I was glad he had said it, for he 
voiced my own unspoken thought, and though I did 
not know why, I knew that he was right. 

' The week before Schools (Examination) I was 
dancing — a thing very few girls do, for they get 
" Schools fever " worse than any man. I was dancing 
with a don or a schoolmaster — it does not matter a bit 
which ; all that matters is the fact that he was a 
man of balance and education. Somehow we found 
ourselves talking about Schools, and he laughed and 
said, " Ah, well ! At all events you have nothing 
to do with all that." 

' I shall never forget the little thrill of pride that 
ran through me. He had not guessed I was a " woman- 
student." He would hardly believe it when I told 



OCTOBER 311 

him that I was "in for Schools." And afterwards 
I wondered why there had been that thrill, why I 
had taken his words for a compliment. For he had 
meant them for a compliment, and though I could 
only guess at the reason, I knew even then that he 
was right. 

' Next week I got my First. Just for one superb 
day I was in Paradise. Let my father and that man 
at the dance say what they would, I could laugh 
at them. They were old-fashioned and altogether 
wrong. This was achievement ; what would happen 
next ? 

' Nothing has happened next. 

' That is all three years ago, and now I am earning 
— just barely earning — my own living in a position 
where my degree counts for nothing. A little time 
ago I was at a shooting-tea in a big house full of girls 
in pretty frocks — ^for it was our role at that particular 
hour to look charming and give tea to a crowd of 
young men in the perfection of tweed and leather. 
A word or so of conversation drifted to me. " Oh 
well, I got a very fair Second " ; a young man in the 
Foreign Office was speaking. His friend made answer : 
" Lucky for you ! I only got a Third." He was 
in Parliament, a comiag man. And they had both 
been " up " with me. 

' Suppose I had said " I know you quite well by 
sight — I was ' up,' too " they might have chaffed me, 
or they might have thought me a blue-stocking. 
As it was they were enchanted to talk with me as a 
relief after a long day in the open. It was all quite 
pleasant. You may be sure I did not tell. For by 
now I know why they feel like that, the men who 



312 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

get poor Seconds, about the girls who get brilliant 
Firsts, or even any degree at all — and in bitterness 
of heart I know that they are right. 

' The root of the matter is this : you have made an 
end for women of what is the begioning for men. Those 
young men were right when they liked me as a girl, 
but would have been suspicious of one highly trained — 
for no purpose. Their degree was really a degree — a 
step in a ladder that was to lead them to all sorts of 
work and life. They were right to shrink from a 
thing that ended where it should have begun. 

' I suppose nothing will happen. I am not thinking 
about money ; but if I do not marry — ^and that is not 
a likely thing to a girl who earns her own living — what 
am I going to think about when I am old ? Of my 
name at the head of the list, pinned up in a big hall ? 
I suppose so. I ache with envy of the young man 
with his uncertain Third and his right to work. I 
am very grateful to Miss Marjorie Alexander for 
voicing a sorrow which is no less bitter because, for 
the sake of humour and sanity, it lies hidden very 
deep. ' Iota.' 

There is a very great deal of useful truth in it. 
No girl, I think, ought to ask her parents to send her 
to college unless she has a very distinct idea of what 
her education is to lead to. I am told there are some 
Government appointments open to women where a 
degree, and taking up some special subject, are a great 
advantage. I have no doubt that many professions 
will eventually be opened to women, as there was 
just the same prejudice years ago against women 
being doctors, surgeons, and even nurses as there now 



OCTOBER 313 

is against women lawyers, and there is a great demand 
for women doctors in India and other places in the 
East. The agricultural and horticultural colleges 
have opened up a new career for women. Since the 
above letter appeared there has been a correspondence 
on the subject and Lady Boots has suggested a business 
career for college girls. This is all very well, but the 
girl clever enough to do well in business would do 
far better to spend her time at one of the schools now 
open all over England for preparing students for the 
Civil Service clerkships than in completing her classical 
education at Newnham or Girton, but I hope that 
all professions will before long be open equally for 
women as well as men. It is necessary to remember 
that, whether it is man or woman, there are only 
a certain number of appointments open to anyone, 
and many of the professions are already overcrowded. 
To my mind a happy marriage should be the ideal 
of every girl, and happiness in married life depends 
immensely more on the woman than the man. The 
present fashion seems to suggests that marriage after 
thirty, and after a life of enjoyment as they call it, is 
better than seriously beginning life earher. This chance 
only belongs to a certain class, for working girls 
probably a long engagement is the happiest thing, 
putting off thinking of marriage till after thirty often 
means no marriage at all. But every girl after eighteen 
should consult with her father and mother, who should 
be quite truthful with her as to what her prospects in 
life will be, so that she may have an idea how to face 
the future should she remain unmarried and survive 
her parents. The laws in France settle these matters, 
as there a man is obliged to divide his property fairly 



314 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

among his children ; in England it often happens 
that a man wiU leave his flourishing business and large 
sums of money to his sons and leave his daughters, 
brought up in every luxury, little more than they 
have been accustomed to use for dress ; but the absurd 
idea that it is indecent to face and talk about the 
eventual death of one's parents is responsible for 
much misunderstanding and subsequent misery. 
Money spent on starting a girl in a profession would 
do her far more good than leaving it to her when 
she is beyond the age to make any profitable use of 
it. On the subject of how far daughters should 
sacrifice themselves to their parents as they grow 
older, I think each case must be judged on its own 
merits, and if the sacrifice is to be made it should 
be a free-will offering born of love and not demanded 
of the parents as a right. To be a division of sacrifice, 
the parents should be ready to alter their mode of 
life or place of residence to one most convenient to 
any member of the family whose work demands it, 
but who is ready to give up the independence of her life 
and live at home for their pleasure. Girls' friendships 
are often a difficulty, what suits the children very 
often does not suit the parents at all, and yet the friend- 
ships of the young often mean more than those of older 
people ; to some friendship is an absolute necessity, 
but not to all. After all, it is true that friendships 
are not always a matter of respect, for as Goethe 
said : ' It is a man's errors that make him truly lov- 
able,' and it is a thousand times better to trust and 
be disappointed than to doubt and be justified. The 
difficulty often of friendship between the young and 
old is that neither will make the advance, the young 



OCTOBER 315 

fearing to be thought forward and the old afraid of 
boring, whereas the advance should come from both. 
Elder people, too, should never criticise the young 
till they know them very well, as nothing freezes 
young people so much as feeling they are being watched 
preparatory to being found fault with, and what 
makes them angry is anything to do with their home 
being criticised. However much they themselves may 
pick holes in the way things are managed, it is a very 
different matter when other people interfere : this 
is as it should be and a loyal sentiment. Perhaps the 
happiest people are those who do not feel the need 
of friendship, but for a woman living alone it, is a 
mistake to give way to this love of solitude. I think 
all friendships have their drawbacks at most ages, 
but for young mothers anything that takes their 
heart out of their homes, whether it be friends or 
relations, or art or social work, is distinctly wrong. 
A houseful of young children is enough to occupy 
any woman if it be done properly ; if this is not so 
I ought not to think as I do that a young mother's 
Ufe is the only one that is not absolutely irreplaceable. 
If the children come first, they will take care that 
there are not too many strangers constantly in the 
house. If anything excuses a certain neglect of the 
children it is when the wife devotes herself to her 
husband if he is ill or obliged to be away from home. 
To return to girls and their occupations : an aunt of 
mine told me the last time she saw the Prince Consort 
he said his great object through life had been to 
learn as much as possible, not with a view of doing 
much himself — as he observed any branch of study 
or art required a lifetime — but simply for the sake of 



3i6 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

appreciating the work of others, for, he added quite simply 
and without any self-consciousness or vanity, ' none of 
us know the difficulty of a thing till we have tried to do 
it ourselves, and it was with this idea that I learnt oil- 
painting, water-colour, etching, fresco-painting, chalks 
and lithography, and in music I studied the organ, 
pianoforte, violin, thorough bass, and singing.' 

This is quite the right justification for the young 
learning a good many things ; being afraid of learning 
anything because you are afraid you won't do it well 
enough is apt to end in your doing nothing. When I 
heard you playing the piano the other day I thought 
how curious it was that you and I should both have 
hated learning music in youth. Now you get a lot of 
pleasure from it though you never studied seriously 
or ever seem to practise, and I, who was allowed to give 
it up for drawing, have always regretted not having 
kept it up in moderation. I should advise all girls to 
persevere till they are eighteen. 

It strikes me now that too much life is given up to 
air and exercise and games of every sort. When I was 
young I made a rule for myself never to read novels 
till late in the day, and if games entail a drive by motor 
or rail, and thereby occupy the whole day, I think it 
is a mistake, as only an hour or two should be given 
up to them. After all they can only be played in 
good health and up to middle life, and it often ends in 
the old having few occupations and keeping them- 
selves awake by playing bridge or patience. One 
should never neglect training for the future. I am 
able, I am glad to say, to enjoy life as much as ever I 
did, and the way to keep young is to fill your life with 
many interests. There is great truth in this saying : ' The 



OCTOBER 317 

greatest contribution which any man can make to the 
social movement is the contribution of a regenerated 
personality, of a will that sets justice above policy and 
profit, and of an intellect emancipated from falsehood.' 
Charlotte Bronte says somewhere in her time : ' Did 
you ever notice that the women of the middle classes 
are generally too ignorant to talk to and that you are 
thrown entirely on the men for conversation ? ' There 
is no such feminine inferiority in the lower orders, 
women go hand in hand with men in the degree of 
cultivation they are able to reach. I can talk very well 
to a joiner's wife but seldom to a merchant's.' To go 
back to the subject of games^ — which, I wiU allow, teach 
the importance of fair dealing — what women have to 
learn is that their moral standard must be higher and 
not lower than that of men, and, in a matter of games, 
women of a certain age will often cheat when men 
would not dream of it. I think the younger generation 
are learning this, and it may be the result of the freer 
education of girls in large schools and the training 
which results in comradeship. One of the great 
heroes of my youth was Sir Wilfrid Lawson, who 
fought all his life against the evils of school. He said 
in a speech when he was a young man : ' In this country 
the Crown is the fountain of honour, but there is one 
honour the Crown cannot bestow — ^the esteem and 
respect of our fellow-countrymen are theirs alone to 
give : I shall endeavour so to act that my supporters 
shall be able to think of me as one who broke no 
promises, served no private end, who gained no title, and 
who lost no friends.' This was said over sixty years 
ago and would hardly have been appUcable to women 
then, but if women are to share men's professions, and 



3i8 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

to be freer than they have ever been before, they 
must look well to themselves to raise their own moral 
characters, and this will never be done by the talk and 
the writing which is only too common to-day, that all 
men are bad and all women are good. No doubt it has 
been the position of women in the world's history that 
has made them incliued to be less truthful than men. 
I am not sure that many men Hke very truthful women : 
they would rather they hid their faults than confessed 
them. Also women, by their dependent position, have 
often to gaia their ends by subtlety and this resolves 
itself into the eternal subject of money, and until 
women are more independent in this matter they will 
remain in that condition ; but the love of truth must 
be instilled very young. I think parents should 
discriminate between children who teU lies to screen a 
fault and those who lie from imagination. Boys some- 
times lie in a spirit of boasting : they love to imagine 
they have shot elephants in Hyde Park. Girls, on the 
contrary, I think, love shocking people, I quite 
remember I did ; others like to tell sorts of fairy stories 
which they know themselves are not true : all this comes 
quite right as they get older, even turns to gifts, but the 
lying that is to defend oneself, and perhaps cast blame 
on others, must never be allowed to pass. It is often the 
old story, ' The woman thou gavest me tempted me 
and I did eat.' 

A friend of mine, Miss Euth Anderson, sent me 
this Uttle poem the other day ; it is pretty, is it not ? 
and expresses the desire that is now so common with 
girls wishiag they could have babies without the 
bother of a husband. How little they know the joy 
and comfort of a good, kind husband, to share our 



OCTOBER 319 

troubles and double our joys ! Of course no one 
denies there are some very great and very real failures. 

PRUDENCE TO HER DOLLS 

What's the good of being a mother 
When your children never talk ? 

Or of playing in the garden 
When they cannot even walk ? 

I wash them and I dress them 

And I comb their golden hair. 
And I love them too and kiss them, 

But they only sit and stare ! 

Now Pansy is my favourite, — 
Though I wouldn't have it said. 

The other day she toppled down 
And cracked her lovely head. 

And though I rushed and picked her up 

And hugged her to my side. 
She never even made a sound, 

'Twas only / who cried. 

Oh ! I wish I had a baby, 

A real one from the sky. 
I'd love it so — ^I almost think 

I should like to hear it cry ! 

I have been lately at Horsham, a place I had never 
seen. It is delightful how the little car enables one 
to know one's own surroundings without going very 
long journeys. It is the most picturesque and unspoilt 
little town I have yet seen in this neighbourhood ; it 
was not on any of the old coach roads to the coast ; it 
ended in Worthing, which, of course, was a very small 
and unimportant place in the coaching days. Lots 
of the picturesque cottages remain, with lovely moss- 
grown stone roofs ; these, I believe, they will no longer 
pull off for sale as they used to do, nor is the Horsham 



320 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

stone quarried now. In a little railed-in garden they 
have preserved the old stocks ; these I have seen in 
many places, but not the huge stone sunk in the ground 
with a large and very strong iron ring which was used 
to tie the bull to for that most cruel sport bull-baiting. 
Bulldogs were employed for the same, hence the name 
for the ugly breed : it used to hang to the jaw or the 
nose of the buU although lifted from the ground. 
King James I. greatly delighted in bull-fights, and on 
the stone at Horsham it is stated that the last bull- 
baiting took place there as late as 1813. It is nice to 
think we have improved since then, and that, if those 
who go to see football matches are idle and betting, 
they are not cruel, though I am afraid the crowds 
who go to Brooklands, to see something that looks 
like a dragon-fly in the air, go there with a feeling 
of excitement from the possibility that a human 
creature may be dashed to pieces before their eyesi 
Of course most people do not realise this is the case. 
The drive home by Eeigate and Dorking was through 
lovely country, but it was pouring in torrents. 

This seems to me a recipe well worth trying for a 
cold, and it is so simple — I am sure that taking quinine 
and feeding up for a cold is quite wrong and only 
makes it worse afterwards : — 

A Grape Cure at Home. — The late Dr. Hunter, of 
Matlock, had a way of curing influenza, by the aid of 
fruit-water, which deserves record. His plan was 
complete rest in bed for forty-eight hours, complete 
rest to stomach by abstinence from food for the same 
time, only fruit-water without sugar to be taken in 
the forty-eight hours. He cured hundreds of patients 



OCTOBER 321 

in this way ; an excellent plan, too, for a bad cold. 
He did not mind much what fruit-juice was used. The 
best winter fruit to use is the Gros Colman grape. 
Some abuse this as a poor grape. They are wrong, 
as fairly well grown it is a delicate and good fruit, 
a blessing to the invalid. This is crushed and strained, 
and the red-brown juice taken a tumblerful at a time. 
Next, at this season, would come a good orange. 
The Newton pippin, fresh and good, makes a palatable 
fruit-juice, requiring a little more care in shcing up 
than a grape. The Colman grape, however, is so 
plentiful in the markets now that to many it would be 
the easiest to procure and best to use. Any sound 
grape would do. A glass of the juice should be taken 
instead of each of the usual meals, and no solid food 
for the two days, after which the sufferer oftens gets 
up well and as lively as a squirrel in quest of food. 
I have tried the remedy more than once on myself, 
and always with benefit, though all womenkind fight 
against the remedy, fearing a coroner's inquest on the 
premises if one goes on with the fast and rest. This is 
exactly the remedy you tell me you found so efficacious 
while you still suffered from attacks of influenza. 

I find there has been a good deal of correspondence 
in the papers lately about badgers. My ignorant 
opinion, which I wrote to you in March, that, though 
omnivorous feeders, they did little harm, seems to 
be disputed : the harmlessness is asserted by some and 
contradicted by others. Their principal crime in the 
eyes of a hunting-man seems to be that one was sus- 
pected of eating fox cubs and of visiting a hen-roost. 
Is it not possible that the mother of the cubs was the 
attacker of the hen-roost ? Many rare animals are 



322 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

destroyed every year by gamekeepers. It seems a great 
pity that the balance of Nature should not be left to 
adjust itself. Whatever the badger's faults, I quite 
agree with the writer of the following letter : — 

' To the Editor of the Times.— 

' Sib — 

' Since the publication of the much-needed protest 
in the Times against the killing of badgers in the 
hunting-field, three more hapless creatures have fallen 
victims to the devouring hounds, the latest being 
kiQed by the Grafton dog pack, and no doubt many 
more will share a similar fate before the season is over. 
This will be sorry news to all who love and are interested 
in preserving the rare wild animals of their native 
country. For the Briton the badger should have an 
especial interest, as he is the most powerful of surviving 
British mammals, and " one of the oldest known species 
of animals now living on the face of the earth," to 
quote from Professor Owen. 

' Though the badger has dwindled down almost to 
extinction in many parts of the British Isles, his re- 
stricted preservation is now assured, thanks to the 
efforts of certain well-known landowners (whose names 
need not be mentioned). But that is scarcely enough. 
" The protection of the badger," remarks Sir Harry 
Johnston, " ought to be made universal in the law 
of the land quite as much as in the case of interesting 
rare birds," and the sentiment is one which, it is 
needless to say, will receive the approbation of all 
thoughtful people. 

' I am, yours faithfully, 

' Joseph Collinson. 

' Wolsingham, County Durham, October 17, 1913.' 



OCTOBER 323 

The only thing I was able to do to preserve the one 
that was found here was to tell the gardener he must 
stuff it as a punishment for having shot it, and it is 
now in his cottage. 

M. T. Eable. 

Notes from Redhazel. 

Oct. 1st. — Such a busy month, all the work is so 

heavy and rather tiring that it cannot be hurried over. 

The long borders are absolutely full of bulbs of 

tulips and the better sorts of daffodils. Narcissus 

obvallaris and the scented Jonquil, are planted 

everywhere with Anemone apennina and A. fulgens, 

Chionodoxas, Scillas crowded at the front with 

forget-me-nots and Limnanthes on the top; Sweet 

Williams and sweet rockets and wallflowers are in big 

groups among the bulbs. The thing to remember in 

planting beds which are in a conspicuous place is to get 

as many plants as possible which have a long blooming 

period and between them to plant things that can be 

taken up when they are over. Valerian, red, pink, and 

white, last for months and all three colours planted 

together make a fine show. The flower that lasts 

longest in bloom of any is a rare kind of Erigeron, with 

a tiny white flower. It grows four feet high and is 

covered with bloom from late June to frost in October. 

Woad and Honesty both flower early with sweet rocket, 

white and purple. I never plant Canterbury bells in 

a conspicuous place, they die so untidily ; they are best 

in a big patch in half shade somewhere rather out of 

sight. The brick path I watered with liquid manure is 

looking green with moss and quite old already. Heuchera 

y2 



324 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

Mspida, whicli I moved last month, has already turned a 
most lovely colour. Though we saw few queens in May 
the wasps this year are very numerous and attacked 
one of my hives. They have an advantage over the bees 
as they can attack without self-sacrifice and hve to 
sting again, whereas the bees must die when they part 
with their poisonous dart. Numerous moths, daddies, 
and spiders haunt our rooms, especially at night. 
How odd it is that nearly everyone objects to some kind 
of insect or animal, and, though I can catch a mouse in my 
hand, I should hate one to run over me ; even harmless 
spiders on one's pillow are unwelcome ! I am reminded 
of the little girl who, on being told that there were 
angels in the room, begged for a light in case one 
settled on her. Animals have no fear of stings, and 
even after being stung my cats and dogs continue to 
snap at wasps. A poor little pig died of a sting in the 
throat last week ; had we known in time, sal volatile 
and raw onion would have saved it. This is an 
efficacious cure in the case of human beings. What a 
brute one feels when a pup or a kitten is stung in the 
face and goes about looking so irresistibly comic, with a 
face swollen out like a Christmas mask ! and animals 
do so hate being laughed at and adore sympathy. 
I have known a scolding bring on an attack of asthma 
in a fox terrier that was instantly cured when my 
back was turned. 

3rd. — It is very wet and the ground is stiff 
and sticky : stiU work must be done and I got five 
or six dozen tulip bulbs planted and the runners of some 
big Prince of Wales violets that a friend gave me. 
Quite the wrong time of year to plant them, but I shall 
expect a few flowers in the spring. The quick-growing 



OCTOBER 325 

Michaelmas daisies are just a pest on strong soil and 
every day I dig up large clumps of them in beds out 
of which they were supposed to be cleared last year. 
This year I shall not leave a piece that can be found and 
next autumn we shall have quite a good show of them. 
There is always enough left however careful one is. It is 
like the bark in a fox terrier, which must be checked in 
youth or it becomes unbearable, and, however much it 
is stopped, there is always enough left to guard a house. 
I had a big haul of precious plants given me this week : 
rosemary and lavender, a variegated-leaved iris which 
makes a handsome clump, Papaver pilosum, some 
suckers of the Japanese wineberry, with lovely red 
stems. Some bulbs of Sternbergia lutea, the beautiful 
yellow crocus-like flower, were out, but we dug it all up 
with a good ball of earth, and hope it did not realise 
how much its life was in danger. I am trying very 
hard to label all the new plants I have this year. If 
wooden labels are used they are best painted white 
and written on while the paint is stUl wet, but for 
choice plants that remain in the same place, and are in 
a conspicuous position, Dutson's ' AUproof ' label is 
best, it is zinc with a sliding glass over the name space, 
and it can be got to hang or to put in the ground. 
When a new name is wanted the old one can be washed 
off if written with ordinary pencil. 

The Cape fig-wort {Phygelius capensis) is a vigorous 
border plant with long candelabra-like scarlet raceme 
of flowers, which grows two feet high. It comes out in 
June and late in the year is at its best. It loves the same 
sort of place as Heuchera sangumea — at the foot of 
a suimy wall — but will grow quite satisfactorily in 
the open ; it is easily grown from seed. Behmannia 



326 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

angidata comes from Central China and rather resembles 
an Incanillea. It also requires a warm corner, but in 
many gardens there are such splendid places against 
greenhouse walls facing south that are often left 
absolutely unplanted because they are not in a showy 
place, but, if your Bella Dorma lihes do not take 
up all the room in the places that should be theirs by 
right, there are things that will appreciate the warmth 
and protection. I must write about the White Tree 
poppy, Bomneya Coulteri, though I cannot grow it 
myself and even at Woodlands it refuses to flourish. I 
think, besides a warm light soil, it must have plenty of 
sun, and that is impossible sixteen miles from London 
with so much smoke blowing over whenever the wind 
is north-east, but it is quite easy to grow where the 
conditions of climate and soil agree with its Californian 
constitution, and it is a lovely thing. Most people grow 
Achillea Ptarmica fl. fl. the ' Pearl,' and it is a useful 
plant and the flowers travel well for sending away, but 
I think A. mongolica a much more graceful thing ; it is 
two feet high and flowers from May to July. Aconitum 
Fischeri is a lovely mauve blue, three feet high, and 
A. Lycoetonum is pale yellow, four feet high; both 
flower in August and are much less seen than the old 
A. Nafellus. Last year I bought six tree paeonies 
(' Moutan ') from a sale at Stevenson's. They came with 
their Chinese labels on them and so well packed that the 
pink shoots of the new growth were fresh and moist ; 
two of them flowered and they have made a good deal 
of growth. Ijthink them so much more worth growing 
than herbaceous kinds, which take up so much roonj and 
are uncertain about blooming. The tree paeonies are 
such wonderful shapes and make their buds so early 



OCTOBER 327 

in November ; they are pink, and for a great part of the 
year they are ornamental. I must move two of mine this 
year and put them just by the windows of the house in a 
south-east aspect — the cold north-east wind of spring is 
what is to be dreaded most. I think any sacrifice is 
worth while to have their lovely soft pink rose-like 
blossoms in May ; and the leaves, with their mauve tinge 
like the bloom on a ripe plum, are quite lovely. The 
best soil for them is free loam enriched by manure, 
but they must have good drainage. I wonder why the 
beautiful laburnums are always grown as standard, that 
is, the undergrowth so cut away that only a main stem 
is left. We used to have one that had sown itself 
and when three feet high it flowered profusely and 
was a joy every May. Laburnum alpinum is Scotch, 
L. Parkesi and L. pendulum are two good kinds ; they 
can be grown from seed and will flower when a few 
years old. They can be sown in the spring or planted 
then or now. The golden and scarlet wooded willows 
{Salix vitellina and S. fragilis) have a lovely effect 
planted against the sky on a slope, or in the garden to 
grow higher than the surrounding growth, as the branches 
are so bright during the winter. They can be bought 
for sixpence each at even a first-class nursery such as 
Veitch's of Chelsea, and yet how seldom they are seen ! 
The damper the ground the better they will grow, but 
even should they remain small the growth in early 
spring can be cut as they make a fresh top every year, 
and ' palm,' as it is called, if picked before the golden 
dust is out and brought into the housej is an ornament 
that is very precious in March. Carfentaria calif arnica 
is an evergreen shrub which bears white yellow-centred 
flowers ; in Devonshire it grows to the height of eight 



328 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

feet. I am very anxious to try Diosma ericoides 
out of doors ; it grows well against a wall in the south- 
west, but I fear Hampshire wUl be too cold for it. 
The smell of its evergreen heathlike foliage is unlike 
anything else and as a pot plant in a cool greenhouse 
or in a room it is invaluable. Cotoneaster applanata 
is an ideal plant to grow as a specimen in a hole in the 
grass at the side of the lawn in a half wild place. It 
has the great merit of looking well far into the winter 
as the berries remain on a long whUe it has not been 
on the market very long : Veitch sells it at 3s. 6d. and 
5s. a plant. Another good plant for the same sort of 
position is Lonicera Maackii, a very handsome fast- 
growing honeysuckle ; it needs no support, the branches 
being of sufficient strength to grow upright. It is of 
much-branching habit, and grows to the height of ten 
feet. All the Andromedae are good in peat ; A. arborea 
is one of the best and flowers in August and September — 
a duU time among the shrubs. Many people cannot 
grow the ordinary Myrtle ; there is one that is much 
less tender and grows in a garden on the top of the 
downs near me. It is called M. Ugui and is a dehghtful 
shrub and a strong grower. Another good shrub, 
seldom seen, is Elaeagnus macrophyllus : it is an ever- 
green from China and Japan and has roundish leaves, 
greyish above and silver beneath ; it has a small white 
flower in winter with a very sweet smell. The Aielias 
are very little grown, but A. chinensis is fairly hardy 
on a warm soil — the flowers, about an inch long, are 
carried in clusters and are of a pale-bluish colour, 
fragrant, and lasting several weeks : they are out in 
early autumn. Another beauty is the red sepals which 
remain after the flower has fallen. A. floribunda is 



OCTOBER 329 

hardy and is a good pot plant to stand out in 
summer and protect in winter; it has rosy purple 
flowers in March and April. If grown in a pot it should be 
left to get slightly pot bound. The climbing Solanums 
are rather neglected. In Somerset and Devonshire 
Solanum jasminoides is over every cottage but S. 
crisfum is also very beautiful. It is a shrub but does 
well against a wall in the south and west. Old plants 
reach the height of many feet and need firm cutting 
back when in full growth. It flowers in summer and 
is purple-blue and very beautiful. The carnations I 
planted in July and tried to layer have taken root and 
will make nice plants to move in February. 

When one is very busy it is an irritation to see others 
idle. I felt quite cross even with the dogs to-day playing 
together while I was running from one task to another, 
but later in the day I was talking to an old inhabitant 
who told me of the time, not many years back, when 
dogs were used about here to draw carts, and the fish 
was brought from Southampton by them, the man 
sitting on the side, and my friend told me how she 
used to hear the poor beasts howl with pain when they 
were beaten up the hills. 60 on, Jane and Archies, 
play all you like and be grateful. 

I had a delightful present sent me to-day from 
Woodlands, the book of poems called ' Love-in-a- 
Mist,' by Mrs. Neville Lytton, mentioned in our last 
chapter. Out of the many sonnets I feel compelled 
to quote this one on ' An Arab Horse.' I think 
the word-painting quite wonderful ; in reading it 
one has the same feeling of joy in something quite 
perfect that you feel when watching the beautiful 
live creature itself cantering about a field. 



330 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

AN ARAB H0B8E 

Limbed like an ash and eyed like a gazelle, 
Tail arched in pride, its plume a. silver shower. 
Glance as a lightning flash when thunders lower. 
Flame in his soul, and strength invincible. 
His beauty and his grace all eyes compel. 
Swift as a falcon, white as Alpine flower. 
Lithe as a leopard, yet a spring of power. 
No will may conquer and no terror quell. 

His crest a wave, his mane the falling spray, 
Shell-curved his nostrils, and the ears that quiver 
As lilies shaken in a. running river. 
He fears no might of dragons in his way. 
Give him but wings beyond the clouds to rise 
And he shall leap the gates of Paradise. 

5th. — The tulip-tree {Liriodendron tidi'pifera) is 
an American forest native, the forests of Southern 
Illinois are noted for them. In ' Flora and Sylva ' 
there is a drawing of a specimen at Esher Place 
where it has grown to great size and is a most 
beautiful object. When the leaves are small they 
are the tenderest green and the flowers appear in 
early summer and last about two months ; they are 
shaded greenish-yellow outside, inside they are 
splotched with yeUow and orange. The birds of the 
air must have a most lovely view as they look down 
on a fine tree in full flower. The rose acacia {Bobinia 
Ms'pida) I planted last year flowered in a very meagre 
way its first season but it has become established 
and will, I think, do well in time. The wood snaps so 
easily that great care must be taken not to brush 
against it roughly, and also it should be planted in 
a sheltered position. They wiU stand any amount of 
drought and do best in a warm soil. The rosy purple 



OCTOBER 331 

flowers come early in the summer, contrasting with 
the deep green of the elegant foliage. I have made 
the irritating discovery that the witch hazel {Hamamelis 
arborea) I ordered last autumn was not sent me, as 
instead of the bare brown branches being covered in 
January with crimson tubes, each bearing four long 
golden petals, the shrub did nothing but grow leaves 
till the autumn, so I suppose it must be H. virginica, 
quite worth growing but not such a winter treasure 
as is the true H. arborea. H. jaiponica flowers in 
February and March, which prolongs the interest 
if both are grown. It seems a great pity that the 
purple filbert {Corylus furpurea) is so little grown. I 
saw a place near here where it was planted in lines to 
form small avenues on the way to the kitchen garden 
and it was most effective — quite as beautiful as the 
copper beech and so much smaller, with the added 
merit of providing nuts. At the Botanical Gardens 
in Edinburgh in May I saw some fine specimens of 
the yellow hybrid {Bhododendron B. Smiihii-aureum), 
and to-day looking through one of Mr. Eobinson's 
books I see it much praised. Why, when it is seventy 
years since it was raised, it is seen so seldom I cannot 
think, but the monotony of most gardens is always 
astounding ; it blooms early in June. There are so 
many beautiful Jasminums it is impossible, in a small 
garden, to grow them aU. I think J. 'prmulinum one 
of the best ; it is probably a variety of J. nudiflorum. 
After being discovered by Menzies, it was sent to Kew, 
and some of the plants to Hong Kong to be nursed, 
and finally reached Veitch's Coombe nurseries and 
are sold from there at Is. 6d. each. It produces its 
large yellow flowers during the spring if planted under 



332 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

a south or west wall and is a good plant for a cool 
greenhouse. The flowering crabs (Pyrus) are among 
the most satisfactory of flowering trees, as the fruit 
is most useful for jelly and very ornamental : they 
flower freely in partial shade. In Japan they are used 
to plant small avenues. They vary very much in size 
and can aU be bought at Veitch's, Chelsea, for about 
Is. 6d. each. The dwarf kinds are P. Malus floribunda, 
P. HalUana and P. Scheideckeri, but the best for house- 
hold use are P. 'Dartmouth' and 'Transcendent.' 
The ' Fairy Apple ' and ' Montreal Beauty,' the ' Lady 
Crab,' and ' Tardive d'Hiver ' are all good. I have 
given a recipe for the jelly in the cooking part of this 
chapter. Berheridopsis corallina, in spite of the very 
trying name, is quite a gem ; its flowering time is from 
July to October, and it loves most a moist warm 
atmosphere ; anywhere on the west coast it does too, 
wonderfully. In cold districts it can be grown on a. 
wall with a frame-light against it during the winter, 
or grown in any airy cool house, trained under the roof, 
it is most satisfactory. 

10th. — Every sort of thing is pulling at my time 
to-day, the garden most of all ; weather, soil, and season 
— everything perfect for work — but the beauty of the 
day makes work impossible to me ; I want to ride off on 
the downs, which are looking their very best. Our inland 
downs are wooded, and the old yew-trees grow to per- 
fection ; the hedges are high, and, in the autumn, richly 
coloured, with the red berries of hawthorn and the black 
fruit of the privet shown up by a grey mist of the fluffy 
seed of Traveller's Joy. What a puzzle it is to decide 
how much to fill our lives, one thing so threatens to drive 
out another, and to be too much thronged with many 



OCTOBER 333 

interests tends to make life a scramble against time, and 
there is the temptation to be always looking forward 
instead of living in and enjoying the present. To be so 
busy that one cannot, without twinges of conscience, 
lie on the grass and watch the clouds or wander alone 
in the garden or the fields for the mere joy of being 
out of doors is a mistake. I sat in the paddock this 
morning and watched the animals ; the foal was loose, 
he is two years old and very wise and has a sense of 
humour. He loves to see the stately white cock flustered, 
so he stalks behind him very quietly and when within 
an inch of his tail he breathes out jerkUy and off goes 
the cock with a wild shriek, scattering the hens in 
all directions. I could waste hours in the paddock ; 
the mere sight of my horse with his head out of the 
upper doorway gives me pleasure, and the nanny kid is 
always fun to watch. She jumps on and off everything 
— ^luggage-cart, wheel-barrow, hen-coop, wood-pile — 
her thin straight legs looking so frail and breakable. 
Her favourite perch is the block on which the boy is 
chopping sticks ; she thinks this is funny. I might 
as well have gone for my ride, all I did was to waste 
my time with the animals and come indoors and 
write nonsense about them. A friend who came to 
luncheon to-day picked up a ' shepherd's crown ' just 
at my gate ; these fossil shells are fairly common in 
the chalk lands near here. The Downs are composed 
a good deal of chalk. I had noticed how many people 
in this part of Hampshire bear the name of Blackman, 
and it has been explained to me that there was a 
settlement of Jutes from North Denmark near Old 
Winchester Hill in the Meon Valley. These people, 
strange to say, were dark and came to be called Black- 



334 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

men to distinguish them from their fairer neighbours. 
The last example of a British camp in Hampshire 
is on Old Winchester Hill. The application of the 
lowest computation to this fortification makes it 
out to have required 2666 men for its defence, its 
ramparts are 1000 yards in length. A curious 
evidence of the fusion of the Celtic population in 
Hampshire is the fact that many churches are built 
on artificial mounds, one of these is at Corhampton 
at the foot of the Downs. The Saxons appear to have 
used sacred Celtic moulds for Christian purposes, and 
the early Christian missionaries were instructed to 
adopt the sacred pagan places as sites for Christian 
temples and to substitute Christian festivals for those 
of pagan origin. This is interesting to remember for 
those who took notice that, at the last big mission- 
ary congress, the same advice was given to modern 
missionaries to make use of aU that was possible in 
the old religions of those to whom they preached 
rather than to try and sweep away all trace of their 
old faith before preaching the new and thereby 
alienating the heathen by pouring contempt on their 
most sacred beliefs. Julius Caesar was never in 
Hampshire, but it is probable that the Eoman General 
Aulus Plautius landed somewhere in the neighbourhood 
of Southampton, a.d. 43 — most likely up Southampton 
Water. There are various remains of the Eoman 
occupation, and they are supposed to have introduced 
the many foreign trees that grow so well in the mild 
Hampshire climate. They also brought over the vine, 
and there were at one time vineyards at East Meon 
and other places. One of the Roman brickyards 
for making tiles, pottery, &c., was at Fareham ; at 



OCTOBER 335 

Fairoak, near Botley, Eoman bricks and tiles still 
remained under the soil up to a quite recent date. The 
church seems always to have held great sway in 
Hampshire; naturally the See of Winchester, being 
one of the greatest importance, caused this to be a 
very favourite county for monasteries and hermitages. 
There was a famous hermitage on St. Catherine's 
Hill at Chale, Isle of Wight, and the first attempt at 
a lighthouse on the island was a tower occupied by 
Walter de Langstrell, who kept a light burning as a 
warning to ships in 1312. In the middle ages the 
country depended very much on fairs and markets 
for supplies. In the reign of Elizabeth an inquiry 
was held whether any harm would be caused by the 
establishment of a market at Bishops Waltham. It 
was not till the beginning of the nineteenth century 
that any of the villages had permanent shops. I 
wish we could have more big mixed markets now, 
like those in the North of England, but they seem 
to have died out in some of the south-eastern counties 
and survived principally in the west. 

12th. — I have been planting apple-trees in the 
little paddock. Last year we turned the turves, 
gfass side down, on the top of the rubble at the bottom 
of the holes, but the soil washed low and the water 
has settled round the trees in wet weather, so this 
year we dug big deep holes, put six inches of broken 
tiles, then some good earth and spread the roots 
of the trees well out on this and filled in with fine 
earth and mortar rubbish, then well-rotted manure 
and the turves piled up high all round the stem ; this 
will, I think, be the best plan on this soil. A friend 
who is kind in helping me in the garden was in the 



336 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

paddock to-day. She was dressed as I always am, in a 
long dark overall. An old man named George, who 
helps in the hay-field, had come up about something 
and saw my friend giving the foal some whole apples. 
He showed her how to break them up and explained : 
' You see, ladies don't always know about horses ; well, 
there, I 'm calling you a lady but I don't know if you 
are a lady or a female.' Dear old chap, he is nearly 
eighty and quite a character, and when a friend of 
seventy-six remarked to him how hot the weather 
was ra the summer of 1911 he said : ' Yes, mum, it do 
touch up us young 'uns.' 

15th. — I have put all the chrysanthemum plants 
iato the peach-house after going carefully over them 
and disbudding all the late kinds ; I gave them a final 
dressing of Clay's fertiliser. 

The common Barberry often refuses to go red in 
too good soil, a spade round its roots wiU remedy this 
and send the colour to the leaves : a state of semi- 
starvation is most becoming to it. The coarse-grow- 
ing things in the rock-garden have quite grown out 
of hand and threaten to smother everything that 
is modest and restrained in growth ; nothing but 
steeling one's heart and dragging up large handfuls 
of double arabis, the mossy saxifrages, &c., is any 
use. 

20th. — I think of all the bores, people who 
insist on telling one their dreams at breakfast are 
the least to be borne, but my dream last night was 
so odd I must write it down. I was fast asleep when 
suddenly I heard the report of a pistol and saw a 
flame across my eyes. I knew I was in my own bed 
and my fir.<3t thought as I sprang up in bed was that 



OCTOBER 337 

I was shot in the eyes by someone who must be standing 
at the side of my bed, and, in order to ring the bell 
which I have in case of alarm, I must get past the 
person who had shot me and I was convinced I was blind 
because I could not see ; then it dawned on me it was 
the darkness that prevented my seeing and I reaUsed 
it was all a dream. Of course very few educated people 
attach any meaning to dreams ; they are usually hap- 
hazard and foolish, though they do seem occasionally to 
have warned some persons of danger or frequently let 
them know quite unnecessarily of the death of some- 
one dear after the event has taken place and much too 
late to do any good, but one carmot mix with people 
of a variety of shades of opinion without constantly 
hearing the most astonishing proofs of the ever-present 
spirit-world, though how far the powers who do 
occasionally manifest themselves are connected with 
those who have once lived it seems quite impossible 
to decide. Whatever is the explanation of the curious 
tales one so constantly hears of, visions and sounds 
being visible and audible to certain people, the fact 
remains that things do occur which carmot be explained 
away by saying that some persons are more imagina- 
tive than others, as the most prosaic and matter- 
of-fact people frequently experience unaccountable 
adventures, which have usually no apparent meaning 
in them. If some of us tried to make up an experience 
of this sort we should instinctively make it lead 
up to some purposeful ending, but, to my mind, the 
most convincing part of the generaHty of these ex- 
periences is that they are extraordinarily interesting, 
but also extraordinarily useless and apparently 
meaningless. The following story was told me by 



338 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

the daughter of one of the men. ' Two brothers, 
middle-aged men, were sitting in the dining-room 
after dinner, smoking and talking of indifferent matters; 
neither of them were imaginative men or took any 
interest in psychical phenomena. The room was a 
long one, having originally been two rooms ; it had a 
door at either end and each led into a hall, the house 
having been two turned into one. While carrying on 
a conversation, one suddenly said " What was that ? " 
the other replied " Did you see it ? " The elder one 
answered that " he thought it was or looked like Joan," 
and on comparing notes they had both been under the 
impression that they saw Joan come in at the door 
(which was shut) from the principal entrance and 
glide through the room and out of the other door. 
Joan had died some years before at the age of twenty- 
four ; she was the daughter of the elder man. A 
few weeks after this another daughter unexpectedly 
died.' A curious thing happened to a friend of mine 
Uving in the country. She was going to London on a 
visit and packed a small brown card-case carefully 
in a jewel box ; this she distinctly remembered doing. 
On leaving the house the butler handed her a bag which 
she is in the habit of using when travelUng, which 
contained a card-case, and she thought at once that she 
would use that one and not the other she had packed. 
She was in London a few days and my brother met 
her to bring her down to stay with us. At Waterloo 
they got at once into a first-class carriage as the train 
was already on the, platform. To her amazement, on 
the corner seat was the identical brown card- case 
containing her cards which she had packed at the 
bottom of her trunk before she left home and never 



OCTOBER 339 

seen since. She had travelled up from the country 
in a third-clasa carriage. 

Some people are curiously sensitive to the atmo- 
sphere of certain places. A friend of mine was asked 
to address a meeting in a town which was not known to 
her. The room in which the meeting was held was under 
a tea-shop, and both she and her husband, who was with 
her, were puzzled to account for the feeling of great 
depression and foreboding that came over her and 
oppressed her all the time she was in the room. Some 
weeks afterwards a friend, hearing she had spoken in 
this particular room, asked her if she knew it was part 
of an old gaol and was, in fact, made out of what had 
been dungeons. 

26th. — In rearranging my flower-beds I have had 
to be generous to my friends, giving away treasures 
that a few years ago were scarce and have now begun to 
increase. It is puUing at one's heartstrings, but to repeat 
the same plant all over the garden is a mistake, however 
beautiful it may be. Some things increase so rapidly 
that they soon become tiresome weeds. I also warn 
people who ask for such things, but when a friend begged 
for Linaria vulgaris, which was giving me so much 
trouble, I felt, as I dug up a large piece, only too thankful 
to get rid of it, like the woman, who had been converted, 
who said she found that ribbons and laces dragged her 
down to hell, so she gave them all to her sister. Such 
plants are only safe wedged in between bricks at the 
edge of a path, below a wall, or in a rock-garden where 
two stones meet. It is a pity not to have the plants, 
as they are very beautiful. 

Cauliflowers are not easy to grow; they require 
plenty of water and are very apt in dry weather 

22 



340 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

to flower in a pigmy way that even I, with my love 
of tiny vegetables, find trying. This year my fault 
was sowing too late, to cook with cheese sauce they 
need to be a fair size. I was at a cottage to-day and 
a neighbour gave me two nice ones with the remark 
'You are not above carrying them I know. Miss, 
or I would not offer them to you.' Last year I 
planted the newer white variety of Jerusalem artichoke 
and gave it rather a good place. This I found most 
satisfactory and shall divide it in January and replant ; 
the tubers are white and the shape of potatoes, instead 
of being covered with bumps like a gouty hand, but they 
are so much finer in texture than the old purple that the 
cooking has to be more careful and they take a very 
much shorter time to boil quite soft. Some people 
think they have less flavour, but I think them superior 
in every way to the old sort. E. C. 

POTAQE ROMAINE 
(From ' Lady Dudley's Cookery Book ') 

Cut up cos lettuce with a handful of chervil and one 
of tarragon. Pass these over a slow fire in a stewpan 
with a piece of butter. Boil some rice until it opens 
and then mix it with the above. Then add a quart of 
rich milk and make a thickening with yolk of eggs as 
you serve. 

PUMPKIN SOUP 

Cut in slices and boil in water one large vegetable 
marrow or a piece of pumpkin. When well cooked pass 
through a sieve. Boil one pint of milk, add a piece of 
butter, a tablespoonful of castor sugar ; pour this on 
the bulk and boil for a few minutes. The soup should 
be thick. 



OCTOBER 341 

CRAB CABBAGE 
(From ' Lady Dudley's Cookery Book ') 

Cut a white cabbage into shreds. Fry gently in 
butter and stew until tender. Season nicely and 
finish up with thick cream and a few drops of vinegar 
to make it taste a little sharp. 

MACARONI CUTLETS 
Boil quarter of a pound of macaroni in water, not 
making it too soft, chop slightly, add six ounces bread- 
crumbs, some chopped fried onions, a teaspoonful of 
lemon thyme, a couple of tomatoes fried in saucepan 
after onion, and one white of egg to bind. Mix, roll in 
flour, shape into cutlets, fry in fat or lard until crisp 
and brown. Serve with the following sauce : 
Melt one ounce butter, stir in one dessertspoonful of 
flour until free from lumps, add a teaspoonful of milk 
and stir till it boils, colour it brown with some browning. 
Finally add twenty to thirty drops of tarragon 
vinegar. 

SALSIFY FRITTERS 

Wash and scrape the salsify, boil it till tender, mash 
it with a wooden spoon and mix it with one egg and 
a tablespoonful of flour to the consistency of thick 
cream. Drop the mixture — a large spoonful at a time — 
into boiling fat and fry. 

SOUFFLE OF CAULIFLOWER A LA BARONNE 

Trim a nice cauliflower, clean it and put it in boiling 
water till tender ; drain, and cut in pieces. Place them 
in a buttered soufi36 dish with alternate layers of raw 
sliced tomato and fill up the dish with a mixture made 



342 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

as follows : — Take two ounces of butter, two ounces 
of flour ; half a pint of milk ; add the raw yolks of 
two eggs. Stir over the fire until it boils. Add three 
ounces of grated Parmesan cheese and the whites of 
three eggs whipped stiff. Mix all together and pour the 
mixture into a souffl6 dish. Bake twenty -five minutes. 

VEGETABLE CURRY 

Take carrots, potatoes, vegetable marrows, leeks, 
cucumber, in fact any vegetable in season, and a large 
apple. Cut all into dice. Put all into a stewpan and 
fry in butter a light brown. Add some stock and stew 
till all are tender. Mix in a plate into a paste some 
curry powder, flour, and butter, and stir into the vege- 
tables twenty minutes before serving; add a little 
chutney sauce. Serve on a separate dish some well- 
boiled rice. The curry powder should be without 
cayenne, to be bought at Jackson's, Piccadilly, and very 
little must be used for those on a vegetarian diet. 
The curry should not be Uquid. 

TO CURRY SEA-KALE BEET 

Cut the midrib of the beet into pieces, cook them 
slightly, take two ounces of butter, a large onion, a 
large apple, one dessertspoonful and a half of curry 
powder, and a teacupful of stock. Melt the butter, 
fry the onion and apple till quite brown. Now add 
the curry powder, then the beet, and fry in the above. 
Then put the whole in a saucepan, add the stock and 
place near the fire to simmer an hour; if it gets dry 
add more stock. The powder is to be bought at the 
Army & Navy Stores and is called K. Atkinson's 
(Windsor) mild curry powder. 



OCTOBER * 343 

TIMBALE OF BICE 

Cook sufficient rice in good vegetarian stock, add 
to this very finely chopped onion and parsley and about 
three small spoonfuls of grated nuts, a little butter or 
nut butter, add the whites of two eggs well beaten 
and, after mixing all together, turn the mixture into 
a buttered plain mould and steam for one and a half 
hours. Serve turned out with either tomato sauce or 
vegetarian gravy (see Fbbeuaey). Some people like 
the hot flavour of horse-radish, this is a great improve- 
ment to rice and nuts dishes ; grate a little into the 
mixture before turning it into the mould. 

HARICOT BEANS 

Soak in cold water for twenty-four hours, then put 
them into boiling water with a little salt and cook 
till tender, which will take from two to two and a half 
hours. A bunch of herbs, toss in a little butter when 
dished up or they can be pressed through a wire sieve 
and served with parsley sauce. 

A TOMATO SAUCE TEAT WILL KEEP 

Boil white sugar in the proportion of an ounce to 
each tomato until it becomes candied, add a fourth 
part of the quantity of tomatoes you have of onions, 
and when they begin to colour put in the tomatoes ; 
season with salt, a few cloves, and a little nutmeg. 
Boil the whole over a quick fire when sufficient. 



NOVEMBER 

Crime and Prison Reform — ^The Salvation Army — A Blue Book on 
Lunacy — A Right Understanding of Byron — Winter Rhubarb 
and Winter Flowers— The ' Ctomhill '—The Treatment of Pets 
— Wisley in Autumn — Garden Alarms — Pergola of Vines — 
Scented Fern — Old Portsmouth — Self-Control — ^Logan Berries 
— ^Borders in Colours — ^Vegetable Recipes. 

We are apt to be very gloomy about reforms and to 
think things do not improve at all because they do not 
go visibly faster, so I was much cheered the other day 
to see in the Times the diminution of crime stated to be 
the result of ' a new system ' ; that is, I am sure, what 
is wanted. Here is the statement : — 

' Mr. Eobert Wallace, K.C., in his address to the 
grand jury at the London Sessions yesterday, said 
that the calendar continued to show a decrease of 
crime in the county. The report of the Prison Com- 
missioners just issued showed that this satisfactory 
state of affairs was practically universal throughoat 
the country. The new methods of dealing with 
accused persons, of helping them instead of turning 
them into confirmed criminals, as the old system often 
did, and keeping them out of prison by dealing with 
them under the Probation Act and providing them 
with opportunities for keeping honest, had had most 
marvellous results. That was a matter for rejoicing to 
everyone who had the welfare of the country at heart.' 

344 



NOVEMBER 345 

I should think it was indeed a matter for rejoicing. 
It is a hundred years ago since Mrs. Elizabeth Fry- 
began her wonderful and courageous work in the prisons 
of the last century, and it is her example and her 
interesting experiences that have always made me feel 
that, in spite of the extreme contrast of the present 
system to the horrors she found in Newgate in 1813, 
still, if she could visit our prisons now, the hard, cold 
cruel discipline would fill the dear Quaker lady's heart 
with sorrow to find how little love and tenderness 
was there, and how entirely prison chaplains failed 
to show any sympathy or real thought of how to turn 
out prisoners better — not worse — than they go in. I 
am told by those who know that no criminal is ever 
better for being in prison, be it for one week or ten 
years. Surely that is a disgrace to a nation. Here 
are a few lines from Mrs. Fry's diary in 1813 : 
' Yesterday we were some hours at Newgate with the 
poor female felons, attending to their outward neces- 
sities ; we had been twice previously. Before we went 
away, dear Anna Buxton uttered a few words in 
supplication and, very unexpectedly to myself, I did 
also. I heard weeping and I thought they appeared 
much tendered ; a very solemn quiet was observed ; 
it was a striking scene, the poor people on their knees 
around us in their deplorable condition.' These un- 
fortunate people were transported as we know; now 
they are hurried out — hardened, ruined, hopeless and 
helpless — to sin again and be returned again to their soli- 
tary cells. On the very face of it such a system must 
be wrong. The chaplains' one idea is that they are 
hopeless sinners, to be scolded and abused. Now we 
have no Mrs. Frys, and, if we had, the prison discipline 



346 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

would keep the door closed ; a change can only come 
from the permanent officials. There is in my opinion 
only one organisation in our midst who could in any 
way solve the difficulty, and that is the Salvation Army ; 
why should not General and Mrs. Booth be consulted 
and questioned as to what they could do, and why 
should not the chaplains be done away with and the 
money go to the Salvation Army ? That would be a 
visiting of some use,^ while the modern official 
inspection, be it in prisons or asylums, seems to me 
the veriest sham and quite useless. Much the same 
can be said of lunatic asylums. We are told that there 
is a perceptible diminution of paupers — I expect the old 
age pension has to do with that — but that lunacy has 
increased; I suppose the feeble-minded count as 
lunatics. To my mind not nearly care enough has 
been given to the inspection of lunatics, judging from 
the sixty-sixth report of the Commissioners in Lunacy — 
a ' Blue Book.' The attention of the inspectors seems 
entirely directed to official lists of inmates, variety of 
the disease, and above all expenditure — of course a 
very important item. All the rest is merely left to the 
medical staff ; no effort is made to try any new methods 
of cure except through drugs. I know a doctor in Lon- 
don who beUeves he could empty half the asylums of 
England if allowed to teach the doctors his methods, 
they are of the simplest and entirely directed to the 
stomach, which rules that most important bloodmaking 
machinery of the digestion, this in asylums is much 
injured by food and aperients. The doctors in Ireland 
declared that tea and underfeeding were the great cause 

1 I have since heard that the Salvation Army are given leave 
to enter certain prieons. 



NOVEMBER 347 

of increased lunacy in Ireland, but in the only large 
pauper asylum I have visited alcohol was stopped, but 
copper vessels, as high as the kitchen, were provided 
for giving the inmates morning and afternoon tea ! 
How can disease be helped or cured by pouring 
in the very poison that has in some cases produced 
it ? What do Government inspectors know of such 
matters ? They leave all in the hands of doctors who, 
good men, merely carry on what they were taught in 
their youth ; they take tea themselves, so they give 
it to their patients. They have never been trained or 
taught to think of daily diet and its effect on blood, 
and yet none of them would give their horse or their 
cow a leg of mutton because it was ill. They just 
think of what suits themselves and that is much more 
a question of digestion than of the purity of the blood. 
Nurses are as bad, they ruin their health without 
considering what causes it to fail, putting down to their 
hard work when it is often their bad health caused by 
drugs or taking tea seven times a day. 

I hope Con Lytton's book about her prison ex- 
periences will be out soon. It is touching to a degree, 
but I am afraid the British public in general will never 
understand her Mrs. Fry-like motives for going to 
prison disguised, representing a personality not her own, 
or her reasons for giving an account of her sufferings to 
the world, while she more or less condones those who 
inflicted them, her whole object being to expose the 
system without throwing blame on those who obey orders. 

I know I must have spoken to you before about 
what I consider a very remarkable book, ' Byron,' 
by B. C. Mayne (Methuen, 1912). I never now buy 
a book till I have read it and feel sure I wish to possess 



348 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

it. Wen, now I have bought it, and I am very glad, 
and the second reading makes me admire it more than 
ever. I know a great many say ' Why rake up an old 
scandal ? Byron was a great poet, let his ashes lie,' &c. 
I do not at all agree with these arguments, too much 
has been written for that. Is not truth the biggest 
thing in the world, and is not understanding the only 
road to pardon? If the character and the faults 
of the Magdalen had not been understood, would 
Christ's forgiving words have echoed through the 
centuries as they have done ? I was brought up on 
these lines, and at seventy-seven I feel the truth of 
them more poignantly than ever. 

The darkest night that shiouda the sky 

Of beauty hath a share. 
The blackest heart has signs to tell 

That God still lingers there. 

The first line of Miss Mayne's introduction is almost 
startling, considering the shelvesful we know of Byron 
' Lives ' and literature. She says : ' There is only one full- 
length Life and Letters of Byron in English, and that 
was published in 1830.' She goes on to say : ' I hope 
it will be as pleasant a surprise to my readers as it was 
to myself to find how very Uttle else we knew about 
Byron, and how enthrallingly interesting, from its 
beginning to its end, his story is.' This just expresses 
what the book is to me. Whatever lies we owe to the 
Uving, to help and protect those we love, I hold we owe 
nothing to our dead but the truth. With aU his faults 
Bjrron at least was no humbug, and for himself he 
never wished to hide the truth, and the one great un- 
selfish act of his life was the silence he kept for the sake 
of others, and if any individual ever suffered much he 



NOVEMBER 349 

did. I entirely sympathise with his famUy or what 
remains of it — one great grandchild and her mother and 
the widow of Lady Byron's grandson. They care only 
that the great lie should no longer roll down the 
realms of time, and they, I know, think Miss Mayne's 
book is the truest, fairest biography ever written. 
Most people wUl dispute Miss Mayne's trifling asser- 
tion that his curly hair was artificial not real, and the 
curl his descendants possess prove that she is wrong. 
I know another case where the world accused a man 
of using irons to make the waves of his hair and nearly 
all his sons have just the same peculiar waving hair, 
though fashion now causes it to be cut quite short. 
Being a woman I cling to poor Byron's curls. Miss 
Mayne's book is in a simple, clear, narrative form, 
rarely broken up by letters, and the life becomes in- 
telligible and illuminating. It is compiled, of course, 
through labour and much study of all that has gone 
before, from Moore's ' Life ' in 1830 to the publication 
of the separation story in 1905. But Byron's character 
was a labyrinth of irreconcUables ; every conclusion 
requires qualification. One view is limited by another 
both being equally real though in apparent contra- 
diction to each other. As regards Lady Byron, how- 
ever, one may differ as regards the wisdom and charity 
of her conduct. She was very young and guided by 
men of an absolutely different type, and Byron's 
almost mad conduct before the separation made ' 
forgiveness peculiarly difficult. But the real interest 
of the book is what the authoress says : ' In writing of 
Byron we write of quintessential humanity, and when 
Byron says " My pang shall find no voice," that cry 
in " Manfred " is the word, as it were, of his life ; and he 



350 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

uttered it hardly more for himself than for us 
all.' And that to me is the undying interest of it all ; 
the help that the exaggeration of the type is to the 
understanding of the sex generally. Miss Mayne says : 
' We need that utterance, for scarce one of us would 
have the honesty had we the power to crystallise 
our feelings into the phrases he made for us. In the 
continual portrayal of himself, he was ia reality 
portraying a recurrent aspect of young manhood. 
The mode, to be sure, is for the moment altered ; 
young men nowadays are morbidly cheerful, amused 
as never children were by children's toys, and does 
not the much-paraded bloom seem often to be only 
painted on the peach ? Byron's pallor, Byron's 
wild-eyed woe, histrionic though they may be, convince 
us of some profound unseizable sincerity.' But I must 
not go on quoting from this unusually understanding 
and remarkable introduction. It is indicative of 
these modern days that it is a woman who vindicates 
Lady Byron's memory, and yet can write broadly and 
humanely of Byron himself. Whatever his faults he 
suffered much and so much may be forgiven. Had 
he lived he might in a way have redeemed his past 
and been King of Greece, which throne was offered 
later to another, not of entirely different type, Bulwer 
Lytton. Much was against Byron, his heredity, his 
upbringing, his mother, his half-sister, his talents 
and his position and rank. Had he been poor and 
forced to use his talents to earn his bread, or perhaps 
if, in their wisdom, his guardians had sent him to 
Eton instead of Harrow where he would have met more 
men of the same world which he afterwards found him- 
self amongst in London, his whole character and life 



NOVEMBER 331 

might have been different. The only moral now to be 
gained from the picture is that circumstances were 
against him and that sins and their consequences 
were never more deeply punished, for there never 
existed a more miserable man. Prom his exile 
he wrote to Mrs. Leigh : ' I always loved you better 
than any earthly existence, and I always shall unless 
I go mad.' He always craved for love ; and he really 
loved no one. And now let us once more draw the 
veil. The truth is there and that is all that concerns 
us, and let us fall back on the old well-known Burns' 
lines, which, if they reach one eye that does not know 
them, will justify my quoting them here : 

Then gently scan your brother Man, 

Still gentler sister Woman ; 
Xho' they may gang a kennin wrang, 

To step aside is human : 
One point must still be greatly dark, 

The moving why they do it ; 
And just as lamely can ye mark. 

How far perhaps they rue it. 

Who made the heart, 'tis He alone 

Decidedly can try us : 
He knows each chord its various tone. 

Each spring its various bias : 
Then at the balance let 's be mute 

We never can adjust it ; 
What 's done we partly may compute. 

But know not what 's resisted. 

You know how much I think of the winter rhubarb ; 
at any rate it is mentioned in ' Letters to Young and 
Old ' as being the only plant produced by Mr. Bur- 
bank that I have got or have been able to get. In 
America rhubarb is called pie-plant. What makes me 
think of it again now is that we had some people here 
the other night. I had a dish of it stewed and they 



352 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

pronounced it delicious, and later, as ' fool,' it was 
equally approved and has a much more fruity and 
refined flavour than ordinary rhubarb. I bought it 
of Robert Holmes, Tuckswood Farm, Norwich. Young 
plants planted out in April come into bearing in 
October. I was told it was a rapid grower ; this I 
have not found to be true, but I think the reason of 
this is that I have not protected it soon enough or 
sufficiently in the autumn onwards, but it is certainly 
well worth taking care of. I am trying the experiment 
this year of cutting out old black pieces of wood out of 
the roses instead of putting aU pruning off till the 
spring. It always distresses me to see the efforts at 
growth that roses make before they are pruned back 
in April. Perhaps with tender roses it will be well to 
spread a little bracken as a protection amongst them. 
To-day, November 27, I gathered my first Iris 
stylosa, the queen of winter flowers. I cut away 
some of the tops of the long grassy foliage in last May, 
as, if we had a sunless summer which we had, I thought 
it would help to ripen the root where the next winter's 
flower-buds are formed in August. They want to be 
constantly watched to pick the buds before they are out 
as they flower better in the room. This is also the case 
with Tussilago fragrans (coltsfoot) ; it flowers better 
and is sweeter in the house. Another charming winter 
flower is the Algerian periwinkle (Vinca acutiloba). 
In sunless weather it is nearly white, but it ought to 
be a dehcate blue. If you take the trouble to peel 
the stalks it does well in water. The large floppy 
chrysanthemums which gardeners are so fond of do 
well, and last a very long time if floated in a large bowl of 
water Uke roses. Whenever the weather turns frosty. 



NOVEMBER 353 

large bunches of Jasminum nudiflorum should be 
picked at once and put in water. Perhaps you will 
say my plants are still small, even then cutting the 
flowering branches does the plant good. My Magnolia 
grandifiora still has two large white buds on it. 

There is in the ' Comhill ' last month (October 
1913) such a fascinating sideUght on the famous 
Bronte school at Brussels : the article is called ' Char- 
lotte Bronte's Professor,' by Frederika Macdonald : 
do get it. After reading the letters which I men- 
tioned in July, it is very illuminating on the subject 
of Professor M. Heger and I think makes me under- 
stand better than ever before how his methods, his 
great kindness of heart, and his severity impressed 
an imaginative young woman hke Charlotte ; he had 
been accustomed to children, and she was no child and 
yet was also entirely ignorant of the world and its 
ways. Love will and must remain, but romance must 
die out of the world, I think because of understanding. 
She innocently adored and he could not accept her 
adoration. I take such a high view of the ' Comhill 
Magazine,' the articles are so able, so interesting as a 
rule, and, above all, so well written. Some complain, 
I know, that they are uncontroversial, uimiodern, and 
rarely touch on the subjects of the day : that is true, 
but that is restful, and to be rested and never bored 
is the attitude we gain from reading the magazine, 
and the articles vary immensely in subject and in 
expression and are nearly always literature rather 
than joumahsm. ' What a comfort it is to find that 
some people and some books are never boisterous, 
and yet they resemble sunshine — being at once bright 
and tranquil.' 

2 a 



3^4 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

I often go to Kew but I had not been for a long time 
in Miss North's Gallery. I was once more greatly im- 
pressed, the walls and the paintings are, of course, both 
overcrowded, but if any young person really wants 
to enjoy them, let them read her ' EeooUections of 
a Happy Life,' edited by her sister, Mrs. John Adding- 
ton Symonds. It is an amazing story of what a lone 
woman can do. So much of our interest in plant life 
is increased by knowing where they come from and 
what they are like in their far-away homes. I cannot 
pretend to compete with you in knowledge of modern 
novels, but I have read one lately, and wondered all the 
time if you knew it, for I admire it very much. It is 
by the American Winston Churchill and called by the 
uninspiring name of ' The Inside of the Cup.' I think it 
is calculated to do good, as it hits out hard at modem 
Pharisaical religion. The morality of all religions is 
more or less the same, only nobody practises them. 

M. T. Earle. 

Notes from Bedhazel. 

November 1st. — It is always a temptation to me to 
write about animals and when I come across a book 
written entirely from their point of view it is a great 
pleasure to me to think how many sympathetic souls 
there must be who feel as I do about our faithful friends 
— I was going to write ' furry friends ' and remembered 
some have hair and some have feathers and my poor 
humble sow, ' Eegina,' has only bristles (so unbe- 
coming !). This makes me think of the prim governess 
making pain of pleasure and asking her pupil ' Have 
cats fur or hair ? ' and the puzzled little boy's answer, 
' Have you never seen a cat ? ' ' Understudies,' by Mary 



NOVEMBER 355 

Wilkins, is a fascinating book, written with her usual 
wealth of detail and understanding of nature ; and 
to-day I have been reading a book by Maeterlinck called 
' My Dog ' ; in it he dwells on the wonderful way that 
dog nature accommodates itself to our human artificial 
life and with what great rapidity the young dog learns 
the many strange laws forced upon his notice. Putting 
into words the dog's view, he writes : ' How/much care 
and study are needed to succeed in fulfilling our duty ! 
and how complicated it has become since the days of 
silent caverns and the great deserted lakes ! It was 
so simple then, so easy and so clear. 

' But to-day you can no longer tell ; you have to 
acquaint yourself with a civilisation of which you 
disapprove, to appear to understand a thousand in- 
comprehensible things,' and ' How should we fare,' 
the author comments, ' if we had to serve while remain- 
ing within our own sphere a divinity not an imaginary 
one like to ourselves, because the offspring of our own 
brain, but a god actually visible, ever present, ever 
active and as foreign, as superior, to our being as we 
are to the dog ? ' How different is this calm reviewing 
of our relative positions, this deep understanding of the 
wonderful devotion given to man by his humble adorer, 
from the silly selfish infatuation lavished by some 
women on their utterly spoilt and therefore hopelessly 
uninteresting lap-dogs ? The woman who says she 
loves her dog, and pours out on him unappreciated 
caresses and at the same time ruins his health and 
destroys his natural out-of-door dog nature by over- 
feeding and a Ufe of pent-up artificiality, is no more 
a lover of animals than the driver detected in cruelty 

2a 2 



356 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

to his horse. The fashion of having a dog always in 
evidence is responsible for much cruelty, often quite 
undreamed of. And there is another side — ^what 
must our servants think, of the way many dogs are 
treated — considered before human beings, better fed 
and housed by far than many children ? And even 
when the dog-lover is genuine in her affection and cares 
for the real healthy general well-being of her pet, is 
invariably kind and not only by fits and starts, caress- 
ing one minute and cruelly repelling the next, is it 
right to spend aU one's highest affections on one who 
would be happy and satisfied with such a much 
humbler place ? Could no child be found, when money 
is no object, to reap the benefit of so much love, and 
room be made in a less sacred, intimate heart-warm 
spot for one who would stiU be happy and content 
even with only the crumbs of that affection ? I must 
quote a little dog poem to soften down my last 
paragraph. 

ON A TERRIER 

Crib, on your grave beneath the chestnut boughs 

To-day no fragrance falls nor Summer air. 

Only a master's love who laid you there 

Perchance may warm the earth 'neath which you drowse 

In dreams from which no dinner gong may rouse, 

Unwakeable, though close the rat may dare. 

Deaf, though the rabbit thumps in playful scare, 

Silent, though twenty tabbies pay their vows. 

And yet mayhap some night when shadows pass. 

And from the fir the brown owl hoots on high, 

Then should one whistle 'neath a favourite star. 

Tour small white shade shaU patter o'er the grass 

Questing for him you loved in days gone by 

Ere death the dog thief carried you afar. 

To those lonely souls to whom all else loving is denied 
I say, sincerely, ' Thank God for dogs.' 

4th. — ■! am at Woodlands, and went to Wisley 



NOVEMBER 357 

to-day. Except in the rock-garden there was very 
little still ih flower ; pansies and polyanthus were, 
of course, under the impression spring had come 
and made quite a show. Bamboos look always so 
strong and fresh in the autumn when other shrubs 
are at their worst. Trofoeolum s-peciosum does not do 
well at Wisley, the dry sandy soil is what it hates. The 
most lovely things in the garden were the Pernettyas 
or Prickly Heaths, an evergreen with coloured berries 
of the most lovely wine-red, pink, and white. It will 
grow in any soil except where lime is present ; it grows 
from layers or division. I must confess that it is only 
this year that I have grasped the difference between 
Cotoneasters and Pyracanthas. What is usually called 
Cotoneaster, an evergreen shrub which does well as a 
wall plant, has a white flower in May and bright scarlet 
berries in autumn, is also called Crataegus Pyracantha ; 
the relation to the thorn family can be felt if you try 
and handle it. The real Cotoneaster frigida is only sub- 
evergreen, that is, it loses a good many of its leaves in 
winter, they go a nice colour first and the berries are 
not in big clusters ; it has no thorns. C. microphylla 
is a trailer and looks very handsome grown at the top 
of the rock-garden falling over a big stone or used 
to carpet the ground on a bank. The gardeners were 
moving a large Crataegus Pyracantha on a trolly and 
we had a discussion about its name ; fortunately it was 
labelled and this it was that cleared my brain. Many 
people call it Pyracantha ^ as though that were its first 
name ; this is less idiotic than calling Pyrus ja-ponica 
simply Ja-ponica as if a plant were likely to be called 
simply ' Japanese,' but it is, nevertheless, very confusing. 

' I have heard since writing this that it has been decided it is 
to be called Pyracantha coccinea. 



358 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

One part of my kitchen garden was very wet and sodden 
last year, so I have had a trench dug and an old oil- 
barrel sunk and the overflow directed towards the ditch 
ia the road ; if sunk barrels are near a path it is neces- 
sary to have a cover to them and in any case young 
animals may fall in unless there is some sort of protec- 
tion, the least unsightly is made of rough branches with 
the bark on them, nailed together like a grill just the 
size of the top of the tub. In my old home we had 
a large water-barrel, with a lid on it, raised from the 
ground and one day I lifted the lid to get some soft 
water when, to my enormous surprise and consternation, 
two large booted feet and legs flew up, soles upwards, 
into the air ; instead of fainting I caught hold of 
them and to my intense relief I found they were not the 
legs of a drowned man but my brother's fishing waders 
put in the soft water to soak out any salt left in them 
after sea-trout fishing. Another fright I well remember 
was also connected with gardening. I was staying at 
the house of one of my sisters and doing some planting 
for her ; the newly-dug vine border looked an ideal 
place for some seedlings that had to be put out. I 
plunged my trowel into the soil and turned up a lump 
of thick congealed blood. I shall never forget the look 
of it ; I flew from the spot feeling I could never go near 
the place again ; what could it be ? Who had buried 
it ? Was it a body or only part of one ? When I had 
sufficiently recovered to speak coherently I went to 
the gardener and told him what I had found. ' Did 
you now, miss ; well it ain't nothing but some pig blood 
as I took and poured in at the vine roots, wonderful 
stimulating for the grapes, pig's blood is, for sure.' 
5th. — ^Almost every garden has a pergola of some 



NOVEMBER 359 

sort, either of mixed climbers or of roses, but a 
pergola of the different vines is not often seen and 
few amateurs realise their beauty and variety. Some 
knowledge of their growth and strength is necessary 
before planting them, as they vary quite as much in 
their vigour as do plants not related to one another, 
and planted at equal distances with no regard to this 
point would soon end in one or two varieties taking 
complete possession of the pergola ; the vines that 
one could not do without are best thought of first, 
and the others used if you have room. Of course an 
ideal pergola is one in which the supports are of stone 
and the crossbars of thick oak beams, but all this costs 
money and there are many ways of getting over 
difficulties, and the pergola of old vines we saw in 
Venice (described in April) is one way. The young 
vines were supported by the strength of the old stems, 
while their beauty and grace gave youth and lightness to 
the old age which had only durability and hardness, won 
by long life, to recommend it. The posts of the pergola 
should be of oak if you wish them to last a long time, let 
into beds of cement, and these must be connected and 
firmly secured to each other by long pieces of wood. 
The claret-coloured-leaved vine Vitis vinifera var. fur- 
furea should always be grown, it bears little black 
grapes in the late summer, which add much to the 
beauty of the handsome foliage : the most suitable con- 
trast to it is the common hardy vine, as the growth is 
much the same, but the bright green of foliage and fruit 
acts as a set-off to the purple colour. V. heterophylla 
var. humulifolia, the hop-leaved vine, bears in autumn 
turquoise-blue berries that excite great admiration. 
It is not a rampant grower and is quite delicate in its 



36o POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

progress through hfe, so must not be planted next to 
a strong pushing species ; a good companion would 
be V. Henryi, which is hardy but not vigorous, and 
whose leaves turn a lovely crimson in the autunm. 
A very strong grower is V. megalofhylla, a Chinese vine 
with large cleft leaves ; it will grow as much as ten 
feet in one season. V. Thuribergii is another strong free 
grower, it should not be much manured ; the foliage 
turns yellow, brown, and crimson in the autumn. 
V. vulpina, the Southern Fox Grape, has small leaves, 
shiny on both surfaces ; the flowers smeU of mignonette. 
V. armata has almost triangular bronze-green leaves. Its 
variety Veitchvi has stiU larger leaves, the plant climbs 
by means of spiny stems on the leaves. The first week 
in November would be a good time to plant them. 
V. heterophylla should have the warmest, most sheltered 
place but the poorest soil. A graceful climbing plant 
for a fence in an open sunny position is Polygonum 
baldschuanicum, or it can be draped over trees or 
bushes ; it has sprays of pale rose-tinted flowers in 
quantities during many weeks of the summer. We 
mentioned Wistarias in our other book but one can 
never praise them too much and they can be used in 
so many ways. There was one planted in a garden in 
Surbiton which grew up into a laburnum tree and the 
two flowering at the same time made a very lovely 
picture, the colours blending quite perfectly. With 
old fashioned well-known plants people are very apt 
to imagine there is only one sort, and to grow them 
only in one way : Veitch catalogues five kinds of 
Wistaria, one of which is a white one, and the double 
W. chvnensis var. flore fleno is one of the best. The 
trusses are very long ; it flowers later than the single ; 



NOVEMBER 361 

and the individual flowers, when floated in a bowl, 
look like Neapolitan violets. Wistarias grown as 
standards or as arches show their flowers to perfection 
and they usually flower twice a year. The beauty of 
their trunks as they grow older is very noticeable 
on old buildings, the one at Hampton Court near 
the vinery is a noble old specimen. A pergola against 
a wall is not often seen, but it is very effective if well 
done. The wall must be a high one, and the beams 
which form the roof must be slanted from the top 
of the wall to supports a good deal lower in height. 
In this way one sees the roses and other chmbers, 
when in bloom, to perfection. The bed should be 
planted in groups of one kind of plant between and 
in front of each upright support. 

26th. — I came home yesterday and the garden 
looks still very full and the work is endless. I have 
the lust of the nose to such a pitch that I can hardly 
keep my hands from picking a leaf from every sweet- 
smelling plant I come across. Looking through 
an old number of ' The Garden ' to-day I find the 
following description of a sweet-scented fern called, 
from the really pleasant odour of its leaves, the ' lemon- 
scented fern.' 'Although mainly a denizen of the 
mountains, it is by no means restricted to such, as we 
have ourselves found it in Epping Forest and also 
in Kent. It is, however, on the hill-side, bordering the 
slopes of mountain streams, or on rough or dry ground 
that we find it in quantity, pushing up its clumps of 
yellowish green fronds in profusion. At first sight 
it bears some resemblance to the common male fern, 
growing as that does in shuttlecock fashion from 
central crowns, but apart from its different tint and 



362 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

characteristic odour when passed through the hand 
it differs from that species by its lanceolate bipinnate 
fronds having no naked stalk at the bottom. The 
male fern has a frond commencing some distance 
up the stalk with longish side divisions imparting 
somewhat of a trowel shape, but Lastrea montana 
Oreopteris begins with roimded lobes right at the 
base and these gradually lengthen for two-thirds of 
the length and then taper gradually to the top. . . . 
With a Uttle attention to its particular tastes it does 
very well as a pot plant and is particularly free from 
insect pests. It likes a pure yellow loam of a friable 
crumbly nature instead of the usual compost of loam 
and leaf-mould. It requires good drainage. Its 
antipathies are lime and hard water or drought at 
its roots. Out of doors it must have an open loamy 
situation in a position where it gets plenty of light.' 
I shall not be happy till I have got this treasure. 

27th. — I had to go shopping to Southsea to-day ; 
Portsmouth Harbour seems to look its very best 
every time I see it. To-day I came home in the 
afternoon, and, crossing in the little halfpenny steam 
ferry to Gosport, watched the sinking sun lighting up 
the shapes of the battleships — always such a contrast 
to the beautiful old Victory lying at anchor. Ports- 
mouth's importance dates from the reign of Henry VIII. 
when Porchester Castle was the guardian of this part 
of the coast, but there had been a small town there 
since a period soon after the Conquest. In 1290 the 
first oranges ever seen in England were brought to this 
port by a Spanish vessel and purchased for the Castilian 
Queen of Edward I. Adam Molyns, Keeper of the 
Privy Seal, was killed here in 1450 by exasperated 



NOVEMBER 363 

sailors when receiving from him their wages for his 
' bolster language and abrigging of their wages.' In 1628 
King James's favourite, ' Steenie ' Villiers, Duke of 
Buckingham, was killed by Pelton ; the murder took 
place in a house in the interesting old High Street, No. 
12 — it was then an inn. As Felton struck the Duke he 
prayed ' May God have mercy on your soul ! ' Felton's 
body was hung on Southsea Common after his execution. 
In the hall of the King's Head, Charles II. was married 
to Catherine of Braganza, poor bride — ' the very little 
woman with a pretty tolerable face.' One wonders if 
the warning she had had before she left Portugal of the 
too intimate relations existing between Charles and the 
young and beautiful Mrs. Palmer, afterwards Countess 
of Castlemaine, filled her with any forebodings of the 
indignities she would have to endure in her miserable 
married life. Her mother had instructed her on no 
account to receive the Countess at Court or even to allow 
her name to be mentioned in her presence. Poor soul, 
she was obliged in the end to submit to Lady Castle- 
maine becoming one of her bed-chamber women. The 
interesting little museum in the High Street has, among 
other curiosities, many models of ships carved by the 
French soldiers out of meat-bones. Had I hved at the 
beginning of the last century some of these French 
soldiers would have been my neighbours, as many of 
them were lodged in Bishops Waltham. The execution 
of Admiral Byng for not having done his utmost to 
save Minorca to England took place in 1757 on board 
the ship Monarque in the harbour. The loss of the 
Bioyal George, which sacrificed the hves of 1000 people, 
mostly visitors to the ship which was in the harbour 
for repairs, took place in August 1782, and it was not 



364 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

till 1844 that the last remains of the wreck were brought 
up from the bottom of the harbour. One of the most 
picturesque parts of the town is behind the High Street, 
near the Trade Harbour and the floating bridge. I 
always look with interest at the old earthworks on the 
road from Gosport to Fareham which make such snug- 
looking httle houses with grass-covered roofs. The 
name Gosport was originally ' God's Port ' ; Henry de 
Blois, who seems to have done so much for this part of 
Hampshire, gave the place this name when he found 
shelter there from a storm. 

Roses are everywhere, but while each year new 
kinds are cultivated, why, oh ! why, are the old sweet- 
scented kinds neglected ? They are so very attractive. 
Only the largest rose-growers keep the old sorts, as 
there is little demand for them. The Apothecary rose 
is semi-double bright crimson, B. lucida has glossy 
foliage which turns red in the autumn, B. microfhylla 
(the double one) has beautiful fruit and grows into a tree, 
B. damascena is one of the sweetest-scented, B. gallica 
var. violacea is intense velvety crimson, B.' centifolia 
is a cabbage rose and deUciously fragrant. The Burnet 
rose is a dwarf native kind, grows only six to nine 
inches high, and has jet-black fruit after the white 
flowers. 'Rosa Mundi' is usually called York and 
Lancaster, but it is distinct from the true York and 
Lancaster. ' Cottage Maid,' white striped with rose, 
is very pretty, and the old moss is always fascinating. 
I was driving through a village near my home to-day 
with a friend who lived there as a child and she told 
me that an old rector of the parish in the middle of 
the nineteenth century had been imprisoned for 
appropriating Church money with which he built 



NOVEMBER 365 

himself a new rectory. He remained rector and 
every Sunday drove over to his parish, accompanied 
by a warder, who sat in the front pew while his prisoner 
preached to the congregation, after which he drove 
back to Winchester Gaol. The rate at which we have 
progressed during the last fifty years makes elderly 
people seem much older than they are. I think children 
should always be taken to see notable sights; they 
remember them with so much pleasure in after hfe. 
My father was always glad that he had been taken at 
the age of five to the opening of one of the first railways 
in England, that between Manchester and Liverpool, 
in 1830. It was on this occasion that Mr. Huskisson, 
formerly Colonial Secretary, was knocked down by an 
engine and died from the injuries. The reason why it 
took from 1802 to 1814 to stimulate the energies of 
engineers to put to use the invention of a locomotive 
for passenger traffic was partly owing to their imiversal 
behef that the locomotive could not be expected to 
gain great speed, to ascend a moderate incline, or to 
draw a heavy load unless the wheels were provided with 
a cogged rim to work on a corresponding rack along 
the rails. It was not tiU 1811 that Trevethick invented 
one running on smooth wheels which could draw heavy 
loads up a slight hill. The sight of the first train carmot 
have been very alarming on account of speed, and the 
spectator must have had plenty of time to look at it, 
as the Stockton and Darlington railway's locomotives' 
rate of progress was that of the walk of a horse. Tram- 
ways were, of course, used for years for drawing coal in 
mining districts. 

28th. — Walking home to-night in the dark I 
began to think of my winter here when I went 



366 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

out every evening as soon as it was dark, with 
my watch-dog collie, before Ehoda the wolfhound 
came. There was never a dull moment with that 
collie, he flew at everyone including myself — it is a 
terrifying experience to have a big dog fly at one 
and yet at the same time it gives one a feeliug of 
wanting to see it out, to stand one's ground and defy 
the brute and take the consequences. One day when 
he tried to bite me I drew the barn-door to, and not 
being able to get at me he gnawed the post of the door 
in rage, and yet he was really devoted to me, but had 
never been trained and had an ungovernable temper. 
These remembrances of my poor collie started me 
off on the frightfully .difficult and complicated subject 
of self-control ; how it can be taught and how best 
this should be done. The legend, beheved in childhood, 
that self-control comes with age is not worth considering, 
nor is it fair to let children grow up in this behef ; 
not only is the shock of seeing some grown-up person 
in a temper an undermining of all cherished beliefs, 
but the idea that there is any magic in age, and that 
the years will do what the will has failed to accomplish, 
is weakening to the character. All help given to 
children and young people should surely be of a 
strengthening character and given with the idea of 
preparing them for the unevenness and unexpectedness 
of life. To teach children that there is always justice 
in life and the right wUl triumph in any outward form 
is cruel. Teach them that what matters is that their 
spirit shall survive the conflict and be on the right 
side, that work is worth while with no hope of seeing 
the end, that to strive is our duty and often it must 
be the beginning, the continuing, and the ending ; 



NOVEMBER 367 

that to seem to fail is not necessarily failure, and that 
the scheme of Nature is too vast for us to expect 
to see our minute corner of the pattern finished before 
the rest reaches the stage of any perceptible advance. 
How one longs to help young people through the 
difficult stage of growing-up and how despairing is 
the feeling that nothing we suffered ourselves is the 
least use to them ; they must face the disillusions 
and pick up the broken pieces of their idols for them- 
selves, and the more they have been sheltered in their 
childhood, the more their arguments and quarrels 
have been judged and fairly settled, the more the 
irritations of life have been kept from them, so much 
the more will they suffer, and so much the less will 
their characters be steeled to remain unspoiled by all 
they must face alone. Outsiders see most of the 
game, and women without home ties have all the 
more opportunity of going about and seeing the inside 
of other people's lives. One thing that depresses 
me is the way the best and most devoted mothers 
spoil their teaching by letting their children see how 
they are being watched. Children adore acting with 
an audience, and the minute they feel they have the 
full attention of some ' grown-up ' they begin to play 
on their feelings and to shock or please the devoted 
watcher as the spirit moves them. This artificiality 
may be amusing to anyone who thinks only of the 
present, but the probable result in after life is not 
pleasant to contemplate. I used to see a good deal 
of a large family of sons and daughters with very 
high and strong tempers; they had a good deal of 
individuality and variety in taste and opinions ; it 
was the sort of family that usually quarrel among 



368 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

themselves all their youth, and separate with sighs 
of relief directly they are able to do so, but this did 
not happen. There was one rule in that house that 
was never allowed to be broken: quarrelling was 
forbidden, no matter who began it or what it was 
about, directly the storm gathered it had to be stopped 
— no arguing, no justifying was allowed. One strong 
character, with the courage and self-control equal to 
any occasion, ruled the house, and the family grew up 
united and devoted, and one of the daughters once 
told me that so accustomed was she to the idea that 
to lose one's temper was not only contemptible but 
indecent, that when, at the age of eighteen she stayed 
in a house where the father and son quarrelled at the 
dinner table, she thought the world had come to an 
end. If parents would only believe — provided their 
example carries out their precept — ^how much children 
are helped to govern themselves by beiug taught that 
want of self-control is contemptible, and a thing to 
be ashamed of, also that to irritate anyone who is 
irritable by nature is as mean as to be in a temper 
is wicked, and therefore, when there is a quarrel, to 
treat both young culprits with equal severity is 
really fair and much the best preparation for what 
they must expect in life. Violent temper in childhood 
is usually a matter of health, and, of course, I think 
that diet immensely helps all self-control. Teach 
a child with a violent temper that it is like a spasm 
of iUness and that it can be cured by no one but the 
child himself, and that, when he feels it coming on, 
he may, when it is possible, go away into another room 
and fight it down alone. Teach him to be proud of 
getting the better of it, ashamed that anyone, most 



NOVEMBER 369 

of all anyone of a less trained and educated class, 
should see his naked animal-like exhibition of passion. 
So many people now have lady nurses for their children 
that it is hardly necessary to mention what an ad- 
vantage it is to children to be always with a trained 
educated woman, such as are supplied by the Norland 
Institution. Children's tempers are so often ruined by 
the ignorance of an under- nurse ; and why should we 
expect an inexperienced, girl of sixteen or seventeen, 
accustomed only to the rough and tumble of her own 
home, to have the tact and patience to deal with a 
tiresome child who has tired out our patience and 
whom we are often glad to send away to the nursery ? 
The sad superabundance of girls of gentle birth, obliged 
to go out to earn their living, makes it quite possible 
to have both the nurses of the same class, and the 
profession is a far less crowded and less arduous one 
than that of hospital nursing. 

Some people seem to think of childhood as a 
tiresome period to be got over, and their attitude is 
one of general disapproval so well expressed in the 
order ' Go and see what the children are doing and tell 
them they mustn't.' Surely it is in reality a most 
precious time, of which one should take the full advan- 
tage. No one has expressed better than Eudyard 
Kipling the right ideal to set before a child ; his poem 
' If ' strikes the note of courage and self-discipline in 
a way I think quite perfect. 

I heard a most amazing story to-day of two old 
sisters living in the country ; they shared a lady's- 
maid and found one they liked extremely well, she was 
so attentive and obliging ; after she had been with 
them a short while they found their beautiful silver 

2b 



370 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

was being stolen and replaced by plate. They sent 
for a detective, who arrived disguised as a clergyman, 
and after family prayers at night he amazed them by 
taking their very superior maid by the arm and saying, 
' Well, I have got you this time, Jim.' ' Jim ' was 
a well-known criminal much wanted by the poUce. 

Last time I was at Wisley I much admired the Col- 
chicums planted under the trees on a sloping bank : 
one side of a dry ditch is straight and the side near 
the path is sloped very gradually and planted with 
shade-loving plants. This sort of gardening requires 
constant watching, as the strong things grow so fast, 
the weakest go to the wall. I found the origin of this 
expression to-day : it comes from there having been no 
seats in churches except along the waU where the weak 
and infirm sat ; it has quite changed its meaning as we 
use it now. The leaves of the Colchicums, which come 
up in spring, are an unsightly surprise to those who do 
not expect them ; they must not be planted where 
cattle can find the leaves, as they are poisonous ; 
brought into the house in bud the flowers open in a 
warm room and are very welcome on a late autumn 
day. Saffron is made of the dried stigmas of Crocus 
sativus and C. longifloms, but the old name of the 
Colchicum was saffron. I have been in a state of great 
indecision for some time about how to make use of old 
bricks to form a kind of rough background for certain 
creeping plants which like very little soil at their roots 
and are so easily choked with weeds as to be quite 
unsuitable for the rock-garden. I am so absolutely 
without creative talent that ideas come to me very 
slowly and usually the germ belongs in some way to 
another mind. To-day I was disinclined to work 



NOVEMBER 371 

and began aimlessly looking through some illustrated 
papers. My eye was arrested by what I at first thought 
was a design for a garden, but it was in reality a photo- 
graph of the excavation going on at the foot of Mount 
Lucretilis which was commenced in 1911, of what is sup- 
posed to be part of the villa where Horace lived for 
thirty years and in which he wrote a number of odes. 
The picture showed a wide path and at either side were 
the remains of walls only eighteen inches high, and this 
is how I mean to use my stones, built up roughly and 
the line broken here and there by a shrub growing out 
of and above the line of bricks in the way that even trees 
grow in old ruins. The path cannot be long, as my 
space is so limited, but a high wall would take more 
bricks than I can afford and would hide too much of 
the garden ; this low border will, I think, be pretty and 
uncommon. 

29th. — ^I have begun to have a small plot 
dug out to accommodate plants which enjoy damp 
soil. A rough path is being dug, gettiog deeper in 
the middle, the clay taken out to the depth of three 
feet at the deepest part : this will fill in the winter and 
I shall throw into it aU the green refuse I can find and 
by the spring this will have rotted. I shall have this 
cleared out and used on the path to increase my supply 
of black earth which is the sort of soil I want for my 
plants. I can drain this hole into the road ditch by 
pipes at a certain height, so there wiU be a high-water 
mark above which I can grow ferns and other damp- 
lovers. The earth dug out will be freed from all grass 
and weeds and thrown up in rough mounds near the 
boundary hedge by the roadside and planted with 
some groups of shrubs ; all this, of course, will be on a 

<2b2 



372 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

very small scale. I wish I had more room to grow 
loganberries — they are such useful fruit ; those we 
bottled this year seem keeping very well"; the jam, 
too, is delicious. A cottage neighbour of mine has two 
bushes trained as a hedge and off these she picks many 
pounds in the season. She was able one day to let me 
have eight pounds from one picking — ^the older the bush 
the heavier the crop. As soon as the fruit is picked the 
old fruiting wood should be cut out and the new wood 
tied in. The Japanese wineberry is pretty and bears 
a useful fruit, but is much smaller and so apt to be eaten 
by birds that it needs protection. It requires the same 
culture as the raspberry and likes a lot of water in 
dry weather. This year I am planting two trees of 
Bullace, one of the best croppers is called Langley 
Bullace, the fruit ripens early in November. Bullaces 
do very well in Hampshire and are useful when 
plums are over. Between the cottage garden and 
the kitchen garden a bank of old clay, planted with 
trees, was almost completely hidden by ground ivy 
and the lowest branches of a nut and brambles. I had 
them cut away and found some inches of good earth, 
made by generations of leaves rotting, so I have planted 
it with mixed daffodil bulbs, aconites, and snowdrops, 
and put in primrose roots and polypody ferns from 
the lanes. I saw a bank of clay in a friend's field 
very prettily treated this summer. The clay was thrown 
out of some excavation and had looked bare and ugly ; 
my friend planted it with groups of every sort of wild 
flower that grows in her neighbourhood, making it a 
rule to take some plant back with her wherever she 
went for a country walk ; the effect was charming. 
Barr sends out his Clearance Sale List now and many 



NOVEMBER 373 

uncommon things can be bought cheap. I wrote this 
morning for Narcissus nanus, the dwarf single narcissus, 
to put in a bank among primroses ; Corydalis bulbosa 
for the same place, a neat thing that flowers in spring 
and does well under trees ; some Ixias which do not need 
planting early as the flower is so late ; Jack in the Green 
{Anemone nemorosa hracteata /?. fl.) will increase rapidly; 
it is the double form of the white wUd wood anemone. 
Fritillaria Meleagris is the Snake 's-head fritillary which 
grows wild in the meadows near Oxford ; it gets the 
name Meleagris from the likeness to a pea-hen. What 
a bold poet was Matthew Arnold to make the name 
scannable in his lines : 

I know what white, what purple fritillaries 

The grassy harvest of the river-fields 

Above by Ensham, down by Sandford yields. 

TAyrais. 

It is a most charming plant as it takes up so little 
room and the leaves are small and die away quickly, 
always an advantage with bulbs. I am going to 
plant some Michaelmas daisies in the field where the 
poultry run. I saw an enclosed chicken-yard last 
summer quite pretty with shrubs, and down the middle 
there was a row of Jerusalem artichokes; they were 
protected till a foot high, after that the chickens left 
them alone. I rode over to see some people to-day 
who live on the edge of some of the old forest and have 
in their garden what is quite usual about here — sand, 
gravel, clay, and loam. There was a big bunch of the 
rose 'Frau Karl Druschki,' big well- shaped flowers; 
this after three sharp frosts spoke well for the strength 
of the flowers. I took up all the remaining 
Chrysanthemums from the beds and put them in the 



374 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

reserve garden, throwing away some that flowered too 
late to be of any use out of doors ; I had a shelter 
made in the tea-house. All the tubs of Hydrangeas and 
Agapanthus are put there and thick bracken laid on 
stakes of wood ; they will do much better there than if 
taken in to a dry warm place which encourages growth. 
To grow herbaceous borders in waves of colour, shading 
from one to another in harmony, is, to my mind, the 
most perfect way, but it can only be done where there 
are reserve plants to be drawn from and plenty of 
labour is available. It can be done on a small scale 
with annuals, but experience is needed to select the 
right colours and get a succession. It is best to begin 
with red, which should shade through brown to yellow, 
the orange shade first and then the pale lemon, a good 
mauve can come next shading to blue and the strongest 
at the end can be next to white, which should grow up 
into blush and end with strong pink and crimson. I can- 
not give enough time or space to such an arrangement 
myself, but I have seen it done to perfection, and will 
give a suggestive list of plants in colours from which to 
choose. I shall give only such plants as flower in May 
on to August and September, as this kind of garden is 
almost impossible if you want it to be for spring and late 
autumn, as the big gaps caused by resting plants would 
break up the scheme of colour and make the whole thing 
look meaningless. Many gardens are only required 
to look well in the summer, so many people spending 
the duller months of the year from home, or if a garden 
is large enough such a bed as I am describing can be 
used for summer beauty only and other things for spring 
and autumn pleasure grown elsewhere. To begin with 
the red. The Oriental poppies will bloom early and 



NOVEMBER 375 

make a fine show ; Monarda didyma is not often seen ; 
the brick shades of Antirrhinum can be used, dwarf 
red Nasturtiums, ' Scarlet Queen ' and ' King of Tom 
Thumbs ' for the border and ' Black Priace,' ' Brilliant,' 
and ' Lucifer ' to climb at the back ; to keep up the 
succession the back should be planted with ' Eed-hot 
Poker ' Tritoma (or Kniphofia), Uvaria, T. corallina and 
T. Pfizeri. A large patch of Montbretia and Carnation 
Grenadin Lobelia cardinalis and L. ' Queen Victoria,' 
if sown in heat in March, can be had in bloom the same 
year, and, covered with coal-ashes, the roots will survive 
the winter. The best poppies to sow wUl be ' Scarlet 
Cardinal ' and ' Mephisto,' in the grey-leaved, and 
' Single Scarlet ' in the Shirley ; these must be sown 
very thinly and broadcast and thinned out very severely. 
Salvias ' Scarlet Queen ' and • Firefly ' should be kept in 
pots to plant out in July when the annuals are over. A 
group of Sweet Peas — Sutton's ' Frilled Scarlet,' ' Scarlet 
Paradise,' ' Queen Alexandra,' or ' Scarlet Gem ' — 
looks well. Nemesia and Jacobea terra-cotta should be 
near the front with Mignonette to give relief to the 
eye. Other aimuals that can be used to fill up the front 
are Emilia sagittata (such a name ! ), Alonsoa acutifolia, 
Zinnia (scarlet) and Verbena (Sutton's scarlet). Some 
grey foliage plants should be used at the front to tone 
down the colour, the bedding Centaurea ragusina, 
Gerastiwm tomentosum, Cineraria maritima, and some 
plants of sea-kale. A big group of Cannas, Bed 
Begonias, and some large plants of Pelargonium 
' Paul Crampel,' Pelargonium ' Unique Aurora ' could 
be used if one is not bigoted about bedding plants. 
Dahlias — ' Advance,' ' Beacon,' ' The Pilot ' — ^will come 
on later. The gradual shading to orange through 



376 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

brown can be done by groups of lilies, IMium hulbiferum, 
L. canadense, and L. Batemani. Then perennial and 
annual Gaillardias, Giant Musk, Mimulus cardinalis and 
M. cwpreus, French Marigolds, brown Calceolarias and 
Salpiglossis, Golden-yellow, and Sutton's new red Sun- 
flower, orange Day Lilies {Hemerocallis aurantiaca) 
and orange African Marigolds, Dahlia ' Eadium ' and 
the ' Star,' orange Zinnia, Helenium autumnale, 
Patrinia Mspida, HeUanthtis of sorts, Budbeckia 
Newmani, Scabiosa lutea, Potentilla, Hemerocallis 
■fiava. To come to the yellows, one has endless 
variety to choose from : Doronicum ' Harpur Crewe,' 
two and a half feet, will flower a second time if cut 
down ; Woad, three feet, can be thrown away after 
it has flowered early in June ; the yellow Lily Lilium 
monadelphum Szovitsianum can be planted near; yellow 
Violas will be at the extreme edge with more Nastur- 
tiums, Eschscholzias, and Coreopsis of sorts. There 
are two shades of yellow among the Anthemis : tmctoria 
is bright yellow and Kelwayi lemon-yellow. Alyssum 
saxatile should be at the edge and renewed every two 
years as the old plants get shabby ; there is a pale 
shade [A. s. citrinum) which is very attractive. The 
yellow Columbine Aquilegia lutea should be planted in 
groups, the plants rather close together and you can 
plant the pale-yellow Gladiolus ' Victory ' among them. 
Crown Imperials should only be used by those who wish 
this part of the garden gay in May, they must be 
planted among a group of Oenothera Youngii if your 
soil is strong. Yellow dahlias ' Minnie West ' and ' Mrs. 
J. J. Crowe ' ; Budbeckia laciniata, which grows five 
to six feet high, must be planted quite at the back : the 
tones must be brought down to soft lemon colour with 
Antirrhinum ' Cloth of Gold,' a big group of Calceolaria 



NOVE|IBER 377 

amflexicaule (two feet), yellow tree lupins (three and a 
half feet), Annual Chiysanthemunis ; TrolUus and 
Adonis vernalis, both one and a half feet, which flower 
in June. Nasturtium ' Pearl ' ; yellow Marguerite 
Carnation, and for late flowering the outdoor Chrysan- 
themums ' Carrie,' 'Elstob yellow,' ' Jason,'and ' Captain 
Webb,' can be kept in pots till there is room for them. 
If the bed is large enough a group of Iris flavescens 
would be beautiful early in the year and a few Spanish 
Iris ' Belle Chinoise.' lAlium Hansoni flowers also in 
June. There are good yellow Tritonias which would 
come in for August. T. 'Triumph orange' and T. 
' Goldelse ' flower from July to September. Other yellow 
annuals, from which one may choose, are Venidium, 
TageteSyjeilow Ten- Week Stock, Sanvitalia, Platystemon, 
Phlox Drummondi, grandiflora lutea, Nemesia, pale 
yellow Linaria maroccana ' Yellow Prince,' Dimnan- 
thes Douglasi, Leptosipkon Stillmani, Sweet Pea 
' Primrose Paradise ' and ' Paradise Ivory,' Dimor- 
'photheca aurantiaca. Oxalis valdiviana will seed itself 
everywhere as will also the yellow Welsh poppy {Mecon- 
opsis cambrica), both charming things. The Iceland 
poppy is best sown in a frame in August and planted out 
in Spring, but if sown early will bloom the same year. 
On reaching the mauve flowers, one's thoughts do not 
fly so quickly from one treasure to another but stiU there 
are some charming things. The temptation is to give 
too much room to Michaelmas daisies. But to begin 
earlier in the year : Adenophora strida, three feet high, 
likes a strong soil and damp subsoil; they are uncommon 
plants which seed readily but are impatient of division 
and dislike being transplanted. The purple Sweet 
Eocket is a biennial and should be renewed every year ; 
it flowers in May. There are some lovely purple 



378 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

Irises : 1. germanica major and I. g. ' Siwas ' can be 
planted with bulbs of English Iris ' Lord Eoberts,' and 
the ' Sultan ' and Spanish Iris ' Blue Beauty,' in front a 
big group of Erigeron speciosus and E. macranthus, 
Galega Hartlandi, Delphinium ' Mrs. Eoper,' Pansies 
'Giant Purple,' ' Silver- laced' bedder, and Violas ' Mauve 
Queen' and 'Montana.' Sweet Pea ' Paradise Violet,' 
' Mrs. Herbert Hemus,' Sutton's ' Frilled Pale Mauve,' 
Sweet Sultan ' Giant Mauve,' Scabious ' Azure Fairy,' 
purple Jacobea, the tall Opium Poppy Sutton's ' Mauve 
Queen,' mau've Linaria, Gilia capitata, a most attractive 
httle annual eighteen inches high, and another pretty 
annual Collinsia bicohr, nine inches high. Phacelia 
congesta is a mauve annual twelve inches high. The 
smallest armual of all is lonopsidium acaule, rock cress, 
only two inches high. Heliotrope can be kept back in 
pots and grown tall and dwarf to plant in patches where 
anything has gone off or failed. The early-flowering 
Chrysanthemums are all too pink in shade to go well 
in a mauve patch. Some Petunias might be used, one 
described as violet with no tinge of magenta. Few 
people use Primulas as bedding plants, but P. ohconica 
win flower in half shade all the summer as faithfully 
as it did all the winter, wonderful plant ! BrowalUa elata 
nana, one and a half foot high, is a half-hardy annual 
a blue shade of violet. Dracoce'phalum Moldavicum is a 
foot high and is very uncommon. Viscaria caerulea 
is blue only as a courtesy title, the colour wiU be best 
among the mauve flowers — ^it is a foot high and very 
pretty. Phloxes can be kept in the reserve garden tfll 
July and then moved with a good ball of earth. P. 
' Derviche,' P. ' Esclarmonde,' P. ' Iris ' and P. ' Paul 
Bert ' are all mauve. Michaelmas daisies must be chosen 
with care ; for the back. Aster ' Beauty of Colwall,' A. 



NOVEMBER 379 

' Munstead Purple ' and ' Eyeoroft Purple ' ; for the 
front, A. gloriosa, A. ' Ringdove,' A. acris, A. nanus, 
and A. Amellus. 

China Asters will be quite useful, but be sure you get 
the right kinds from a good plaoe and do not sow 
them too early or they will either damp off or flower 
in August, which is not wanted ; the best mauves are 
called blue ; it is a little delusion of nurserymen that 
Sweet Peas, Pansies, and Asters can be got blue, but do 
not you be let into putting either into the blue part of 
your bed — they .are all mauve. Comet Asters are tall, 
with flowers like Japanese Chrysanthemums ; that is 
said in the catalogues and is also quite true. The 
' Ostrich Plume ' is another tall graceful Aster, described 
as having ' azure-blue ' flowers ; they are a nice mauve. 
I think the best of all is the single mauve ; it is from 
two to two and a half feet high and has loose turning- 
back petals. Some of the little Pompon Dahlias are 
very attractive and there is a mauve one which is 
like an old country-woman's Sunday gown. Along the 
extreme edge some of the Campanulas will look well. 
C. dbietma has dainty purple flowers, C. carpathica 
' Eiverslea ' has violet-blue flowers, G. fulla is dark 
purple, also G. glomerata acaulis. The taller 
Campanulas wiU mix in well with the deeper shades 
of mauve. G. latifolia Burghalti is two feet high, the 
flowers are a lilac shade. C. I. macrantha sometimes 
grows five feet high with purple flowers, and G. I. 
paMida has soft pale purple. It is dif&cult to know 
where to put G. persicifolia, the colour is so elusive, 
as is also that of the handsome Chimney Campanula 
{G. fyramidalis) ; they are best left out the first year 
and room found for them later when you have seen 
the border in flower and discovered the place where they 



38o POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

wiU look best. Canterbury BeUs die so untidily that 
I do not advise them being planted except elsewhere 
alone, though there are good purple and mauve shades. 
Geranium grandiflorum is another flower which can go 
on the border land as the colour is violet-blue, its 
flowering time is short but while it lasts it is very 
handsome and the leaves turn a lovely red in the 
autumn. G. ibericum is taller and has handsome foliage. 
The mauve is best toned into blue by a large patch of 
Delphinium of the intermediate shades, D. vestitum, 
dark purple, D. ' Fabia,' silvery mauve, D. ' Lavender,' 
a name which describes itself, D. ' Wilson,' violet 
blue, and Larkspurs, pale mauve and light blue. There 
is a beautiful Lupin which is shot with blue and mauve. 
It is among Sutton's hardy perennials and would be a 
splendid half tone to break the mauve and blue patch. 
The flowers for the next division will need very careful 
planting, blues kill each other so savagely when such 
glaring contrasts as Commelina coelestis, which is the 
most vivid, almost peacock shade of blue, meets such a 
blue as Phacelia cam'panulata with an almost Eeckitt's 
shade of intensity. Of course the largest group will be 
the real blue, the perennial Delphiniums such as ' Bella 
Donna,' ' Persimmon,' ' Apemantus,' ' MUton,' ' Ultra- 
marine,' &c., all of which have no mauve or purple tint. 
D. grandiflorum has the advantage of flowering the 
first year from seed, it is a graceful little plant, only two 
feet high, and should be planted in a group ; the flowers 
are intense blue, called in water-colour ' French blue.' 
The annual Larkspur are much the same colour. 
Anchusa italica is one of the most useful of blue flowers 
as it lasts on and off for many months on strong 
soil ; the ' Dropmore ' variety is a good bright blue 



NOVEMBER 381 

and ' Opal ' is a soft pale blue. There are a few Salvias 
that can be used : Salvia patens is by far the best, but 
it must be taken up every autumn and housed like 
a Dahlia safe from frost. 

Salvia ringens is half shrubby, two and a half feet 
high ; S. azurea grandiflora is true to its name. Adeno- 
phora Potanini is dwarfish with large blue flowers and 
requires the same treatment as A. strida. Columbines 
are such graceful things they will repay the trouble of 
growing, and their tiresome habit of dying out must be 
borne with patience. Aquilegia glandulosa is the best 
blue but the older A. caerulea is very lovely. Aconitum 
cMnense and A. Napellus Braunii are both tall ; in 
using them remember the roots are poisonous. All the 
sea hollies are beautiful: Eryngium giganteum, three and 
a half feet ; E. alpinum, two or three feet ; E. mariti- 
mum, one foot ; E. Oliverianum, three feet, with flowers 
of intense amethyst blue. The Iris tribe have some real 
blue flowers : Iris asiatica, I. pallida, I. Mandraliscae, 
English Iris 'Bleue Celeste,' and Spanish Iris 'Blue 
Gem,' ' La Nuit,' and ' Menelik.' There are more annuals 
in the blue list than herbaceous plants. The Ageratum 
have been spoilt by dwarfing, but a group of the tall 
kind A. mexicanum would look well, but they are a 
mauve shade of blue, so must be planted with care. 
Anchusa capensis is a hardy annual, one and a half feet 
high ; Asperula azurea setosa, one foot high. The 
Swan Eiver daisy Brachycome iberidifolia is a mauve 
shade of blue and Eutoca viscida has deep blue flowers 
one foot high. The cornflower tribe are true blue. Cen- 
taurea montana is perennial and flowers early in June, 
and the annual C. cyanus caeruleus need only be sown 
once as it repeats itself every year. One of the most 



382 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

charming of all blue flowers is flax Linum narhonense : 
it grows easily from seed. ' Love-in-a-Mist ' is not an 
easy blue to match, but if the best one, Nigella ' Miss 
Jekyll,' is grown, there should be a big patch filled with 
it. Phacelia cami'panularia has charming leaves with 
bronze veins and the flowers are a splendid blue ; it 
is only three quarters of a foot high. White flowers 
hardly need enumerating as the majority of plants have 
a white variety ; they are easy to arrange as height is 
the only thing of which one has to think. The white 
DelpMrdum hybridum ' Polar Star ' is only two and a 
half feet high, and the aimual larkspur D. Ajacis 
album is one and a half foot high, white Lupins, white 
Phloxes, white Sweet Peas, white Achillea Ptarmica, 
two feet, the tall AntirrM/nums, two and a half feet. 
Chrysanthemum maximum ' Edward VII.' three 
feet, and Pyreihrum uUginosum five feet, both flower in 
autumn; the single Pyrethrums are good both double 
and single for making a show in June. Iberis semfer- 
vkens is perennial and evergreen. The border should 
be planted with low-growing plants of such habit : 
Cerastium, white Violas, and double Arabis, which could 
be taken out in July and the space "filled with some 
low-growing white annuals such as Omphdlodes linifolia. 
Candytuft, or Linaria maroccana ' Pearl,' and Sweet 
Alyssum. This would be sufficient for the white patch, 
which should only be large enough to divide the blue 
from the pink, but, as a choice, I will mention some 
other plants from which to choose. Anemone japonica 
is best planted in the spring and will flower well when 
once established. Campanulas of sorts : 'persicaefolia 
alba Moerheimii is the best variety. C. -pyramidalis 
four to five feet, and C. allia/riaefolia, three feet ; and for 



NOVEMBER 383 

the front, C. carfathica ' White Star.* Gypsophila 
'paniculata fl. fl. is so much more satisfactory than the 
old single and lasts longer. 

Dictamnus Fraxinella albus should be grown from 
seed ; it grows two feet high but does not flower for two 
years. The large white Funkia subcordata grandiflora 
is very striking looking and has very handsome foliage. 
Of white half-hardy annuals perhaps the most satis- 
factory are Petunia hybrida alba, white Stocks, Asters 
' Comet ' and ' Plume,' Scabious ' Snowball,' Tobacco 
plant, Nicotiana afflnis, Helichrysum ' Silver Ball,' one 
and a half foot, Brachycome ' White Star,' half a foot, 
and Balsams, two feet. 

There are few perennials in pale pink. Anemone 
jafonica elegans is soft rose-colour ; Pyrethrum ' Free- 
dom,' flesh-coloured, Antirrhi/num ' Eomeo,' Phlox 
' Langport Henley,' the new hybrid Lupin (roseus), 
and Hollyhock {Althaea rosea). The best annuals 
are Malofe rosea, Godetia riMcunda ' The Bride,' Clarkia 
' Queen Mary,' Verbena ' Mayflower,' Candytuft 
Iberis rosea. A good plant with which to commence the 
crimson patch is Agrostemma, but care must be taken 
to get those of a good colour. The grey foliage is very 
beautiful. Pyrethrum ' Fire Dragon ' is a good colour 
and Sweet Williams can be had in very lovely crimson 
shades, and others of the Dianthus tribe are useful. 
' Crimson Bell ' is the best of the HeddewigH section, 
Antirrhinum ' Black Prince ' is called purple but ia 
reaUy a rich dark crimson. Stocks can be had in 
succession by growing crimson ' Bast Lothian,' then 
Ten- Week, and for the early autumn sow ' Crimson 
King ' in May. 

30th. — I have taken up the last of the endive and 



384 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

put it crowded together in a frame with paper and 
pieces of wood over it to keep out the light ; I have 
turned the top leaves over all the cauliflowers that 
are left, those sown late are still growing well and are 
much more delicious than when big and coarse. The 
very small leeks left in the seed-bed are being pulled 
to chop up with the herbs for salad, the bigger ones are 
very good cooked and the green part is much more 
tender than when they are grown very large. Mustard 
and cress I sow all the winter months under glass. 

E.G. 
ITALIAN SOUP 

Take a quarter of a pound of stick macaroni and 
boil until tender with one quart of vegetarian stock, 
put in a little shredded vegetarian suet or butter, 
salt to taste, put in a stewpan with a tin of tomatoes 
or one pound of fresh ones. Have ready three ounces 
of Parmesan cheese grated ; then, when the tomatoes 
are done, put a layer at the bottom with a few bits 
of macaroni, then a layer of grated cheese and so on 
till all the ingredients are used up ; then, at the last, 
pour over all the hot liquid in which the macaroni 
was boiled. 

POTAGE PARMENTIEB 

Pry some onions, leeks, carrots, and celery five 
minutes on a moderate fire, add some peeled potatoes, 
not cut up, and vegetarian stock. Let it cook for 
an hour. Pass all through a sieve and put back in 
a stewpan, let it simmer and take off the scum. 
Mix in a basin the yolks of three eggs, some cream and 
a little fresh butter, add to these a Uttle of the soup 
and strain into the soup tureen. Pour the boiling 
soup on to it and serve. 



NOVEMBER 385 

COLOANNON 

Mix cold mashed potatoes and boiled greens or 
cabbage, smoothly add a little butter, sprinkle with 
bread-crumbs, brown, and serve very hot. 

ITALIAN MACARONI 

Quarter of a pound of macaroni, boU in boiling 
water till tender, drain. Make the following sauce : 
three-quarters of a pint of milk, one tablespoonful 
of flour, three tablespoonfuls of grated cheese. When 
the sauce is ready, put macaroni into it and cook 
together for a few minutes. Serve very hot. 

BICE CONES 

Boil a teacupful of rice in water till it becomes a 
stiff paste, add two teaspoonfuls of finely-chopped 
parsley. When cold, roll into cones and fry in boUing 
fat till a nice brown colour. If liked, these, too, can 
be dipped into white of egg and bread-crumbs. Serve 
very hot. Horse-radish sauce is a good addition to 
this dish. 

FRIED JAPANESE ARTICHOKES 

Wash some artichokes carefully, boil them a very 
little time, roll them in egg and bread-crumbs, and fry 
a light brown. 

BICE A LA MEXICAINE 

Two tablespoonfuls of big whole rice put into a 
stone jar with half a pint of any vegetarian stock, 
such as the water in which carrots, onions, salsify, 
Jerusalem artichokes, &c., have been boiled or plain 
water. Add one teaspoonful of Harvey sauce, half 

20 



386 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

a tomato, half an onion finely shredded, one ounce of 
butter. Cover with a loose lid, and set for two hours 
in a slow oven. It may have a shake, but not be 
stirred. This dish is quite deUcious, and for those 
who do not like onion, it can be left out. 

SPANISH ONIONS 

Put as many onions as you require in a stewpan, 
after removing the skins, and add a lump of butter 
and no water, and let them cook on a close range for 
not less than four hours. If they become dry, add 
more butter to prevent them from burning. Serve 
them very hot with the melted butter round them. 

BICE AND HERBS 

Parboil some unpolished rice, drain it well ; mince 
some herbs such as tarragon, chervil, parsley, onions, 
&c., and cook them in butter with a few chopped 
Brussels sprouts. Mix with the rice and warm up. 
Serve very hot. 

CHESTNUT STEW 

Boil and peel some chestnuts, stew them in 
vegetarian stock with two medium- sized onions sliced 
and previously slightly fried in butter. Add enough 
flour to thicken the gravy and serve in a deep dish. 



DECEMBER 

Two or three people aaked me to reprint the following articles from 
the Illustrated London News and Sketch. By kind permission of 
the Editor I do so. — ^Vegetable recipes. 

Mat 2nd. — The spring this year has been unusually wet, 
which is all to the good for spring gardens on light soils, 
and many things have been unusually good here on our 
wretched Bagshot sand. I have made rather a study 
of the shrubby spiraeas. They are beautiful, useful 
things, and though very much alike in appearance, 
stiU there is a difference ; and three or four no garden, 
however small, should be without. S. Thunbergi 
is the earliest to flower, and if it gets injured by frost, 
well, then its pretty light foliage is useful all through 
the summer late into the autumn, when it turns a 
golden yellow. The next which flowers here at the 
end of April, S. arguta — and one of the best — ^has a 
most graceful growth: the branches arch over, and 
are covered with pure white flowers. 8. grandiflora 
{Exochorda grandiflora) has larger flowers than most 
of the spring spiraeas, and, even uncultivated, unseeing 
eyes always notice it and ask what it is. S- Van 
Houttei is another beautiful white variety which should 
not be forgotten. S. jafonica flowers in July, and has 
flattened corymbs of bright xed blossoms. S. ariaefolia 
will grow ten feet high, and no other shrub makes so 

387 2 2 



388 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

beautiful an effect in July and August, when bunches 
of its creamy white flowers may be seen nodding and 
waving aU over it. Lastly, S. lAndleyana is one of the 
largest of the spiraeas, and one of the latest to bloom, 
and only shows to advantage if it can be given plenty 
of room and an open space. 

One of the merits of the shrubby spiraeas is that 
they can easily be divided and moved : whereas 
shrubs, as a rule, have to be left alone : a shrub that 
does not look thriving is an eyesore in a garden, instead 
of an ornament ; but judicious thiiming out of spiraeas 
is very necessary. The herbaceous spiraeas are more 
often seen. S. Aruncus is a very vigorous perennial 
in light soils ; it does best in half-shade. The two 
pink ones — S. hbata and S. pcAmata — ^are lovely 
plants, but they do not grow to perfection without 
moisture. S. ulmaria is the common British meadow- 
sweet, but it deserves a place in every mixed border, 
and is far more lovely than the double variety generally 
seen in gardens. I am going to try naming only the 
plants that are not generally seen in April gardens. 
Beautiful effects can be got from the ordinary Honesty 
and its various shades ; the white variety looks best 
in shade ; and if they are sown in April or May, and 
transplanted in October, they flower the following 
spring. There is a deep purple kind which makes a 
change; if they are allowed to sow themselves, they 
must be very much thinned out. 

The brooms this year are flowering very early : the 
Genista -praecox and the white one were in flower here 
by April 20. I sow all the brooms every year — ^and so 
have a constant supply ; they are best moved into 
place in October. Praecox makes no seed, or hardly 



DECEMBER 389 

any, but the young shoots strike easily in June under 
a bell-glass. I find a little plant, hke a wUd wallflower, 
very useful — Erysimum Arhxnsanum. It is a biennial, 
and flowers the next spring if sown in August ; and it 
will sow itself if left in any wild, dry place. Still more 
attractive for rockery or border is a little double wall- 
flower called Cheiranthus ' Harpur Crewe,' sold by 
Barr, of Taplow : the only care it wants is cutting back 
rather hard every year when it has done flowering. 
It is easily increased by cuttings of the young shoots 
in sand under a bell-glass, and if moved into place 
as soon as rooted the cuttings make small flowering- 
plants the next spring, but are better, of course, the 
second year. Many amateurs do not realise how very 
easy it is to increase the lovely aubrietias to any extent 
by putting in small pieces of the old plants in May or 
June ; and in appropriate places it is hardly possible 
to have too much of this charming hardy spring friend, 
with its many shades and varieties of colour, from the 
deepest purple to almost pale pink. The best catalogue 
I know for uncommon seeds is that of Thompson & 
Morgan, 5 Carr Street, Ipswich. 

It may amuse some enthusiastic amateurs to hear 
of a rare and curious parasite which I grow here under 
a wall and shaded by shrubs ; it flourishes best on 
the roots of a wiUow, and is called Lathraea clandestina : 
it is purple- violet, and looks, at a distance, like a patch 
of badly grown crocuses, but it is curious and interesting. 
I believe it wiU grow on other roots as well as the willow, 
but I have only succeeded in making it grow on that. 
I find that the pretty climber, Eccremocarpus scaher, 
though a Chilian plant, will survive through ordinary 
winters if planted to grow through a jasmine or a rose 



390 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

on a wall ; and the old plants begin to flower in April, 
while seedlings do not flower till June or July. 

I belong to a horrible class of people who call 
themselves ' food reformers,' and have much sym- 
pathy with the old labourer who said ' he wanted 
neither meat nor music. He found by experience too 
much of either was not good for him — ^music made him 
mischievous, and meat made him masterful.' 

Eampion is seldom seen in English kitchen gardens : 
it is a Swiss campanula, and pretty when allowed to 
flower, though this destroys it as a vegetable. Sow 
the seeds in the open ground in April or May. The 
seed is so exceedingly small that it is well to mix it 
with a little sand to avoid sowing too thickly ; if 
they come up too thickly they must be thinned. The 
leaves make an excellent spinach, and the roots can be 
boiled and covered with a white sauce. Those left 
in the ground through the winter will generally produce 
a fresh growth of leaves in the spring ; when the leaves 
are young they can be used as a salad with beetroot. 
When left alone in the ground they flower in June or 
July, and, gathered, make a pretty sheaf of pale-blue 
bell-shaped flowers which last well in water. The 
best way to cook the leaves is to boil them hke spinach, 
drain, and pass through a sieve. Take a piece of fresh 
butter the size of an egg, a little flour, mix all together 
and cook in a china saucepan, but do not let it brown ; 
put in the vegetable, add a little cream, and stir well. 
Then put a little more cream on the top, and let it all 
cook slowly by the fire ; stir in the cream before serving, 
and make all very hot. The dish can also be served 
with the root cut into pieces in the centre, with a 
white sauce over it, and the green purie put round it. 



DECEMBER ■ 391 

Broad-leaved and curly endive can be kept through 
the winter, if taken up with a ball of earth and put in 
a cellar or a frost-proof shed, or in a frame. The 
following is an excellent French way of cooking the 
endives. Boil the leaves in lots of salt and water ; 
when tender, pour the whole thing into a large sieve, 
and, as soon as the hot water has drained away, put 
the sieve under a tap and let cold water run on it for a 
few minutes. After the cold water, put the endive 
on a chopping-board or rub it through a fine sieve; 
in both cases return it to the fire after putting it into 
a china saucepan, with a pat of butter and one tea- 
spoonful of fine flour. Melt and mix the butter and 
flour, stir in the vegetable, and let it simmer fifteen 
minutes. Add a little cream or milk quite at the last 
moment, to make it look soft and pretty. 

When Sutton's winter salads are over, salad-lovers 
can sow any kind of lettuce-seed in boxes. When 
about two inches high, they can be cut like mustard- 
and-cress, and make a salad which most people greatly 
appreciate and approve of. Another useful plan in 
the country is, when the main crop of potatoes is dug 
up in October, to pick out all the small potatoes. 
Wipe and dry them a little, and then put them in any 
biscuit or other tins you have collected in the year and 
bury these about a foot or so deep, being careful to 
mark the place. These enable you to serve excellent, 
apparently young, potatoes at Christmas. Corn-salad 
or lambs' lettuce is now better known, as it is sold in 
shops, but no winter garden should be without it ; 
New Zealand or winter spinach either, which, besides 
being excellent to eat, is the only safe colouring for 
pea-soup or a furie of dried peas. 



392 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

June 14th. — Nearly all keen amateur gardeners have 
the ambition, sooner or later, to make and plant some 
form of rock-garden, be it large or small, on the slope- 
of a hiU, or on the flat, with stones or without. Not a 
bad substitute for stones, which in some places it is 
difficult to get — and very expensive when got — ^is to 
make some various-shaped lumps of Portland cement 
and throw, at once, gravel or shingle from the shore over 
them. When dry, they are hard and solid, and soon 
colour if watered with a little weak liquid manure. 
The rockery at Kew, on a large scale, is the most 
useful example, within reach of everybody, of how a 
rockery on the flat ought to be made and planted ; 
and the owner must make up his, or her, mind if a 
tiny example of small and rare alpines is to be the aim, 
or if a picturesque and effective show of coloui from 
plants that grow strongly and quickly is the real object. 
The great difficulty of aU gardens of the kind is the 
hand- weeding ; it cannot be done by ignorant under- 
gardeners, and is very tedious. It is best to begin 
weeding in February. In some places they are so 
afraid of weeds that a newly-made rock-garden is 
kept bare for over two years with only small specimen 
plants, so that the ground may be got absolutely clean 
and free from weeds. An open and sunny aspect is 
necessary ; and a perfect situation is the one which 
most resembles a mountain side. For that the ground 
must slope considerably to the south, and the aspects 
gained, or east, west, or north, by the disposition 
of the soil and the help of stones. The new Horti- 
cultural Garden at Wisley is an excellent example of 
this kind of disposing of the advantages offered by 
Nature. It is very large, and slopes north. The rocks 



DECEMBER 393 

— for they can hardly be called stones ! — ^were brought 
from afar at a great expense. A very charming effect 
can be gained, where the land slopes slightly, by digging 
a sunk path, which draws the water down each side of 
the path into a little pool puddled with clay at the 
bottom ; this will enable you to have rock plants all 
along the sides of the cutting, and a small water garden 
at the end ; but it must be possible, in dry weather, 
to keep this moist by water that is laid on. 

The loveliest rock-garden of all is one rovmd a 
natural pond, the edges broken by raised mounds 
of earth and stone — these filled with plants that Uke 
dry and well-drained situations, and that form great 
masses of colour, tall plants with upright growth, 
which are reflected all the year round in the clear 
water. This, I think, the most attractive and artistic of 
all the arrangements, but you must first get the pond. 

For those who are more or less beginners, the 
most helpful book I know is Miss Jekyll's ' Wall 
and Water Gardens,' published by George Newnes, 
Southampton Street, Covent Garden. It also de- 
scribes the ordinary small rockeries, and, like all her 
books, is very stimulating, practical, and clear. The 
chapter on the true alpine garden contains a list of 
alpines by M. Correvon, of Geneva ; and no one is 
more intimately acquainted with the flora of the 
Alps than he is. This list is in two columns — one, 
of the plants that grow on calcareous soil, and the other 
on granitic ; and it seems to me no one could make a 
scientific alpine garden without the help of this book. 
Another book, still more learned and fuU of more 
advanced instruction, is ' My Eock Garden,' by 
Eeginald Farrer (Edward Arnold). To those amateurs 



394 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

who have some considerable experience in the numerous 
dif&culties of rock-gardens this book will be of very 
great use, and it has a long chapter on our English 
alpines, which I have never seen in other books. 
He says : ' Faced by cruel alternatives, I chose rather 
to treat at length of the great races, than cursorily and 
unsatisfactorily of all.' For rough, quickly- covered 
rockeries, many of the best of the English wild flowers 
are most useful. What is more lovely than the French 
wiUow herb — ^rosy-purple, or white — ^grown in fairly 
good ground ? Few herbaceous plants can beat it. 
All the geraniums are useful — the meaning of the word 
' geranium ' is, literally, ' crane's-bill.' All the ' gera- 
niums ' of our conservatories are pelargoniums. They 
all come from south of the equator. Geranium 
'pratense is a beautiful flower, and, planted round the 
foot of the yellow tree-lupin, the effect of colour is 
superb. They flower together at the beginning of 
June. 

Then, later on, what is more fascinating than the 
common toadflax {Linaria vulgaris) ? If it were rare 
and difficult to grow, it would be much sought after ; 
it answers well, picked, and lasts well in water. It is 
perennial, increases rapidly, and wants nothing except 
thinning out. In shade what is handsomer than 
foxgloves ? Digitalis purpurea is the wild one. Digita- 
lis means finger of a glove ; how it got turned into 
foxglove, I know not. There are countless books 
on the wild flowers of England — a new one was pub- 
lished last winter (1913), by Quaritch, with beautiful 
artistic illustrations — but for practical use I think 
nothing heats the large edition of Mrs. Loudon's 
' British Wild Flowers,' published by William S. 



DECEMBER 395 

Orr & Co. It is undated, but must have been 
written about 1840. The coloured illustrations are 
not beautiful, as the colour- printing is rather hard and 
crude ; but the illustrations are numerous and the 
flowers easy to recognise, which is of practical im- 
portance. All garden-lovers should buy Mrs. Loudon's 
old books whenever they are advertised. Her in- 
dustry was very great. A remarkable woman, she 
did for a previous generation what Wilham Eobinson 
has done for this. 

At Friar Park, Henley-on-Thames, a most in- 
structive rock-garden may be seen — by kind per- 
mission of its owner — on Wednesdays in the months 
of May to September, inclusive, from 2 p.m. to 6 p.m. 
The Guide can be procured for sixpence or a shilUng — 
I forget which — by writing to the gardener at Friar 
Park ; the sale of the Guide-book and the entrance- 
fee go to two charities. The ' surprises ' shock 
many gardeners, but the rock-garden and the pools 
are of immense interest, and the general public enjoy 
the rest. 

Those who tremble before the difficulties of the rock- 
garden may derive great pleasure if they have room 
for a herb garden — ^which is quite easy to manage, and, 
with care, can be made both pretty and interesting. 
I think there are considerable signs of a return to 
Nature's simple remedies, and certainly no good cook 
would be without a great variety of herbs. ' The 
Herb Garden,' by Mrs. Bardswell (Adam & Charles 
Black), is a charming book. She knows her subject 
well, and the illustrations are pretty and useful. 
She says in her Preface the French are very clever 
in the use of herbs for soup, not only in flavouring 



396 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

but in making quite a good soup of little else. Cher- 
vD, sorrel chopped fine, and a tiny bunch of parsley, 
tarragon, and mint, a little milk, a morsel of butter, a 
pinch or two of salt and pepper, and a thin slice of 
bread to each person, make a most excellent ' potage.' 
I have an old French book (1816), called 'Flore 
Medicale,' with lovely illustrations ; and at the head 
of the description of each plant the name is given in 
ten languages ; but this book would be difficult to get, 
and Mrs. Bardswell's is within the reach of everybody, 
and full of interesting information ; and all will 
realise how many useful herbs are excluded from 
ordinary gardens in England. Lettuces are generally 
plentiful in kitchen gardens in summer. The follow- 
ing is an excellent recipe for ' Lettuce Soup ' : Fry 
three sliced shallots in a stewpan in butter, cut up two 
or three lettuces fine, put them in with the shallots, put 
on the cover of the stewpan, and let it reduce for about 
twenty minutes. Take three spoonfuls of blanched 
uncooked rice, one pint and a half of weak stock or 
vegetarian stock ; season with salt ; boil gently for an 
hour ; pass through a tammy. Milk can be used in- 
stead of vegetarian stock, but it makes it more tasteless. 
Mrs. BardsweU's hst of the rune most useful per- 
eimial kitchen herbs are : Mint, Mentha viridis ; 
sage, Salvia officinalis ; common thyme. Thymus 
vulgaris ; lemon thyme. Thymus citriodorus ; winter 
savoury, Satureia montana ; pot marjoram, Origanum 
onites ; tarragon, Artemisia Dracunculus ; fennel, 
Fcmiculum vulgare ; and sorrel, Bumex. Besides 
the above-named lamb-mint, there are nine other 
kinds. White, wooUy, or horse-mint is very fragrant 
(M. silvestris) ; and cat-mint, Nepeta cataria — most 



DECEMBER 397 

useful for its lovely grey-blue flowers. To do well it 
wants replanting and a very sunny situation. Pre- 
parations of mint are very useful for those who are 
on a nulk diet ; also for little children. If June has 
been a dry month, green peas soon go oft and become 
hard, especially on light soils ; they then should be 
made into a furSe with some butter and a Uttle sugar ; 
and, before they are quite old, the following is an 
excellent original French recipe, given me by a French 
lady : — Put the peas into a saucepan with a good- 
sized cabbage lettuce, cut up fine ; a white onion, also 
cut up ; a sprig of parsley, four ounces of butter 
kneaded with flour. Put the butter in small lumps on 
the peas, a very little salt, and a lump of white sugar ; 
cover the saucepan, and let it simmer slowly for about 
three-quarters of an hour. There should be no water ; 
EngUsh cooks think one has forgotten it ! 

The following is a good recipe for red-currant 
jelly — one of the preserves best worth making at 
home. Gather the currants, adding a few white ones, 
on a dry day. Strip them of their stalks, and squeeze 
the juice through a cloth ; leave the juice to stand in 
the cellar for twenty-four hours, then pour it into 
another cloth, carefully leaving the thick sediment 
behind. For each pound of juice allow one pound of 
lump-sugar, pounded up — not castor. Put the juice on 
the fire in the preserving-pan, and keep it stirring from 
the first with a new wooden spoon, adding the sugar — 
which should be standing close by — ^in spoonfuls. 
When the sugar is all added and dissolved, it will 
be necessary to take off the rising scum with a flat 
sieve-spoon, scalded and cleaned before. By placing 
a little jelly on a saucer, it will be seen by the 



398 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

consistency how far it has jellied. As soon as there is a 
sign of this, take the pan off the fire, let it stand five 
or ten minutes to cool, then fill the pots or jelly -glasses, 
which should have been well sulphured, and standing 
ready, face downwards ; cover them all over with a 
cloth to avoid flies, and paste them down the next day 
in the usual way. 

July 12th. — I think there is nothing more ornamental 
in a small garden, or even on a fairly wide terrace or 
forecourt, than large pots containing plants which 
are just not hardy in the soil or climate where you hve. 
Many things grow quite well in the south that will 
not survive ordinary winters round London. Pots 
may vary in size to suit the plants that grow in them. 
Pelargoniums require less soil than do many other 
plants. The pots- may be large ordinary garden pots or 
sea-kale pots or rhubarb pots ; or, better still, artistic 
terra-cotta pots from Mrs. Watts' works at Compton, 
near Guildford ; or wooden tubs or barrels cut in two 
— the old Itahan oil-jars are so difficult to get now, 
and the olive-oil is sent in tins, I believe. I have 
some very large pelargoniums — ' William Gladstone,' a 
strong grower, and a soft rose colour ; ' Paul Cram- 
pel,' the pelargonium grown in front of Buckingham 
Palace. ' Henry Jacoby ' is rather darker. P. ' Pretty 
Polly ' and P. ' Unique Aurora ' are both satisfactory 
grown in this way, flowering aU the summer — the old 
plants kept from year to year. The large old-fashioned 
oak-leaved sticky pelargonium does excellently in pots, 
also fuchsias of all kinds, especially fulgens, and the new 
red one with dark foliage — ' Henrick Hankel.' The 
blue Cape Agapanthus everyone grows in tubs, as, to 
flower well, they must be pot-bound, and the roots are 



DECEMBER 399 

so strong they burst sea-kale pots. Myrtles and sweet 
verbena can be grown as standards or shrubs. 

The shrubby veronicas {sfeciosa rubra, imperialis, 
and the variegated Andersoni) all do well as pot- 
plants, also the blue hybrid called ' Autumn Glory.' 
This last is really hardy—at least, it has never died here. 
It is rather difficult to get, or was ; but Smith, of 
Newry, Ireland, sells it, and his catalogues are so 
interesting that it is well worth while to send for some- 
thing from him. The French marguerites, yellow, 
white, and double, and the white tobacco {Nicotiana 
affinis) do well in half -shade ; but Cassia corymhosa, 
a pretty yellow shrubby plant, Ukes full sun and plenty 
of water. Erythrina Crista-galU is a satisfactory 
handsome pot-plant, with claws hke a lobster. I 
first saw it so grown outside a royal palace in Germany. 
It is cut down every autunm and is not so hardy as the 
other things which go into the stable or a shed. It 
is kept in a cool greenhouse in the winter, partly re- 
potted early in the year, and grown until the end of 
May in a warm greenhouse. 

I have what is to me a new greenhouse bulb this 
year — always an excitement — and it is very pretty. 
It is called Ismene, Peruvian daffodU — after Ismene, 
the daughter of CEdipus and Jocasta. (I wonder how 
and why these old Greeks got linked on to a Peruvian 
plant ?) It is figured in Mrs. Loudon's very useful, 
large illustrated book of bulbous plants (1841). This 
is the first year I have flowered it, so I do not know 
if it will increase and do well. Mrs. Loudon says it 
is of easy cultivation, and should be grown in sand. 
It is a Hymenocallis, with a large beautifully shaped 
staminal cup, which shades from pure white into 



400 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

bright green. I am very pleased with it ; it is much 
prettier than in Mrs. Loudon's illustration, which is 
yeUow, not white. 

This is the time of year for bulb-ordering ; and I 
fancy the earlier one orders the better are the bulbs 
one gets ; and sometimes the smaller men take more 
pains with humble orders than the very big firms. 
Everyone whom I have recommended to go to Lionel 
Perkin, Berrylands Road, Surbiton, Surrey, has been 
more than satisfied with his bulbs. He takes great 
pains in collecting them. His catalogue is the clearest 
and the most attractive I know, which is saying a great 
deal, as at this time of the year one is inundated with 
catalogues that are all useful in their way. I must own 
that I never throw away any without regretting that 
I have done so. 

It is with great regret I hear Messrs. Veitch are to 
have sales next year and give up part of their business. 
I am in no sense a big buyer, as I get all I can from 
friends, but Veitch is to be entirely rehed on for out- 
of-the-way plants ; he always sells what you ask for, 
and his catalogues of tender plants are unique. How 
should we get on without them ? 

To go back to Lionel Perkin's bulb catalogue. The 
photographic illustrations are most artistic, and a great 
help to struggling, inexperienced amateurs. I, being one 
of them, though not quite inexperienced — only old and 
stupid — may write in this way ; and I only speak from 
my own experience. I grow a certain number of bulbs 
every year for forcing, and in pans and fibre, and the 
tulips in pots. I Hke single hyacinths much the best 
indoors and out, and I am generally satisfied with what 
the dealers call ' second size.' Roman hyacinths must 



DECEMBER 401 

be the best, and some years the best are bad. Wet, 
cold summers make bad bulbs, and it is unfair to 
blame the merchant. My favourite colours are white, 
and dark and light blue, and pale pink ; but that is 
a matter of taste. The single white Itahan hyacinths 
and the single blue Eoman hyacinths follow the 
Eoman white, the earliest and dearest of all, and they 
must be the best. The white and the blue named above 
are sold by Veitch and Sutton, but are not in many 
catalogues. I think professional gardeners run to 
robustness and size, rather than elegance of form. 
All the daffodils and narcissi force easily and grow in 
fibre, but they are inclined to get too tall and weak 
if grown away from the glass. It is no use my going 
into names and hsts of daffodils and tulips ; the good 
catalogues describe them well, and each grower must 
gain his or her own experience. 

The year begins with the welcome appearance 
of the delicious, pretty, hardy, brave yellow aconites. 
They can be planted under evergreens facing south, 
and those come out the earliest. If gathered very 
short and floated on a basin or a glass bowl fiUed to the 
brim with water, and their httle green rufde supporting 
them, they look most charming, hke miniature water- 
lilies. They should be planted very early. They also 
do no harm to come on later, planted in a rose-bed, 
they disappear before the roses profit much by mulch- 
ing. Crocuses come next, and if a thousand (500 
light lavender-blue and 500 dark purple) are thrown 
casually and planted on any rough piece of grass 
that need not be mown till the end of June, the effect 
is charming and rejoices the heart of their owner 
year after year. The grass requires a second mowing 

2d 



402 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

in October. They should not be mixed, except at 
the edge, when the light melt into the dark. After 
these, in the same kind of place, might be put some 
anemones, ilanda and afennina, both charming 
and liking half-shade. The scarlet wind-flower {ful- 
gens) flowers better and increases if unceremoniously 
forked about in June or July. This happens in Italy, 
where anemones do so well from the natural cultivation 
of the soil prepared for the coming crop of cereals. 
Anemones are, of course, tubers, not bulbs. 

I never grow out of doors here the very early tulips ; 
they do not do well, and it is not worth while. The 
medium and the late do admirably the first year. I 
find it difficult to keep them. In fact, tulips mean 
money, and when freshly bought ones are planted not 
too early in well-prepared beds the success is certain. 

To return to the bulbs under glass. Freesias are 
lovely and easy to grow, and so cheap that it is hardly 
worth while keeping the bulblets. Lachenalias, too, 
are quite easy, and do year after year with a little care 
in drying them off. Snowdrops, which are weeds in 
some places, are hopeless in this dry sandy soil. They 
flower rather poorly the first year and then disappear. 
Tritonia crocata is a very pretty orange flowering bulb, 
which increases in pots and comes on well in the green- 
house after the freesias. Greenhouses next the sitting- 
room are ugly appendages to pretty little modern 
houses, and the architects object to them, but they are 
an immense joy to women fond of flowers and gardens, 
and give one variety the whole year round. 

I have left hardly any room for recipes, so irises 
and many other things must be left for another time. 
Here is a good soup : Fry three sliced shallots in 



DECEMBER 403 

butter, in a stewpan ; cut up fine two or three well- 
washed lettuces and put them with the shallots ; 
put on the cover of the stewpan, and let it drain down 
for about twenty minutes, then prepare three spoon- 
fuls of rice ; put the rice into cold water, bring it to 
the boil, and strain at once ; have ready one and a 
half pints of vegetable stock, or weak meat stock, if 
preferred ; season and add a httle mUk or cream ; 
pass through a sieve, make hot, and serve. 

Scarlet runners may be dressed in the same way 
as French beans, though they are never as good. 
Wash and string the beans both sides, saute them 
in butter (always the best is necessary for vegetables) 
for ten minutes, then add a little salt and chopped 
parsley and a very httle water ; cook them slowly in a 
covered stewpan — crockery is the best. Just before 
serving, mix apart two yolks of eggs in some cream, 
pour it over the beans in the saucepan, and serve hot. 

August 16th. — In a large flat garden, I know nothing 
more fascinatingly effective and beautiful than a 
long artificial tank, bordered with paviag-stones aU 
round, and the waste-pipe nearly at the top, so that 
the water rises close to the stone and reflects the 
surrounding objects — ^trees and plants and sky. The 
size of the oblong piece of water must, of course, be 
decided by the circumstances of the ground chosen. 
After the paving-stones should come a broad band of 
turf ; after that a border of delicate half-hardy plants 
— ^fuchsias, Ulies, pelargoniums, &c. ; large patches 
of blue violas and other low-growing plants in front. 
The scheme of colour had best be mostly confined to 
shades of blue, grey, pink, and some white, but not 
much ; the whole surrounded by low brick walls 

2d2 



404 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

against which roses and myrtles and sweet verbena 
would do well. On the top of the low waU may be 
pots or vases with carnations or annual seedling 
pinks. The point of this long stretch of stone-bound 
water is that it should hold gold-fish, and, above all, 
some of the various hardy Nymphaeas (water-lilies). 
There is no difficulty about growing them. The 
roots are put, with soU, into some shallow basket 
not a box — a hamper does very well with the Ud off. 
This is sunk into the piece of water, which must be 
rather deep — three or four feet — so that in cold winters 
the frost should not reach the roots and kill them. 
Spring is the best time to plant ; the end of AprO 
does very well. Of course, Nymphaeas flourish and 
grow more strongly in muddy ponds or lakes than in 
the more artificial conditions of the cemented tank, 
but, the growth being more restrained in the tank, the 
flowers show to greater advantage, and can be more 
closely inspected and observed, besides avoiding the 
attacks of moor-hens and water-rats. 

Nothing has so improved in gardening of late 
years as our water-gardens and the cultivation of 
moisture-loving plants. Should there be, by good 
luck, a slope in the ground in garden or field, and a 
stream, however small, that could dribble from one 
hole to another, several varieties of water-lilies could 
be grown. M. Marliac's hybridising of water-lilies has 
been so successful, and the varieties are so numerous 
that the difficulty is only to select the best. I myself 
grow in a small round fountain a very fine red one 
which flowers freely ; but I sometimes think of giving 
it away and going back to the real old white water- 
lily of our ponds, which grows throughout Europe. 



DECEMBER 405 

Nothing is more beautiful, and, if picked on coming 
into bloom, the flowers look lovely in shallow bowls, 
lasting for several days if care is taken to bend back 
the sepals when the flowers are out. The blooms are 
fragrant and remain open till they wither. In Mr. 
Robinson's latest edition of ' The English Flower 
Garden,' the eleventh, there is a very long description 
of Nymphaeas of every shade and colour. He says 
N. odorata minor is one of the best for tanks and 
shallow water : a pretty little plant of slow growth, 
starry-white flowers with purplish sepals, and sweetly 
scented ; the leaves are small, bright-green above 
and red beneath. Those who have suitable ponds 
or tanks, and are ambitious of growing rarities, may 
wish to grow Nelumbium — sacred yeUow bean. N. 
luteum is the hardiest known sacred bean and the 
best suited to northern gardens. It flowers strongly 
in the Jardin des Plantes, Paris. I have never seen 
it myself, and so do not know if it is worth the trouble, 
or if the summers are too cold for it to flower 
here. 

In a paper read before the Horticultural Society 
in 1898, M. Latour Marhac, the famous French 
propagator of water-lflies, said that ' in stocking a 
tank with water-lilies the object should be to obtain, 
by an harmonious combination and sequence of shades 
of colours, a generally good effect, and for that purpose 
plants with high stalks should be avoided. People 
who have no tanks, and who wish to begin the culture 
of water-liHes, can very well make shift with casks sawn 
through the middle. In temperate countries it is 
unnecessary to protect these tubs against the frost, 
but in cold countries they must be protected. To 



4o6 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

do this, a trench is made of a depth of about one-third 
the height of the tubs, which are then placed in it and 
banked up to their edges with the earth dug out. 
One would hardly believe what a charming effect can 
be produced by tubs arranged in this style. Water- 
lilies are blessed with extraordinary vitality, which 
allows them to Uve for quite a long time out of the 
water, and in consequence to survive very long voyages 
without being any the worse.' 

I have had several apphcations for cuttings of my 
night-flowering Cereus, and have sent them according 
to my offer. They strike easily. I had twelve or 
thirteen splendid blooms on my plant this year. I 
wonder Cacti of all kinds are not more grown by 
amateurs who have greenhouses and hve in their 
homes. They are exceedingly lovely when blooming 
and want little care, and they can be made to flower 
in May, June, or July, according to the temperature 
of the house. In winter they only want to be kept 
very dry and free from frost. ' Cactus Culture,' by 
W. Watson, Assistant-Curator of the Eoyal Botanic 
Gardens, Kew, 1889, will be found most useful, and 
gives all the instruction necessary. 

I have seen in the papers this year that the favourite 
flower in gardens, leaving out roses and sweet peas, 
is the Pentstemon (Beard- tongue). I think the reason 
they are so frequently seen this year is that with 
others, as with me, the old plants survived in conse- 
quence of the mild wet winter, and the old plants 
flowered earlier and more strongly than the cuttings. 
This teaches a lesson, and I shall try taking up the 
old plants and giving them some light protection, 
and plant them out in April. They are most useful 



DECEMBER 407 

plants and last well in water, and they flower for a 
long time. I shall grow a greater variety. 

This month of July I went to see a beautiful old 
place in Warwickshire. The garden was lovely and 
picturesque and entirely suited to the old house ; 
the plants herbaceous or annuals, the soil excellent, 
and the situation somewhat damp. One long, narrow 
bed was entirely given up to the low-growing shrubby 
spiraeas. Two groups of S. palmata were especially 
effective ; the white flowers rather later than the red, 
but both are most valuable. There are several varieties 
of S. jafonica Bumalda : ' Anthony Waterer ' is, 
perhaps, the best. S. lobata, ' Queen of the Prairie ' 
(a pretty name), almost pink, if grown in rather a 
dry place : in a moist soil it is over eighteen inches 
high, with flowers in large, terminal cymes. 

The strawberries here, this wet year, have been 
quite unusually good, and I can thoroughly recommend 
Sutton's ' Large Eed Alpine.' We grew it from seed, 
and, the second year, with the runners taken off, when 
they came ia the spring ; and, watered in dry weather, 
they have gone on bearing aU the summer. George 
Bunyard's ' Louis Gauthier ' is also here — a most use- 
ful strawberry, coming rather late and very pale in 
colour. It has an excellent flavour, and is true to its 
catalogue description of an ' enormous cropper.' 

Here is a recipe for the simple water ice : One 
pint of water, half a pound of white sugar ; as a 
boiling syrup pour it on to twelve black-currant leaves, 
leave it to cool, strain, and add a little lemon-juice, 
freeze in the usual way, and serve with stewed fruit 
or in glass cups with oifly biscuits. Tha leaves of 
black-currants boiled for ten minutes and strained 



4o8 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

make a wholesome tisane for the gouty or rheumatic, 
taken between meals and best without sugar. 

I strongly recommend all who grow vegetable 
marrows to pick them when no larger than large 
lemons, boil them whole, and serve with a cream 
sauce ; the faithful plants go on producing more than 
when allowed, to grow large and old. 

September 13th. — The more I garden the more do 
I believe in never really replanting the mixed borders 
by taking the whole thing up. Many plants are better 
for replanting if done just at the right time. Among 
the handsomest of spring flowers are the stately Crown 
Imperials {Fritillaria imferialis). To flower well 
the next year they should be occasionally replanted in 
June — ^never in October. They do best, I think, in 
light soils : but they want feeding. There are several 
different varieties, differing chiefly in the colour of 
the flowers : the yellow is the strongest here, though 
the red is nearly as good. One called ' Aurora,' 
bronzy orange, has a great tendency to grow freely 
and not flower at all. Gardening books often re- 
commend planting Crown Imperials on the fringe of a 
shrubbery ; that would not answer at all in this light 
soil. For those who have a small greenhouse, I 
sincerely recommend a few pots for the early spring of 
the Fritillaria Meleagris alba, the white variety of the 
wild (Snake's-head), which grows round Oxford. It 
looks most refined in a pot, and fully repays the only 
trouble it gives, which is careful watering, neither too 
much nor too little. 

Last month I spoke of the spiraeas ; now I will do 
the same for the veronicas, both shrubby and her- 
baceous. V. TraversU is the one I have found perfectly 



DECEMBER 409 

hardy, and I am told it ia the same much farther 
north than Surrey ; it -will flourish in towns, and on 
chalk. Many of the shrubby veronicas, with hand- 
some lilac and purple and pink flowers in the autumn, 
die here in cold winters ; they seem to suffer from 
dryness in the spring. But all the tribe are easily 
increased from cuttings in July or August. We 
keep the cuttings in pots in a frame through the winter 
and plant them out in April, repotting in October the 
tender kinds to keep in a frame through the winter ; 
and so we never lose our varieties. One of the loveliest 
is F. Hullceana ; it is tender, but has survived here 
several years on a dry rockery and shaded and protected 
by hardier veronicas. V. pinguifolia and V. recum- 
bens are among the hardiest of shrubby veronicas, 
and no rockery should be without them. A hybrid 
called ' Autunm Glory ' I have found pretty and hardy 
and it does not grow tall. Amongst the herbaceous 
varieties there is nothing better than V. Sficata, now 
called V. longifolia : it has the merit of travelling 
well and lasting long in water, but in poor soils it 
wants constant dividing : there are four colours — blue, 
white, rose-coloured, and purple. V. frostrata and 
V. refens should never be left out of any garden. 
V. gentianoides is very pretty and flowers in May, 
but it must be divided and fed, as, if too dry, 
it disappears. 

Many people find it difficult to make Heuchera 
sanguinea flower. I have found it do well close against 
a wall between the peach-trees, but any house-wall 
would do in fuU sun. They must be constantly divided 
and then they flower well, and the soft carmine of 
their flower is very attractive and unusual ; the other 



4IO POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

varieties are only worth growing for the colour of their 
leaves in the autumn. 

My favourite June flower is the Orniihogalum 
fyramidale, but it is so rarely grown; It wants just 
the little trouble of taking up the bulbs in July and 
drying them in the sun and replanting in September 
or October. Its growth is rather ugly, as the leaves 
turn yellow and die down before the flower comes, 
but for picking it is beautiful, and when one flower 
is out it can be gathered and put into water, and it 
comes out to the last bud. It can grow through forget- 
me-nots or the blue geranium, a wild plant in some 
places. 

When asparagus comes in, the difficult time for 
vegetables in the country — London is seasonless — 
seems over, as asparagus can be cut till the peas are 
ready. The sad thing is that asparagus is poison to 
gouty people, and no doubt responsible for many spring 
illnesses. 

This is a useful sweet dish when fruit is scarce : 
Take a quarter of a pound of Chocolat Menier, let it 
steam over a stewpan of boiling water for half an hour, 
then work into it four raw yolks of fresh eggs till quite 
smooth. Whisk the whites to a stiff froth, and mix 
all together lightly ; then pour it iato a glass dish and 
let it stand twelve hours. Lemon-water seems simple 
to make, but the exact proportions it is essential to 
keep. This is an old country-house recipe : The peel 
of three large, or four small, lemons ; peel the lemons 
with a sharp knife very thin — ^the same as for jelly ; 
two lumps of sugar, three quarts of boiling water ; to 
stand till cold. 

Lemonade : The peel of one lemon, six ounces of 



DECEMBER 411 

loaf sugar, the juice of three lemons, three quarts of 
boiling water ; stand till cold. Some like it iced in 
hot weather, but iced drinks are not wholesome. I 
must wind up with a little verse which was told me 
the other day, and attributed to an Eton boy. It 
has nothing to do with gardening, or cooking, except 
that human nature affects everything we do and say, 
and the little verse holds a great truth of its own : 

If all the good people were clever. 
And all that are clever were good, 

The world would be better than ever 
We dreamt that it possibly could. 

But somehow it happens that never 
They hit it ofi quite as they should ; 

For the good are so harsh to the clever. 
And the clever so rude to the good. 

cbMme duceesse soup 

(From ' Lady Dudley's Cookery Book ') 

This soup can be had in winter by using the dried 
peas sold in muslin bags with directions for cooking, 
they must be soaked the day before. Take the peas 
after they are cooked and pass them through a wire 
sieve. Have ready some shredded sorrel and lettuce 
cooked in a little butter. Make some white vegetarian 
stock, hot, add the puree, pass through a tammy, 
return to the fire, add some cream and the lettuce and 
sorrel. 

September 13th. — I have lived in Surrey many 
years, but I think this is the finest autumn and the 
latest I remember ; it is a fact that it is at least three 
weeks later than is usual for the thermometer never to 



412 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

have gone down below forty, even at night. This has 
kept the gardens wonderfully full and bright. I move 
aU my early flowering chrysanthemums out of a 
reserve garden in July or August and for over six 
weeks they have been a mass of bloom, pink, white, 
yellow, and dark red. The names of the best kinds can 
easily be got by a visit to Hampton Court, and I 
dare say even in the London Public Gardens they put 
out the best kinds. I very seldom see in gardens, 
at any rate as a single plant on lawns, Desmodium 
'penduUflorum ; it is a lovely thing, it wants plenty of 
room and staking ; the new ' Reliance ' iron stakes 
with rings of different sizes (from Davies, 164 Lever 
Street, City Road, London, E.C.) do best, they grow 
through and completely hide the staking ; the plant 
dies down entirely in the winter. At Kew they 
grow it on a wall, which I do not think shows the 
plant off to advantage. The Jerusalem sage, Phlomis 
fruticosa, is another plant that looks very well in a hole 
in the grass, it only wants to be well cut back after 
flowering, and I am very partial to the Large Spurge, 
Eufhorhia Wulfeni : when it does flower in March 
it is so handsome ; now and then, in unfavourable 
springs, the buds are killed. I wonder if I mentioned 
before the single and double white Daturas, they are 
Mexican plants ; none are hardy here but they are not 
difficult to manage. The large double one grown in 
Italy we grow in the ground in the little conservatory 
and it flowers twice or three times in the year and 
is deliciously sweet ; it will flower out of doors in a 
big pot ; the single one Robiiison calls D. meteloides, 
which is known in gardens as ' Wright's Datura,' we 
keep alive year after year, cutting it round and 



DECEMBER 413 

then taking it up after the first frost and keeping 
it with other not quite hardy plants in a coach-house, 
the doors of which are opened for some hours on mild 
fine days in winter ; my two plants have kept like 
this for years, and are covered in summer with their 
large white trumpet flowers ; they are well illustrated 
in the later editions of the ' English Flower Garden.' 
Many people are rather tired of Dahlias, but they are 
most useful if grown only to one stem and given plenty 
of room ; it helps them to flower early — ^if that is 
wanted — if a piece of root is potted up at the end of 
March and planted out early in June. One I have, 
called 'Admiration,' is much admired; also ' Snowcloud,' 
a single white, and ' South Pole.' ' Queen Mary's ' is 
a good pink, and ' Mrs. A. Hare ' is a single terra-cotta. 
These are some I remarked as good at Hampton 
Court this year. The pink annual Mesembryanthemum, 
rose and white, is so very pretty in dry sunny places, 
but it has the wicked habit of going to bed early and 
our friends see our gardens mostly in the afternoons ; 
the seed used to come from Veitch, but Sutton has 
now taken over his seed business. I don't think 
that everyone knows that if the winter-flowering 
tall American carnations are planted out in June 
they go on flowering the whole summer ; of course 
they do extra well in places near the sea, where I saw 
them flowering to perfection in July and on into 
September. 

The blue Pentstemon heterophyllus is a lovely 
plant. By the sea I foimd they successfully made 
the Pink Hydrangeas blue, watering them with alum 
water all the season; I am never quite sure I like 
this. The variegated creeping Jenny, Sibthorfia 



414 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

eurofoea variegata, and the variegated Sedum acre 
look bright on dry walls and rockeries when the 
flowering time is over. Shortia gcdacifolia is an in- 
teresting and rather rare North American plant which 
makes a welcome garden Alpine, the pure white bell 
flowers are very pretty but it is not for me as it wants 
heat and moisture ; a Httle is known of its culture in 
this country ; where I saw it, it was in full sunshine 
in the holes of a large rockery. When making or 
remaking a rose-bed in dry soils it is very necessary 
to introduce both clay and loam and manure into 
the light soil, but the clay should not be put at the 
bottom but in layers sideways hke well-dished-up 
slices of cake, the clay, the manure, and so on, and 
soil at the top ; this gives roses firm root-hold, which 
is what they want, and prevents the clay forming a 
pan which holds the water ; roses like a moist strong 
soil but not wet feet, especially teas and hybrid teas. 
Of course in a rose soil they all do well. 

' Eeine Olga de Wurtemberg ' is a free-growing 
easy Eose and pretty, but nothing beats the compara- 
tively new Kose ' Zephyrine Drouhin ' described in 
some catalogues as crimson red, it is nothing of the 
kind but a deep intense pink and it stands pegging 
down very well. Crinums are useful South African 
plants and can be grown out of doors next a greenhouse 
wall, or in pots when the bulb grows larger and larger 
and they flower in the autumn. C. ca/pense is the 
best, there are several varieties pink and white, they 
are quite worth having. The beautiful Bella Donna 
Amaryllis everyone should try and grow, but it is 
not easy. It doesn't like a cold and heavy soil, but 
it wants it good, and top-dressing helps it when pro- 



DECEMBER 415 

ducing its leaves. The front of a greenhouse wall facing 
south is where they do best, and the leaf growth in 
the early spring should be greatly encouraged, as 
on that depends the bulb throwing up its flowers in 
September ; they are so beautiful, any amount of 
trouble to make them succeed is worth while. 
Vallotas, the ' Scarborough Lilies,' I used to say were 
so easy to grow anyone could have them, and then 
mine were kept too long inside the greenhouse and 
they all got a disease and died, they are so nearly 
hardy that the more they are outside all the summer 
the better, with the pots, of course, protected from 
wind ; the evaporation from damp pots makes the 
roots very cold if exposed to wind. Nerines are also 
a beautiful genus of bulbous plants ; success with 
them in pots seems to depend on seldom repotting, 
encouraging the growth of the leaves and when they 
turn yeUow laying the pots on their sides on a green- 
house shelf well exposed to the sun ; in August they 
go into a frame but are not watered till the point of 
the flower-bud appears. Nerine sarniensis, ' Guernsey 
Lily,' is the easiest to grow, and the bulbs that come 
from Jersey or Guernsey are the best as they are quite 
hardy there. Humea elegans is a delightful greenhouse 
annual, but it takes a good deal of room and is apt, 
if at all crowded, to get disease, but the scent of its 
leaves improves the fragrance of any greenhouse, 
especially mixed with lilies. Another beautiful 
autumn bulb is Pancratium fragrantissimum, but this 
requires stove heat to flower well, and it throws off 
young bulbs year by year and so is easily increased. 
Hedychium Gardnerianum is a beautiful plant, it 
should be kept cool in the winter after flowering, 



4i6 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

and repotted in January or February in loam and 
peat with a portion of cow- dung and sand ; it wants 
light and heat when growing in the summer and a 
temperature of from 60 to 85, and moist atmosphere 
when growing. Browallia speciosa major is a lovely 
blue greenhouse annual and looks well faUing from 
the shelf or in a basket. The Indian strawberry 
Fragaria indica makes a charming pretty basket 
plant for a cool conservatory, the fruit is to look at, 
not to eat. Fuchsia frocunibens is another most 
dainty little basket or pot plant, nearly hardy, the 
fruit quite out of proportion to the flower and very 
ornamental. It is so curious how certain flowers 
become the fashion ; lately everyone has grown masses 
of Schizanfhus in pots, flowering in spring : Sutton's 
pink Clarkias, well grown, are very weU worth growing 
and effective — ' Firefly ' and ' Scarlet Beauty * are the 
best ; Nemesia, too, sown in October, is very pretty in 
pots in spring when the bulbs are over, especially if 
left to hang down. I have grown this year the Straw- 
berry-Raspberry ; gardeners sniff at it because it has a 
weedy growth and a creeping habit. It is not a hybrid 
at all, and has nothing to do with either a strawberry 
or raspberry ; it was introduced from Japan about 
1895. Buhus rosaefolius is its right name : the leaves 
and the fruit are both very pretty, and the fruit is 
good when cooked with apple, and comes in at a 
useful time of the year when there is little else. It 
seems to hke half shade and replanting every second 
year. New Zealand spinach is a most useful vegetable 
at this time of the year — Sutton's seed, sown in April. 
We cook it boiled in a very little water and only just 
enough to make it tender, rubbed through a sieve and 



DECEMBER 417 

put back into a china saucepan with milk and gently 
stewed for half an hour, a small piece of fresh butter 
being added just before serving. There are two vege- 
tables in Vilmorin's French catalogue that I am going 
to try next year. One is Beta vulgaris ; the stalks are 
boiled hke sea-kale, and served with a white cream and 
butter sauce. The other is mentioned in Eobinson's 
translation of Vilmorin's ' Vegetable Book ' as marrow- 
kale, and grown generally for cattle ; the stalks are 
cooked in the same way as the vegetable mentioned 
above. The plant forms a connecting link between 
the common cattle-feeding cabbage and kohl rabi : 
it is sensitive to cold and must be gathered before 
frost. 

October 25th. — We hear much in these days of 
herbaceous borders, often described in poetical language, 
and supposed to grow all the best flowers of the year in 
the utmost perfection. People imply, in a light and 
airy way, that the Christmas Eose may be picked in the 
border in the depths of winter, and that the violet 
flourishes from November to AprU. And so they do 
if properly treated, but not, certainly, in an over- 
crowded mixed border. 

Many good gardeners now despise these mixed 
cottage borders, however well done, and say there is 
no beauty in mixed colours and flowers, some coming on 
and some going off ; and they are disposed to say that 
the herbaceous border, in the old English cottage 
sense, is not worth doing. I do not agree with this, 
though perhaps what they say is, in a sense, true — that 
there is no repose, no form, no drawing, no colour, even 
as one plant is apt to kill another in more senses than 
one. I think, perhaps, a feeling is growing among the 

2 E 



4i8 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

best gardeners that, even in moderate-sized gardens, cer- 
tain portions must be left alone and devoted to different 
plants in beauty at different seasons. Flower-lovers 
must make up their own minds how they best like to 
treat their herbaceous borders. I cling very much to 
the idea of having something to pick for eight months 
in the year. I send away a great many cut flowers. 
If you are content to have your mixed border only 
beautiful for two or three months in the year, the task 
is not so dif&cult. I know a broad, handsome border, 
under a high wall, which is broken up into compart- 
ments divided by narrow stone paths, and the colours 
are kept apart — blue, yellow, red and crimson, and 
grey and violet mixed. The effect is very unusual, and 
handsome, but that sort of thing is not to be thought 
of except in large places, and the border does not come 
to perfection — being nearly all planted out in May — 
till nearly the end of July, when, if not renewed from a 
reserve garden or with plants out of pots, our cottage 
borders begin to look very sad. The ordinary May 
and June borders are well known to everyone, so I 
will name only the plants that did well here the first 
week in August, in this very light, hot soil. 

We had just been filling up bare places with early- 
flowering chrysanthemums and Sedum spectdbile, the 
plant that bees and butterflies love so weU. The low- 
growing Michaelmas daisy {Aster Amellus) moves 
perfectly ; the tall-growing ones are best put into place 
in November for the following year. Large bunches 
I have of Gypsophila fanicula, and the double one — 
which is one of the rare instances of the double flower 
being prettier than the single. Gypsophilas must 
never be replanted ; they are easily increased by cuttings 



DECEMBER 419 

in the spring, when they first break. This is the same 
with salvias, which are most useful, and easy plants 
to grow. S. virgata has beautiful red purple stems, 
and is very ornamental even when the flower is nearly 
over. Light-blue flowers are not so plentiful at this 
time of the year ; the dark, half-hardy Salvia patens 
is always handsome, but not much use for picking. 
The cultivated endive, with its lovely pale-blue flower, 
is a feature just now. Campanula laciiflora flowers 
when the other campanulas are nearly over, and 
if grown from selected seed is one of the most re- 
fined and uncommon of the campanulas. Aconitum 
Napellus does not come out till September, but if 
attended to and mulched it is one of the handsomest of 
autumn flowers. Monarda didyma (bee-balm) is a 
favourite red plant, and looks well near the white 
phloxes. Coloured phloxes have to be carefully 
labelled when put away in the reserve garden in the 
autumn, as, though most useful plants, their colours 
often war one against the other. But phloxes are the 
great stand-by for colour, and they have been immensely 
improved of late. The white one is the one that does 
best in the borders here. The others are better grown 
in a reserve bed in- good soil. They move well on a 
dry, sunless day, and must be watered tLQ it rains. 

All the spreading blue lobeUas are lovely in the 
front of beds or growing out of the front of large pots. 
I don't Uke the ' compact ' lobelias at all, but gardeners 
favour them. Sutton sells four of the spreading 
ones — speciosa (dark-blue), Paxtoniana (light-blue), 
gracilis (blue), and grandiflora (cobalt-blue), which are 
very pretty hanging down in pot or basket. The 
beautiful red lobelia with dark foliage they call ' Queen 

2e2 



420 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

Victoria ' is supposed to be a perennial, but it has to 
be treated as a biennial, as it dies here whether we 
take it up or leave it alone. 

The garden rather runs to yellow in August, but 
Spartium junceum (rush-broom) is a plant I think no 
garden should be without. It grows well on a flat 
sunny bank, chopped back hard every year after 
flowering, or as an upright shrub, treated in the same 
way. The flower is a beautiful clear yellow even by 
candle-light. 

Hollyhocks planted in spring from the seed-bed are 
an immense help if set in groups in appropriate places 
with a dark background. I never grow any but the 
single ones ; the soil is not strong enough. And, 
indeed, I think the single ones the prettiest : they 
are supposed to have been brought by seed to England 
by the Crusaders. It is easy to keep the best colours, 
by cutting back and taking up strong plants as soon 
as they have done flowering and dividing them with a 
sharp knife. Care must be taken that each division has 
a good share of roots and at least one shoot. Plant 
these divisions in a shady bed, but not under the drip 
of trees. They remain here till March, and are then 
planted where they are to flower, or left where they are. 

Oenotheras are a most valuable family of plants 
for h'ght soils. Even the ordinary evening primrose 
is most useful if transplanted, for it sows itself freely, 
and must often be pulled up ; it is a handsome and 
valuable plant. Oe. Fraseri is a low-growing kind and 
apparently unkiUable if left alone. Oe. macrocarfa 
is the low-growing one with large yellow flowers. 
Sutton catalogues some new kinds I have not yet tried. 
The large ox-eyed daisies are very useful. Chrysan- 



DECEMBER 421 

themum maximum is good, and ' King Edward VII.' 
a very handsome variety. Echiiwps Bitro (globe-thistle) 
and Eryngium Oli/oerianum are both tall-growing, 
drought-resisting plants at the end of the summer. 

For those who have wide, open borders that can be 
well prepared in May, the great stand-by in late summer 
will be the best annuals grown in masses — the white and 
pink Malo'pe, Lavatera trimestris, double Godetia, tall 
snapdragons — ^which have been greatly improved of 
late and only spoilt by the dwarf kinds, which are 
really ugly. Gaura Lindheimeri and the dwarf blue 
delphiniums are lovely, and some are perennials, but 
they don't hve through the winter here. 

Nothing is so educating for the amateur as regards 
annuals and biennials as the two catalogues of Eyder 
& Son, St. Albans (penny seed packets), and Thompson 
& Morgan, of Ipswich. Nothing but knowledge of 
soil and aspect and experience can make good borders 
out of annuals and bieimials, but when successful, they 
are very good indeed, and give any amount of flowers 
for picking till quite late in the year. Most of the 
really hardy plants are best sown in September. The 
new hybrid ' Star of the Veldt,' Dimorfhotheca aurantiaca 
hyirida, is a bright lovely-coloured daisy about a foot 
high. Gaillardias and scabious both do better here 
autumn-sown. Clarkias sown in pots in the autumn 
and kept under glass make lovely plants for house 
or conservatory in early spring. ' Firefly ' and 
' Scarlet Beauty,' which I saw so grown last spring, 
were graceful and effective. 

Two shrubs I know flower late in the year. One 
called Paoia or Aesculus parviflora (it is really a tree, 
but grows slowly here) is from North America, and 



422 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

its flowers are like greatly improved horse-chestnuts. 
The other is rare^ I never saw it in flower till this 
August at the Wisley Horticultural Gardens. It is 
called Eucryphia finnatifoUa. It comes from Chili, 
is nearly hardy, but wants a warm sheltered place. 
The flowers are beautifully shaped and Hke a white 
St. John's-wort. 

The growing and pruning of shrubs is, I think, 
the part least understood still in Enghsh gardening, 
which in all other respects has made such great strides 
in the last twenty years. The best modern book 
that I know is ' Trees and Shrubs,' by E. T. Cook, 
published by Country lAfe, 1902. 

I can advise anyone who cares for peculiar green- 
house flowers in winter to buy now from Veitch a plant 
of Bryofhyllum calycinum. It is easily increased if 
cut down after flowering, as every leaf will grow that 
is laid on wet peat in a mild stove-heat. It flowers in 
January or February, does well in water, has a long 
stem, the lower part clothed with pretty-shaped leaves 
ending in a number of drooping green bells just touched 
with bright pink. Delicate, graceful, and very 
uncommon, all flower-lovers admire it, and immediately 
ask me its terribly long name, which I never can 
remember. I have never seen it grown anywhere. It 
comes from India, and its name is derived from iryo, 
to sprout, and 'phyllon, a leaf. 

Here is a good lentil soup : — Put a quarter of a 
pound of brown German lentils to soak in cold water 
the day before they are wanted ; boil them up over 
a hot fire, being careful to cover them, and only 
put enough water to soak them. Let the fire be less 
fierce when they begin to cook, and keep adding water 



DECEMBER 423 

in which vegetables have been boiled, especially celery. 
Eemove from the surface any scum or skins. Pry 
brown in butter a tablespoonful of flour with an onion 
and pour into the lentil soup gradually, stirring all the 
time ; add more vegetable stock if necessary. The 
Germans add some whole lentils cooked apart, and 
some little squares of potato. 

POTATO SOUP 

Three medium potatoes, two onions, two ounces 
of butter. Cut the onions up fine and fry them a 
nice brown in butter, then pour a quart of boiling 
water or vegetarian' stock over them and boU for an 
hour. Peel and cut up the potatoes, add them to the 
soup, boil another half-hour, and add squares of white 
bread when the soup is in the tureen. 

CHESTNUT SOUP 

Boil one pound of chestnuts till tender, shell and 
remove brown skin whUe hot. Take sufficient milk 
and water for the quantity of nuts, add a chopped 
onion. Boil together till the nuts are soft enough 
to pass through a sieve, then add a small piece of butter 
and seasoning. Heat up and serve. 

ITALIAN SOUP 

Half a pound each of turnips, carrots, and onions, 
quarter of a pound of macaroni, one small beetroot, 
one ounce parsley, two ounces of butter, two quarts 
of water, one pint of milk. Slice the vegetables, 
except the beetroot, boil them in water and the 
macaroni in milk ; when both are cooked, mix together, 



424 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

add the parsley and beetroot previously boiled and 
cut up small ; add the butter. Heat up and serve. 



SAVOURY RICE 

Boil well together one cupful of rice and one onion 
finely chopped and fried in a little vegetarian stock, 
and when done add four ounces of grated cheese. Put 
on buttered toast or serve in a deep hot dish. 

SAVOURY PUDDING 

Make a crust of flour and vegetarian suet or butter 
and line a pudding dish; cut up some onions and 
potatoes and add a very httle sage, some chestnuts 
previously boiled and skinned, and a lump of butter. 
Cover with a layer of the crust and boil for two or 
three hours, according to the size. 

CAULIFLOWER AU GRATIN 

For three persons. One small cauliflower, half 
an ounce of butter, half an ounce of flour, half a tea- 
cupful of milk, one ounce of Parmesan cheese. Boil 
the cauhflower till tender, draia well and put it in a 
fireproof dish, in which you can serve it. Press it 
together, melt the butter, mix in the flour and milk and 
boil ; sprinkle in the cheese ; pour all over the cauli- 
flower, adding a Uttle cheese on the top, and slightly 
brown it in the oven. 

SALSIFY SCALLOPS 

Scrape some roots of salsify, cut them in short 
lengths and throw them in cold water with lemon- 



DECEMBER 425 

juice in it. Boil them till very tender, then drain 
them and put them into a white sauce. 

LITTLE SAVOURY CREAMS 

Whip the whites of three eggs tiU stiff, add half 
an ounce of grated Parmesan cheese, a small tea- 
spoonful of chopped parsley, one tablespoonful of 
cream ; mix all together, put into small cottage 
pudding tins and steam gently for fifteen minutes. 
Dish up with tomato sauce. This is sufficient for 
four moulds only. 

NVT MEDLEY 

To quarter of a pound of grated almonds add 
one pound of stoned French plums ; pass through a 
mincing machine : to half a pound of desiccated coco- 
nut add two pounds of figs and the grated rinds of 
two oranges, also passed through a mincing machine. 
To quarter of a pound of grated walnuts add one 
pound of stoned dates and the grated rind of one 
lemon. They can then be aU mixed together or pressed 
in separate layers into any shape or mould desired. 

This recipe has the merit of being composed of 
uncooked fruit and nuts, and is most nourishing ; but 
every sort of food that is rough, hke chopped figs 
and nuts, is difficult of digestion, so the above dish 
should be taken only by those who have strong 
digestions or by healthy children. 

December 13th, 1913. — December ! the last dead 
month of the year. Hope revives again in January, and 
then there is plenty to do in the garden and, on bad days, 
in repotting many greenhouse plants. Cacti, especially, 



426 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

want what gardeners call ' doing up ' rather than re- 
planting ; then they may be put into a warmer house and 
watered a httle. I am now in London, away from my 
books and away from all country inspiration. This has 
been such a wonderful frostless autumn in Surrey that 
nearly to the last days the garden was full of flowers, 
and only quite towards the end of November were 
they injured beyond recovery. I have never known 
the dahlias last so long ; and the top flowers, though 
rather small, are very beautiful, and do better in 
water than the early large blooms. Before I left, the 
starry Jasminum nudiflorum was in full flower, and the 
sweet-scented Chimonanthusfragrans was shyly opening 
its flowers along the stalks, though not yet bare, as is 
usual, of its leaves. My autumn-sown wheat on moss 
in flat pans was quite up and in perfection, ready to come 
and stand on the window-ledge. 

The acorns placed on wet moss in October and 
put in a warm greenhouse were showing that often 
not realised wonder, the root that goes downward to 
seek moisture and nourishment in the earth and the 
branch that grows upwards, ultimately to make a 
tree : both start from the same split in the tough 
shell at the pointed end. The httle greenhouse was, 
of course, full of small branching chrysanthemums, 
not disbudded, they last so much longer and are so 
much prettier than the gardeners' favourites — ^large 
heavy-headed ones. The double-white Datura had 
only just given up flowering, and the Niphetos Eose 
had quite lately given four or five good blooms ; and 
a bright pink Abutilon, planted in the ground behind 
the Datura, was covered with its flowers, hanging from 
the roof, close to the glass. 



DECEMBER 427 

Poinsettias are most useful winter plants with 
their humble, insignificant flower, surrounded by 
their glorious wreath of bright crimson leaves — one 
of Nature's wonderful tricks to attract and please 
insects in far-off lands. The difi&culty is that, if 
picked and put into water, they bleed and die directly ; 
the only way to prevent this is to have a candle ready, 
and, the moment the plant is cut, to burn the end till 
it is so charred that no moisture runs from it. 

A great thinker has told us that ' What we think, 
or what we know, or what we beUeve is, in the end, of 
little consequence ; the only thing of consequence is 
what we do.' So said Euskin long ago. The blessing 
of winter is that there is so much more time for books. 
' God be thanked for books, they are the voices of the 
distant and the dead, and make us heirs of the spiritual 
hfe of the past ages. In the best books men talk to 
us ; give us their most precious thoughts, and pour 
their souls into ours.' All my first great love of garden- 
ing grew when I Hved in London ; hungering for the 
country, I read books about gardens. 

A most interesting, important, and long-wanted book 
is coming out this spring, called ' Trees and Shrubs 
Hardy in the British Isles,' by W. J. Bean, Assistant 
Curktof, Eoyal Botanic Gardens, Kew (pubUshed by 
Henry Sotheran & Co., Piccadilly, London; price £2 2s.). 
For years I have waited for a book of this kind. The 
only book of this nature at all was pubhshed by Loudon 
»in 1830, followed later by additional supplements. At 
once comprehensive and authoritative, no other book 
has appeared on the same subject, and, I think, no side 
of English gardening is so little understood as the 
treatment of trees and shrubs. Many of the finest 



428 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

cedars of Lebanon are planted so near the houses that 
it is hard to resist the desire to cut them down. The 
position injures both the house and the tree. The 
first thought in planting should be what these trees 
will be in twenty or thirty years' time. People want 
to see quick results, and they plant shrubberies thickly. 
Then both gardeners and masters are lazy about 
transplanting and thinning out, and, if left to himself, 
the gardener often thinks chopping aU round into 
ugly green lumps is all that is necessary. 

Vegetables are scarce in winter, even in seasonless 
London. One excellent thing can be got in London 
and not in the country : a seaweed called ' fresh ' Laver. 
It is dehcious and wholesome and very rarely seen ; it 
is to be bought at any of the really good grocers — ^not 
greengrocers. The London supply comes, I believe, 
from Devonshire, prepared and cooked, and requires 
nothing but a httle stock and butter to moisten it 
when it is warmed up. It is best served in a small 
copper saucepan with a lamp under it, as it is not 
good unless it is very hot indeed. For helping it, 
a small wooden spoon is better than a silver one ; 
at least, it used to be so served in old days near the 
North coast, where I remember it as a child. Half a 
lemon is sent up with it. A good many people do 
not like it, I am bound to confess ; but those who 
do, find it a treat they look forward to — and it is good 
either by itself or with any roast meat, especially 
mutton. 

An excellent winter salad for serving with wild 
duck and many other birds is watercress, carefully 
picked and washed ; pieces of orange (cut as described 
below for the compote), all the juice of the oranges ; 



DECEMBER 429 

and a little of the best salad oil added just before 
serving. 

Orange comp6te depends almost entirely on the 
goodness of the oranges, and on the way they are cut. 
The best plan is to stick the orange on a fork, and with 
a sharp-pointed kitchen-knife remove, at one cutting, 
all the peel and all the white. Then, with the sharp 
point of the knife, cut out all the pieces of orange 
between the white lines, leaving the white in the middle. 
Save all the juice, and cut small shreds of the peel, 
scraping off the white. Put them into some water 
with sugar and the juice, and if the oranges are very 
sweet, add a little lemon-juice. Boil up this syrup, 
pour it over the pieces of orange, and allow it to cool. 
Great care must be taken that the chips of peel have 
no white on them, or they make the juice bitter. 
This makes a good foundation for any winter compote. 

In London, and, indeed, in many country towns, 
the shops at this time of year are well supplied with 
American cranberries, which come over now very 
little bruised and quite fresh. If these are stewed 
in a little water and sugar and rubbed through a 
fine sieve, as is commonly done with green gooseberries 
and the cream added, a very excellent and unusual 
' fool ' is the result. 

In the book collected and arranged by Georgina, 
Coimtess of Dudley, and called ' The Dudley Cookery 
Book,' published in 1909 by Edward Arnold, there 
are some excellent recipes, one is Mushrooms in 
Cream : ' BoU a pint of cream into which put a few 
white peppercorns and a blade of mace. Eub a piece 
of butter the size of a duck's egg into as much flour 
as it will take. Put it into the boiling cream, stir it 



430 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

until smooth, boil until the flour has lost its raw taste. 
Peel and break up the mushrooms, remove the stalks, 
stew in milk until, soft, and then put them into the 
sauce, add a little salt, and serve very very hot. 
Hand round sUces of bread and butter, on which the 
mushrooms should be poured. A large sauce-boat is 
the best thing to serve up in, and the mushrooms 
should be quite fresh.' Lady Dudley gives no recipe 
for salsify or vegetable oyster (Trago'pogonforrifolium). 
It is often forgotten in English gardens. It should 
be sown in April and dug up in November and stored. 
It has a long fleshy tap-root which, when nicely cooked 
with a white cream sauce, or cut up and fried in light 
batter, with a tomato sauce apart, makes an excellent 
change as a winter vegetable. Salsifies certainly 
have a taste which recalls the oyster, if not over- 
cooked ; and this impression can be increased by 
cutting them into small rounds and soaking them in 
lemon-juice, and serving them with a Uttle cream or 
white sauce, like scalloped oysters, in shells, or small 
china dishes, with bread-crumbs on the top and put 
into the oven tiU they turn brown. Salsifies should 
be ready to eat in November, and if the soil is heavy 
and damp they should be stored in sand. 

December 19th, 1913, — On December 2 I went to the 
last Horticultural Show of the year in Vincent Square, 
I had never before been to one so late in the season, 
and it was interesting. The principal effect of bright 
flowers was from the winter-flowering carnations. I 
think the strain came first from America, and they 
have been brought to the very greatest perfection, and 
last quite as well cut and in water as on the plant. 
But, alas ! they cannot be grown by the amateur at 



DECEMBER 431 

all satisfactorily, unless given a small greenhouse all 
to themselves. They want plenty of air, even 
temperature, and not too much heat. They are not 
diflScult to grow if they get just what they want. 
This was the same with the lovely Cape heaths in the 
early- Victorian days, a few of which survive at Covent 
Garden and in flower-shops. I never see them in 
private collections now. 

Cannell's Show of Single-flowering Pelargoniums 
was very beautiful both in size and colour, and not 
to be surpassed, but they are not very useful winter- 
flowering plants, except for those who hve close to 
their own greenhouses, as they will not pack for travel, 
shedding all their beautiful bright petals. The only 
way to prevent this is to drop a Httle melted gum 
arable into the centre of each flower, and this is very 
troublesome and takes a good deal of the gardener's 
time, which is even more precious in winter than in the 
summer, because of the short days, I give a few names 
of Cannell's best coloured pelargoniums : P. ' Eose 
Queen,' P. ' Dublin,' P. ' Duke of Bedford,' P. ' King 
Victor,' P. ' P. J. P. Jarman.' All these were different 
shades of scarlet and crimson — the last a gorgeous dark 
colour new to me. P. ' White Queen ' was a fine large 
pure white ; P. ' Lady Warwick ' was a white shghtly 
tinted with pink ; and P- ' Sir Thomas Hanbury,' a 
very dark one — deep wine-colour, but not very pretty, 
to my mind. 

In a vase some cut branches of Arbutus Unedo were 
most decorative, covered with fruit, ripe and unripe, 
and now and then, as is their way, a little waxy white 
flower. These branches came from an old plant 
grown in the open in Kent. They never, so far as 



432 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

I have seen, flourish like this in Surrey. These 
branches might have come, and could not have been 
better, from the shores of the Mediterranean. 

Some pots of Iris stylosa, both blue and white, 
attracted my attention and excited my jealousy. So 
I asked the seller how they were grown ; and he 
kindly told me, and what he said is certainly what I 
shall try and follow. In September the leaves are 
rather severely shortened back ; this ripens the 
growth which holds the bud. These are looked for 
in November, and then pieces are dug up and pressed 
into a pot with peat and stood in a warm greenhouse 
and well watered. In a week or ten days there ought 
to be several flowers. Later on the plants can be 
again planted out, to grow on for another year. 

I have often tried this plan with the ' Lenten Eoses,' 
the spring Hellebores, and it answers perfectly, and 
the pots are full of flowers long before they are out 
in the open. They are lovely things, the cream and 
the white and the lilac all marked with dark veins. 
But all the Hellebores only look well picked if they 
are floated Uke roses with the stalks cut short in large 
glass or copper bowls. The prettiest glass bowls 
are blue French hand-basins, to be got in a china- 
shop, in Beauchamp Place, S.W. A charming plant 
for winter greenhouse flowering I did not see at the 
Show is Moschosma riparium. It looks rather like an 
ordinary spiraea, but prettier ; it mixes excellently with 
the heavy scarlet heads of the Poinsettias. 

I have been reading lately the fourth and last of 
Sir Herbert Maxwell's charming ' Memories of the 
Month,' and hope he will forgive me for copying the 
remedy he gives for the Madonna-lily disease, which 



DECEMBER 433 

troubles in a greater or less degree so many of us, 
especially on light soils. It is to spray the plant with 
sulphate of copper — an ounce to the gallon of water, 
increased to two ounces to three gallons of water as 
the plant gets stronger, during the growing season. 
This plan was suggested by Smith of Newry. He 
thinks the fungus only attacks the leaves, as the bulbs 
remain quite healthy. This is my experience. Smith 
of Newry sells an improved form of ' Venus' Looking- 
glass,' named ' Newry's Giant ' in Mr. Smith's seed 
catalogue. 

January is one of the most exciting months of the 
year, as the catalogues have to be much studied and 
decisions come to as to what annuals and biennials 
are to be grown. One of the things that never dawned 
upon me when I first began gardening was how many 
things can be grown from seed with care and patience, 
whether hard, half-hardy, or greenhouse. The really 
hardy flowers are best not grown on in frames at all. 
They do best sown out of doors in March and April. 
Sweet Peas do best, if wanted early, sown three or 
four in a small pot, and planted out in a well-made 
trench in April, just as they come out of the pot, not 
at all divided. 

Most people who love their gardens get fond of 
birds. They do eat the fruit, but that can be protected, 
or we can spare some. Bird-boxes are a great help 
in encouraging the rather rarer birds, such as tits, 
nuthatches, redstarts, woodpeckers, wrynecks, swifts, 
and pied wagtails. All these will build in special 
boxes. They are best put up in October, but they 
can be placed as late as January, and are to be got 
from the Eoyal Society for the Protection of Birds, 

2s 



434 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

23 Queen Anne's Gate, S.W. Up to now I have used 
cigar-boxes and other small wooden boxes, but I 
am bound to confess they have more often been 
appropriated by robins than by the rarer birds. 

A book has come out this Christmas, ' The Kitchen 
Garden and the Cook,' by C. M. Pearse (Smith, Elder 
& Co.': 6s.). It is the same Mrs. Pearse who wrote the 
' Romance of a Great Singer ' — the wonderful, handsome 
Mario of operatic fame in my young days. The book 
is well arranged alphabetically, and is especially useful 
in its directions for cultivating and cropping vegetables 
in a small garden, and it has an echo of Italy, both in 
the unusual vegetables named and the use and cooking 
of the same, which is only to be expected from Mario's 
daughter. As an example of her exhaustive methods, 
I will copy what she says of our well-known friend, 
parsley : — 

' Afium Petroselinum {Umbelliferae). Parsley once 
acquired a bad name, from the misuse of a wild 
Sardinian kind. The Sardinians beUeved that they 
had absolutely no poisonous native plant, but this 
proved the exception to the rule, and the trusting 
native who ate it died in such horrible fashion that 
the phrase " sardonic grin " arose from the contortions 
its effects produced upon their faces. Seed of our 
ordinary variety, however, may be sown at any time 
in spring or summer, but for summer use it is generally 
sown in March. Good garden soil will grow parsley. 
As the seed is slow and rather uncertain in germinating, 
it may be sown rather thicker than is usual for some 
seeds. As soon as the plants are in their second 
leaf, single them in the row, a fortnight later thin out 
to nine inches apart. Parsley is generally used as an 



DECEMBER 435 

edging to the kitchen garden. A fine sowing in a 
sheltered bed will provide plants for the winter, and 
the gardener must be prepared to give some protection 
of mats during severe weather if he wishes to always 
satisfy the cook. An August sowing will provide 
plants which in well-drained soil will usually stand 
the winter and carry the gardener well through the' 
spring. 

' Dried parsley intended for winter use should be 
gathered before it loses its tender shade of green. It 
is first blanched in boiling water for one minute, then 
put into the oven, which must not be too hot, and 
when dry rubbed through a sieve and stored in bottles 
for use. 

' Pried parsley. — Wash some sprigs of fresh parsley 
in cold water, then dry them carefully ; put the 
parsley into a wire basket, and fry in butter or oUve 
oil for about a minute, when it ought to be crisp. 

' Chopped parsley. — This is used to decorate new 
potatoes. Parsley is also used to flavour soups and 
sauces, and in sprigs to decorate savoury dishes. 

' Dried parsley. — Gather the parsley and spread 
out to dry in front of the fire, or in the oven if not too 
hot. When dry the leaves should be reduced to a 
fine powder by rubbing through a hair sieve, and 
stored in well-corked bottles.' 

This is a good specimen of how thorough the book 
is. All vegetables are treated in the same way, with 
all the different ways they can be cooked, after 
describing how best to grow them. At the end of the 
book is an excellent and most instructive chapter 
by A. C. Curtis on successional cropping in small 
gardens. And very few people reahse the continuity 

2f2 



436 POT-POURRI MIXED BY TWO 

and quantity of good green vegetables that can be 
raised from a small plot of garden ground year after 
year, with careful working and renewing of the soil. 

I suppose everyone feels at the turn of the year a 
kind of awe as to what is in store for them, so I end 
with two quotations which may well yield food for 
reflection at the present season. Of the first, the 
author is unknown to me ; the second is by Walter 
Savage Landor : 

To love, to be merciful, to labour, to rest, to make merry, 
to sacrifice, and to worship are the seven duties of man. 

I strove with none, for none was worth my strife ; 

Nature I loved, and next to Nature, Art ; 
I warmed both hands before the fire of lite ; 

It sinks, and I am ready to depart. 



INDEX 



Abelias, 328-9 
Abutilon, 426 
Aohilleas, 326, 382 
Acid fruit, recipe for, 226 
Aconites, -winter, 77, 372 ; in 

water, 401 
Aconitum — Fisoheri,326; Lycoc- 

tonum, 326; Napellus, 326, 

419 ; pjTenaicum majus, 217 ; 

various, 381 
Acorns, sprouting, 426 
Adenophora lilifolia, 284 ; Pota- 

nini, 381 ; striota, 377, 381 
Adonis vemalis, 73, 377 
Aesoulus parviflora, 421-2 
Agapanthus, 374 ; Cape, 398-9 
Ageratums, 381 
Agrostemma, 383 
Aix, 101 ; Iris at, 134 
Alba, Duchess of, 301 
Albert, Prince Consort, 315-16 
Alcohol, 34, 235 
Alexandra, Queen, 103 
Alexandria, 96 

Ahnond tree, Chinese white, 43 
Alonsoa cutifolia, 375 
Alpine plants, 393-4, 414 ; wall- 
flowers, 84 
Althaea rosea, 383 
Alyssum saxatile, 14, 376 ; in 

walls, 79 ; in beds, 209 ; 

sweet, 81, 110, 382 ; yeEow, 140 
Amamath, 168 
Ampelopsis, 200 
Anacreon (quoted), 2-3 ; 
Anchusa capensis, 381 ; Italica, 

47, 75, 380 ; to increase, 109 ; 

opal, 284, 381 



Anderson, Miss Ruth, 318 

Andromedae, 328 

Anemone apennina, 46, 402 ; 

blanda, 402 ; Japanese, 94, 

382-3 ; nemorosa bracteata, 

373 ; Pulsatilla, 73 ; wood, 

373 
Anemones, 169, 323 
Animal language, 16 
Anne, Queen, 4 
Anne Boleyn, Queen, 303 
Anthemis — Kelwayi, 376 ; tinc- 

toria, 376 
Annuals, ground for, 25 ; sowing 

76, 79; haH hardy, 105; 

self-sown, 140 ; changing, 201 ; 

colour arrangement of 374^5 ; 

in masses, 421 
Antirrhinum Asarina, 159 
Antirrhinums, 23, 143, 375-6, 

382-3 ; in walls, 79 ; seeding, 

290. (See also under Snap- 
dragons) 
Ants, damage by, 219 
Antwerp, 237 

Apium Petroselinum, 434r-5 
Apple-trees, hardy, 236 ; seeds 

raised under, 282 ; planting, 

335-6 
Apples — fallen, 289 ; codlin, 

291; Newton pippins, 321 ; 

recipe for sour, 226 
Apricot jam, 193 
Aquilegia lutea, 376 ; vulgaris, 

20 ; various, 381 
Arabis, 14, 77, 382 ; double, 140, 

209, 336 ; in walls, 79 
Aranja Albeus, 200 



437 



438 



INDEX 



Arbutus Unedo, 431-2 
Archies, collie, 16, 114, 145, 175, 

329 
Ardennes, 242 
Aristotle on hibernation, 3 
Armeria vulgaris, in walls, 79 
Army and Navy Stores, 30, 342 
Arnold, Matthew (quoted), 373 
Artemisia — Draounoulus, 396 ; 

latifolia, 302 
Artichoke soup, 29, 87 
Artichokes — Chinese, 118, 119 ; 

globe, 23, 94 ; fried Japanese, 

385 ; Jerusalem, 25, 189, 340, 

373 
Ashmolean Museum, 228 
Asparagus, bad for gout, 410 
Asperula azurea setosa, 381 
Asphodels, Oriental, 285 
Asprey, Mr., 36 
Asquith, Rt. Hon. H. H.,-65 
Aster Amellus, 418 
Asters, 80, 218 ; single, 115, 379 ; 

varieties of, 379, 383 
Astreomerias, 67 
Aubretias, 46, 140 ; on walls, 79 ; 

seeding, 188 ; mauve, 209 ; 

moving, 280 ; increasing, 389 
Aucuba, 95 
Austin, E. E., ' The House Fly 

as a Danger to Health,' 130 
Azaleas, hardy, 19 



Backhottse's German Iris, 135 

Baden-Baden, 297 

Badgers, 92-3, 321-2 

Baloombe, Betsy (afterwards 
Mrs. Abel), 60-1 

Balsam, 383 ... 

Bamboos, 357 

Bambusa Metake, 19 

Barbed wire, 86 

Barberry, to restore colour to, 336 

Bardswell, Mrs., 'The Herb 
Garden,' 395-6 

Barr, Mr., on daffodils, 172 

Barr's Nursery, 133, 389 ; clear- 
ance sale, 372-3 

Barrenworts, 136 

Barrington, Hon. Daines, 2-3 



Bean, W. J., ' Trees and Shrubs,' 

427 
Bean croquettes, 88 
Beans — broad, 23, 189, 198; 
sowing, 55 ; topping, 151 ; 
' au Jus,' 192 

dwarf kidney, 150 ; sowing, 189 

Egyptian, 189 

French, 87, 118, 188 ; sowing, 
145 : sowing dwarf, 189 ; 
stewed, 225 ; recipe for, 259 

haricot, 198 ; to cook, 343 

kidney, 198 

scarlet runner, to cook, 403 
Beard, Sidney, ' Guide Book ' 

(quoted), 29 
Beasley, Sidney, ' Shakespeare's 

Garden, '229 
Beck, Mrs. (quoted), 162-72 
Bedlam, 33-5 
Bee, Messrs., 80 
Bee bahn, 375, 419 
Bee, leaf -cutting, 219, 220 
Bees, 418 ; telling the, 44 ; 

swarming, 146-7 ; disease of, 

147; life of, 148-50; water 

for, 186 ; and wasps, 323 
Beet. (See under Seakale and 

Spinach) 
Beetroot — Egyptian, 119 ; 

savoury, 295 ; soup, 257 ; 

turnip-rooted, 87 
Begas, Oscar, 251 
Begonias, 62 ; wild, 167 ; red, 

375 
Bell glasses, 280-2 
Berberidopsis corallina, 332 
Berberis Darwini, 103 
Berberries, 78 
Beta vulgaris, 417 
Biennials, 201 
Bilson, Messrs., 89 
Birds — migration of, 1-4 ; indi- 
viduality among, 54 ; in 

spring, 108 ; nesting boxes 

for, 108-9, 155, 433; and 

manure, 130, 154 
Bishop's Waltham, 285, 335, 363 
Blackberries, 94 
Blackman, origin of the name, 

334 



INDEX 



439 



Bluebottle fly. 37-8. [See also 

under Flies) 
Bliokling, 268 
Blunt, Wilfrid, ' Love Sonneta 

of Proteus,' 263 
Blytheburgh, 265 
Boleyn, Anne, 271 
Bologna, 104 
Bonfire ashes, 110 
Books, 427 
Booth, General, 71, 346 ; Mrs., 

346 
Boots, Lady, 313 
Boots for gardening, 287, 291 
Borage, Italian, 47 
Botanical terms, list of, 215-17 
Botany, 228 
Botticelli, 125 

Boy Scout Movement, 304^5 
Braohycome — iberidifolia, 381 ; 

' White Star,' 383 
Brambles, 20, 78 
Brassica oleracea, 93 
Brazil nut soup, 151 
Bridewell Hospital, 33 
British Hospital Associations, 

195 
Brick paths, 11, 13, 20 
Broadlands Cookery Book 

(quoted), 29 
Broccoli, to cook, 153 ; planting 

out, 189 
Bromserberg Castle, 250 
Bronte, Charlotte, 204, 353; 

quoted, 317 
Brontes, Poems of the, 90 
Brooklands, 320 
Broom, 78, 388 ; seedling, 144 ; 

rush, 420 ; Spanish, 78 
Browallia — elata nana, 378 ; 

speoiosa major, 416 
' Brown, Jones and Robinson,' 

300 
Browne, Sir Thomas, 267 
Browning, Mrs. E. B., 90 
Brussels, 239 
Brussels sprouts, 150 ; seed, 

199 ; autumn sowing, 291 
Bryophyllum calycinum, 422 
Buddleia globosa, 173 
Bulb list, 208 



Bulbs, soil for, 211 ; time to 

order, 400 
BuU baiting, 320 
Bullaoe, 372 
Bulrushes, 169 
Bulwer-Lytton, Sir Edward, 350; 

quoted, 66 
Burbank, Mr., 351 
Burma, 163 seq. 
Bume-Jones, Sir Edward, 124 
Bums, Kobert (quoted), 351 
Bury St. Edmimds, 275 
Bush fruit, enclosed, 12, 23 
Byng, Admirals 363 
Byron, Lord, 204, 347-9 ; quoted, 

351 ; Lady, 349-50 



Cabbage, crab, 341 ; intro- 
duction of the, 212 : red, 116; 
salad, 294: spring, 223; 
summer, 119 ; wild, 93 

Cactus, 406, 425-6 

Caeruleaa, 81 

Calceolaria Burbidgei, 302 

Calceolarias, 376-7 ; cuttings, 
141 

Campanula grandis, 176 ; lacti- 
flora, 419 

Campanulas, 52, 76 ; wild, 110 ; 
varieties of, 378-83 ; Swiss, 
390 

Camping, 239 seq. 

Candytuft, 82, 110, 209, 218, 
278, 382-3; sowing, 50; 
perennial, 14 

Cannas, 85, 375 

CaimeU, Messrs., 431 

Canning, Lady, 196 

Canterbury bells, 323, 380 

Cape figwort, 325 ; heaths, 431 

Caper spurge, 48 

Cardamine pratensis, 20 ; rotun- 
difolia, 74 

Carey, Dr. Henry, 251 

Carnations, 80-1, 94, 106, 404; 
disbudding, 182 ; transplant- 
ing, 214, 329 ; American 
winter flowering, 413, 430 ; 
Grenadin, 375 ; Marguerite, 
23, 377 



440 



INDEX 



Carpentaria Califomica, 327 
Carrot soup, 119 
Carrots h TAllemande, 294 
Carrots, horn, 23, 86, 119, 150-1 ; 

sowing, 189 ; introduction of, 

212 ; long, 151 
Cassia oorymbosa, 399 
Cat-mint, 14, 110, 139-40, 396 
Cauliflower, sowing early, 24 
planting out, 86, 118 
autumn sowing, 291, 340 
protecting, 384 

a la Baronne, souffle of, 341 

au gratin, 424 

fried, 224 
Ceanothus, 77 
Cedars of Lebanon, 426 
Celeriac, 87, 145 ; and rice 

braised, 30 
Celery, sowing, 24, 87 ; loss of 

flavour in large, 24 ; trenches, 

150 ; planting out, 189 ; seed, 

199 ; al Pomidoro, 89-90 
Celsia aroturus, 62 
Centaureas, 81, 375, 381 
Centranthus ruber, 79 
Cerastium, 14, 375, 382; on 

walla, 79 
Cereus (night flowering), 201-2, 

406 
Ceylon, 162 
Charles I, 38, 96 
Charles II, 363 
Cheal, Messrs., 232 
Cheese, fritters, 293 (Wood- 
lands), 89 

gelatine, 191 

melted, 191 

pudding, 121 

souiB6, 88-9 
Cheiranthus alpinus, 46 ; ' Har- 
per Crewe,' 200-1, 389 
Cherries, morella, 77 
Cherry trees, 253 
Chestnut outlets, 57-8 ; souffle, 

30; soup, 423; stew, 386; 

trees (sweet), 236 
Chicken manure, 76 
Chicken yard, shrubs in, 373 
Chicory, 86 ; sowing, 117 
Chilblains, 262 



Children, training of, 367-9 

Chimpnanthus fragrans, 426 

Chionodoxas, 323 

Chittenden, Mr., 107 

Choisya, 40 ; tomata, 134 

Christmas roses, 49-50, 84, 106, 
417 

Chrysanthemums, 22, 214, 233, 
282, 302, 373-4, 382; treat- 
ment of, 72, 283, 290, 426; 
repotting, 84, 141, 180 ; plant- 
ing out, 109 ; watering, 221 ; 
disbudding, 282, 336; in 
water, 352 ; annual, 377 ; in 
pots, 377 ; early, 378, 412, 418 

Chocolate sweet, a useful, 410 

Churchill, Winston, ' The Inside 
of the Cup,' 354 

Chutney, 121 

Cimioifuga racemosa, 288 

Cinerarias, 62, 375 

Cinnamon, 166 

Cireus, 219 

Cistus, 78 ; cuttings, 141 

Clarke, Eagle, ' Studies in Bird 
Migration,' 1-4 

Clarkias, 416 ; autumn sown, 
421 ; ' Queen Mary,' 383 

Clay's Fertiliser, 336 

Clematis, 78, 103 ; Flammula, 
78 ; herbaceous, 214-15 ; 
Vitalba, 78 

Clethra alnitolia, 74 ; arborea, 
74 

Clogs for gardening, 291 

Clove tree, 166 

Cobnuts, 236 

Coblentz, 249-50 

Coello, artist, 301 

Coffee, harmless brands of, 70 

Colcannon, 385 

Colchicums, 77, 370 

Cold, to cure a, 320 

Collinsia bicolor, 378 

CoUinson, Joseph (quoted), 322 

Cologne, 251 

Colombo, 166 

Colour scheme of flowers, 437 

t seq. 

Coltsfoot, 352 

Columbine, 20, 169, 376, 381 



INDEX 



441 



Commelina coeleatis, 380 

Compton Gallery, 122 seq. 
Pottery at, 13, 398 

Compton Wynyates, 232 

Connaught, Duchess of, 196 

Convolvulus cneorum, 49 ; blue, 
156 ; white, 177 

Cook, E. T., ' Trees and Shrubs,' 
422 

Co-partnership Tenants' Co., 
306-9 

Copper beech, 19, 173, 331 

Coreopsis, 376 

Corhampton, 334 

Coriander, 220 

Corn-salad, 86, 280, 391 ; sowing, 
55 

Cornflowers, 81, 381 ; self- 
sown, 290 

' Comhill Magazine,' 353 

Comus sibirica, 19 

Coronilla glauca, 17-18, 103 

Correvon, M., 393 

Corydalis, 79 

Corydalis bulbosa, 373 

Corylus purpurea, 331 

Cotoneaster applanata, 328, 357 

Cottagers, how to help, 52-3 

Cotton grass, 173 

Cow (Shetland), 54, 222 

Cowslip, 173 ; American, 287 

Cox, David, 135-6 

Crab apple, 174; jelly, 332; 
flowering, 332 

Crab cabbage, 341 

Cranberries, 26 

Cranberry ' fool,' 429 

Crataegus, 19, 78, 357 

Cream savoury, 425 

Creepers, 221, 281, 360, 370 

Creeping Jenny, variegated, 413 

Cr^me de Topinambours, 31 

Crime, diminution of, 344 

Crinums, 414 

Crocus, 41, 370 ; autunm, 77 ; 
in grass, 210-11, 401-2; 
varieties of, 210-11 ; treat- 
ment of, 211 ; wild autumn, 
?Q8 

Cromwell, Oliver, 212 

Crown Imperials, 376, 408 



Cuckoo, 154-5 ; flower (double), 

20, 74 
Cucumber, cream soup, 189 ; 

soup, 257 ; stewed, 259 
Cucumbers, sowing, 23 ; under 

handlights, 141 ; planting, 143 
Currant bushes, beans between, 
23 ; dusting with lime, 24 ; 
flowering, 40, 78 

(black), tea from leaves of, 
407 

(red) jelly, 26 ; to make, 
397-8 
Curry powder, 30, 342 
Curtis, A. C, 435 
' Cut and come again,' 9 
Cutting back, 45, 422, 427 
Cuttings, soil for, 22 ; atmo- 
sphere for, 76 ; beds for, 182 ; 

watering of, 281-2 
Cyclamens, varieties of, 180-1 ; 

scent of, 199 

Daffodils, 41, 77, 132, 323, 

372; as Welsh emblem, 59- 

60 ; time to cut down, 107-8 ; 

Mr. Barr on, 172-3 ; forcing, 

401 ; double, 172-3 ; Peruvian, 

399 
Dahlias, 283, 302 ; to increase, 

109 ; show, 232-3 ; varieties 

of, 375-6, 413; out, 426; 

Pompon, 379 
Daily Graphic (quoted), 295 
Daily Mail, 310 
' Dainty Dishes ' (quoted), 88, 

225 
Daisies, 421 ; double, 46, 209, 

278 ; ox-eyed, 420-1 
Dal Lake, 169 
Dalbergia, tree, 36 
Damson trees, 236 
Daphne Cneorum, 49 ; Meze- 

reum, 19 
Darwin, Dr., ' Loves of the 

Plants,' 202 
Daturas, 412, 426 
Davies, Messrs., 412 
Davis, W. (quoted), 59 
Delphinium nudicaule, 49-, 74 ; 

' Mrs. Roper,' 378 



442 



INDEX 



Delphiniums, 112; to increase, 
83, 109 ; dwarf blue, 421 ; 
varieties of, 380, 382 

Desmodium penduliflorum, 412 

Deutzias, 43-4, 78 

Dianthus, 81, planting, 143 ; 
oaesius, 157 ; sweet-scented, 
182 

Dibdin's 'The Sailors' Con- 
solation,' 8-9 

Diotamnus Fraxinella alba, 383 

Diet, and climate, 168 ; and 
health, 234-6, 252 ; for lunacy, 
346-7 

' Diet, Health through,' 67 

Digitalis purpurea, 232, 394 

Dimorphotheca aurantiaoa, 377 ; 
hybrida, 421 

Dioscorides (quoted), 158-9 

Dissma ericoides, 328 

Dobbie, Messrs., 233 

Docks, 25, 74 

Dodeoatheon Meadia, 287 

Dogs, language of, 16 ; con- 
science of, 144 ; habits of, 
174-5 , 208 ; treatment of, 
324^5, 355-6 ; for draught, 329 

Dogwoods, 19 

Doronicum, 376 

Dover, 93 ; Castle, 95-6 

Downs, 332-3 

Dracooephalum Moldavicum, 
378 

Dreams, 336-7 

Drought, mulching in, 188 

Dudley, Lady, ' Cookery Book,' 
quoted, 28, 340-1, 411, 429 

Duelling, 92 



Eable, Lionel, 32, 94 
East Meon, 334 
Bocremocarpus seaber, 389-90 
Eohinops Bitro, 421 
Eohium vulgare, 93 
Echtemach, 239, 244 
Eokford (quoted), 76 
Eczema, diet and, 70 
Eddystone Lighthouse, 4^5, 96 
Edinburgh Botanical Gardens, 
331 



Edward VII, King, 103 ; quoted, 
91-2 ; death of, 104-5 

Edwards, George, ' Natural His- 
tory of Birds,' 2 

Egg cutlets, 261 

Elaeaguus macrophyllus, 328 

Eliot, George (quoted), 18 

Ellaoombe, Canon, ' Plant Lore 
and Garden Craft of Shake- 
speare,' 229 

Elm tree, 304 

Emelia sagittata, 375 

' Encyclopaedia Britannica ' 
(quoted), 35 

Endive, 41, 383, 419; sowing, 
291 ; broad-leaved, 223 ; to 
keep, 391 ; French recipe for, 
391 

English, Douglas, 155 

' English Review,' 36 

Epionedium, 136 

Eremurus, 285 

Erigeron macranthus, 378 ; 
mucronatus, 217 ; speoiosus, 
173, 378 ; white, 323 

Erisymums, 46, 188 

Erodium chrysanthemum, 183 

Eryngiums, 78, 381, 421 

Erysimum Arkansanum, 389 

Erythrina Crista-galli, 399 

Escallonia, 77 

Eschscholzia tennifolia, 82 

Eschscholzias, 94, 376 

Esher, 272; Place, 330 

Ethium, 158 

Eucryphia pinnatifolia, 422 

Euonymus, 42-3, 94 ; Euro- 
paeus, 43 ; silver, 210 

Euphorbia WuUeni, 412 

Euphorbias, 48 

Eutoca viscida, 381 

Evening primrose, 20, 76 

Everlastings, 143 

Exochorda grandiflora, 387 



Eabee, Henri, 36-9 
Face wash, 203 
Fair Isle, 5 
Fairoak, 335 
Fareham, 334, 364 



INDEX 



443 



Farrer, Reginald, ' My Rock 

Garden, 393 
Felixstowe, 265, 277 
Fennel, 396 
Fern, lemon -scented, 361-2 ; 

polypody, 372 
Fems, 371 
Fig-tree, 94 
Figwort, Cape, 325 
Filberts, purple, 19, 331 
Fireproof pottery, 27 
Flax, 382 ; toad-, 79, 394 
Flesh fly, 37-8 
Flies, reduction of, 127-30, 154. 

(See also under Bluebottles) 
' Flora and Sylva,' 180, 330 
' Flore Medicale,' 396 
Flower Shows, 198, 217 ; charity 

stall at, 217-18 ; wild, 173 
Foal, humours of a, 333 ; apples 

for, 336 
Foeniculum vulgare, 396 
Folkestone, 93-4 
Food reformers, 390 
Force-meat balls, 28 
Forcing plants, 40, 432 
Forder, grocer, 27 
Forestry, 253 
Forget-me-not, 20, 134, 140, 209, 

323, 410 ; in Kashmir, 169 ; 

sowing, 188 ; (water), 20, 82 
Forsythias, 62 
Fossils, 333 
Foxes, 85 
Foxgloves, 77, 79, 394; white, 

157 ; sowing, 188 ; origin of 

name, 232, 394 
Fragaria indica, 416 
Frangipani, 163 

Freesias, 220, 402 ; potting, 283 
Freiburg, 299 

Friar Park Rock Garden, 395 
French beans. {See under Beans) 
Friendship, 314^15 
FritaUcria imperialis, 408 ; 

meleagris, 373 ; in pots, 408 ; 

' Snakes' Head,' 209, 373 
Fruit trees, summer pruning of, 

290-1 
Fry, Mrs. Elizabeth (quoted), 



Frying, 26 

Fuchsia prooumbens, 416 

Fuchsias, 214, 403 ; cuttings of 

52 ; in pots, 398 
Fulgens, 81, 402 
Funkia subcordata grandiflora, 

383 



Gaillaedias, 376 ; autumn 

sown. 421 
Gainsborough Silk Weaving Co., 

273 
Gainsborough, Thomas, 272 
Galega Hartlandi, 378 
Gallica rubra, 101 
Game, preservation of dead, 

38 
Game's, 316-17 
' Garden ' (quoted), 361 
' Garden Diary,' 110 
' Gardening for the Ignorant,' 

22, 25, 117, 197 
'Gardening Illustrated' (quoted), 

112 
Garibaldi, 101, 103 
Garland flower, 49 
Gaultheria procumbens, 263 
Gaura Lindheimeri, 421 
Gelatine cheese, 191 
Genista alba, 19 ; praecox, 

388-9 
Genoa, 101 
Gentiana aoaulis, 143 
Gentlewomen, hospital for, 196 
George, old servant, 336 
Geranium, creeping wild, 77, 

410 ; grandiflorum, 380 ; pra- 

teuse, 394 ; scented, in pot 

pourri, 220 ; traversi, 285 
Greraniums, varieties of, 179-82, 

219, 380 ; for rock gardens, 

394 
Gerardi (quoted), 93-4 
Germany, bicycling tour in, 237 

seq. ; walking tour in, 297 sej. 
Gilbert, sculptor, 184 
Gilia coronopifolia, 201 ; seeding, 

290 
Gill, Sir David, 231 
Gipsies, 186-7 



444 



INDEX 



Girls, independence for, 309 ; 

education and prospects for, 

310-13 ; careers for, 313-15 
Glabra, 283 
Gladioli, 233, 376 
Gladstone, W. E., on the 

Reform Bill (1867), 65; and 

Grocers' Licences, 235 
Goats, 85, 174, 221-3, 333 
' God Save the King," 251 
Godetia rubicunda, 383 ; double, 

421 
Goethe (quoted), 314 
' Gold dust.' (See Alyssum) 
GoldEsh, 404 
Gooseberry bushes, dusting with 

lime, 24 
Gooseberry jam, 193 
Gosport, 364 
Gout, black currant leaf tea for, 

407-8 
Goya, artist, 300-1 
Grafton Gallery, 300-1 
Grane, Canon (quoted), 91 
Grape cure for colds, 321 
Grass paths, dressing, 51 
Gravy, vegetarian, 57 
Green pea souffle, 192 ; soup, 190 
Greenhouse, 15 ; plants for, 

305-6 
Grey, Sir Edward (quoted), 92 
Groundsel, digging in, 55 
Gumey, Dorothy F., ' Poems,' 

196 
Gynmocladus Canadensis, 19 
Gypsophila paniculata, 383, 418- 

19 



Haig, Dr. Alexander, 67-9 
Haig, Kenneth G., 'Health 

through Diet,' 67-70, 163 
Hampshire idiom, 75 
Hampton Court, 271-2 ; in 

autumn, 202-3 ; wistaria at, 

361 ; chrysanthemums at, 

412 ; dahlias at, 413 
Hare, A. J. C, 'Walks in 

London' (quoted), 35, 142 
Haricot beana saut^, 153 ; soup, 

293 



Harris, Frank, ' The Man Shake- 
speare,' 229-31 
Harvey sauce, 294-5 
Hawthorn, 174, 332 
Hay, in cooking, 199 
Hazel-nut trees, 236 
Headache, diet and, 70 
' Health through Diet,' 67-70 
' Healthward Ho ! ' 71 
Heather, wild, 277 ; dye from, 

279 
Heaths, Cape, 431 
Heddewigii ' Crimson Bell,' 383 
Hedge sparrow, 154 
Hedychium Gardnerianum, 415- 

16 
Hedysarum multijugum, 19 
Heger, M., 204 
Helenium autumnale, 376 
Helianthus, 376 
Helichrysums, 143, 383 
Heliotrope, 214, 378 
HeUebores, 10, 49-50, 84, 106; 

forcing, 432 
Hemana, Felicia (quoted), 135 
Hemerocallis aurantiaoa, 376 ; 

flava, 376 
Henley, rook garden at, 395 
Henry VIII, 303 
' Herald of the Golden Age,' 30, 

72, 191-2 ; quoted, 293 
Herb-bed, 218 
Herb, flavouring in vegetarian 

cookery, 26 ; garden, 395 
Herbaceous beds, 228 ; tidying, 

51, 110; Ufting, 285, 408; 

arrangement of, 323, 417-18 ; 

colour arrangement in, 374 
Herbs, ancient use of, 212 ; 

taste in, 220 ; sweet-scented, 

in pot pourri, 220 
Hesperis — matronalis albo-pleno, 

48-9 ; tristia, 82 ; violaoea, 

82 
Heuchera hispida, 323-4 ; mic- 

rantha rosea, 176 ; sanguinea 

325, 409-10 
Hibernation of animals, 3 
Hodgkinson, Mrs. (now Mrs. 

Beck) (quoted), 162-72 
Hoe, Canterbury, 118 



INDEX 



445 



Holiday reading, 194-5 

Holland House, 125 

Hollies, 303-^ 

HoUyer, photographer, 122 

Hollyhocks, 143, 177, 280, 383 ; 

single, 420 
Holmes, Robert, 352 
Home Arts and Industries, 123 
Homer (quoted), 170 
Hominy outlets, 121 
Honesty, 46, 209, 323, 388 
Honey, 212 
Honeysuckle, 78, 103, 328 ; 

Dutch, 157 ; Japanese, 157 
Hong Kong, 331 
Hornbeam, 157 
Horse, diet and the, 235 
Horse-mint, 396 
Hoof parings, for manure, 115, 

283 
Horsham, 200, 319, 320 
Horticultural Show, 430 
Hospital for Gentlewomen, 196 
Hospitals, 196 
Hotbed, 22, 74 ; material for a, 

182 ; for potting, 291 
House of Commons, 204 
Humamelis arborea, 331 ; Japo- 

nica, 331 ; Virginica, 331 
Humea elegans, 415 
Hunter, Dr., 320 
Hunstanton, 269 
Huskisson, Mr., 365 
Hyacinths, 41 ; in bowls, 62 ; 

wild, 77; in beds, 209; 

varieties of, 400-1 
Hydrangea Molidre, 302 ; pan - 

culata, 268 
Hydrangeas, 302, 374; to 

change the colour of, 413 
Hypericum, 94 



Ibbeis, 14, 209; rosea, 383; 

sempervirens, 382 ; umbel- 

lata, 82 
Ices, simple water, 407 
Illustrated London News, 232, 

387 
Incarvillea — Delavayi, 199-200 ; 

grandiflora, 200 



Indian com, 198 

Indian Dall, 28 

Infantile enteritis, 128-9 ; mor- 
tality, 306 

Influenza, cure for, 321 

Insecticide, bees and, 148 

Insomnia, remedy for, 137-8 

Inula grandiflora, 183 

lonopsidium acaule, 112-13, 378 

Ipomoea rubro-caerulea, 156 

Iris, 94, 102, 140 ; at Aix, 134 ; 
time to increase, 134-5 ; early 
flowering varieties, 213-14 ; 
variegated 325 ; purple, 378 ; 
varieties of, 381 ; flavescens, 
377 ; Spanish, 377-8, 381 ; 
stylosa, 352 ; forced, 432 

Isle of Wight disease, 147 

Ismene, 399 

Isolirion, 177 

Itahan May, 102 

Italy, cheap tour in, 97-105 

Ivy, 200 ; ground 77, 372 

Ixias, 373 



' Jack in the Green,' 373 
Jackson, Messrs., 342 
Jaoobaeas, 82, 375, 378 
James I, 320 
' Jane,' fox-terrier, 16, 17, 85, 

175, 329; and visitors, 113, 

144-5, 221 
Japanese cherry, 40 ; willow, 

19 ; wineberry, 265, 325, 372 
Jasmine, 200, 331 ; striking, 282 
Jasminum nudiflorum, 78, 331, 

426 ; in water, 353 
Jebb, Eglantine, 123 
Jekyll, Miss, 228; 'Wall and 

Water Gardens," 393 
Johnston, Sir Harry (quoted), 

322 
Jonquils, 172, 323 
Julienne soup, 292 
Juniper, 103 



Kales, 118-119, 292 (see also 
under Sea Kale) ; purple, 277 ; 
Sutton's variegated, 62, 116 



446 



INDEX 



Kaufimann, Angelica, 276 

K.andy, 166 

Kashmir, 167 

Kaulfussia Kermesina, 82 

Kelway, Messrs., 233 

Kentucky tree, 19 

Kew, 42, 183, 331, 354, 412; 

forced plants at, 40 ; hollies 

at, 304 ; lock garden at, 392 
King's Lynn, 269-70 
' KLingwood ' box, 36 
Kipling, Eudyard, 369 ; quoted, 

163 
' Knife of the World,' patent, 

295 
Kniphofias, 50, 375 



Labels for plants, 82-3, 325 

Laburnums, 327, 360 

Lachenalias, 420 

Ladies' Guild of West End 
Hospital, 63 

' Lady's Smock,' 74 

Landor, W. S. (quoted), 436 

La,rkspurs, 219, 281, 283, 380 

Lastra montana oreopteris, 862 

Lathrea clandestina, 389 

Latin terms in botany, 215-17 

Laurestinus, 282 

Lavatera tremestris, 421 

Lavender, 78, 325 ; in pot- 
pourri, 220 ; cotton, 14 

Lavenham Church, 273 

Laver, 428 

Lawns, 21 ; dressing for, 22 ; 
moss on, 22 

Lawson, Sir Wilfrid, 317 

Layard, Lady, 102 

' Leaves from our Tuscan 
Kitchen' (quoted), 89 

Leeks, 86, 119, 223, 384 

Leigh, Mrs., 351 

Lemoine, Messrs., 44 

Lemon, marmalade, 296 ; water, 
410 

Lemonade, 410 

Lent Hellebores, 10, 49-50, 84, 
106 ; forcing, 432 

Lentils, 27 ; recipe for, 31 

Leptosiphon, 156, 377 



Lerwick Hospital, 278 

Letch worth Garden City, 306 

' Letters to Young and Old,' 351 

Lettuce, sowing, 55, 86, 150, 
189, 291, 391 ; thinning, 182 
cabbage, 23, 41 ; salad, 86 
soup, 376 ; stewed, 260 
' Webb's Wonder,' 86 

Lighthouse keepers, 6 

Lighthouses, early, 335 

Lilacs, 78 ; for a screen, 14 ; 
pruning, 200 

Lilies, varieties of, 177-9, 376, 
403; treatment of, 178-9; 
planting, 214 ; auratum, 214 ; 
Bella Donna, 326, 414 ; day, 
376; 'Gumsey,' 415; Ma- 
donna, 40, 84, 177 ; remedy 
for disease of, 432-3 ; orange, 
177 ; Peruvian, 67 ; ' Scar- 
borough,' 415 

Lilium Hansoni, 377 

Liny, Mr., 72 

Lime tree, 304 

Limnanthes Douglasi, 140, 181, 
323, 377 

Liuaria Gilia capitata, 378 

Linaria maroccana, 377, 382 ; 
vulgaris, 394 

Linarias, 49, 82, 84, 215, 339; 
seeding, 289-90 

Linnsean system, 202 

Linnaeus, botanist, 40 

Linum narbonense, 382 

Liquid manure, 114r-15, 283 ; 
for inducing moss, 323 

Liriodendron tulipifera, 330 

Lithospermum, 103 ; purpureo- 
caeruleum, 157 

Lizards, 103 

Lobelia cardinalis, 375 ; ' Queen 
Victoria,' 375, 419-20 ; ra- 
mosa, 115 ; speciosa, 115,419; 
trailing, 23, 115, 419 

Loch, Lord, 274 

Loganberries, 372 

London, poem on, 32 ; Pride, 
14, 76, 77 

Long Melford Hall, 272 

Lonicera confusa, 167 ; Japo- 
nica, 157 ; Maackii, 328 



INDEX 



447 



Lothian Lord, 268-9 

Lotos, 169, 170 

Loudon, Mrs., 202, 427; 'British 
Wild Flowers,' 394-5 ; ' Book 
on Bulbs,' 399-400 

Lounsbury, Charles, 206-7 

' Love in a Mist,' 281, 382 

Lucerne, 99 

Lunacy, cause of, 34, 346-7 ; 
Commissioners' report on, 345 

Lunatics, 33 seq. ; forcible feed- 
ing of, 35 ; diet for, 346-7 

Lupin, blue, 140 ; early bloom 
on, 23, 112 ; tree, 377, 394 

Lupins, various, 198, 380-3 

Lutzerath, village, 249 

Lycium, 78 

Lyttelton, Alfred, 71 

Lytton, Lady Constance, 347 

Lytton, Judith, 263-4 ; ' Love 
in a Mist,' 264, 329 

Lytton, Neville, 264 



Macaboki outlets, 341 ; Italian, 

385 ; soup, 223 ; tomato, 260 
Maoaulay, Thomas (quoted) , 64-5 
Macdonald, Frederika, 353 
Maeterlinck's ' Life of the Bee ' 

(quoted), 149-50 ; ' My Dog,' 

355 
Maggi, Misses, 242 
Magnolia grandiflora, 353 
Mainz, 251 
MaUows, 214, 281 
Malope rosea, 383, 421 ; white, 

421 
Malva mosoheta alba, 77 
Mandalay, 165-6 
Manderschied, 248-9 
Manure, flies and, 129-30, 154 ; 

sheep and goat, 221. {See also 

under Liquid Manure) 
Marguerite daisy, 175, 182, 219 ; 

cuttings, 141 ; French, 399 
Marigold, African, 76, 376; 

French, 376 
Marjoram, 396 
Marliao, M. Latour, 404 ; on 

water lilies, 405-6 
Marmalade, lemon, 296 



Marriage, early 229 ; the ideal 

age for girls, 313 
Marrow-kale, 417 
Mary of Orange, 303 
Masefield, John, 36, 206 ; quoted, 

256-7 
Mattos, A. Teixeira de, 36 
Maxwell, Sir Herbert, 301 ; 

quoted, 432-3 
Majme, Miss E. C, ' Byron,' 

347-50 
Mayonnaise sauce, 160 
Mazzini's ' Duties of Man,' 205 
Meadow-sweet, 109, 228, 388 
Meconopsis Cambrica, 377 ; 

Wallichi, 170 
Medical Congress, 233-4 
Medicine gardens, 227-8 
Meles taxus, 93 
Melted cheese, 191 
' Memoirs and Memories,' 301 
Mendip Nurseries, 63 
Mentha viridis, 396 
Mercury, 218 

Mesembryanthemums, 156, 413 
Mexican orange flower 40 
Mice, trapping, 51, 107 
Michaelmas daisies, 21, 51-2, 76, 

214, 283, 302, 325; in field, 

373 ; in colour scheme, 377- 

9 ; low growing, 418 
Mignonette, 81-2, 115, 278, 375 
Migration of birds, 1-4 
Milan, 99, 103 
Miles, Eustace, 71 
Militancy, 64-6, 205 
Millais, Sir E., 124 
Mimulus, 77, 376 
Mint, varieties of, 396-7 
Missel thrushes, 186 
Mistletoe, 304 
Monarda didj^na, 375, 419 
' Monasteries, A History of the 

Dissolution of the,' 303 
Monbretias, 94, 233, 375 
Monkshood, 217 
Moore, Thomas (quoted), 2 
Morris, Sidney, 233 
Moschosma riparia, 305, 432 
Mosel, river, 249 
Moss, on lawns, 22 ; to grow, 323 



448 



INDEX 



Moths, protection against, 39 
Motor oil, poisonous to animals, 9 
Motor tour, 265 seq. 
Motor wood cutter, 299 
MuUeins, 20, 76, 77 
Muramo, 102 
Musoa domestica, 128 
Musoari conicum, 209 
Mushroom, extract in vegetarian 

cookery, 26 ; culture 159-61 
Mushrooms in cream, 429-30 
Music, pleasure in, 316 ; effects 

of, 390 
Musk, giant, 376 
Mustard and cress, 24, 384 
Myostis dissitifolia, 20 ; pelus- 

tris, 20, 82 
Myrtle, 328, 404 ; as standard, 

399 



Namtje, 238 

Naphthaline for weeds, 133 
Napoleon, books on, 60 
Narcissi, 41, 323 ; forcing, 401 
Narcissus, ' Emperor,' 209 ; 

nanus, 373 ; obvallaris, 84 ; 

Telamonius plenus, 172 
Nasturtiums, 94, 221 ; dwarf, 

375-7 
National Food Eeform Society, 

53 
National Dahlia Society, 232 
Neapolitan violets, 17 
Needles Lighthouse, 5 
Nelson, Lord, 266-7 
Nelumbium, 405 
Nemesia, 375, 377 ; in pots, 416 ; 

strumosa, 156 
Nepeta catarina, 100, 139-40, 

396-7 
Nerines, 415 
Nesting boxes, 155 
New ground, what to plant in, 

25 
New Zealand bucket, 140 
Nicandra physaloides, 183 
Niootiana affinis, 383, 399 
Nierembergia rivularis, 156 
Nigella, 382 
Nightingale, Florence, 196 



Nightingales, 154 

Norland Institution, 369 

North, Miss, 354 

Norwich, 266-8 ; Cathedral, 

266, 270 
Nut, medley, 425 ; roast, 120-1 ; 

soufae, 89 
Nutmeg tree, 166 
Nymphaeas, 404-5 

Oenothera biennis, 20 ; Fraseri, 
420 ; Macrocarpa, 420 ; speci- 
osa, 288 ; Youngii, 376 

Oil, poisonous motor, 9 ; on 
troubled waters, 96 ; jars, 108 

Oil, olive, 6 

Old Winchester Hill, 333-4 

Omelette, a simple, 152 

Omphalodes Hnifolia, 140, 382 

Onion soup, 56 

Onions, 22 ; sowing, 24, 119, 
189, 233 ; as flavouring in 
vegetarian cookery, 26 ; sup- 
posed properties of, 212 ; 
Egyptian, 291 ; Spanish, re- 
cipe for, 386 ; spring, 87 

Onosma tauricum, 288 

Orange, comp6te, 429 ; flower, 
Mexican, 40 ; peel, for trap- 
ping slugs, 63 

Oranges, first arrival of, 362 

Orchard, climbing roses in, 78 

Orchis, wild, 167, 173 

Orchises, 103 

Oreganum onites, 396 

Omithogalum nutans, 103 ; pyra- 
midale, 410 

Osier, Sir William, 195 

' Ossa,' cow, 222 

Owl, 174 

Oxalises, 218, 377 

Oxford, 373, 408; botanic 
garden, 227 

Paddock, 333, 335 
Padua, 101 

Paeonies, 46-7, 112 ; tree, 326-7 
Pagoda trees, 163 
PaU Mall Gazette, 305 ; quoted, 
5, 32, 71 



INDEX 



449 



Palms, 166 

Pancakes, savoury, 193 

Pancratium fragrantisaimum, 
415 

Panaies, 84, 357, 378-9 

Papaver piloaum, 325 

Parenta and their daughtera, 
313-14 

Paria, 104 ; Jardin dea Plantea, 
405 

Parsley, 23 ; sowing, 55 ; grow- 
ing and cooking, 434-5 

Parsnip, aowing, 55 

Parsnips al Fomo, 58 

' Paaaing of War, The,' 91 

Paths, brick, 11, 13, 20; graaa, 
51 ; gravel, 20 ; moss on, 
323; sunk, 12, 15, 289, 393 

Patrinia hispida, 376 

PauUonia, 102 

Pauper Lunatic Asylum (Dart- 
ford), 34 

Pea nuts, 28 

Pea (green), pur6e of, 259 ; 
souffle, 192 ; aoup, 190 

Pea trenches, 23-5 

Peas, planting, 87 ; sowing, 119, 
150 ; protectors for, 208 ; 
first introduction of, 212 ; 
dwarf, 25 ; in pots, 23 ; early 
and late, 24-5, 188 ; marrow 
fat, 25; pur6e of. 397; 
petit pois k I'Allemande, 260 

Peach-house, 15 

Peach trees, thinning. 111 ; ty- 
ing shoots, 186 ; summer 
pruning, 290 

Pear trees, 236 

Pearse, CM., ' Kitchen Garden 
and the Cook,' 434 

Peat moss, 87 

Pelargoniums, 375, 394, 403; 
planting, 143 ; cuttings of, 
179, 280 ; varieties of, 398 ; 
winter flowering, 431 ; 
' aorinda ' 18, 280 ; ' Pretty 
Polly," 18, 280; Prince of 
Orange, 18 
Perennials, 232 ; frame for sow- 
ing, 54 ; seed time, 282 ; 
growing from seed, 284 



Periwinkle, 77 ; Algerian, 352 
Pergola, marble, 102 ; of vines, 

359 ; against a wall, 361 
Perkin, Lionel, 400 
Pemettyas, 357 
Peruvian lilies, 67 
Petunias, 52, 80, 378, 383 
Pentstemon, 283, 406-7 ; out- 
tings, 141, 283 ; hetero- 
phyllus, 157, 413 
Phacelia campanulata, 82, 156, 

380, 382 ; oongeata, 378 
Phillyrea, 78 
Phlomis fruticosa, 412 
Phygelius capensis, 325 
Physianthus albeno, 200 
Phlox Drummondii, 377 
Phloxes, 78, 214, 219, 290 ; 
increasing. 83, 109 ; varieties 
of, 378, 382-3 ; moving, 419 
Picture palaces, influence of, 144 
Pie, tomato and onion, 296 ; 

savoury, 30 
Pigeons, 17, 174 
Pink, Indian, 81 ; Maiden, 280 ; 
Mrs. Sinkina, 105, 282 ; rock, 
81 
Pinks, seedling, 84, 104 ; out- 
tings of, 182, 282, 289 
Plans of borders, 82-3, 208-9 
Plantin. Christophe, ' Le Bon- 

heur,' 237-8 ; Muste, 237 
Platycodon, 214 
Plum, double pink, 19 ; wild, 

174; tree, 236 
Plums, recipe for sour, 226 
Poems quoted : by Anacreon, 
2 ; ' Venetian Song,' 7-8 ; 
' The Sailor's Consolation,' 
8-9; ' On London,' 32 ; 'The 
Child,' 63-4; 'Sonnet on 
Friendship,' 90 ; 'la death 
as sad as life,' 91 ; by Felicia 
Hemans, 135 ; ' Dost thou 
not know,' 158 ; ' An Answer,' 
158; 'God's Garden,' 197; 
' The Loves of the Plants,' 
202; 'Tramping,' 203; by 
John Masefield, 256-7 ; by 
Judith Lytton, 264, 329-30 ; 
by Eonsard, 267; 'What's 
2o 



450 



INDEX 



ths good of being a Mother,' 
319 ; by Robert Buma, 351 ; 
' On a Terrier,' 356 ; ' If all 
the good people were clever,' 
411 

Poinsettias, 305, 427, 434 

Polyanthus, 76, 84, 209, 357 

Polygonum baldaohuanicum, 360 

Polygonums, 139 

Poplar tree, 304 

Poor, how to help the, 52-3 ; 
seeds for the, 76 ; resignation 
of the, 85-6 

Poppies, 173 ; seeding, 290 ; 
various, 375 

Poppy, blue, 170 ; Iceland, 377 ; 
opium, 378 ; . Oriental, 374 ; 
Shirley, 375 ; white tree, 326 ; 
yellow Welsh, 377 

Portsmouth, 183 ; history of, 
362-4 ; harbour, 362 ; picture 
palace, 85 

Pot herbs, 199 ; marjoram, 396 

Pot-pourri, recipe for, 220 

Potage. (/See unde.r Soup) 

Potato souffle, 57 

Potatoes, sprouting, 22, 25-6, 
198 ; frame for early, 54 ; 
old, 55; planting, 87, 117- 
18 ; digging new, 189 ; intro- 
duction of, 212 ; digging, 289 ; 
forcing, 292 ; Empress early, 
22, 54 ; May Queen, early, 
22, 54 ; Irish recipe for 
cooking, 120 ; to preserve 
young, 391 ; fried, 296 ; a la 
Lyonnaise, 261 ; k la Maitre 
d'hfltel, 294 

Potentilla, 139, 376 

Poterium officinale, 288 

Potters' Arts Guild, 123 

Potting, soil for and method of, 
141, 151 

Press, power of the, 195 

Primroses, 20, 77, 176, 372; 
blue, 282 

Primula — acaulis, 173 ; denti- 
culata cashmeriana, 47 ; 
Japonica, 47-8, 132, 173; 
pulverulenta, 132 ; rosea, 83 

Primulas, 62, 378 ; dividing, 200 



Privet, 157, 332 

Proteid in diet, 68-9, 72 

Protinus (quoted), 164 

Prickly heath, 357 

Pruning, 111 ; summer, 290 ; 

fruit trees, 291 
Prunus Davidiana, 43 ; Pissardi, 

173 ; pseudo cerasus, 40 ; 

sisensis rosea, 19 
Psychical phenomena, 337-9 
Public-house signs, 265 
Pudding, savoury rice, 29 
Pulses, their use in diet, 27-8 
Pumpkin soup, 340 
Purple smoke tree, 19 
Purslane pur6e, 191 
Pyracanthaa coccinea, 357 
Pyrethrum — ' Fire Dragon,' 383 ; 

' Freedom,' 383 ; uliginosum, 

382 
Pyius, 332 ; Japonica, 357 



QuAEiTOH, Messrs., 394 
Quilter, Harry (quoted), 161-2 



Radclyffe-Hall, Margarita 

(quoted), 203 
Radish, sowing, 24, 65, 86, 182, 

291 ; early French, 23 
Ragwort, 94 

Railways, early days of, 365 
Raleigh, Sir Walter, 212 
Rampion, 86, 110, 188, 284; 

to grow, 390 ; to cook, 390 
Rangoon, 165 
Raspberry canes, 292 
Rats, 85 

Ravenna, 103-4, 157 
R«d cabbage, 116 ; salad, 294 
Red-hot poker, 50, 375 
Redhazel, description of, 10-16 
Reeds, 169-70 ; river, 173 
Reform Bill (1867), 64r-6 
' Regina ' sow, 354 
Rehmannia angulata, 325-6 
' Reliance ' iron stakes, 412 
Reseda odorata, 81 
Reynolds, Sir Joshua, 125 



INDEX 



451 



Bheumatiem, diet and, 70 ; 
black-ourrant leaf tea for, 
407-8 
Rhine, river, 250-1 
' Bhoda,' wolfhound, 16, 174^5, 

366 
Rhododendron fragrantissimum, 
62 ; R. Smithii aureum, 331 
Rhubarb, 212, 226 ; forcing, 9, 

23 ; winter, 351 
Rhubarb-bed, manuring, 23 
Rhus atropurpurea, 19 
Rhynohospermum jasminoides, 

62 
Ribes sanguineum, 40, 62 ; in- 
creasing, 109 
Rice — k la Mexioaine, 385 ; alia 

Romana, 152 ; cones, 385 
Rice and Celeriac, braised, 30 ; 
and celery soup, 88 ; and 
herbs, 386 
Rice Milanaise, 153 ; salad, 293 ; 
savoury, 424 ; seasoned, 56 ; 
timbale of, 343 ; Risi PiseUi, 
191 ; Risotto alia Milanese, 261 
Rimini, 104 

Rio, M. de, ' L'Art Italifen,' 102 
Road grit, 106 
Roads, fruit-trees for, 236 
Robinia hiepida, 330 
Robinson, William, 331, 395, 
417 ; ' Flora and Sylva," 
180, 330 ; ' Enghah Flower 
Garden,' 263, 405, 412, 413 
Rock cress, 378 

Rook gardens, 13, 110, 139 ; in 
Kashmir, 169 ; how to make, 
392-5 ; books on, 393 ; plants 
for, 48, 50, 77, 110, 113, 131, 
139, 180, 210, 213, 285, 357, 
389, 394, 409, 414 ; at Barr's, 
133 ; overgrowth of, 336 
Bock — pinks, 79, 81 ; roses, 103 
Rockery, 284 

Rocket, double sweet, 48, 82, 220 
Roman remains, 334^-5 
Romneya coulteri, 326 
Rousard (quoted), 267 
Rose — acacia, 173, 330 ; beds, 
clay for, 414 ; leaves for pot- 
pourri, 220 



Rosea, cuttings of, 283-4 ; 
transplanting, 287 ; autumn 
pruning of, 114, 177, 352; 
old varieties of, 364 ; ' Alester 
Stella Grey,' 281 ; Ayrshire, 
78; briar, 78; bush, 188; 
Christmas, 49-50, 84, 106; 
climbing, 78, 132, 289 ; ' Frau 
Karl Druschki,' 373 ; guelder, 
78 ; ' Madame Alfred Caro- 
li^rij' 281 ; Mar^chal Niel, 
290 ; monthly, 188 ; nephetoa, 
426 ; ' Reine Olga de Wur- 
temberg,' 414 ; tea, 106 ; 
wild, 169 ; York and Lan- 
caster, 157, 364 ; ' Zephyrine 
Drouhin,' 414 

Rosemary, 77, 325 

Ross, Edward H., ' The Reduc- 
tion of the Domestic Flies,' 
127-30 

Ross, Mrs, ' Memoirs,' 7 

Boss's (Mrs.) olive oil, 6 

Rossetti, Christina (quoted) , 90 

Rossetti, D. G., 124 

Rotterdam, 252 

Royal Bethlehem Hospital, 33-5 

Royal Horticultural Society, 232 

Royal Society for the Protection 
of Birds, 155, 433-4 

Rubus phoenicolasius, 265 ; 
rosaefoHiis, 416 

Budbekia laciniata, 376 ; New- 
mani, 376 

Rudesheim, 250-1 

Bumex, 396 

Rush lights, 229 

Buskin, John, 124, 126; 'Life 
of,' 125 ; quoted, 427 

Russell, Lord John (quoted), 126 

Ryder & Son, Messrs., 80, 421 

St. Cross, Hospital of, 184^5,211 
St. Swithin, 185 
Saffron, 370 

Sage, 396 ; Jerusalem, 412 
' Sailor's Consolation, The,' 8-9 
Salad, rice, 293 ; red cabbage, 
294 ; beetroot and rampion, 
390 ; young lettuce, 391 ; 
winter, 428 



452 



INDEX 



Salad sauce, 294 

Salix — Japonica, 19 ; vitellina, 

327 ; fragUia, 327 
' Sallie ' goat, 222 
Salpiglottis, 142, 376 
Salsify, 119 ; fritters, 341 ; 
scallops, 424 ; recipes for, 
430 
Salvation Army, 346 ; and vege- 
tarianism, 71 
Salvias, 302, 375, 381 ; bracteata 
rosea, 217 ; patens, 381, 419 ; 
officinales, 396 ; vergata, 419 

Sandgate, 94 ; Castle, 95 

Sandringham, 271 

Santolina, 78 

Sanvitalia, Platystemon, 377 

Satureia montana, 396 

Sauce, brown roux, 225 ; Becha- 
mel, 120; Espaguole, 192; 
salad, 294 

Saucepans of fireproof pottery, 
27 

Savoury — Yorkshire pudding, 
153 ; pancakes, 193 ; toma- 
toes, 295 ; beetroot, 295 ; rice, 
424 ; pudding, ,424 ; creams, 
425. 

Saxifrages, 14, 50, 169, 336 

Scabiosa lutea, 376 

Scabious, 278, 378, 383 ; autumn 
sown, 421 

Scarlet runners, 198 ; to cook, 
403 

Scent, of flowers, 81 ; taste in, 
220 

Schizanthus, 416 

Soillas, 41, 77, 209, 323 

Scotch fir seedling, 113 

Sea buckthorn, male and female, 
94-5 

Sea-holly, 78 ; varieties of, 381 

Sea-kale, 94, 375 ; to increase, 
10 ; pit for early, 24 ; in 
flower, 188 

Sea-kale beet, 145, 151, 223; 
curry of, 342 

Sedum spectabile, 214, 418 

Sedums, 14 ; in walls, 79, 94 ; 
acre, 414 

Seedlings, self-sown, 188 



Seeds, bottom heat for, 22 ; 

boxes for small, 51 ; purchase 

of, 199 ; sowing in summer, 

207-8 

Self-control, 366-8 

Senecio Clovarum, 183 ; pulcher 

287 
Service tree, 19 
Sex in plants, 95 
Shakespeare, William, 228, 271 
Shakespeare, Susannah, 228 
Shallots, 55 ; planting, 87 
Shelley, P. B. (quoted), 204; 
Lady, ' Memoirs ' (quoted), 
266-7 
' Shepherd's Crown,' fossil, 333 
Shetland Collie. (See under 

' Archies ') 
Shetland, 277 seq. 
Shoesmith, Mr., 232 
Shortia galacifolia, 414 
Shrubs, planting, 42 ; flowering, 
43, 62 ; foxgloves under, 77 ; 
growing and pruning of, 200, 
422, 427 ; growth of, 221 ; in 
chicken yard, 373 
Sibthorpia Europaea variegata, 

414 
Silene, 209 

Sleeplessness, remedy for, 137-8 \ 
Slugs, 86, 105 ; traps for, 63, 84, 
107, 118 ; orange peel for, 
144 ; cabbage leaves for, 186, 
189, 214 
Small fruit, mixed dish of, 226 
Smith, Mr., of Newry, 399, 433 
Snake bites, 94 
' Snakes Head,' 373, 408 
Snapdragons, 106 ; cuttings of, 
283 ; tall, 421 ; giant, 139. 
143. (See also under Antir- 
rhinums), 
' Snow in Summer,' 14 
Snowdrops, 77, 210, 372, 402 
Soil, management of heavy, 55, 

66, 175, 280 
Solanums, crispum, 200, 329 ; 
jasminoides, 200, 329 ; climb- 
ing, 329 
Solidago, ' Golden Wings,' 302 
Sorbus domestica, 19 



INDEX 



453 



Sorrel, 173, 396 
Soupa, artichoke, 29, 87 

beetroot, 257 

brazil nut, 151 

brown, 28-9 

brown haricot, 293 

carrot, 119 

chestnut, 423-4 

cream of barley, 28 

or^me duchesse, 411 

cucumber, 257 

cucumber cream, 189 

Edward's desiccated, 224 

green pea, 190 ; to colour, 
391 

herbs, 395-6 

Italian, 384, 423 

Julienne, 292 

lentil, 422-3 

lettuce, 396 

macaroni, 223] 

onion i, la bourgeoise, 56 

potage Parmentier, 384 

potage Bomain, 340 

potage saison, 119 

potato, 423 

pumpkin, 340 

rice and celery, 88 

rich gravy, 151 

Spring, 190 

sugar com, 119 

tomato, 224 

vegetable, 56 

vegetable mulligatawny, 
55-6 

vegetarian, 242, 258, 403 

whit« maigre, 88 

white soubise, 151 
Southampton, 334 
Spanish pictures, 300-1 
Sparrows, 154 
Spartium junceum, 78, 420 
Spectator (quoted), 136 
Spinach, round -leaved, 23, 86, 
150 ; in branch, 152 ; sowing, 
189 
Spinach beet, sowing, 55 ; cut- 
ting down, 189 ; Italian, 258 ; 
souffle, 224 
Spinach, winter (New Zealand), 
391, 416 ; to cook, 416-17 



Spiraea, prunifolia, 40 ; Japo- 
nica, 62 ; ' Italian May,' 102 ; 
Lindleyana, 228 ; shrubby 

- varieties, 387-8, 407 

Spiritualism, 337-9 

Spurge, Italian, 103 ; large, 412 

Srinagar, 167-70 

Staohys lanata, 77, 176 j grandi- 
flora robusta, 183 

Stapeha hirsuta, 39 

Steele & Marsh, chemists, 262 

Stembergia lutea, 325 

Stevenson, B. L. (quoted), 158 

Stocks, 80; Virginian, 50, 84; 
140 ; night-scented, 81 ; seed 
ling, 142 ; sowing 188 
planting 214 ; Brompton, 
283; Yellow ten-week. 377 
white, 383 

Stoke CoUege, 273-4 

Stokesia cyanea, 288 

Stratford-on-Avon, 227 seq. 

Strawberries, 188-9 ; potting, 
291 ; French, 292 ; Sutton's 
large red Alpine, 407 ; Louii 
Gaultier, 407 ; Indian, 416 

Strawberry-raspberry, 416 

Sudbury, 272 

Suffolk, Duke of, 275 

Suffragettes, 64^6, 163, 205 

Sugar, former price of, 212 

Sugar-corn soup, 119 ; maple, 19 

Sunflowers, as a screen, 14 
single pereimial, 290 

Sunk paths, 12, 15, 289 
barrels, 258 ; tank, 403 

Supports for plants, 214, 221, 282; 
' Reliance ' iron stakes, 412 

Surbiton, 361 

Sutton, Messrs., 401, 413, 416, 
420; seeds, 263; hardy 
perennials, 380 

Swallows, habits of, 2-3 

Swan river daisy, 381 

Sweet, a useful, 410 

Sweet herbs, 199 

Sweet peas, 76, 280 ; in pots, 
21, 50, 433; trenches 21 
sowing 50 ; scent of, 198 
necessity for picking, 283 
in colour scheme, 375-82 



454 



INDEX 



Sweet Alyssum. (See under 

Alyasum) 
Sweet pepper bush, 74 
Sweet rockets, 48, 82, 323; 

purple, 377 i 
Sweet scabious. (5ee under 

Scabious) 
Sweet sultans, 81 
Sweet Williams, 81, 108, 323; 

crimson, 383 
Sycamore, purple, 19 
Symonds, J. A. (quoted), 7-8 ; 
Symonds, Mrs. J. A., 354 



Taobtbs, 377 

Tamarisk, 78, 94, 101 

Tamarix — gallica, 19 ; chinensis, 

78 
Tank in garden, 403 
Tarragon, 396 
Taired roads, 9 
Taylor, Mr., 155 
Tea, as cause of lunacy, 34, 

346-7 
Teeth, importance of good, 234 
Teuorium fruticosum, 158-9 
Thalictrum dipterocarpum, 74, 

285 
Thatching, 186 
Thompson & Morgan, 201, 421 ; 

for uncommon seeds, 389 
Thorn, hedges, 236 ; tree, 304 
Thom-cockspur, 19 
Thornton, R. J. ' Picturesque 

Botany,' 40, 202 
Thrift, in walls, 79; wild, 

277 
Thyme, 183, 396 ; in pot-pourri, 

220 ; lemon, 396 
Thymus — purpurea, 157 ; vul- 
garis, 396 ; citriodorus, 396 
Timbale of rice, 343 
Times, The, 194, 204, 233; 

quoted, 232, 322, 344 
Toad-flax, 79, 394; 
Toads, song of the, 161 
Tobacco plant, 198, 383, 399 
Tomato — macaroni, 260 ; sauce, 

to keep, 343 ; soup, 224 ; 

and onion pie, 296 



Tomatoes, sowing, 23, 24 ; 
planting, 143 ; cutting back, 
223 ; for soup, 224 ; savoury, 
295 

Tradescant, the younger, 228 

Tragopogon porrifolium, 430 

' Traveller's Joy,' 332 

Trees, growing of, 422, 427-8 

Treves, 245-6 

Trevethick, Mr., 365 

Tritomas, 375, 377 ; crooata, 402 

Trollius, 377 

Tropaelum speciosum, 48, 215, 
357 

Truth, the search for, 231 

Tubergen, Van, 213 

TuHps, 41, 132, 166, 323; at 
Barr's, 133 ; removing seed 
pods, 140 ; May flowering, 
209 ; in mass 210 ; planting, 
324 ; in pots 400-1 ; early 
402 ; Kreijor Kroon, 210 ; 
Toumesol, 210 

Tulip-tree, 330 

Turin, 104 

Turkeys, 198 

Turner, Mr., 232 

Turnips, forcing early, '23 
sowing, 55, 118, 119, 150, 189 
artificial manure for, 189 
introduced by Cromwell, 212 

Tuileries, Palace of the, 281 

Tussilago fragrans, 352 



UEic-acid-diet, 69 
Uvedale, Nicholas, 213 



VACCDflFOLnjM, 139 
Valerian, 323 

Van Dyke, drawing by, 274-5 
Vegetable curry, 342 
Vegetable League, 53 
Vegetable marrows, 150 ; h, I'Es- 

pagnole, 259 ; cakes, 225 ; 

stuffed, 293-4 ; purte of, 258 ; 

picked young, 408 
Vegetable oyster, 430 
Vegetable ragout, 57 



INDEX 



455 



Vegetarian cookery, flavourings 
in, 26 ; fireproof crockery 
for, 27 ; salt in, 28 ; what to 
avoid for various complaints, 
28 ; cleanliness of, 264 

Vegetarian diet, 68 ; our intes- 
tines meant for, 168 

Vegetarian gravy, 57 ; soup, 242, 
258 

' Vegetarian Messenger,' 71 

Vegetarians and doctors, 143, 
252 

Veitch, Messrs., 305, 327-8, 
400-1,413 ; Coombe Nurseries, 
331 ; at Chelsea, 332 ; their 
wistarias, 360 

Velasquez, 301 

Venetian song, 7-8 

Venice, 101-3, 359 

Venidium, 377 

Verbascum — phlomoides, 20 ; 
longifolium, 76 ; planting out, 
218 

Verbena, 404 ; in pot-pourri, 
220; scarlet, 375; 'May 
flower,' 383 ; as standard, 399 

Vermicelli croquettes, 190 

Verona, 100-1 

Veronica, cuttings, 141 ; in 
pots, 399 ; varieties of, 263, 
408-9 ; ' Autumn Glory,' 247 

Vianden Castle, 244 

Vicenza, 101 

Victoria, Queen, statue of, 184 

Victory, H.M.S., 362 

Village plays, 20-1 

Vilmorin (quoted), 220 ; ' Vege- 
table Book,' 417 

Vinca acutiloba, 352 

Vines, pergolas of, 102, 359 ; 
pruning 143, 181 ; pig's blood 
for, 358 ; varieties of, 359-60 

Vineyards, Hampshire, 334 

Violas, 209, 214H5, 284, 403; 
gracilis, 74 ; cuttings of, 8, 
283 ; in colour scheme, 376- 
382 

Violets, 112; planting runners, 
324, ; Neapolitan, 17 

Violet cress, 112-13 

Viper's bugloss, 93 



Viscaria oaerulea, 81, 378 
Votes for women, 64r-6, 205 

Wales, daffodil as emblem for, 

59-60 
Wall gardens, 14, 393 ; plants for, 

200, 371, 414 ; how to grow. 

79, 94 
Wallace, Robert, K.C. (quoted), 

344 
Wallace, Messrs., 233 
Wallace's (Mrs.) cofEee, 70 
Wallflowers, 45-6, 140, 143, 323 ; 

in walls, 79 ; in Kashmir, 

169 ; sowing, 188 ; in beds, 209, 

283; soil for 220; Alpine, 84; 

double, 389 
Walnut meal, 89 ; pie, 152 ; 

tree, 114 
Walpole, Horace (quoted), 116 
Waltham, Bishop's Palace, 211- 

13 
War, 91-2 
Warwick Castle, 232 
Wasps attacking bees, 323 ; 

queen, 174 
Water forget-me-not, 20, 82 
Water gardens, 393, 404 
Water lilies, 15, 131, 404 ; cut, 

405 ; M. Marliac on, 405-6 
Water-mint, 109 
Water, to keep flowers in, 332- 

3, 352 
Watering plants, 175 
Watson, W. ' Cactus Culture,' 406 
Watts G. F., 124^5; quoted, 

126-7 
Watte, Mrs., 122; her pottery, 

13, 398 ; her gallery, 122 eeq. ; 

'The Word in the Pattern,' 

123 ; biography of her hus. 

band, 124-7, 268-9 
Weather, 115-116 
Webb, Messrs., 86 
Weeds, in new ground, 25 ; 

naphthaline for, 133 
Weeding, important time for, 133 
West End Hospital, Ladies' 

Guild of, 53 
Westminster Gazette (quoted), 

59-60, 63-4 



456 



INDEX 



Wheat, grown on moss, 426 

White, Gilbert, 2-4 

Wild flowers, 93, 202, 394; 

shows of, 173 
Wild garden, how to plant, 

176, 180 
' Wild Life ' magazine, 155 
Wilkins, Mary, ' Understudies,' 

354-5 
Willow herb, French, 393 
Willows, 327 ; parasite on, 389 
Winchester, 183-5, 211-13 ; HUl, 

333-4; gaol, 365; See of, 335 
Wind flower, scarlet, 402 
Wind, a growing shelter from, 

277 
Windy situations, plant for, 78 
Windsor Castle, 213 
Winter greens, 87, 150 ; savoury, 

396 
Wintergreen, oil of, 263 
Wisley, 42, 107, 175, 337, 370, 

422 ; rook plants at, 1 39 ; 

hydrangeas at, 268 ; rock 

garden, 392-3 
Wistarias 102, 173, 360-1 
Witch hazel, 331 



Woad, 140, 290, 323, 376 - 
Wolf hound. (See under ' Ehoda ') 
Wolsey, Cardinal, 271 
Women suffrage, 64r-6, 205 
Women, careers for, 310 seq. ; 

and games, 317 ; veracity 

of, 318 
Woodlands, 237, 326, 329, 356 ; 

cheese fritters, 89 
Woodlice, 214, 219 
Woodrufi, 77 
Worms in the grave, mythical, 

39 
Worthing, 319 
Wykeham, William of, 213 
Wykeham's College, 185 

Yew trees, 157, 303, 332; 

poisonous to animals, 45 
Yorkshire pudding savoury, 153 
Young, Arthur (quoted), 255 ; 
Young, Fiison (quoted), 5-6, 71, 

304-5 
Yuccas, 201 

ZlNNBAS, 375-6 



THE END 



PBINTED BT 

SPOTTIBWOODE AND CO. LTD., OOIjOHESTEB 

LONDON AND ETON 






I 



Hi 



,11111111 



;!|l!lll!!lil!!illll!| 









il i I! : .. 



:i!i Hi 






,liiilllii;!lliiil!l! 



iliiii, ! 






Ill I 



ItJHuJJiltlH 



